[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Fiction | Title: New]
[New Serial "The New Day" to Begin in October]

A completely revised edition of the "Combination Reference" by Eldin Ricks is included to direct readers to all four standard works on major gospel subjects and to heip them prepare sermons on scriptural texts. 'Twelve Bible maps are included, which show in vivid color the kingdoms of the Old Testament and the journeys of Jesus and the apostles. A special section for keeping family genealogical records and distinctive Latter-day Saint events is included. 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1959 The Old and New Testaments are being illustrated by art masterpieces by courtesy of art museums throughout the world. A special section will present all of the Presidents of the Church, reproduced in full color from portraits that hang in the Los Angeles 'Temple. Coupled with these will be tributes by authors who speak from life-long personal acquaintance. Another section will show all of the Latter-day Saint temples in full color, and the dates when ordinances were first performed. 'The dramatic history of Mormonism will be depicted on a "wide screen" fold-out reproduction of the Cody Mural. The pages of The Book of Mormon will contain the famous Friberg illustrations of characters and episodes in 'he Book of Mormon. The cover will be made of top grain cowhide in deep blue. Against this background will appear a golden likeness of the Angel Moroni, reproduced from an original oil painting by Goff Dowding, and the title, embossed in twenty-four carat gold, will read: HOLY SCRIPTURES OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTERDAY SAINTS. Books will be made available through personal representatives assigned to various geographic regions of the Church. This beautifully illustrated edition will be of particular value to mothers in the home who wish to teach their children to know and love the scriptures and to learn the words of the Lord as given in the sacred records. Sad But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works (II 'Timothy 3:14-17). ——iP—eSummer Vas Soo Briof Mabel Law Atkinson The summer, waltzing in with hollyhocks, Held sprays of long-stemmed lilies in her arms. Their fragrance bade the dozing four-o'clocks Lift high their heads to greet her lambent charms. She ran with golden sandals through the fields That bronzed to harvest glory at her touch. (How gentle is the scepter summer wields!) All lavishly she filled the emptied hutch; Then quietly beside the slowing stream She built an altar fire and bowed her head. I closed my eyes a little while to dream, And unawares all noiselessly she fled. I could not call her back, then in my grief, I wept because her stay had been too brief. Fresh Up WVith Sunday Be Honest with Yourself N the swift passing of our busy days, and in the multiplicity of our activities and our problems, we are much in need of quiet contemplation — in need of the sacred hours of the Sabbath day. We need to learn to know ourselves — our shortcomings, our blessings, our heritage, our ideals, and our ultimate destiny as sons and daughters of God. In this treasured segment of eternity, our earth life, we need the serenity of thoughtfulness regarding the purposes of our Heavenly Father, his requirements of us, and his promised blessings. We need to ponder the commandments of God as they have been given in the holy scriptures in ancient days and restored for later generations. Many great and __ significant thoughts that affect our lives eternally come to us in the stillness of the Sabbath, and we are led to acknowledge our inmost thoughts, our hopes, our prayers, our problems. Perhaps with the psalmist, we may be led to say: "O ye sons of men how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing?... But know that the Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself: The Lord will hear when I call unto him commune with your own heart.... Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the Lord" (Psalm 4:2-5). Strength and rejoicing come to us when we meet with friends and neighbors, our families and loved ones, within the chapel walls and partake of the sacrament together. Words of instruction, commandments, and uplifting inspiration come to us, and we are comforted by communion and by worship with others of our faith who have accepted the gospel with rejoicing and who are trying to observe the re quirements of spiritual participation. The hymns come to us with a dedicated, recurrent message and we think of others in many lands who meet together, even as we assemble, who meet together, remembering the Sabbath day and the commandments for its observance which are made clear to us through the testi. Mony of our hearts — a_ testi mony which grows and flowers as we accept and honor our own steadfast inclinations for spiritual sustenance. "So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high." BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 599 Recipes From the lTlorth Central States TTlission Submitted by Diana F. Child HAMBURGERS Witt BARBECUE SAUCE 1% Ib. Hamburger 4% ¢. Dry bread crumbs 1% tsp. Salt "% c. Evaporated milk ¥s tsp. Pepper 3 tbsp. Chopped onion Combine all ingredients. Mix well. Form patties, using one fourth cup mixture for each patty. Brown in hot fat in skillet; pour barbecue sauce over or sct into barbecue sauce; simmer for thirty to sixty minutes. Serve in buns with one teaspoon sauce on cach. Makes twelve patties. BARBECUE SAUCE 3 tbsp. Vinegar 6 tbsp. Chopped onion 1 c. Catsup 1 bay leaf "2 ¢. Water 7 tsp. Dry mustard 2 tbsp. Sugar Combine all ingredients in saucepan and simmer gently for five minutes. Remove bay leaf. Pour over hamburgers and simmer thirty to sixty minutes. Serve. OraANGE ROLLS % c. Lukewarm water 4 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Sugar % c. Scalded milk 2 yeast cakes 2 well-beaten eggs 4 tbsp. Shortening 3 c. Flour 1 tsp. Salt Dissolve yeast cakes and teaspoon of sugar in water. Add shortening, remaining sugar, and milk. Let cool, add eggs. Let mixture stand fifteen minutes. Add flour and salt, and mix with spoon. Let rise one and one-half hours. Mix down and mold. Cut dough in half. Roll out and spread with paste. Cut as cinnamon rolls and let rise in muffin tins. Bake twenty minutes in 375° oven. Makes twenty-four rolls. Paste for Orange Rolls Grated rind of 1 orange 3 tbsp. Soft butter % c. Sugar FATTIGMAND 6 egg yolks 3 c. Flour 4 tbsp. Sugar 6 tbsp. Sweet cream 7 tsp. Salt % tsp. Cardamom 1 tsp. Melted butter Beat yolks well; add sugar and mix well. Add remaining ingredients. Roll thin, cut in diamond shapes and fry in deep fat at 375° for two or three minutes until golden brown. Dust with powdered sugar. Page 600 RECIPES FROM THE NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION 601 Grounp Raisin CookKlkEs 1 c. Shortcning 2 tsp. Soda 2% c¢. Sugar 2 tsp. Salt 3 beaten eggs 72 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Sour milk or buttermilk 1 tsp. Nutineg 5 c. Sifted flour 2 Ibs. Raisins (washed, drained, and 1 tsp. Cloves ground) 3 tsp. Cinnamon Cream shortening; add sugar and cream well. Add eggs and mix well. Add sour milk (or buttermilk) alternately with dry ingredients. Add raisins. Drop by teaspoonful on greased baking shect. Bake in 350° oven for twelve to thirtcen nunutes. Remove to rack and store in jar when cooled. RainBpow SALAD Bottom Layer: Dissolve one package Icmon jello as directed on package. Add two tablespoons crushed pineapple. (Use pincapple juice as part of liquid in tlic jello.) Middle Layer: Dissolve one package lemon jello as directed on package. Add two tablespoons salad dressing, one small package cream cheese. Top Layer: Dissolve two packages strawberry jello as directed on package. When cool add two packages frozcn strawberrics. Let first layer sct; then add second; then third. Fruit Dressinc (May be used on any fruit salad) 1 c. Powdered sugar (well packed) 1 c. Cooking oil 7 tsp. Salt juice and rind of 1 lemon and orange 72 tsp. Mustard i) Mix dry ingredicnts. Then add oil and juice altcrnatcly, beginning and ending with oil. Oren Fresy S1RAWBERRY PIE Pastry: 1 c. Flour 7 tsp. Salt 7, ¢. Shortening 1 tbsp. Cold water Blend ingredicnts. Roll out and bake in 425° oven for fiftecn minutcs. Pilling: 1 c. Crushed fresh strawberries 1 tbsp. Cornstarch c. Sugar Boil ingredients. Lay whole fresh strawberries in pie shell to cover bottom. Pour over them the hot berry syrup. Chill. Serve with whipped cream or icc cream. Mother's Late Day Elizabeth C. McCriminon 66 ERE are red carnations, Mother. I know you like them better than white ones." Helen blew in, looking like a May day herself in her spring outfit. Her mother smiled appreciatively. Red carnations were her favorite "There are lilacs in the garden for a young mother," she told her daughter. "Only I'm afraid you will have to pick them yourself." 'The older woman was lame. "Put the flowers in the white vase, not the blue." "T met Professor Stearns," her daughter said as she arranged the blooms, "and he asked me if there is a possibility you would rent your upstairs to him and his wife. He is retiring; they have sold their house." "I never thought of doing that," replied Mrs. Hughes slowly. "Of course I don't use the upper story since I sprained my ankle." She hobbled around with a cance. "T wonder what your father would have said if he had seen our big four-poster bed set up in the dining room where we used to give state dinners?" she exclaimed. "You won't come and live with any of us," urged Helen. "It might be a solution. We worry about you in this big house alone." Grandma visited back and forth among the younger gencration, but never for long. She dearly loved her grandchildren, but found she had to conform to the ways of the different households. Nor did she wish to impose her ideas on the new generation. Iivery age brought its own problems, she found. She also liked to keep the old homestead functioning so they could come to sce her. It was her tower and her refuge. "As long as I can manage [ like to be independent. Besides, I like to keep up the place in memory of your father."