[Vol46 | September 1959 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Rocking-Chair | Author: Nagl]
Rocking-Cha ur oLand Vernessa M. Nagle OCKING-CHAIR Land is not far away. It is just bevond the last tall lamppost. It is as wide as the imagination, as long as memory, as high as desire, and as lasting as faith. Borne on magic carpet or skimming high mountain tops in seven-league boots, the young-in-heart soon reach the fairy city. To the magic words of "Open Sesame," the city gates fling wide. Mage Merlin bows low to welcome young travelers. There in the mornmg mist is Camelot. 'The faultless king and the phantom knights mount fiery steeds and set off to might ancient wrongs. Miinarets of age-old mosques gleam in the golden sunrise as realistically as the sunny waterfronts of Singapore. Here Orpheus charms the very trees and stones with the magic of lus lyre. 'The Blucbird nestles low so that even little boys and girls can touch tenderly the tiny form. Magic swords, wishing cups, and the purse of Fortunatus are here. White mice become prancing horses, and a pumpkin the coach of a beautiful princess. Here are Peter Pan, Wendy, and Titania, Oberon's fairy queen. Rosalind is writing love notes to Orlando, and Alice has reached the eighth square in Wonderland to become a beautiful queen. Bordering the mystic city are rolling seas and gleaming wharves. Great dragon ships ply the ocean, and the graceful g galleys toss free on surging tides. Beyond lie the Islands of Spices. It has been an exciting journey to Rocking-Chair Land, but now eyelids are heavy and the sandman whispers soft lullabies. 'There is time only for a breathtaking pause on the soft, warm sands of Egypt's ancient Nile, a fleeting glance at tiny remote Mongohian villages nestled on the edge of a meadowland watered by streams from distant blue mountains. The ITanging Gardens of Babylon demand a quick glanee as the twilight deepens. Soon the romantic journey to the land of make-believe must end. 'Timy_ heads droop drowsily, and little bodies snuggle tight in the security of loving arms. ROCKING-CHAIR LAND Mrs. Vivian Grover Beddes and her children, Ieft to right: Bonnie, Sally, and Connie Page 605 Bulbs for Winter Blooming Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor The Relief Society Magazinc winter, when the autumn flowers are gone, and months before the first springtime buds will appear in the outdoor garden, there is need for the color and fragrance of indoor blossoms. If plans are made during the autumn days, the deep winter in the home can be made beautiful with flowering bulbs. They will bring delight to the housewife, joy to the children, and they will be a comfort to the aged and those who may be homebound. The thoughtful woman may wish _ to carry gifts of blossoms to her neighbors and may find bulbs suitable for taking to Relief Society meetings and luncheons. 'The bright and fragrant gift of a pot of flowering bulbs makes an appropniate birthday remembrance or a "flowerthought" for a wedding anniversary. [) winter, the darkest days of Time for Planting Bulbs may be planted as soon as they are available in autumn. Bulbs of various kinds begin to arrive in the garden stores during September, or they may be ordered from the catalogues. It usually takes at least three months from the date of planting for the blossoms to open. However, this period of time is influenced by many factors — including variety, size, and quality of the bulbs; type of growing medium used; type of container; depth of planting; temperature and degree of light in the place of storage; frequency of watering; and other considerations. If one wishes to have bulbs in bloom for Christmas, it ls wise to plant them before the fifPage 606 teenth of September, and bulbs planted later than the middle of November might not be in bloom before the time of competition with the early outdoor flowers. Bulbs Which May Be Forced for Winter Blooming Some experienced indoor gardeners declare that any bulb which will bloom outdoors will also bloom indoors, if given suitable treatment. This might be practical, if one could be sure of the "suitable" treatment. Many gardeners love to experiment, and this, to be sure, is one of the joys of gardening — both indoors and outdoors. However, the following bulbs may be regarded as "standbys" for the indoor gardener. Many varieties of the bulbs listed are suitable for indoor cultivation, but only a few of the most common varieties are mentioned. Hyacinths L'Innocence (pure white) City of Haarlem (yellow) Pink Pearl (soft pink) Ostara (deep blue) Myosotis (light blue) La Victoire (carmine-red ) Narcissi Paper Whites Soleil d'Or (yellow) Tulips Scarlet Leader La Tulipe Noire (dark purple) Mamas (canary yellow) Red Emperor Mt.