[Vol54 | January 1967 | Page 4 | Special Feature | The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom Harold | B. Lee]
Now that's how we get assignments from Sister Spaf- The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom ford. I thought you would be interested to know. I want to say to you that those of us who work closely with Sister Spafford and these counselors in welfare work, for more than thirty years as a matter of fact; Beehive Clothing Mills with the intricacies and the problems which you all know are tremendous as you meet the problems out in your wards and stakes; with the Correlation Committee; and the Advisory Board, which includes the heads of all auxiliaries and the Priesthood; and now as Adviser to Relief Society; and besides having the opportunity to have traversed some of the territory where President Spafford has gone and meeting women of renown from all countries, I want to say to you with all sincerity and with no attempt to "gild the lily," that I think we have had few women among us who have attained the worldwide stature and is so recognized as a power for good among the women of the earth as we have today in Sister Belle S. Spafford. If you knew what I know you'd know that I wasn't overshooting the mark by that statement. I have been asked to speak on a particular subject, broad enough, I'm sure, that a series of talks would not be sufficient to exhaust the _possibilities— "The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom." So I shall narrow what I say about this subject under four different headings, and then make a few conclusions so that, if you care to, you can bring it all together and add to it as many others as you wish. The Lord declares what his work and glory is. To Moses, he said, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). Since that profound declaration of Mother Eve in the Garden of Eden after the Fall, the exalted place of women in the plan of salvation was clearly defined. These words that I will quote to you now are said by students of the scriptures to be the greatest short sermon ever delivered, delivered by a woman. Now note what she says:. Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient (Moses 5:11). Lehi explains and amplifies what Mother Eve said, when, apparently, his son Jacob asked for an explanation of the Fall and why evil was permitted in the world. Lehi made this explanation: And now, behold, if Adam had not transgressed he would not have fallen, but he would have remained in the garden of Eden. And all things which were created must have remained in the same state in which they were after they were created; and they must have remained forever, and had no end. And they would have had no children; wherefore they would have remained in a state of innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery; doing no good, for they knew no sin. But behold, all things have been done in the wisdom of him who knoweth all things. Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy (2 Nephi 2:22-25). January 1967 If immortality, then, is the first step in the achievement of the Lord's work and his glory, it is readily to be understood that the process by which immortality is achieved is through the bearing of mortal offspring by mortal mothers in holy wedlock and sired by mortal fathers. Woman's role in God's eternal plan of salvation has here, then, been reaffirmed. Will you think of this, in this day of mass hysteria over birth control by artificial means? It might be well for Relief Society mothers to consider the role of woman in the great plan of salvation as the Lord has explained it. The woman's role involves a partnership, hopefully with a noble son of God. It was the apostle Paul who declared this interdependence between men and women to be achieved only in holy wedlock. Here are a few of his quotations: 'Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God" (I Cor. 11: 11-12). "... But the woman is the glory of the man" (I Cor. 11: 7). "Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it.... So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself" (Eph. 5:25, 28). "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh" (Matt. 19:5). The sacred nature of this partnership is nowhere better explained than by our own Pres- 6 ident David O. McKay, and is now quoted in our 1966 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, if you want to check this when you get home, page 63. This is what we're teaching your husbands in their weekly Priesthood meetings. I read this to my wife and she commented, "But why don't you teach this to the Priesthood rather than to the sisters?" Well, we want the sisters to know what their husbands are being taught, and if their husbands are not going to Priesthood meeting, they will see that they get there to hear these lessons taught in Priesthood meeting. Now this is what the President said, and you can understand what my wife meant: "Love is the highest attribute of the human soul, and fidelity is love's noblest offspring." Most, if not all, of the virtues are the natural fruit of genuine love. President McKay has given inspired counsel regarding the physical dimension of the love relationship between a man and his wife. He said: "Let us instruct young people who come to us to know that a woman should be queen of her own body.... "Second, let them remember that gentleness and consideration after the ceremony are just as appropriate and necessary and beautiful as gentleness and consideration before the wedding. "_.. Chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood, and self-control is the source of true manhood, if you will know it, not indulgence.... "Let us teach our young men to enter into matrimony with the idea that each will be just as courteous and considerate of a wife after the ceremony as during courtship" (Melchidezek Priesthood Manual 1966, page 63). Now you have companion lessons to these in the Relief So- The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom ciety, don't you see? And you, having been schooled in the Relief Society, your husbands receiving this kind of a lesson in the Priesthood, the meeting of the two lessons~brings an ideal Home Evening lesson, where father and mother, with their growing-up sons and daughters, are taught these fundamental principles. The curse of infidelity is plainly set forth also by President McKay in this same Priesthood manual that I'm talking about. He says: As teachers, we are to let the people know, and warn these men - and this is not imagination - who, after having lived with their wives and brought into this world four or five children, get tired of them and seek a divorce, that they are on the road to hell (Ibid., pp. 63, 64). That comforts me a little, because I quoted something to a certain lovely sister who was having trouble with her husband, that no woman was expected to follow her husband to hell, and I am reinforced when President McKay made this statement: It is unfair to a woman to leave her that way, merely because the man happens to fall in love with some younger woman and feels that the wife is not so beautiful or attractive as she used to be. Warn him! Nothing but unhappiness for him and injustice to those children can result (Ibid., page 64). I saw what I think was the pinnacle of understanding in this respect when the president of the American Medical Association was here to give an address before our Utah Association. They, the auxiliary to the Utah Association, had arranged for some entertainment for his wife, but she became ill and could not accompany him, and the sisters, of course, were very disappointed, and one of them asked him, "Is your wife just as beautiful as she always was to you?" And he answered, "Yes, just as beautiful, but it does take her a little more time." Sometimes as we go throughout the Church we hear a husband and wife who come to us and ask that because they are not compatible in their marriage, they having had a temple marriage, wouldn't it be better if they were to free themselves from each other and then seek more congenial partners? And to all such we say, whenever we find a couple who have been married in the temple who say they are tiring of each other, it is an evidence that either one or both are not true to their temple covenants. Any couple married in the temple who are true to their covenants will grow dearer to each other, and love will find a deeper meaning on their golden wedding anniversary than on the day they were married in the house of the Lord. Now don't you mistake that. The duties and purposes of the Relief Society in this regard have found expression from one of the Presidents of the Church, President Joseph F. Smith, in which he emphasizes another phase of the woman's role as a member of the Relief Society. Now I have spoken of the one phase as a creator in company with her husband. Now note what President Joseph F.
