[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: A Brave Friend]

A Brave Friend It is not often that a distinguished puhlicist, an international educator and an editor of a powerful publication takes his life and reputation in hand to speak up in meeting in defense of Utah's misunderstood and often maligned people. When such a famous man does speak, all "Mormondom" owes him a debt of gratitude and reverence. Read what Dr. A. E. Winship, editor of the Journal of Education, of Boston, one of America's most popular writers and lecturers, has to say — not only of Utah's people a^ a whole, but of our beloved Relief Society in particular. (From October 26, ion. Journal of Education.) "indecent exploitation. "Any one who knows Utah, even though he has no disposition to regard the Saints as uniformly saintly, can but feel outraged at the style of treatment of this people in magazines that should have some regard for decency. We have known Utah for thirty-six years; we knew it in the days of Brigham Young and Orson Pratt. We knew it when the Gentile element was of no account, and we knew it when the Federal government was enforcing its laws. We have known Salt Lake City and Provo, and a score of lesser places, far and near. We knew Utah and its people when there was no fear of outside interference, and we know the state as it is today, and we know how outrageous it is to hold up to the present generation the people of that section in such a way as to have the truth lie, and to have lies pass for truth. We hold no brief from them, but we believe that the way in which this people is sensationally exploited in the magazines is as indefensible as anything that has ever been launched upon the public." (Journal of Education, March 1st.) "women's noble work for women. "One of the most brilliant achievements in women's work for women has, strangely enough, had all too little recognition. We refer to a women's organization known as the General Relief Society, with headquarters in Salt Lake City, organized seventyfive years ago in Illinois. There are a thousand local branches scattered over various states and countries with a total membership of 40,000, each member paying the slight membership fee of twenty-five cents a year. The members are classified in small groups of about twelve families each. Two members in each district are designated as visitors and every month of the year these two women make a call together upon each of the families of the group. The special object of these falls is to make sure that no family is in need of any aid in case of sickness or adversitv or is in anv trouble that cheer and ri^i^tance will relieve. A BRAVE FRIEND. 267 "The second object is to receive from them in case of prosperity any contribution for those in need among the 40,000 members. One of the weekly meetings each month is devoted to hearing reports of each family from the visitors. Absolute want is thus impossible, as is neglect in case of sickness, and no one can feel that she personally is friendless in the world. Relief is always at hand. "All collections are local, all relief is local, and the collections are retained locally, and not one penny of these contributions is used in the distribution. Every penny given in charity goes to charity. "An exact and audited account is kept of all receipts and reliefs. An annual report is made in detail to the general office in Salt Lake City, and when surpluses are created locally they may be, and frequently are, sent to the general office for emergencies on a large scale which may arise. "This Women's Relief Society is always among the first organizations to come to the relief of the needy in case of a great catastrophe of any kind. They have money in abundance, and there is no annoying red tape to hinder prompt action. In the case of San Francisco in 1906. of the Galveston flood, of the Indianapolis flood, the Belgian sufferers, et al., this society was the first, or near the first, in supplying urgent needs. The aid is as abundant as it is prompt. In the case of the San Francisco conflagration their aid was literally the first, and in the case of Belgium one little branch of thirty members at Bear Lake promptly raised $137 for the relief fund. "Last year the 'Women's Mites' collected from 40.000 members, without a pennv being taken therefrom for expenses, $70,125. Of this. $56,967 was paid out for genuine local relief, and $13,158 was the surplus. This relief went to 6.516 different families, and was always paid out locally upon the recommendation of the local visitors and was reported upon each month and reported also to the general office at the end of the year, so that both the local books and headquarters show the exact status. "The local branches, in looking after their own sick last year made 78,500 calls, of which 22,797 were full days or nights in attendance, watching by night or nursing by day. "All administration expense is borne from the twenty-five cent membership fee and much of this fee-fund goes to the charitv fund or its surplus, which in the seventv-five years, mostly from recent years, is now half a million dollars. What other Women's Relief Society has any such record, either of service or of accumulated surplus? "Such an achievement of women for women would ordinarlv be heralded far and wide by a publicity agency of great efficiency, lint so far as we know this is the first general recognition it has received."