[Vol4 | May 1917 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Departed Spirits Laura Moench Jenkins]

Departed Spirits. By Laura Moench Jenkins. Softly the vesper bells, ringing at eve, Call'd the fair spirit daughters to prayer. Silently glided each form to its place, Joining sweetly the requiem there. "Stay daughter Magdalena! Why art thou downcast?" inquired Mother Barbara as they two followed the retiring throng from the vesper hall. Tears sprang to Magdalena's eyes at the sympathetic words of the aged matron. "Nay, speak out, daughter. Dost thou yearn for freedom from this prison home, or cravest thou the companionship of thy husband and sons?" "O Mother Barbara!" sighed the unhappy woman. "How many many years we have been incarcerated here; waiting, watching, and pleading with our heavenly Father for deliverance. While upon earth, observed we not the laws of God to the best of the knowledge we had received? "At my knee, my little ones I taught to lisp their tiny prayers. They grew up to be Christian men and women, devout and just. One of my descendants, I have been told, has entered into the waters of baptism and become a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which is now established upon the earth. He is a learned man and has accomplished a great work among that people. He has also labored in the holy Temples of earth for his departed kindred, and now that he has been gathered to his fathers, he is teaching them the gospel of Christ. Many have accepted his teachings and, as the work is.done for them by proxy in the temples of earth, they were liberated from their prisons and are waiting for their wives and daughters to join them. Oh, when shall this opportunity come to us, Mother Barbara? Ilong to be clasped to the bosom of my husband and meet my hernoble sons and have my family reunited." In hands, Magdalena buried her face and wept. "Weep not, daughter," comfortingly spoke the motherly voice at her side. "Today, I have received good tidings for our race. This night, a woman is to be called from the World of Mortality, to teach this same gospel to her kindred womenfolk in this prison home. "I, too, have heard of the descendant of whom you have been speaking. His earthly name is Louis Frederick Hess and he is a Patriarch to our race. This woman is his daughter. Her 
 earthly career has prepared her for the mission she is to fill in the World of Spirits. Tonight thou mayst join the party earthward bound to meet our returning kinswoman. Make ready quickly, the hour of departure draws nigh. "Patriarch Hess, by authority of the holy Priesthood which he holds, is commissioned to release the spirit of his daughter and guide her safely to the land of Paradise. been "Louise known on Hess Arlvn is the name by which this woman has earth. "The western gate leading earthward is appointed as the place of meeting, and the time, the third bell of the night." Then softly whispering pass words in her ear, she bade her Godspeed and the two women separated. Down the long corridor slowly glided Mother Barbara until she stood at the door of her own chamber; silently she passed within and closed the door behind her. That she also carried a grief she would fain conceal, her tightly pressed lips and hands clasped over her heart gave evidence. Long years she had spent in this prison home breathing comfort to the daughters of her race, but hiding ever from all the gi ief of her own heart. A tale was sometimes told, among the more confidential spirits, of how. in the far* back ages of the dimly remembered past, her faithful husband — while in the prime of his early manhood— had died a martyr for Christianity. Alone she had struggled through these terrible days to rear tiieir family and train them to be God-fearing men and women. When her life on earth was finished she had come to dwell in this haven of spirits. In time her daughters had followed her, but from the husband of her choice she was separated; death had annulled their marriage vows and "they neither marry nor are given in marriage" in the Land of Spirits. A moment she stood lost in meditation. Through the long period of her waiting she had learned, when her burden of sorrow became greater than she could bear, to carry it to the Mercy Seat. Slowly she bowed her knees and silently appealed to her Creator. When she arose a calm tranquility o'erspread her patient countenance— she had received the comfort she desired. Magdalena hastened to her apartments and prepared herself for her journey. At the gate she was joined by Patriarch Hess and his wife Esther, the faithful parents of the woman whose spirit they were permitted to guide to the land of Paradise. Traveling at a velocity incomprehensible to mortality, they quickly arrived at their place of destination. Silently they hovered over the bed on which Louise Hess Arlvn lav, racked with DEPARTED SPIRITS. 257 pain and burning with fever. By her bedside sat her husband, worn with sorrow and anxiety. Her husband bent above her and a nurse gently smoothed her pillow, then both drew back to permit two elders to place their hands upon her head and plead with God in her behalf. Her husband joined in the ordinance. But their mortal eyes beheld not the personages in that room and they saw not the hands of the departed Patriarch placed also on. his daughter's head. They only knew they could not ask God to give her life, and they prayed that her spirit might depart in peace. Their prayers were quickly answered. The flushed face of the sufferer became pale and still and the calmness of death fell over her. Around her lifeless form gathered the grief-stricken family. Not theirs to behold her beautiful spirit take its natural form, freed from all bodily pains; not theirs to behold the loved ones and the happy meeting taking place so near them. Could their eyes for one moment have penetrated the veil — death would have lost its victory. "O my father and mother! Am I really with you? How happy I am! My suffering is gone and I am as free as the zephyrs of a gladsome day." Fondly both parents embraced their daughter and with the joy brought only by long separation, she returned their caresses. "This is a grandmother in our ancestral line, my daughter," explained the father as the wondering eyes of Louise fell on Magdalena. "She, too, has come to welcome you to your home in Paradise." Lovingiy the two women greeted each other. "Our time is limited and our stay must be short," cautioned the Patriarch. The words caused Louise to turn a farewell glance at her body lying quiet and motionless on her bed. Her gaze was instantly riveted on the group of loved ones gathered around it. "O my husband and my precious children!" she cried. "They are grieving for me. Stay, father! I cannot leave them — I must return to life — I am needed on the earth." Gently Esther placed her arm around her daughter. "We must all pass through such scenes as this," she whispered. "Louise, thy mission on earth is finished and the Father hath called thy spirit home," calmly spoke the voice of Patriarch Hess. "The God who heareth the raven's cry will provide for those you are leaving behind; He will bind up their wounds and comfort their hearts. "Thy going before shall be as a light set afar in the darkness, guiding their wandering feet to the land in which you await their 258 KtL/tF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. coming. This parting will be of short duration. Thou wert given to thy husband by one having authority to bind on earth and in heaven. Death doth not annul thy marriage vows and thy children will be thine throughout the countless ages of eternity. Thy sudden demise will arouse other members of our family to greater diligence in this work of redemption of our departed kindred. It is necessary that they be awakened from their lethargy, they are spending too much time at that which pertains to mortality only. Any house whose duty to its dead remains undone shall be smitten with a curse, for God will not accept us without our dead. "Thou art called to teach the gospel of Christ to the women of thy race, who, for centuries past, have been praying for deliverance. Their families are separated and they cannot advance, until they receive the gospel in the spirit and the work is done for them by proxy in the holy temples of earth. "The dead, must be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit. In their prison home thousands are awaiting Louise turned thy from coming with joyful the weeping group anticipation." beneath her and met the silent, appealing look in Magdalena's wistful countenance. A longing filled her heart for power to speak and explain to her loved ones why she was leaving them, but she found herself no longer able to commune with those of the material world. Her mother's voice aroused her from her reverie. "Daughter, we can no longer delay. The family are already leaving this room and the sisters of the Relief Society are here to care Louisefor your saw body." the door of the death chamber close on those she loved most on earth. Then she turned for one last look at the body which the years of mortality had so endeared to her, with a sigh — almost a sob — she whispered: "I am ready.-' I'nobserved by mortal eyes, the little party had entered the room and unobserved they took their departure. Onward they sped o'er waves of ethereal blue until once more they stood before the ancient gates of Paradise. Passwords were exchanged with its aged keeper, and the Great White Gates swung open to admit them to the Land of Departed Spirits. Little three-year-old Lucy sat upon her grandfather's knee in the late spring twilight. "Po you hear the crickets, Lucy?" said grandfather. "They say, go to bed, Lucy, go to bed, go to bed." "Let them talk," calmly replied Lucy.