			SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the San Juan Stake was held at
Bluff, Feb. 22, 1891. Coun. Martha Hammond
presiding. Choir sang “Hail to the brightness,”
Prayer by Coun. Wm. Halls. Singing “Softly
beams the sacred dawning.” Coun. Hammond
regretted that Pres. Jane M. Walton was not
present, but felt sure she had a reasonable
excuse.
	In the absence of the Stake Secretary Sister
Annie M. Lyman was sustained as secretary
of the conference.
	Pres. Kistine Neilson reported the Bluff
ward. Stake Coun. Josephine Wood felt that
the Relief Society was doing a great work and
wished to do her part. Felt encouraged by
what she had heard during conference; knew
that a mother needed to be humble and prayer-
ful so as to claim help from the Lord.
	Bishop Geo. Halls reported the Mancos
ward. Said that on account of the bad weather
the sisters could not go out to meetings at all 
times, but they are alive to their duties and
anxious to do their best.
	Sister Agnes Allen bore testimony to the
truth of the Gospel, spoke upon kindness and
charity. Sister Eliza Redd felt well in the
work of the Society and wished to do good;
knew that mothers ought to thoroughly under-
stand the principles of the Gospel.
	Bishop Neilson testified that the Relief
Society was a help to the ward, and wished to
encourage the sisters; compared the circum-
stances that surrounded him in his young days
with those that surround the young people in
Utah.
	Sister Elsa Neilson bore her testimony to
the truth, and to the good instructions we had
received.
	Sister Harriet Ann Barton felt proud of the
sisters of Bluff for she knew they desired to
do right and they entertained good feelings to-
wards each other. Coun. Wm. Halls thought
that women ought to have an equal right with
men in saying who should preside over them.
Prayed God to bless the sisters in their labors
among the saints.
	Pres. Hammond testified that a goodly por-
tion of the spirit of God had been enjoyed by


those who had spoken. Said he had been in-
terested in what had been said. Although the
sisters felt weak they were able to say some-
thing to edify and encourage. Wished to en-
courage the sisters to speak their ideas freely
and cultivate the gift of speaking, for as a
natural consequence the gift would be im-
parted to their offspring. The Relief Society
is as a normal school for the sisters and every
mother should be a live active member of the
association. Advised the officers to attend the
general conference and mingle with the heads
of the different organizations.
	The general and stake officers of the Relief
Society were then sustained.
	Coun. Martha Hammond said there had
been some talk of not holding conference be-
cause of the absence of the President and rep-
resentatives from other wards but was glad
that conference had been held and knew that
we had obtained a blessing. 
	The conference was adjourned for three
months, choir sang "Come O thou king of
kings." Benediction by Brother Samuel
Wood.
		ANNIE M LYMAN, Sec., pro tem.

