SPEECH BY E. R. SNOW.

	Eighth meeting of Relief Society, Sugar
House Ward, at the residence of A. C. Pyper
July. 29th, 1868, S. E. Angell, Secretary.
Opened by singing. Prayer by Mrs. Ann S.
Clark. Miss Eliza R. Snow being present by
invitation, addressed the sisters as follow:
	"We have met in the capacity of a Relief
Society. I consider this a matter of great im-
portance. A Society of this kind has always
existed whenever the priesthood has been
upon the earth, and the allusion of the Apostle
to the Elect Lady as recorded in the New
Testament, means the one who presided over
 each Society in his day. Miss Snow said she
had brought with her the original minutes of
the meeting of the society at Nauvoo or-
ganized by the Prophet Joseph Smith from
which she read a few extracts; she said be not
over zealous, but remember that the wants of
the poor in spirit are to be deplored more
than the wants of the body, The duties of the
members of this Society are extensive, our
minds are liable to be led off, it is necessary
that we meet together often to stir up our
minds to diligence; this organization gives us
an opportunity to meet legally,it is not a mere
plaything but a sacred holy duty, under the
direction of your Bishop, do not run to him
with every trifle. Those called to be teachers
ought to be filled with the Holy Ghost that
when they enter a house they will know by the
spirit who in that house has the Holy Ghost
and who has not, some may think this an
indifferent office, but this is a mistake, and
when you visit do not be abrupt, but apply
your words in a manner which will prove

[Column 2]

beneficial to those to whom you speak, and
if they have lost their first love tell them of
the joy and peace that dwells in the hearts of
those who live up to their privileges and in
blessing others you will be blessed; we pro-
fess to be saints! what a high and holy call-
ing! we are looking forth to the time when we
shall become heirs of God and joint heirs with
Jesus Christ. The Garden of Eden was in
Jackson County Mo., when Adam and Eve
were driven out they went North. I have seen
with my natural eyes the Altar on which
Adam offered his first sacrifice, where he
blessed his children, and there is where we
shall meet the Savior face to face. The
celestinl law must be kept by those who go
there, and no one can go there, who does not
keep the word of wisdom, or is in any way un-
prepared for the society of God and the holy
angels; these are not visionary ideas, but
realities. There are many of the sisters
whose labors are not known beyond their
own dwellings and perhaps not appreciated
there, but what difference does that make? if
your labors are acceptable to God, however
simple the duties, if faithfully performed, you
should never be discouraged. The duties of
this society cannot be defined, those who will
not swerve from their duty are to become
saviors on Mount Zion. God is looking down
upon you, the angels are recording your secret
acts; and while you are here acting, you are
not expected to neglect your family duties.
You will feel so much better by attending to
these things, that you will gain time, and if
you are united in your efforts you will have
the blessing of God when you meet; in attend-
ing to these duties be careful that you bring no
reproach on the society. Our brethren are to
be kings, are we qualified for the positions of
queens? Let us pray daily, and try to become
more refined and womanly and bring up our
children to be polite and refined, that they
may be useful ornaments to society. This
society gives us a chance to improve our minds
and qualify ourselves to fill important posi-
tions.
	In Society President Young purposes to get
up classes for the sisters similar to the school
of the prophets; some sisters will not move for-
ward because they wish to go hand in hand
with the world; we should improve our talents
for the time will come when every faithful
man and woman will go forth like Adam and
Eve.
	This Society should find work for the poor
take no imposition, but let those who are able
sustain themselves; if we are called to suffer
affliction, God will sanctify it to us for our
good, if we want to be superfine flour we must
stand still and let the mill roll on. He can
overrule all things for our good; it is necessary
for us to taste affliction, that we may learn to
appreciate the blesaings of our Heavenly
Father, if we have not as much of this spirit
as we ought to have, live for it, for the spirit
of our religion brings peace; improve your
temporal affairs, endeavor to make home
happy, keep your children from vicious com-
pany; and while you study to dress them neatly
do not neglect to adorn their minds with those
principles which will tend to elevate and
enoble them, and prepare them for future
usefulness in the kingdom of our God.
	Benediction by E. R. Snow.


