WOMAN'S SPECIAL MISSION.

	There are so many subjects of interest in the
present day and so much occuring from time to
time that is worthy of attention, and that calls
out ideas that are original, and opinions that are
new, that when one attempts to write, or speak,
so much of importance crowds into the mind of
the individual, that it is difficult to decide what
choice to make, or in what line or direction one
can do the most good. It is the same or similar
to this when one goes on a journey and especially
when meeting many people, who are worth re-
membering, aad hearing themes and topics dis-
cussed, that create so much thought and open up
fields, as it were, to traverse over, and select the
best and choicest gems or tiny seeds scattered
for those, who follow the lead or paths opened
by those, who are as guides to the masses. It is
always the few who lead, or who sew the seed
that yields the harvest for the thousands and tens
of thousands. To some it seems to be given to
do this very work, and often without even appre-
ciation by the multitude thus benefitted.
	In the recent Council and Convention held by
the leading women in Washington, D. C., women
of the brightest intellect and superior education
gathered from the various parts of the United
States and some from other countries, there was
so much given that furnished food for thought
in those few days, and the women themselves
made such an excellent study, that looking back
upon it and recalling the whole transaction with
those who figured in it, one is lost in contempla-
tion of themes and admiration for the work and
the workers, until it seems to become a perfect
puzzle not only how so much could be crowded
into so short a space of time, but what to select
from the whole as best to use in giving a brief
description of the affair.
	The writer is often asked, what was accom-
plished, by the coming together of these great
bodies of women?" "What do you expect to
gain?" Individually to those who listened atten-
tively the actual gain was something worth while
in the way of finding out how much women knew
on certain subjects, how well they had informed
themselves, and how magnificently they could im-
part that knowledge to others. Certainly one thing
was very apparent, that women could teach pub-
licly on the platform, not only common-place
matters, such as mothers teach at the fireside but
also expound doctrine and principle, and even
the Scriptures, and that too in a way to touch the
heart and the understanding, as few men trained
in this very calling could do.
	Evidently superior women are becoming lights
to the world, they are no longer hid away in a
corner knitting or darning stockings, for both are
done now by machinery, but they stand up and
proclaim great moral and spiritual truths, and the

[Column 2]

people are glad to hear them. Such women as
the Rev. Anna Shaw, Rev. Amanda Deyo, Rev.
Olympia Brown, Isabella Davis and others with
and without the title of Reverend, speaking as
they did at that Council of Women this year, and
as they do elsewhere, will and must accomplish
something for the uplifting of humanity. Un-
doubtedly they have a mission and the spirit of it
rests upon them.
	From time to time in our columns we expect
to publish extracts from the speeches of these
famous speakers, that our readers may have the
opportunity of knowing something of the work
in which they are engaged, and the success which
is marking the march of woman's intellect in the
nineteenth century. The learned clergy generally
speaking are opposed to women preachers, and
fear their influence. Why they should, seems
utterly absurd; for men and women must rise to-
gether, one cannot do without the other, or life
itself would cease to be; therefore let woman as
well as man do what she can do best; wherever
her influence is used for good to promote moral-
ity, virtue, and temperance, or to develop any of
the higher qualities or gifts mental, moral or
spiritual, in that sphere she should be allowed to
labor. Men argue (and many women) that wo-
man's province is the home, allowing this to be
true, how many thousands of women have no
home,such women may have a distinctive mission
who can tell? Men seldom find fault with wo-
men who spend the greater part of their time in
society, that many think is a blessing, woman's
influence in the ball room at dinner parties, and
places of amusement is elevating and purifying,
yet that takes her from home, as much or often
more than to be a public speaker or minister;
but the real objection no doubt is that one inter-
feres with the calling and position of men, in-
fringes upon their 'vantage ground and the other
does not.
	When the great Prophet of this dispensation of
the nineteenth century turned the key of knowl-
edge for woman, it opened up a flood of light that
spread abroad and touched all women who were
susceptible of light from on high with a portion
of its divine radiance; and the awakening came;
just as when the spirit of Elijah came to turn the
hearts of the children to the fathers, to seek
after them etc., it reached the world, and the
people began to look up their records and
histories and genealogies and publish books of
families. So the Lord works in many directions
and in marvelous ways, and women as well as
men will have missions of great importance, and
the Lord will help them if they seek wisdom from
on high.
	In fact one cannot help thinking the Savior
himself set this glorious example of giving to wo-
man a divine mission, when he said to Mary and
the other women who were with her, "Go tell my
brethren &c." There have been times in the
history of the world as recorded in the Scriptures
when the most important questions have been
settled by a woman, (strange to state but never-
theless true) on one occasion when, the high
priests and scribes were commanded by the King
to inquire of the Lord concerning a certain matter
that was written in the book of the Law of the
Lord, which was found when they were repairing
the House of the Lord, and which thing troubled
the King, these wise men high priests and scribes
went to Huldah the prophetess, who dwelt in the
college at Jerusalem, and she actually gave them
the word of the Lord, prophesied to them; what
presumption that would be considered nowadays,
aud yet who knows what may come to pass even
in this day and age?
	It is very generally conceded that the Lord
raises up great men from time to time, and en-
dows them with special gifts to perform a cer-
tain work or works, so also why may He not in
the same way raise up women for special missions?

[Column 3]

Is it not reasonable when the man is not with-
out the woman nor the woman without the man in
the Lord, must they not also be associated to-
gether in His work? The signs of the times sig-
nify the fact that woman's era has already dawned
that henceforth her plane will be a higher one,
that the curse placed upon her is gradually being
removed and in the restoration of all things that
is to come to pass, woman will have to do her
part to bring about her own salvation, and out of
that great mother-love of which she is possessed
she may do much towards the redemption of the
human family. The world is wide enough and
there is work for all in the Master's vineyard.


