EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The sisters semi-monthly meeting held
regularly in the 14th Ward, will be postponed on
account of President Harrison’s visit from Satur-
day May 9th until Saturday May 23rd.
	Zina D. H. Young, President of the Relief
Society expects to leave the city early in this
month on a a visit to Canada; she will probably
be absent abount two or perhaps three months.
She has been in Logan for a few days attending
to Temple work and visiting sisters meetings
and conferences, and speaks very highly of the
condition of the associations in that vicinity.
	President Harrison and party are expected to
arrive in Salt Lake City on the 9th of May and
therefore the day will be observed as a general
holiday in the city. The Sunday School child-
ren are to welcome him with banners, badges,
songs and flowers; Utah is famous for beautiful
children and on this occasion there will be a
grand opportunity to let the Chief Executive of
the nation see how numerous the generation
growing up in Utah has already become; this is
one of the features of the Territory in which the
people take special delight.
	The children of the Primary Associations are
going to have a Fair in the city sometime in June
about the time of the Quarterly Conference which
will very probably be held on the 20th of June; it
is quite necessary that the preparations should
be going on in the local associations, otherwise
they would have very little time, and the officers
of the Stake organization of the Primary are
very anxious that the Children's Fair for Salt
Lake Stake shall be a decided success in the way
of display of articles requiring ingenuity and
skill. Pres. Ellen C. Clawson and her Coun-
selors will do all in their power and hope to have
the hearty co-operation of the officers and child-
ren in all the wards of this county. Pres. Claw-
son also wishes all the children of the Primary
Associations near here to consider themselves
invited to participate in the Picnic in Liberty-
Park on the first day of June, which day has
been designated as Children’s Day in honor of
President Brigham Young, and as a fitting tri-
bute to his memory from the children of Zion.
This custom will make a lasting impression upon
the minds of the little people, and it is a practise 
which will we hope spread throughout all the
Stakes of Zion.
	Mrs. C. Louise Boyden will give a musical and
dramatic entertainment in the Salt Lake theatre
on Monday evening, May 25th, at which time she
will give some of her finest recitations or readings;
and her manner of address, her voice and
style are altogether pleasing and she displays in
her acting, talents of a high order. Mrs. Boyden
has been laboring very faithfully among the child-
ren and young ladies, in this city for some months
and has given public recitations for them in
several wards, at different times, that have called
forth the commendation of those who have had
the privilege and pleasure of attending these re-


citals. One of these will be given in the 18th
Ward school house on Wednesday evening May
13th, at which time friends of the art are invited
to come and see for themselves. Mrs. Boyden's
work in that direction was highly spoken of in
the Denver papers, and she has devoted herself
exclusively to the interest of Elocution here,
winning the sincere admiration of some highly
cultivated people. We hope that Mrs.
Boyden may meet with the success her work
deserves. She will be assisted at the entertain-
ment by a few of her pupils and also by some of
the best musical talent in the city, besides music,
songs and recitations, there will be a short play.


