			M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.

	After speaking of the women who are the de
scendants of Isaac and Rebecca, our thoughts
naturally revert to the daughters of Ishmael,
whose tents whiten the Arabian desert. Al-
though they claim their descent from the same
father (Abraham) as the Hebrew women do, yet
they differ materially, in their proclivities, and
mode of life. The descendants of Ishmael are,
for the most part, Mohamedans, living in tents
upon the vast deserts of the East, as the bulk of
them do, they have seen less of the changes time
has wrought than have the banished, and
scattered descendants of Isaac, and though so
closely allied in blood they know less of each
other than any other people. Changes of fashion
either in household matters, or dress, trouble
them little, if at all, and while the Hebrews
despise, and dislike an agricultural life, the
Ishmaelites follow the primitive occupations and
manners of their forefathers, (viz.) the keeping of
numerous flocks and herds, and the tilling of
land for their support. The Jew is by nature a
trader, and thus accumulates wealth in the cities
of every known nation on earth; while the Arab
prefers a tent for his dwelling, finds his pleasures
in hunting, and fighting, and his occupation in
herding his flocks, and cultivating enough land
to grow grain for his support, and flax for his
clothing, and in these occupations he is assisted
by the women,as indeed he is in all others. The
highest ambition of these wanderers is to own a
well of pure water, for he who does so is counted
a wealthy man, and to him come his nomadic
brethren to buy the precious fluid for their own
use and to water their cattle. In many families
the key of the well is intrusted to the charge of
the daughters, and, like Rebecca they do not feel
it beneath their dignity to attend to the watering
of their own stock, or of those who come to buy.
	When we see these veiled figures at the well,
the mind iustinctively reverts to the fair woman,
which the servant of Isaac found attending to the
same duty, dressed in the same fashion, but with
face uncovered, and we could almost believe we
were living in that age of the world, and that
thousands of years had not elapsed since the
mother of Isreal left her father’s tent to become
the wife of Abraham's favored son, and the
ancestress of the Redeemer. To-day, as in those
ages past, the daughters of a Sheik, or chief, (for
the name is synonymous;) though they do not
grind the corn, or make the sweetmeats, for
which the Arabs are famous, yet they will go to
the well, wait while the herds are watered, re-
ceive the pay, and return to their tent, with the
stately bearing, and proud look that becomes
them so well; but no man sees their face, for the
law of Mohamet forbids a woman to go abroad


without her veil,which covers the face,except the
eyes, and though the long, dark, lashes appear to
conceal those dark orbs, yet they are adepts in the
use of them and well understand their power.
	Many of the Arab women are very beautiful
when young, and their figures are lithe and grace-
ful, but as age advances they grow very stout,
and are almost repulsive in features and man-
ner.
	Many of them can spin, and weave, the beauti-
ful parti-colored fabric with which both the men,
and women, among the wealthy, clothe them-
selves, as well as the course material that forms
the dress of the poor. Many among them are
very expert in the use of the needle, as the rich
and gorgeously embroidered scarfs worn by both
sexes, as well as the splendid trappings of their
horses, testify. In their features it is easy to
trace the lineage of both Abraham and Hagar.
	In some the Egyptian mother is strongly
marked both in looks and character. Where the
nose is broad, and lips thick, the skin is darker
hued, than in those where the Hebrew is strongly
represented.
	Many traveller's describe the Arab women as
living a life of idleness and ignorance, but that
is not my experience of them; of course the
climate does not admit of their being so active,
and full of bustle, as are the women who dwell
in colder climates, for even among their neigh-
bors, who live north of Hebron, we find them
leading more active lives,the air of the mountains
is more bracing, and invigorating, and stimulates
them to take more exercise than those who
dwell on the burning plains.
	Perhaps there is no more interesting sight to
the traveler, than to meet a tribe moving their
tents from one Oasis to nnother, literally seeking
“Fresh fields and pastures new." The women
mounted on camels are completly covered, and
from their peculiar positions when riding look
like huge mishapen bundles of clothes; they sit
in a heap for hours at a time, without apparent
movement or life, and yet beneath their calm ex-
terior often lurks the most fervent passions.
	Love, hatred and jealousy, have full play in the
hearts and lives of these closely guarded, yet but
lightly prized women; they have but little will of
their own, or if they have, they cannot use it,
they are but slaves, owned by hard masters; and
those masters ihey have no voice in choosing.
The parting blessings of Abraham to Hagar have
been literally fulfilled, for the descendants of
Ishmael are extremely numerous, and comprise
many nations. They live the same nomadic life
their ancestors lived; they are just as wild and
untameable, while beneath that stolid, exterior
smolders a fire that the merest spark will kindle
into a blaze that is difficult to extinguish. As we 
near the Persian Gulf we find them following the
religion of Zaroaster, occupying cities, and
villages, and living in that semi-civilized state
which that creed professes to teach.
	But whether they are better, or happier under
that regime, is a question somewhat difficult to
answer.
	One thing, however, is certain, and that is, that
women are not less slaves there, than are their
sisters of the desert, while the last named,
breathe a purer atmosphere, have more out door
exercise, and are under less restraint than those
who dwell in the cities.


