			UINTAH STAKE.
	Sixth conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah Stake of Zion convened in the Ashley
meeting house, March 2, 1891. President
Sarah Pope presiding. Singing "Guide us O
thou great Jehovah;" prayer by Pres. Samuel
R. Bennion; singing "Come, come ye saints."
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. Pres. Pope spoke of the bad roads
and ways some had to come, said "we have
visited the different wards since our last con-
ference and found the most of the sisters try-
ing to do as well as they can considering the
disadvantages they are laboring under, but
nevertheless we must try and do all we can
for the needy, we must not forget the aged, the
widow and the orphan, some of the parents of
these children have stepped  behind the veil,
and their children are left here and we must
look after them; sisters we must look after our
children and do the best we can with them
while they are under our care, it is an old say-
ing the way 'the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined,' but this is not always the case, some
times children are taught good principles at
home but when they get away they do very
different from what they have been taught.
Let us keep the commandments of God while
we are here on the earth so that we shall be
prepared to die, for when we are prepared to
live we are prepared to die, and when we are
prepared to die we are prepared to live. I
feel like saying God bless my sisters this morn-
ing and may He give us his spirit to be with
us is my prayer, Amen.
	Reports were read from four different
branches of the Relief Society; after which
Sister Sarah Coltron gave the sisters some
good instructions Sister Collett spoke in-
terestingly to the sisters.
	Bishop Freestone gave the sisters good
counsel and asked the Lord to bless them in
their labors.
	Sister R. Remington was more accustomed
to speaking to the young ladies but felt to
bear her testimony to the truth of this work
and asked the Lord to bless all the associa-
tions in His church and kingdom. Sister
Oaks was pleased to think she was numbered
with the Latter-day saints, spoke of the differ-
ence between our circumstances now and when
we came here, how much more comfortable
we are at present than we were at that time;
asked the Lord to continue to bless us.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.; singing,
"Come O thou king of kings." Benediction
by Pres. Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session opened with singing,

[column 2]
"Once more my soul the rising day," prayer
by Bishop Oplynop, singing, "Let those who
would be saints indeed," followed by the re-
maining reports.
	Coun. Hatch said we should try to teach
our children in the way they should go and
follow the path of virtue and we never should
speak evil of each other, but rather feel to
encourage each other, and we should as wives
and mothers be kind at home that our children
should feel that home is the dearest place on
earth.
	Brother James Hacking said the sisters re-
marks here to-day have caused me to reflect
upon many things; I feel to endorse what
has been said, there has been great improve-
ment made in many ways in the different as-
sociations in the Church. We often when we
meet speak of our children, we are very anxious
for their welfare, we should try to instil into
their young minds good principles, the prin-
ciples of virtue, honesty and truth; I think
the labors of the sisters in the Relief Society
result in a great deal of good.
	Brother R. S. Collett thought we ought to
have a good time we had come a long way in
the mud; spoke of the difference in peoples'
dispositions, spoke very encouragingly to the
sisters told them they should always have their
children blessed while young, as that blessing
would follow them; spoke quite lengthy on
different subjects which were very interesting. 
Sister Freestone thought we should send our
children to the Primary meetings and Sunday
Schools that they may grow up to be useful
men and women on the earth; counseled the
sisters to beware of pride for it is not right to
be proud nor yet to uphold our children in
being proud, hoped she would be able to hold
out faithful to the end.
	Pres. Sarah Pope made a few closing re-
marks and conference adjourned until the first
Monday in September. Sung, "Lo the Gentile
chain is broken." Benediction by Brother
Joseph H. Gardner.
