DEAR SISTER:
	I have taken the EXPONENT ever since it
was first published; but have never written a
word for it yet. So I will avail myself of
this opportunity. I have been a teacher in
the Relief Society in Gunnison and other
places since May 1868. I have walked hun-
dreds of miles to visit my sisters, and have had
many happy hours with them, and hope I shall
many more.
	In our Relief Society here in Gunnison
there are 163 members; we are getting along
well. We hold our monthly meetings regularly
also a working meeting every month in which
we make quilts for the poor, etc. We have a
very good president. She is always thought-
ful of the poor and of what she can do for
them. Our Society is having a new store
built and is progressing favorably.
	I am now seventy years old, I had my
last birthday in February, when a number of
my children and friends came and surprised
me, and they gave me some nice presents.
	I have been in the Church 35 years, but
have never regretted it. I know the Gospel
is true, I know there is no other way to be
saved. I received the Gospel in its fulness,
and will stand up for it ever, God being my
helper. I have had many ups and downs in
my life, I but still I know that Joseph Smith
was a true prophet, I can bear that testimony
to all my sisters and to all the world.

	When I sit in my little home in my lonely
hourse, I always think of what troubles and
trials I have passed through in my life; but
through it all I can see that the Lord has had
His eye upon me since I came into this world.
Sisters, let us be prayerful; pray for one
another, and the authorities of this Church.
	I will call my sisters' attention to the
Temple. Do not be too slow to do your work
there; for we see people pass away on the
right and left of us, and we know not the hour
when we will be called away. There are
many on the other side of the veil watching
and waiting for us to release them. If I had
the means, I should spend the rest of my days
in that holy House.
	There are many who are blest with means.
I think they could not spend it in a better way
for that would indeed be treasures laid up in
heaven. I have 115 names on my record for
whom I have performed a work or had it done
for them. What a happy day it will be when
I meet them in the millenium, I ask the
Lord to bless you.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARY KJAR SANDERSON.
	Gunnison, April 21, 1891.


