BY MRS. ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.

Read at the Woman's National Council,
	Washington, D. C., Feb. 1891, by
		Miss Susan B. Antnony.

	All along from the beginning until the 16th
century, when Luther eliminated the feminine
elements wholly from the Protestant religion
and brought the full power of the church to
enforce woman's complete subjection, we find
traces of the matriarchate. Karl Pearson, in
a series of deeply interesting essays gives us
the result of his researches into the works of
modern historians, and the startling facts they
unearth,from what to most of us is the dead, un-
known, eternal past, shadowed in mystery.
The publication of "Das Mutterecht," by Bac-
hofen in 1861, of Morgan's "Ancient Society,"
in 1877, of Wilkeson's "Ancient Egypt," in
1836, with other lesser lights pursuing the
same trend of investigation, all show the lead-
ing independent position women held for ages.
	Morgan in his "Ancient Society," gives
many remarkable examples of the superior
position of women among different tribes in
the latter part of the period of barbarism.
Among the greater number of American aborig-
ines the descent of property and children
were in the female line. Women sat in the
councils of war, and peace and their opinions
had equal weight on all questions. Among
the Winnebagoes that occupied the territory
now known as Wisconsin, a woman was at the
head of the nation. The same was true 
among the early tribes or gens in the East-
ern Hemisphere. In the councils of the Iro-
quois gens every adult male or female member
had a voice upon all questions brought before
it.
	At the epoch of European discovery, the
American Indian tribes were generally organ-
ized into gentes, with descent in the female
line.
	During the early periods the property of
women were in her own line and gens, and
man's property was in his own line and gens.
The following case at the Pueblo of Oraybe
shows that the husband aquires no rights
over the property of the wife, or over the
children of the marriage. A Zunian married

[Column 2]
an Orabye woman and had by her three child-
ren. He resided with them at Oraybe until his
wife died, when the relatives of the deceased
wife took possession of her children and
household property; leaving to him his cloth-
ing, horse and weapons. As was the custom
he returned to his own people at Zuni.
	From this it appears the children belonged
to the mother, not to the father; and that he
was not allowed to take them even after the
mother's death. Such also, was the usage
among the Iroquois and other northern tribes,
and among the villiage Indians of Mexico.
	The period of woman's supremacy lasted
through many centuries—undisputed, accepted
as natural and proper wherever it existed, and
was called the matriarchate, or mother-age. It
was plainly traceable among the Aryans, the
Germans, the Persians, and indications of it
are still seen among uncivilized tribes and na-
tions. 
	Careful historians now show that the great-
est civilizing power all along the pathway of
of natural history has been found in the wis-
dom and tender sentiments growing out of
motherhood. For the protection of herself
and her children woman made the first home in
the caves of the earth; then huts with trees in
the sunshine. She made the first attempts at
agriculture; raised grain, fruits and herbs
which she learned to use in sickness. She
was her own physician; all that was known to
the medical art was in her hands. 
	Perhaps more interesting for us to-day is
the actual existence of the matriarchate in
the north of Africa among the Touaregs.
	The child belongs to the mother and not to
father; it is the blood of the mother and not
the father, which confers on the child the rank
he is to take. Formerly,when there was a ques-
tion of territorial distribution, the lands grant-
ed to each family were inscribed in the name
of the mother. The Berber law gives to
women the administration of their property;
at Rhat, they alone dispose of houses, gardens,
—in a word, of all the landed property in the
country. Among the Touaregs, not only is
woman held the equal of man, but she enjoys
a preferable condition. She disposes of her
hand and in the conjugal community she ad-
ministers her own fortune, without being
forced to contribute to the expense of the
household. Thus it happens, that as produc-
tions accumulate, the greater part of the 
wealth is in the hands of the women.
	These social customs have produced extra-
ordinary developments in the Targui woman.
Her intelligence and her initiative spirit are
astonishing in the midst of a Mussulman
society. She excels in bodily exercises; on
the back of a dromedary she travels a hun-
dred kilometers to attend a soiree, she com-
petes in races with the boldest cavalier of the
desert. She is distinguished by intellectual
culture; the ladies of the tribe of Ymanan are
celebrated for their beauty and their musical
talent; when they give concerts the men come
eagerly from the most distant parts, adorned
like male ostriches.
	Touaregs are the descendants of the Lybians
spoken of by Herodotus. The historian tells
us that the male children are not compelled by
law to maintain their parents, this charge is
incumbent by law upon the daughters. The
imposition of such a duty on the daughters
sufficed to establish the rule that the wealth of 
the family should belong to the women, and


[Column 1]

﻿wherever the woman possesses this economic
position, she is not under the guardianship of
her husband, but is the head of the family.
	The Rev. Samuel Gorman, a missionary
among the Taguna Pueblo Indians, remarks
in an address before the Historical Society of
New Mexico that "the right of property be-
longs to the female part of the family, and
descends in that line from mother to daugh-
ter."
	Then women generally have control of
the granary, and they are more provident
than their Spanish neighbors about the future.
Ordinarily they try to have a year's provision
on hand. It is only when two years of scarcity
succeed each other that Pueblos, as a commuity
suffer hunger.
	Of the Senecas of North America, the Rev.
Arthur Wright wrote in 1873: "Usually the
females ruled the house. The stores were in
common: but woe to the luckless husband or
lover who was too shiftless to do his share of
the providing. No matter how many children,
or whatever goods he might have in the house,
he might at any time be ordered to pick up
his blanket and budge; and after such an or-
der it would not be healthful for him to
attempt to disobey.
	The women were the great power among the
clan, as everywhere else. They did not hesi-
tate, when occasion required, 'to knock off the
horns,' as it was technically called, from the
head of a chief and send him back to the
ranks of the warriors. The original nomina-
tion of the chiefs also always rested with the
women."
	The account we find given by the Portu-
guese navigators of the Nairs, a people inhabi-
ting the coast of Malabar in the fifteenth cen-
tury, is another proof of the superior con-
dition of women under previons family sys-
tems. The Nairs were then in a state of
actual civilization; they had a marine
and well-organized  army; their towns
were wealthy and the inhabitants courteous in
manners.
	The mother, or in case of her death, the
eldest daughter, was the head of the family;
the eldest brother, named the foster father,
managed the estate; the husband was a guest;
he only entered the house on fixed days, and,
did not sit at table with his wife and children.
"The Nairs," says Barbosa, "have an extra-
ordinary respect for their mother; it is from
her they receive wealth and honors; they
honor equally their eldest sister, who is to
succeed the mother and take the management
of the family. The children belong to the
mother, and she takes their support on her-
self." The Nair family system was maintained
among the Malabar people till the invasion of
Hyder Ali in 1766."
	Strabo says of the primitive people of
Spain: "That they suffered a most foolish
governance by women; that the women
possossed the property, and it passed from
mother to daughter; that the latter gave away
their brothers in marriage; that the men took
a dowry with them into the houses of their
wives; that the women perform all the agri-
cultural work, and were as hardy as men.
	The women at a later period were not only
the rulers of the home but they were priestesses;
the deities were in a great part goddesses. All
there was of learning and tradition was in the
hands of the women, the folk custom long
recognized their superiority to man.
	The safety of mother and child, in the
solitude of the vast primeval forests, was due
in no small measure, to the superstition that
woman was in communion with the gods who
would avenge her wrongs. Her spirit is sup-
posed to linger around the hearth after death,
and to-day the solitary student sitting over the
fire, or the peasant when the family are out,

[Column 2]

will tell you they have been alone at the hearth
with their mother soul.
	They are conceived of peculiarly as divine
mother, (gottermuther) traveling about and
visiting mortals. From them mankind has
learned the business and the arts of house-
keeping, agriculture, cattle raising, spinning,
weaving, sowing, reaping, as well as watching
the hearth. These labors bring peace and rest
to the land, and the memory of them remains
firmer in pleasing traditions, than war and
fighting, which like women, the majority of the
goddesses shun. Karl Pearson says: "A truer
although unconscious tribute to the civilizing
work of women, can hardly be imagined."
	Karl Pearson tells us, the transition from the
mother to the father-age was marked by the
appearance of women of gigantic stature. The
old legends of contests between men and wo-
men for supremacy are not such idle fancies as
some would have us believe. Very dark shad-
ows indeed do such figures as those of Ildico,
Fredegunde and Brunhilde cast across the
pages of history. Such women were only
paralelled by the Clytemnestra and Medea of
a like phrase in Greek development. Among
the Germans, too, the poets represented the
contest between men and women for the
mastery. Wuodan replaces Hellja; Siegfried
conquers Brunhilde; Beovulf, the offspring of
Grindel and Thor, fights with Gialp, and
Griep, the daughters of Geirrod. One great
element of physical and mental vigor is free-
dom' which women have never enjoyed except
under the Matriarchate.
	The Amazons, the present body guard of the
King of Dohomey, the astounding powers of
endurance exhibited by domestic servants and
the peasant girls of southern Germany and
Italy, and the fish-women at Boulogne, all point
to the great strength of women when once the
physique has beep developed.
	The victory of man over woman was not
easily accomplished. It took long centuries to
fully confirm it, and traces of the mother-age
remain throughout the Mediaeval times. The
permanency of sex relations among the agri-
culturists and the necessity for organization in
matters of defence, which must be entrusted
mainly to men, were the beginnings of the
father age.
	Driven from the commanding position of
home-mother, and deprived of her rights to
property and children, the last fortress of the
Teutonic woman was her sacerdotal privileges.
She remained holy as priestess. She had
charge of the tribal sacrifice and the tribal
religion.
	From this last refuge she was driven by the
introduction of the Christian religion, with its
narrow Pauline doctrine, which made woman
mentally and physically the inferior of man,
and lawfully in subjection to him.
	Morgan in his ."Ancient Society," attributes
the premature destruction of ethnic life, in the
societies of Greece and Rome, to their failure to
develop and utilize the mental and moral con-
servative forces of the female intellect, which
were not less essential than those of men to their
progress.
	In closing, I would say that every woman
present must have a new sense of dignity and
self respect, feeling that our mothers during
some periods in the long past have been the
ruling power and that they used that power
for the best interests of humanity. As history
repeats itself, we have every reason to believe
that our turn will come again, it may not be
for woman's supremacy, but for the, as yet un-
tried, experiment of complete equality, when
the united thought of man and woman will
inaugurate a just government, a pure religion,
a happy home, a civilization at last in which
ignorance, poverty and crime will exist no
more.


