HOW DO WE STAND?

	We find that in all the business affairs of life,
it is well to look over our accounts occasionally
and see how we stand. Well this being proper
in temporal matters is it not necessary to do the
same in the spiritual? I think so, and ask our-
selves, are we improving, as age and experience
should develop? In conversing with a friend I
am told this Gospel is the same precious gift

[Column 2]
that it ever was, the greatest comfort and conso-
lation, the one thing needful, the Pearl of great
Price? and she is proud of this Gospel.
	I feel to say the same with her with the excep-
tion of being proud; this to me is a fearful word
to use in spiritual matters and not becoming to
saints on any terms.
	In the first place we did not make this religion,
we embraced it, believing it to be exactly the
same that Jesus taught, and as we live in ac-
cordance with its teachings we know it is; be-
cause when we serve Him in all humility and
truth, then the Lord can show us His power to
do those things for us which are expedient, then
we are thankful we are happy and rejoice in the
gifts of the Gospel and the Apostle says again
I say rejoice! But does he say be proud. Are
humility and pride offsprings of the same parent?
Can both dwell in our bosoms at the same time.
	Not if I understand the word. Noah Webster
defines pride as being inordinate self-esteem;"
admitting this how quickly will vanity take
possession of our minds. Beside what does the
Apostle tell us in 2nd Corinthians 10 chap.and 15-
16-17 verses "Not boasting of things without our
measure, that is of other men's labors; but hav-
ing a hope when your faith is increased we shall
be enlarged by you, &c."	And in the 16 verse,
"boast not of another man's line of things made
to our hand;" 17th he says "He that glorieth let
him glory in the Lord."
	In my opinion, when we contemplate the two,
pride and humility, we find quite a difference.
When pride has possession of our minds, we are
so self-reliant that we do not fully appreciate the
aid of Divine assistance, we hurry on and make
mistakes until we see ourselves as we are, poor
dependent creatures. Then we can humble our-
selves and ask for aid and assistance, which the
humble saint will always receive; for then, and
not until then, do we feel our dependence. No
we have "power within ourselves, and must use
it."
	The prophet Mormon shows this so clearly, I
will here speak of his illustration. He had pre-
viously been speaking of the great battle at the
hill Cumorah. The Prophet Mormon in his
writings said he did not wish to harrow up the souls
of men, in casting before them the awful scene of
blood and carnage which was laid before his
eyes; but knowing that these things must surely
be made known, and that all things that are hid
must be revealed upon the house tops." I will
write a small abridgement.
	He also says in another place, "Thrice have I
delivered them out of the hands of their enemies
and they have not repented of their sins; but
they had sworn by all that man had been for-
bidden to swear, by the Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, they would go up to their enemies to
battle and avenge themselves of the blood of their
brethren; behold the voice of the Lord came to
me saying; "vengance is mine I will repay, and
because this people repented not, after I had de-
livered them, behold they shall be cut off from
the face of the earth."	Then Mormon refused to
be their leader, yet he mourns over their fall.
He said, "They, once a delightsome people, and
they had Christ for their shepherd; yea, they
were led by God the Father.	But now behold
they had Christ for their shepherd; yea, they
were led by God the Father. But now behold
they are led about by Satan, even as chaff is
driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed
about upon the waves, without a sail or an anchor
even as she is, so are they.
	Now look at the contrast, even like that of king
Solomon who had been so greatly blessed  with
wisdom when in possession of God's spirit,but too
self-reliant thinking this spirit was his, no matter
what course he pursued, He forgot the word of
the Lord given through His prophet Moses say-
ing that "Thou shalt not go into those idolatrous
nations; and they shall not come unto you." He
ventured to go, and what was the result, he lost

[Column 3]
the good spirit, and then all was vanity and vexa-
tion of spirit. As we learn to appreciate health
by having the opposite, in the same way we learn
all the lessons of life, and also learn that we need
wisdom's heavenly voice, to guide us.
	Dignity and self-respect, I believe to be a boon
that we inherit from the Deity our Father in
heaven. And by its purifying influence, we ask
Him for intelligence, yes, a wise and understand-
ing heart to make all the lessons of life profit-
able to us. You can learn from reading history
that those who were wise and prosperous rulers
had a great respect for the Deity, and could rely
upon the inspiration of this good spirit, and be
blessed by it, and bless others also.
	But in my opinion pride is as different from
this as day is from night, for by it we allow
foolish and vain fancies to take possession of our
minds which dignity and self-respect would for-
bid. For instnace, we fancy we must keep up
with the spirit of the times, or not be popular;
while dignity and self-respect teach us, that to
be honorable or honest, upright and true to our
convictions of that which is right or (righteous
as you may choose to call it) will command re-
spect from every honest-hearted person.
	And why should we mourn the loss of those
who are not of this class.
	May we learn the difference between these two
qualities is the prayer of your Aged Friend
