		CHARLOTT PERKINS STETSON.


[Column 1]
﻿	THE SILENT SEVEN.
	[From Mrs. Lide Meriwether's Address
before the National American Woman Suff-
rage Association, Feb. 1891.]
	In this great and good government of ours,
this so-called free republic, there are seven
classes of people who have no voice in the
government, viz: minors, aliens, paupers,
criminals, lunatics, idiots, and women. If a
man is known by the company he keeps,
women must draw their own conclusions from
this list.
	First on the list come minors. It is deemed
essential that the novitiate should spend some
years of his life in the study of political ques-
[Column 2]
tions. Therefore no boy can cast a ballot
until he is twenty-one years old. But the girl
beside him may go on in years until she reach-
es seventy-one,and yet never reach her political
majority. And yet although a woman never
grows up, if she have a son that goes astray,
from the whole region round about goes up the
cry, "why didn't his mother train him better?"
	The next class of political mutes are aliens,
but a residence of five years endows them with
the faculty of speech, and in this case we find
that every politician practically has his adver-
tisement out-"full science of American poli-
tics taught in one lesson," and that lesson so
simple that a fool may understand it. More-
over, our politicians have reached such a
sublime height of patriotism that, instead of
requiring renumeration from their pupils, they
bestow it upon them, in the shape of schooners
of beer. quarts of the genuine American
liquid or its equivalent in United States cur-
rency. This however, applies only to the male
foreigner. His wife and daughter, you will
remember, are and will remain political aliens.
	The third incapable stands on the statute
books yclept pauper.
	A man, who is incapable of earning his own
bread is held-in some of our States-unfit to
have a voice in making the law, or choosing
the law-makers. But why should all Ameri-
can women be classed with this individual?
Are our women all paupers?	
	In the little State of Massachusetts, 251,158
women are earning their own living; in New
York city, 200,000, and all these outside of
domestic service. And besides these we find
14,465 women at the head of commercial
houses, 2,136 architects and chemists, 216
stock raisers and ranchers, 56,800 farmers
and planters, and employed in other bread
winning occupations, over 3,500,000. Are
these to be classed with paupers?
	Next on the list of the voiceless, stands the
unpardoned criminal. All right that he 
should be denied the law making power; but
why the women of this land should be kneaded 
up wholesale into the same batch with him is
one of the things in the philosophy of the
American politics that "passeth all under-
standing," all the statistics show that our
prisons are filled with male criminals,with only
one here and there of the other sex. Is this
the reason women are placed in the same list?
	Fifth, in this complimentary catalogue
comes the lunatic. The man or woman whose
reasoning power is destroyed, has, surely, no
right to the law-making power. But are all
American women lunatics, or first cousins to
that festive individual? If you go into the
lunatic asylums of this country and count
noses, you will find that the masculine nose
predominates to a startling degree. If you
look outside you will then find it rather a
puzzling task to trace the borderland between
sanity and insanity. But suppose you inquire,
which sex muddles itself most with strong
drink; which most uses the nasty brown weed?
If practices like these denote level headedness,
then I am free to confess that the masculine
half of society is the sane half, but if the
opposite be true the scale containing the
the women will tip the beam every time.
	Sixth and last, save one on the list of the
silent seven, stands the idiot, and on our
statute books, woman stands next to him, and
at the foot of the class. Do 558 women
journalists, 320 authors, 2,061 artists, 13,182
professional musicians, 5,134 government
clerks, 2,438 physicians and surgeons, 175
lawyers, 265 ordained ministers, half-a-million
teachers and three million independent bread
winners in other avocations denote idiocy. If
so I give up my case. But, if I have given 
any proof that American womanhood has no
title to be reckoned up,with this intelligent,re-
fined and capable crowd, then why should he.
[Column 3]
only governmental privileges be those of be-
ing taxed, tried, fined, imprisoned, and hung
by a jury of men.
	Let us be logical or die.


