MILLARD CO., W. S. A.

	The W. S. A.  of Millard Co., over which
I have the honor to preside; and which I was
delegated to represent at the N. A. W. S.Conven-
tion, is one of which I am proud, and I think
justly so, for we have a large membership list,
and many interesting and instructive meetings
are held, where subjects are discussed of deep
interest to the higher education, and better
social status of woman.  In the two years of
my presidency I have met but four individuals
belonging to the county who expressed them-
selves, opposed to woman having the full right
to the suffrage and equal rights in all social
and political matters with men.  And while
we call ourselves the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation, we take a broader, more liberal view,
and ask that the same right should be ex-
tended to every citizen of every country, in-
dependent of creed or color.  And while much
is written, and said about the Indian, and his
right to the suffrage of which many would de-
bar him, we would freely accord to him all
the rights, we as women, demand for our-
selves.  Is he not the rightful owner of the
soil of America?  are we the intruders, or is he?
surely we are the usurpers; he was here when
Columbus landed, and for how long before
who shall attempt to say.  It is fashionable to
laugh at his ignorance and sneer at his primi-
tive manners.  How long is it since the un-
tutored ancestors of our vaunted civilization
were as rude and uncultured as he?.
	Immense sums are annually expended upon
foreign missions; let some of this mission work
be done at home; devote some of the funds
for the clothing and educating of the red
man.  Have him taught a trade or otherwise
employ him,and he will soon be able to clothe
himself, and provide for his own wants, be-
come a useful member of society and repay
us many times over for what we have done
for him.  The negro is another stumbling
block, and eye-sore to many.  Has he not al-
ready suffered enough at the hands of the
white man?  should not his freedom be full
and complete?  it was dear enough purchased,
let us not curtail it.  Freedom should be given
with no niggard hand.  Make the qualifica-
tions for the suffrage an educational one, to
the extent Wyoming has, if you will; keep it
from the criminal if you choose, otherwise ex-
tend it to ALL, especially to woman.
	How is it that men, who love freedom so
well, withhold it from their mothers, wives
sisters and daughters?  Is it from jealousy or
cowardice?  They know that woman's percep-
tion is quick to discern, that she will soon dis-
cover the "right man, for the right place;" they
know that drink will not corrupt, or money
purchase her vote; do they fear to subject
themselves to the test?  I have never yet heard
a man give a valid reason for witholding the
suffrage from woman, nor do I think they can
find one.
	The time is not far distant when the con-
cession will be forced from them, why not give
it at once, gracefully, and earn the thanks of
the women of all nations, rather than wait,
and be told, "to you no thanks are due, for
you were compelled to be just to our sex."
