RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	Afternoon session convened in the Assembly
Hall, President Zina D. H. Young presiding; be-
side her Counselors and the Secretaries, several
other ladies from a distance were seated on the
stand, and Apostles F. D. Richards and F. M.
Lyman favored the sisters with their presence
during the afternoon. Meeting opened with
singing "O, ye Mountains High" &c. prayer by
Dr. E. S. Barney, singing, "We Thank Thee O
God for a Prophet," President Adeline
Barber reported Cache Stake. Counselor Ann
Pulsifer reported Emery Stake, Pres. Mary
Pitchforth, Juab Stake, Pres. Susan Grant,Davis
Stake, these organizations were all spoken
of as in good condition and a good
spiritual influence prevailing among the sisters.
Dr. R. B. Pratt spoke for a few minutes thought
we had enjoyed a spiritual feast, wondered if we
were grateful enough for the privileges we
enjoyed, said we had many precious promises
made to us, and we might bring them to pass if
we lived for them and asked for it,—illustrated
her idea by a beautiful field of wheat, that we first
had to prepare the ground then sow the seed,
water and tend it, work to make it bring forth the
golden grain. We need the spiritual as well as
the temporal, without spiritual food we get hard
and dark, and then we have to get down on our
knees and beseech the Lord to help us, and by
our humility we feel softened and tender, then
we can have the holy Spirit. Dr. Pratt also
spoke in behalf of the Hospital, its needs and
that every little gift would be acceptable. Coun-
selor B. W. Smith referred to the first organiza-
tion of the Relief Society, to the teachings and
instructions of Joseph Smith, and the work the
sisters accomplished in that early day for the
poor, the sick, the distressed, the dying and the
dead; said many things that were mysterious to
to us then are now as plain as day; we have
grown wiser and more intelligent in many things;
there were more evil spirits to contend with then
than there are now.
	Pres. Elvira Harrison of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Malad Stake represented the Relief Society of
that Stake. Stake secretary Mary E. Snow,
represented Box Elder Stake.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman addressed the congre-
gation, said Pres. Woodruff had intended to
come and had a great desire to come, but had
been prevented; alluded to the preaching in the
Priesthood Meeting that had been held in the
morning, and the teachings in regard to fast
offerings, and the great assistance the Relef
Society would be if these things were properly
regulated. If all the Latter-day Saints observed
the Fast Day, the donations would be of great
benefit to the poor, and their cries would not go
up into the ears of the Lord, and angels would
smile upon those who performed these duties and
requirements, and a blessing would surely follow;
realized that the Relief Society formed an impor-
tant part of the Church. Referred to the neces-
sity of all working in harmony in the Society,
and counseled the sisters to be exemplary in their

[Column 2]
lives, and in all their ways and the peace of the
Lord would abide with them.
	Pres. Josephine Textonius of Leamington re-
ported Millard Stake. The Cor. Sec. then read
encouraging letters from Bannock, Beaver, Paro-
wan, Sevier, Kanab and St. Joseph Stakes.
	Apostle F. D. Richards expressed himself
pleased that the sisters felt to come out to the
General Conference and also to have a Con-
ference of their own, was aware that some of them
had come long distances and hoped they had en-
joyed the time and would feel paid for coming;
the work they were now doing was only a small
part of the greater things that would be expected
and would require all the strength of those en-
gaged in it, and spiritual intelligence would be
needed. The subjects introduced in the meeting
by Brother Lyman in regard to fast-offerings had
been given to the brethren of the priesthood in
their meeting which had convened that
morning. Pres. Richards continued by saying
the Lord expects and is going to require greater
works for us, the Savior said to his disciples
"greater because I go to my Father;" we all had
a natural tendency to look downward but we
should look upward and press onward. The
speaker then related the story of Ahab the
wicked king in a graphic manner that illustrated
a truth he wanted to impress upon the minds of
his hearers.
	"Your society, he said, had some delegates to
represent you in the Woman's National Council
at Washington last winter,their proceedings will
be published and have been already in the current
papers, and will be in the official pamphlet of the
Council when it is issued.
	We can't always dwell in swaddling clothes,
we haven't yet arrived at our manhood and wo-
manhood in all its glory. . Let the graces and
virtues of the Gospel blend with the good and the
bright women of the world, and if you keep the
good spirit and have a little salt to season those
who have not the grace of God and His spirit,
you may accomplish great good.
	"Evolutions and mutations are constantly bring-
ing about great changes and wonderful things,
and we shall have greater still before long. If
the sisters had not had the Relief Society many
would have been ready to lay down and die. It
has been a great spiritual blessing as well as giv-
ing help and comfort to the needy and distressed;
keep the Holy Spirit that quickens and purifies,
the swift waters, clear the stream and it does not
stagnate,disobedience to the Holy Spirit grieves it
from us.
	"The angel told Joseph his name should be
known for good and for evil throughout the earth
and so will we as a people; we are going to
shine before the world, Zion is increasing, the
bees are swarming, and every hive has to swarm;
the spirit of increase has been given to this peo-
ple and is taken from the world." Pres.Richards
also spoke earnestly of the importance of the
work for the redemption of the dead, and advised
those who were present to take home a little of
the good spirit and influence and teachings that
they had received and give it to their neighbors and
friends and take it to the local meetings that those
who had not the privilege of attending might
participate in some of its benefits.
	Counselor B. W. Smith occupled a few mo-
ments in speaking and prophesied concerning the
prosperity of Zion.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards addressed the
congregation briefly, alluding to the invitation
extended to President Woodruff and how feel-
ingly he had expressed himself in regard to the
Relief Society and his desire to be with them at
the meeting, but his absence was wholly unavoid-
able. He sent them his blessing and regrets that
he could not attend. Sister Richards said the
President as he held her hand said;"I'm very sorry

[Column 3]
I can't go but tell them God bless them and I
bless them, they have my blessing." Sister
Richards spoke tenderly to the mothers and said
she realized how difficult it often was for them to
leave home, to attend their meetings even though
they needed the instruction.
	Sister Zina gave the testimony of Pres. Young
in regard to the mothers paying tithing and
added this fast day work, given here to-day re_
minded her of Pres. Young's teachings on the sub-
ject of tithing. Urged the mothers to teach this
little ones at home tell them Bible stories that
will teach them spiritual lessons. She blessed
all the sisters and said peace to your households,
wear the beautiful mantle of charity God bless
you all, Amen.
	Conference adjourned for six months. Singing
"Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah,"
Benediction by Apostle F. D. Richards.


