[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 6 | Fiction | The Golden | Chain Chapter]
[The Golden Chain Chapter]
Synopsis: Nora Blake, a schoolteacher in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and is astonished to learn secretly that he cannot read. She offers to teach him, and Jed accepts her instruction. Being informed that good virgin land is available, Nora takes up a homestead. One of her neighbors is Old Free, a mysterious hermit, and a non-Mormon. When Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza, Nora learns significant gospel principles from the funeral talks and the attitude of the Shepherds. "I came as soon as I could," Jed said. "'Ben was sick today. He said you wanted to drive out to the Lang place. Hope you won't mind riding with me instead of Ben." "Why, no, that is... Stopped, flustered. She pretended to busy herself in her top desk drawer. As she did so, her hand came upon the scrap of paper she had picked up, following the spelling match. She held it out to him. Jed glanced at it, crumpled it tighter, and tossed it into the wastebasket. "Here,"'she cried. "Don't throw that away! That's my proof." 2' Nora 522 The et Bole Chain Hazel M. Thomson Chapter 6 "Proof? Of what?" "That you really did know how to spell obfuscate." She glanced at him. Something in his eyes stopped her from pursuing the matter further. "I'll get my things," she said. "I'll only be a moment." On the road, the May afternoon sunshine was delightful. A slight breeze stirred Nora's brown hair, curling it around her face. Jed kept his team to a walk. "I've been waiting for a chance like this, Nora,"' he said. Nora! Not Miss Blake, but Nora! "I want to tell you a story. You probably have no idea what you have done for me, in teaching me to read. I want you to know how it was that I never learned before." Nora was silent, waiting for him to begin. Jed reached down into the bottom of the buggy and pushed an empty grain sack under the seat. "Y remember doing that as a boy a good many times," he said, "pushing the grain sack down out of sight. Once when it was about half empty, I hid it under my saddle in the bottom of the wagon so Pa wouldn't be tempted to sell if for a grubstake. I'd seen him start off in search of gold often enough. I knew it meant trading something for food, but it would not be' the seed grain not if I could help it.