[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 512 | Fiction | Woman's Sphere | Ramona Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona Cannon]

She is a world traveler, a horticulturist, and a noted antiquary. She is a daughter of Charles William Post of the famous food company which made the first recipe for Postum (from wheat, molasses, and bran), and developed many other wheat products known throughout the world. == ) i SS Lenora Hansen The hospital had a large waiting room downstairs, where "Information" sat behind a high marble counter and visitors gathered in groups and were strangers to each other. But, in the little waiting room upstairs, people sat beside each other and smiled and shared case histories and small talk. I remember when the lady with gold hair came in. I was sitting toward the left, on the long couch, thinking that the world outside the hospital seemed muffled and shadowy and that only the world inside seemed real. I was thinking that I felt close to each of these people, whose names I didn't even know, but with whom I shared that little room the man with the mustache, whose wife had cancer; the lady with gray hair, whose husband was paralyzed; the parents and the grandparents of the child who had had an operation on her throat; and the very young couple, she like a blond child, crying about her baby, and he, with a scant dark beard, trying awkwardly to comfort her. As the lady with the gold hair came in, the father of the girl with the chest case moved to a chair, leaving space on the couch for both the woman and the man who followed her. She sat, not on the couch, but in the chair by the door, apart. She crossed taut, slender legs and laid her hands together in her lap. She sat still and straight. The man who followed moved the remaining chair out of its corner between the long and the short couches, and placed it in the narrow walking space, facing the woman. They seemed withdrawn, as if a blanket of air insulated them from all the others in the room. The man looked at the woman quietly. "Can I...?"' "No!" she cut him off cold and flat. What was it. He had meant to offer? They sat in silence. Conversation resumed around them. After a little time, she stood up and walked out into the hall. He followed. The father of the burn case was telling us how to feed roses to get the largest blooms, when I heard the voice of the Gold Lady again.