[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 504 | Special Feature | Sewing Machines for the Pelotas Branch, Brazil | Spencer W. Kimball]
I did not have any idea to whom this gift should go when I received it April 6th, but in September, I was sure who the recipi- Sewing Machines for the Pelotas Branch, Brazil ent should be. It was the Pelotas Relief Society. Pelotas is a fairly large city in the far south of Brazil. In the late summer, Sister Kimball and I, with the president of the mission, Elmo Turner, visited this branch and I dedicated their new chapel. As we looked through the new building to be dedicated on the evening of our arrival, the young president of the branch proudly pointed out the points of interest and especially the very delightful Relief Society room. As he went around the room, he pointed out to us an old used sewing machine which, he said, had been lent to the Relief Society sisters by some kind friend. At once, there came into my mind the gift I had received on April 6th, 1966, and I asked the president, "How much would a new machine cost?" He made an investigation and said, "About $95 American money or about 200,000 cruzeiros," and remembering the dollars I had available from my friend, I authorized the branch president to purchase a machine for the Relief Society and I sent the $95 to the mission president to be given to them for the purchase of the machine. I received word back that when the president of the branch went to pay the merchant for the machine, he asked, ''What is this for?" And the answer was, "For our Relief Society in the Pelotas Branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." Then came other questions, and when the merchant realized the unselfish service rendered by the Relief Society, he said, "I am going to give you forty per cent off." So then this enterprising Relief Society group put on a bazaar and earned enough money which, with the $95, bought them two machines. Since that time, the branch has been divided into two Relief Societies, having two machines, and they are very grateful. The accompanying letter expresses the appreciation to my friend who desires to remain anonymous. Beloved Sister in Christ, The Relief Society sisters of the Pelotas Branch, in Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil, of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, take this opportunity to thank our beloved fellow member for the gift of two sewing machines which we received for our Relief Society, which machines were given to us through Apostle Spencer W. Kimball, at the dedication of our chapel on August 31, 1966, the giver being an unidentified member in the United States. We are extremely happy with this blessing that our Heavenly Father conceded to our Relief Society, in which the beloved member was the instrument of the Lord. We desire for you all the blessings of the Lord, and much health and happiness, in working in his service here on earth. Your gift filled a great lack of sewing machines here in the Relief Society of Pelotas, because we have classes in cutting and sewing clothes but had no machine. The first class has ten sisters and we already have eight enrolled for the second class. We are sending you photos of the bazaar that was held November 21, 1966, showing many clothes sewed on the machines by the Relief Society sisters. We thank you for your kindness and desire that the Lord will bless you always.