[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 510 | Fiction | General Features Editorial: "The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness" | Louise W. Madsen]
[General Features Editorial: "The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness" Louise W. Madsen]

To use her talents and discover new ones, to bring to the fore her innate abilities and add to them, to listen to words of counsel and implement them, this, too, is the: role of a woman. Of greater desirability than diamonds is the ability to buy wisely. "The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her...'' (Proverbs 31:11). Frequently, the actual spending of the food and clothing money is entrusted to the wife. While the guidelines for spending are laid in a carefully planned budget, deliberately tailored to the income, needs, and desires of her particular family, she must use wisdom in every expenditure. Family preparedness requires storage of food, clothing, and other items for future use. One of the cardinal rules in storage is that each family decide what to store. Another rule concerns use and replacement, rotation of items to keep them in good condition. A wise woman plans her shopping with these rules in mind. Of more worth than pearls is a woman who ''worketh willingly with her hands' (Proverbs 31:13), who uses her talents to make her home a heaven and a haven. She who seeks to increase her knowledge of homemaking skills, who learns the basic arts, is prepared to meet the contingencies. Proverbs explains her security in these words, "She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet."'. Better than silver or gold is her ability to save. To economize, to be thrifty, to make do, to keep her yearnings within family earnings, bring the goal of being prepared within reach. Often it becomes the lot of the mother to exercise a restraining hand in the matter of acquiring luxuries. A provident housewife is a blessing to her family. Better than the whole galaxy of precious gems and riches is a woman who knows her responsibilities and fulfills them, who uses her capabilities and increases them, who hears the counsel of those in authority and follows it, whose desire is her family's good and she works for it, and who seeks to be a helpmate to her husband and achieves it. L. W. M. 511