[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 537 | Lesson | Spiritual Living The Lord Will Provide for His Saints | Roy W. Doxey]
[Spiritual Living The Lord Will Provide for His Saints Roy W. Doxey]

spiritually. Preparations for any eventuality, whether individual, local, national, or world-wide, are a part of this over-all plan. THE LAST DAYS When the Angel Moroni visited three times with Joseph Smith the night of September 21-22, 1823, important instructions were given concerning the days in which we live. Moroni referred to a number of prophecies from the Bible that would be _ fulfilled "soon." In addition to the clarification of these prophecies, the important information was given that, beginning with the restoration of the gospel, the last days had begun. Judgments in the form of destructions caused by war and calamities of various kinds would be a part of these days. (D&C 43: 22-27; 45:25-42; 88:87-96) Class Discussion: What makes you believe we are living in the last days? In view of troubled world conditions, what should be your attitude as a Latter-day Saint woman? FACING THE FUTURE Latter-day Saints are the most blessed people upon the earth. 538 There are no other people who have the assurance of security that those do who are faithful to the gospel covenants they have made with the Lord. They have the promise of the Lord: If thou wilt do good, yea, and hold out faithful to the end, thou shalt be saved in the kingdom of God, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God; for there is no gift greater than the gift of salvation (D&C 6:13). TRUST IN GOD; HE WILL PROVIDE The prophet Isaiah said that in the last days a marvelous work and a wonder would be wrought in that, among other things, there - would come an increase in faith that would be equal to all circumstances and needs. Full and complete confidence in the word of the Lord as given anciently and today brings rewards in this life and in the world to come. Early in this dispensation, the Lord told his people, though few in number, that they had no need to fear, but to do good, and, since they were built on his rock, the forces of evil would not overcome them. (D&C 6:34.) And then these words: "Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not" (D&C 6:36). The strength and power which come from the scriptures are illustrated in what Elder John A. Widtsoe said in a general conference about the above passage. I remember reading, when a boy, a helpful passage from the Doctrine and Covenants. Let me read it here in conclusion. As a lad I felt fear, sometimes of men, but more often of the dark outside forces. I often wondered if this persecuted people after all would be able to accomplish all that was pictured in its destiny. Then I found in my reading of the Doctrine and Covenants this passage which has been a joy and a help and a strength to me all my life, for the Lord said to his people in Harmony, Pennsylvania, before the Church was organized: "Therefore, fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail. Behold, I do not condemn you; go your ways and sin no more; perform with soberness the work which I have commanded you. Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not. Behold the wounds which pierced my side, and also the prints of the nails in my hands and feet; be faithful, keep my commandments, and ye shall inherit the kingdom of heaven. Amen" (D&C 6:34-37). What do we care for the slanderer or the liar; what do we care for the enemy who arises to defeat our holy purposes? We have the truth, the mightiest weapon God has given to his people, and we shall win, in the end, if we do the things that God requires us to do (Conference Report, October 1923, p. 27). The Lord has spoken consoling and comforting words to those who will believe in what he has revealed. His gospel is positive and assuring. From a revelation about the law of consecration, the Lord gave these words of assurance and admonition: And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way... (D&C 104:15-16). IN HIS OWN WAY Have you ever fallen into the error of rejecting what the Lord has revealed by replacing his word with your own ideas about what he requires? An example may be the seemingly harmless practice of telling lies to gain advantage when the Lord has condemned this practice. (D&C 42:21; 76: 103-105) Lesson Department "Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life" (Matt. 7:14). Such a pronouncement of the Savior as the need for baptism of water and of the Spirit to obtain salvation, is an example. (John 3:5). His counsel to the people of his dispensation was that he was the Good Shepherd and only through and by him would salvation come. (Ibid. 10:7-9) In the present dispensation he has spoken positively on this subject as follows: Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law, even as I and my Father ordained unto you before the world was? I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord (D&C 132:8-12). The Lord works through his children insofar as they are able to live by his commandments. Class Discussion: Why do you believe the Lord is concerned about the temporal welfare of his saints? TEMPORAL AND SPIRITUAL When the Lord declared that he would provide for his saints, he was referring to their everyday needs. One of the unique doctrines of the Church is that the gospel of Jesus Christ is to be lived daily. Therefore, the Latterday Saint believes that the fulness of blessings comes through daily application of the principles 

539 July 1967

 of the gospel in his life. Not only is the Lord concerned with the spiritual aspects of life and the future existence, but also with one's daily affairs. He has said, "not at any time have I given unto you a law which was temporal [only]. For my commandments are spiritual" (D&C 29:34-35). Consequently, when a Latter-day Saint thinks of preparing for or earning a livelihood or of the multitude of things which must be done in this life, he relates these things to his spiritual welfare. With this philosophy, he then keeps his mind single to God, as commanded. (D&C 88:67-68) Thus we see that, as the member of the Church makes his life a spiritual experience, though involved in some activities that seem to be quite earthy, he knows that his actions should agree daily with the Lord's own way. Class Discussion: In what way is the Lord providing for his people's temporal needs today? THE LAW OF THE FAST Through his prophets the Lord has revealed that the saints should observe the law of the fast. The money not used for the meals not eaten during the fast, should be given to the bishop of the ward for the use of those in need. This amount is known as the fast offering. By this law the Lord is providing for those in his Church who are in need. Although some may be unable to fast, yet all could fulfill a fundamental purpose of the fast to give to the Church for the poor. (Gospel Doctrine, 540 Selections From the Sermons and Writings of Joseph F. Smith, Thirteenth Edition, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, 1963, p. 243). President Joseph F. Smith has also told us that there may be some who are unable to fast: Many are subject to weakness, others are delicate in health and others have nursing babies; of such it should not be required to fast. Neither should parents compel their little children to fast. I have known children to cry for something to eat on fast day. In such cases, going without food will do them no good. Instead, they dread the day to come, and in place of hailing it, dislike it; while the compulsion engenders a spirit of rebellion in them, rather than a love for the Lord and their fellows. Better teach them the principle, and let them observe it when they are old enough to choose intelligently, than to so compel them 4 bid., p. 244). What, then, is the obligation of the Latter-day Saints to this law? The observance of this law is mandatory upon all saints. By this means they are following the Lord's instruction that a certain number of his people are being cared for "in his own way" (D&C 88:68). THE WELFARE PLAN The law of the fast is a part of the greater law the Welfare Plan. In 1936, it was instituted, based on earlier commandments, to take care of those in need. It is a much broader program than the law of the fast which was established earlier in the dispensation. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Said that:.. The Welfare Plan is not the United Order and was not intended to be. However, I should like to suggest to you that perhaps, after all, when the Welfare Plan gets thoroughly into operation it is not so yet we shall not be so very far from carrying out the great fundamentals of the United Order (Conference Report, October 1942, p. 57). Since that day there have been many improvements in that Plan, so much so that the needs of his people who are in want are being provided for "in his own way." Recognizing that the Welfare Plan has come to the Church by revelation, the Latter-day Saint is fulfillmg an obligation to the Lord when he participates in welfare activities. There are some in the Church who desire to help the poor in their own way. This practice should not be discouraged, nevertheless, every Latter-day Saint is under covenant to support the Lord's way. The bishop is the common judge in Israel by divine appointment. (D&C 107:74.) The Lord has placed upon him the mantle of discernment by which he may be able to provide for the needy as the circumstances require. In the Welfare Plan, however, the participant contributes to the common good and not to any one individual only. He places his faith in those who administer welfare orders that they will use their best judgment in taking care of the Lord's own. He is not concerned that the needy person know that he has contributed to his welfare. The Latter-day Saint knows that the Lord knows of his faithfulness. Along these thoughts, Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, gave these instructions: Well, some people say: "I would like to help the poor in my own way." Lesson Department I think we all should help the poor in our own way, but I think likewise we should help the poor in the Lord's way, and the Lord has said so much in so many words: Said he: "And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way; and behold this is the way that I, the Lord, have decreed to provide for my saints, that the poor shall be exalted, in that the rich are made low' (D&C 104: 15, 16.) And then Elder Petersen asked some pertinent questions, as follows: How do we measure up? Are we willing to share by paying fast offerings? Are we willing to share by laboring earnestly in the Church welfare program? Or are we going to drag our feet? Are we selfish? Do we love our neighbors as ourselves? Do we live the way we pray? Are we like the priest and the Levite in the story of the Good Samaritan? Or do we love the Lord our God with all our hearts, realizing that we cannot love God whom we have not seen if we do not love our brother whom we have seen (Conference Report, April 1947, pp. 101, 102). HOME FOOD STORAGE Under the Welfare Plan, there is provision for each family in the Church to provide for itself when emergencies arise. Thrift and industry are cardinal principles of. The gospel plan. The idler is not acceptable to the Lord. (D&C 42: 42.) His latter-day prophets have stressed the need for each Church member to provide for himself. A program to have on hand a year's supply of food, clothing, and other essential commodities is designed so that the families of the Church will have in store one year's supply of necessities to meet such circumstances as unemployment, sickness, and lack of materials when otherwise needed. This plan 

541 July 1967

 also envisions preparation for any calamitous event over which man does not have control, such as floods, earthquake, famine, and war. This program is a part of the Lord's own way in providing for his saints and those who heed this counsel are blessed daily as well as during the times of crises. The application of basic principles of industry by the Church member brings satisfaction and joy as he realizes that he has accepted the Lord's 'own way." Class Discussion: Give some reasons why the Latter-day Saint woman should support the home storage plan. RECAPITULATION IMPLEMENTATION Latter-day Saints know that they are living in the last days when the Lord's word will be fulfilled. Among these calamitous happenings are war and famine. The Lord has said that the day will come when the crops of the earth will be destroyed. (D&C 29:16) In preparation for such calamities, the saints have been warned. They have also been provided with certain laws and programs which will test their faith to see if they believe in the Lord's way. In addition, these laws are designed to fulfill specific covenant obligations which the member has to his fellow man under the general commandment to love his neighbor as himself. For the earth is full, and there is enough and to spare; yea, I prepared all things, and have given unto the children of men to be agents unto themselves. Therefore, if any man shall take of the abundance which I have made, and impart not his portion, according to the law of my gospel, unto the poor and the needy, he shall, with the wicked, lift up his eyes in hell, being in torment (D&C 104:17-18). The living of these laws brings blessings commensurate with the specific law obeyed, and, in keeping the commandments, the member imparts of his substance in the Lord's own way, the Welfare Plan. Furthermore, he knows that by observing the law of the fast, he obtains temporal and spiritual blessings for himself, and, at the same time, he is also imparting of his substance to those in need. And it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it must needs be done in mine own way... (D&C 104:15-16). A THORN BESET Ethel Jacobson Desert charms unfold to those who respect the thorns that shield its beauty.