[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 521 | Fiction | Quilts That Tell a Story | ]
Ca Nee oe: _ > as A ess ry Re) \ ra 9 lasted Ng es a ( eel ' QUILTS THAT TELL A STORY Elizabeth Hales Hammond, Springville, Utah, makes original and effective use of form and color in making quilts, then she adds a new dimension a design that tells a story. For a child's bed, animals appear upon the quilt, or faces of children, dolls, or toys. A ''Nature'' quilt presents birds and flowers, or a stylized design based upon a sunflower pattern or a tulip cup, with various leaves and tendrils. Sister Hammond is skillful in appliqu work and in piecing quilts, but the art that gives her the greatest sense of accomplishment is her work with fabric paints, which she uses for radiant color and pleasing harmony. Her butterfly wall hangings and her intricate smocking work for pillows, as well as netting and crocheted articles, have given her much admiration as a ''most versatile artist." Sister Hammond has held positions of leadership in the Church auxiliary organizations since 1918, and her devotion to her three daughters, her grandchildren, and great-grandchildren reminds those who know her of the Biblical description of a woman whose children ''arise up, and call her blessed." 521 Synopsis: Nora Blake, a schoolteacher in Banner, Idaho, lives in the home of Bishop Shepherd and becomes acquainted with a Latter-day Saint family. She meets Jed Oliver, a local rancher, and is astonished to learn secretly that he cannot read. She offers to teach him, and Jed accepts her instruction. Being informed that good virgin land is available, Nora takes up a homestead. One of her neighbors is Old Free, a mysterious hermit, and a non-Mormon. When Trudy Shepherd dies of influenza, Nora learns significant gospel principles from the funeral talks and the attitude of the Shepherds. "I came as soon as I could," Jed said. "'Ben was sick today. He said you wanted to drive out to the Lang place. Hope you won't mind riding with me instead of Ben." "Why, no, that is... Stopped, flustered. She pretended to busy herself in her top desk drawer. As she did so, her hand came upon the scrap of paper she had picked up, following the spelling match. She held it out to him. Jed glanced at it, crumpled it tighter, and tossed it into the wastebasket. "Here,"'she cried. "Don't throw that away! That's my proof."