[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 506 | Fiction | Trapped Gail | A. Jorgensen]
Signed Maria Martinez Blanco, President da Azambuja Guido, lst Counselor Iracema Fagundes, 2nd Counselor Dilza Dannemberg, Secretary 505 Gail A. Jorgensen The sound came again, sharp like the sound of. A gun. I paused, while loading my arms with fruit bottles to carry into the basement, to listen. I told myself, it must be my imagination. If anyone was outside, Rags would be barking his head off. I will just take the rest of these bottles into the basement before I go looking to see what is wrong, I thought. If I stop now I may not get them downstairs for some time. It surely can't be anything or Rags would be barking. I picked up the last bottle from the floor, and started back down the basement stairs. Halfway down, I paused, remembering. Rags had been barking. His bark had sounded muffled and far off from the basement. I put my armload of bottles down on the stairsteps and started back upstairs to investigate. A heavy footstep sounded on the porch. The kitchen door crashed into the wall. Footsteps crossed the kitchen and entered the living room. Paul never slams doors, I 506 thought. Besides, he went to town for milker parts. He can't possibly be back this early. It is. Too early for the school bus. It will not be here for another hour. A feeling of apprehension filled me with fear. Goose flesh covered my arms, and my spine was pricked by a cold chill. I stepped backwards down the steps. The footfalls grew fainter as the intruder searched through the boys' room. I knew where he was, for I could hear the closet doors bang. Realizing that in a few moments our bedroom, where the trap door to the basement was located, would be entered, I moved instinctively. Reaching up, I undid the leather thong that held the trap door upright against the wall. Holding the door with both hands, I backed slowly downwards, lowering the door into place, where it became part of the floor above me. Automatically, I snapped out the electric light globe. It is lucky he didn't come into this room first, I thought. In the semidarkness, I moved cautiously back into the basement until the fruit shelves on the east wall let me know I had gone as far as I could go. I felt along the - shelves until I reached the southeast corner. Moving a stack of bushel baskets away from the corner, I made a place for me to hide. Gradually my eyes became accustomed to the eerie half-light the small window in the west wall allowed. That window is awfully small. We need more light down here. Still we were lucky to have room enough for even one this size when we dug this basement. Old houses don't take easily to remodeling, I mused, while my ears searched diligently for any sound upstairs. Overhead, I heard the footsteps return to the kitchen. A masculine voice said, ''Nothing in there. Keep a sharp lookout while I search the rest of the house." The words of the morning's news commentator came vaguely back. "Two convicts have broken out of the penitentiary. One guard dead. These men are dangerous." It can't be they. We are a long way from the penitentiary, my thoughts protested, while admitting to myself that this is the day of fast cars. My reflections were cut short by a squeaking hinge on the bedroom door above. The feet advanced to the wall closet. Hangers squealed as they were shuffled about. Then a man's gruff laugh sounded. A second pair of feet hurried across the floor to join the first. Mentally, I could see our guns Trapped racked up on the back wall of the closet. On the shelf above were our boxes of shells. There was a good deal of chuckling going on overhead. Suddenly, the floor door creaked and light from the room above fell on the basement steps. "Well, what do you know, a ready-made hiding place." A man's feet began descending the stairs. One foot struck some bottles of fruit I had left on the steps. The bottles rolled and thumped their way to the bottom of the steps. "Someone left bottles on the steps." "Ain't no need of you going down there. It's just a fruit cellar. When the door's down it's a floor. You close and open it from the top. Won't be nobody down there," a second voice said. The feet hesitated. I held my breath. "Close the door. Ain't no need of us hiding anywhere. We'll wait up here where it is comfortable and catch the family when they come home. With them as hostages, we can make our plans later. Maybe even make them drive us clear out of the country." "Say, that's right. They won't even know we are here till they walk in on us. I'll go hide that dog we shot. Dead dogs tell no tales if they can't be seen."" Chuckling, he let the door drop back into place. The feeling of relief, at being unnoticed, was quickly replaced by a greater fear. Poor Rags! Then, as the helplessness of our position became clear, I thought, poor us! My thoughts began to race hostage, my family for a hostage! 

507 July 1967

 How can I warn them without giving my hiding place away? This window is away from the road, so I cannot hope to attract anyone's attention. The boys will be coming home on the school bus within an hour. Paul won't be home till later. It is up to me to protect the boys, but what can I do? One thing I was sure of, I would have to warn the boys, but how? Feeling my way carefully, lest I trip over some unseen object, I made my way to the window. It was new pinewood, freshly painted, a proud addition to our new basement. The cement wall we had added fit the window like a glove. The metal chain that let the window fall forward, for ventilation, was securely fastened to the frame. If I had a knife or something to work with all the tools were upstairs in their cabinet. We had stated, firmly, that the basement was too damp for tools. A feeling of complete helplessness engulfed me, defeated before starting, because I had nothing with which to work. I leaned against the cement wall, and tears of rage and hopelessness cruised silently down my cheeks. I hung onto the window, tried pulling and shoving, to no avail. The screen would have to be cut. All I could see were fruit jars and empty baskets. I had to have a knife. A knife? A sudden tap on the stair frame, and I held the jagged top of a fruit jar in my hand. I felt on the floor for pieces. They were sticky and slick with fruit juice. Upending the fruit baskets on 508 each other to make a platform of sorts, enabled me to get closer to the window screen. Pushing with all my strength, I drew the jagged edge of glass across the screen. The screen gave a low sigh of protest, not loud, but definitely a sound. I would have to chance their not noticing the noise. Again and again, I drew the glass edges over the wire. The glass crumbled away in glass sawdust. The screen took on a shine from the repeated rubbings. Seconds ran away with themselves, while minutes seemed to drag. I worked on, not daring to think of time, nor of its passing. The blood from my cut fingers mingled with the fruit juice and made the glass hard to hold. Just as I despaired of ever getting out, I noticed a tiny hole, a hole which grew larger as I rudely forced the jagged glass into i. Gradually, the hole grew large enough to let me stick my thumb out. "Heavenly Father, help me," I prayed. "I have to get out faster than this." I had no idea how long I had been working. It seemed like ages. I grabbed the screen to tear it. My hands slipped off, leaving a bloody smear. Why, I am bleeding, I thought. Funny you could cut yourself and not really notice it. The hopelessness of my situation hit me with full force, and I sank to the floor and buried my face in my hands. I prayed silently, but the feeling of relief and hope did not come. Shifting my weight on cramped legs, I put my hand on the floor to steady myself. A cold thin object touched my fingers, the broken blade of a hacksaw. In my mind's eye, I saw our nine-year-old son's woebegone face. "I was being awfully careful, Daddy." Then I heard his Daddy's reply as he inserted a new blade in the saw for his son, "Well, try a little harder." He ruffled up the tousled hair before he turned back to finish the basement window. The six-inch piece of blade made short work of the screen. A few moments longer, and the chain was in two pieces. It took a great deal of effort to pull me up through the window. Halfway out, I froze. The sound of our old truck starting, sounded loud in my ears. I lay there, half in, half out, my hands grasping the dirt in front of me for support. "Hey, we don't have to wait for anybody. There is a key in this truck." "Get back in here," called a sharp voice. "We wouldn't get anywhere before somebody would report it stolen. Come on, here comes a...." Then I heard it, the school bus, its motor pulling heavily as it climbed the hill to our place. With superhuman effort, I pulled myself free and stood up. I heard the kitchen door slam. The bus turned into our drive. The door opened and the largest boy stepped out. Then I was running and screaming, "Get back in. Get back in!" across the lawn, directly in line of a shot, should they choose to shoot. "Get in!" I shoved in the startled boy, and noticed the bloody smear I left on his jacket. "Get in, and hurry and go." I sank down on the bus floor and Trapped pulled a little schoolgirl off the seat into my lap. "You children get down off the seats; they might shoot." _ There was a great grinding of gears and racing of the motor, as the startled bus driver seemed to get the gearshift into all the gears at once. The bus backed slowly out of the drive, then shot forward down the road, the bus door still partly open. "Somebody had better tell Paul," I said. "He has gone to town." The roar of the engine sounded deafening in my ears. "I don't believe they are going to shoot," I murmured, and promptly fainted. Somewhere, a long way off, I heard voices. Why, I was in bed! What a nasty dream. I moved restlessly, running my hands up over my face. "I have gloves on." A voice said, "She is coming out of it. Everything is fine. A handful of cuts, but mostly shock. She will be all right." "You left the keys in the truck."" The daylight was blinding. "Thank goodness!" Paul said, "The truck is gone." "But your insurance won't cover cases where keys are left in stolen cars." "Old trucks don't move very fast. They will get picked up somewhere. Besides, you're safe, and they aren't holed up in our place any more. We could have wrecked the place getting them out." A feeling of contentment and thanksgiving flooded over me. "I did wreck the basement window." Then I added hastily, "But it is nothing that you cannot fix." 509 510 The Woman's Role in Family Preparedness EDITORIAL # The woman whose "'price is far above rubies' (Proverbs 31:10), the costliest gems, ''looketh well to the ways of her household"' (Ibid. 27). For years the Brethren have taught the value of family preparedness. Much emphasis is again being laid upon the need for families to plan the use of their incomes to provide for savings, for storage of food, clothing, and other items necessary to meet any emergency. The conservation and wise use of resources, the need for family members to make the most of educational opportunities, the development of a forward-looking approach to living are constantly being stressed. Women have a role in implementing these teachings as they carry their household responsibilities. Of more value than emeralds is a woman who creatively can plan, with her husband and family, for the present and the future. While family preparedness is in reality a project for the whole family's planning together, with the father in the guiding position, still it is the mother who brings many of the plans to fruition. It is necessary to work the plan that will enable the family to have the security of being prepared to meet what may befa
