President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. By James E. Talmage, of the Council of the Twelve Apostles
On the sixth of April—a day notable for auspicious events in the annals of the Church and in world history—Elder J. Reuben Clark, Jr., was sustained by vote of the people to be Second Counselor in the First Presidency. The occasion was that of the opening session of the spring conference of 1933, officially known as the One Hundred and Third Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Elder Clark was ordained a High Priest and set apart to this exalted calling under the hands of President Heber J. Grant, President Anthony W. Ivins and eleven members of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, in the Salt Lake Temple on Thursday, April 13, President Grant being voice in the sacred ordinance. In this way—the way prescribed through divine revelation—the highest quorum of the organized Priesthood was made complete by the installation of a successor to the late President Charles W. Nibley, whose call from mortality came on December 11, 1931.
As to the constitution of this presiding body, the revealed word is thus specific and definite: "Of the Melchizedek Priesthood, three Presiding High Priests, chosen by the body, appointed and ordained to that office, and upheld by the confidence, faith and prayer of the church, form a quorum of the Presidency of the Church."
As a people we believe implicitly in the actuality of inspiration and its higher manifestation, revelation, in the selection and nomination of men for positions of presiding authority. We speak of the honor attaching to office in the Priesthood—and rightly so, for a call to such position is a definite expression of confidence and righteous esteem on the part of the nominating authority and of the voting membership. Then, if the call be in accord with the divine will, we do but honor him whom the Lord delights to honor. But with the honor is commensurate responsibility, together with an exacting accountability. The personal realization of the obligation imposed by his new calling was fitly expressed by President Clark in his address before the conference. These are his words:
"I am keenly aware of and am deeply grateful for the great honor the people have bestowed upon me. I am also aware that a responsibility equally great comes with that honor. May I say that just now I am thinking more about the responsibility than about the honor.
"Should any of you have hopes about my work in this high office to which I am called, I trust I shall not too much disappoint you. If any of you have misgivings, I can only say that your misgivings can hardly be greater than my own. I am keenly conscious of my own deficiencies. I come late in life to a new work."
No one who is acquainted with President Clark and his life of strenuous service will construe that last sentence of the quoted paragraph to mean that he comes late to a participation in Church activities. It was the writer's privilege to know him well in his youth and to follow him in his work through early manhood to present maturity in his sixty-second year, and moreover, to observe with gladsome satisfaction his devotion to Church duties in both letter and spirit throughout his career. Before professional and official duties came with insistent demands that kept him for years away from home, he was a prominent worker in the Church, especially in Sunday School and Mutual Improvement Association service. In his home ward, the Twentieth, Ensign Stake, his effective service in Sunday School affairs is an enduring feature of ward history. His efficiency in Mutual Improvement work brought about his appointment to the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association in 1925, and in this capacity he has served well down to the present. While away from the stakes and wards of the Church he and every member of his splendid family have given their best efforts to the several mission branches with which they have been temporarily associated. Furthermore, Brother Clark has been and is a profound student of both the history and doctrines of the Church and he is justly recognized as one of our able theologians.
Among his distinguishing characteristics are an unusual capacity and an indomitable desire for work. And whatsoever he has undertaken to do, in Church or secular undertakings, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he has done with the full force of his virile and irresistible energy. A mighty man has taken his place among the leaders of this people.
Among his fellows and associates, from the status of college student to that of United States Ambassador, he has always been prominent and generally eminent. He is equipped by practical experience in many capacities, such as school teacher and principal, research specialist at Columbia University, and he has filled a succession of offices in ascending grade and increasing importance connected with the national Department of State. For such readers as delight to consider details of dates and data, the following will be of interest—taken from Who's Who in Government, Volume 2, 1932 edition, with minor inclusions from Who's Who in America, Volume 13:
CLARK, JOSHUA REUBEN, Jr.; Ambassador to Mexico, born September 1, 1871, Grantsville, Utah; son of Joshua Reuben and Mary Louisa (Woolley) Clark; educated at Latter-day Saints College; University of Utah, B. S., 1898; Columbia, LL. B., 1906; married Luacine A. Savage, September 14, 1898; four children, Louise (Mrs. Mervyn S. Bennion), Marianne (Mrs. Ivor Sharp), J. Reuben, and Luacine Savage. Acting Principal Southern Branch of State Normal School, Utah, 1901-2. Admitted to N. Y. Bar 1905. Assistant Prof. Of Law, George Washington University, 1907-8. Assistant Solicitor, Department of State, 1906-10, Solicitor, same, 1910-13. Appointed by Pres. Taft Chairman of the American Preparatory Commission to represent the United States upon the International Preparatory Commission for the Third Hague Conference, 1912. Appointed General Counsel for the United States before the American-British Claims Commission, 1913. Counsel for Department of State and expert assistant to the American Commissioners, Conference on Limitation of Armaments, 1921. Appointed member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A., 1925. Commissioned Major, Judge Advocate General's Reserve Corps, 1917; assigned to PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. Active duty, 1917; under orders of Attorney General Department of Justice, 1917; relieved from duty in office of Judge Advocate General and appointed Adjutant of Provost Marshal General, 1918; honorably discharged, 1918. Awarded Distinguished Service Medal, 1922. Special Counsel for the United States, American-Mexican Claims Commissions, 1926. Agent for the United States on General and Special Claims Commissions, United States and Mexico, 1926. Appointed Undersecretary of State, 1928. Appointed Ambassador to Mexico, 1930. Member of the American Society of International Law; Phi Delta Phi. Clubs: Cosmos, Metropolitan, Chevy Chase, India House. Residence, 80 D Street, Salt Lake City. S early as 1910 Mr. Clark became officially associated, and deeply interested personally, in Mexican affairs. In his dealings with officials and citizens generally he developed a deep respect for the Mexican people, which was met by reciprocal regard amounting to genuine affection. With his powers of keen discernment whenever and wherever a question of personal or national rights was at issue, and with characteristic good nature and genial disposition, he never failed of success in achieving diplomatic adjustments. At the request of the President of the United States he continued to serve as Ambassador to. Mexico beyond the time duration specified by him when he accepted this important and honorable appointment. With the many and great changes incident to the last national election Ambassador Clark tendered his resignation, to take effect with the close of the Republican administration in this country. His departure from Mexico was attended by impressive demonstrations of both official and popular regret. The Ambassador's resignation was acknowledged by the Secretary of State with the following letter of appreciation: 261 "I have received your letter of February 24, 1933, enclosing a letter to the President in which you submit your resignation, to become effective at the close of business March 3, as Ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the United States to Mexico. "Your wishes, of course, have been met and your letter has been placed in the President's hands. I desire to take this occasion to express my deep and sincere appreciation, not only for your distinguished service as American Ambassador to Mexico, which has reflected signal credit upon the Department of State, but also my personal appreciation and gratitude for the aid of your wise counsel and loyal cooperation at the beginning of my service in this office. "I am fully aware of the peculiar difficulties with which you were confronted in Mexico. It is therefore a matter of fairness to you and a matter of gratification for me to say that your work has not only materially strengthened the connections between the United States and Mexico to the benefit of both, but has served to give definite development to the new policy in our Mexican relations, in the inception of which you played so large a part. The wisdom of the new policy and the soundness of its results would seem to be apparent to any close observer of relations between the two countries and should be to you a matter of personal gratification. "I assure you of my very best wishes for your future success and happiness and reiterate the expression of my appreciation and warm personal regards." In acting upon the resignation, President Herbert Hoover sent to the retiring Ambassador the following communication: "I must of course, accept your resignation as Ambassador to Mexico, to be effective at the close of business March 3. "I wish to take this occasion to express to you the appreciation I have for the service you have rendered, our country as its Ambassador to Mexico. Never have our relations been lifted to such a high point of confidence and cooperation, and there is no more important service in the whole of foreign relations of the United States than this. A large part of it is due to your efforts, and I realize that it has been done at a great sacrifice to yourself. The American people should be grateful to you for it." 262 Justly commended and lauded for his services to the Nation, invested with unusual honors and enjoying the confidence and esteem of the governments of two countries, our beloved Brother J. Reuben Clark, Jr., returns to his native State amidst the welcome of her people of all parties, classes and creeds. To his exalted position in the Church he brings unusual ability, absolute dependability, an unwavering testimony of the divinity of this marvelous work in the latest dispensation and whole-souled devotion to this Church and its people. N ancient Apostle wrote tersely and with truth: "The woman is the-glory of the man" and. Further: "Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord." Possibly President Clark would have accomplished great things even though he had always lived a bachelor; but certain it is he could never have become the man he is had he remained unwed. At the right time and place, within holy precincts, he and Miss Luacine A. Savage, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: daughter of the much beloved Brother and Sister Charles R. Savage, plighted their troth as husband and wife for time and eternity. As already enumerated, four children have come to inherit the blessings of this goodly parentage. In every way Sister Luacine Savage Clark has proved a help meet for her distinguished husband. Richly endowed with the enduring graces of the noblest order of womanhood, of pure and well-trained mind, in spirit sensitive yet always firm for that which is good, she is held in affectionate esteem by all whose privilege it is te know her. To husband, son and daughters she is a source of perennial inspiration and encouragement. In Church service, especially in Relief Society work, Sister Clark has accomplished much both as a member and as presiding officer in the organizations with which she has been identified. It is the confident hope and sustaining prayer of the Church membership that many and happy years of blessed ministry await President and Sister Clark.