Father I hear Thee speak, And see Thee smile. Thou wilt bring us home to Thee, After a while, Our Father.
White Carnations By Blanche Stockdale Burt
Georgia Martin sat on the edge of the lily pond watching her hand as it trailed idly about in the cool waters above the darting gold-fish. It was not the type of hand one usually finds hovering about a lily pond, she mused, disconsolately. One would expect it to be small and white like a fragile butterfly, and her hand was red, work-worn, deep-seamed and middle-aged.
"When you get tired of the garden come into the house. You'll probably be able to find something to interest you there," her sister, Alice called out to her.
"Thanks, Al, but this is heavenly," Georgia told her. "I'd like to stay here forever—and just relax and find the peace I have vainly sought for so long."
She did not think it necessary to tell Alice that a serpent had entered her garden since she had come there—the serpent of discontent.
"I have a couple of drawings to finish and Jane's busy with her correspondence, so just go ahead and enjoy yourself," Alice invited and hurried into the house.
Georgia, left alone, drank in the beauty of the garden with the gluttony of a famished soul—yet it did not give her the joy it should have done, for she was comparing it, symbol as it was of all Alice had accomplished, with her own pitiful lack of achievement.
Though the garden had been established on the self-same spot near which she had spent her life until her marriage, it represented a luxury foreign to any she had ever known. It was the same little acre of land surrounding the old home in which their father had kept his chickens, his cow, and his vegetable garden, but was now magically changed into a fairyland of rolling lawns dotted with quaint stepping-stones, glistening pools, shady nooks and unexpected clumps of trees or exotic flowers of rare color—all kept in order by a gardener who lived in a tiny house at the edge of the estate.
The shabby little home in which all three of them, Alice, Jane and herself had been born, had been as miraculously transformed into a thing of loveliness as the garden under Alice's enchanted touch. She had built things onto it and taken things off. She had made the roof more sloping and had covered it with shingles apple-green in color. Everywhere she had put in more and deeper windows, had added honeysuckle shaded sun-porches and had stuccoed over the faded red brick with tints of ivory. Inside she had removed walls and partitions, had made doors into archways and had transformed the many prim, puritanically plain little old rooms and had furnished them expensively.
Alice could easily afford to do all this though an artist by profession, for she had accomplished the seemingly impossible; she had made a financial success of her art work. Having never married, she had taken over the old place and had transformed it into her ideal of what a home should be.
WHITE CARNATIONS
Jane, the other sister, had been equally successful in another way. Her husband had died soon after her marriage and she had taken over his hardware store where he had left it and had developed it into a big business. She, Georgia, was the only one who had been a failure, she told herself. In spite of two brilliant sisters to set the example for her, she had gone through life economizing, scrimping, playing the household drudge for her overworked husband and five children. Her marriage had been one long session of making over dresses for her two girls and doing without things in order to save enough money from her husband's small salary to send her three boys through college. It had been a gigantic task but now the children were through school and beginning to earn their living in a modest way she and her husband could have a few more comforts than formerly, yet they probably would always have to live in their stuffy little house and Georgia must do her own work and make her own clothes. It hurt her a little to admit that her husband's earning power would always be so far below that of either of her sisters.
Yet, even though it had made her feel so completely her inferiority. She had enjoyed coming home and tasting for a few days her sisters' world so far removed from her own. It was especially appropriate that all three sisters should gather at the old home for Mother's Day which would be tomorrow, even though both mother and father had been dead for many years.
She had not realized how late it was getting until Alice, slender and beautifully gowned, came out in the garden for her, dancing along as she used to do as a child when especially delighted.
"George!" she cried excitedly: "Come on in. There's a wonderful surprise for you. I've had the maid fix it up in your room."
Forgetting for a moment that she was fat and middle-aged, Georgia grasped Alice's hand and the two of them raced up the garden and into the house as they had done when they were children. Eagerly they burst into the room which was Georgia's during her brief visit here—their mother's old room.
It was a changed room, filled to overflowing with florist's flowers, white carnations mostly, set everywhere in Alice's most expensive vases—six bouquets in all. They seemed such a part of her new environment that Georgia had to read the greeting attached to each before she realized that they really came from her old home, for they had been sent by her husband and each of her five children. She should have known as much, for Ellen, her eldest daughter, always jogged up her father's and brothers' flagging memories and saw to it that her mother received her full quota of tribute on Mother's Day. Only this year their gifts had taken on a less practical tinge than formerly—in order to harmonize with her new setting, of course.
Alice and Jane stood by the door watching her—a little sadly, Georgia thought.
"It must be wonderful to have your room filled with flowers on Mother's Day," Alice said wistfully. "Jane's and mine will always be empty, you know. You always were the lucky one of the family, George."
"Lucky? Why, I'm the tramp—the beggar—the poor relation. The only one who hasn't been a success."
"What is our success compared to 308 yours?" Alice wanted to know. "I have created a great many works of art, inanimate things painted on canvas or paper. You have brought into being and developed five beautiful living souls. They say that whoever creates comes near to the Divine Creator of everything. If so, anyone who produces a living soul comes nearest to Him of all."
"Al's right, Georgia," declared level-headed Jane who usually said little and thought much. "What good would Al's drawings or my silly stock of hardware be if women greater than ourselves hadn't peopled RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the world with someone to appreciate and buy it?"
"Doesn't Georgia look like Mother tonight," observed Alice. "She's more like her than either of us."
"Get your best rags on," Jane announced. "I'm giving a theater and dinner party tonight in honor of Georgia, our most distinguished sister."
And Georgia, sitting between her two immaculately groomed sisters, caressing her home-made dress of cheap silk with her coarse, work-reddened hands, was amazed to find that she was considered the greatest of them all.