A Promise of Spring By Tressa Love Hanson The Winter has been long and dreary The ground is still covered with snow And yet as I gaze from my doorway There's a promise of spring. Soft and low. There's a breeze coming up from the southland That whispers through trees tall and bare And listen! A meadowlark's singing: There's a promise of. Spring in the air. For Members of the RELIEF SOCIETY LITERARY CLASS ONLY? "Huckleberry Finn" By MARK TWAIN School smelt $1.25 Postpaid. Cash with the Order  Quantity Limited 'This is the Book for May Lessons Order Now DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah Springtime Spring is the house-cleaning season. What to do with the prized magazines and periodicals that each spring finds stored away in attic and basement, serving no better purpose than to accumulate dust and consume Se space, is a problem that wrinkles the brow of many a house-wife. Let us urge you not to let this valuable reading material remain hidden away when at a surprisingly low cost you can convert it into handsomely bound volumes, gracing your library shelves, where you and your family can find easy access to the gems that these magazines contain. A card from you, stating the quantity of such material that you would like bound up, will bring a prompt response quoting costs. We are offering a special discount for ten or more volumes bound at one time, The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City Your Family and ? Mine So many families apparently living under: ideal home conditions, fail to provide for the continuance of that happiness by arranging A Definite Fut For little cost every household can absolutely guarantee their future happiness and comfort with Beneficial Life Insurance. The one savings-investment-protection plan that has stood the acid test?has always maintained a value of 100 cents on the dollar and payable on demand. Beneficial Life Insurance is cbstndaing because you receive Sti Lous Storr Sarnticispatting Raltew WHICH MEANS POLICYHOLDERS SHARE THE NET EARNINGS EACH YEAR BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO HOME OFFICE: SALT LAKE CITY HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager