Health in the Vegetable Kingdom By Lucy Rose Middleton
Authorities on nutrition are all agreed as to the tremendous value of vegetables, and take great delight in extolling their healthful virtues. Vegetables contain vitamins, minerals, nourishing starches and sugars, and provide roughage which combats intestinal sluggishness. It is easy to use too much meat; protein foods in excess are liable to undergo putrefaction with the result that poisonous substances are absorbed by the body. Vegetables, on the other hand, are free from this reproach, and should be used liberally whenever possible. Great as is the boon of canning, there is no real substitute for fresh vegetables. By careful planning and the use of common sense, one can provide a good variety of vegetables for the table without paying excessive prices, regardless of the month. Do not yield to the allurements of the dealer who tempts you by anticipating the season. In the bitter cold of January and February we see tantalizing displays of fresh fruits and vegetables that normally will not be in season for months to come. But prices are exorbitant, and quality usually inferior. The cucumbers sell at possibly 25 cents apiece, and the tomatoes are small and anemic looking by comparison with those of mid-summer. In the middle of winter we can have plenty of fresh vegetables with economy if we make proper use of celery, lettuce, turnips, carrots, cabbage, potatoes, squash, sweet potatoes, onions, and parsnips. As springtime advances, the supply of fresh vegetables increases steadily. The price of these may still be a bit high, but will grow less. And by judicious choosing, the market basket may be aided without paying prices out of reason. The coming of spring vegetables forces down the price of the stored root vegetables, and these should not be neglected, because many of them are still attractive and nutritious.
Spinach Timbales 1½ cups cooked spinach, finely chopped 2 tablespoons butter 2 eggs, slightly beaten ? cup milk ? teaspoon salt ? teaspoon pepper Few drops onion juice 2 teaspoons vinegar 8 round slices bread, fried in butter 8 slices tomato or 1 cup tomato sauce
HEALTH IN THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM
Combine first 8 ingredients. Fill buttered timbale molds. Bake in pan of hot water in slow oven. Cover bread with tomato or tomato sauce. Turn spinach mold on each. If tomato was used, serve with white sauce.
Glazed Carrots 2 cups carrots 3 tablespoons fat 1 tablespoon sugar Stock or water
Scrape and wash carrots of uniform size, preferably small new ones. Simmer until tender. Melt the fat, add the carrots, sprinkle with sugar and cook over a hot fire until they begin to brown. Add a small amount of stock or water and cook and stir until glazed.
Potato Croquettes (Stuffed with Sausage) 2 cups potato, boiled and riced 2 beaten eggs 2 tablespoons melted butter 3 sausages Crumbs
Mix the potato, egg and butter well together. Take a small portion of the mixture, roll out one-half inch thick on a floured board, cut with a four-inch cutter. Put in half a cooked sausage, bringing the edges together so that the sausage is entirely enclosed. Repeat until all the mixture is used. Roll in slightly beaten egg, then in crumbs and let dry. Place croquettes in a frying basket, not more than three at a time, and fry in deep fat to a delicate brown color at a temperature of 380 degrees Fah. Roll on brown paper. Garnish with parsley.
Boston Baked Beans 1 quart navy beans ¼ pound fat salt pork 1 tablespoon salt 3 tablespoons sugar 319 1 tablespoon or 1 cup molasses, according to taste ¼ teaspoon mustard, if desired Boiling water.
Pick over beans, cover with cold water, and soak over night. Drain, cover with fresh water, heat slowly. Keeping water below the boiling point, and cook until skins will burst when struck by a draft of air. Drain beans. Scald pork and scrape, remove ¼ inch slice, and put in bottom of bean pot. Cut through rind of remaining pork every half-inch, making cuts 1 inch deep. Put beans in pot and bury pork in beans, leaving rind exposed. Mix salt, molasses, sugar, and 1 cup boiling water and pour over beans. If that is not enough liquid to cover beans, add a little more boiling water. Cover bean pot and bake 6-8 hours in a slow oven, uncovering the last hour of cooking, that rind may become brown and crisp.
Corn Fritters 1 cup canned corn ? cup flour ½ teaspoon baking powder ½ teaspoon salt Few grains paprika 1 egg
Chop corn, drain, add dry ingredients mixed and sifted. Add egg yolk beaten until thick. Fold in the egg white, beaten until stiff. Drop spoonfuls on well greased frying pan or in deep fat. When well browned, drain on brown paper and serve hot with maple syrup.
Cream of Vegetable Soup 1-1 cup cooked vegetables, mashed or chopped 3 cups milk 2 slices onion 3 tablespoons butter 3 tablespoons flour Salt and pepper
320 Melt butter in sauce pan and mix with flour. When well blended add the milk, which has been scalded with the onion. Remove the onion and stir until boiling point is reached. Add vegetables and vegetable stock and boil 2 minutes. Put through a sieve and season to taste. If desired, sprinkle with grated cheese. A combination of almost any vegetables may be used.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Asparagus Salad
Marinate cooked asparagus. Chill thoroughly, arrange several stalks on each plate on bed of lettuce or other salad green. Make stripe band across middle, using finely chopped hard-cooked egg white, hard-cooked egg yolk forced through a strainer, chopped pickles, and chopped pimento for the different stripes. Serve with French Dressing made with lemon juice.
