Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke
ARTICLE IV
WALLS—CEILING—WOODWORK
In the last article we considered the more or less structural forms of wall treatment. This month we will take up the applied wall decoration as well as woodwork and ceilings.
Plaster walls may be either rough or smooth finished and make excellent backgrounds. Sand finished walls should not be used in small rooms as they absorb light and tend to decrease the apparent size. Rough plaster furnishes an interesting play of light and shadow and form very fine backgrounds for Spanish, Italian, Old English furniture or furniture of vigorous character. There is also on the market a plastic paint which gives this rough finish and produces the same effect as plaster. While wet it can be worked into various interesting designs with trowel, brush, sponge or the hands. It can be had in many lovely tints to key in with your chosen color scheme. Rough finishes are easily cleaned by using the starch dressing suggested before.
Smooth finished plaster makes a good ground for paint for paper. Painted plaster walls are fine backgrounds and add to the apparent size. Except in kitchen and bathroom they should be in a flat tone. Kalsomined walls come in this class and are an inexpensive finish. Painted or kalsomined walls may be stippled, antiqued, or glazed. Do not be afraid to use colors on the walls, subdued color to be sure. Key your walls to your color scheme. You will be more likely to get a balance of color throughout the room. Always remember in choosing colors for walls, however, to choose a tint several degrees lighter than the actual color you think you want. As colors intensify themselves when seen in large masses on four walls of a room, and a color you may like in the sample, can or package, on the wall will be harsh and irritating. Sometimes stenciling or transfers may be applied but care must be exercised in using them to prevent a spotted appearance. Occasionally a stenciled border may add the finishing touch to a painted or kalsomined wall, but a narrow cornice or picture moulding is usually more desirable. Walls with murals and other painted decorations are lovely, but beyond our reach. However, papers can be purchased which give the effect of mural painting. In fact paintings direct on the walls are the ancestors of modern wallpapers.
Perhaps one of the most common methods of wall treatment is wallpaper, and it is an excellent one too in accenting qualities of space and proportion, enrichment of rooms, and in giving color, character and artistic dignity. Even in its least expensive form it is capable of giving beauty and freshness. Wallpaper has the disadvantages of making the use of pictures practically impossible unless it is very inconspicuous in design. In other words, it is a decoration in itself. Plain wallpaper can be purchased, but it is usually advisable to paint the wall rather than use these unless it is a textured paper that adds interest in that way, or if the walls are poor. For instance, Japanese grass cloth is a wall hanging that is also a wall protector, and an excellent background. However, a perfectly plain paper will emphasize mars and defects in the walls which patterned papers tend to conceal.
In choosing wallpaper there are several things that must be taken into consideration. Never choose a paper just because it is pretty. Personal preferences must always be subordinated to the purpose and spirit of the room in which the paper is to be used. Choose a pattern you like of course but be sure it suits the room. People often choose a paper that appeals to them in the shop only to find when it is hung that it clashes with the room and its furnishings. Never buy paper until you have tried a large piece of it in both natural and artificial light in the room where it is to be hung. Just a word of caution about salespeople selling home furnishings (and wallpaper men are just as guilty as the rest) try to influence people into buying a particular item because it is the fad that it is what everyone is buying." Do not pay any attention to it. Just because it is the style and appeals to a number of people is no reason that it will suit your particular house or needs. Following the style in home decoration is good to a certain extent but ridiculous beyond. Do not let your better judgment be overcome by style promotion. Pay some attention, of course, to what is being shown, but in the final choice buy what is appropriate to your particular situation.
The question of scale, pattern and color come up in the choice of papers. Remember that large designs crowd small rooms and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE minimize everything set before them. The color should be suitable to the exposure and scheme of the room. A monotonous repetition of pattern is maddening. Watch for this in buying papers. It is especially true of medallions and patterns that are in sharp contrast to the background. The architectural background also must be taken into consideration. Let me illustrate: Into a room with oak beamed ceilings and furniture of heavy oak or walnut, you would not put a paper of damask or chintz design, but would want something of more vigorous character as foliage, tapestry, stipple, oatmeal, embossed Jacobean, or strong geometrical design. Delicate gay, glazed, and smooth papers have the feeling of those charming homes of the Colonial period and similar types of interiors identified by enamel woodwork. This would include such papers as satins, moires, small lozenge, toile de Jouy, chintz, shadow stripes, and the many beautiful old scenics. It is often more interesting to use wallpaper in panels than over the entire surface. Some panels may have paper, others left plain or all the panels may be papered. Papers especially suitable for panelling are damasks, scenics, chintzes and panel papers made for the purpose.
Foliage papers are easy to live with as they are unobtrusive yet spread balanced color and design over walls of large rooms. Striped papers two-tone, not contrasting, or of pronounced colors make lovely backgrounds but should not be used in high rooms as they tend to increase height. Many of the modernistic patterns if not too extreme can be used for the background of most any kind of furnishing. Even though your room is of no YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL particular period, the same rules should be followed—if your furnishings are small and of refined design use paper that gives the same impression, if of strong and heavy proportions they can stand more vigorous contrasts and larger designs. There are some papers that have a small all-over design of a leaf, flower or dot which are pleasant to live with, are good backgrounds for pictures and suitable to a large variety of furnishings.
Landscape papers which come in sets give interest and character to a home. They are dignified in effect, yet as refreshing as the outdoors they suggest. They give an air of spaciousness. For the dining room and hall they are especially suitable, but can be used in living rooms and bedrooms. These landscapes and other expensive papers should be preserved by mounting on a muslin lining. This cloth safeguards them from cracks caused by the house settling, and they are easily moved if desired. These landscapes come in a variety of designs and are especially lovely backgrounds for Colonial mahogany furniture. The same thing applies to Chinese papers which come in delicate colors in flower garden effects and are suitable to bedrooms or other rooms where the furnishings are light and delicate.
Today science is combining the charm of lovely old design with modern methods by making wall hangings impervious to moisture. There are a number of papers painted in oil on parchment and can be washed with soap and water and left as lovely as new. Then there are the varieties of oilcloths which come in delightful designs, not only suitable to bathrooms and kitchens, but to every room in the house. Some are even made in imitation of old 315 damasks and brocades and would be appropriate set in panels in a French room. Varnished and glazed papers are used for kitchens and bathrooms as they can be easily washed off. Any paper can be given a washable surface by applying a coat of glue size and one or two coats of clear varnish. It will, however, make it a little darker. There is on the market a wallpaper lacquer which gives a waterproof finish, also a liquid wax which if rubbed on gives a nice sheen. Just a word about wallpaper borders. They are used to a much greater extent than is necessary. A more distinctive finish is given by using a narrow moulding or cornice instead. If borders are used let them be unobtrusive in design and coloring and not more than four inches wide. There are some borders which resemble wood mouldings and are attractive. Occasionally walls are hung with fabrics. Often ginghams, toile de Jouys, or similar fabrics are used in rooms furnished in peasant style or an informal manner. Chintz and India prints are also used in this way, often covering walls that are in bad condition. If they are finished with shellac they are easily cleaned. They are especially appropriate in kitchens and breakfast rooms, and bedrooms with provincial or maple furniture. If brocades, damasks and other fine fabrics are used on the walls, in panels, etc., they should be tacked on frames before putting on wall. Such materials would be suitable only in formal rooms.
In choosing wallpaper the type of room into which it is going should be considered. As a rule bedrooms demand a more informal type of paper as flowers, chintz, and small 316 designs on a light ground. The living and dining rooms require more formal patterns. In these rooms the atmosphere of comfort and restfulness should prevail, the walls should be quiet and subdued. However, do not allow yourself to be intimidated into choosing always the taupe or sand colors for fear you will make a mistake. Tints of greens, greys, ivorys, blue-greens, corals, yellow, silver, and oyster white are all good colors and will provide cheerful yet quiet backgrounds. Dashing, cheerful, brilliant colors can be used in sunrooms and breakfast room, and a little less brilliant note in the dining room where gayety, and good cheer are keynotes. The kitchen and bathroom need wall finishes that are colorful and easily cleaned. Enameled walls and woodwork, varnished paper or oilcloth are very suitable. Tile, tile board or composition is an attractive and sanitary finish for bathrooms, kitchen and laundry, and if carried out in suitable colors add much to the decoration. Tiles also add an interesting element in halls, sunrooms, and about the fireplace. A word of warning about tiling a room—be sure the colors are such that you will not tire of them easily as they cannot be changed without considerable expense. Some of the especially attractive tiles are copies of Spanish and Italian designs centuries old. A Treillage wall, which is merely lattice or trellis work applied to the walls makes an unusual finish for sun parlors. It can be worked up in many interesting designs and color schemes. It is often effective to paint the lattice work to contrast with the background, or wall underneath.
The woodwork may be finished to harmonize with the walls by RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE analogy or by contrast. The more woodwork in a room, the more nearly it should tone in with the walls. If the walls are painted a light color the woodwork should be the same or a tone lighter or darker. If the walls are papered the woodwork should match or at least key in with the background of the wallpaper, or with some color in it, or in rarer instances with some contrasting color used elsewhere in the room. Woodwork in small rooms if painted like the walls will help create an idea of space and in large rooms if stained or enameled like the darkest color in the wallpaper or floor will decrease space. If natural color wood finish is desired it should key in with the color of the furniture and be slightly lighter than the floor.
The ceiling is often neglected. But it is just as necessary a part of the room as are the walls and floor and should have as much a part in the decorative scheme as the sky in a painting. It does not have to be ornate, it may be plain and still be artistic, but consider the ceiling. The first kinds of ceilings were probably those in which the structural joints, and beams were visible. They are appropriate in Early American, Renaissance, and in no-period rooms of vigorous character, and may be either painted or left in natural wood. Often the spaces in between the beams as well as the beams themselves were carved and decorated in gilts and colors. If your ceilings are too high they can be lowered by installing a false ceiling of wall board, nailed on supports at chosen height. The joints are covered with mouldings and a cornice is added to finish and support it. The mouldings may be left in natural color and the rest painted, or all painted. Wall board may also be YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL used to cover cracked and unsightly ceilings. And with it many interesting effects in panelling can be worked out. Plaster ceilings may be of two kinds, decorated and plain. For the smaller, average home the decorated is not available nor suitable, although there are some designs done in low relief that are charming. The plain plaster ceiling may be tinted or papered in a plain color, slightly lighter than the walls. Do not have it white unless the walls are, and never a glaring white. To do so gives the impression of four walls without a roof. Make it seem to belong to the rest of the room. In an informal room, also in attics, a satisfactory and unusual way is to carry the wallpaper, if of small repeat design, over both the wall and ceiling. 317
There are different shaped ceilings—vaulted, lunetted, tunnel, barrel and coved, all of which except the last are more suitable to large period rooms. Avoid the canopy or "drop ceiling." It gives exactly that effect, that the ceiling is dropping down over the wall. The only excuse for its use is in a room with a very high ceiling, but even there all other means available should be used first. Let me repeat for emphasis the general principle that there should be a gradation of color from floor to ceiling. Walls ought to be lighter tone than the floors, the ceiling ought to be a tone lighter than the wall. This is a contrast of values, the contrast should not be great, just a pleasing gradation from the bottom up. Dark colors on top or in the middle just naturally throw a color scheme out of balance. Dark colors appear heavy and the laws of gravity place weight at the bottom. That is, then the agreeable and pleasing arrangement.
Next Month: Floors and Floor Coverings.