Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
May—how lacy lilacs bloom and apple blossoms scent the air. The sweetest time to remember and only mother.
MRS. RUTH BRYAN OWEN, brilliant daughter of the great "Commoner" has been appointed minister to Denmark. This high honor marks an epoch in woman's achievement. Appointment of ambassadors and ministers in the diplomatic corps are the highest favors the President bestows upon his friends, and are considered a mark of distinction.
ULDINE UTLEY, a young evangelist will hold a religious revival at the Century of Progress at Chicago this summer.
SPAIN and Portugal have granted suffrage to women. The first woman to vote in Lisbon was 80 years old.
MRS. W. D. CROSS, who saved President Roosevelt's life has been mentioned for the Congressional Medal of Honor.
THE Los Angeles telephone girl who calmly told the New York lady, "Sorry, I cannot connect you. We're having an earthquake," was surely a heroine.
THE Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt yellow rose will go very well with the Eleanor blue.
EIDE NORENA made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in La Boheme. She is said to be very beautiful.
MRS. PEARL WILLIFORD has been elected mayor of Ellsworth, Kansas.
MRS. ADA B. CLODFELTER, of Missouri, bought a whole town and endeavored to make it ideal. She held all the offices herself and only permitted reputable persons to dwell there.
MARLENE DIETRICH, thrown from her horse while filming for a picture is recovering and will soon return to Germany from Hollywood.
MRS. JANE CLARK BOLWINKLE, 99, the oldest woman in Idaho, who died last March, was honored in 1932 by the George Washington bicentennial committee for being one of the oldest mothers in the United States.
LADY MURASAKI was one of the earliest women novelists of the world. She was born 998 A. D. She kept a diary which still exists and wrote The Tale of Genji, both of which are being translated in six volumes. Her novel, Lady of the Boat, is just on the book shelves.
JULIA WILBOR TOMKINS' play, "Once There Was A Princess," when recently presented in New York was witnessed by three princesses and a duchess—Princess Alexandra Kropotkin, Princess Der Ling, Princess Simon Kristoff and Duchess de Richelieu.
MISS VIOLET OLSILSEN, an archeologist, is adventuring in South America for material for a book.
MRS. NELLIE FANNIE CARTER left her immense fortune of $10,000,000 to those who had served her in friendliness. The dressmaker, hair dresser, secretary. All were remembered in sums from $10,000 to $50,000.
ROSE WILDER LANE'S new book, "Let the Hurricane Roar," a pioneer story, is said by the critics to be a vivid portrayal of pioneer life.