THE consensus of opinion of those privileged to attend our Relief Society Conference this April has been that it will go down in history as an outstanding one. The attendance was remarkable when we consider the difficulty people have in getting money for traveling expenses. All but one of the Stakes and six Missions were represented. The Singing Mothers gave delight to all who heard them. They furnished music for one session of General Conference and President Grant complimented them very highly. The hand-work sent from different Stakes and Missions was a delight to all who viewed it. The beauty, perfection and variety of the work opened the eyes of many people to this phase of Relief Society
Editor Amy Brown Lyman Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball
 
activity. Only those closely connected with the organizations had any idea of the scope of the work done and the skill of our Relief Society women in handcraft. We doubt if so many quilts were ever before assembled. The help given in feeding the children and in their playthings will be very suggestive and helpful. We thank all those who made this display such a marked success. We wish all our members could have seen it and been thrilled with gratitude as were those privileged to view it.
General Conference
UNUSUALLY fine spirited addresses pregnant with well being to the Church membership, if heeded, marked the 103rd Annual Conference of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Word of Wisdom was most emphatically stressed. President Grant devoted most of his address to this law of health. Brother Talmage pointed out that prior to the depression members of the Church had been told by their leaders to " 'keep out of debt and not go into expanding schemes.' They were told of the times now upon us and those who had ears to hear acted on this advice and were benefited." He asserted that the emphasis laid on health during the conference had a deep significance. Said he, "Have you not read of the pestilences which are to be visited on the earth in the latter days? They are among the judgments prophesied for these times. Those who care for their health and keep strong are the ones who will survive. If a pestilence comes, let it not take you because of your poor health. Prohibition was stressed and the people urged to do all in their power that the 18th Amendment would not be repealed. Brother J. Reuben Clark was sustained as Second Counselor to President Grant and Brother Samuel O. Bennion made one of the First Seven Presidents of Seventies. President Clark pointed out that "We must again yield fealty to the law that mouldering wealth, however great, is a mere shadow compared with the living, enduring riches of the mind and heart. We must remember the command given to Israel of old?'Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself'?which, says James, is the 'royal law according to the Scriptures.' "The World problem is not primarily one of finance, but requires unselfishness, industry, courage, confidence character, heart, temperance, integrity and righteousness. The world has been on a wild debauch, materially and spiritually; it must recover in the same way the drunken reprobate recovers?by repentance and right living. "Standing before. Capernaum, Jesus said: 'Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.' To the multitudes on the mount he said: 'Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness, and all these things shall be added.' The Psalmist sang: 'The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether'. President Ivins affirmed that we will survive and emerge from our present and unfortunate condition a wiser, happier and better people EDITORIAL no matter what our suffering may be before we win the victory. "It will come to our country, if it is to come at all, through the united efforts of the American people, whose souls, I believe, will turn to the Lord. Deliverance will not come by a miracle from heaven, but, I believe the Lord will endow us with wisdom and with his help will work out our deliverance." He concluded by saying that his faith in the membership of the 323 Church is unshaken, and he is sure that "by faith, with work added, we will carry the Church through to glorious triumph regardless of the sacrifices which may be required." The people were exhorted to keep up their courage, to shun idleness, cast out greed and ambition and selfishness and bitterness and to return to the old virtues, industry, thrift, honesty, self reliance, independence of spirit self discipline and mutual helpfulness.