Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1901 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIONsS'" THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT: The agents of the Exponent and those interested in the work of the women of the Church, and in higher education and elevation of women along all the many lines that tend to the uplifting of the human race, should feel it a privilege to help maintain a paper that has done and is doing what the Exponent has for the benefit of womankind.... It has entered into every work and enterprise undertaken by women, not only here at home, the centre of women's organizations of the Church, but it has reached out all over the civilized world, and sought to bring before its readers the best work being done by women the world over — Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY IN MARICOPA STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference was held in the Stake Tabernacle... President Mabel A. Hakes presiding. All the stake officers were present, except our treasurer who has had the misfortune to fall and break her arm. Five out of six wards were well represented with both officers and members. A good spirit prevailed, all seemed ready and willing to lend a helping hand with their means to help the poor and needy, also to assist those placed over them in rolling on this great work. Though last year was very dry considerable grain has been stored away for time of need by being sealed airtight. The insects are very bad in this hot climate. There are better prospects this year, we all want to do much more in saving grain, also beans, many fruits of all kinds. — Annie E. Fuller, Sec. IN THE WILDERNESS OF MEXICO Through the grass so tall and slender, reptiles drag their length along, In their nests the birdlings tender long have hushed their vesper song. Craggy rocks the precious metals, like unwilling prisoners hold — Flowers, too, have closed their petals, holding dewdrops in their fold, Like sentinels, the prickly cactus, rear their towering forms on high. — Ellis R. Shipp BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION: The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary of our revered and honored Mother in Israel, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was celebrated at the handsome residence of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, in this city, May 3, 1901. The beautiful parlors and library were artistically decorated with flowers, flags and historic pictures, the parlors and library in sweet peas, the dining room in red and white roses and carnations. The music was by some of the best talent in the city, Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C. Lund.... Sister Smith was dressed in white and looked the veritable "Queen of hearts and homes," lovable and motherly and altogether charming. Those who received with her were Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr. And Mrs. George H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and Mrs. D. R. Allen.... A list of the names of the guests is too long for our little paper but suffice to say, it could not include all Sister Smith's friends and admirers, for they fill these valleys of the mountains and extend far away from here into other lands and climes. — Editorial Page 302 BiLIZABETH II, Queen of Great Britain, and her husband, Prince Philip, took a journey of forty-one days through India, Pakistan, and Nepal in January and February. They attended celebrations of India's birth as a republic thirteen years ago. These countries now belong to the independent states forming the Commonwealth of Nations. All acknowledge Elizabeth as the head of the Commonwealth, but have no enforced ties, as in the colonial days; only ties of friendship and also of preferential trade and fiscal benefits. 'The change of these states from colonial to commonwealth status is a surprising facet of modern history. The Queen was received with great acclaim and friendliness, which she reciprocated. QGALLY BOWLES, daughter of Under Secretary of State Chester Bowles, and Nancy Gore, daughter of Senator Albert Gore of Tennessee, are two of the earliest volunteers of the Peace Corps, set up in March by President Kennedy on a "temporary pilot basis," to serve abroad helping the inhabitants of underdeveloped nations. With no salaries and necessary maintenance allowances only, women will teach in primary and secondary schools, stressing instruction in the