Buffet to Remember Alice Morrey Bailey A buffet supper is the answer to limited dining space and a large party. Your guests will enjoy the gay informality of serving themselves, eating where they please (furnish folding tables or TV trays for this), and will savor the evening from Chip'n Dip to the last goodnight. MENU Chip'n Dip Cucumber Cool Fluff Creamed Onions a la King Topknots and Butter Midas-Touch Punch Sweet Paprika Oven-Fried Chicken Baked Potato Parsley Butter Relishes: Pickled Beets, Sweet Gherkins, Black Olives, Currant Jelly Short Bread and Lemon Arvilla RECIPES (In Order of Preparation) CucuUMBER CooL FLUFF 1 pkg. Lime or lemon gelatin 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Hot water 3 green onions (and tops), minced 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 c. Grated cucumbers Y% tbsp. Horse-radish " c. Mayonnaise Prepare gelatin according to directions, except with % cup less water. Add lemon juice, salt. Refrigerate until thickening to set. Beat with mixer until fluffy. Mix horse-radish with mayonnaise and fold into whipped gelatin. Fold in cucumber and onion. Chill until firm. Unmold on large platter. Garnish with salad greens, carrot curls, radishes, cucumber slices (unpeeled and scored with fork), and tomato wedges. SHORT BREAD 1 Ib. Butter 2% c. Sugar 4 c. Flour Cream butter and sugar. Knead in flour. Roll into cylinder diameter of cookie desired. Bake 6-8 minutes in 475° oven, until very light brown (easily overbaked). BoaTs FOR ONIONS A LA KING 2 c. Sifted flour 24 c. Hydrogenated shortening (chilled) 1 tsp. Salt % c. Ice water Sift flour and salt. Toss in grated shortening. Sprinkle with water and mix with fork. Roll out on heavy duty aluminum %-inch thick. Cut into oblongs 5 x 2 inches. Moisten ends of dough and press together to form boats. Bake 10-12 minutes in 475° oven. Makes 18 boats. ParsLEY BUTTER 1 square butter 1 tbsp. Minced and bruised parsley Work butter and parsley together. Mold into marble-sized balls. Stick colored round toothpick in each ball. Serve in bowl of crushed ice.