Jo Be a Grandmother Harriet De Spain (2 is a joy and a wonder to be a grandmother. I have a little grandson who, upon seeing me come down the street toward him at play, lifts his head like a proud alerted deer, then he runs toward me shouting, ""Grandma! Grandma! Grandma!'' I have need to brace myself against the onslaught of his eager body. His embrace is not prolonged, for he turns and runs as fast as his little short legs allow into the house, leaving all doors open behind him as he shouts, "Grandma is here! Grandma is here!'' Surely no fanfare of trumpets or ritual of queens is as sweet and heart stirring as this heralding of my approach! My startled daughter appears. Her anxious and critical expression is reminiscent of my own young motherhood, when my emotions were so dominated by my _ sense of responsibility that I could only hear the noise and see the not-too-clean face, instead of the love, innocence, and devotion behind it. Surely Grandmother has the advantage of the wisdom she _ has gained through the years of living. I am deeply grateful for life. My grandson allows me just a few minutes of his time, then the important business of play calls him outside. But before he goes he bestows a possessive and proud pat upon my knee, and he says, "Don't you go away." My heart is filled with love and a little sadness, too, for I know how fleeting are these precious moments. But, however short, he has made me an important person in his life. He has made me the recipient of more love and devotion than my soul can contain. It fills me with the knowledge of God's love and goodness towards me. I resolve prayerfully to be the grandmother that my grandson thinks I am. Take a tip from Zippy the Zions Savings Bug Your savings earn more at Z. S.& L. That's nght it's smart arithmetic, and plain good sense to Save your money at ZIONS SAVINGS & LOAN because it can earn big plus for possible current bonus of total of rate of up to up to 4% +1%=9% Choose from either of these two bonus plans ie Systematic Savings 2. Fully Paid Savings Certificate YOUR SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $10,000 BY A FEDERAL AGENCY Start earning up to 5% today at Utah's first savings and loan ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. First South, Salt Lake City 4901 S. State Street, Murray, Utah Page 339 TOURS FOR 1961 APRIL—Hawaii MAY—Mexico JUNE—Hawaii, Mexico, and Northwest, and Alaska JULY—Hawaii, Pageant and Historical Eastern Tour AUGUST—Southern California (San Francisco, Reno, Los Angeles) AUGUST—Europe OCTOBER — Aloha Week (Hawaii) DECEMBER—Rose Parade Tour JANUARY—Around the World Cruise Margaret Lund Travel Service 72 East 4th South Moxum Hotel Lobby Box 2065