[Column 2]
traveled many miles visiting the branches in the
stake which at that time was a very large one.
	She was of a mild and loving disposition; her life
was full of good works and her many virtues en-
deared her to all who knew her.
	She was a noble woman and and the fruits of
her labors can be seen throughout the Oneida
Stake.
	Sister Fox was the mother of t[-]o children, one
son and one daughter, 17 grandchildren and 10
great grandchi dr[-]n.
	The funeral services were held Wednesday,
April 11 under the direction of Counselor Thomas
Durant. The remains were conveyed in a hearse
from the residence of her daughter, Mrs. L. L.
Hatch, to the me[-]ting-house, followed by the
family and members of the Relief Society, under
the direction of the president, Sister Annie
Challis.
	Services opened by the choir singing, "O my
Father;" prayer by I. B. Nash singing, "O grave,
where is thy victory?" Speakers were L. H. Hatch
of Logan and H. E. Hatch; solo by I. B. Nash,
"Shall we meet beyond the river?" speakers were
C. Go sland, President Geo. C. Parkinson, S R,
Parkinson and Thomas Durrant, all addressed
words of consolation to the bereaved family. Ben-
ediction by E. Buckley,
	The floral offerings were numerous and beauti-
ful. The grave was dedicated by L. H. Hatch,
ANNIE CHALLIS,
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore it is resolved by the sisters of the
Franklin Relief Society,
	That we mourn the loss of our honored presi-
dent; but that we appreciate the goodness of her
life and the worthy example she has set us to fol-
low.
	Resolved that we extend to the bereaved our
sympathy, and pray God to comfort them, and
lead them to know what is their loss, is the gain of
those that were taken from them.
	Be it further resolved that a copy of these reso-
lutions be inscribed upon the records of the Soci-
ety and also published in the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT.
PRESIDENT ANNIE CHALLIS.
Franklin, Idaho.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	In memory of Mary I. Loveland of Deweyville,
Utah, who departed this life January 12th, 1906.
Deceased was born March 27th, 1861, she was the
daughter of Miles V. and Margaret M. Gardener,
and wife of Orson C Loveland. The deceased
was the mother of 10 children 9 girls and one boy.
	The officers of the Deweyville R. S. offer the
following resolutions:
	Whereas, our much esteemed sister and colabor-
er has by the hand of divine providence been re-
moved fr m our midst, and has, we feel confident-
ly assured gone to a better world, we her sisters,
who know of her loving deeds and appreciate her
many noble qualities, desire to express our tender
sympathy for the bereaved family and to acknowl-
edge her labors and ministrations of kindness as a
member of the R. S., and also as a friend and
neighbor in the best sense of the word. There-
fore be it
	Resolved we do humbly testify that charity and
humility were leading traits of her character, and
that she was a loving wife and mother; and be
it,
	Resolved that we, the sisters of the society of
which she was a member so long, may follow her
noble example of diligence and faithfulness,
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
our ward record, also to be printed in the Woman's
Exponent, and copies sent to the family.
	Hannah E. Loveland, President; Martha M.
Lish, Sec.; Bashua A. Chapman, Asst. Sec.
	In behalf of the Deweyville R. S.
SISTER ANNA M FOLKMAN.
	Sister Folkman passed away from this sphere of
action, March 26, 1906, after six weeks illne[-]s.
She was 84 years old the 5th of last February She
died as she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint;
beloved by all who knew her, surrounded by her
husband and family and kind and loving friends,
her last words being "Be united." Until her last
sickness she was able to do her own work and take
care of her husband.
	Sister Anna Maria Peterson, was the daughter
of Jence C. and Anna C. Peterson, was born Feb.
5, 1852, in the city of Rands, Jydlund, Denmark;
her mother died when she was five years old and
when she was 12 her father died, she had one
brother younger than herself; they were then left
to themselves. She passed through many hard
trials, and much severe sickness. She was mar-
ried to J. G. Folkman, in the spring of April 26,

[Column 3]
1848, was converted to the Gospel after having
heard it preached three times. She with her hus-
band was baptized Dec. 5, 1851. Emigrated in
1853, came to New Orleans in a sailing vessel, then
up the Mississippi to St. Louis She had cholera
twice and was healed each time by the power of
the priesthood. Came across the plains with ox
teams and walked the entire way, arrived in Salt
Lake City Oct. [-], 1854. Brother and Sister [-]olk-
man first settled in Lehi, from there went to Plain
City as pioneers, from there they were among the
first to sett[-]e in Soda Springs, Idaho, and were
among the first Saints to settle in Gentile Valley,
Idaho, in each of these places she held one or
more offices in the R. S. She was teacher and
treasurer in the R. S. when it was first organized
in the latter place, which off[-]e she held as long as
she was able. Not having any children of her
own she took a great interest in helping to raise
her husband's children. This dear sister passed
through much sickness, and all the horrors of the
crusade, which was very trying on her, had small
pox as late as 1900, by which she almost lost her
eyesight. Her faith was very great in the power
of healing by the priesthood, and she was ever
ready to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. After much suffering she passed peace-
fully away. Her complaint for the last few years
was chronic bronchitis, followed by dropsy.
	The funeral services of Sister Anna M. Folk-
man were held in the new meeting house at
Thatcher Ward, Idaho, March 29, 1906, Bishop
J T. Pond presiding. Singing by the choir,
"When first the glorious light of truth. prayer by
Brother Nelce. Graham. Singing, "Sister, tho[-]
wast mild and lovely." The speakers were Coun-
se[-]ors Geo. C. Peck, Patriarch W. Sterrit, John
B. Thatcher and Christopher Folkman, her Broth-
er-in-law, of Plain City, who gave a sketch of her
early life; they all bore testimony of her excellent
qualities and firm faith in the principles of the
Gospel of Christ, said her doors were ever open
and her table spread for the Saints and Elders and
she was ever on hand to assist the poor and her
motto was to "return good for evil." Spoke of the
glorious resurrection that awaits the faithful,
	Stake President L S. Pond heartily endorsed all
that had been said, spoke of her many good
qualities, said no one had ever done Sister Folk-
man a favor without getting threefold in return.
Spoke of what a glorious meeting it would be when
her husband would be permitted to meet her in the
mansion prepared for the faithful. Bishop J. T.
Pond made some very consoling remarks. Sing-
ing, "Farewell, all earthly honors." Benediction,
Counselor Geo. D. Anderson.
COM.
RENDINA OLSEN.
	Resolutions of respect to Sister Rendina Olsen
who departed this life June 4, 1906.
	Sister Olsen was born in New Hedemarken, Nor-
way, September, 1848; embraced the Gospel in
her childhood and came to Utah in 1866. Sister
Olsen was an active member of the Relief So[-]i[-]ty.
having acted as one of the counselors to the presi-
dent of that association for a great many years,
and we realize that we have lost a dear friend and
efficient co-laborer, and while we mourn the loss
of her society here, we also realize that our loss
is her gain, and she has gone to meet her reward,
far from the storms of mortal life.
	The funeral was held in the Santaquin Ward
meetinghouse, which had been beautifully decor-
ated.
	The services were conducted by Bishop J. M.
Holladay. The speakers paid a beautiful tribute
to her life and character in their remarks, and the
choir sang appropriate hymns.
	The beautiful casket that held the mortal remains
of Sister Olsen was loaded with floral gifts. A
broken wheel was presented by the members of
the society. Her remains were followed to the
cemetery by a large number of carriages. May
she rest in peace.
	Whereas, It has pleased the Great Creator to
take unto Himself our beloved sister who has been
a faithful worker in the Relief Society, never tir-
ing in well doing, a devoted friend to the poor and
a kind and loving wife and mother, therefore
be it
	Resolved, by the sisters of the Santaquin Re-
lief Society that we tender our sincere sympathy
to the bereaved family and relatives, and while
we mourn not as those who have no hope, yet we
realize that we have lost a faithful counselor who
died as she had lived, in the hope of a glorious res-
urrection.
	Resolved, That these resolutions be put upon the
records of the society and be sent to the EXPO-
NENT for publication.
ALICE ELLSWORTH, Sec’y.
Santaquin, July 13, 1906.


