[Column 2]
Portugal with the object of assisting the
women there to form National Councils.
The wife of the Chinese ambassador to
Great Britain has presented the matter to
the Empress of China, and Lady Aberdeen,
international president, has asked the
Empress, through Sir Ernest Satow,
British ambassador to China, if some Chi-
nese lady residing in Europe may be ap-
pointed as vice-president for China. The
Empress has authorized the Chinese am-
bassador to call upon Lady Aberdeen and
inform her that this would be done. So
out of all this tangle of official red tape
there may emerge an affiliation of Chi-
nese women with the International Coun-
cil. Through the kindness of His Excel-
lency Viscount Hayashi and Mr. and Mrs.
Alfred Stead, sojourning in Japan, the
question has been presented to many
prominent ladies in that country, and a
Japanese Council of Women is likely soon
to be added to the long list.
AMERICANS LET DOWN.
	In the beginning, American women hon-
estly believed that they were the ablest
in the world in every respect; that Ameri-
can men were the most just and liberal
in the world; that the United States
granted more freedom to women than any
country in the world. To the present
meeting came the women of Finland,
radiant with the victory of having gained
the full suffrage on exactly equal terms
with the men and the right to sit in Parlia-
ment, although their first Woman Suffrage
Association was formed less than two
years ago. The women of Australia and
New Zealand have had the full vote for
many years, and the former the right to
sit in Parliament. The women of Great
Britain. Sweden and Norway have every
form of the franchise except that for
members of Parliament, and the pros-
pects are encouraging for obtaining that
in the near future. Woman suffrage is a
government measure in Holland. It looks
as if the women of all the more progres-
sive countries would be enfranchised be-
fore those of the United States, and we
can no longer exploit the freedom and
liberality of our country at these interna-
tional meetings.
HONORS FROM THE CITY.
	During the Berlin congress, two years
ago, much prominence was given to the
recognition it received from the munici-
pality, the city appropriating 10,000
marks ($2,500) for a reception and ban-
quet to the delegates, and the entire body
of aldermen receiving them in state. This
action has been in a measure outdone by
the Municipal Council of Paris, which ap-
propriated 5,000 francs ($1,000) to be ex-
pended by the local committee of the
French National Council of Women on
this international meeting. The munici-
pal government did not stop with this, but
gave an afternoon reception for the dele-
gates in the magnificent Hotel de Ville-
After they were assembled in the hand-
some salon, the entire board of city fath-
ers came in and stood at attention before
them, while several of their number de-
livered addresses of welcome and sympa-
thetic encouragement. Then all were in-
vited to partake of the collation spread
on a long table in one end of the room
and served by immaculately-clad waiters.
	All the large theaters here, which are

[Column 3]
under national control, placed boxes at
the disposition of the council committee,
and delegates were entertained on Satur-
day evening with opera and drama which
lasted well into Sunday morning.
SOCIAL AFFAIRS.
	At the last intermational executive,
which was held in London, a resolution
was adopted that henceforth there should
be less in the way of social entertain-
ment, as this consumed time which ought
to be given to work. French hospitality,
however, has been superior to official re-
solves, and every day the delegates have
been entertained at beautifully appointed
luncheons of seven or eight courses.
Among the hostesses have been Madame
Jules Siegfried, wife of the cabinet min-
ster and Senator and Madame Alphen-
Salvador, founder of one of the large city
hospitals. A pleasant feature of these
luncheons has been that in every instance
the men of the family, husband and sons,
have been present to welcome the guests.
	The university women joined with the
Society for Political Equality—rather a
unique combination—to give an afternoon
tea for the delegates, at which many
clever speeches were made. All seemed
to be united in the demand for the higher
education and the right of suffrage. The
former is offered to women on the same
terms as men in the Sorbonne.
AMERICAN DELEGATES.
	Delegates to these meetings are limited
to the International Council officers, presi-
dents of National Councils and chairmen
of standing committees. Those from the
United States should have been Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift, president of the Na-
tional Council; Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
chairman of the committee on suffrage
and the rights of citizenship, and Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, honorary president
and chairman of the committee on peace
and arbitration. All were unable to come,
and their proxies are Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, and
the present writer. Ex.


