		UINTAH STAKE. 
	Minutes of the 39th Conference of
Uintah Stake Relief Society, held at
Maeser June 1, 1906.
	There were on the stand Sisters Emma
Woodruff and Clarissa S. Williams of the
General Board from Salt Lake City, all
the stake officers of Uintah Stake and a
good representation of ward officers, and
several brethren.
	President Sarah M. Colton presiding.
After the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, roll call and minutes, Sister Sarah
M. Colton said she was well pleased to
meet with the sisters, and to have the
privilege of having with us some of the
sisters from Salt Lake City of the general
board; she could not report the stake be-
cause circumstances had been such that
the stake had not been visited the last
quarter.
	Sister Hannah Odakirk reported Vernal
Relief Society, Sister Phoebe Hislop
Maeser Relief Society, and Sister Annie
Casper, Naples Relief Society.
	Recitation trom Glines Relief Society,
by Arrila Haddock, entitled “The Price
of a Drink.”
	Sister Emma Woodruff, one of the gen-
eral board, was pleased to meet with the
sisters once more; the duty of the Relief
Society was not only to look after the
poor but the souls of men, especially our
sons and daughters; spoke of economy;
it is our duty each and every one to try
and take care of what the husband brings
in to the house; spoke of patience, and of
our missionary work; gave the sisters
counsel in regard to gathering grain.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams of the gen-
eral board was pleased to meet with the
sisters in this far-off stake, and to see that
they are trying to work for the upbuilding
of the kingdom of God; said we should
try and love our neighbors as ourselves,
and to make everybody happy around us,
especially our children; gave the secre-
taries and treasurers counsel in regard to
their duties; asked the blessings of the
Lord upon us all.
	Select reading from Naples Relief Soci-
ety by Sister Edna Powell entitled “Our
Times.”
	Sister Annie Young related some of her
experiences as a missionary on the Sa-
moan Islands.
	Sister Nancy A. Colton spoke of the la-
bors of the sisters at home, especially
those with large families, and of the tes-
timonies we had heard, and what a grand
mission a mother has; gave the sisters a

[Column 3]
good deal of advice in regard to their du-
ties.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing and benediction.
	Afternoon session, President Sarah M.
Colton presiding. We continued our ser-
vices with the usual exercises of singing
and prayer.
	Counselor A. K. Bartlett spoke at some
length on Relief Society work; especially
the teachers; she also spoke of mothers
qualifying themselves so they would be
able to teach their children the principles
of the gospel.
	Sister Mary J. Hards reported Glines
Relief Society, Sister Mary J. Searle re-
ported Mt. Dell Relief Society, Sister Lid-
dia Wall reported Jensen Relief Society.
	Song from Vernal Relief Society by
Sister Jane Bennion.
	Sister Emma Woodruff thought by the
numbers present and the distance the sis-
ters had to travel, it showed all were in-
terested in their labors; she spoke on Re-
lief Society work; we should be kind to
the stranger and teach them the gospel.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams thought we
had heard enough from Sister Bartlett
for food for thought without any more;
she repeated a parable of a woman who
had faith in the Lord; spoke of being kind
to the stranger and the danger of drink,
card playing and forming bad habits.
	Sister Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks; felt to thank all for their
attendance.
	Conference adjourned for three months,
to be held at Glines Ward. Singing and
benediction.
