[Column 1]
from ward to ward helping the Bishops
to organize as indicated. From that time
onward the Society continued to grow
although there was no linking together
into one great whole until some years
later. In these earlier temporary socie-
ties she who stands at the head now was
diligent and faithful.
	It is not the purpose of this article to
tell the story, only to give a few pertinent
facts in relation to a society, that has
taken a very foremost place, not only as
an auxiliary in the Church of Latter-day
Saints, but it is known in the world outside,
among those not of our faith, as one of
the most flourishing organizations of wo-
men banded together for the higher ad-
vancement and permanent growth of all
that tends to the betterment and uplift-
ing of women; and of life itself in its de-
velopment religiously, socially, mentally,
morally, and physically.
	The Relief Society is not alone a charit-
able institution, but stands for all that
will tend to bless and elevate home life,
the community and the great common-
wealth; in short, the universal brother-
hood and sisterhood of the world. The
spirit of the work permeates the soul of
those actively engaged in the performance
of its duties and responsibilities. But it
is not the object of the writer to elabor-
ate, but to chronicle events in their order
as relating to the grand achievements so
far as it has progressed until the present
period of its status.
	As towns and settlements grew under
the direction of President Brigham Young,
and those associated with him in settling
and colonizing Utah, and the surrounding
territory, there was in every ward one of
these societies of sisters, each with its
perfect equipment of officers and teach-
ers, such helps as were necessary to take
care of all those who needed assistance
of whatever name or nature, and the
local society and the Bishop of the ward
and brethren associated with him worked
in unison and harmony in building up the
ward and looking after the public inter-
ests. Meetings were held by the sisters
regularly, weekly or semi-monthly accord-
ing to the conditions of the people and
the surroundings in the respective so-
ciety. Finally there came a time when
President Young thought best to solidify
the wards into stakes consisting of a num-
ber of ecclesiastical wards convenient to
group together, and appointed a president
and two counselors to preside over each
stake.
	This same theory was afterwards put in
practice with the organizations known in
each ward as the Relief Society, President
Brigham Young himself leading out in
this direction.
	On the 19th of July, 1877, Sister Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden City, who had
been for some time presiding over the
wards within the city, and had been suc-
cessful in promoting several kinds of
employment for women and girls, invited
President Brigham Young to come up
and attend a meeting in Ogden City, and
to bring with him those he wished to ac-
company him; meantime Sister Richards
had invited the sisters and brethren of
the county from far and near to attend
the meeting, little anticipating what
would transpire; President Young, his
Counselor, President D. H. Wells, and
some of the Apostles, Sister Eliza R.

