			(CONCLUDED.)

	Sister Hattie Blair of New York City
reported the Relief Seciety as not very
flourishing; some members have emigrat-
ed to Utah, and the members lived so
far apart it was difficult and expensive to
get together often. In Brooklyn the Re-
lief Society were studying Gospel books;
they have a number of young women in
that society, but as they are employed in
work they cannot always attend the
meetings; the sisters there would like to
have visitors from Utah sent to them.
	Sister Cannon, secretary pro tem., read
two communications from the First Presi-
dency, one treating on the storing of
grain and the other the “Word of Wis-
dom.”
	The Temple Quartette sang “Will there
be any stars in my crown?”
	Sister Julina L. Smith addressed the
conference. First thanked the singers for
their lovely music; said her heart was
filled with joy to see such a large audi-
ence; she only wanted to say a few words,
as she preferred to give the time to those
who had come a long distance; she had
been pleased with Brother Kimball’s re-
marks about the soldier boys; she never
saw the soldiers but what her heart ached,
and she knew it would always be a work
of credit to the Relief Society that they
had made this free donation to the sol-
diers in need.
	The speaker urged the parents to take
care of their daughters and keep them
safe from evil company, and not allow
them to associate with those not of our
faith, as marrying with them would only
bring unhappiness to their homes, and
the same with the boys; we want our
children to do right; prayed the Lord to
bless and help us to serve Him, and bless
our conference.
	President Martha Keeler of Utah Stake
appreciated the privilege of reporting the
stake; they had many good faithful sis-
ters; at the close of the past year they
had the misfortune of losing their presi-
dent, Sister Mary John; spoke of the pio-
neers, new buildings, new wards organ-
ized; said since the new officers had
been installed they had visited the entire
stake. In Provo City the Relief Society 
had four halls and four granaries. They
had over 4,000 bushels of wheat stored
and nearly four hundred dollars to buy
wheat; she felt the spirit of gathering
wheat was beautiful. They had taken
up the Mothers’ work systematically and
were also studying the Doctrine and
Covenants, and in that stake they were
especially interested in the nurse work.

