[Column 2]
women, in that early time shows they
“builded better than they knew.” Looking
back it is wonderful to contemplate, yet we
who know so much of the Prophet Joseph
cannot but believe that he foresaw what
the future of this important Society would
be. Emma Smith’s was the first ordina-
tion to this calling of any woman, and
took place many years before any of the
churches extant had ordained women
ministers. (Their names are all given in
the minutes of that meeting.) Only one
of all that number is living at the present
time, our honored and beloved President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. How emi-
nently appropriate that she should occu-
py the position of “Elect Lady” in this
ripe hour of the Society when it has at-
tained such permanency, and celebrity
throughout the world. Identified with it
as she has been from the very commence-
ment, and through the entire sixty-four
years and more, promoting in every pos-
sible way its best interests; she stands to-
day a living witness of its growth and de-
velopment through all the various stages
of its onward progress, and has always
been foremost in any great enterprise for
the women of Zion.
	From the little handful of sisters who
met on that ever memorable day, March
17, 1842, in the next two years the increase
in membership reached nearly 2,000, and
the amount of charity work was some-
thing marvelous for those early times
when womens’ organizations were un-
known. Strange indeed that these young
sisters—for they were all under forty
years, except one—should have asked for
organization, and given the Society
a name, the Relief Society, that has re-
mained with it, acceptable to all those
who have come into the ranks since; even
with the newer ideas and modern ad-
vancement among womankind; doubtless
the name will be held in honorable repute
while there are works of charity to be
done for suffering humanity, and while
there is need of kindly ministrations.
	The Relief Society could not operate
as an organized body of workers when the
people were scattered hither and thither,
at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
but the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
brought away the records, which was an
important part of the Society, and served
a legitimate purpose in reopening the
work after the Saints had gathered here
in these mountain vales.
	President Brigham Young following in
the footsteps of his predecessor, called
upon the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
in the year 1855, to go forth and assist
the Bishops of the various wards, (that
had been organized under his direction)
in organizing a Relief Society in each
ward. He suggested that she take as
her assistant Sister Zina D. Young.
	Previous to this there had been some
temporary organizations and charitable
work had been done necessary to the con-
ditions of the people living where the na-
tive Indians came freely among them, it
was positively necessary to provide some
clothing for them, as well as food. Much
of this was done by the sisters in these
temporary associations. To be sure there
was much to be done for neighbors and
friends, but little to handle in the way of
means until a few years had elapsed;
then came the time when permanent soci-
eties were provided as mentioned, and
Sister Eliza R. and Sister Zina D. went


