[Column 1]
she spent an afternoon in visiting her
ward she felt well paid in doing so; the
Lord had heard and answered her prayers;
reported her ward to be in a good condi-
tion. Sister Sarah A. Martin, Wilson,
said we should love and respect each
other, and have charity toward all, and
reported the Wilson Ward to be in good
condition.
	Bishop Albern Allen Bingham, of the
Middleton Ward, said it was interesting
to listen to the experiences of our moth-
ers; it seemed harder for the younger
generation to remain faithful on account
of the temptations surrounding them; was
thankful to have lived so that he could
hold the priesthood, and he knew that
there was power in it.
	Sister Mary J. Maycock, of Pleasant
View, hoped that we would put into
practice the good instructions which we
had received, and that we should pay
more attention to our spiritual than to our
temporal affairs; she felt that whenever
we meet in this building we enjoy a good
peaceful spirit; reported the Pleasant
View Ward as doing well. Sister Bing-
ham, Middleton Ward. said they have
their meetings every Thursday, they have
a glorious time. and reported the Middle-
ton Ward as doing a good work.
	Singing, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.”
	Sister Richards extended an invitation
to those present to bear their testimonies,
and testimonies were borne by Sisters
Frances Wood, North Ogden, Sister Niel-
son, Huntsville. Sister Helena Lee, of
Far West, a Sister from Plain City,
Sister A. M. Bailey, Mound Fort, and
Sister Stove Thomas of Lynne.
	President Richards instructed the sis-
ters to hold their meetings once a week
if possible, as that was one of the pur-
poses of the organization; wished the sis-
ters to remember Sister Brown in their
prayers and in their meetings, and also
Sister Herrick, who years ago was one of
her counselors, but now resides in Logan;
prayed that we might always have the
Spirit of the Lord to be with us.
	Sister Emily M. Shurtliff said that we
had heard so many good things that she
felt she could not add anything further,
that she had visited Sister Brown, and
her health was about the same, but that
she was always the same sweet woman,
wished the sisters to remember her in
their prayers and in their meetings;
prayed the Lord to bless all, that we may
remain loyal to the truth.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie felt that he
had been greatly blessed in listening to
the sisters, spoke of visiting a sister who
was compiling a genealogy. said it was a
pleasure to him on account of the faithful
testimony she bore; we should try to help
those who have temptations placed in
their way, for there are those who need
this care; felt grateful to know that testi-
monies were increasing among us, that
the young often bear a strong testimony;
asked the Lord to bless this organization,
and all like organizations, and Sister

