[Column 2]
dinner was progressing, the Saltair band
came down stairs and played in the lower
pavilion. There was a splendid crowd,
and the day was most enjoyable. These
annual outings of the sisters are occa-
sions when without formality they can
join in one common pleasure, and the dif-
ferent societies become acquainted with
each other. We hope each year there
will be an increase in numbers and more
enjoyment.

	LECTURES.—Salt Lake has not been
considered a good lecture town. The
people throng to the play, light opera and
the resorts; are great lovers of music, but
rather taboo the lecturer. In a city
where so many fine literary clubs exist
and a splendid State University, not to
mention other fine institutions of learn-
ing are situated, it seems strange indeed
that Salt Lake should have such a name;
but recently through the lecture bureau
of the M. I. A. and the Summer School,
we are advancing somewhat in that re-
spect, and the people are beginning to
educate a taste for fine talk. Time was
when great speakers like Henry Ward
Beecher, Henry Watterson, General Lew
Wallace and others have given some of
their most brilliant talks to almost empty
houses, and even now we doubt if the
famed talkers of today chose the theatre
for a platform if the audience would be
what it should.
	An evening with some fine lecturer is
always profitable and pleasant, and the
work of the lecture bureau is certainly
commendable both from an entertaining
and educational standpoint.
	Recently Dr. Hughes, the famous ed-
ucator of Toronto, Canada, delighted the
teachers and friends of the University
Summer School with some of the finest
lectures we have heard, full of good
thought, and giving rich and fruitful ideas
to the parent and the teacher and delight-
ful for any one. The story telling lec-
tures of Miss Sara C. Bryant were also
amusing and helpful, and the public are
surely better by cultivating a taste for fine
lectures.

	CANYONS AND RESORTS.—In the midst
of summer, when the air in town is so
oppressive, and the sun heats the pave-
ments until the feet blister with walking
on them, and besides the year’s work
makes one long for change and rest, it is
delightful to be so situated that a short
ride by car or team can take one into the
most beautiful refreshing places.
	Near Salt Lake we have many such
places, and every day hundreds of people
avail themselves of them. Every after-
noon the cars are simply packed, carry-
ing the crowds laden with lunch boxes to
Saltair, the Lagoon and Calder’s Park,
while coach loads are frequently seen
seeking the more quiet resorts in the
canyons, Brighton, Wasatch, the Arm
Chair and City Creek. There is life and
health and pleasure lurking in all these
places, and they are a blessing to us if we


enjoy them properly, but there is also
danger if we allow an excess of pleasure.
Especially should the young folks guard
against anything that would lead to their
injury; for instance, excess in dancing,
very late trains and going off without
proper chaperonage. Loud laughter and
rudeness are too often evident among our
young people during their pleasure trips,
and while a pure enjoyment of life and
all good things is to be sought after, a
proper regard for the proprieties is to be
admired in every one.
