Lessons for December
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony
(First Week in December)
THE TWELVE APOSTLES
1. Their Call and Ordination. In the selection of the Twelve, Jesus consulted his Father the entire night preceding the day on which the Twelve were chosen. "And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God." Luke 6:12. There can be no doubt that this night of communion was spent, in part at least, in considering the choice of the Twelve. We have the Savior's declaration that the Twelve were of his own choosing. "And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples; and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles." Luke 6:13. The Son presents a reverential acknowledgment of the Twelve as a gift from his Father. "And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me that they may be one, as we are." John 17:11. The Twelve were chosen with a three-fold, immediate object; to be with the Savior as special witnesses of what he did; and to testify, by the power of the Holy Ghost, as to whom he was; to officially preach his gospel; and to rebuke evil. "And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, And to have power to heal sickness, and to cast out devils." Mark 3:14, 15. "But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me: And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning." John 15:26-27.
2. The Twelve Were Objects of His Prayers. The Twelve were special objects of the prayers of Jesus; he prayed for them as individuals and as a group. At the last supper, the Master said: "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat: But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren." Luke 22:31-32. "I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine." John 17:9. "Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast
LESSON DEPARTMENT 529
given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world." John 17:24. The Twelve were objects of his special care as well as of his prayers. "For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me: and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me." John 17:8.
3. Members Protected against Personal Ambition. The members of the Twelve were protected against the possibility of preference based on personal ambition. "And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire. "And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you? "They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory. "But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink of the cup that I drink of? And be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? "And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of: and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: "But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared. "And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John. "But Jesus called them to him and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them. "But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister: "And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all. "For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many." Mark 10:35-45.
4. The Twelve were Shown their Limitation as Men. In fulfilment of the Master's words, the weakness of Peter and the inability of the others were revealed. Not one of them could watch in that darkest of all hours when Christ was under the weight of the sins of the world, and enemies on his trail, not one of them could watch while he prayed. And during his trial he was thrice denied by the one who had most confidence in himself. "And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. "And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because


of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the Shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. "But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. "But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. "And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. "But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all. "And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane; and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray. "And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy; "And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch. "And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. "And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me; nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt. "And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Couldst not thou watch one hour? "Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak. "And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words. "And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him. "And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. "Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand."?Mark 14:26-42. "And they all forsook him, and fled. * * * * "And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes. "And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire." Mark 14:50, 53-54. "And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest: "And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth. "But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew. "And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 531
"And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilean, and thy speech agreeth thereto. "But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. "And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept." Mark 14:66-72.
5. The Twelve Scattered by Vocational Interests. The Twelve were scattered by their vocational interests and were called back to the ministry by the resurrected Redeemer. "After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he himself. "There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. "Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They said unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing. "But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. "Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. "And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes." John 21:1-6. "So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord: thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. * * * * "He saith to him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep." John 21:15, 17.
6. Council of Twelve Made Complete. The Council of the Twelve was completed by the ordination of Matthias and the work was carried on in the name of Jesus Christ, by these witnesses of the resurrection. Peter, the chief apostle, says: "Wherefore of these men which have companioned with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, "Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection." Acts 1:21-22.
7. The Personnel of the Twelve. In the personnel of the Twelve there was a striking variety:


There was the stern impetuous Peter; the vehement, aspiring James and John; the highly spiritual Andrew; the practical Phillip; the guileless Bartholomew (Nathanael); the liberal-minded Matthew; the skeptical Thomas; the dependable James; the slow-thinking Judas; the zealous Simon Zelotes; and the untrustworthy Judas Iscariot. At least seven of them were fishermen. The eleven who were saved were Galileans. The last one was a Judean. All were from the ranks of the common people. For an interesting and illuminating treatment of the Twelve, as individuals, the student is referred to Jesus the Christ, by Talmage, pages 218-226.
Questions and Problems
1. What are the evidences that the Twelve were the joint choice of the Father and the Son?
2. Give scriptural proof that the Twelve were chosen, ordained, and named apostles by Jesus. (Mark 3:14, Luke 6:13.)
3. When and where were the Twelve ordained? (Mark 3:13, 14; Luke 6:13.)
4. What lesson in family life and in Church leadership may be drawn from the fact that Jesus prayed for the Twelve individually and collectively?
5. Name the three major purposes of choosing the Twelve.
6. What great obligation of parenthood and Church leadership is pointed to by the words of Jesus recorded in John 17:8 and 12?
7. How was Peter three times reminded that he was loving something more than his mission? (John 21:2, 3, 15, 16, 17.)
8. Give scriptural evidence that the Twelve are to be with the Savior in heaven. (John 14:2, 3.)
9. What is the most valuable thought suggested by this lesson?
LESSON II
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER. HOME TALKS?WHAT JESUS SAID
If ye love me, keep my commandments. John 14:15.
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. John 14:21.
I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst. John 6:35.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 533
Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. Luke 9:58.
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God. Matthew 5:8.
No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. Matthew 6:24.
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. Matthew 5:7.
Forgive and ye shall be forgiven. Luke 6:37.
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you. Matthew 6:14.
Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. Matthew 18:15.
It is more blessed to give than to receive. Acts 20:35.
Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again. Luke 6:38.
A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. John 13:34.
By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love one to another. John 13:35.
But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you. Luke 6:27.
And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise. Luke 6:31.
Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. Matthew 22:37, 40.
Have faith in God. Mark 11:22.
According to your faith be it unto you. Matthew 9:29.
I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: John 11:25.
I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. John 10:10.
Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Matthew 11:28.
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. Luke 21:33.


Literature
LESSON III
(Third Week in December)
SARA TEASDALE
Sara Teasdale is one of the best loved of the new poets. She has taken to heart the old dictum that sincerity is of prime importance in all literature. In her own practice she does not vary from this belief. The sincerity may be actual, or it may be imaged, but it must always be real. She has given us a group of love poems that will appeal to persons of sincere emotions. Miss Teasdale was born August 8, 1884, in a city and state that has not produced an unusual number of poets. Her birthplace, close to the broad waters of the Mississippi river, is St. Louis, Missouri. There she obtained her education, which was added to materially, as was Amy Lowell's, through travel in Europe and in the Near East. She was married to Ernest B. Filsinger, in 1914, the year of the outbreak of the World War. Her husband, also a writer, is not of the poetic order; he writes rather serious books on foreign trade. Mr. and Mrs. Filsinger moved to New York City in 1916. Sara Teasdale had written some three or four books when she issued her Love Songs, in 1917. These songs are appreciated by many readers in many lands for she has had many of her poems translated into other languages. Her Night Song at Amalfi is pleasing. One of the famous drives in Italy is what is known as the Amalfi drive. One usually leaves Sorrento, the city where Francis Marion Crawford wrote many of his books, and driving along the line of the Mediterranean Sea, observes a vast country where grape vines and fruit trees grow. It is this stretch of country that makes real something of the largeness attributed to the Roman Empire. Finally after a drive of several hours one finds oneself in the medieval city of Amalfi, with its great church overlooking the fountain of the square. It was while thinking of this place that Sara Teasdale wrote Night Song at Amalfi:
NIGHT SONG AT AMALFI
I asked the heaven of stars What I should give my love? It answered me with silence, Silence above.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 535
I asked the darkened sea, Down where the fishermen go? It answered me with silence, Silence below.
Oh, I could give him weeping, Or I could give him song? But how can I give silence My whole life long?
This little love song, a very sincere tribute to the lover, is unique among American love songs. Spring Night while it comes from her collection of poems entitled Rivers to the Sea is nevertheless a love song. It is a refutation of the idea of substituting one desirable thing for another. Every once-in-a-while some philosopher will suggest that the appreciation of the beautiful may be substituted for the religious emotion or for love. Experience teaches us that such is not the fact, that the appetite of the spirit is in that respect not unlike the physical appetite. If the appetite craves that which is sweet, it is useless to offer bread and meat. The hunger may be satisfied but the longing still remains. If the soul reaches out for spiritual comfort, beauty in nature will not suffice. It is such a philosophy that Sara Teasdale presents in Spring Night.
SPRING NIGHT
The park is filled with night and fog, The veils are drawn about the world, The drowsy lights along the paths Are dim and pearled.
Gold and gleaming the empty streets, Gold and gleaming the misty lake, The mirrored lights like sunken swords, Glimmer and shake.
Oh, is it not enough to be Here with this beauty over me? My throat should ache with praise, and I Should kneel in joy beneath the sky.
O beauty, are you not enough? Why am I crying after love, With youth, a singing voice, and eyes To take earth's wonder with surprise?
Why have I put off my pride, Why am I unsatisfied,? I, for whom the pensive night Binds her cloudy hair with light,?
I, for whom all beauty burns Like incense in a million urns? O beauty, are you not enough? Why am I crying after love?


Before turning to another poem we wish to draw attention to the diction of this poem. Sara Teasdale, like many of her group, has power to select words that make pictures or images that appeal to the senses. Take this first stanza of the Spring Night, line by line: "The park is filled with night and fog." Picture number one. "The veils are drawn about the world, the drowsy lights along the paths are dim and pearled. Gold and gleaming the empty streets, gold and gleaming the misty lake, the mirrored lights like sunken swords, glimmer and shake." See if you can imagine these pictures, selecting the most colorful words in them. The Long Hill records an experience that is certainly familiar to persons who climb hills and roam over mountains.
THE LONG HILL
I must have passed the crest a while ago And now I am going down? Strange to have crossed the crest and not to know, But the brambles were always catching the hem of my gown.
All the morning I thought how proud I should be To stand there straight as a queen, Wrapped in the wind and the sun with the world under me? But the air was dull, there was little I could have seen.
It was nearly level along the beaten track, And the brambles caught in my gown? But it's no use now to think of turning back, The rest of the way will be only going down.
Wisdom is a poem that puts over a bit of real philosophy of life:
WISDOM
It was a night of early spring, The winter-sleep was scarcely broken; Around us shadows and the wind Listened for what was never spoken.
Though half a score of years are gone, Spring comes as sharply now as then? But, if we had it all to do It would be done the same again.
It was a spring that never came; But we have lived enough to know That what we never have, remains; It is the things we have that go.
In the last stanza we are told, "It was a spring that never came; but we have lived enough to know that what we never have, remains; it is the things we have that go." Just so long
LESSON DEPARTMENT 537
as we image a thing and live it in the imagination we have it. Sometimes when the actual experience is ours, we are disillusioned and we lose it. We have a little picture of the quiet English landscape such as one sees in Sussex, England, in Miss Teasdale's poem entitled On the South Downs. The English skylark proves irresistible to Sara Teasdale, the American poet, as it has proved irresistible to English poets from Chaucer to Harold Begbie:
ON THE SOUTH DOWNS Over the downs there were birds flying, Far off glittered the sea, And toward the north the weald of Sussex Lay like a kingdom under me. I was happier than the larks That nest on the downs and sing to the sky? Over the downs the birds flying Were not so happy as I. It was not you, though you were near, Though you were good to hear and see; It was not earth, it was not heaven, It was myself that sang in me. She tells us that she was happier than the larks "that nest on the downs and sing to the sky." Yet the poet tells us it was not heaven, "it was myself that sang to me." ?This is Sara Teasdale's way of telling us that the power to appreciate the beautiful is within; expressed by another in this manner, "Any sincere appreciation of beauty is proof of beauty in one's self." THE ANSWER When I go back to earth And all my joyous body Puts off the red and white That once had been so proud, If men should pass above With false and feeble pity, My dust will find a voice To answer them aloud: "Be still, I am content, Take back your poor compassion!? Joy was a flame in me Too steady to destroy. Lithe as a bending reed Loving the storm that sways her? I found more joy in sorrow Than you could find in joy." 
 Questions and Problems 1. Stress some lines of Sara Teasdale's poetry that are indicative of her sincerity. 2. What prose writer included in the lessons of this year knew the State of Missouri and wrote a book about its famous river? 3. Select a group of words from the poems of Sara Teasdale that you would call "colorful." 4, What is the poet thinking of when she speaks of putting "off the red and white." Do you think the expression apt? 5. What new ideas have been stimulated through reading Sara Teasdale? LESSON VI. Social Service (Fourth Week in December ) INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS Mavis The story of Mavis is not such a very unusual one. She is a fifteen-year-old girl, with a mental capacity of a ten-year-old child. It has been estimated that from five to ten per cent of the population fall in the same mental classification as Mavis. About ten children in every hundred in school are attempting to perform lessons which are too difficult for them. About ten men in every hundred are struggling to carry the responsibilities of adulthood, with the mental equipment of ten or twelve-year-old children. As many women in every hundred, with the same limited intelligence, are expected to assume the care of a household and the responsibility of rearing and training a family.; Persons who measure, intellectually, as Mavis does, are termed "morans." Her Intelligence Quotient is 70, which places her high in the group. The table of classification (page 76 Challenge of Childhood) of values ascribed to Intelligence Quotient, places individuals with I. Q's between 50 and 70 in the "moran" group. These persons have definite deficiency in mental powers and cannot be expected to compete successfully with normal or superior in-? dividuals. The persons in this group are part of the larger classification known as "feeble-minded." The other two classifications, the "idiot" (I. Q. Below 25) and the imbecile (I. Q. 25 to 50) have a far greater mental handicap. They are much more helpless, often not having the ability to learn to walk or talk. Usually the most humane treatment for these unfortunates is permanent institutional care, where under expert guidance they can be taught simple useful tasks. LESSON DEPARTMENT 539 But Mavis and the great number of other "children who never grow up" present a more difficult social problem than the lower deficients who need and appreciate permanent custodial care. "Morans" or adults with eight or ten-year-old minds, cannot all be placed in institutions. In the. First place, the burden on the State would be too severe because of the number. Besides, these individuals frequently have certain powers and abilities that make social adjustment outside an institution possible. The individuals in this mental group vary as much as individuals in the normal group. There are all stages of skill or lack of skill in mental functioning just as there are all stages between physical health and fatal illness. The mental deficient lacks the power to perform all the things that a normal person does, but he thay be able to do one or two things very well. Perhaps the most current idea that is not based on fact is that mentally deficient persons are delinquent and vicious. The deficient person is not inherently more delinquent than the normal person. He is more gullible than a normal person, and is easily led into debt and financial trouble. When the heavy load of adult worries becomes too heavy for him, he may seek some childish escape?such as deserting his family and his debts, or embezzling small funds, or permitting his children to ask for pennies on the Streets. Such conduct naturally brings him to the attention of the courts, but only because he is the victim of his own limitations. It is not viciousness nor criminal tendencies that motivates his behavior.. The person with limited intelligence has the same desire as the normal person to live peaceably and agreeably with his family and neighbors, but the strain of competing in our modern industrial world is too much for his ten-year-old mind, and he acts with the' lack of judgment and forethought that a ten-year-old child would display under the same circumstances. The mentally deficient should not be considered as chronic and hopeless delinquents, when brought to court on charges of desertion, neglecting children, or even on charges of stealing, forgery, etc. A term in prison is as ineffective and unjust as the same prison sentence would be to a ten-year-old boy if he took his brother's or neighbor's bicycle. To punish persons for acts that seem reasonable to their intelligence is obviously futile and unfair. The "moran" at court or in financial difficulties is in need of protection?not punishment. He needs help in finding a mode of living not too complex for his limited powers. He needs help in developing such powers as he has to their highest level. Early: discovery of the person with limited intelligence is important. It is possible then to provide special training in trade or vocational schools, saving him the long, unhappy experience of repeated failure in formal school work, which robs him of his confidence and self-respect. He should be saved the demoralizing experience of school failure, and be given an opportunity to find 
 satisfaction in the accomplishment of something he has the ability to do. He will be much happier, and later economically useful, by learning to be a good artisan than by sitting and suffering through long years of academic work which always will be meaningless to him. Early training can save the "moran" from later social failure. He can be trained to usefulness as well as the normal person. He can be trained to be self-supporting, law-abiding, and self-respecting. Custodial care for the majority of this group is not necessary if intelligent training and guidance and supervision is given them outside an institution. Mavis has every opportunity to make a fair adjustment in her own home. Her parents have been told that it is not advisable for her to marry, as the probability is that her children, too, would be mentally handicapped. Because of the family's financial position, she will not need to enter the industrial world. It is possible, though, for her to be useful and find happiness in some activity, gardening, needlecraft or cooking. Had Mavis been the daughter of poor parents and had to face the responsibility of making her own living, the need of training for some useful occupation would have been more urgent. Just as Mavis must turn to some simple craft for expression, so must a person in less comfortable circumstances turn to a simple craft or trade, and by becoming proficient in it, find economic independence. While the majority of "morans" can be assisted to a fair social adjustment in community life, there will be a number who are additionally handicapped by anti-social tendencies who will need. Institutional care. Most states have recognized the responsibility of caring for the mentally deficient, who are exploited or are a menace to society, by providing institutions for them. Our own state has no facilities for their care, except a small building in connection with the State. Mental Hospital. The capacity there for the care of the feeble-minded is about one hundred, which is entirely inadequate. Reference?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, pages 133-138. Questions and Problems 1. What are the three classifications of the '"feeble-minded?" 2. Why should the two lower groups have custodial care? 3. Why is it not advisable to place all ?morans" in institutions? 4. What special training should be given in the schools for persons like Mavis? 5. Are there any special classes or trade schools in your community? 6. What custodial care does the state provide? Is this adequate? What are the Food Habits of Utah Farm Families? P. V. Cardon Department of Farm Economy, Utah Agricultural Experiment Station With the origin of the food which three times daily graces your family dining table, you may or may not be deeply concerned. If you live in town, the chances are that you never give so much as a fleeting thought to the farms on which your food was produced, or to the persons concerned with its regular production and distribution. Town dwellers are concerned merely with the problem of getting the food from the market and paying for it. But if you live on a farm, this problem presents itself in a different shape, with many more angles to it, and with a more direct bearing on the welfare of your family. Whereas the town dweller may go into the markets and select foods from all parts of the country, being limited in choice only by her ability to pay the price asked for produce assembled from widely separated districts, the woman on the farm is limited to a much narrower range of choice. She may have to choose entirely from her own kitchen garden which, because of soil, climate or lack of ample irrigation water, may be limited as to variety, quality and quantity, despite the fact that she may have been able to get seeds and have the garden tract properly prepared. Under more favorable: circumstances, of course, she may have a wider choice of garden produce for family feeding. To her garden produce also, she may be able to add eggs, milk and some meat products, all of which may have been produced on the farm. Still the fact remains that, unless the farm does produce ample supplies of fresh eggs, clean milk and wholesome meat products, her choice, compared with that of her urban sister, is limited. Again, because of poor roads or inadequate means of transportation she may be unfavorably located as regards markets at which to purchase those foods which cannot be grown on the farm. And to this must be added the complicating factor of attitude on the part of the farm family toward the whole question of food: their information concerning foods essential to an adequate diet and their willingness to make the necessary effort to produce these essentials. Farmers in general are willing to expend a maximum effort 
 to grow a commercial crop, in the production of which most of the work can be accomplished by means of machinery and horses or tractors; but the vegetable garden, along with the family orchard, the family cow, the pigs and the chickens, must be attended usually by some other member of the family, perhaps the mother herself. If the father is not convinced that the kitchen garden, the fruit trees, the cow, the pig and the hen are essential to his family's welfare, the chances are good that these faithful contributors to the family income?these health insurance agency?will receive personal attention only if mother and the smaller children are inclined and can find time to care for them. As to what Utah farms do supply in the way of food for the families living on them, there is an abundant lack of dependable information, The U. S. Department of Agriculture, on the basis of a survey made in 1922, advises that the average Utah farm produces 64.6 per cent of the food consumed by the farm family, and that an additional 13.8 per cent is produced locally. But apparently there is no available information as to just what comprises this home-produced 64.6 per cent of the family diet, whether it contains sufficient variety, or whether the different varieties of food are produced in amounts to insure proper nutrition of the farm family, even when added to the 35.4 per cent of the diet not produced at home. To determine what foods and in what quantities the farms of Utah are contributing toward the health and general welfare of the families who operate these farms, is the object of a study now being make by the Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, under provisions of the Purnell Bill, recently enacted by Congress. No attempt is to be made to determine in this study what the farms might or could do in the way of supplying food for farm families; it will be confined to an effort to, ascertain exactly what Utah farms, under existing conditions, do contribute to farm family tables. The study will be made state-wide by selecting communities throughout the state that are representative of the various major conditions defined by differences in soil, water supplies, location as regards markets, and other factors affecting living conditions. In each such community, a group of representative families will be persuaded to keep yearly records of the foods used each day, which have been produced on their own farms. Already the matter of record keeping is well advanced in certain communities that have been selected, and groups of farm women in other communities are displaying an. Interest that probably will lead to early cooperation in the furtherance of this study, which is being directed by Mrs. Almeda Perry Brown. Any other groups who may be interested should communicate with Mrs. Brown at the Experiment Station, Logan, Utah.