Aunt Hannah Sharp and the Muddy Mission
Ramona Wilcox Cannon
Gone were the girlhood days of Hannah Neslen: the numbered days of schooling; the days of singing and reciting as a child before the public; the days of going to quiltings with her mother when she was so small that a book had to be placed on her chair to raise her high enough to do her bit along with the women. The fifties were likewise the days when it was almost unheard of to purchase a cake of soap even for the face. Hannah, as a child, was quite capable of making soap for the family. "If you wanted white soap," she explains, "you had to watch the fat when you tried it out, to see that it did not burn or get too brown. And then before you poured the soap into the tub, after it was boiled, you had to strain it so it would be nice and clean. And you mustn't forget to put water in the wooden tub before pouring in the hot soap, if you didn't want it to stick. Then when it was cooling, you took a knife and cut it into bars and finished drying them on a plank in the sun. Hannah was twenty-two, and young John Sharp, her finance, had returned from his three year mission, and she had married "the nice, quiet boy" whom she had loved ever since she had watched him at eleven driving an ox team from the canyon past her house when "you couldn't tell him from the dust he was covered with." Father Sharp had given them a two-room adobe cottage with windows that opened out, like doors, French style. Her father had made a stand which he had given her on her sixteenth birthday. The other pieces of furniture, a rocking chair, six dining rooming chairs, a sofa, table and bed, were made by her brother-in-law, William Foster, a turner. Then there was a gay rag carpet to brighten things up. 
 It was indeed a cozy little home, set in the midst of a fine young fruit orchard, and they loved it dearly. The young wife took pride in caring for both house and orchard. Even the bride of that period was no lady of leisure. Young Mrs. Sharp washed, picked and carded, with a fine wire hand-card, fluffy bats of wool for quilts. She would knit and crochet. She was quick at running wicks through candle moulds, and tying big enough knots at the bottom to let no tallow drip through. Beef suet and mutton tallow were duly converted into candles by the busy young housewife. There were plums, peaches, beans, corn, tomatoes and herbs to be dried for winter, and crocks of tasty preserves to be prepared from the orchard fruits and the molasses extracted from home-grown sugar cane. A wonderful and happy year the two young people spent together, and then, alas, came acquaintance with grief. For a daughter was born, loved with all the fervor and imagination that. Would be the portion of the first baby of an adoring and youthful couple—but almost immediately it's little life slipped back inte eternity. We have been told (a time or so) that troubles do not come singly. In this case, only nine days after the birth of her child, before Sister Sharp had been able to sit up, the brethren came to. The house in her husband's absence as it chanced, and told her she had been called to go with her husband to the Muddy mission. She fainted at the news. THE MUDDY RIVER AUNT HANNAH SHARP 495 No one in those days elected to be called on a mission to settle Dixie—least of all to go to the Muddy, which was situated ninety miles beyond St. George in a blistering alkali desert. There was a song popular at the time, composed by some man, now unknown, who had passed through the Dixie experience, which expressed people's views in regard to the Dixie mission. Some of the verses 'follow: Once I lived in Cottonwood And owned a little farm. They called me south to Dixie, Which gave me much alarm. The reason why they called on me, I'm sure I do not know, But to hoe the cane and cotton, I right away must go. I yoked up Jim and Bally, All for to make a start, To leave my home and garden It almost broke my heart. We rode along quite slowly, And often looked behind, For the rocks and sands of Dixic Were running through my mind. When we got down to Sandy I broke my wagon down, I couldn't find a carpenter; I was twenty miles from town. So I cut a clumsy cedar, And made an awkward slide, And the wagon rode so heavy, That poor Betsy could not ride. When we got down to Blackridge. I thought I'd stay awhile,. To see if April showers Would make the Virgin smile. But I found I was mistaken IT had to go away; For the red hills of November, Were just the same in May. When I got down to Washington, I couldn't go at all. For poor old Jim and Bally Commenced to puff and loll. I whipped and swore a little, But couldn't make the route, For myself and team and Betsy Were all of us give out. I sold my wagon for sorghum seed To get a little bread, For poor old Jim and Bally, Had long ago been dead. 
 My shirt is colored with dockroot, With greasewood, for a set, I'm 'fraid the colors will all fade out, As soon as they get wet. * * * * There's no one left but me and Betsy To hoe the cotton tree. May heaven reward the Dixie-ite, Wherever he may be. To Aunt Hannah, with her home-loving heart, her spent strength, and her deep grief so fresh in her life, the thought of leaving her little cottage and her parents and friends, and Zion, was almost intolerable. She continued so frail that her husband advised her to remain behind until she was stronger. He would answer the call and go with the fifty or seventy-five families and make a home for her to come to later. But she would not listen. Never had she needed her husband as she needed him then. "I cannot live here without both you and my baby," she said, "For love of you I am going when you go." And so her family helped her pack her few treasured possessions, with farm implements, and what provisions were at hand, principally the dried fruits, vegetables and herbs, and the molasses. At length, the covered wagon was loaded for another month's trek in the desert. The Sharps and the Neslens and many friends watched their departure. John helped his wife step on the hub of the wheelsand mount the high spring seat. Then taking the lines he drove away, the crowd, especially Sister Neslen, weeping and waving goodbye to them. The young wife turned, and as long as her dear ones were in sight, she watched them from under the fan-like frill of her "Shaker" bonnet—wan but determined. The company left Salt Lake in the middle of November, just six weeks after the birth of Aunt Hannah's baby. In the party were many young missionaries who had recently returned from labors in Europe. President Young had asked them to marry and take their wives with them. So a number of hasty weddings were celebrated before the date of departure. Two daughters of President Young were members of this company, Mrs. Ellie Empey and Mrs. Rindie Conrad, who had a young baby; also Mrs. Louie Felt, Mrs. Lenora Horne Spencer and Sam Hill and his wife Audrey, who died in confinement shortly after their arrival at St. Thomas. Asked regarding dresses, Aunt Hannah replied, "You wore a challie dress or anything you had left." From the first there were some amusing phases of the trip. One was that many of the pilgrims carried a crate of chickens at AUNT. HANNAH SHARP 497 the rear of their wagon, and when the caravan was going down hill, or when for some reason traffic became congested, the tongue of the following wagon would poke into the chicken's midst, creating a storm of cackling protest, and sometimes furnishing a chicken dinner. Creak! Creak! Creak! Over the dusty roads and around the bare mountains. No prescription, this for convalescence. The silent, thoughtful husband would fluff the pillows at his wife's back and anxiously watch her pale face with its dark-ringed eyes, weary head, aching back, and tired limbs from the day-long jolting and the nights of sleeping in the wagon box. Winds and storms, inadequate food, fear of Indians, was their portion. Yet there came a time when in spite of sorrow and weariness, one evening, as the young pair sat on the tongue of the wagon in the hush of twilight, John could say, "Hannah, can't you sing to me?" and Hannah found that she could. After that life was sweeter to them both, and her songs lightened the wearisome journey. The young wife did not recover her normal health, however. By the time they camped at Indian Creek she was suffering from a gathering in her ear, which was not helped by the severe snow storm that came up. Too wretched to prepare food, Aunt Hannah was huddled in the seat, her head bundled in a woolen scarf, while her husband prepared a bed as best he could in the storm, on the-floor of the wagon box. One of the brethren of the camp came to him to ask if he would go back a mile and a half to the creek to help out one of the men. So he wrapped a buffalo robe around him and drove his mules through the sleet and snow to rescue this brother who, with a single span of mules, had been hauling a load of two ton besides his wife and child and motherin-law. He was floundering in the bed of the stream, but with the additional pull of Brother Sharp's mules, was able to get up the steep bank and reach camp. Sister Sharp in her bed was suffering and weeping and wondering if the wind would not quite blow away John and his mules with him. But he returned, administered to Hannah; then held his hand over the aching ear to furnish a little heat to ease the pain. Suddenly she cried, "Oh John, it's bursted!" © They extracted some wool for: the emergency from the corner of the bed quilt. The pain was much relieved and after awhile both could sleep. Next morning their was a foot of snow on the ground, and a long cold drive through Beaver canyon ahead of the missionaries. Hannah, weak and coughing seriously, once more mounted the spring seat. The snow would gather into balls on the mules' hoofs, getting larger with each step, until at length, of its own weight it rolled off and the process would begin again, as the poor creatures 
 pulled up grade and slipped down hill. A drizzling rain had set in to add to the discomfort of both man and beast. _ At Beaver they camped in the tithing-office yard, around a log fire, but it was raining hard and so a number of the people of the settlement took the missionaries into their homes. Sister Fotheringham came out to Aunt Hannah with a real umbrella, and exclaimed on seeing her, "You dear soul, how sick you look!” She conducted her to the house which was clean, and white-washed and delightful. For several days the traveler had not had a cooked meal, and the dinner was indeed a feast, with its home-made biscuits and roast beef and mashed potatoes, and a very special treat—strawberry jam made with that rare commodity, white sugar. Afterwards they drew up a horse-hair sofa before the crackling balsam fire and kept hot molasses in Aunt Hannah's ear. The two little Fotheringham boys sang some "Mormon" songs about Brother Brigham, and the evening passed like a pleasant dream. "If Heaven's like this, I'm quite willing to go," sighed the worn pilgrim. Another day they rested. An old settler gave John a medicine chest, containing Grafenberg pills, porous plaster, and sweet nitre, whereupon he became known as "Dr. John." Then the missionaries set forth afresh in good weather and improved spirits. The bacon and flour and dried fruits were running low. Often they dined on wheat coffee and flap-jacks and fermented treacle. Sometimes one of the sisters would say, "Well, what shall we have for supper tonight?" and Aunt Hannah would answer readily, "Why lets have a leg of nothing with no turnips for a change." They were well in the southland now, with its heat and its color, and its endless expanse of desert. In the distance they caught a'glimpse of the magnificent guardian portal of Little Zion Canyon, but a glimpse sufficed, and on they went. St. George seems like the tag end of creation, but here the travelers were heartened with the news that the worst of the road lay ahead of them, and they must lighten their load. So in St. George, Hannah left the lovely set of dishes that had made her feel like the "biggest woman in town" at her wedding, and her linen, and altogether about half of their load. Here they had the interesting experience of tasting sweet potatoes, garden grown by Sister Lufkin. They had read about sweet potatoes, and agreed with all the good that had been said of them. After adding a few home-dried rdisins and two hens and a rooster to their selected cargo, they dared the broiling heat and set forth again. The Virgin River country afforded the climax to their journey. This river winds in and out between two walls of hills. Hannah had an innate horror of water; yet here she faced this treacherous stream that was to be forded thirty-four times. At the 
 first attempt, the horses splashed nervously into a surprising depth and the water ran into the wagon box. Hannah clenched the seat and John's arm, and by sheer will power throttled her screams to gasps. When at length they reached the other shore, Hannah sputtered, "John, I'd rather you would hang me than take me through that water again. " Nevertheless she survived the remaining thirty-three crossings. The road, however, was little better. Than the river bed. The wind had drifted the sand into it, making progress most difficult. The mules would pull for miles through roads where the sand would continually—as Aunt Hannah expressed it—''pour over the wheels like treacle from a jug." The quick-sands also made the river doubly dangerous. There was one breathless crossing almost a block long right in the heart of the quick-sand region. At length, after journeying a full month, they looked out on the burnt desolation of their new home-site: a little group of adobe huts with willow and mud roofs mussed together into a fort; pitiful attempts at wheat and corn fields; not a tree to impede the direct rays of the sun. Then there was the warm alkali water of the Muddy that had sickened Hannah from the first taste of it. Even now her mouth was raw with canker, yet she must drink that water, and she wondered if there would ever be anything to eat besides bread and treacle and parched corn or wheat. The inhabitants made a festive occasion of the arrival of the new comers. They welcomed them cheerily and informed them that all was in readiness for a dance that evening. Hannah made an excuse of the rent in her challie dress, but a good sister immediately found a needle and thread and did away with the excuse. They recognized that Sister Sharp looked ill, but did and said all they could to hearten her. When the cool of the evening came on, the townsfolk gathered in the square, mud-roofed building that served as both schoolhouse and meeting house. It had a stationary lumber seat extending around on all four sides of it, and a thick, uneven wooden floor that could not rob determined feet of their lightness. People chaffed each other and laughed. Sister Sharp's spirits that had been depressed beyond all expression, rose to the occasion. She suggested hanging in the center of the "ballroom," John's new fangled square lantern that was a great curiosity, and a round one - on each side of it, saying that they now had a Venetian chandelier to dance by. Two natural born fiddlers brought forth their instruments, and played their repertoire of three tunes over and over again, the favorite having AUNT HANNAH SHARP 501 "Row the boat man, row Up and down the river, Heigh Hol" They danced quardrilles and Virginia reels to the accompaniment of clapping hands, and rhythmic feet. Two deaf and dumb sisters, who also had a deaf uncle, joined in with the rest in the same spirit of good cheer. They watched carefully and as soon as the others started dancing, they began likewise and kept perfect time with the set. They got acquainted with the newcomers, and named them in their own way. Nora Spencer was Slim Waist— they indicated this by pointing to her and making a small circle with their hands. Louie Felt who was very pale was Whiteface. They would rub their hands over their faces to indicate her. John was Tallman. Another brother was Bristly Moustache. Aunt Hannah, because of the round tent that her husband had pitched that evening became Round Tent. They would draw a long line from the imaginary apex to the base and indicate the base by a large circle. Refreshments at the party consisted of parched corn and fermented molasses candy. But there reigned within those rude walls a spirit of courage and fellowship that was sublime. Followed, a day or so of the hardships of adjustment to an uninvitirig life, and a relapse into low spirits on the part of one who was yet weak of body. Then came Sunday. The meeting house slowly filled with men carrying their chairs on their shoulders, and women walking at the side, or a little behind, and children including babies in arms. Sister Sharp, who had long been a member of the tabernacle choir, helped them with the singing. "We thank thee, O God for a prophet" was new at that time, and during the service the frail girl was singing it with all her heart, with an inspiration born of the victory of the spirit over the flesh. Later all the Saints joined in, learning the song. Afterwards, some who were not present said they thought an angel was singing in the meeting house. In spite of canker, continuous coughing, eyes which. Pained from the sharp light, and other physical disabilities, Hannah Sharp soon became known as the life of the crowd. For eight months she lived in St. Thomas in a tent, sleeping all that while in the wagon box. John went out daily with the other men, ploughing, cultivating, hoeing—trying to be a farmer and subdue the stubborn land. But in the evening crowds would gather in the round tent and they would sing and laugh and tell stories. Christmas came very soon after their arrival. How should they celebrate? John surprised Hannah by shooting a little duck. Hannah baked it deliciously and surprised John by concocting a plum pudding which she boiled in a big iron pot. She had 
 some flour left, and although there was no butter nor lard, she had a little bacon fat for shortening. She saved several days' output of eggs. (The two hens were making the commendable record of fifty percent, or an egg a day at the time.) Then there were the dried raisins she had brought from St. George and some spices she had on hand. Also, there was enough white sugar to forget the molasses for once. It was indeed a Christmas feast. There was one other memorable banquet at the Sharp tent. That was when the young husband one day shot a large goose. At first he only wounded it and it flew away. He waded after it and had to cross the Virgin three times before capturing his prize. At the time, it happened that the mail carrier had procured some potatoes in the settlement of St. Joseph, and had given them to Sister Sharp. Potatoes sold at seven dollars a bushel, and this chanced to be one of the two times that the Sharps ate potatoes while they were in St. Thomas. The goose, potatoes and gravy, with some dried beans, seemed almost like the loaves and fishes. They fed sixteen famished people bounteously. The mail carrier and two of his friends were among the guests. The Indian squaws used to come and do the washing for the settlers. They would work several hours for a level pint of flour. One day one of them, however, stopped washing after about an hour, grunted a "heap tired," picked up her flour and walked home. Sister Sharp noticed the Indians' curious custom of winding their hair about their heads and plastering it with wet mud which they allowed to cake. When it dried and chipped off, they added more of the wet mixture. Sister Sharp asked them about it one day and they replied, "Heap hot, catch 'um sun"—with suitable gestures. It appears they had sufficient wisdom to guard against sun stroke. The only carpet the Sharp's had in the tent was straw. This they changed frequently. Sometimes Sister Sharp would say, when visiting in someone's home, "Well, girls, I must go home now. I have to put down a new carpet this morning." After eight months, the Sharps were called back to Zion, as John was needed to help his father in building the railroad. About a year or so later President Young, himself, visited the Muddy settlement, and seeing the unequal fight that was being carried on with nature, gave to the missionaries his consent to go where they chose, abandoning the settlement for the time being. The Muddy Valley is what is now known as the Moapa Valley and has been made by the new processes of science to become fertile and yield the delicious Moapa products that we have on our tables at present.