

THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. XVIII NOVEMBER, 1931 No. 11
Dr. Joseph Francis Merrill By Alice Louise Reynolds
DR. JOSEPH FRANCIS MERRILL has a record of achievement as a scholar and as a churchman. This record indicates clearly the major interests of his life. It furnishes the key to his character. The urge for knowledge and the urge for righteousness have gone hand in hand in the making of his personality. In him is a mingling of characteristics that made certain the scholar, and spiritual urges that make being a scholar most worth while. Industry is one of his outstanding virtues, and, of course, accounts in part for his record of achievement Accuracy is nearly an _ obsession with him. He wants the facts on any given matter on which he is to pass judgment. This quality of mind has of course played a major part in making the scientist—but it has never made obscure to his mind those subtle influences which are so potent in the spiritual life, and which may not be listed as material or intellectual facts. Dr. Merrill was born in Cache Valley, Aug. 24, 1868, where he grew up. His father was Marriner W. 'Merrill and his mother was Mariah L. Kingsbury Merrill. He. Comes of a family with traditions for learning. He is the nephew of Jos. T. Kingsbury, President Emeritus of the University of Utah. His father's family has been unusually prominent in education. During my career as a teacher, I have had three of his brothers as my colleagues. This tradition is apparent in the achievements of his own family; for all of his children who are old enough have college degrees, At a recent commencement at the University of Utah Dr. Merrill's wife and two daughters received bachelor's degrees, each one of them having been elected to the Phi Kappa Phi honorary scholastic fraternity. His father being a member of the Council of Twelve, made it certain that he would be reared in a home where emphasis was placed upon spiritual values. With such environment, we should expect to find one eager for knowledge concerning the Lord and his plan for the redemption of mankind. In this, we are not disappointed. We shall, in our writing, give attention for the present, to his training for his life's work. He was graduated from the Normal department of the University of Utah. In 1889. He went to Ann Arbor that autumn to obtain his bachelor's 604 degree, an ambition realized in 1893. He married Annie Laura Hyde, a daughter of Annie Taylor Hyde, associated with the General Board of the Relief Society for many years, and Alonzo Hyde. She was a granddaughter of President John Taylor. His first wife was a woman of sterling character. Six children blessed their union. (His second wife, Emily L. Traub, is a woman of culture and charm. She has been a member of the faculty of the University of Utah for some years, holding a position in the language department, where she teaches German. I was at the University of Michigan, when he was doing his undergraduate work. One day while conversing with Professor Isaac N. Demon, head of the English department he said, "Miss Reynolds, your Mr. Merrill ranks high in scholarship; he is a sound student, and a capable man." I responded that the Utah students associated with him were of that opinion, but we were very glad to have it substantiated by a member of the faculty. While at' Ann Arbor, he was associated with a number of Utahns, who have served both the Church and the State as leaders in education. I shall mention only one of these persons, his life long friend, Dr. Richard R. Lyman, because their lives have so often paralleled and because they are now in the Council of the Twelve together. Later Dr. Merrill entered Cornell University, and the University of Chicago, for graduate work, finally taking his doctorate with honors from that great graduate institution Johns Hopkins University, which is in itself a guarantee of high scholarship. This was in 1899. During the six years intervening between taking his bachelor's and his doctor RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of philosophy degrees he taught both chemistry and physics at the University of Utah. Then came his career as head of the State School of Mines and Engineering at the University of Utah. In a state—prominent among mining states--such as Utah, there is great opportunity for a strong school of mines and engineering. In his new capacity, Dr. Merrill saw to it that his native state did not lose this opportunity. Through intelligent direction, he placed this school in a leading position in the nation. Also, he worked closely with President Joseph T. Kingsbury in administrative work as vicepresident. He gave of his best wherever placed, and is one of the men to whom. The University of Utah owes much of its growth and advancement along scholastic lines. After years of devotion to his work at the State University, came his call as Commissioner of Education of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in 1928. He was happy to receive the appointment, for it gave him an opportunity to make use in full measure of the deeply religious urge of his soul. Those acquainted with him were happy in his appointment, because they knew he was grounded in the religious life of his people, and that he would be a force for regenerating, and building on spiritual foundations, the lives of those whom he contacted. Some of us were well aware of his power in this direction, because in days past at the University of Michigan, when he was presiding over a group of Utah students, we came to know the depth of his spiritual life. Then came his service as first assistant superintendent in the Y. M. M. I. A. Work, of Salt Lake Stake, and later his service as counDR, JOSEPH selor to the president of the Granite Stake. At present he is a member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. His appointment on this board came shortly after he was called to be Commissioner of Education. His call as Commissioner of Education is a highly spiritual one. To follow Karl G. Maeser in any calling, is to make it highly spiritual, for spirituality was of the air that he breathed. That Dr. Merrill has been able to satisfy those who knew Karl G. Maeser, and were with him in his work, is one of the highest tributes that can be paid him as an administrator in an office where the spiritual entities are foremost. Those who have worked with him in his present position appreciate his care of details, his promptness, his close attention to facts in a case whenever he is to render judgment, F, MERRILL 605 or whenever he is dealing with a matter where facts are important. His friends would vouch for his integrity, for his absolute reliability, for his scholarship, and his faith in the Lord and in the ultimate triumph of truth and righteousness. He believes sincerely in the good life. During the past months, thousands have listened to his radio addresses, and have heard him expound the gospel of Jesus Christ in the light of scientific knowledge. They have felt the power of his testimony, and know of his faith in the life that is in harmony with the plan of our Father in Heaven. At this very opportune time comes his call to the Council of the Twelve. There is joy and rejoicing in Israel, for they recognize in him one who, through the blessings of the Lord, will feed them the bread of life.
