Vol. XVIII NOVEMBER, 1931 No. 11
EDITORIAL
Compensation
MANY people today are passing through their Garden of Gethsemane. They feel left alone; no one can tell them what to do. Dividends have not been paid; banks have failed; many who thought themselves independent and that their money saved would give them plenty as long as they lived find themselves cramped for means for bare necessities; losses have been sustained until they wonder which way to turn; mortgages have been foreclosed. Many who have always been able to get work and who have never known the torture of long unemployment are today discouraged. They suffer because they have to take charity. The leaders of the different nations ponder the situation and try to devise means of alleviation and cure. Various things are suggested, but so far permanent relief is not in sight.
Every calamity has some recompense and the unemployment and the financial stress through which people have passed and are now passing has brought many desirable things. Many who measured everything in terms of dollars and cents are finding they can live and even be happy on a fraction of what they formerly spent and feel grateful that they have what they have. Many who were ready to stop work at the stroke of the clock, not being willing to lift a finger after the working day was past, are now so glad to have work to do that they willingly work overtime. Many employees are more efficient than ever before because they fear losing their jobs. Many who would not consider working unless they could get a certain wage gladly take much less than what they formerly would demand. Many have shown a spirit of brotherhood, in sharing what they have, planning for the well being of others.
So it does not seem too visionary to predict that out of this trying time the things of the spirit will come uppermost and the passing pleasures and satisfaction bought with money will be subordinated. Church attendance is increasing in many places and people are seeking after God. If it takes difficulty and suffering to bring people to a realization of their dependence on their Father, if it takes scourging to bring them to his house, there to worship, if it takes need to cause them to see that Mammon should not be their God, then the compensation for the suffering and anxiety is evident.
Hugh J. Cannon
OUR hearts go out in tender sympathy to the wife, children and other relatives who feel so keenly the death of Brother Hugh J. Cannon, son of President George Q. And Sarah Jenne Cannon and brother of our Board member, Rosannah C. Irvine. He was a loving husband and father. He and his wife Sarah Richards Cannon have understood and loved each other devotedly and it will be a source of comfort to her to know how much she encouraged and helped him in his work and how deeply he appreciated her.
Brother Cannon played an important part in furthering his Father's work and his loss will be felt very widely. From his young manhood he has been untiring in his Church service. He spent more than one-seventh of his life on foreign missions and when not abroad he was zealously laboring at home. His passing is a great loss to the Improvement Era, for he was a safe, efficient editor. He had a native gift for clear, forceful writing. He understood the Gospel thoroughly and hence could quickly detect in manuscripts submitted to him anything that did not ring true to Gospel teaching. He was a valued member of the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association at the time of his death and his sage counsel will be missed by that body.
Brother Cannon was a lover of books. He had read widely and traveled extensively and was a most charming conversationalist. He was kind, tender, sympathetic. So quiet and unassuming was he that one had to know him well to realize the depth of his great soul. We fain would have had him tarry longer with us but counted by accomplishments he lived a long life and the memory of his fine personality will ever linger in our minds. May the peace and comfort that only our Father can bestow be with his loved ones and may his children emulate his splendid example.
The Era's New Editor
WE congratulate the Era on securing the services of such an able editor as we are sure Harrison R. Merrill will prove to be. He is a gifted writer, carefully trained in his craft, a devoted member of the Church and a genial, courteous, thoughtful gentleman. We wish Brother Merrill every possible success in his editorship.

