From Our Missions*
HAWAIIAN By Verna Murphy, President
THE Relief Society of the Hawaiian Mission was originally organized in the year 1875, and from a meager beginning the organization has grown until it is a recognized factor in social and charitable project work, having at the present time an enrollment of about 200 officers and 700 members, with a live organization in most every village and city of the Territory, the total number of organizations being 49.
The work of the Relief Society has been and is, at the present time under the supervision of the wife of the Mission President, hence it is now my privilege to travel from island to island visiting, instructing, and encouraging the women of the church in Hawaii, who are admirably qualified because of an inborn native desire to aid anyone who may be in need of succor.
The outstanding characteristic of the natives of this Paradise of the Pacific is charity, in fact Hawaii is known as the land of "Na Pua Na Mele ame Ke Aloha", (flowers, music and love), which statement, none who know can gainsay. It has been my pleasure to meet with the leaders of the 49 organizations, most of them in their own branches during the past year, and I find an intense desire on the part of each and all to fully measure up to that which is required of them as evidenced by the fact that an attendance at conference gatherings of
*Greetings from the Hawaiian and British Missions came too late to read in Conference. We are sure our readers will enjoy these accounts of conditions in the Mission field.
100 per cent of officers and 85 per cent of members is no uncommon occurrence.
Under the new arrangement the Mission Quarterly Conferences in the various districts are being held and I have recently attended such delightful and long to be remembered gatherings on the islands of Hawaii, Oahu, Kauai, Maui, and Molokai including the Leper settlement at Kalaupapa. I find the Relief Society sisters setting a pace in humility and devotion to the cause which has caused me to shed tears of joy and praise the Lord for the blessed privilege which is mine to labor with them and feel the impress of their lives upon my own as an inspiration and urge to do bigger and finer things, to sit with the unfortunates in the Leper settlement and hear them bear testimony and sing praises to the Lord for His mercies unto them and have them offer their funds to the poor on the outside thrilled me as I have never been thrilled before. One would have a heart of stone who did not weep. A lesson of appreciation was by them taught more forcibly than I have ever seen or heard it taught before. We all have our hats off, so to speak, to Kalaupapa for the inspiration of their attitude of love and cheer where one might be justified in expecting to find bitterness. These good sisters of Kalaupapa and all Relief Society workers of the mission appreciate fully the efforts of the General Board of Relief Society and unitedly join in extending Aloha and very best wishes for your continued success in health and happiness. Oh! How we shall all rejoice when we receive the good word that OFFICERS AND TEACHERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY THE HONOLULU DISTRICT OF THE HAWAIIAN MISSION Others in the picture are: Jeanette Hyde, Mary L. Gowans, Verna A. Murphy. Standing in the rear are: President Castle H. Murphy, Charles Broad and Lanakila Pa. FROM OUR one of your number is on the way to pay us a visit. Kindly extend our greeting of Aloha to the Relief Societies in General Conference assembled. British Mission By Leah D. Widtsoe -WISH to report that Relief Society work in all the missions is fully operating and that the Presidents of each mission report the work to be making splendid progress. They report that the sisters are enjoying the lessons more each year and that the home life of the members is being greatly enriched because of their study and participation in the Relief Society program. The sisters generally are enthusiastic about their work in Relief Society to which I can testify from personal visits and conferences with the sisters in all the missions珻xcept the South African, and Sister Dalton sends reports of much success attending the work there. Out of a total membership in all the missions of 28,781 the female membership is 17,450𤪳y far the majority. Of the total female membership 4,604 are members of the Relief Society or 26% of the total membership. We wish this proportion were greater and are working toward that end. The highest percentage membership is in the Norwegian Mission, being there 36% of the total; and the lowest in the British and Netherlands Missions𤤖nly 17%. Yet the Netherlands Mission has the highest percentage of enrollment attending meetings㻡s high as 75%. During the summer season all societies meet weekly. Practically 100% of the societies are following the prescribed Study Course. I feel that all in all much progress is being made and that the MISSIONS 629 societies are filling their mission to the full. VISITING TEACHING IN THE NORTHWESTERN STATES Mission IT is with great pleasure we report to you our year's work in visiting teaching. We feel we were able to accomplish your heart's desire that visiting teaching be taken care of. On our being put into office we were informed that it could not be done successfully in a large city where the districts are so scattered, but we are happy to say it can be done. Our success has been due to the splendid co-operation and untiring efforts of our members. We consider our older sisters with their wide experience our honor sisters, and as such should be shown every courtesy. We need them in our visits and appreciate the fact they are not able to walk; hence we organized a motor corps of eighteen younger women who have cars and can drive. These sisters call for our visiting teachers and drive them to every home in their district. We have eighteen districts and in the past active year we had 100% report on our visiting. These days have proven highly enjoyable as well as profitable to our society. We have been able to increase our membership, stimulate interest among inactive members, increase our annual dues, our magazine subscriptions, our general and charitable fund with contributions and we have made splendid contact and friendships through these visits. To us, visiting teaching is the foundation of Relief Society work and without it an organization cannot be carried on efficiently. We need this contact with the sisters in their homes and find every mother *A report sent to President Pearl C. Sloan. 630 happy to greet us and accept our message. We have visited from 235 to 265 families each month, traveling 400 miles to accomplish this. We feel this visiting is most important in the mission field where RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there are many lonely hearts away from home who rejoice at a visit from us. Every officer in our organization participates as visiting teacher or motor corps. We are all happy in our work in Portland and look forward with great pleasure to our coming year's work.
