Buddhist Temples Mary Foster Gibbs
======================================================================

Buddhist Temples. By Mary Foster Gibbs. The Buddhist religion was erected on the decayed foundations of the ancient Vedic faith. The ancient Hindu beliefs resulted in the formation of caste, and the practice of many mysticisms, which affected the Hindu life with a combination of fixed superstitions and fixed beliefs. The original fair-colored descendants of Japheth, now called Aryans, who went into the Hindu peninsula found hoards of Ham's descendants, so we are told, in possession of the country. These fair-colored people subdued or drove back the dark skinned race, and set up their own civilization. They had a proper horror of intermarriage with Ham's descendants, understanding the far-reaching injury worked upon posterity through racial mixture; so at first there were two classes, or castes, the Gentiles or Aryans, and the Hamites. Out of their civilization would necessarily grow social distinctions, for the laboring people would be sooner or later dominated by the soldiers and the priesthood. Thus originated the four distinct classes, the priests, the warriors, the laborers, and the servants, which castes are maintained even now in India, and woe be to one who has contact in the least degree, with those not of his caste; this principle itself is a shadowy corruption of the principle involved in the stern decree of Jehovah against inter-marriage. Buddhism was developed through its originator, Buddha, as a protest against the fixed caste system and the gloomy fatalism of the Brahmin teachings. The Buddha family name was Gautama, and his disciples later claimed that he was the last one of a series of Buddhas who are reborn from time to time to preach the true doctrine. He was disgusted with the worship of nature which had degenerated in the centuries into the worship of various new and impure divinities. The Vedic songs and rituals had faded into obscurity, and priests who administered in the rites quarreled among themselves until the country was politically split up into little principalities. The universal belief in the doctrine of transmigration of souls was not disturbed much by Buddha. He simply confined it to the human family. The doctrine is probably a corruption of the doctrine of the three stages of existence, and is now very popular in "New Thought" religions, and is called reincarnation. He taught, after his own long months of retirement and fasting and deep study, the four great doctrines: (a) "That misery always 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. accompanies existence, (b) That all modes of existence result from passion or desire, (c) That there is no escape from existence except by the destruction of passion and desire, (d) That this end may be reached by following the fourfold way. The 'Paths' of this way are marked by four stages ? awakening, to see the evil of existence; the suppression of impure desires and revengeful feelings; the suppression of all other evil desires in the following consecutive order ? ignorance, doubt, heresy, unkindness, vexation; finally Nirvana." There is much difference of opinion as to the meaning of this word Nirvana. By some it is taken as equivalent to extinction of being; by others as pointing to a state of perfect peace and restfulness. There can be no doubt that to the Buddhist, since all existence is an evil, the supreme end to be aimed at is a total cessation of being. The pure Buddhist believes neither in God nor in spirit. Therefore death is the end of the individual existence. The Hindu doctrine of the transmigration of souls, grafted on to man's natural instinct of immortality, is too strong for him. He cannot but believe in a future life. Here comes in the doctrine of Karma, or fate. Although there is no soul to survive death, the effects of a man's life remain, and the total sum of these effects, the grand resultant of all his actions, desires, and passions, is called Karma. This Karma calls another life into existence, the new life being shaped by the old life, as its direct fruit, and therefore representing and perpetuating its character. But when Nirvana is reached, the Karma, which has been gradually attenuated by the suppression of desire, entirely vanishes, so that at death there is nothing to produce another life, and the sum of existence is diminished, the supreme end aimed at. Melancholy and even appalling as this view of life and its issues may appear to us, it indicates a great advance on Hinduism. While Gautama swept away the whole collection of ancient gods and their myths, he taught that salvation was not to be attained either by sacrifice or by asceticism. The evil was too internal for these outward remedies. People were to learn to master their own passions and practice kindness one to another. But there was no confession of man's weakness, and no saviour. The gospel of Buddhism only shows man how he is to save himself. "Later Buddhism developed its own rituals, and converted Buddha into a god." "This is the religion of an enormous number of people in China and Thibet, but its sacred literature is less known than the Pali scriptures, of later date. The Lalita Vistara, partly in prose and partly in verse, is the standard Sanskrit account of the legendary life of Buddha among the northern Buddhists. According to M. Foucaux, who translated it from Tibetan into French, this version was made about the sixth century A. D. The age of the BUDDHIST TEMPLES. 709 original Sanskrit is uncertain. The Book of the Great Renunciation, which gives the account of Gautama's abandonment of his princely home in pursuit of the higher life, has passed from Sanskrit into Chinese. Most of the Chinese Buddhist works are of late date, and only represent the degeneration of Buddhism." As a matter of modern history we know that while Buddhism is but one of many beliefs in India, it shares equal honors with the worship of Confucius amongst the Chinese. Offerings of jewelry and various other precious materials formed the sacrificial offerings in the worship of Buddha. The rise of Buddhism was about 300 or 400 years before the birth of the Savior, and by that period it had practically displaced the Vedic worship amongst the lay members of the Hindu races. The character of Hindu divine objects of worship is calculated to exert little of the elevating and spiritualizing influence, so characteristic of true religious devotion. In all but a few of the minor groups, religious fervor is only too apt to degenerate into that very state of sexual excitation which devotional exercises should surely tend to repress. If the worship of Siva, despite the purport of his chief symbol, seems on the whole less liable to produce these undesirable effects than that of the rival deity, it is doubtless due partly to the real nature of that emblem being little realized by the common people, and partly to the somewhat repellent character of the 'great god,' more favorable to evoking feelings of awe and terror than a spirit of fervid devotion. All the more are, however, the gross stimulants, connected with the adoration of his consort calculated to work up the carnal instincts of the devotees to an extreme degree of sensual frenzy. In the Vaishnava camp on the other hand, the cult of Krishna, and more especially that of the youthful Krishna, can scarcely fail to exert an influence which if not the subtler and more insinuating, is on that account of a no less demoralizing kind. Indeed, it would be hard to find anything less consonant with godliness and divine perfection than the pranks of this juvenile god; and if poets and thinkers try to explain them away by dint of allegorical interpretation, the plain man will not for all their refinements take these amusing adventures any the less au pied de la lettre." It has been asserted in modern times that our Savior visited India and some even connect Buddha with our Lord and Savior. How incorrect this may be learned with the knowledge of the difference between the true sacrifice and the false worship and the distorted remnants of truth which belong to these heathen races. We must remember, however, that the Lord tells us through the Doctrine and Covenants that all men have teachers suited to their times and conditions. But when the Spirit of God 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. is withdrawn and men are left to their own imagination they gradually degenerate into mere sensualists and avaricious fakirs. The doctrine of the transmigration of souls, which was modified by the Buddhist into reincarnation of human bodies has its foundation in the truth of the gospel, which is known in its extent and purity only amongst the Latter-day Saints: that is, that we ourselves have passed through an existence before we came here and that we shall pass through another stage of existence hereafter. The vital difference is that our bodies, with which we came here remain with us through the endless ages of eternity purified and glorified, as Christ took up his body, so shall we be resurrected.