[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 3 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
[If Spring Be Late Chapter]

"AND THOU, BETHLEHEM . . ."

Mabel Jones Gabbott

"And thou, Bethlehem, art not the least
In Judah . . ." The ancient words return
And stir our memories of other feasts
In Israel; how longingly did Rachel yearn
To come again to Bethlehem to rest?
Here Ruth gleaned for Naomi in the field
Of kinsman Boaz and was greatly blessed;
Young David, son of Jesse, would not yield
To beast nor giant. . . . "And thou, Bethlehem . . ."
To whom we turn for pattern and for strength,
Reserved for yet the sweetest diadem,
Fulfills the prophecy, and at length
Becomes the birthplace of our Savior, Lord;
The fountainhead of truth: his life, his word.

Sister Gabbott is the busy wife of J. Donald Gabbott, and the mother of two daughters who are both in college, and three boys who are in high school and junior high school. The family resides in Bountiful, Utah.

Sister Gabbott is currently serving as an editorial associate on the Improvement Era. She is a member of the Utah State Poetry Society, Bountiful Poetry Society, and Jessamine Literature Group of Bountiful, and is past president of the Salt Lake City Chapter of the League of American Penwomen.

On winning, Sister Gabbott commented, "This is to me a great and beloved surprise."

23

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the winners in the 1967 Relief Society Short Story Contest.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Emma Lou Warner Thayne, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her story "A Partridge in a Pear Tree." Second place winner is Mickey Goodwin, Vandenburg Air Force Base, California, for her story entitled "Eddie." Her prize is sixty dollars. Third prize of fifty dollars went to Sara Brown Neilson, Pasadena, California, for her story "More Than a Game."

The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial Observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine in 1968, along with photographs and highlights of the lives of the contestants.

None of the winners has ever placed in a story contest previously, nor have they been represented in the Magazine.

award winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Seventy-nine stories were entered in the 1967 contest, making it the largest number ever submitted. They came from several countries outside the United States, and from many States of the Union.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except by the written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any story submitted to the contest, paying upon publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first prize two years consecutively must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Gratitude is extended to members of the General Board and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries.

The General Board congratulates the prize-winners on their fine stories.

24

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Emma Lou W. Thayne
First Prize Winner
The Relief Society Short Story Contest

"A Partridge
In A
Pear Tree"

[ILLUSTRATION]

"You sure are a good teacher, Miss
Harrow."

"I hate Christmas! I hate going home, but it would be worse to stay here." Jenny Harrow brushed a straggle of untinted, almost brown hair off her forehead and sank onto the familiar hardness of her desk chair. "But here we go again. Vacation, and another ordeal at home. If only I could just black out for two weeks and be right back here starting a new year."

She whisked a stack of papers into a drawer, closed it deliberately, and started unseeing at the suddenly very empty room. "After twelve years of teaching, you'd think I'd be used to it—going home, that is." She knew that in seven hours Miss Harrow, the good school teacher, would be plain Jenny Harrow, unmarried daughter, home for Christmas.

The tree by her desk, which moments before had been gay with tinsel and packages, drooped straggly and ill-shaped. The floor and the children's desks were littered with party leftovers. The sun, through the arduously tinted windows, fingerprinted the third grade efforts of seventy-two sticky hands that had glued and painted them. Jenny was tired, but more than just "three-thirty tired."

Far down the hall she heard him coming. The clomp and skid were unmistakable. It had to be Widdy. What had he forgotten now? Wondering, she shook her head and smiled. Two days ago it had been a stocking. Now, who in the world could lose a stocking—with his shoe still on?

When the class colored, Widdy never could find a black. "I don't

25

like dark things anyhow, Miss Harrow." When they sang he never followed the words. "It's more fun to look up, Miss Harrow." In reading group he raced ahead and could never locate his place when his turn came to read. "I can't wait to find out what happens, Miss Harrow."

Widdy could not wait for anything. Life was an urgent magnet, drawing him eagerly into its dynamic flow. And, with a wistful expectancy, he ran to it unimpeded by trivia such as socks and crayons, words and turns. And now he panted into the doorway, his husky shoulders raised in a huge sigh. "Hey, Miss Harrow, I brought you something." He slammed a bedraggled package into her hands as if passing a stick in a relay. Then he slid, turned, and airplaned around the corner of the door. He caught the jam with his arm just before disappearing and thrust his matted blond head back into the room, smiling so hard his eyes almost closed. "Oh, and listen, Miss Harrow," his voice was out-of-breathy. "I made that so you'd have it to hang on your tree when you go home. It's just like one we used to have that I liked a lot. But it got broke. And . . . ." He was suddenly sober. "And merry Christmas. You sure are a good teacher, Miss Harrow."

He tipped his head pensively, then smiled again and was gone. The clomp and skid down the hall echoed his hurry.

Jenny looked at the box, its tissue clinging perilously to the misshapened container. It was easy enough to open. Inside, resting on a lumpy piece of incongruous cotton, was a tiny bird cage. It had been built of toothpicks, glued tenuously to key rings of three different sizes to create a kind of Japanese lantern. Except for a tiny gold ring at the top, it was painted green, with some of the excess paint oozing at the intersections.

Inside the cage hung a battered little bell, suspended from the gold ring by a wire from a plastic bread wrapper. And glued onto the bell, its wispy feet one glob of goo, was a canary, cut out of a magazine, yellow on one side, a printed ad on the other. Its edges were irregular and it drooped a touch, but its identity was sure.

What a job for an eight-year-old! thought Jenny, especially Widdy! She could picture his stubby fingers working with those toothpicks. How tedious. It must have taken him hours. She rested an elbow on the desk and dangled the cage by its Christ-

[ILLUSTRATION: A line drawing of a decorative bird cage with toothpick construction]

26

January 1968
