	CHUSETTS OCT. 22ND, 1834.]

	I want you to be saved in the third heaven, or
Celestial Kingdom of God. This kingdom is
reserved for the Church of the First Born, even
those who have come up through much tribula-
tion. This is the kingdom that a man cannot
see unless he is born again; this is the kingdom
that a man cannot enter except he is born of
water and the Spirit; this is the kingdom a man
must forsake all things for. He must have
faith sufficient to even lay down his life for it if
required. I have forsaken the world for this
kingdom, and how soon I shall be called upon
to lay down my life for the sake of Christ I
know not; but if it ever be required of me I hope
I may have fortitude to withstand the trial and
not deny the Lord that brought me.
	Notwithstanding you are honest unto man I
ask, are you honest to God in all things? If not,
have a conscience void of offense before
Him? I leave you to answer these questions
yourselves. I can assure you it is not a trifling
thing to give up all for Christ's sake, to be will-
ing to even lay down our lives in His cause. I
know more about these things than I did when
I saw you last. I have been in the hands of a
wicked mob, and knew not but they would kill
me. I have even sat in my house for hours
with the door open, expecting the mob to take
me the second time, when one of their leaders
had sworn that I should die that day, or he
would. You may judge for yourselves what
were my feelings. I can say I felt composed,
and was determined to lay down my life if God
required it.
	I knew they had no power only as it was
granted unto them. I have seen the mob by
hundreds, armed, and to all appearances ready
to destroy men, women and children. Compan-
ies on horseback passing the houses of women
and children where there was no man. threaten-
ing the lives of all who did not clear out before 
night. They appeared to me more like fiends of
hell than men. Priests headed at least two of
those companies. I do not know but the revela-
tion of those scenes will more than ever con-
vince you that I am not sane; but be it so, you
must have your own opinion. I know I am not
deluded. I suppose you think that you would
not persecute any people as we have been 
persecuted. Take heed then that you do not op-
pose this work, for when the Lord withdraws
His spirit you know not what you may be left
to do. The Savior told his disciples that the
day would could that those who would put them
to death would think they were doing God's
service. And verily I say unto you they that
are not for us are against us; and the day will
come when all parties will join together as they
 did in Jackson Co. to oppose the truth and put
down the people of God. Therefore, I say, take
heed to yourselves lest, peradventure, you are
fighting against God. Christ and his Apostles
were never know to persecute, but bore all
things which that wicked generation was
pleased to put upon them. From this we learn
that those who have the Spirit of Christ never
persecute, but are always persecuted, as we may
learn both from sacred and profane history.
The Bible says, they that have not the Spirit of
Christ are none of His. Here is a criterion
whereby we may judge ourselves. I once more
entreat you to carefully examine this subject;
make not a hasty judgement, for truth will bear
an investigation. Spare no pains to ascertain the
truth, and remember that the Spirit of Christ
leadeth into all truth. Throw aside all prejudice
and remember that one truth is worth a thou-
sand errors. If you are wise you are wise for
yourselves; and may the Lord help you by His
Holy Spirit, that you may be wise in time, that
in eternity we may meet in the Celestial King-
dom of God to spend an eternity in His
presence.


