BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"It is not merely that you may see these
things, but it is a matter of fact, a matter that
has to do directly with your salvation, for
which you have talked and labored many
years. It is not for amusement you are
brought to receive these things, but to put you
in possession of the means of salvation, and be
brought into a proper relationship to God—
hence a man becomes responsible for his own
conduct and that of his wife, if he has one. It
is not designed that the things that are pre-
sented to-day should be forgotton to-morrow,
but be remembered and practiced through all
coming life—Hence it is a stepstone to ap-
proach to the favor of God. Having descended
to the lowest state of degradation, it is
the begining of a homeward journey; it is
like a man lost in a wilderness, and the means
with which we are invested here are to direct
us in our homeward journey. You then see
the reason why you are required to put away
your vanities, cease to talk of all those things
which are not conducive to eternal life. This
is why you are required to be sober, to be
honest, that you could ask and receive, knock
and it should be opened, and that when you
sought for things you would find them. It is
putting you in possession of those keys by
which you can ask for things you need and ob-
tain them. This is the key by which to obtain
all the glory and felicity of eternal life. It is
the key by which you approach God. No im-
pression which you receive here should be lost.
It was to rivet the recollections of these things
in your memory, like a nail in a sure place
never to be forgotton. The scenery through
which you have passed is actually laying be-
fore you a picture or map, by which you are to
travel through life, and obtain an entrance
into the celestial Kingdom hereafter. If you
are tempted in regard to these things here, you
will be tempted when you approach the
presence of God hereafter. You have, by be-
ing faithful, been brought to this point, by
maintaining these things which have been en-
trusted to you.		*	*	*	It is not
merely for the sake of talking over these things
that they are given to you, but for your bene-
fit and for your triumph over the powers of
darkness hereafter. We want the man to re-
member that he has covenanted to keep the
law of God, and the woman to obey her hus-
band, and if you keep your covenants you will
not be guilty of transgression. The line that
is drawn is for you to maintain your covenants,
and you will always be found in the path of
obedience, after that which is virtuous and
holy and good, and will never be swallowed up
by unhallowed feelings and passions. If you
are found worthy and maintain your integrity,
and do not run away and think yon have got
all your endowment, you will be found worthy
after a while, which will make you honorable
with God. You have not yet been ordained to
anything, but will be by and by. You have
received these things because of your compli-
ance with all the requisitions of the law, and if
faithful you will receive more. You have now
learned how to pray. You have been taught
how to approach God and be recognized. This
is the principle by which the church has been
kept together, and not the power of arms. A
few individuals have asked for your preserva-
tion, and their prayers have been heard, and it
is this which has preserved you from being
scattered to the four winds. Those who have
learned to approach God and receive these
blessings, are they better than you? The only
difference is they have been permitted to have
these things revealed unto them. The princi-
ples which have been opened to you are the

[Column 2]
things which ought to occupy your attention
all your lives. They are not second to any-
thing; you have the key by which, if you are
faithful, you will claim on your posterity all
the blessings of the Priesthood."
	Elder H. C. Kimball said, "The ideas ad-
vanced by Brother Lyman are good and true.
*	*	*	God is like one of us, for He
created us in his own image. Every man that
ever came upon this earth, or any other earth,
will take the course we have taken—Another
thing, it is to bring us to an organization, and
just as quick as we can get into that order and
government, we have the celestial Kingdom
here. You have got to know your brethren or
you never can honor God. The man was
created, and God gave him dominion over the
whole earth, but he saw that he never could
multiply and replenish the earth without
woman; and He made one and gave her to him.
He did not make the man for the woman but
the woman for the man.		*	*	But
if a man does not use a woman well and take
good care of her, God will take her away from
him and give her to another. Perfect order
and consistency makes heaven, but we are now
deranged, and the tail has become the head.
*	*	*	One reason why we bring our
wives with us is that they may make a coven-
ant with us to keep these things sacred. 	*	*
You can't sin so cheap now as you could be-
fore you came to this order. It is not for us to
reproach the Lord's anointed, nor to speak evil
of him; all have covenanted not to do it."	*	*
	Elder George A. Smith made a few re-
marks; he spoke principally in relation to the
importance of keeping sacred those principles
which we had received.	*	*	He
was followed by Elder Orson Hyde.	*	*
The congregation was dismissed by prayer by
Elder John Taylor.
	Those teachings and the wonderful experi-
ence of the Latter-day Saints since they were
given, and the apostacy of some who were then
such bright and shining lights, have led me to
indulge in deep and sorrowful reflections on
the same. The awful and irreparable loss of
those whose great light has become darkness,
because they forgot and transgressed the very
laws and principles which their own lips were
inspired to utter in that house of God, and to
proclaim it for years after to the Saints, and al-
so to the nations afar off. And do we realize
that this warning voice has been sounding in
our ears for more than half a century, and
that the Lord is now coming out from His hid-
ing place to vex the nations, and that He will
no longer be trifled with? These things we
were forcibly reminded of by the late terible
fire in this city. Though the threats of men
could not make our knees tremble, God is able
to, and to humble us to the dust, and which I
truly believe he will do, and that quickly, un-
less we change from our present course in mix-
ing up and following in the ways of Babylon.
Being absent from the city at the time of that
dreadful fire, when hearing the awful tidings
it sounded like a death knell to departed hopes;
and this feeling was not lessened when hearing
repeatedly these old familiar words, uttered
years ago. Brother Heber predicted that
"whisky street" (Main Street) would yet burn
like an old tinder box." We also heard Presi-
dent Young speak in a similar manner. If it
deserved that title then, by what name should
it now be called, with other places established
since then, and sustained by the outside ele-
ment, and which are in a similar state of
putrefaction? We little looked for any-
thing of this kind when coming away
to this far off wilderness, and for many
years we were almost entirely free from
its contaminating influence. But these things
we suppose are necessary to prove us. It has
long been foretold that God's judgments should
commence at His house, and it appears to me that

[Column 3]
this is but the beginning, and that it stands us
in hand to search into our own hearts, and ask
ourselves if we are living up to all of His re-
quirements. We read that "Those who fear
the Lord will prepare their hearts and humble
their souls in His sight, saying, we will fall in-
to the hands of the Lord and not into the
hands of men, for as His majesty is, so is His
mercy." But how much longer can we look
for mercy? What hath not mercy mixed with
judgment done? How can we look for it if we
are not keeping His commandments and
the "Word of Wisdom" given by the Lord
through His Prophet Joseph, to the Latter-day
Saints on the 27th of February, 1833. It
was sent greeting—not by commandment or
constrained, but by revelation	*	*	*
showing forth the order and will of God in the
temporal salvation of all Saints in the last
days.
	"Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto
you, in consequence of evils and designs which
do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring
men in the last days, I have warned you and
forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of
wisdom by revelation.	*	*	*	*
And all Saints who remember to keep and do
these sayings, walking in obedience to the com-
mandments, shall receive health in their navel
and marrow to their bones, and shall find wis-
dom and great treasures of knowledge, even
hidden treasures; and shall run and not be
weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I
the Lord give unto them a promise, that the
destroying angel shall pass by them, as the
children of Israel and not slay them. Amen.
	My father's clerk wrote the following: "Dec.
23rd. Almon W. Babbit entered the Temple,
was invited by President Young into his room;
he brings report that officers from Springfield
are here, and several of the state troops after
the Twelve; particularly Amasa Lyman.	*	*
At three o'clock John Scott informed George D.
Grant that an officer and assistants were
watching for President Young and others at
the front door of the Temple. Brother Grant
carried the information to President Young,
who soon devised a scheme by which their in-
tentions to carry him off might be frustrated."
The President directed Brother William Mil-
ler, who was present at the time, to put on his
cloak, but which happened to be my father's—
their cloaks being precisely alike. He threw
it around Brother Miller's shoulders, and told
him to wear it and also his hat and accompany
George Grant to his carriage at the door, etc.
They followed his directions. Brother Clayton
wrote: "As Brother Miller was about to get
into the carriage with Elder Grant, the officer
and five or six of his assistants arrested him
supposing him to be President B. Young. They
were about to drive away with him, having
made their boasts that they would get as many
of the Twelve as they could--take them down
to Warren, and have a New Year's frolic kill-
ing them, but they were persuaded to drive to
the Nauvoo Mansion and tarry until to-morrow
morning, when the validity of the writ would
be tested.
	"They were kept in profound ignorance of
their mistake.	*	*	Esq. Babbit
takes the legal management of the case, and
when they have stopped long enough to make
a good tavern bill will probably get their eyes
open and put off."
	"Esq. Babbit came in at five o'clock, and re-
ports that the officer	*	*	has left
the city and gone to Carthage with the prisoner.
*	*	Lawyer Edmunds, a partner of
Mr. Babbit's, has gone with them to act as
counsel for the prisoner. The officer has writs
for B. Young, H. C. Kimball, P. P. Pratt,
John Taylor, George A. Smith, Amasa Lyman
and T. Turley, who are all charged with coun-
terfiting the coin of the United States."

To be Continued.


