THE COMING ELECTION.

	The August election is close at hand, and is
certainly quite an important event. The
Woman's Journal of Boston (which, by the way,
has had a great deal to say lately on the Utah
question) says, "the August election will prove
an important crisis in the struggle against poly-
gamy.	*	*	The issue will come home
more directly to the people than did the elec-
tion of a congressional delegate last fall." The
journal knows very little, seemingly, about Utah
matters, notwithstanding all the recent visits
of correspondents and editors to Salt Lake.
There is no need of any fears on the part of the
people's pary here, nor any cause for rejoicing
on the part of those, who desire to see the
"Mormons" who have settled this country and
made it possible for them to live here and amass
fortunes, lose all the rights of American citizens
after redeeming the desert. There are plenty of
legal voters for the people's party after all are ex-
cluded that the interpretation of the Edmund's
bill by the Commissioners could possibly dis-
franchise. The Federal officials, registration
officers and judges of election have been very
particular to hunt up every pretext against any
and every "Mormon," to hinder the polling of
votes by the people's party, but with all their
diligence they will not succeed in their efforts
to gain the possession of the offices and the
treasury of the Territory. They must wait a
little longer, and while they are waiting the
"Mormon" population will increase so rapidly
that the end of their waiting will be woe to all
their hopes.
	The Lord has given this land to His people,
and He will hold them responsible if they do
not maintain their rights to its possession by
being on the alert to preserve the freedom that
is so essential to the life and happiness of Ame-
rican citizens. Every man and every woman
that has the privilege of voting should consider
it a sacred duty. It is just as much a duty as it
is to pray. But so far as the election settling
the question of plural marriage, the Journal is
far astray. The Federal officials here care less
about that principle than the world imagines.
They want to get possession of the Territory,
divest the "Mormon" people of all rights, civil,
political and religious, and drive them from
their inheritances, if they will not submit their
consciences to them. Let the people be wise,
prayerful and vigilant, strong in maintaining
their integrity to God and the Constitution of
their country, and all will be well. The race
that is growing up in these mountain fastnesses
are abundantly endowed, by Nature, with the
tenacity of purpose, and the determination to
maintain the rights of the people who first
planted their feet upon this desert land ere it
passed into the hands of the United States gov


emment, and they will assert their rights at the,
polls by voting for those men who will honor
the positions they are elected to fill, and defend
the rights of the men and the women who
have, by their industry and intelligence, made
the country desirable, although many of these
noble citizens are now denied any political priv-
ileges.


