IN MEMORIAM.

	By the death of Bishop L. E. Harrington a gloom has
been cast over our little city. Having been Bishop and
President since the organization of American Fork as a
branch of the Church, he has endeared himself to the
hearts and affections of the people to that extent that
they cannot fail to realize their loss keenly; neverthe-
less we acknowledge the hand of the Lord in our be-
reavement, and feel to say, "Thy will be done."
	Leonard E. Harrington was born January 27th, 1815,
at New Lisbon, Oswego Co., New York. Embraced the
Gospel in 1842, and gathered with the Saints at Nau-
voo; shared in the persecutions of the Saints, and ar-
rived in Salt Lake City in September, 1847, having
crossed the plains in the first company of families that
came. In 1850 he became one of the first settlers of
American Fork, and has never ceased to labor for the
interest of his ward as Bishop, counselor, father and
friend until his demise, which occurred June 21st, 1883.
The funeral was the largest one ever witnessed in this,
place.
	At a special meeting of the Relief Society of Ameri-
can Fork the following resolutions were unanimously
adopted:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father, in his infinite wis-
dom, has seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
friend and brother, Bishop Leonard E. Harrington, and,
	Whereas, We miss his kind and fatherly counsels,
realize that in him we have lost a firm friend, a man of
God, and one who was loyal to the cause of his religion,
and that of his country. A true friend of woman, who
did not hesitate, in his unflinching integrity, to plead
her cause in the Legislature of the Territory, in Conven-
tion and in every place and at all times, whenever op-
portunity presented itself, Therefore, be it resolved,
	That we, the Relief Society of American Fork, do
deeply deplore the loss of our beloved Bishop, Leonard
E. Harrington, and that we truly sympathize with the
bereaved family in their great affliction, and pray our
Heavenly Father to console them in their great be-
reavement, and be unto them an ever present help in
every time of need.
				MARY FINDLEY, President,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Secretary.

	On Tuesday, June 12th, Mrs. Janet Gibson died sud-
denly at Bishop Sharp's, in the home of her daughter
Mrs. Annie G. Sharp. Deceased was the widow of
Elder Wm. Gibson, who labored for many years as a
missionary in the old country and also in America.
Deceased was born in Johnston, Renfrewshire Co., Scot-
land, October, 1813, her maiden name was Nichol.
	She was married to Wm. Gibson December 6th, 1881, in
Paisley. She was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints at Paisley, November 24th
1840, by Elder Francis Sprowl. During the time Bro. and
Sister Gibson remained in Edinburgh afrer they received
the Gospel, Brother Gibson was almost constantly en-
gaged in promoting the spread of the principles of
truth, and temporal affairs were a secondary considera-
tion. Sister Gibson labored faithfully in domestic af-
fairs, and was also zealous in spiritual things, always


advocating the principles of the Church. Their house
was always open to the Elders and to the local Saints
as a place of meeting and a home of hospitality.
Indeed they were generous to a fault, and willing to
deprive themselves that they might feed and clothe
those who were proclaiming the plan of salvation.
	In January, 1851, Bro. and Sister Gibson left Scot-
land for America on board the ship George W. Bourne.
Their family then consisted of two sons and two daugh-
ters, David, Annie, Jeanette and William. They were
ten weeks making the voyage across the Atlantic. Bro.
Gibson had charge of the company of Saints who came
across at that time. They went to St. Louis first and
remained there about two years, and Bro. Gibson pre-
sided over that branch a part of the time. Sister Gib-
son was like a mother to the younger Saints in that
branch of the Church. In May, 1851, while living in
St. Louis Sister Gibson had another daughter born, and
she named her Catharine. In May, 1853, the family left
St. Louis to gather with the Saints in the Valley. At
Loup Fork, a point not far from the Missouri River, the
little girl born in St. Louis died, and of course she had
to be buried by the way-side, which to a tender mother
such as Sister Gibson, was a very severe ordeal.
	The family arrived in the valley, and located in
Salt Lake City. Here some time subsequent,
Brother Gibson entered upon the practice of plural
marriage, and Sister Gibson went hand and hand with
her husband sustaining him and acting the part of a
loyal wife and a mother to the younger wives. In
no other way could Sister Gibson have so faithfully
proved her devotion to the principle as in the noblil-
ty with which she received to her home and heart the
wives taken in the patriarchal order of marriage. In
this she displayed that true heroism that elevates the
women of this Church and places them on a more
exalted platform than the women of the world. In
1867 Sister Gibson went with her husband on the Mud-
dy mission, where she endured much hardship and pri-
vation. At one time they had their house and every-
thing in it burned. In 1871 Bro. Gibson went on a mis-
sion to Philadelphia, while there he had a stroke of
paralysis and Sister Gibson went herself to Philadelphia
to bring him home. Her affection for her husband was
indeed unselfish. For the three years following she de-
voted herself to him night and day as if he had been a
child, for he required the same care and attention. In
1881 she went to St. George to do some work in the
Temple, and while there she attended to the ordinances
for the dead of her ancestry and that of her husband,
which was a great satisfaction and comfort to her.
	Sister Gibson was an exemplary Latter-day Saint,
always regular in attendance at meetings and greatly
interested in the Relief Societies and the Y. L. M. I. A.,
taking part in the exercises, ready and willing to testi-
fy to the truth at all times when called upon. She was a
fire-side teacher. Shs loved to speak of the principles
of the Gospel and explain them to the young or to
those in doubt. She was beloved by the young people
of her acquaintance, for she possessed that adaptability
that won their affections,
	She was, as it was remarked by one of the brethren
who spoke at her funeral, amiable in the highest de-
gree, patient, long suffering and kind, tender, forgiv-
ing and benevolent. Although she was a very unassum-
ing person, she was a woman who had read a great deal
and was intellectual in character. She was possessed
of true Christian charity, which caused her to over-
look weaknesses and encourage the weak and err-
ing in the path of right. Her whole soul was
in the Latter-day work, and she departed full of
zeal, having been ever faithful in all things in
fulfilling duties and responsibilities, even under the 
most trying and peculiar circumstances. She leaves only
one daughter, Mrs. Annie G. Sharp, and seven grand-
children to mourn her loss. "Blessed are the dead who
die in the Lord, yea, from henceforth they rest from their
labors and their works do follow them." E. B. W.


