BY HANNAH T- KING

	July 24th, 1847, the pioneers entered upon
the site where now stands the beautiful
City of Salt Lake, named by the great histor-
ian, Burton, "The City of the Saints." But
it is July 24th, 1883, that I wish to make pal-
pable in a few thoughts that floated through my
mind while witnessing the celebration of that
day in the great Tabernacle, a day never to be
forgotten by young or old while memory holds
her seat; I wish I could do ample justice to the
subject, but I feel that I can but express
a moiety of all that passed through my mind
on that day while sitting as a unit among
many thousands that had congregated there-
in to take part in—or witness the performance.
It was a day especially for the exhibition of
the children, and I can say with truth they
formed a juvenile crowd that any nation
might be proud of--healthy, happy and most
intelligent; youth itself is beauty, therefore, of
course, it largely preponderated. 1,100 child-
ren varying from six to twelve must be ex-
ceedingly well trained to preserve order
throughout, but such was the case to a marvel-
ous degree; their musical education has been
under the training of Brother Evan Stephens,
and they demonstrated that it had been both
careful and laborious, he has indeed performed
a labor of love; and he must love labor to have
been enabled to accomplish so satisfactory a
denouement as we were charmed to witness on
the 24th; the children not only performed the
mechanical part well, but they evidently felt
the music of the soul throughout. I saw
many little feet beating exact time, as they
had been taught to do, and their flags (for each
child held a small star spangled banner)
seemed devoted to the same office; every piece
was admirably executed, and must have
thrilled the soul of the Master, who of course
held the baton. Brother Evan Stephens has
shown himself a public benefactor to the
children of the Latter-day Saints; the cultiva-
tion of music, like all the fine arts, is a refin-
ing, elevating science; a soul devoted to music,
and living in the cultivation of it, must live
and breathe an atmosphere of purity and ele-
vation of soul that no language could portray.
Brother Stephens has introduced our children
into this heavenly studio; he has given them a
taste of the grand and the beautiful, has
called out the faculty that lay dormant within
them—and which I trust will never be al-
lowed to die or even fade from out their souls;
for music cheers and soothes those who love it
is nothing else can; there is a heavenliness
about it that speaks to our spirit of the Great
Creator!—I watched those children closely,
and I felt I could distinguish in them, young
as they were, an appreciation of their kind
and indefatigable music-master, and I trust
they will never forget him, but remember him
in days to come as one who struck "the Harp
of a thousand strings," that the beneficent
Creator has placed in every human heart in a
greater or lesser degree; remember that he
awakened this in their young hearts, never I
trust to sleep again; he has strung the chords
to a harmonious tension, and through all com-
ing life its æolian strains will never cease to vi-
brate, but be as a lamp burning eternally on
their heart and brain, preserving them from
everything that is low and grovelling. God
bless and reward Brother Evan Stephens, and
may his life be preserved to carry out his mis-
sion among the Latter-day Saints.
	Then came the representatives of nations in
costume, and this must have been a work of la-
bor—some of the dresses were most elaborate
and costly; Elizabeth and Leicester, Napoleon


[Column 1]
and Josephine, the Goddess of Liberty and
Washington, and all were arranged with care
and exactness. The National Anthems of the
most prominent countries were rendered ap-
propriately, and had a thrilling effect upon
that vast multitude, for it was as a voice of
childhood and youth, which music so thrilling-
ly awakens. I thought I had no nation-
ality left in me, but when "Rule Britania"
struck up its soul-thrilling tones there came a
choking feeling in my throat, that had not
tears flown out of my eyes I might—had I
known how—gone off into a faint or some-
thing as foolish, but when the "Star Spangled
Banner" was played I felt the same sensation,
which reconciles me to myself, for I love my
adopted country with a true and loyal devo-
tion, and have never desired to leave her for
a moment, but grateful hearts should remem-
ber old friends and associations. Miss Cole-
brook sang the "Star Spangled Banner" "with
her soul in her glance." Miss Agnes Olsen
was as she always is, sweet, modest and unpre-
tending; her voice speaks for itself. Miss
Druce and Mrs. Swan Hull are ever charm-
ing, and our dear old charmer, Mrs. Sarah
Olsen Langford, was so kind as to give us a
pleasing reminiscence—'tis vain to attempt to
enumerate, I have not room, but all did well;
and every arrangement was admirable, and
shewed mind and ability. I am not a judge
of the bagpipes, but if "the concord of sweet
sounds" can be infused into it Brother Dunbar
is the one to do it, for he has a soul for music,
and has rejoiced our hearts in Lang Syne,
when President Young would rise up in the
Tabernacle and call out, "Brother Dunbar,
come to the stand and give us "Oh Zion."
And the whole assembly would catch the in-
spiration, so powerful is the charm of music
that speaks volumes in a few moments to
every heart, speaking in their own tongue.
Music is certainly one of the voices of God!
Who does not know it? Could Bro. Dunbar
have given us the volume that opened before
him as he played his bagpipes he would have
become a second Orpheus, but at present our
best thouhts will not live, even upon our own
lyre.
	Brother Goddard, the indefatigable
Brother Goddard was as he always is, untir-
ing in helping on every good cause, especial-
ly that of the children, Sunday Schools, et
cetera. Long may he live to fill his place in
his own admirable way.
	As I sat among the assembled thousands on
that morning I felt my surroundings were a
glimpse of the grand and fondly anticipated
Future, and for a few moments I gave my
imagination full scope and believed an Ideal
of the Hereafter was before and around me!
And as Brother Cannon made his few but
touching remarks a wide field of thought
opened before me. He described the scene 36
years ago when two beings entered upon the
site where now stands our beantiful Metropolis!
Then a carpet of sage brush covered the earth,
and the ever glorious firmament canopied the
scene. I imagined their thoughts and feelings!
I saw them spring from their horses and throw
themselves upon their knees, I could hardly
fancy they were capable of words, but the at-
titude and the adoring eyes needed no words,
they were in themselves a mighty thanksgiv-
ing. They had escaped from taunting, mur-
derous mobs, and now stood free, as they had
never been before; no power around them but
that of God and angels! Think of it! realize
as I did their situation at that moment! It
was the reward of a life! it was a grand, a
sublime moment, and silence spoke trumpet-
tongued! There has been many moments of
like description witnessed by this people with-
in the last forty years; they know in whom
they trust; they know for themselves that God
is with them—and with the wise and good es-

[Column 2]
pecially, and with the leaders most especially
Oh, may we all live to be worthy of such
holy, snch especial guardianship, such especial
revelations! May July 24th, 1883, be a start-
ing point for increased vigilance, for increased
watchfulness of SELF, that we may have power
to call down an increasing approval, and that
the work of the last days may roll with in-
creasing rapidity, that the winding up scene
may come.


