HOME AFFAIRS.

	A VENERABLE WOMAN will be continued in
our next number. The manuscript having been
burned, there is some delay in getting the items.
	MISS EMMA ATKIN, daughter of George At-
kin, of Tooele City, is now spending her vaca-
tion at her home, after two years study in the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia. She 
has passed her examination in the first regular
course of study. Last year she spent her vaca-
tion in study with a class in elocution, in Coburg,
Canada. She will return to Philadelphia this
fall to pursue her medical studies, and graduate
as an M. D. She is a bright, intelligent girl,
and has all the necessary natural ability to suc-
ceed in the profession. Utah has just reason to
be proud of its young lady graduates.
	JOTTINGS BY THE WAY.—Is the title of a
neat little pamphlet of about 70 pages, by George
W. Johnson, St. George, Utah, containing songs
and poems, mostly of a religious tone, and some
prose articles that are very interesting. The
Johnsons were connected with the Church as
early as 1831; they are from the State of New
York, though the parents were from Massachu-
setts.
	Most of the poems are very good indeed, and
evince considerable poetic talent as well as a
mind clear to comprehend truth and the high-
er elements of human character. We see noth-
ing in it to condemn, and therefore commend it
to the Saints everywhere as worthy a place in
their libraries.
	NEW CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.—Dr. Romania B.
Pratt announces by advertisement that she will
commence a new class in midwifery on October
8th, at one o'clock p.m., at her office, over
Godbe, Pitts and Co's drug store. Her school in
this important branch of medicine, was estab-
lished in 1878, and has been eminently success-
ful, she having instructed two classes a year
from that time. Dr. Pratt is not only conver-
sant with the theory of the subject in its details,
but her active practical experience adds an im-
portant feature to her power to communicate
correctly all necessary information to her pupils.
Mrs. Pratt's office is pleasant and central, and as
the whole time is spent upon the subject in
hand, the student is enable to go to work
at once. The rooms are elegantly and conven-
iently fitted up for the course of lectures, and
she has all the needful apprutanances pertaining
to this branch of science, charts, manikin, etc.
Students from a distance can, by taking rooms
and boarding themselves, get along on compara-
tively limited expense. For terms see adver-
tisement.


