TO MY LITTLE BROTHERS.

	Now I do not know of anything that pleases
me more than reading about the "Children's
Fair" in the EXPONENT, and I feel like prais-
ing them for their noble efforts of industry, al-
though I am behind time in so doing, but I
have not forgotten what I have read about
their little specified articles. Methinks I see
their little fingers turning and trying to fit
everything to its place, and their young minds
active in forming something new for each com-
ing fair. How nice and good this is of them
to respond to the call of those who are trying
to teach them the principles of industry. Do
not one of you little boys and girls neglect to
take an active part in each coming fair where
you live, you can all do something. I will
make a few suggestions to awaken a interest
in boys learning trades, and that while young.
Have any of you made pottery-ware? Little
cups, plates, saucers, pitchers and jars for your
little sisters to put in their play houses. Now,
I will try to tell you how to make pottery
ware, if I have not forgotten the process. My
father was a potter, and when I was a child I
have stood by and looked on to see the lump of
useless clay made into things of all shapes
and kinds for domestic use. Our loaf sugar
was first made in clay molds of various sizes,
these I have seen made and warehouses full of
them before shipment. Thousands of dollars
have been made by their manufacture. I
promised to tell how these things were made,
we will work on a small scale. Get some good
clay, make it fine by hammering it on a board
with a mallet; make a bench a yard long and
a half yard wide, with a hole in the centre to
place an upright through, on this put a wheel
plat, there must be something at the bottom
like a small spinning wheel arrangement to
move the wheel around with the feet.
	Make a high stool to sit on, put a basin of
water on the bench to wet your hands and the
clay, have a piece of thin wire, put a piece of
clay the size of an orange on the wheel, wet
the clay and wheel before putting it on, wet
your hands, now turn the wheel quickly, put
both hands around the clay and form it bulging
in the middle, place your finger in the centre to
make a hole, then use both hands to draw out
until your flower pot is made, take the wire
with both hands and carry it under the pot,
this cuts it off the wheel, place it on a board
to stiffen and dry, bake it in an oven.
	The potter can make any shaped vessel out
of clay on the wheel when in motion with his

[Column 2]
hands, without a pattern. Now, little boys,
would you not like to make dishes in this easy
way; you could sit all day at your work and
only get off your seat when the vessel is fin-
ished to place it upon the board to dry. You
must get your father to assist you in learning
to make those little things, and bring them to
the fair, and bring your bench and let us see
how it is made. You can find in the Scrip-
ture where it says you can make a vessel to
honor or dishonor. But I hope my dear
young friends may grow up to manhood ves-
sels of honor in the Kingdom of their Hea-
venly Father. I should like also to tell the
boys how to make felt hats if I do not make
my article too long. Two of my own
brothers and two brothers-in-law were hatters,
and my trade was to trim them. I worked
at it in the States and here in the city. I
trimmed hats for Brother Heywood and my
brother. I think a trade is a good help for
either sex, by this means I helped to support
myself and children while my husband was on
his various missions sounding the Gospel
trump to the nations. I have wandered from
my subject, I was going to tell how hats were
made.
	Heat a kettle full of water. Take a smooth
board and nail it on a stand, make the two
front legs shortest so that the water can run
ihto the kettle, make a proper height to stand
by. Get skins of animals and pluck out the
coarse hair, put this by itself, then pluck out
the fine, using a knife for this purpose. Take
the coarse and dip in the hot water, it will
begin to cling and pull together, then com-
mence to stretch and roll the piece up, free-
ly dipping in the hot water, stretch the cloth
in a round piece, make a round block of wood
large enough for a doll's hat, while wet pull it
over the block and leave a piece for the brim,
turn down with the block inside with the brim
on the board, and let it dry in shape. You
can leave it the natural color or dye it black.
This is what is called the fulling process. Now
try, boys, and make a doll's hat for the fair.
	To be continued to the little girls.
