PIONEER DAY.
The Twenty Fourth of July, Pioneer Day.
A Sabbath for the Saints. Blessed be the day
forever. Many thoughts crowd themselves into
my mind this morning. The contrast of thirty-


[Column 1]
﻿six and forty years ago. Well might the Pio-
neers shout from the fulness of their hearts,
when their eyes first beheld the broad acres of
this beautiful valley. They saw in vision the
future home of the Saints loom up in beauty
and grandeur; they saw a safe retreat from their
oppressors; they viewed with pleasure the lofty
mountains; the limped water flowing down
through the rugged canyons; and notwithstand-
ind the aspect of the country generally was for-
bidding, even that was in their favor, for no one
was so greedy as to desire its prssession in those
days. Here was a place for the Saints to rest
their weary feet; here was ground to stand upon;
here was water to drink and sagebrush to burn;
and with the few pounds of flour, and perhaps a
few ounces of sugar and tea. What more could
a people want? Well the peace and protective
influence that pervaded the place supplied the
lack of other things, for surely the people were
destitute of almost every earthy comfort. How
could it be otherwise, after being driven from
their homes and possessions time after time?
I look back upon the early days of this church;
the days in Nauvoo; when the Prophet Joseph
was with us; when he taught ME the principles
of plural marriage; my obedience to the same;
the varied circumstances attending it; his cruel
death; our exodus from our homes in the cold
winter, and the incidents attending our journey
in the wilderness; our arrival in these valleys.
I look with wonder upon the change that has been
wrought in the comparatively few years that
have past since we first arrived here; and I ex-
claim, "Surely the Lord's protecting hand has
been over this people!" In the days of Nauvoo
the holy order of celestial marriage was in its in-
fancy; it was not taught publicly, consequently
the people generally did not know of it. After
we crossed the Mississippi River it was not con-
sidered necessary to any longer conceal it. I
remember after crossing the river I sat myself
upon a fallen tree with my babe in my arms;
the snow was falling in large flakes, thick and
fast. I was cold and hungry, for food and cloth-
ing were scarce, and much had to be done before
comfortable quarters could be provided. Many
eyes were turned upon me, or rather upon my
baby; some with favor and some with disfavor
or contempt. Spiteful things were said, and the
oppressive influence that hovered over and
around me was so distressing that it seemed as
though I must sink; but God has sustained me
through it all.
	Spiritual wives, as we were then termed, were
not very numerous in those days, and a spiritual 
baby was a rarity indeed. On our journey from
Nauvoo the Saints would stop and form small 
settlements to recruit. I stopped at one of these
places a short time. Company after company
passed, and many hearing that a "spiritual wife
and child" were there, curiosity led them to
seek an interview. All pronounced the child
a bright and beautiful boy, the hondsomest child
they ever saw. And it was a child too born in
that despised relation called plural marriage.
Well, time has proved that all who professed to
be Saints were not Saints. Some did not like
that peculiar religious principle, although they
pretended so to do.
	I remember when my babe was about eighteen
months old I took him to a neighbors', one
woman looked at him and said, "Well, that is
the smartest spiritual child I ever saw." Another
lady asked her if she did not think spiritual
children were as smart as other children. She
answered she did not. I had my own thoughts.
Was it consistent to think the Lord would com-
mand his people to adopt a system of marriage
that would degenerate the mind of the human
species? I could not see it in that light. Well,
[...] those days the principle was new and strange,
[Column 2]
and so different from our traditions and the cus-
toms of our former lives, that we cannot wonder
that some balked a little. The contrast of to-
day and thirty-six years ago is very great in 
many respects. All know how it is to-day; but
few know how it was then. Now we see thrift
and plenty. The people have good homes and
an abundance of the comforts of life. Then it
was poverty and privation, toil and hardship.
But few children had been born in the celestial
order of marriage; now a great portion of this
territory is peopled with men and women born
in the order of plural, or celestial marriage,
with large families born and growing up in the
same holy order of matrimony, being taught in
all the pure principles of the Gospel. Truly the
Lord's hand is over this people for good. Blessed
be the name of the Lord.
								E. Dow.
	Salt Lake City, July 24th, 1883.


