DEAR EDITOR:
	I am brim full of contempt and disgust at
the actions and rulings of the grand jury,
prosecuting attorney and judges, the whole heap
of them, Senator Edmunds included; and if
you can find or imagine any words which can
more fully express my contempt consider them
said. It is a disgrace to the whole nation the
way they are abusing that noble woman, Belle
Harris and her baby. Never glory in being an
American citizen again. I was born in Englandl
so I wont have to share the odium that is fast
making the United States a biss and a bye word
amongst the Monarchial Governments of the
world. Don't talk about the Spanish Inquisition
or the Star Chamber after this abuse of an inno-
cent woman. If the United States are not in-
augurating a religious persecution against the
Latter-day Saints I am mistaken; (I know I am
not) they have taken the right of franchise for
doing that which was not an offence at the
time of commital; they drag women and babes
from their homes and put them in prison with-
out trial of any kind, because they refuse to
answer impudent questions; granting, for the
sake of argument, that she is a plural wife and
has children in the marriage relation, which I
don't know anything about never having seen
the lady, what right have they to make her
criminate herself; is this just? They would for-
bid such a question to a murderer or a bank rob-
ber, but she, poor thing, is a Mormon, that
makes all the difference. There is something
said in the Declaration of Independence, (a
noble instrument), about worshiping God ac-
cording to the dictates of our own conscience,
and "taxation without representation." Oh!
but that you don't mean you Mormons, Oh no! "We
the Federal officials, have power under the Ed-
munds Law to persecute you until you bend
your consciences to our august will. We, the
Federal officials, under the Edmunds Law, will
blot out of your souls every religious sentiment
that is obnoxious to the minority who dwell in
Utah; we mean to pop all women into the Peni-
tentiary who have children in the marriage rela-
tion that we don't approve of; we will confiscate


all your property that we desire, with or without
law; we will degrade your children all we can;
we will heap insult on insult upon you until
you revolt, then we will call on the military to
exterminate you; mobs have killed your prophets,
your men, women and children before, and may
do so again. The American Nation is a great
nation, but you are only a handful of poor de-
luded fools; we are going to get rid of you now;
you have made this country so that we can live
in it, and we intend to have it for us and the
minority to dwell in."
	Yes, you have done these things, and more;
you have insulted and imprisoned our best men,
women and children, and will continue to do so
until the Lord says, enough. Then woe, woe,
unto you, for the plagues, sorrows and desolation
that will fall on you and follow your footsteps
wherever you may go; you shall see your dear-
est hopes blasted and come to naught, and the
cup of sorrow you are pressing to the lips of the
Latter-day Saints you shall drain to the dregs,
for it is your wages; the measure you give you
shall receive.					MARY.
	Grantsville, July 27th, 1883.


