MY OWN DEAR MOTHER:
	I tried so hard to write last night, but was so
tired that I fell asleep when I was writing.
Belle and I left St. Louis on the railway train
after eight o'clock on the evening of the 23rd,
and arrived at Montrose, Iowa, at five a.m. We
had such a day yesterday, such tramping
around that at night when we did stop we were
perfectly worn out. I was delighted with Nau-
voo. It is really a beautiful place, but such
stillness, such death-like silence, I never
dreamed of; they call it "The deserted City,"
and it is well named. Its situation is more
picturesque than anything I ever saw, and it
has such a weird, sad attraction about it for me,
that my eyes constantly filled with tears in spite
of all my efforts to keep them back. It was a
cool gray morning that we arrived at Montrose,
and the river was very quiet. We crossed in a
boat, and waited on the other side until our fel-
low traveler could go and find Mr. Smith and
his spring wagon to take us up to the hotel; he
soon came back with the old gentlemen and his
wagon. We rode up quite slow, so very slow,
that often I had to watch a stone or some object
on the ground to tell whether we were really
moving or not. However we did not mind, for
we had a splendid chance to look around at the
green fields, vineyards and beautiful hedges,
and the old tumbled down houses. Mr. Smith
pointed out to us several places where people
had lived whom we knew very well; it was very 
affecting. I thought of your sufferings, how 
perhaps you had gone through these same
streets, and of all the sorrow and trouble you
had known right there when you were so young.
It seemed like a dream that I, your youngest
daughter, should be so blessed as to have the
privilege of seeing all these same places. We
arrived at the German Hotel, called the Temple
House, about six o'clock Tuesday morning, July
24th; every one around us was German, but of
course they could all speak a little English.
	The house faced the north, and we had a nice,
large, quiet room up stairs with a porch in front,
and from it we could see where the old Temple
used to stand; we were exactly one block east of
it across the street. We had breakfast and be-
fore we went up to our room again, went up to
see what was left of the Temple, but where it
once stood is a nice, new, frame house, and the
store on the south west corner of the block is
built entirely of the Temple rock; it is as 
smooth and white as ever, and they say it does

[Column 2]
not wear away one particle. This store is used
for a drug store and post office, and is very
large, 100 ft. by 30. Ever so many foundations
and houses around there seemed to be made of 
this same rock, and several here have carriage
steps made of it, how we envied them; from
there we went one block east, and saw a very
little square house, built of the same rock, we
went in among the trees, it was a perfect grove,
and found that this was the city park, and the
little house was used as a sort of store house.
A man who was working in the park told us
that Mrs. Clark, who lived on the hill, could tell
us who had lived in all the old houses, but he
knew nothing, so we left him and started for
Mrs. Clark's; we went in several old houses to
inquire the way there.  * * The houses
are almost all occupied by Dutch people; we at
last found Mrs. Clark and her two widowed
daughters; they were very pleasant, and so kind
to us. We were a long time deciding whether
to go in or not, but we thought if we were not
courageous enough for that we would not find
out anything so (we braced up) so to speak, and
went in, and as I have already said, they were
very kind, and insisted on our stopping to dinner;
she went out with us and showed us where the
rest of the Temple rock was that had been
bought by Mr. Ritter, a very rich old man; one
of the daughters went over with us, and we saw
all there was to see, hunted round for a piece
with carving on, but only found one of those
immense heads, and it was perfect; the stone
was scattered over the whole block, and he has
sold a great deal; it hardly seemed possible there
could have been so much in the building. One
large piece with carving on, he sold to a man
from Chicago for $300, and he would not sell
that head for less; he gave us some small speci-
mens. We had dinner, and then, accompanied
by the two girls, walked down through the
beautiful fields, and passed the hedges (I never
saw anything so pretty as the hedges) to hunt
up some places, first we called on a Mrs. Ravel,
not knowing what she was. They told us she
knew so much, and she did, but much it was,
too many lies, a perfect hornet's nest, and we got
out as soon as possible; from there we came first
to Uncle Joseph Young's house, and it is a 
beautiful place! The largest evergreens I ever
saw, a fountain and a great many flowers; the
house, they said, was almost the same; two
story brick, with frame top, with little windows
and green shutters. From there we saw Brig-
ham Young's old house, story and a half brick—
west wing looks old, but there are some people
living there. We next went to the most interest-
ing place, the old Nauvoo Mansion. Mrs. Hudson
lives there. She took us through the house.
We first went in the parlor, with its large,
black mantle-piece; next the long dining-room,
where they told us they brought Joseph after he
was killed. * * *
*	It was full of old things, some china,
and everything was old all over. * * *
From there went to the kitchen where the old
well was, and had a drink out of the same old
well. They told us there had been no change
made in any part of the house. The water was
refreshing. * * We saw at the right
hand side of the kitchen the room that Mother
Smith had occupied; everything looked very old
and worn out. She took us up stairs into the
Prophet Joseph's room and into the closet where,
it is said, he used to hide, but she could not open
the secret door that leads up on the roof; she
told us of it, and said her son knew how to do it,
but we saw no door; we went in all the rooms,
and saw the same old stairs. Oh! how much we
thought of you, and wished you with us, but we
were afraid it would be too much for you. From
there we went to the Riverside Mansion, once
the "Nauvoo House," that was just started


[Column 1]
when you left. Some of it has been taken
down, and the main building is finished, or part-
ly so; Bydeman, once Emma Smith's husband,
and his wife live in it; its walls made me think 
of the Council House walls, they were so thick;
the first story is built of white stone just like the
Temple, and the walls of the first floor of one of
the wings of the same stone is still standing, it
alone is 123 ft. long, so you can imagine how
long they intended it to be. The other stories
are of brick, and all speak of how remarkable,
it is, that they should have stood so long. The
staircase is of walnut. The river is just a few
steps from the west door; the oak trees are still
standing; trumpet vines and the flowers have
climbed to the top, and looks beautiful. We 
bought a picture of Joseph Smith, and saw pic-
tures of the whole family. In their parlor was
the old secretary owned by Hyrum Smith, and
it is elegant, but very old fashioned; an old
checker table that Joseph owned, also a bureau
that was very handsome, and an old center
table elegantly carved. We then went across 
the street to Joseph's old home and drank out of
that old well too, and saw the grave-yard. The
house is just the same old house. *
*		We saw where they said he and his
brother lay; the grave is between two locust
trees; we also saw the little fruit frame
that stood over the grave for years; next we 
saw his old house, it was well preserved, not
used for anything. From there we went to
Aaron Johnson Esq's. old house. The old print-
ing office was moved away up the river, but we
saw the house, and went all through it. they
took the old fire-place away last winter, but the
rest is much the same; the sweetest young
married woman lived there; she was so kind,
and felt so sorry for us because we cried. She
had a sweet little baby about as large as Belle's,
with blue eyes. I cannot express my feelings
here, I was completely broken down, and could
think of nothing but you, my own sweet mother,
and of your sorrow. Next we went to H. C.
Kimball's, and it is a grand looking house; right
in the center of the old house is a white rock
about two yards in length with H. C. K, 1845, 
engraved upon it. There are some Germans liv-
ing in the house; they were very kind to us and 
took us all through the house; we went in the
large room * *	and the two bedrooms;
up stairs in all the rooms, and into the third
story, and up on to the observatory; there is the
most beautiful view from there I ever saw. I
thought of Aunt Helen, and I don't blame her
for speaking so often of her home, for it is beau-
tiful. I brought her a piece of a large evergreen.
They have built a wing on and the whole
place looks lovely; there is also a large block of
redstone on the east side of the house with the
same ingraving on. Next we went to where
Belle's father, Bishop Whitney, lived; the house
is all gone, and the prettiest place in Nauvoo
stands on the ground where his home stood; the
old back steps were there still. Then we went
to what used to be the old graveyard; some of 
the old graves are still left in the people's lots,
and others are moved to the new cemetery.
From there we went back to the hotel. Mr
Smith, the old man that took us around, told us
that all Joseph's prophecies had come true but
one, and that was about the "Mormons" coming
back. He said Joseph said it should become a
vineyard, and the Mormons should drink the
wine, and at that time there were no grapevines
there. Now it is indeed a beautiful vineyard;
miles and miles of grapevines and nothing else,
and we had some of the wine in St. Louis. He
also said it should be deserted, and should be as
a dead city; and oh, that is true! There is some-
thing about the death-like stillness that you
cannot express. I forgot to tell you that we went 

[Column 2]
out to Joseph Smith's farm and drank out of 
the very old well. Oh, such a day, I never ex-
pect to see anything like it again; such feelings,
ma; they are beyond all description. Every step
I took I wondered if you had ever been there,
and oh, how I did long to speak to you, and ask
you questions! It seemed as if you must be
there, and I would turn around to look. I never
had such a strange feeling. I could not find
father's house, but saw the Masonic Hall, where
they told me he once had his office, during some
trial, but there was an old gentleman, a Mr.
Morrell, that called on me last night, and was
to call this morning, that could have told me
everything, but we came away so early that I
could not see him again. We had to come on
this steamer for there was no telling when
there would be another, and we feel anxious to
get on our way esst. I should love to see you
all. There is never one moment that you are
not in our thoughts. I wanted so much to say
my letter was from Nauvoo, but it was so near,
just as we left, that I guess I might say so. * *
I do not forget any of you in my prayers, but
constantly pray for the health and safety of you
all. Give our love to all the folks and to all the
children. I shall try and write up my first
steam-boat ride for you. We are going from St.
Louis to Chicago, and then I expect to go direct
to Massachusetts. Good night, dear heart.
	Lovingly,
