			TWO DREAMS.

	What does it indicate to dream of snakes?
It means enemies, is the quick reply; and it
seems quite reasonable; to dream of a slimy,
venomous snake coiling and writhing around
you and suddenly to feel its quick  power-
ful bite cannot indicate anything that is good.

			[Column 2]
	Now comes the query, who can it mean? and
the mind will quickly revert to some one who
has said or done something that did not seem
quite right—one whom we had thought was our
friend, in whose company we had spent hours
of pleasure and satisfaction—one in whom we
had trusted and confided (too much perhaps)
we will think with an already awakening sus-
picion; and we cull over in our minds things
that have passed between us of a little unpleas-
ant nature, and though we had dropped them
at the time as not worth thinking about, they
now begin to assume gigantic proportions.
Shall we now begin to hold ourselves aloof and
to watch her with a jealous eye? Common
sense answers, no, it is unsaintlike, and unbe-
coming those of our profession to harbor such
feelings in our hearts; besides, do not those
smooth-tongued hypocritical beings originate
principally in the minds of novel writers? Is
there not some good in nearly all mankind,
and are we not too ready to think evil of each
other, and to disregard these words:? "Be full
of charity, for charity covereth a multitude of
sins."
	I will give another version of the dream.
The serpent is surely the enemy of all man-
kind—both saint and sinner are liable, accord-
ing as they give him power, to feel is venom-
ous sting; and this will be so until Satan is
bound, for he is ever on the alert to lead astray
the children of men, and to cause them to do
that which will debar them for an exaltation
in the kingdom of God. Artful and cunniug,
he will know the weak points in each one's na-
ture, and where he cannot induce them to com-
mit great crimes he will sow seeds of discord,
of jealousy and hatred; for he knows where
there is unity there is strength, and where
families and communities are bound together
by the strong ties of affection—where there is
a oneness of interest, feelings and desires,
there he is cast out and hath no abiding place
in their hearts. Let us illustrate for instance
your dear ones—those whose welfare and hap-
pinesss you prize above all else—in short you
feel as though an exaltation in the kingdom of
God would be incomplete without their pres-
ence and their love, your soul is drawn out
continually with a desire to see them advance
in all good works, that they may overcome the
adversary of mankind. They each have their
different friends and associates; and lo, you be-
hold the repulsive form of the venomous rep-
tile slowly and continually winding its way be-
tween them; suddenly he will dart his fiery
venom one way and another, and their unsus-
pecting, unguarded hearts must feel his sting,
yet all unconscious of his presence they hug
him closer and closer, and all your warnings
and pleadings and your grief seem of little
avail. He blinds their eyes to their own
faults, yet magnifies the faults of others; even
your own unselfish wishes for the good of all
are miscontrued, and you are accused on both
sides of partiality and a disregard for their
welfare; but you cannot cherish and uphold
one at the expense of the other, and wherever
you see the green eyes of the monster peering
you strike at them, though you should wound
a loved one in so doing.
	If you succeed in getting one who you have
perhaps considered a little the most bitter in
their feelings to take a step or two towards the
reconciliation and union you so much desire,
the other is sure to be more that usually obsti-
nate. Thus the gap seems to widen and all your
hopes to be frustrated. Oft you pray and weep
in secret, and so time goes on and on. Some-
times when sad and weary with the struggle
you seek a word of sympathy, but meet a re
buff where you least expected it; some thought-
less, unkind expression will add the one drop
too much for your over charged heart, and
long after the one who so unintentionally
added the drop is resting in quiet sleep, un-

			[Column 3]
conscions of the storm of grief their words
have awakened, you will live over and over
again scenes through which you passed with
so much apparent fortitude. Your head and
your heart seem bursting; your nerves strung
to their utmost tension, and still your thoughts
fly with uncontrolable swiftness, and the bit-
ter tears flow until the small hours come, and
you are aware that the morrow will find you
all unfit for your duties and responsibilities,
and you strive with all your powers of self
command to quiet your nerves and court sleep.
	At length in that half unconscious state be-
tween sleeping and waking, your every pulse
throbbing with pain, another scene passes be-
fore you, the death bed—not the death bed of
your loved ones that you have lived over so
oft, but one that perhaps you think of less
frequently, yourself.
	This is not difficult to imagine in your pres-
sent state of mind and body, and you see your
dear ones whom you are to leave behind
gathered around, their faces expressive of
anxiety and grief. Your eye glances from face
to face and you call for other dear friends who
though at enmity with some present, are still
near and dear to you. They come; and in low
but earnest words you make them understand
your desire to see them reconciled with each
other. With an eloquence awakened by near
approach to the last great change, you point
out the way—you give them this key—that all
that is good, all that tends to bind together
with unity and love, the desire to overcome
evils in themselves, and a willingness to over-
look faults in others, comes from God—that
the opposite of this comes from the evil one,
and should be avoided, as it will surely lead to
misery, both in this life and the life to come.
You entreat them by their hope of the great,
reunion with those dearest ones who have gone
before, their desire for joy, happiness and
peace, and an exaltation in the kingdom of
God; to be ever humble and prayerful, that
they may oyercome the evil and cleave to
the good. Then with joy at seeing upon each
face a determination to give heed to your
words you close your eyes, not in death, but
into that rest that you so much need. Could
not some of us profit by this dream while we
are still spared to dwell together?
