(To be continued)
Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington
THE world can be very cruel to children at times. The glad Christmas time is sometimes the cruelest. Recently the mother of an only girl, a girl of nine, was telling of her experience when the child first found out about Santa Claus. The mother had told Mary that Santa Claus was a mythical person and still the child had seen the Santas here and there so why should she not believe him a person? One day at school, however, Mary was told that her parents were Santa Claus and that was why she had been disappointed on many occasions; that the parents got her what they wanted to get, not what she asked for. This mother was terribly upset, for there had been times when Mary had not received what she asked for. With the cooperation of an aunt and uncle, the father and mother interested Mary in a list of her own, helped her to shop and to find little gifts for a number of people. Mary was soon so absorbed in what she was doing that when she was asked what she wanted she replied, "Oh, I don't care what I get. You surprise me, as I am going to surprise you." All the sorrow was taken out of this first real Christmas by bringing into it unselfishness, cooperation, love and the thrill of presenting a gift that brought forth the expression "just what I needed."
I HAVE often thought how perfect Thanksgiving and Christmas day would be, if, just at evening a beautiful church service was arranged in each ward. The association of friends helps us better to appreciate our blessings.
TOO much cannot be said about the influence of evenings at home with the family. These little social and religious affairs bring the children closer to the parents. They afford an opportunity for the parents to observe changing growth and needs of the children that cannot be obtained in any other way. These occasions can be preparations for Sunday School, Seminary, M. I. A. Or Primary. Three minute talks, songs and readings can well be used here to give confidence to the performer. A little refreshment, served by the children, teaches poise and social conduct that in many homes is neglected.
TO all who have made written or verbal suggestions, criticism and appreciation of this little page, I convey my sincere appreciation. If the readers have in any small way benefited, I am sincerely happy. At the end of a year then, may I wish you the Season's greetings and with the New Year, "May your dreams come true."