Memorial Postage Stamp for Miss Anthony
PRESIDENT ROBISON has received a letter from Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the National Council of Women, stating that she had just learned that in honor of the memory of Susan B. Anthony, Postmaster General Farley has been asked to issue a memorial postage stamp in commemoration of the 115th anniversary of Miss Anthony's birth, which occurs on February 15, 1935. President Robison immediately wired Postmaster General James A. Farley the following telegram: "The National Woman's Relief Society of Latter-day Saint Church Sixty-nine thousand strong urges the proposed issue of a memorial postage stamp in commemoration of the 115th anniversary of Susan B. Anthony's birth February 15th 1935. Every member of organization will be proud to use these stamps." Miss Anthony stands out as one of the foremost women of all time in promoting the interests of her sex. The Relief Society in various ways have been glad to honor this great woman, and would be delighted if these stamps are issued, to use them extensively.
'Mormonism and Freemasonry," by Anthony W. Ivins
PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS completed and had the satisfaction of seeing published just before his death a most valuable volume, 'Mormonism and Freemasonry." He wrote this to answer statements made in a pamphlet entitled "Mormonism and Masonry." In his introduction he says, "It is obvious to one familiar with the subject that "Mormonism and Masonry" is simply another of the many abortive attempts which have been made to explain the calling of Joseph Smith, and the opening of the Gospel Dispensation of the Fulness of Times by other means than the direct interposition of God our Father, and Christ our Lord, his Only Begotten Son." "It is the purpose of the writer of this reply to discuss the relationship of Mormonism to Freemasonry in a spirit of fairness and truth, to answer the criticisms of Mr. Goodwin, and leave Masons and Mormons and others who are not affiliated with either organization to decide whether the attitude assumed by the author of the booklet referred to is well taken." President Ivins points out the conclusions reached regarding Mormonism and step by step makes clear the errors made in the deductions formed. Knowing the restored Gospel thoroughly and strong in his adherence he clearly and unequivocally shows that Mormonism does not take its origin nor is it indebted in any way to the teachings of Masonry, but has come, as it affirms, through the administration of God the Father and his Son, Jesus Christ. Price $1.50, Deseret Book Co.