A TRIBUTE James L. Barker, Professor of Modern Languages, University of Utah In Miss Alice L. Reynolds, the Relief Society has secured an editor for the Magazine of unusual ability and rare training. There are few who both speak and write as well as she. Her thinking is discriminating, searching and original, and her thoughts are enhanced by a most harmonious, clear and illuminating English. Undoubtedly her abilities are the endowment of nature, but they have been developed by a training so rich and varied as not to be appreciated even by all of her friends. Two trips abroad and innumerable trips to the East, often in the interest of women's organizations, have helped to intensify her sympathies and broaden her understanding of people. Attendance at the universities of Michigan, Chicago, California and London, have enabled her to study under many of the best masters in this country and abroad. ~ ' Her students at the Brigham Young University know to what ALICE LOUISE REYNOLDS 171 a degree she enables them to appreciate all that is fine, elevated and true in the thought and feeling of the past, and how she instills in them the desire to produce, and inspires them with the high ideals to which she herself is so loyal. Her field of activity is now widened to include all the Church, and few could be so fit for the task. For, if she is well fitted intellectually for the work, she is still better qualified by her personal qualities. Few have so wide a circle of friends in so many different occupations in life both within and without the state. Her ability to make friends, to interest, stimulate and influence them is phenomenal. Like Goethe's friend, Herder, she has the gift to stir up thoughts, and often to see them grow and be given expression by others. She is able to interest and influence all sorts of people because of a sympathetic insight that discovers the good in everyone. She is free from prejudice, yet unflinchingly loyal to her friends, her ideals, her state and her Church. She possesses a great fund of information on all sorts of subjects and an uncanny power to gather up the loose ends of thought, to condense and crystallize. In expression she is personal and original and apt in the use of fresh illuminating figures of speech. At the same time her effectiveness is wholy unassuming and entigely free from any kind of affectation or pose. After her work as helpful critic, writer and editor, her greatest service in her new field* will be the dissemination of the influence of a high tvpe Latter-day Saint woman of unshaken faith. Dr. A. E. Winship, editor of The Journal of Education, in writing to President I. S. Harris of the recent action whereby Professor Reynolds is to divide her time between the B. Y. U.. And the , expresses himself as follows: "T am very much interested to hear of the combination, as you know I regard her as a woman of very exceptional talent. I have not been satisfied personally or professionally to have her confine her energy and talent to class-room work. "On the other hand, I have felt that the spirit of the classroom was indispensable to her best life. It is not too much to say that no woman has done so much for the library of any institution as she has done for your library. She could never have done it, if she had been merely a librarian. JI have the same feeling about her other work; that she will do vastly more for the university if she gives time regularly to real writing." The Wisdom of Folly Ellen Thornycroft Fowler—(Mrs. Felkins) The cynics say that every rose Is guarded by a thorn which grows To spoil our posies: But I no pleasure therefore lack; I keep my hands behind my back When smelling roses. 'Tis proved that Sodom's apple-tarts Have ashes as component parts, For those that steal them: My soul no disillusion seeks, I love my apple's rosy cheeks, But never peel them. Though outwardly a gloomy shroud, The inner half of every cloud Is bright and shining: I therefore turn my clouds about, And always wear them inside out To show the lining. Our idols' feet are made of clay, So stony-hearted critics say, With scornful mockings: My images are deified Because I keep them well supplied With shoes and stockings. My modus operandi this— To take no heed of what's amiss; And not a bad one: Because, as Shakespeare used to say, A merry heart goes twice the way That tires a sad one.—Selected.