NATIONAL GARDEN WEEK Over one hundred national organizations will unite in observing National Garden Week. The plan has the approval of President Harding. Women's organizations throughout the United States will unite with the various garden-clubs of the country to promote the work of the week. The General Board of the Relief Society endorses the movement and asks that aid be given it by Relief Society officers and members wherever possible. We are including a part of the Garden Week program of the national committee which is offered as suggestive material for a Relief Society or community program: "Gardening—an all-the-year-round interest; the home garden for health and pleasure—vegetables as health builders—beautifying the home with window boxes, shrubs, etc.—beautifying the home grounds; community gardens—sociological effect of gardens —an aid in quieting some of the unrest that is abroad in the land; garden talks illustrated—including wild flowers and wild garden spots of charm and beauty; transforming the waste places—gardens versus weeds and rubbish; parks and playgrounds—a physical, mental, and moral tonic; our friends, the trees—planting a tree for memory's sake; the school garden and home gardens under school supervision; planning the garden—starting the seeds— preparing the soil—garden tools and their care—caring for the plants —harvesting; garden enemies—the cutworm, bugs, tussock moth, etc.; garden friends—earthworm, toad, etc.; use of garden products—beautifying the school grounds—tree planting in school grounds—preservation of wild flowers, trees, plants, and shrubs— bird protection—bird feeding—organization of junior Audubon clubs; the garden in song and story—the garden in art and poetry —landscape gardening in relation to natural and scenic beauty— the small garden in relation to the architecture of the home— preservation of wild flowers—needed state legislation." THE AWAKENING Nina Burnham McKean Winter with his robe of snow, Over all the world below, Such a cover soft and white, Making brown old earth so bright With a veil as soft as down, Like a bride in wedding gown; Nothing even lifts its head, - From the soft and chilly bed All are sleeping 'neath its folds Ugly scars and year old molds; Yet I think I see a hint, Where on snowflakes sunbeams glint, That the spring is drawing near, Calling sleeping life to hear, Now in flowering fields of green, Is earth's resurrection scene. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS: - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT -: - -: "First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - -- - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -:,- -: - - 'General 'Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empe Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs Jeannette A. B ede Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. MeLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosanna C. Irvine Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist Business Manager - - - -. Jeannette A. Hyve Assistant Manager -: - -: - Amy Brown LyMan Room 20, Bishop's Building. Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. X APRIL, 1923 No. PHILOSOPHIC DESPAIR OF THE WORLD Fifteen years ago the world believed, generally speaking, that its past was full of glory and its future full of promise. No platform topic was more popular than the "Heir of the Ages," very likely suggested, by Tennyson's famous lines, "I, the heir of all the ages in the foremost files of time." Orators took a great deal of delight in recounting the world's achievements in art, literature, science, and invention. They pointed with great pride to the fact that modern invention had practically revolutionized the world. Now with the facts much the same as they were, the world has suddenly lost much of its pride, and facing the future with much of despair. It is in the position of a boy with a bright colored toy balloon that has suddenly received a puncture—there is nothing left. Since the cessation of the world's war, we have suffered much from many varieties of depression, financial, intellectual, spiritual, etc. We have been deluged with a flood of depressing literature. Philosophy, never very optimistic at best, has grown intolerably pessimistic. In the March 3 issue of the Literary Digest is an article entitled, '""The Growing Philosophic Despair," which is quite true to the situation as many know it. The paragraph reads as follows: "No salvation, no immortality, nothing but economic collapse at the end—this is the philosophic fear which the contemporary literature of despair holds for us, and which is likely, we are told, to do considerable harm unless counteracted. The mechanistic philosophy, as it is being taught in some of our colleges and universities and in the published works of some of the philosophers 198 schooled in psychology, biology, chemistry, and physics, is inculcating in the man-on-the-street the idea that he is little more than an animated clod, and that the universe is a mere machine without sympathy or purpose." In the midst of this uncertainty. And mental depression which is closing in on the people of the world from many sides, we turn to the Latter-day Saints, who would rally at any moment to the slogan, "The past is full of glory and the future full of promise." Particularly would they feel this as it touches their own history. Weare rapidly approaching the centenary of the organization of the Church. On the sixth day of this month, ninety-three years will have elapsed since its organization. The Latter-day Saints have not escaped the financial depression growing out of conditions caused by the world's war, but they have escaped in very large measure the spiritual and intellectual depression that has taken such a strong hold of people, particularly in intellectual circles. The condition extant in the world today is not to be wondered at, for its philosophy of life and its religions, in many instances, have been weighed in the balance and found wanting; consequently it feels that civilization is a failure and Christianity no success. Joseph Smith repeatedly warned the people of just such a condition, and told them that to follow a man-made philosophy, and ignore the word of God, could only result in their ultimate destruction. On the other hand, all of the leaders of Israel have told the members of the Church that to the extent that they would heed the counsel of those called to preside over them, to that same extent thev sheuld grow and progress and have great jov and rejoicing in all their undertakings. Despite the fact that there are imperfections in Zion, and some conditions to be overcome that are not in accord with the principles and ideals of the Latter-day Saints, nevertheless this coming anniversary of the Church will bring joy and rejoicing to the people of the Lord. The year's statistics will show growth in essentials. From many sides comes evidence that we are being watched by the thinking people of the world. Not long ago a gentleman who has been engaged for many years as a teacher in our Church schools, related a conversation he had with the president of a well-known girls' college in the East. He reported the president as saying, "We have not been able to cope with the world conditions, but our eyes are upon your people hoping for their success. There are those praying for you who are not of your faith, but who, nevertheless, are very anxious for your success." The Latter-day Saints face the past with pride, and look forward to a future that looms big with promise. Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) Fast Day OBSERVANCE 1. The Grea: Purpose. Like every other provision of the gospel the Fast Day has behind it the happiness of the human family. 2. The Self Disciplinary Value of Fast Day Observance. The joy of discovery is said to be the greatest of all in the intellectual field. In the presence of new truth the soul shouts, "I have found it,' to the forgetfulness of all else, and flies forth in an ecstasy that caused the Greek philosopher to rush from his bathroom into the street shouting, "Eureka! Eureka!" But there is a happiness second to none that comes from a consciousness of self-control. The feeling of self-mastery is a joy supreme. In "the temptation" the attack of the evil one was ill-timed. It was at an hour of self victory with the Great Exemplar, the hour of strongest resistance. It was at the close of a period of abstinence; and the victories that followed, culminating in the authoritative exclamation, "Get thee behind me, Satan," are object lessons to us. All, attesting the value of a training in self-discipline through fasting. Consistent abstinence in fasting gives the whole soul an acquaintance with the joy of self-conquest in that particular and makes more certain self-discipline in other directions. Youths trained in Fast Day observance will rarely, if ever, be breakers of the Word of Wisdom, and the dangers of their falling from the pathway of purity will be much less than it would be without such training. Control over the lesser appetites is prophetic of control over the stronger impulses. Fast Day Observance Develops Heroism. Heroism is one of the highest sources of joy. Heroes are made by resistance as well _as by advancement. It often takes more courage to stand still than to go on; more strength to wait, than to work, and more fidelity to refrain than to act. The development of heroism in one line helps the development in aff lines. The joy of Fast Day observance depends on the attitude of the observer. If the observance is a matter of mere compliance with regulation the results so far as the individual is concerned will be limited to the physical and social benefits. But if the attitude is one of heroism the results include the enjoyment of the observance and the training in self-discipline. To the one possessed of heroism, duty, be it ever so difficult, becomes pleasure, and this is especially so in youth. Dereliction in Fast Day observance generally has a background of self-humoring' which encourages along that fatal line of least resistance where ease absorbs our energy, and ends in the imbecility of the will. The Social Side of Fast Day Observance. Society is, that men may help one another. Fast Day observance is never more than half complete unless it goes over into giving; it requires a Golden Rule giving; a giving that we would not object to having put in print; a giving that would not shock us if we saw it in our dreams. Regardless of religion the custom of fasting that others may be fed appeals to the call of the better human self. The sharing sentiment marks the man; its stones is a characteristic of the animal. There is no greatness in the land of Greed. Small souls only seek refuge there. The Spiritual Side of Fast Day Observance. We pray, "Lord, bless the poor and needy." To the Latter-day Saints, Fast Day observance is linked with their weekly covenants with the Lord. The official prayers of the Sacrament ordinance make the spiritual obligations plain. How can we be willing to "keep his commandments" and be unwilling to observe the Fast Day? How can we witness that we "remember him" if we forget the Lord's poor? One's religion may be measured by the standard found in fames 1:27. The Lord has provided through Fast Day observance that all may visit the needy by their gifts. The Fast offering is a most welcome visitor and it goes on its errand as a gift from God because it passes through "the Lord's storehouse." The Fast Offering observer is acting out the closing part of the prayer: 'Thine is the honor, the power, and the glory." "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord," and if the giving is the result of the love of God and a love of one's fellowmen the act is an obedience to the two great commandments. GUIDE LESSONS 201 (See Mark 12:30-31.) The Fast Day giver is more than an "Abou Ben Adhem." One's giving, to be of spiritual value, must be of a type that will carry over onto the "books" where Divine credit is given. A credit of which one would not be ashamed as a candidate for salvation and exaltation. See Rev. 20:12. To the joys of self-mastery, heroism and philanthropy may be added the joy of knowing oneself to be in harmony with the Lord's plan, a happiness that comes only through acquiescence to his will, a gladsome heeding of his counsels and a willing obedience to his commands. The following instructions of President Joseph F. Smith on Fast Day observance are deserving of the most careful consideration: "Tt is, therefore, incumbent upon every Latter-day Saint to give to his bishop, on Fast Day, the food that he or his family would consume for the day, that it may be given to the poor for their benefit and blessing; or, in lieu of the food, that its equivalent amount, or if the person is wealthy a liberal donation in money be so reserved and dedicated to the poor. "Now, while the law requires the Saints in all the world to fast from 'even to even' and to abstain both from food and drink, it can easily be seen from the scriptures and especially from the words of Jesus, that it is more important to obtain the true spirit of love for God and man, 'purity of heart and simplicity of intention,' than it is 'to carry out the cold letter of the law. The Lord has instituted the fast on a reasonable and intelligent basis, and none of his works are vain or unwise. His law is perfect in this as in other things. Hence, those who can are required to comply thereto; it is a duty from which they cannot escape; but let it be remembered that the observance of the Fast Day by abstaining twenty-four hours from food and drink is not an absolute rule, it is no iron-clad law to us, but it is left with the people as a matter of conscience, to exercise wisdom and discretion. Many are subject to weakness, others are delicate in health, anid others have nursing babies; of stich is was not required to fast; neither should parents compel their little children to fast. I have known children to cry for something to eat on Fast Day. In such cases, going without food will do them no good. Instead, they dread the day to come, and in place of hailing it, dislike it; while the compulsion engenders a spirit of rebellion in them, rather than a love for the Lord, and their fellows. Better to teach them the principle, and let them observe it when they are old enough to choose intelligently, than to so compel them. "But those should fast who can, and all classes among us should be taught to save the meals which they would eat, or their 202 equivalent, for the poor. None are exempt from, this; it is required of the Saints, old and young, in every part of the Church. It is no excuse that in some places there are no poor. In such cases the Fast donation should' be forwarded to the proper authorities for transmission to such stakes of Zion as may stand in need. "So shall we gain favor in the sight of God, and learn the acceptable fast before him."—Gospel Doctrine, pp. 306-7. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is the ultimate aim of all gospel requirements? 2. Discuss the statement, "The consciousness of self-mastery is a joy supreme.". In what way did the Savior teach the value of self-discipline? How does Fast Day observance develop self-discipline? 5. How may Fast Day observance be made tu deverop heroism? 6. Discuss heroism as an essential part of the plan of salvation.; 7. What is "Golden Rule giving"? Illustrate. 8. How will Fast Day observance insure in favor of temperance and chastity? 9. Give scriptural proof that there are at least three books out of which we shall be judged. ~ 10. Compare Rev. 20:12, with Doc. & Cov. 1:10. 11. Discuss the propriety of the mother's planning for some Fast Day conversation in the homes on Fast Day eve. 12. Discuss the instruction of President Smith on Fast Day observance. (a) Their definiteness. (b) Their consistency. 13. Give four definite reasons for Fast Day observances.. | LESSON II WORK AND BUSINESS (Second Week in June} — LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) WILLIAM CuLten' Bryant (1794-1878) 5 The first American writer of artistic prose was Washington Irving, but the first great American poet was William Cullen Bryant. The latter, though born ten years later (1794), began to write at the same time. Indeed, he was only a child of twelve -when his "Embargo" was published. And his immortal "Thanatopsis" followed Irving's first great success the Knickerbocker History, within three years. Another parallel between these first two great American men of letters is the fact that both were destined for the law,—Bryant being admitted to the bar and practicing for a few years. But the inner urge of art - with both men was stronger than training. Bryant's father, Dr. Peter Bryant, a physician and state legislator, was too broad and too wise to try to restrict his son's natural bent. He had had him christened after a great medical authority, in hopes of a third generation of doctors, for the grandfather, too, was practitioner as well as magistrate. Great and great-great grandfather Bryant had been Plymouth magistrates, but William Cullen Bryant, descendant of John Alden, born in Cummingdon, Massachusetts, was to be no village magistrate, nor physician, nor lawyer, but in toth poetry and journalism he was to make his "One of the few immortal names That were not born to die." The young lawyer pays no compliment to his clients or his profession when he flees to the woods, and says to the stream (Green River): — GUIDE LESSONS 203 204 "But I wish that fate had left me free To wander these quiet haunts with thee." * * * "Though forced to drudge for the dregs of men, And scrawl strange words with barbarous pen, And mingle among the jostling crowd, Where the sons of strife are subtle and loud." The ardent love of nature was the key to Bryant's greatness. His verse is always charming and vivid and true in detail. Note what a gallery of definite pictures in A Winter Scene, each bathed in the Bryant atmosphere of calm, expansive, solemn grandeur: "Still there was beauty in my walks; the brook Bordered with sparkling frost work, was as gay As with its fringe of summer flowers. Afar, The village with its spires, the path of streams And dim receding valleys, hid before By interposing trees, lay visible Through the bare grove." * ok x "And all was white. The pure keen air abroad, Albeit breathed no scent of herb, nor heard Love-call of bird nor merry hum of bee, Was not the air of death. Bright mosses crept Over the spotted trunks, and the close buds, That lay along the boughs, instinct with life, Patient, and waiting the soft breath of Spring, Feared not the piercing spirit of the North. The snow bird twittered on the beechen bough, And neath the hemlock, whose thick branches bent Beneath the bright, cold burden, and kept dry A circle on the earth, of withered leaves, The partridge found a shelter. Through the snow The rabbit sprang away. The lighter track Of fox, the racoon's broad path, were there, Crossing each other. From his hollow tree The squirrel was abroad, gathering the nuts Just fallen, that asked the winter cold and sway Of winter blast to shake them from their hold." You catch the thrill of the familiar summer scene from the accurate observation and musical swing in Green River: "And pure its waters—its shallows are bright With colored pebbles and sparkles of light, And clear the depths where its eddies play— And dimples deepen and whirl away, And the plane-tree's speckled arms o'er shoot The swifter current that mines its root." Bryant stands in worshipful awe of God's creation. Such reverence is his religion. His noblest lines are born of his broad, comprehensive appreciation of the great out-doors. Note the grand sweep and lofty thought and diction of the dozens of nature poems like A Forest Hymn.: GUIDE LESSONS 205 "The groves were God's first temples, ere man learned To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave, And spread the roof above them—ere he framed The lofty vault, to gather and roll back The sound of anthems; in the darkling wood, Amid the cool and silence, he knelt down, And offered to the Mightiest solemn thanks And supplication." Bryant's life and character and literary style and habit of thinking is one with his poetry. His pure and lofty thought naturally seeks the loftiest material and expression.. His open, clear, noble, austere life finds embodiment and expression in nature's grandest forms. Perhaps it was the darker Puritanic severities, the inevitable retribution of whipping post, birchen rod. And pulpit warnings that colored much of this author's work a solemn gray. Yet his sombre moods are not depressing, never sordid. Even in death there is hope, beauty, justice and grandeur. The usual bright and beloved scene often becomes a playground for serious thoughts, even of death. When only eighteen, while picking his way through primeval forests about Cummingdon, where gigantic trunks of fallen trees and layers of dead leaves had accumulated for ages, he composed his Thanatopsis. In one broad and comprehensive view the young author in this first great American poem presents the destinies of the human race on earth—like the trees of his forest—the perpetual coming and going of generation after generation, in order and beauty and heavenly mercy, each eventually finding a resting place on the bosom of the kind earth. 'Aspects of death occur frequently in his poetry throughout his whole life, but nearly always are they inspired by some phenomenon of nature. The Hymn to Death, The Burial Place, Blessed are they that Mourn, No Man Knoweth his Sepulchre, The Old Man's Funeral, and many others are all more majestic than they are solemn expressions of such consolation as closes his Mutation: "Weep not that the world; changes—did it keep A stable, chiangeless state, 'twere cause indeed to weep." Such lines as these, and those that follow from Hymw to Death, are largely respons'ble for the familiar term of "cold" applied to Bryant's work. Speaking to death: "Vet while the spell Is on my spirit, and I talk with thee In sight of all thy trophies, face to face, Meet is it that my voice should utter forth Thy nobler triumphs; I will teach the world To thank thee." * * * "Thou dost avenge, 206 In thy good time, the wrongs of those who know No other friend. Nor dost interpose Only to lay the sufferer asleep." Whenever Bryant touches his own personal associations, it is in tender—not "cold'—emotion. In the "Hymn" last quoted, note the controlled, smothered feeling in the exclamation about his father: "For he is in his grave who taught my youth The art of verse, and in the bud of life Offered me to the Muses. Oh, cut off Untimely! When they reason in its strength, Ripened by years of toil and studious search, And watch of Nature's silent lessons, taught Thy hand to practice best the lenient art To which thou gavest thy laborous days, And last, thy life." Though many people were less often immortalized in verse than the 'natural objects of his environment, yet true appreciation marks every reference of this author to those whom he loved. His wife he mentions often; her spirit stands beside him in his contemplation of A Winter Piece. Again in another poem Fairest of the Rural Maids, he writes: * * * "Birth was in the forest shades; And all the beauty of the place Is in thy heart and in thy face." Tenderly, too, is she made the moving force in The Future Life. (1837) The Sleep That Is, (1855), and October 1866. The death of his sister occasioned the heautiful tribute in The Death of the Flowers, that begins with the familiar lines: "The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year, Of wailing winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere." and ending: "In the cold moist earth we laid her when the foresr cast the leaf, And we wept that one so lovely should have a life so brief: Yet not unmeet it was that one, like that young friend of ours, So gentle and so beautiful, should perish with the flowers." Besides Bryant's poems of nature and death— which include the tributes to relatives, he wrote many—generally less perfect—- on Indian themes, imaginative historical treatises, such as The Ages (1821)—a picturesque summary of the history of mankind, written for and read before the Harvard College Phi Beta Kappa—a society that only extended such honors to those who had already achieved distinction. The poem is still the best poem of its kind to be given before a college society in this country or England. Translations from the Spanish and German are many and faithful; GUIDE LESSONS 207 his translation of Homer is perhaps as good as any in the language. The political poems that began with the boyish effort, The Embargo—a satire after the fashion of Pope, like several others of his youth—were again resumed after his editorial career began. The publication of his first volume of verse (1821) and the prose and poetic satires previous had made him sought by papers and magazines. He began as a full-fledged journalist in 1825. He moved to New York, and became assistant editor on a short lived magazine. Bryant then became one of the editors of the New York 'Evening Post, and, in 1828, its chief editor. His own contribution of verse and prose, and the high standard of all its columns was largely responsible for keeping all American journalism stronger and cleaner than the vulgar trend of the times would otherwise have made it. Bryant's eloquent prose was sought on all kinds of public occasions: at celebrations, dedications, political or social meetings his poetic, imaginative genius distinguished and popularized his speeches. No man of distinction in America had been so well known. His ponderous head, long gray hair and beard, alert, sharp eyes, and springing gait—buoyant almost to the last— gained instant recognition and reverence. -Fifty years he had served his country in building her greatest newspaper and her habits of thought; seventy years a poet, though he wrote less per year than any other great poet, he voiced more of his country's ideals and beauties. His career covered, if not all, at least the best years of nearly all our great American writers and many of those of England: Scott, Byron, Tennyson, Shelley, Arnold, Wadsworth, Browning, Irving, Poe, Whittier, Longfellow, Lowell, Emerson, Holmes, Whitman, Bret Harte, and others. A great figure in a great society of literary lights! America's first great poet—the Wadsworth of America, and—not even Lowell excepted '—the poet most in public life. SUGGESTIONS FOR STUDY 1. Do you consider Bryant's fairyland flights successful in such poems as The Litile People of the Snow? 2. Bryant's one abiding idea, about nature is that she is a profound influence on the human spirit; quote lines that show its chastening or soothing or encouraging or ennobling effect. 3. Wherein is Robert of Lincoln rather fetching in its playfulness, and also an exception to the author's general failure in dramatic portrayal? 4. What was Bryant's influence in American journalism? 5. What were his views and feelings on death? On ethics? LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) MARRIAGE AND ITS ADJUSTMENTS The early period of marriage is one of adjustment and readjustment in habits, ideals and standards of life. To a degree at least, it is a sort of making over the old ways of living in compliance with the demands of this new and intimate relationship. It is a reconstruction which makes it possible for two persons who are different by nature and by nurture to live together harmoniously, sympathetically, and successfully. This is no simple matter. Professor Tuft says, "In view of all these differences in nature, occupation and social standards, it may be said that however well husband and wife may love each other, few understand each other completely. Perhaps most men do not understand women at all."" Dewey and Tuft: Ethics, p. 588. PHYSICAL DIFFERENCES Men and women are different both physically and mentally. Men's bodies are larger and stronger than are those of women. They can lift and handle heavier objects. They are endowed by nature with strength to fight in defense of home and for the protection of children and the weaker sex. Women, on the other hand, although they do not possess muscular strength, have, in certain respects, greater endurance. For example, in administering continuous aid to children and dependent persons women are able to continue many thours without rest while men are apt to yield to sleep and fatigue. Women can also endure extreme pain for long periods of time which is, of course, incident to child bearing. God has, thus, endowed man and woman each with bodily powers essential to the carrying out of the divine purpose of their creation. MENTAL DIFFERENCES The mental differences between men and women are less obvious. The old notion that men have greater mental powers than women is no longer accepted by psychologists. In recent years many women have undertaken scholastic pursuits and have made attainments in lines which call for great mental ability. But notwithstanding this mental equality which the science of human nature now recognizes, there are fundamental differences in the way men and women react to the various problems and 'GUIDE LESSONS 209 conditions of life. This may be due only in part to their inherited nature and largely to the difference in training and customs to which each has been subjected. In dealing with the great human relations men are less emotional and impulsive than women. Men frequently remain quiet and thoughtful when women weep and in words and actions make outward demonstration of their inner disturbances. These differences show themselves in the presence of great crises occasioning extreme joy or sorrow. These physical and mental differences make for attractions, and are thus a condition of pleasant association between men and'women. They were created by God and nothing should be done in our modern social life to weaken them. G. S. Hall writes: 'What our schools and other institutions should do is not to obliterate these differences but to make boys more manly and girls more womanly. We should respect the law of sexual differences and not forget that motherhood is a very different thing from fatherhood. Neither sex should copy or set patterns to the other, but all parts should be played: harmoniously and clearly in the great sex symphony." G. S. Hall: Youth, p. 284. But although these differences are the very condition of attraction between man and woman, they are also causes of misunderstanding and occasional friction. We need, therefore, an adjustment which insures harmony and cooperation and at the same time gives place to thought differences which make for sex attraction and which are essential as supplements to the life of man and woman. Man is incomplete without woman and so also is woman without man. We admire initiative and strength in man, but we know how quickly it may bceome rough and hard unless it is in some way supplemented by the sentiments and emotions of woman. <A woman on the other hand may become extremely sentimental and narrow unless checked by the colder and more rational attitude of man. This situation is well expressed in the Sanskrit story where Man confesses to the Creator of Woman: "I cannot: live either with her or without her." QUESTIONS 'I. Show that the early period of married life is essentially a period of adjustment. 2. Show that from the point of recons'ructing habits, ideals, and standards, marriage should not be too long postponed. 3. What does Professor Tufts say concerning men and women understanding one another? Can you justify his position?. 210 4. In what respect does man's physical strength differ from that of woman? 5. |Give examples to show that women uke certain conditions have greater endurance than men. 6. Give reasons to show the fallacy of the old notion that. Men have stronger minds than women. 7. How would you answer the following argument? There are more men who become great architects, writers, preachers, lawyers, politicians and financiers than there are women, therefore, men must be brighter than wome2. 8. What are the mental differences between men and women? Do these differences tend to show that their mission in this world is essentially different? 9. In view of these differences what does G. S. Hall say about the sort of education that should be given to boys and girls respectively? 10. Show the full significance of the statement that. Man is incomplete without woman and woman is incomplete without man. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE CURFEW LAW 1. Twelfth "Article of Faith." 2. All nature is governed by law and obeys the law by which it is governed. Man alone disregards law, and the results of this disobedience bring disaster. 3. Disregard for minor laws prevalent. 4. Curfew law. A. This law makes is unlawful for persons eighteen or under to be on the highways. Or at public places of amusement after nine, unless accompanied by parent or guardian. B. The purpose of the law is to safeguard the morals | of the juveniles. Juveniles yield more readily to evil influences than do adults. Youths who go astray very commonly begin their waywardness before the age of eighteen. C. Evil influences of a social nature are much more prevalent by night than by day. D. Law enforcement officers hold that most of their trouble with juveniles would be at an end, and ultimately crime generally would be greatly reduced if law was more strictly observed. E. Responsibility of enforcement of this law rests mainly with the parents. F. Results of disobedience to this law. Some Firsts in Woman's Progress The first representative body of women ever convened was the "