The Dream Wife Frank Steele
======================================================================

Dream Wife. Frank Steele. James Wilson, twenty-five and unmarried, suddenly awoke with queer feelings. He looked about his bedroom as if searching for something. He discovered nothing but the fixtures of the chamber somberly standing in their places, black and shapeless, in the semi-darkness. The moonlight, streaming in through the half-open window, cast a soft, grayish light about the place, falling squarely on the face of the clock. James looked up at the old timepiece which had been solemnly doing duty for four or more generations. The hands stood at midnight. He had been abed only an hour. He sat upright, rubbed his eyes and again peered around the room. He had dreamed a dream, a most extraordinary dream — one which struck a peculiarly sensitive chord in his make-up. The particulars of his strange nocturnal experience raced through his mind as he sat upright in his bed. James Wilson believed in dreams. He was a spiritually-minded young man, sincere, honest and God-fearing. He sang in the Methodist choir and was an active member of the Sunday school Bible class. He believed also in visions, in a personal God, and in the doctrine of a premortal existence of the spirit of man. The last doctrine held a particular charm for him. James found inexplicable joy in pondering over this new revelation, reasonable and sublime, that had come into his soul. All this was strange doctrine in Bridgeport. And because James Wilson tenaciously held to these views, and even stoutly advocated them in the very face of a furious and indignant pastor, public sentiment toward the young theological student began to grow cold. Both in church and business circles life-long friends passed him by without speaking. It had been whispered about that James had been attending "Mormon" meetings, that "Mormon" tracts had been seen in his pockets, and that he had been discovered openly conversing with two ministers of that despised sect. This gossip James did not deny. On the contrary, he confirmed it. With courage, he frankly told them that he was investigating "Mormonism," believing that God would lead him to the truth wherever it was to be found. And so, at twelve o'clock of a Tuesday in May, James was sitting upright in his bed with a puzzled look in his eyes and a mind grappling with a problem never before seriously entertained. 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. I said in the beginning that James was twenty-five and unmarried. Marriage had never seriously concerned him. He had been really popular in a social way, having kept company with a number of very excellent young ladies of the city. These associations were purely of a friendly nature, his motives being absolutely foreign to that of matrimony. But matrimony had suddenly become the one absorbing thought in his mind. He was thinking about this engaging subject as he sat up in bed, thinking of it because he had dreamed of it. Every detail of the astonishing drama was clearly defined before him. He saw the kind, white-robed messenger come into his room. He felt again his hand touch his shoulder. He heard his voice and recalled the bewildering command: "Go to Liverpool and find your wife. Look!" Ah, the picture of loveliness that greeted him! Groves, lawns, flowers, fountains, streams of silvery water and birds and beasts living in perfect peace. In the midst of all, he saw himself and beside him on a rustic bench sat a maiden, a vision of beauty and grace. He still saw in that radiant nobility of her chaste features a face he could never forget. "Go to Liverpool and find your wife," rang in his ears. It was still ringing with persistency when he arose in the morning. At breakfast he startled his mother by exclaiming: "Mother, I'm going to Liverpool this morning." "Liverpool? Why James, what business calls you to Liverpool?" "Mother, I'm going to Liverpool to find my wife." "Your— wife!" "Yes, mother, my wife, the girl I may have loved in the spirit world. I saw her last night, mother, in a dream." "Ah James, what utter nonsense. I do wish you'd cease reading that devilish 'Mormonism.' It will drive you crazy. Your wife! The spirit world! Silly!" "No, mother," replied her son, "'Mormonism' teaches many beautiful doctrines, one of which is a belief in divinely-given dreams and visions. Your Bible teaches it but you have forsaken the simple truths of the gospel. I am going to Liverpool, mother, and there I shall find my wife." And so James went to Liverpool. It was a clear, pleasant day. The sight of the country-side, green and fragrant in its morning freshness, filled him with the joy of living. How deliciously sweet was the air, how rejuvenatingly it filled his lungs as the train whirled on toward the distant city. James was perfectly alive to the pleasures of the journey, although his strange mission stood out paramount in his mind. But, like Jacob of THE DREAM WIFE. 647 old who also went in quest of a wife, James faltered not in his purpose. At Middleboro a young sailor boarded the train. He sat in the same compartment as James, and the two young men soon struck up a conversation. The seafarer told a sad, sad story. He was going to Liverpool for the first time in fifteen years. His widowed mother and an only sister resided there. He had never written them for ten years. He confessed to having lived a wild, riotous life, but that on the streets of London, one Sunday afternoon, his heart had been touched by the preaching of two very earnest young ministers. "I remained in London on sick leave for three months," he continued, "and heard these men preach. When I went again to sea I went back to the old ship a new man. I had been converted and had joined the Church." He paused, and James leaned a little closer toward him. "And now I'm going back — back to my dear, old, lonely mother and sister. O, how ungrateful and wicked I have been! But, my friend, I'm going back clean. And I thank God for that." James was strangely affected by Fred Galbraith's story. He felt drawn to the young Christian sailor by some intangible influence which he could not explain. And when they arrived at Liverpool, he did not hesitate in accepting Fred's invitation to accompany him home. He had no other place to go. He was in Liverpool and somewhere in that vast mass of humanity was his future wife. How he was to find her he knew not. The sailor's eyes became moist as the two men walked down the familiar street, passing spots made lasting in his memory by daily contact in youth. His pace quickened as he caught sight of the old home — the little thatched cottage where he had been born, where he had spent the happy days of childhood — yes, and where he had kissed his sobbing mother goodbye fifteen years ago. James walked in silence, instinctively reading the chain of thoughts passing through the sailor's mind. The greeting was a joyous one. Both mother and son wept tears of joy. And then when Margaret came home for lunch, completing the family circle, the Galbraith home felt a spirit of happiness unknown for years. Fred's mother and sister both gave James a hearty welcome and he soon felt perfectly at ease in the Galbraith home. A peculiar light, an indication of recognition, came into James' eye when he met Margaret. She was a dark-haired girl of about twenty summers, sociable, pleasant and fascinating. Her sweet 648 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. smile, soft brown eyes, and delicately-cut mouth — where had he seen them before? Like a flash the answer came. His dream! Could it be true, Margaret Galbraith, his wife-to-be? He tried hard to restrain himself but could not. "Miss Galbraith, I have seen you before. I knew you in the spirit world. God gave you to me for my wife in this world. I saw you again last night in a dream, and I came to Liverpool to find you." A look, half of fright and astonishment, came into the girl's eyes. A little scream escaped her lips. She stepped back toward her mother, eyeing James Wilson the while. The mother and son looked on in bewilderment. "Why, man, you're mad," Margaret Galbraith cried. "I am not mad, Miss Galbraith, I know all this seems outrageous to you. But it is true — all of it. Miss Margaret, you are to be my wife. To show my sincerity I shall leave my savings, a hundred pounds in notes, with you. A year from this date if you decide to become my wife, and your mother is willing, you may write me to that effect and I will come to you at once. If your answer is to the contrary, simply return the money." That night a party of four, radiantly happy, attended the Princess theatre. One of the party, James Wilson, a few hours later boarded the midnight express for London, a hundred pounds less in his pocket but with a heart throbbing with new-discovered joy. A year passed, bringing few changes in the small manufacturing city of Bridgeport. A number of events of importance, however, are worthy of record. The King and Queen had opened the new Infirmary; the textile workers had won quite a notable victory after a three-weeks' strike; Lord Gobbleland had bought a new estate; Jim Leatherbarrow's wife, Martha, had committed suicide; and James Wilson, electrical engineer at the Bridgeport and Huxley Light and Tramway company's plant, had joined the "Mormons." It was May again, just a year since James had taken his peculiar mission to Liverpool. On the day of the expiration of the year James came home earlier than usual. He was grave, taciturn, and looked the very picture of unhappiness. His mother noticed it and instantly asked the cause. When James revealed the cause, the pan she was scouring fell to the floor. "So it has come to this at last, has it?" she stormed, "I told you not to join them devilish 'Mormons,' — the scum of the earth. I knew you'd lose your job. No one wants a 'Mormon' around. Go— go with the 'Mormons' — go to your dirty, slick-tongued elders." THE DREAM WIFE. 649 James quietly sat down. He made no reply, but his face showed that the attack from his mother had hurt. He slowly opened a letter, which she had given him at his entrance. It bore a Liverpool date stamp. As he opened it, a hundred pounds in Bank of England notes fell out. A cold clammy chill crept over him as he crumpled them into his pocket. His head whirled, his eyes swam. So it had been all a myth. He had been deceived. His dream was only a delusion. He guessed the old vicar was right after all. He was about to cast the envelope into the grate, but something restrained him. He smoothed it out and looked inside. There was a letter. Feverishly withdrawing it, James read: Liverpool, May 12. My dear Mr. Wilson: — Enclosed you will find your money, one hundred pounds. I should never have accepted it had you not been insistent. I trust that it will reach you safely. I have very carefully considered your most extraordinary proposal. But I cannot accept you as you are. In doing so, I feel somehow that I am forfeiting much of my happiness. I am convinced, Mr. Wilson, that your proposal was most honorable. But there is one great obstacle, which makes marriage with you impossible. That is the only thing that stands in the way. It is a matter of religion. I cannot marry outside of my Church. That is against my principles. I am very sorry — just how sorry I cannot tell you — but, Mr. Wilson, it can never be. I thank you and wish you well. Sincerely your friend, (Signed) Margaret Galbraith. There was a postscript: P. S. — I might add that I should be delighted to have you read something of our religion. My brother is sending you some tracts under separate cover. You know mother and I were baptized six months ago, and we are supremely happy. My brother, as you know, joined the Church in London. Mr. Wilson, we are what the world calls— "Mormons." But do not be foolish like most people who condemn us before they investigate our principles. Read and judge for yourself. We all leave tomorrow by the S. S. Campania, for Zion. Goodbye again. Mother and Fred send love. M. G. Tomorrow! S. S. Campania! James looked at his watch. Leaving his unhappy parents pelting him with a broadside of unbecoming language, he rushed down to the telegraph office, hastily 650 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. dispatched a message, then hastened back home to settle accounts with his militant kinsfolk. ******** When the S. S. Campania steamed proudly out of Liverpool harbor for New York, the next day, James Wilson was one of the passengers. And that night on the deck, with a million stars brilliantly aglow in the heavens, and a great white moon climbing out of the bosom of the waves, a young man and woman, their faces alight with ecstasy, found a cozy, sequestered nook furnishing them with a view of the beautiful picture. It was James Wilson and Margaret Galbraith. And there, amid the splendor of a summer night at sea, in the presence of the God who made the mighty waters and called them "good," the pledge of love was given, sealed with a kiss of pure devotion that made the angels sing. Pastoral Lullaby. Linda Kartchner. In the top of the tall old aspen tree The wind is lulling the birds to sleep, A slumbering song to the birdies three It sings, and the birdies softly cheep. The fond mother bird, in the lull of the breeze, To her wee ones three so softly sings, And now the wind rocks them, and mother bird sees Her babies are slumbering under her wings. The lambs are dozing in clover near by, And mother sheep with them in slumber are drawn, To the land of Nod the lambkins hie, And mother sheep, too, slides dreamily on. On the sea of slumber, by fairies steered, Sail on, my baby, to sleep, just so; To the realm of Nod, by fairies endeared, To the land where the birdies and lambkins go. The