MISCELLANEOUS TEXT
======================================================================


=== BEFORE FIRST ARTICLE ===

SEN STUDIO, 249 Main Street, Salt Lake City. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Salt Lake City. BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO., Billiard Tables, 55-59 W. South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. BURIAL CLOTHES, 67 E. South Temple Street. CONSOLIDATED MUSIC CO., Salt Lake City. CULLEN ICE & BEVERAGE CO., Salt Lake. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 61-3-5 Main Street, Salt Lake City. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City. S. S. DICKINSON & CO., 680 E. Second South, Salt Lake City. EARDLEY BROS. CO., "Everything for Electricity," Salt Lake City. GLOBE OPTICAL CO., 11 East Second South, Salt Lake City. KEELEY'S ICE CREAM, Salt Lake City. LAMBOURNE, ERNEST, Florist, 67 S. Main St., Salt Lake City. McCONAHAY, "The Jeweler," 64 Main Street. MODEL KNITTING WORKS, 657 Iverson Street, Salt Lake City. ROYAL BAKING CO., Salt Lake City. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. OUR GOD AND FRIEND. Thanksgiving hymn for November, 1919, by L. Lula Greene Richards. Father, thou eternal one! For the wonders thou hast done, For thy kind paternal care, For thy mercies rich and rare, ? Thanks and worship we extend Unto thee, our God and Friend. While through all the world around Strife and bitterness abound, Well hast thou established here People who, with loving fear In thy sacred

=== AFTER LAST ARTICLE ===

harden their hearts, for they were led by many priests and false prophets to build up many churches and to do all manner of iniquity. And they did smite upon the people of Jesus; but the people of Jesus did not smite again, and thus they did dwindle in unbelief and wickedness from year to year, even until two hundred and thirty years had passed away." Now here are miracles of a very unusual sort, for they had three among them whom they could not put to death, three who had power to minister unto them in sickness and in dire distress of any sort. Nothing could so testify to the wickedness of these people as the fact that they sought to kill these immortal beings who wrought nothing except what was for their good and their salvation here and in the great eternity before them. The wickedness of these people has seldom been paralleled, and only surpassed in the case of the Jews who deliberately chose to crucify the Christ after all the mighty works he had wrought among them. The lesson forces itself upon us, as we recite the horrors to which these Nephites were subjected, that the only effect virtue has upon the wicked is to incense them. There was nothing in the miracles wrought through Moses that brought salvation to the Egyptians: those miracles were wrought first for the children of Israel and, secondly, for the good of all those who believe in every generation, but they were the condemnation of the Egyptians. So with the Nephites, time and time again, they sought to put to death these servants of the living God, these special witnesses of Christ. Surely they openly defied God, and showed that they loved darkness rather than light. But these holy men survived, and have survived to the blessing of mankind in all ages since the Christian Era. When the story of their experiences are brought together, what a wonder tale it will be. Let your mind run over all the GUIDE LESSONS. 673 marvelous events of history since the destruction of the last Nephite, and think what the Three Nephites have witnessed. No one can possibly conceive the wealth of their knowledge and understanding. We once heard a member of the council of Twelve say that the three Nephites have been witnesses of all the changing scenes of earth, and that they will some day correct history where it is wrong and be our ready reference on matters of long ago. John the beloved, and the three Nephites have gone on with their work. It is not possible that we should understand its full significance. More than one testimony from missionaries is extant testifying to the fact that they have been assisted in their work by one who has appeared mysteriously and as mysteriously disappeared. During the present war the soldiers were constantly testifying of the presence of persons to them supernatural, walking among the dead and the dying. So persistent was this testimony that magazines in Europe and America published the testimonies of these soldiers. We do not intimate that these persons saw any of the three Nephites for we do not know; it would be more than strange if the Nephites had not watched that terrible conflict and made record of it in a way that will some day redound to the future benefit of the world. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Classify the miracles of the Book of Mormon. 2. Give an example under each head. Tell something of the miracles performed during Christ's ministry among the Nephites. 3. Give an account of the miracle that heralded the birth of Christ. 4. Give an account of the miracle wrought at his crucifixion. 5. Discuss the statement: Miracles are wrought to the condemnation of some. Tell why? 6. Discuss the statement: Miracles are wrought to the eternal salvation of others. Tell why? 7. Can you find examples of miracles in these latter days which have encouraged people? 8. Tell some of the blessings that have come and may come to this earth because the three Nephites have tarried. Note. ? Concerning the answers to questions in the last theology lesson about the tabernacle organ, students may purchase for 25c a beautifully illustrated booklet about the organ from the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City. 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December. LESSON III Genealogy. Third Week in December. ORIENTAL PAGAN SURNAMES. (Surname Book, chapters 26, 27.) In very recent times we have discovered that the oriental Pagans have centuries ago developed and maintained a very comprehensive system of surnaming their families and tribes. The Chinese, Japanese, Hindus and Turks are all descended from Japheth and themselves declare this, counting back in a straight line, many of them, to father Noah through Japheth. Unlike the European nations they did not acquire their surnames by chance or circumstance but they arbitrarily selected surnames, adding thereto the name of the district in which they resided. Extremely cautious were these Orientals in the choosing of a family genealogist, family recorder, or priest. If he failed through carelessness or forgetfulness to keep close record of the branches of the family his life was forfeit. The Turks must not be confounded with Arabs, for the Arabians are descended from Shem and Abraham, through Ishmael, while the Turkish race comes from Japheth. The Orientals have always been great believers in temple building and temple worship, priesthood has been inherited as with the Hebrews. The temple rituals in these various Pagan countries have differed more in details than in the common belief in the worship of idols and the superstitions which always grow out of such worship. Surnaming of the various peoples therefore has taken on a priestly character and much of their worship depends upon the proved inheritance of the priestly lines. So embedded in Chinese and Japanese religious life is the race inheritance that ancestor worship has become a part of the GUIDE LESSONS. 675 Chinese and Japanese religions. Who can say that this is not a corrupted form of salvation for the dead? QUESTIONS. 1. What customs were followed by the Chinese in surnaming themselves in the early ages? (See chapter 26, Surname Book.) 2. Who were the Pagan orientals descended from? 3. What is the difference between the Arabs and the Turks? 4. What can you say of the Mohammedan religion? 5. What is the meaning of Pagan? 6. Why did the Orientals build temples? Note. ? We call the attention of our students to the articles appearing in this and following Magazines, on Orientals' temples, and their habits and customs. LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in December. EFFICIENT HOUSEHOLD PURCHASING Rose H. Widtsoe. Every large business has learned through much trouble and considerable loss that the purchasing of its supplies and equipment must be attended to by one who understands the business of buying. A purchasing agent has come to be a necessary part of a business organization. These men and women are trained to know values, are informed on market conditions and are able to buy to the best advantage for their particular firms. Such agents save for their firms thousands of dollars which otherwise might have been wasted in misguided or poorly planned purchasing. As was stated in the previous lesson, women spend nine-tenths of the money earned. If a specially trained purchasing agent is necessary to the success of a business enterprise, how much more necessary a well-trained purchasing agent is for the home. A purchasing agent aims to save money for his firm, but such an agent working for the interests of a home has a much bigger object in mind. She aims not especially to save money but to spend it economically. Since "economy no more means saving money than it means spending money" our household purchasing agent prepares herself to know values, to acquaint herself with the best markets and to plan ahead for her purchasing. 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The first step in planning the use to be made of the family income is the making of the budget. Definite amounts of the income must be set aside for food, shelter, clothing, operating expenses, incidental expenses, savings, and higher life. These amounts must be known not only for the week or the month but for the whole year. It requires an outlook for the whole year; otherwise, a woman cannot plan purchases ahead, be systematic in her buying, and be enabled to take advantage of the many opportunities for saving which present themselves from season to season. With the increased cost in living the household purchasing agent must be alert. She must plan the expenditure of the income if it be small or moderate so as to furnish the necessaries in food, clothing and furnishings and still have some money left for the needs of her family in education and advancement. Never before in the history of the family has the responsibility of buying rested so heavily upon the woman in the home. She is today almost exclusively a consumer. The housewife of one and two generations ago was in many instances a producer. She made her own soap and candles, she spun, wove, cut and sewed all of her own clothing materials, she produced many of the food stuffs and she preserved and dried fruits and vegetables and meats for winter's use. It might seem on first consideration that by being able to purchase all these articles instead of having to make them that the modern woman is entirely relieved from all responsibility. This is not the case. Some of the time which was previously spent in preparing these things must now be spent in qualifying ourselves to know values. In letting go the work of her own hands while she personally chose and created determining the quality, purity and cleanliness of these articles and materials to be of the highest, she must now personally or in groups, assure herself of equal standards of quality, purity and cleanliness no matter where they are made. She must become trained to buy commercially made products. She must understand the various divisions of the family budget and be qualified to get the very best returns for the money spent. To become a trained consumer and conserver is therefore one of the most important requirements of a mother in the home today. It has been estimated by economists that women buy 96% of all drygoods used by the family; 87% of raw market products; 48.5% of hardware and house furnishings; 48% of drugs; 11.2% of men's clothing. The conclusion is that women alone buy 48.4% of all merchandise and help in selecting 23% more, thus buying practically 71% of all products used in the home. How necessary it is then, if we are to magnify our responsibility, to make a success of our business, to become equipped with knowl- GUIDE LESSONS. 677 edge concerning food, clothing, housing, furnishings, in order to choose well, to do the most for our families and to avoid pitfalls and fraud in commercially prepared materials. What happens in families where the mother is not trained for this great work? Her family will be deprived of necessaries and comforts that they might otherwise have enjoyed. It is estimated that billions of dollars are wasted annually by careless buying. The husband is compelled to increase his income with no corresponding saving and in many cases, although already overburdened, he must assume the burden of the family purchasing agent. The woman who is not trained to buy in the most efficient manner is frequently responsible for many of the evils in our modern selling methods. For example the abuse of the "charge account," the excessive delivery demands, the "return goods" habit, and the telephone habit, all tend to make the cost of doing business higher than necessary. Every housekeeper may become an efficient household purchasing agent by continuous trying, by experimenting and by study. A consideration of the following topics will be helpful. Efficient Buying. The first principle of efficient buying is to distinguish between price and value and to learn to make all purchases on a basis of value and not on price alone. For example, a lunch box at three dollars and seventy-five cents seems an exorbitant price. Yet the value under certain circumstances may be worth the price. A young growing child is sent to a school a long distance from home. She must leave home very early and consequently has little or no appetite for her breakfast. At noon she is extremely hungry. She goes to this lunch box, takes out a thermos bottle filled with warm soup. The sanitary tin box contained in the leather container is filled with wholesome sandwiches. The child eats this warm soup and sandwiches and feels good all over. All traces of nervousness disappear. She will perhaps carry this same lunch box for years. There is no question as to the value of such a lunch box. There are, however, circumstances when such a purchase would be an act of extravagance. We must measure the returns of our purchases and thus determine whether or not the value to us is worth the price. Prices may fluctuate because of economic conditions, but the value of an article can be fixed only in the consumer's mind. For instance, a bed consisting of good springs, good mattress, light weight, warm, easily laundered, or covered bed coverings and good quality, live feathers for pillows, would be to many people the principal considerations in placing a value on a bed. The bedstead would be a secondary 678 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. consideration. To other people, and to far too large a percentage, the appearance of a bedstead would be the chief consideration. Yet the comfort one gets out of a good, comfortable bed should be the chief consideration. The quality of an article whether it be food, clothing, or furnishings should be our next guide. To know quality for ourselves and not to have to depend upon the salesman is a necessary qualification for an efficient purchasing agent. This principle applied to our budget would mean first that we must know food values. We must know why it is a good thing not to spend too much of our food budget for meat or sweets or cream. Further we should know the various cuts of meat and their respective food values and the comparative cost. We should know the nutritive value of meats compared with other foods. We should know how to test the freshness of meat. We should know the various substitutes for meat with their comparative prices and know good recipes for cooking these and meat substitutes into palatable attractive dishes. The second division of the food budget, dairy products, is perhaps the most important consideration in the budget. The purchasing agent must know the function of milk and butter in human nutrition. She must know that there is no substitute for milk and butter, that there are supplementary foods that may be used in connection with milk and butter but not as substitutes. She should understand the reason for the government's adopting the slogan, "A quart of milk a day for each growing child." During the past two years the winter has found many families who have taken milk from their tables because the price is so high; yet these same families have not eliminated meat and other expensive foods from their diet. A quart of whole milk contains as much nourishment as a pound of beef steak; and further, milk contains a growth determinant which cannot be secured from any other sources except from the yolk of egg and to a very limited amount from the leafy vegetables. These principles determine the value of milk irrespective of price; and so on through the various divisions of our budget. We must know the value of foods, the return to the family needs and well being. Then an efficient purchasing agent should know the merits of various kinds of distribution methods, as parcel post, mail order, cooperative buying and public market. She should realize the importance of knowing city, state and national laws governing the standards of various articles such as food, clothing and equipment, and also the methods of handling raw and manufactured goods. She will search out the markets that are sanitary and well ordered, avoiding markets where food is exposed to flies and dust. She will learn the standard brands of canned GUIDE LESSONS. 679 goods and all package goods, the standard weaves of cotton, linen, and woolen materials and the points of judgment in determining household equipment. She will in fact learn the values of everything that comes into the house. The careful home purchasing agent will acquaint herself with legal weights and measures and will check up on these weights in her own kitchen. Every well equipped kitchen will contain a good pair of scales and daily use should be made of them. Another important qualification is to be able to know the various trade labels and the most economical sizes of cans and other containers. In fact to be a good purchasing agent the mother in the home must know her business. If she is to get the best returns for her money she must know values. To accomplish this she must study and profit by her own experience and the experience of others, and be constantly alert in her observations. QUESTIONS. What are the duties of a purchasing agent in a well-regulated business? What can you say of the home purchasing agent? What is the budget system? Describe your own methods of home purchasing. Define economy. What is the difference between economy and miserliness? Why is it important to train to become an efficient household purchasing agent? With what percentage of the world's income do women spend and with what results? Distinguish between the value and the price of an article. Why is it necessary for the household purchasing agent to know food values? What are the standard local weights and measures? What use should be made of scales in the home kitchen? Is there any choice of local markets in regard to quality of goods and methods of handling? What are the advantages of parcel-post, mail-order and cooperative buying and the public market? What can we do to improve the sanitary conditions of our city markets? Do you think it is necessary for women to learn values of textiles? 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. THE NO-TOBACCO LEAGUE OF UTAH An organization to be known as The No-Tobacco League of Utah has been formed with headquarters in Salt Lake City. The object of the league as stated in article two of the constitution is "To enlighten the people concerning the evil effect of tobacco and by every legitimate means to bring about the abolition of its use." Officers of the League are: Fred L. W. Bennett, President; Michael Mauss, and Mrs. J. M. Anderson, Vice-Presidents; T. F. McDonald, Treasurer; Mrs. H. K. Christensen, Secretary; Albert E. Foster, Assistant Secretary. According to the secretary the league is not affiliated with any particular church but seeks the support of all who are opposed to the tobacco habit. One of the first things it is hoped to accomplish is the strict enforcement of the present laws forbidding juvenile smoking. Many members have already been secured, it is stated, although the efforts of the officers so far have been confined largely to Salt Lake City and County. The Membership fee is 50c a year, 25c more buying the No-Tobacco Journal. A sixteen page monthly magazine devoting exclusively to the evils of tobacco. Kate M. Christensen, Secretary. Fred. L. Bennett, President. The late gifted song-writer Henry A. Tuckett, left as his last musical contribution to this Church a stirring patriotic song and chorus, "America, we Love Thee." We recommend this to all our choirs and soloists. Write Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze, care Primary Association, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. VENNA HASTINGS. We have just read a charming and faith-promoting story, called Venna Hastings, which deals with the life, love, and struggles of a beautiful and refined girl who finally discovers the gospel and is comforted through the "peace that passeth understanding." We suggest that our sisters may well give this book as a Christmas gift to their daughters, for it will satisfy the modern craving for fiction, and at the same time will instill faith into their hearts. Address the author, Julia Farr, 119 F. Street, Salt Lake City. Consolidated Music Co., Salt Lake, Utah. Send me free and postpaid, catalogues, prices and terms of (This does not obligate me at all) My name Address NEKTO is the Family Drink Drink it at Meal Time People are just coming to realize the value of a good drink at meal-time. If the drink is the right kind it adds greatly to the enjoyment of the meal. Nekto is really a meal-time drink. It tastes better than at any other time and being food as well as drink is properly a part of the meal. Try it in your home. Order a case from your grocer or druggist and enjoy your meals more than ever. CULLEN ICE & BEVERAGE CO. Salt Lake. Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes Made on the Munson Army Last or the English Toed School Shoes FOR BOYS, YOUTHS, LITTLE GENTS Ernest Lambourne SALT LAKE'S LEADING FLORIST 67 South Main Phone Was. 7516 Salt Lake City EVERYTHING FOR ELECTRICITY - AUTOMOBILE ACCESSORIES 51 EAST FIRST SOUTH WAS. 6760 Your Photographs Should Come From AMUNDSEN'S 249 MAIN STREET Better Work Because Better Equipment Established 1877 Phone, Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY THE BRUNSWICK-BALKE-COLLENDER CO. Carom and Pocket-billiard Tables for the home. Beautifully illustrated "Home Magnet" catalog furnished on request. 55-59 West South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah "DELIVERED EVERYWHERE" Ice Cream Special attention given to parcel post candy orders P. O. Box 1713 Salt Lake City The UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Gospel Doctrine Selections from Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith. The Melchizedek Priesthood Quorums have adopted GOSPEL DOCTRINE as a text for class study for the next two years. The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. It contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and autograph of President Smith. OFFICERS Heber J. Grant, President Charles W. Nibley, Vice-President Wm. R. Wallace, Vice President Henry T. McEwan, Vice President and Cashier Alvin C. Strong, Assistant Cashier George H. Keddington, Assistant Cashier Handsomely bound in cloth $1.50 postpaid. Get the "Guide" to go with it. Price 15c. DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE 6 MAIN STREET Put to Use the Dead Winter Months ATTEND THE BIG WINTER QUARTER AT THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE (The Home of the Efficient Education) REGISTRATION DEC. 4-6 QUARTER OPENS DEC. 8 When outdoor work is slack, perfect yourself in your vocation by twelve weeks at Utah's great school. You can prepare for your degree or take strictly vocational work in the schools of Agriculture, Home Economics, Agricultural Engineering, Mechanic Arts, Commerce and Business Administration and General Science. Send for special Winter circular. Address the President's Office, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. 159 COURSES IN 46 DEPARTMENTS OPEN TO YOU RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DECEMBER, 1919 Read our Minutes of Relief Society Conference. Fine, aren't they? What do you know about the Ten Tribes? The Lesson Work Preview gives the Guide Year's Outline. attractive Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints No. 29 Bishop's Bldg, Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year? Single Copy 10c