[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: WELCOME TO MISSIONARIES. | Author: Unknown]

WELCOME TO MISSIONARIES.

Levin, New Zealand,
April 11, 1898.
My Dear Mother:
	Here we are in this Nick ’o the woods
with a little time for writing home mail,
and first that goes to mother and Mother B.
the rest I will write to as I can, but to these
two I must say a word you know.
	There is so much to say that I hardly
know where to begin, but first I am well,
we having arrived at Wellington Sunday,
April 3, at 11 o’clock a. m., all fine and
glad to get ashore. Our voyage from Suva
Fiji was not quite so pleasant as from
Honolulu, having met a nasty gale for .two
days, but after that it was pleasant again
and our hearts were made glad on Saturday
when the East Cape of New Zealand came
in sight. That meant that our sea voyage
was nearing an end and that soon we could
be actively engaged in the work for which
we have come forth. It was interesting,
too, to see the glad smile on Hirini’s
countenance as he looked at the land so
familiar, so dear to his memory. Although
he now looks upon Salt Lake City as his
home, his Zion, still there must naturally
be a strong emotional sensation as he looks
upon the land of his fathers and his birth
and the experiences of a long life. Then
of his friends whom he was to meet. No
wonder a smile lit up his dear old
countenance. But I find that the sea trip
and the excitement of meeting have been
quite a tax on him, and we will have to
husband his strength and ask the Lord to
bless him for the labors and travels before
him.
	On our arrival at Wellington I was hand-
ed a letter from Elder Richards stating that
conference had commenced that morning at
Popawai, Wairarapa, and for us to proceed
there as soon as convenient. Being Sunday
no trains were running, only excursion
boats and bicyles, so we had to content our-
selves by waiting till morning. In the
meantime, however, we got our trunks
through the Custom House, but not with-
out some difficulty, as one brother very
providently inclined, had three pairs of new
shoes in his trunk, which had never been
worn and of which I knew nothing. These
were held, of course, also two packages of
underclothing on which we had to pay
some duty.
	Next morning at 7:15 we had all our
baggage transferred and were on our way to
the “hui tau” (annual conference,) where
we arrived at a little before noon. I had
wired President Richards and we were met
at the train with sufficient conveyances to
take us all over. Brother W. C. Castleton
was there with a one-horse buggy for me,
and I very much enjoyed the three mile
drive to the Maori fra with him. And
what a royal reception! About a fourth of
a mile from the fra we found a brass band,
(Maori) waiting for us which formed in
marching order and we were requested to
dismount and fall in which we did, two
and two, there being eight of us. Thus
we were escorted under fine music and the
Queen’s own flag, (God save the Queen.)
A little further we were met by a party

[Column 2]
who gave us a reception haka (dance) when
the band fell to the rear, the dancing com-
pany falling back gradually till the space in
front of the large building was reached.
Then the dancing party fell out and a “tan-
gi” commenced. This part I felt it was not
necessary for us all to endure, so as soon as
we could politely do it we left Hirini to re-
ceive that attention and we broke ranks
and fell upon the necks of the twenty-eight
Utah Elders assembled. You see our com-
pany swelled the number to thirty-five, and
I just can assure you we did have a good
time.
	Our arrival rather broke into the conduct
of conference and the afternoon was given
up to welcome speeches, regular meetings
being resumed again at 7 p. m., followed
by three meetings each day, Tuesday and
Wednesday. On Thursday the chief of
the village, an outsider, invited us to re-
main for a holiday and feast at his expense.
We could, of course, not do less than ac-
cept after his kind treatment of us in assist-
ing to entertain our conference, we being
on his ground. Some of the boys got up a
matched game of baseball, and when Elder
Richards and I walked out a little later
they insisted upon my acting as umpire.
Well, so long as it was a non-running posi-
tion I accepted, and had the thanks of the
winning side.
	The big dinner occurred at 5:30 p. m.,
and I can just tell you it was a spread.
About two hundred sat down to tables
loaded with good things. Roast beef, pork
and mutton, fish, fowl and potatoes, first
course; then plum pudding and pastry
galore.
	Elders Richards, Hirini, and yours truly.
occupied the places of honor at a table with
the chief and a friend. The decorations
were the whole tops of trees, ferns and
large bouquets; and the guests did full just-
ice to the viands prepared. After supper
and evening prayers the tables were cleared
out and a dance indulged in by the Maories.
In this we did not participate, as the mis-
sion statutes rule the Elders out of such
intimacy with the opposite sex. We could
only sit and look on. The music was
furnished by the Maori band, and was
really good. Some of our Elders varied
the amusements with a sort of an orchestral
program, there being a violin, mandolin,
claironet, two harmonicas and a piano.
	Elder Richards and I left early going to
the room above, which was the Elders’
quarters, attending to other and more im-
portant matters. About 1:30, just as Brother
Richards was getting into bed, the call for
“after the ball supper” was made, and I
not having undressed was deputized to rep-
resent the president. Thus it was past 2
a. m. when I retired, and some of us did
not turn in till 4 or 5 o'clock, and we were
out again at 5:30 getting horses up and
ready for those who came that way, and
the dispersing commenced. Many of the
Maories took the early trains and the place
began to look lonesome. But we have had
a glorious good time; have had some most
excellent meetings, and I can say for my-
self I enjoyed it immensely. But we were
very busy. Between meetings and at night
planning and arranging appointments,
answering questions, instructing the Elders,
so that we never got to sleep till 1:30, and
out at 5:30 or 6 in the morning. Also I
had little sleep the two nights before reach-
ing there and when we left on Friday hold-
ing a meeting with Europeans in Carterton,


I was just struggling to keep awake. But
Saturday night and last night we had a
chance to catch up, and are now ready for
work again.
	It was really more of a pleasure even than
I had anticipated to meet old Maori friends
again. To remember and be remembered
so kindly was very nice. I have not yet
seen any of my Waiapu district people, as
they did not get down to conference, it is a
long way for them. But I am glad to [-]ay
that our next April conference will be held
up there. Also I expect to take in the dis-
trict on my way to Auckland, spending
most of the month of May in that and ad-
joining districts, reaching Auckland early
in June, with conferences appointed from
that on to September and October, so you
see I shall be busy. We are now on our
way to the Mabia, making a final trip for
Elder Richards. The Mabia is Hirini’s
old home, and we desired to make it con-
venient to take him up there early. We
expect to go on tomorrow to Napiere.
	In all probability Elder Richards with
W. C. Castleton, clerk of the mission, and
three other Elders will leave Wellington on
April 28th on the same boat on which we
came out. They will reach home about
May 25th and you may expect a call from
them.
	Now mother, do please take care of your-
self. I am looking for home mail due in
Auckland tomorrow. This should leave
Auckland on the 16th. I am quite anxious
to hear how matters have gone on at home.
But we are all in the hands of the Lord,
and we must do the best we can leaving
the rest to Him.
	Please remember me to all my friends.
Love to Lizzie and Charlie and all the
folks. Send this over to Mother Burton to
read as I must write her but briefly this
time.
	The News is not furnished the mission,
so it you will get the Semi-Weekly and
send me in one bundle each San Francisco
mail, I will try and arrange for the pay of
same. With love I am, your son
EZRA T. STEVENSON.


