[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: VISIT TO SAN LUIS STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

VISIT TO SAN LUIS STAKE.

	On Friday morning, June 3, we left Salt
Lake City to visit the sisters in San Luis
valley, accompanied by Sister Minnie J.
Snow who represented the Y. L. M. I. A.
	We reached La Jara Saturday morning,
where we met some of the sisters and drove
over to Sanford with them. Mrs. Cornelia
Mortensen, president of the Relief Society,
took us home with her, and that afternoon
and evening we had the opportunity of
seeing a number of the sisters of that place.
We dined at Mrs. Mary E. Crowther’s, the
secretary of the Relief Society of the Stake,
whose husband is away on a mission. Sun-
day morning quite a number of the Sanford
people went over to Manassa where the Re-
lief Society conference was held. The morn-
ing was fine and the ride enjoyable, and the
country everywhere looked delightful and
prosperous.
	Our party went direct to President
Smith’s for instruction and lunched there,
then to the meeting house where after the
sacrament had been administered the con-
ference opened. There was an excellent
representation from the several branches,
and an opening address by President Corne-
lia Mortensen. The secretary read the
minutes of the previous conference which
gave a good idea of the work of the Society
in that locality.
	The same evening there was a meeting
of the Y. M. and Y. L conjoint and a gen-
eral invitation extended to all—there was
a full attendance and a good spirit. Some
young missionaries from the city were pres-
ent and bore faithful testimonies, they are
doing effective work among the people in
Colorado, organizing branches of the Church
under the presidency of Apostle John W.
Taylor who has headquarters in Denver.
We were delighted to hear from Brother
Taylor, whom we met on the train in go-
ing over, in company with Brother Willie
Clive, that he had organized a Relief Soci-
ety in Denver and also in Colorado Springs

[Column 2]
and expected to organize soon in Pueblo,
which has since been done, Mrs. Susa
Young Gates being present and assisting
Apostle Taylor and the Elders.
	An interesting conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. was held in Manassa on Monday,
there were three meetings held, the Relief
Society conference occupying the morning
hours, and the following day we met with
the sisters of Mountain View at which place
we were literally feasted; to look at the
tables, one would have imagined it was
Christmas, and the puzzle was where it all
came from, roast turkey and every other
imaginable luxury away out on the open
fields where the ward house was situated,
miles away from the dwellings. The warm
welcome and generous hospitality will never
be forgotten. The same afternoon we held
meeting in Sanford also in the evening,
both were largely attended.
	Afterwards we held meetings in Morgan
and Richfield and Eastdale, the last twenty-
five miles away across the Rio Grande
river over which has been built a stupen-
dous iron bridge. The drive to Eastdale
was most interesting and there were novel-
ties to be seen in Spanish and Mexican
houses which are anything but artistic,
though situated as they are might be called
picturesque. Eastdale is beautifully situ-
ated and at present prosperous under the
direction of Bishop Jenson who seems to
possess the elements of character necessary
for colonizing. We enjoyed this place
very much, held two meetings, one at 4 p.
m., another at 8 p. m. We left early in
the morning and drove near to a rugged
mountain on the borders of New Mexico,
en route we saw several wolves who seemed
very bold and fleet of foot. President
Smith was sorry he was unarmed, for he
could easily have killed one or two of them.
	The drive across the lonely country was
charming in several ways, particularly so
to the writer as there was desert land where
one would expect to see mirage, and we
were not altogether disappointed, at another
time we should be very glad to write about
it. We reached Manassa as we supposed
in time for an afternoon meeting, but were
surprised to find a banquet had been pre-
pared instead in the new hall just purchased
by the sisters there for the use of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. The decora-
tions with flags and bunting as well as
plants, vines and flowers was very hand-
some and impressive, and the tables fairly
“groaned with the weight of the feast.”
About two hundred and fifty people par-
took of the bounteous repast provided, the
lack of time prevented speech-making, al-
though the writer made a few remarks and
Sister Mortensen really rose to the occasion
in a few appropriate words.
	Our visit will long be remembered, Sis-
ter Snow always seemed able to suit the occa-
sion in her gentle way at all meetings, and
we both felt blest in our labors and enjoyed
the people we met as we traveled hither 
and thither up and down.


