[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A call for a mass meeting to organize
a permanent State Society of the National
Red Cross has been issued, and it is fair to
expect that Utah will bring into the field
valiant workers, who will do credit to the
State and be second to none in the union in
active sympathy and practical assistance for
suffering humanity.
	The Relief Society conference which had
been talked of for June has been postponed
until sometime during the first part of the
month of August next, on account of the
general confusion prevailing throughout
the West as well as the East, because of the
call for volunteers for the war with Spain.
Due notice will be given previous to the
conference when the date is decided upon.
	We have had the pleasure recently in
company with Sister Minnie J. Snow of
visiting the sisters of the San Luis Stake
of Zion in Colorado, and attending the con-
ference of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and also the Y. L. M. I. A. and
several ward branches of the Society, and
were everywhere hospitably entertained
and cordially welcomed. Further particu-
lars of meetings must be deferred until a
more convenient time.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards, first vice-president
to President Zina D. H Young of th Nation-
al Woman’s Relief Society, attended the con-
ference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake on June 3, accompanied by Sister
Emily S. Richards, and officiated in the re-
organization of the Stake board, which was
rendered necessary because of the demise of
the late president, Sister Emma Brown, and
one of her counselors, Sister Sarah H. Cum-
mings. Full particulars of the conference
will be given at a later date.
	We are pleased to be able to inform our
readers that very recently new branches of
the National Woman’s Relief Society have
been organized in Denver and Colorado
Springs, and that Apostle John W. Taylor
expects to organize one in Grand Junction
in the same state very soon. We received
word today of a branch just organized in
San Diego, California. We shall publish
particulars of these new branches very soon.
	The class of trained nurses under Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts are diligently pursuing
their studies. The class numbers about a
hundred women of suitable ages, ranging
from twenty to forty. They meet in the
lecture hall of the L. D. S. college, Temple-
ton building, Monday, Tuesday and Wed-
nesday from ten to twelve a. m., and are
getting on very well indeed, so we are in-


[Column 1]
formed. Dr. Roberts deserves the greatest
commendation for the benevolent work she
has so generously undertaken.
	Women are proving themselves heroic
and self-sacrificing as well as patriotic the
country over in our day as well as in former
times. The taking up of military nurses
duties by young women of wealth, culture
and refinement is proof of the fact. Miss
Margaret Long, daughter of Secretary
Long, and others from John Hopkins medi-
cal school of Baltimore, Miss Mabel Austin,
daughter of Ex-Governor Austin of Min-
nesota, Miss Dorothy Reid and Miss Mabel
Sims have two weeks ago reported to the
naval hospital at Brooklyn to nurse wound-
ed soldiers who were sent up from Samp-
son’s fleet on the Silence. Many others
whose names are not as widely known are
said do be engaged in the work.
	Since the last issue of the "Exponent"
two eminent men who have figured conspic-
uously in the world’s history have departed
this life. On the 19th of May, at his home
in Hawarden, the Right Honorable Wm.
E. Gladstone died. He is known every-
where as the “Grand old man.” A man of
the century, sound in judgment, eminent in
literature, almost unsurpassed as a states-
man, with the heroic courage of conviction
that few men have possessed. Edward
Bellamy died in Springfield, Mass. later in
the month. His literary works have attract-
ed great attention during the last few years,
especially among the masses of the people,
as the subjects treated upon touched the
hearts of struggling humanity as no others
have done perhaps in later times. He was
literally a man of the people.
	Eastern papers tell us that Clara Barton
has returned North, and after staying a few
days in Washington consulting with offici-
als of the State Department, she went to
New York to confer with members of the
Red Cross Relief Committee regarding the
Red Cross work in the field during military
and naval expeditions. The principal work
in hand is the fitting out of two hospital re-
lief ships. The proposition is to use the
funds of the National Red Cross Relief Com-
mittee, of which Bishop Potter is chairman,
to fit up two ships, one for the Atlantic
and the other for the Pacific, with the
Philippines as the objective point. They
will operate under the Naval articles of the
Geneva treaty, Each ship will have a hos-
pital and surgical staff and will be well sup-
plied with everything needful to care for
and relieve suffering and distress.
	The temporary organization of the Red
Cross Society has done excellent service
during the few weeks since the ladies met
and commenced in a practical way to work
for the benefit of the Utah Volunteers; hun-
dreds of fever bandages have been made, al-
so comforts for hundreds containing the
most essential articles for use in mending or
for daily use (when no women are about) to
serve in sewing on buttons, etc. Serving
lunches, to the companies on their departure
has been one of the most notable features of
the work and one that appealed direct to the
inner man; something invigorating at the
last moment before starting upon that weari-
some journey will be remembered by the
patriotic mountain boys who have gone
from the midst of plenty to serve their
country and for freedom’s sake. And each
mother and every true woman prays God to
bless our dear boys and bring them safe

[Column 2]
home again to their loved ones, and may
Peace soon spread her white mantle over all
nations and the sword of death be sheathed
forever.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
