[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: THOUGHTS ABOUT THE WAR. | Author: Unknown]

THOUGHTS ABOUT THE WAR.

	The war news is revolting, appalling
and blood-curdling, and the time has most
assuredly come when we cannot endure to
even read the details of the heart-rending
occurrences transpiring from day to day,
one turns away from the bulletin boards faint
and sick at heart, knowing too, sometimes,
that their very own if not wounded or dy-
ing are among the rank and file likely at
any moment to be in the midst of the dis-
tress consequent upon war. O, that the
day might speedily come when war should
cease and nations be at peace one with
another; but while we are in the midst
of these terrible sorrows and calamities it
behooves us all to exercise faith in God and
pray earnestly that the white emblem of
peace may soon o’ershadow those engaged
in this fearful conflict though it were under-
taken to free the oppressed from the yoke
of bondage.
	Even now the losses on both sides are
fearful to contemplate, and none know
what may yet transpire before this “cruel
war” is over. The heat of the tropical sun
is overpowering, and the wounded who suf-
fer from agonizing pain are in a condition
more deplorable than those who have passed
over to the great beyond, where we are
told there is no more pain or suffering for-
ever.
	When we consider that among the volun-
teers is the very flower of American man-
hood (many of them only boys) patriots
and sons of patriots, it is indeed terrible to
think how great is the loss to the country
as well as to the homes made desolate and
the heartstrings torn with anguish, and to
those of us who feel this war might have
been averted by arbitration had wisdom
held her rightful sway, the fearful results
already recorded are overwhelming. One
can scarcely rejoice in a victory that re-
quires such sacrifice of human lives in this
enlightened age when civilization makes
such boasts of mercy and of charity and
brotherly love. O, the pity of it all, that it
had to be! And if as so many assert, un-
due ambition and a spirit of revenge is
prompting it then, indeed, “How have the
mighty fallen.”
	President McKinley’s Proclamation that
we should “give thanks unto the Lord”
for the nation’s success is well-timed, and
that we beseech the Lord in all humility
for continued guidance and protection is the
proper spirit to manifest; meantime that we
bow to His will and in all sincerity conse-
crate and dedicate our armies to His ser-

[Column 2]
vice, putting away all selfishness and de-
sire for vengeance, and pray that no more
human blood be spilt, but peace be soon de-
clared and a better and a higher lesson
be taught to the barbarous nations than to
slay their enemies. The Savior’s lesson to
all mankind was “love one another.”
	There may be some rejoicing over such
victories as Dewey’s and the heroism of
Sampson, Schley and others, but after all
must it not necessarily be rejoicing in sup-
pressed grief? and is there real cause after
all—we admire physical bravery on land or
sea, but God knows whether this be a
righteous conflict and He will one day
bring all the nations to judgment. And
now with heads bowed down and hearts
sorely stricken we mourn the nation’s loss
and the untimely death of heroes whose
lives were freely given for their country’s
sake and the oppressed of other lands. And
the end is not yet. “And the mourners go
about the streets.”
	But let us hope that this is not all, and
exercise faith in God for our grand army of
the Great Republic that He will have com-
passion upon those, who have gone in obe-
dience to authority, and preserve in the
hour of danger the honor of this Western
continent that it may indeed be an asylum
and a haven of refuge for all nations, as has
been declared by ancient and modern pro-
phets.


[Column 1]
