[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: AT THE BIENNIAL FEDERATION OF CLUBS | Author: WOMANS EXPONENT]

AT THE BIENNIAL FEDERATION OF CLUBS
IN DENVER.
	“Livingston found in the mountains of
Central Africa a tribe who placed over the
doorway of every hut a sign that meant ‘she
ruleth here.’ Savage instinct and impulse
grasped a principle of equality and justice
that it has taken ages of Christian civiliza-
tion to discover. Over the gateway of
Colorado stands the sentiment ‘she ruleth
here.’ Are men of the West more chival-
rous or more just than their Eastern
brothers?
	“Is it a coincidence, or is there an ele-
ment of truth in the boast of Switzerland,
Montenegro and other mountain lands, that
liberty has a clearer vision in higher alti-
tudes? Certain it is that it is the mountain
states Colorado, Utah, Idaho and Wyoming
only whose statutes recognize that the
Creator made no mistake when he placed
man and woman side by side in Eden.
Westward the course of justice, as well as
empire takes its way.
	“It is fitting that this great confederation
of women’s clubs should meet in Colorado.
While you are not a suffrage association
and may not care to vote, the ultimate of
your intellectual aspirations must be the
elimination of sex from the statutes of
equality. Colorado has added a soprano to
the symphony of political liberty, and we
offer our laws, our homes, schools, institu-
tions as object lessons to those who would
doubt the results of equality before the law.
(Great applause.)
SUFFRAGE NEEDS NO DEFENSE. 
	“Woman suffrage needs not the defense
of results; it is not a question of expedi-
ency but of abstract justice. Yet no evil
has come from the experiment. My testi-
mony may be biased, for had I received no
women votes some one else would have had
the pleasure of greeting you this morning.
But to me there has come no just criticism
to the participation of women in public af-
fairs; no awaking from the fond dream that
the union of the vigor, physical force
and courage of man with the higher moral
and spiritual qualities of woman will weave
for our children a fairer destiny than has
yet come to the race.
	“While here gather your own testimony.
The state superintendent of schools is a wo-
man, and no office in the state house is con-
ducted with more ability. Half the county
superintendents of Colorado are of the same
sex, nearly all of the teachers are women,
yet we challenge comparison with the pub-
lic school system of any state in the Union.
WOMANLY WOMEN.
	“Upon our streets even counting our
Buffalo Bills and Arizona Kids, you will
not see as many long-haired men and short-
haired women as in Boston. Our women
have not diverted their patronage from the
dressmaker to the tailor. Dry goods and
millinery stores still prosper. Politics and
oot ball still have their season. The set-

[Column 2]
ting sun glints the mountains yonder with
its beams of glory as in the days of old
when man was king. Now and then we
meet a man whose spirit gropes through the
murky atmosphere of personal appetite. A
member of this class went home last night,
and at supper protested against cold pota-
toes and a tough beefsteak; his wife who
had just returned from her club, asked him
if he measured the universe by a good meal.
She had spent the afternoon at a woman’s
club discussing the weighty problem and
potentialities of the human race, and cold
potatoes and a poor steak were but an in-
significent local issue. Go into our homes
and you will find, certainly, no more ex-
amples of heavy bread, of neglected duties
and husbands, of ragged and unwashed
children, than in states which women’s
clubs and suffrage have not invaded. No
fair, just man can look into the eyes of the
mother who bore him, or the wife who
guides the destiny of his own sons, and
deny her any club or political right which
is his.
	“Selfishness will pipe its lament, and
when the politicians realize that equal suf-
frage doubles the number of candidates for
office without increasing the number of
offices, they will anathematize the expan-
sion of the ballot with as much vigor as
Lord North cursed the memory of Colum-
bus for discovering a land that had cost him
so much in trouble, treasure and defeat.
	“If Mrs. Browning were living and in
Colorado she would have no occasion to
write of ‘women sobbing out of sight be-
cause men made the laws,’ for the influence
of women voters, and especially of the wo-
men’s clubs, can mould—almost dictate—
any new legislation.
WOMEN AS STATESMEN.
	“Women may develope the arts of a
statesman, but they can never be politicians.
When their personal ambition is at issue
they cannot dissemble. Since our consti-
tution women have voted in all school elec-
tions, and that is one department of
government in which politics and venality
have never found lodgment. What her in-
fluence has been in our school life is a hint
of what it will be in every direction where
morals and the public good are concerned.
	When the Israelites were broken with
corruption and dissension God gave a wo-
man to judge them; Deborah ruled them
for forty years, and the Bible adds ‘then
they had a rest.’ I have never been clear
whether the rest came as a result of her
rule, or because her reign was ended. But
in our land come rest or come dissension,
Deborah is to reign. The women’s libera-
tion movement which under the shadow of
the Rocky mountains has crystalized into
legal enfranchisement, is not a transient
impulse; we stand at its cradle, but few of
us will live to see the limits it will reach.
Liberty when unchained at Runnymede,
made the circuit of the globe. So with
equality, it is not a summer ripple upon the
political sea, but a strong, swelling tide,
whose waves will wash every civilized
shore.


“The trial has been called and it will
never be thrown out of court until the logic
of experience has proven whether the past
inequalities of man and woman were the
invention of man’s legislation or of divine
authority.
WOMAN IS HUMAN.
	“Woman’s clubs and her interest in pub-
lic questions have been a revelation to
many. Woman is found to be neither di-
vine nor Satanic, neither a slave nor an
angel, simply human. She is neither the
soulless creature of Homer or Milton, nor
the burlesque divinity of Cervantes, but a
being dowered with common sense and an
exalted purpose. Every attainment but in-
creases her moral and intellectual force
without damage to tile sublime character
of mother and wife. She may break some
of the chains of prejudice and conventionali-
ty, but she will not lose her womanhood.
Fear not that equality will make her mas-
culine, ‘man and woman created he them,’
and no belated act of justice on the part of
man can change the ordinance of God.
	“Proud as we are of the public’s past the
Higher and purer influence of woman in
public affairs should give a future still more
radiant and fair. Mrs. Stanton said that if
Miriam had been in charge of the children
of Israel that they would have reached
Canaan in forty days instead of wandering
like Gypsies for forty years. Perhaps had
woman been placed in our national consti-
tution it would not have taken one hun-
dred years and the first sons of a genera,
tion to eliminate slavery. Had the single
word ‘sex’ been inserted in the fifteenth
amendment, I believe that our nation
would be a generation in advance of its
present position on the problems of moral
and municipal reform.
INSPIRATION OF WOMAN.
	The nation owes a debt of gratitude to
women’s clubs. They have been an in-
spiration to its members, they have been
centers from which radiate electric currents
of moral and political reform. They have
broadened their own horizon and that of
the race. They have organized the eneigy
and intellect of woman and directed them
into every field of good, upon which falls
the smile of God or man.
	“Men have clubs for sport, pleasure and
dissipation. If we omit the Woman’s
Morning Whist club, which is as wasteful
as any club man can invent, women’s clubs
are universities, colleges, training schools
where post graduate degrees are taken in
citizenship, art and literature.
	“Woman’s sphere is no longer confined
to the washtub, the kitchen or the parlor.
	“Her sphere is now the grand whirling
globe with all its responsibilities and its
glories. The growth of woman’s clubs is
the greatest movement of this generation,
and as representatives of that beneficient
influence we greet you today. 
	“The faith Rome had in her vestal vir-
gins, Colorado has in her mothers, wives
and daughters; to them we gladly trust the
sacred fires of civilization, the palladium of
our liberties, and judging by the preponder-
ance of flowers and feathers at church ser-
vice, our religion also.
	“In the name of the women we love we
welcome you to a state, where the word
‘male’ has been eliminated from the laws
and the word ‘obey’ from the marriage
service.”


WOMANS EXPONENT


