[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: RED CROSS. | Author: Unknown]

RED CROSS.

	Clara Barton, president of the National
Red Cross; George Kennan, first vice-
president and D. L. Cobb counsel, appeared
before the Executive board of the American
National Red Cross Relief committee
yesterday afternoon in the Chamber of
Commerce to answer questions concerning
the standing of the organization they rep-
resent. The meeting was behind closed doors.
	Doubts heretofore expressed by members
of the committee, notably by Vice-Chairman
E. Orr, as to the exact status of the Red
Cross, were according to Secretary John P.
Faure, completely dissipated by Miss Barton
and her associates. Mr. Orr was not pres-
ent, but William G. Low appeared as his
proxy.
	A week ago two members of the National
Red Cross asserted that the members of the
association were ten in number. Miss Barton
quoted it as a society of over thirty, whose
meetings were merely for work in the field,
"entirely unhampered by elective commit-
tees." This hitherto regarded as an ob-
jection was apparently sanctioned by the
Relief committee.
	"Miss Barton's telling address," said Mr.
Faure, "descriptive of Red Cross work car-
ried every man off his feet. Many wept."
	Mr. Kennan spoke especially of the busi-
ness machinery of the Red Cross—its care-
fulness of distribution, economy of adminis-
tration and completeness of record of its
doings.
	The committee was entirely satisfied and
commended the methods and practice
of the Red Cross as described by Miss Bar-
ton and the others. The assertion that
Miss Barton had appeared before the Relief
Committee to vindicate the Red Cross is in-
dignantly scouted, and the further announce-
ment that a special staff would be appointed
from its ranks to accompany her on her re-
turn journey southward was also denied.
For herself Miss Barton said:
	"The committee and I have perfectly
understood each other. All actions of the

[Column 2]
National Red Cross have been fully endorsed.
I am glad of the opportunity to thank the
press of New York for its attitude toward
me and the organization I represent."
	Mr. Faure reported a $2,500 contribu-
tion from August Belmont & Co., and other
donations amounting to $641.
	The New York Ambulance Red Cross
Auxiliary at the home of Mrs. W. C. Cowles,
No. 689 Madison avenue, reported yesterday
$2,695 as the total recent collections, mak-
ing a total of $46,121.
	Eighty thousand dollars was reported as
the aggregate sum collected by the various
auxiliaries of the Red Cross at yesterday's
meeting of the Woman's Committee on
Auxiliaries at the home of Mrs. Butler Dun-
can, No. 1 Fifth avenue.
	The General Committee, which serves as
a clearing house for all the auxiliaries, re-
ceived representatives from sixteen of the
twenty-four already formed, with a detailed
account of materials and funds on hand.
Each auxiliary will turn over a certain
amount of linen, hardware, hospital equip-
ment, cots, etc., that the various associa-
tions have undertaken to furnish. The
new organizations are:
	No. 20—West Side Auxiliary, under
Mrs. Charles R. Shaw, No. 130 West
Seventy-fifth street.
	No. 21—Hazleton Pa. Auxiliary.
	No. 22—Westchester Land and Sea Aux-
iliary, under Mrs. Frank K. Hunter.
	No. 23—Staten Island Auxiliary, under
Mrs. May Myrick.
	No. 24—Princeton Auxiliary,  under
Mrs. James Morgan, Mrs. W. E. D. Scott
and Mrs. Laurence Hutton.


