BY HANNAH T. KING.

	When we take a retrospective view of 
our past life, and examine our relative posi-
tion to our Heavenly Father, what is it that
gives us confidence in Him? It is to know
that we have ever loved His laws, and as
far as we know them they have ever been
our delight; that we have also loved his at-
tributes and desired to imitate them; con-
sequently, virtue and goodness have been
exemplars to us, and we have practiced
them according to the light and knowledge
we possessed; that we have loved those in 
whom such were conspicuous; have set our
foot upon all that opposed these principles,
though to do so we had to wage a continual
warfare with surrounding circumstances
and surrounding spirits, both embodied and 
invisible, the warfare being generally the 
silent battle and the secret strife connected
with the working of our own soul! and 
when no eye was upon us save those of God
and angels. When we know all this has
been our experience it gives us a confi-

[Column 2]
dence towards God that nothing else can
impart with equal force! We offer up our 
prayers with a more confiding spirit, for we
have a conviction that they will be heard
and accepted. We may lose our friends,
poverty may become our portion, isolation
our present lot, calumny may assail us with
"back-wounding" stripes, misunderstand-
ing, that hydra-headed monster, may cast
its baleful influence around us, but no mat-
ter—none of these, separate or combined,
can destroy the confidence in our God which 
such a life bestows upon us; amidst it all 
we feel the light of his countenance beam-
ing upon us, we hear the whisperings of 
His Spirit in our heart, saying, "Fear not,
I am with thee; I have redeemed thee,
thou art mine!"
	Again, when we have been so fortunate
as to find a friend "after our own heart,"
when we have proved them by oft-repeated
trials, often "weighed in the balance, but
never found wanting," in our prosperity
near to us and rejoicing with us, upholding
us in the sunshine that was flooding our
pathway, watching that we became not
dazzled by it, cautioning us to be moderate
in our joys, temperate in our pleasures,
humble in our wealth, charitable in our 
riches, grateful to the bounteous Giver for
the blessings He bestowed upon us, and re-
minding us that we are but stewards, who
will have to give an account of our steward-
ship. To such an one we might confide our 
bosom secrets, with a confidence that the
grave would not be more silent. In all the 
scenes of life they would be unchanging;

		Near us when our sun doth shine,
		But nearer still when in decline.

	When wealth had made wings and fled
away, when summer friends had departed
from us, frozen up by the chilling winds of 
adversity, when our heart indeed felt heavy
with its many trials and its adverse cir-
cumstances, who remained that had waited
on our footsteps while prosperity beamed
upon us? Who stood fondly lingering by
to speak the consoling word and point us to 
a brighter day? The friend whose love
was no earth-born passion, and therefore
the things of earth had no power to affect
it—the friend that had ever had our confi-
dence! Oh, there is a divinity in the con-
dence such souls repose in each other! Such
friendship is heavenly, Godlike, and conse-
quently eternal. Are all capable of such
sentiments? I will leave an open verdict
on that query, but I know generally educa-
tion, association, and above all that prolific
source, circumstance, make us what we are,
and I know these exalted sentiments only
thrive in a cultivated heart and mind, and 
in a warm, sincere and reserved disposi-
tion, in a self-denying, self-controlling, self-
reliant spirit. These characters are the 
few, hence we find genuine friendship is 
rare, as such but rarely meet their counter-
part. But there are few whose path of life
has been so sterile as not to furnish them
with some object by which they might
form bright ideas of the truth and beauty
of a confidential friendship. I sympathize
with those who do not carry a model in 
their own bosoms, even if it be only an
ideal one; for I verily believe the ideal will
yet be realized

[Column 3]
	Let us then cultivate everything that
will promote confidence in each other. Let
us practice sincerity, and never profess one
sentiment the duplicate of which is not
in our own bosoms. Let none profess more
than they feel is truth, for it is a fearful
and most injurious thing to be deceived—it
has ruined many a character that otherwise
might have been bright and valuable, and
woe be to the deceiver, for if conscience is
not dead, no other skeleton will be needed
in the closet than such a woeful reflection.
A kiss has often sealed many a sacred com-
pact, and should not be lightly given at
any time. There should be temperance
and a "word of wisdom" in kissing, most
assuredly; this is always observable in all
high toned, refined and cultivated people;
they never kiss indiscriminately, and gen-
erally very rarely. Confidence is the very
soul of all compacts, of whatever grade or
condition. It is the spirit of love and
friendship, and friendship is love without
his wing!


