RIGHTS.

	Mrs. Gage said, I have never so fully felt
the responsibility of the work in which we
are engaged as at the present time. Never
had such a feeling of solemnity, such a con-
ception of the vastness of our undertaking.
To lift the burden which for ages has
weighed down one-half of humanity, to
meet the wrongs, the accumulated suffer-
ing, the injustice of the world:—to combat
the unceasing prejudice which everywhere
meets the reformer. Fain would I stop
and rest,—shut my ears to the cry of sor-
rowing souls, and rest for the remainder of
my day[-]. But I cannot. The burden of
the world's wrongs is upon me. I cannot,
though I would, shut my eyes to the sor-
rows of the crushed ones of earth. Every-
where the great problems of poverty and
vice and crime rise before me, and remem-
bering the words of the good book regard-
ing the one who grasped the handle of the
plough and looked back, I feel that shrink
from it as I may, I must still work on.
	I shall speak upon the foundation princi-
ples of our government, which, without
conceit to myself, I can say are better un-
derstood by the ladies of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association, my associates
upon this platform, than by the statesmen
in yonder Capitol. These consist of per-
sonal, individual rights. It is a curious
anomaly in the history of the world that
the rights of property have always been
recognized before the rights of person.
The revolution had for its war-cry, "No
taxation without representation." What
our forefathers wanted was simply protec-
tion of property, and at the meeting of the 
first Congress, Washington indignantly dis-
claimed the intention of the colonists to
frame an independent government. The
English idea of rights has always been the
rights of property. Many persons are
amazed that the woman suffrage question.is
so much farther advanced in Great Britain
than in our own country, for women house-
holders, rate-payers, vote there at all muni-
cipal elections. But it is not themselves,
but property which votes. For instance, a
woman with several grown sons pays a cer-
tain rental for a house in which she lives
with these sons. She pays the rent and
she votes, but her sons not being rent-pay-
ers, do not vote. This is the action of the
law in Scotland and, I doubt not, in Eng-
land also. You see it is not the person who
votes, but the property. Our country start-
ed tnto govermental life under this idea of
property rights, and our nation is not yet
fully impregnated with its own true princi-
ples, which are the rights of person, indi-
vidual rights. I was looking through a
work issued by the International Peace So-
ciety, when I came upon a paragraph ex-
pressing surprise that although the time
was past when subjects were vassals whose
property and lives the sovereign could alike
use at his option, yet now when sovereigns
could not thus take the property of subjects
without the consent of their representatives
they could plunge the country into war to
which these subjects had not consented,
thus controlling their lives where they
could not their property. But this is ex-
plainable when we recognize the singular
fact permeating history, that property has
ever been held more sacred than person
and its rights secured before the rights of
person.

[Column 2]
	At the framing of the Constitution some
twelve years after our Declaration of In-
dependence, an effort was made on part of
certain delegates to allow States influence
in proportion to their property instead of
their population. It was argued that
States should not desire influence only in
proportion to the taxes they paid. But
this proposition was combatted by other
delegates who recognized the real princi-
ples of our government to be those of per-
sonal rights, and they argued that all per-
sons in a state of nature would have equal
right to representation at time of the first
formation of government, and that to allow
property to have greater representation
would be to make slaves of those not pos-
sessing property. So after much debate
the question was finally settled upon the
basis of personal rights; but still, such is
the influence of inherited tendencies: We
find our nation still governed, in great de-
gree, by these fancied rights of property.
We frequently hear men say, "I am will-
ing to have tax-paying women vote."
	In other words, these men are more En-
glish than Ameriean; they are more per-
meated with the rights of property than of
person.
	There is another American idea that is
not understood as it should be; this is, pro-
tection for the right of suffrage, and here
I shall endeavor to show you the principles
of the National Woman's Suffrage Associa-
tion, and their true accordance with the na-
tional idea of personal rights. What we
demand is national protection for national
citizens in the exercise of their right of vot-
ing, and this principle does not confine
itself to women, but applies equally to men.
United Stated rights is the next great ques-
tion to come before the nation. State
Rights we have heard of until we quite
thoroughly understand its demands, but it
is a singular anomaly in the carrying on of
our government that while the nation con-
trols all these minor questions of post-roads,
revenue, tariff, coinage of money, declara-
tion of peace and war, it allows the very
right of self government upon which it
stands as a nation, namely the suffrage, to
be under the control of the States.
	Experience has not yet taught the people
its danger, although the doctrine of State
Rights has been the Rock upon which the
nation has several times nearly foundered.
	Under the Confederatisn of 1778, (July 9,
1778, ratified by eight colonies,) before we
became the United States, * the doctrine of
State Rights was not primarily, a southern
one; it originated in New England, and as
far as fatherhood of this theory is concern-
ed, the North and not the South, must bear
the burden. Calhoun learned its first prin-
ciples in a northern college, that of Yale,
in Connecticut, from President Dwight,
and in a Massachusetts law office, that of
Theophilus Parsons, he was taught it in an
intensified form to take back with him to
South Carolina.
	Women interested themselves in it as
well as men. Miss Pinckney, the only
lady who ever received the honor of a pub-
lic funeral in this country, wrote so vigor-
ously in its favor that it was said the Nulli-
fication Party of South Carolina was con-
solidated by the nib of a lady's pen.
	Miss Pinckney is an illustrious example
of the power, irresponsible though it may
be, that ever has been wielded by woman
in political affairs. To her we may look
back as one of the chief instruments in
bringing about our present remarkable po-
itical complications. As the invention of-
the Cotton Gin was said to have perpetuata
ed slavery, (and its invention was due to a

[Column 3]
woman) so Miss Pinckney's powerful writ-
ings fixed the public thought in the line of
State Rights. She gathered all the fleeting
impressions brought by Calhoun from New
England, consolidated them into a harmoni-
ous whole, and the real State's Rights party
was born. It is always acknowledged that
not the originator of an idea is so truly re-
sponsible for its fatherhood as is the one
who brings it prominently before the world.
This was Miss Pinckney's position as re-
gards the State Rights question. It was
begotten in New England, born in South
Carolina, and reared to manhood by Miss
Pinckney.
	Despite all that man says, despite all the
opposition she meets, woman will play her
part in politics; it may be well, it may be
ill, but always with power. From Mercy
Otis Warren, of Massschusetts, down
through Miss Pinckney, of South Carolina,
to the latest by-play of Agnes Jenks, it is
impossible for our country—or any other—
to eliminate women from politics.
	The question comes down finally to this
one: Shall women be endowed with a re-
sponsible power, or shall she continue to
exercise her rights in an unrecognized and
irresponsible way whose results may bring
harm that responsible recognized power
cannot do?
	It is a matter of regret that women do
not thoroughly inform themselves of wo-
man's powerful influence in the past, upon
politics. At least let them recognize her
power in our own country in the past and
to-day, where we not only have a Jenks
but a "Gail Hamilton" exposing frauds, and
a western wife and daughter openly recog-
nized as obtaining through their influence
a senatorial seat for husband and father.
	But to go back. In 1782 Rhode Island re-
fused compliance with the recommenda-
tion of congress for a tariff dnty on imports
and prize goods, and through the speaker,
Hon. Wm. Bradford, of the Lower House
of Assembly of that State, made their ob-
jections known to congress, under three
heads, which it is not necessary to present
here.
	This action of Rhode Island led to pro-
longed debate and finally to a recommenda-
tion from congress that the States should
invest that body with greater power for
collecting revenue and prosecuting the
war, than it then possessed. So permeated
was the confederacy with the idea of colo-
nial supremacy—remember that although
this was two years after the Declaration
of Independence the union was only a con-
federation of the colonies, not yet having
grown to either the stature of States or of a 
constitutional government—so thoroughly
was this separated sovereignty idea a part
of the confederate idea, that the proposition
to invest congress with greater power was
only agreed to by four of the thirteen ccu-
federate colonies, and yet it was an ob-
viously necessary suggestion provided the
union, such as it was, was to be preserved.
	This non-compliance with what was need-
ed to establish and confirm the nation
again led to active debate. From revenue,
public debt, and the security of property
rights, the debate took wider range, and
the controversy soon based itself upon the
security of personal rights. Then were ut-
tered these memorable words "that it had
ever been the pride and boast of America
that the rights for which she contended
were the rights of human nature" and "that
the citizens of the United States were re-
sponsible for the greatest trust ever confid-
ed to a political society," and that it was
for the people of the United States, by
whose will, and for whose benefit, the Fed-


[Column 1]

eral Government was instituted, to decide
whether they would support their rank as
a nation.
	My own State of New York was the first
to acknowledge the necessity of stronger
power in the national hands. In July, 1782,
the Legislature of this State in a series of
nine concurrent resolutions, pointed out
the defects of the Confederacy, or State
Rights system, and proposed a general con-
vention of the United Colonies for the pur-
pose of amending the form of government.
	Thus, barely two years had elapsed be-
fore the actual necessities of the new-form-
ed republic proved the need of stronger
power in the hands of the general govern-
ment. The subject. however, passed, and
not until 1786, upon a resolution of the
House of Delegates of Virginia, appointing
commissioners to meet with commission-
ers from such other States as might appoint
them, did this very vital question press
itself upon the people with sufficient force
for action.
	In September, 1786, duly appointed com-
missioners from New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware and Virginia, two
of them Southern and three of them slave
states, met to discuss this now most impor-
tant question. The delegates from these
five states proposed a general convention
of the states to meet in Philadelphia. which
convention framed our National Constitu-
tion.
	Rhode Island, as she was the first state
to exhibit state-right tendencies, was the
last state to ratify the constitution, which
was to take from her all power to question
the right of the United States to lay a duty
upon imported goods. But at various
times and for various pretences, since that
memorable refusal of Rhode Island in 1778,
to be bound by national authority, down to
the present hour, has this conflict between
state and national authority risen. Not
alone to-day, in regard to any supposed
election frauds or intimidation in South
Carolina or Louisana in regard to the
voting of black men, but up in Wyoming,
a territory which nine years ago secured to
women the right of voting, is there a
conflict between state and national power.
I shall not go back to the civil war which
you so well know, but I can be permitted
to refer to some of its results, as it is a sub-
ject of discussion in congress.
	Senator Blaine's recent speech struck the
key-note of Republican policy--mind you,
I say policy, not principle, as far as the
black male citizen is concerned.
	I must be allowed to review Mr. Blaine's
speech. Mr. Blaine is not only the Repub-
lican Senatorial mouth-piece, as far as the
south is concerned, but he is also consid-
ered a presidential candidate for 1880, and
as such, is supposed to stand at the very
foundation stones of the Republican party.
	He declares the issue is not one of mere
sentiment for the rights of the negro, but
one of more portentous magnitude, and that
is, whether the white voter of the North
shall be equal to the white voter of the
South in shaping the policy and fixing the
doctrines of the country.
	There are two curious features to us wo-
men which rise in looking at this speech of-
Senator Blaine. First, we remember his
going through the country in 1872, declar-
ing that the 14th amendment secured the
rights of all citizens to the ballot. He did
not qualify his assertion either by the
words "white" or "male." He simply said
the rights of all citizens were thus secured
by this amendment.
	I came to Washington that following
winter and with the remembrance of this

[Column 2]

speech recently delivered in my own city
of Syracuse, I sought an interview with
Mr. Blaine. I said to him, "Mr. Blaine,
inasmuch as the 14th amendment declares
all persons born or naturalized in the Uni-
ted States to be citizens of the United
States, and inasmuch as the women of the
United States were either born here or have
been naturalized here, they are necessarily
citizens of the United States. You admit
that. Very well, then, in your Syracuse
speech you declared the 14th amendment
secured the right of suffrage to all citizens;
now why are you not consistent? Why do
you not uphold the voting right of women
citizens by a speech in congress?"
	I need not say to you Washington people
what politicians are, for you all know how
easily they dodge a leading question, and
Mr. Blaine dodged my question in a very
peculiar way for he invited me to his house
to see Miss Dodge, otherwise known as
Gail Hamilton. [Laughter and applause.]
So, of course, you may rest assured I
read Mr. Blaine's speech of December 10th,
with an appreciative eye.
	Now while Mr. Blaine was so emphati-
cally pointing out the intimidation of the
black United States citizens of the South
by State Rights men, he forgot to mention
how the United States itself was at that
moment and for years had been oppressing
certain of its own white citizens of the
North.
	He forgot to say that the United States
is inconsistent with itself.
	Although, theoretically, the power over
the suffrage is held to be in the hands of
the States alone, yet practically, the United
States has endowed whatever class it pleas-
ed with the suffrage. Chief Justice Waite
in his decision in the Minor vs. Happersatt
case, against woman's right to vote under
the Fourteenth Amendment, declared the
United States had no voters. But this as-
sertion was false upon the very face of it.
	First, every enfranchised male slave had
the ballot secured him under United States
law, a law which overrode all state provi-
sions against color. At time of ratification
of the last amendments, the State of New
York possessed a color property qualifica-
tion of two hundred and fifty dollars. The
moment these amendments were ratified,
that law became dead on the statute book.
The New York Legislature did not repeal
it. The United States repealed this prop-
erty prohibition, by creating a class of
United States voters out of colored men.
So here is one class of United States voters,
and a clear mistake on the part of Judge
Waite.
	Second, every Southern man disfranchised
because of having taken part in the war,
and who has since been granted amnesty,
has again been made a voter through United
States law; all such men then become
United States voters. Here is a second
class of United States voters, and a second
mistake of Chief Justice Waite.
	Third, the naturalized foreigner secures
his right to vote under United States law,
and cannot vote unless he first becomes a
United States citizen, or announces his in-
tention of so becoming. In Missouri, Ne-
braska, and some other States, the declara-
tion of such intention permits him to vote.
This is a State regulation, but the fact of
his United States citizenship must in some
form first exist. In the naturalized man is
a third class of United States voters. With
one and the same hand he at the same mo-
ment picks up his naturalization papers and
his ballot. It matters not what the state
law may be, the foreigner secures his vote
under United States law. And here is a

[Column 3]

third class of United States voters and a
third mistake of Chief Justice Waite.
	Fourth, the 39th or 40th Congress took a
step farther than this, passing a law that
all foreigners who had served in and been
honorably discharged from the army, should
possess the right to vote, even though they
had not previously filed intention of natur-
alization. Thus at the time of Judge
Waite's decision we already had four classes
of United States voters; the black man, the
amnestied man, the naturalized man, and
the foreigner who fought in the union
army. So you see we already possess four
distinct classes of United States voters, and
when woman demands that her right to the
use of the ballot shall be secured by United
States law, she has four distinguished
precedents, and so far as it has gone, the
United States has exercised its rightful
power. We ask that it should be consistent
with itself and secure the ballot to women.
	While theoretically denying its control
over the suffrage, the United States in
many ways besides those mentioned, prac-
tically acknowledges its possession of this
right.
	In Miss Anthony's case. She was not
prosecuted by the State of New York for
voting. That great State took no action at
all in the matter, it was the general govern-
ment which thrust itself forward and took
up the question. If the United States has
no control over the suffrage, then Miss An-
thony's trial was a clear interference of the
United States with the right of states.
And so great was this interference, it is be-
lieved a judge was especially appointed to
try her case, who left Washington with his
verdict in his pocket already written. Let
none of my audience forget this trial, for in
the future it will be looked upon as one of
the great State Trials of the world, for as
we have shown, if states have the sole con-
trol of the suffrage, there was interference
in the rights of the State of New York by
her trial; and if United States citizens of
any class have a right to be protected in the
use of the ballot, then the United States
very flagrantly and tyrannously interfered
in Miss Anthony's individual right as a
citizen of the United States.
	Then let us look at the Territory of Wyo-
ming. Much has of late been said in regard
to woman not making use of the ballot
there. I am not careful to answer that
statement. I care little about it one way or
the other, as long as her right to vote is
not interfered with. It will be time to re-
quire all women to vote when we have such
law for men; until then let each voter re-
irain from voting at his or her own option;
it is not the vital question. But there is a
point connected with woman's voting in
Wyoming that is well worthy of our con-
sideration. That is, the interference of the
United States with the concomitants of this
right. For a time the women of Wyoming
sat upon juries, and the fact was heralded
over the country that thieves, gamblers,
murderers fled the country rather than fall
into the hands of these women jurors. The
first conviction for a murder in that Terri-
tory, not committed in self-defense came
from a woman jury.
	But of late we have ceased hearing of
women jurors. And why?  Because wo-
man's sacred jury right has been interfered
with by the United States.
	The Marshal of the Territory, an officer
appointed by the United States govern-
ment, has absolutely refused to place the
names of women on the jury lists. Conse-
quently the women of Wyoming are denied
the exercise of this right by United States
power.


Whether the Marshal has been ordered to
omit the names of women, as Judge Hunt
was ordered to convict in Miss Anthony's
case, we do not know and it does not signi-
fy. The duty of the United States is none
the less clear; the territories are in an es-
pecial way the wards of the nation, and
should be protected in all territorial rights.
The Territory of Wyoming having secured
to women the exercise of their right of 
voting, it remains the duty of the general
government to protect them in the exercise
of concomitant rights, of which the jury is
one.
	This deprivation of woman's jury rights
in Wyoming is not only an United States in-
terference with her political rights, but also
an interference with her industrial rights.
It is a well-known fact that some women
earned their first independent dollar by sit-
ting in the jury box. And whatever inter-
feres with woman's industrial rights helps
to force her down, down, down, to those
depths where want of bread has forced so
many women into the gutters of shame.
This is a question of morals as well as a
question of industrial and political rights.
Every adverse touch upon a person's politi-
cal rights touches a hundred other rights
adversely.

To be continued.


