	WOMAN’S VOICE.

	After listenting to the reports of the last
General Conference, I cannot help reflecting
upon the wise providences of God with re-
gard to the Latter-day work. Who is there
among the Latter-day Saints that cannot
see the great and mighty work that eventu-
ally w[-]ll be brought about through that so
much despised principle called plural mar-
riage. How honored are the women of
the Latter-day Saints, to bear the souls of
the men and women who will build up the
kingdom of God in these last days. Not-
withstanding the power of the destroyer,
the rapid increase of children that have
been born in Zion in the last few years is a
testimony to every honest lover of truth
that “the stone the builder rejected will
become the head of the corner.”
	How careful we ought to be to train the
minds of the rising generation, to give
them a correct understanding of the duties
and obligations that will rest upon them.
Let us as mothers be alive to our responsi-
bilities, by setting them an example that is
worthy of imitation. I think our Gentile
neighbors are helping the work along a
great deal in trying to stop the practice of
plural marriage. I feel like saying, Father,
forgive them, they know not what they do.
They can never do us any harm. I believe
these things are necessary to keep us on
our guard against the hour of temptation,
and remind us of the covenants we have
made to our Heavenly Father. They can-
not realize that our spirits have been re-
served for this great Latter-day work; they
are envious toward us because they cannot,
help themselves. Our help is in the God
of Jacob; we have proved Him to be our
friend when we have been true to Him and
true to ourselves. Let us show to our ene-
mies our integrity and confidence in God
the Eternal Father, and they will hide
their faces in shame. I never trouble about
the plans and devices of the wicked against
us, for it will all recoil upon themselves,
and if they do not believe it now, if they
wait a little while then they will realize
the truth of it. Our Lord and Master said
when he was on the earth, that through
much tribulation we should enter his king-
dom. Let us as mothers in Israel never be
found, either in public or private, speaking
evil, or using any influence against the de-
signs of the Almighty, for if we do we
shall surely feel the chastening rod; and 
better it would have been for us if we had
never known for ourselves the will of God
concerning us. If we wish to receive the
reward of the faithful we must be true and
faithful ourselves; we must not stand still
and think we have done all that is required
of us, each day as long as we live in mor-
tality we will always have outside influ-
ences to contend with, until we entirely
overcome ourselves and bring our wills into
perfect sujection to the will of our Father
in Heaven. The sooner we do this the less
power our enemies will have over us. The
Lord has promised that no weapon that is
formed against us shall prosper. Sisters,
let us be thankful that our lot is cast with
the Saints of God, and let us strive to dis-
charge the duties of life honorably before
the Lord, and all will be well with us.
		SARAH LAYTON.
Kaysville, April 21, 1879.


﻿THE new Secretary for the Territory of
Utah Arthur L. Thomas arrived in this
city on the 12th inst. He took the oath of
office the following day. The oath was ad-
ministered by Judge Emerson.


