THE HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHIL-
DREN.—This subject has been laid before and
received the unqualified approbation of the
authorities of the Church as an enterprise
worthy the attention and support of all
Latter-day Saints. The plan of construction,
organization and arrangements will be soon
drawn up and presented for consideration
and approval, after which the several
stakes of Zion will be solicited to take shares
in the enterprise. We trust the people
will give due consideration to the matter,
remembering that no one knows in this 
sphere of uncertainty how soon such an
institution may be a place of greatest need
and benefit to him (or her.) It will be a 
place where each settlement can look for-
ward to for instruction to students desiring
to prepare themselves to be a source of
benefit and comfort to their sisters and also
as a center where those desiring to obtain
a knowledge of the art of nursing will find
a place of instruction.
	A special meeting was called, during the 
Quarterly Conference of the sisters at Og-
den Friday evening the 9th inst. at which
time the subject was well talked up by
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. S. M. Kimball,
David M. Stuart, C. F. Middleton, coun-
selor to Pres. Peery of that stake and Dr.R.
B. Pratt whose remarks and suggestions
were especially calculated to impress her
hearers with good ideas upon this im-
portant subject. An encouraging interest
was manifested in the project and a prom-
ise of assistance with faith, prayers and 
MEANS. An awakened spirit is being
manifested in many of the settlements
upon this subject which is to be hoped will
extend to all and result in a complete suc-
cess to the undertaking.


IT is one of the proofs of the indestructi-
ble religious nature of man that it is easier
to rob him of his liberty than his conscience,
even though it be a superstitious one; easier
to despoil him of his gods than of his 
goods, though he would so often gain by
the loss; easier to enslave his body than
coerce his mind.—Henry Rogers.


