PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR

Delivered an address expressing the most
kindly feelings, and lofty sentiments.
	We are not assembled here to-day for any
other purposes than those of peace. We have
no quarrel with our Government; we have no
quarrel with our Judiciary, nor with the
United States; we have no quarrel with any
people upon the face of the earth. Our mis-
sion is, “Peace on earth and good will to all’
men.” And although men have [-]ought to in-
terfere with our religious faith and to control
our consciences, it is understood by us that
God and His laws have never been palatable
to the great mass of mankind generally. And
therefore if men in the different ages have had
to endure persecutions and prosecutions for the
sake of the eternal truths of God, it is nothing
strange that we should have to partake a little
of the same thing.
	We have met here, however, to welcome our
friend and brother, President Daniel H Wells,
to our midst; to evince a feeling that exists
and permeates among the Latter-day Saints
and that dwells in their bosoms, as well as in
the bosoms of all honorable men, namely, that
of maintaining and sustaining their friends
that dare be true to God, to their country and
its institutions, to their religion and their
friends; who have the moral courage and dare
to act upon the principles of honor in the face
of narrow prejudice, proscriptions, penalties,
and the evils which even honorable men have
to meet in life, frequently, from the hands of
those whose positions ought to raise them
above the narrow limits of bigotry and in-
tolerance; and knowing what the feelings of
the Latter-day Saints were in relation to those
things, we wished them to be gathered to-
gether to evince that respect to General Wells
which, independent of his honorable position
for years in our midst, his conduct merits. We
wish to evince a disposition to sustain correct
principles under all circumstances.
* * * * * *
	Do not then, my brethren, let us have any
quarrel with these people. Our mission is
“peace on earth and good will to men.” And
if men are in error we will try our utmost to
correct them; if they are weak and ignorant
or tyrannical, we will try to bear with
them and then leave them in the hands of
God, for we can afford to wait. There is a God
that rules in the heavens. There is an old say-
ing, that “the mills of the gods grind slowly,
but that they grind exeeding fine.” We can
wait the time, the Lord’s just time in relation
to th[-]se matters, placing ourselves in His
hands. We appeal to the great God for re-
dress, and let all Israel say “amen!” (the vast
concourse of people re ponded, “amen!”) We
can afford to treat all people right whether
they can us or not.
* * * * * *
	We will not try to place ourselves in op-
position to the government, but stand shoulder
to shoulder with all true patriots and lovers of
their country and its institutions; as long as

[Column 2]
there are any to maintain .these, principles we
will be with them and on the side of right.
Amen. (Great applause.)	
	After the speeches were over there was music
by a martial band, “See the conquering hero
comes.” Col. John Sharp, of the committee,
said there had been preparations made to have
a cold lunch in the Tabernacle for invited
guests and visitors from the country. Benedic-
tion by Elder Joseph F. Smith.
	The bands were playing while the people
dispersed. About 10,000 people took part in
the procession, and 15,000 more were spectators.
	In the evening Gen. Wells was serenaded at
his home by the Tabernacle Choir and Scandi-
navian vocal club. Pres. John Taylor, Elder
Joseph F. Smith, the Committee of ladies and
other frends called upon him and participated
in the enjoyment of a pleasant social enter-
tainment with the family.
	The day was a most remarkable one, and the
memory of that day's occurrences will live in
the hearts of the Latter-day Saints to the end
of time. It is impossible to do justice to it in
the few paragraphs we are able to publish, but
it will be written of in story and in song, and
will be a theme worthy the author.


