HINTS FOR YOUNG MOTHERS.

	The three requisites for babies are plenty of
sleep, plenty of food, plenty of flannel. The say-
ing that man is a bundle of habits is as true of
babies as it is of grown children. If the infant
is accustomed from its birth to sleep from six
o'clock at night till daylight, the habit of carly
sleep will be formed, and the mother may have
all the evenings to herself.
	If the baby sleeps all night, a long morning
nap will naturally come about dinner-time, after
which the child, except when very young, should
be kept awake until six o'clock. Preseverance
in this routine will soon result in securing quiet
evenings for both the child and the parent.
	Some mothers have a long season every morn-
ing and every night in getting the baby asleep.
They rock them and sing to them till Morpheus
enfolds them. With most children this is entirely
unnecessary. An infant can be accustomed, by
a few days' training, to go to sleep itself for a
morning nap as well as for a longer rest at night.
	A mother has duties to herself as well as to her
offspring. While she should exercise a constant
care in securing its utmost physical comfort, she
should secure rest and recreation for herself. In
no other way can she keep fresh in feeling and


buoyant in spirit. Nothing is so wearing as the
unceasing tending of a fretful baby.
	Every means should be employed to aid the
child in taking care of itself and giving as little
trouble as possible. It may learn in babyhood to
amuse itself with toys or by watching movements
going on around it.
	Fashion as well as good sense requires infants'
dresses to be made with long sleeves, and high
in the neck. Fashion requires children of all ages
to be warmly clad. Flannel should encase the
whole body, with the exception of the head and
hands. The fruitful cause of colic in infants is
the nakedness of their necks and arms.
	Regularity in feeding is as important as either
of the other requisites. Babies cry as often from
being fed too frequently as from hunger. Let the
mother obey the dictates of common sense in this
matter and not force food into a baby's stomach
for every little complaint it makes.
	Children of three or four years old need much
more sleep than they usually have. For irritable
and nervous children sleep it is a specific, and it
can be secured to them only by the force of habit.
Many light forms of disease may be cured by
keeping a child in a uniform temperature and in
quiet. Let the young mothers who read this
article experiment upon these few suggestions,
and we are sure they will have many an hour in
the nursery for reading and thought.—Ex.


NEITHER days nor lives can be made
holy by doing nothing in them. The best
prayer at the beginning of a day is, that we
may not lose its moments; and the best
grace before meat is, the consciousness that
we have justly earned our dinner.—Ruskin.


[Column 1]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office and Residence—11th Ward.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, and diseases of
women.

