THREE RAIN-DROPS.

	I sat at my window one morning,
		And heard the sweet splash of the rain;
	While the musings of things long-forgotten
		The musical tinkling refrain
Chimed in with my dreaming, and, haply, a thought
Embodied the lesson the rain-drops taught.

	Three crystal dew-drops were descending,
		Whispering and dancing with mirth;
	"Dear sisters," said one, "though together,
		How soon will we now reach the earth;
Sent down by cloud-mother to land or to sea,
And where, oh, where will our resting place be?"

	They sped down the wind-path, and, parting,
		Each one went a different way;
	One, sorrowing, felt her bright beauty
		Grow dim with the mud where she lay.
"Ah me," sighed the rain-drop, "and is this the last
Of all I had dreamed and hoped in the past?"

	Another fell with sweet trembling
		On the glossy green leaf of a tree.
	"You need me, bright leaf, and I'm content
		To give all my strength unto thee,
For all I asked of the future was this—
To give life to earth with my life-giving kiss."

	The last, on a velvet rose resting,
		Glistened with pride, and softly said—
	"O sweet, I am adding to beauty a charm;
		How happy am I that we're wed!"
While deeper, with shame, sank far down in the ground
The rain-drop so soiled with the home she had found,

	But earth to her bosom enfolding
		The dew, whispered, 'God knoweth all;
	And he will accept thee, though tarnished
		With filth of the street at the fall."
So; meekly content with her lot, she passed through
the changes that come to earth-moistened dew,

	When soon she came laughing and singing
		To the spring bubbling up near the hill,
	And sparkling with joy kissed the pale cups
		Of lily-bells close to the rill.
Thus; chasing her sisters with frolicsome glee;
She gains the riv[-]r and sweeps to the sea.

	When the dew-drop was sadly wishing
		Such honor had never been guessed;
	But experience had given the power
		To live for and love but the best.
Have I not felt dimmed by the mud on mo cast?
Have patience, God rules, He'll right all at last.
