HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE SENATE Judiciary Committee consid-
ered the nomination of Corbin as Chief Jus-
tice for Utah Territory, and decided to report
adversely, unless the president should with-
draw the nomination.

	THE CASE of Elder G[-]orge Reynolds, in
which the Latter day Saints are so deeply in-
terested, has recently been receiving direct at-
tention from the Supreme Court of the United
States. The decision is, "And that this cause
be and the same is hereby remanded to the
said Supreme Court (Utah), with the instruc-
tions to cause the sentence of the District Court
to be set aside and a new one entered on the
verdict in all respects like that before imposed,
except so far as it requires the imprisonment
to be at hard labor."

	THE "CARTHAGE Republican" (an Illinois
paper) states that Mrs. Emma Bidamon, died
in Nauvoo on the 30th of April. Among the
Latter-day Saints, in days gone by, she was
familiarly known as "Sister Emma," wife oi
the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was consid-
ered rather a remarkable woman, possessing
great influence and unusually strong charac-
teristics, which if properly directed, as in the 
ea[-]ly days of this Church, would have made
her name illustrious in the history of the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints down to the end
of time.

	THIS MORNING our beloved sisters Pres. E.
R. Snow and Pres. M. I. Horne start on a tour
to some of the settlements in Sanpete and Se-
vier Counties. They will meet with the Re-
lief Societies and Y. L. M. I. A in the settle-
ments upon their way, transacting such busi-
ness with these institutions as may be essential
and practicable; also organizing branches of
the Deseret Silk Association and Primary As-
sociations. They expect to reach Richfield to
attend the Stake Conference, which will be
held on the 24th and 25th of this month.

	DR. ELLIS R. Sh'pp has just returned from
a professional visit in the North, and by per-
sonal observation has become cognizant of the 
increasing need of woman physicians—women
thoroughly edu[-]ate and trained for the impor-
tant duties of attending the sick and ailing,
especially of their own sex. She desires to use
her energies in meeting this demand by giving

[Column 2]
instructions both theoretical and practical.
The course will consist of two terms, six
months each, with five lessons a week. The
first lecture will be given on the 26th inst.
Any further information can be obtained by
correspondence, or personal communication at
her residence 11th Ward, Salt Lake City.

	WE HAVE learned by letter of the sudden
death of a young lady whom we met and
formed a pleasant acquaintance with while in
Washington. Miss Minnie Nason died early
in April last of congestion of the lungs. At
noon she was bright and happy, and between
five and six o'clock she was dead; she took a
chill, and congestion of the lungs followed so
quickly she was gone in a few moments. She
was indeed a lovely girl, graceful, sensitive,
refined, and possessed that charming good na-
ture that imparted a kindly feeling to all. We
sympathize deeply with her mother, aunts and
relatives, for we know how deep the wound
must be, but we can only say to them, believe
"Our Father doeth all things well,"

	WE LEFT this city Wednesday morning,
April 30, in company with Miss E. R. Snow,
President of L. D. S. womens' organiza-
tions. We traveled through some of the
settlements North, in Utah and a part of
Idaho called Malad Valley, to visit the sisters'
societies in that vicinity. At Brigham City
Mrs. H. A. Snow, Pres. of R. S. Box Elder
Stake, her counselor S. P. Booth, Sec. Mary E.
Snow and Pres. Harriet Huntsucker joined our 
party. Together we visited several towns in
Box Elder and Oneida Counties, re-organized
two Relief Societies and organized five Primary
Ass[-]ciations. We returned to Ogden in time
to attend the Quarterly Conference of Weber
Stake held May 9th and 10th in the Ogden
Tabernacle. We were all most cordially
welcomed and hospitably entertained; the
brethren and sisters came in wagons from one
settlement to another to hear the sisters talk.
We intend to publish notes made during our
absence, but have not space in this issue.

	THIS NUMBER completes the seventh volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. This little paper
has now become widely known, and has en-
tered many a home where a Mormon woman
would scarcely be received at all. It is a power
in the hands of Latter-day Saint women,
which should be wielded for good. The EXPO-
NENT speaks brave words for women in encour-
aging them in the elevation of their sex. It is
also a medium through which the organizations
among the sisters are represented and thus be-
come interested in each others welfare and aid
and assist mutually in sustaining home indus-
tries, and in educating the youth of Zion in all
that pertains to practical usefulness and spirit-
ual culture. Sisters, you who appreciate your
position, you cannot afford to be without the
EXPONENT. It will silently strengthen you
mothers, sisters and daughters in your labors
of love. We have ample opportunity of know-
ing that this little paper is doing a good mis-
sionary work for Mormonism. We trust our
patrons will renew their subscriptions prompt-
ly.


FOUR ACCOMPLISHED sisters, Clara, Hilda,
Ellen and Henriette Montalba—of Spanish
blood—live in London. The youngest,
Henriette, is a charming sculptor; the other
three are successful painters,—Miss Clara,
a pupil of Isabey, being especially remark-
able for her venetian scenes. There young
ladies are friends and favorites of the Prin-
cess Louise, and Misses Hilda and Henri-
ette Montalba have crossed the ocean at her
invitation, and are now visiting her at Ri-
deau Hall.


