	SPRING TIME AND VIOLETS.

	The sweet breath of the young maiden
Spring is on the air, and her pathway is
strewn with flowers, rare. She has come
in all her blushing beauty, and our hearts
go out to her in cheery welcome. The
whole machinery of nature is in motion;
all that was still and drear, gloomy and dis-
mal, in its outward, aspect, warms into
vigor and life at her approach. The swal-
lows fly back to the same old places in the
eaves, the porches and balconies, where be-
foretime they reared their fledgelings,, and
twitter away as familiarly as though they
knew the places and people rejoiced to see
them again. The robin sings in his sweet-
est strain to welcome the light.footed maid-
en in her flowery garb and fresh green
mantle, as she softly glides along o'er val-
ley, hill and plain, breathing fragrance ev-
erywhere, and revivifying earth-life in all
its varied forms. Her drapery is fringed
with evergreen, and fluttering white in the
breeze and sifting round her in cloudy
mists are the apple-blossoms the very per-
fection of sweetest perfume. Violets peep
up from their lowly beds, too modest to
open wide the[-]r bright eyes, but linger in
the shade of the soft grasses, till they hea

[Column 2]
the voices of the brooklets murmuring, the
chorus of the forest birds tumultuously
trilling glad notes, and then the bright-
eyed violets whisper softly to the forget-
me-nots she approaches and the gentle
breeze faintly wafts their sweet odors, like
a messenger of welcome. Daisies and lilies
nod to each other and bend gracefully as
she passes by.
	All nature gives evidence of some great
change, some life-giving power that mor-
tals comprehend not, but name it mnst
have, and what title could be more signifi-
cant of the processes that are going forward
in earth's realms than Spring?
	Gentle maiden, thou hast been most gra-
cious in thy favors, for earlier than they
were wont the roses bud and lilacs bloom;
profusely hast thou scattered garlands of
woodland flowers and wreaths of trailing
evergreens; loyally didst thou bequeath
thy heritage of bloom in the merry May-
day festivities. And the birds, who ever
wait thy coming and watch for the first
tender leaves ere they begin to weave their
nests, are pouring forth their highest notes
not only in the orchard and meadow, but
"in the heart of the dim old woods."
	Many are the pleasures the pretty maid-
en brings and scatters round our pathway;
how joyously we welcome her fair young
face, on which the sunshine lingers long
and tenderly. No burning heat, no scorch-
ing rays, but subdued by the gentleness of
her modest manner, the sun is like a bashful
young lover who takes his cue from the
freaks and fancies of his lady-love. Beau-
teous maiden, we welcome thee to our moun-
tain home; we are better for thy coming, for
all things brighten in the sunshine of thy
smiles. We greet thee proudly! for thou
bringest us royal blessings—in thy hand is
the wand of enchantment, that clothes the 
whole [-]arth in freshness and beauty, and
opens up the fountains of water, that give life
to all animate nature. We talk to thee, and
thou answerest us in the voices of birds, and
trees, and rills, and flowers; these speak to
the heart pathetically, and impart a con-
sciousness of the inherent germ that warms
iuto being through auspicious influences,
but stinted and chilled by winter's frost
and snow lies dormant. Thou teachest us
many lessons, and thy methods are simple
and grand, and we may learn of thee if we
will, for thou art most gentle towards earth's
children. There's not a footprint thou hast
made but bears the impress of a living
power inherited from God, the genuine
stamp of Him, Who lives and moves in all
things by his infinity.
	Who does not love the Spring and the
crown of glory that she wears so regally?
Let me see, her jewels are the flowers—the
violet, it is suggestive of modesty; the
forget-me-not is memory; the rose of love;
the pansy of thoughts, be they sad or gay;
the water lily of grace; all these and many
more she brings to the laps of the fresh
young maidens who wait for her with eager
anticipation, knowing that she has been a
long journey far over the seas. Year after
year our Father sends us this sweet messen-
ger, and should we be forgetful of the ten-
der love and devotion manifested in the
harmony and order of the seasons? And
while we sew the seeds in springtime, let
us engraft into our hearts the moral lesson
of good seed sown in good ground, that
shall spring up and yield an abundant har-
vest in our hearts and the hearts of our
children, and thank the Great Creator for
the beautiful methods of instruction in wis-
dom, faith and hope vouchsafed to us
through the poetry of Springtime.
