GEN. D. H. WELLS.

	"I will simply say that I should feel exceed-
ingly sorry for myself if I felt, for a single mo-
ment, that any of my friends supposed, or
could entertain the idea, that I could do other-
wise than I have done. I would be sorry for
myself to feel, or to even think for a moment,
that I could swerve from my integrity to the
covenant which I have had the privilege, yes,
the inestimable privilege, of making with my
God. I can well afford to suffer bonds, fines
and imprisonment, and even death if necessa-
ry—which by the way has no terrors for me—

[Column 3]
but to forfeit my fellowship with you, my
brethren, or a single particle of that confidence
which is reposed in me by the people of God,
through violating the sacred and holy cove-
nants we have entered into, I could not afford.
That would indeed be a source of sorrow and
regret, not only through time but for all eter-
nity.
	My treatment at the hands of the United
States officers during my imprisonment has
been civil and courte[-]us.
	I feel happy and well, and am rejoiced to
meet you, though I did not expect any such
demonstration as this. I thank you heartily;
but not, however, so much for myself as the
expression of your feelings to sustain the prin-
ciple. I knew that you are my friends, and
that you are the friends of the Most High God;
and I pray that I may ever be worthy of your
confidence and esteem, and be the friend of the
Lord. I will not detain you; but in the fulness
of my heart I say, God bless you forever; and
again thank you for this expression of your
kindness and love."

	Gen. Wells entered the carriage with Pres.
Taylor, the most spirited music was played by
the bands in attendance, and the cortege start-
ed for the city at a fast trot. On East Temple
Street were formed in order the Relief Socie-
ties, Sunday Schools, Improvement Associa-
tions, High Priests, Seventies, Elders, Bishops,
Priests, Teachers, Deacons; the City Fire Bri-
gade in uniform, Scandinavian and German
citizens besides a vast concourse of people, on
the streets,and filling the porches and balconies,
and standing on the roofs. Stores were closed
and hundreds of flags, banners, and stream-
ers, with appropriate mottoes and sentiments
fluttered in the breeze, giving enthusiasm to
the populace. It was an immense gathering;
never was there such a day in Israel. Over three
hundred carriages were in the procession, be-
sides the long line of people on foot. They pro-
ceeded to the large Tabernacle, which was soon
filled in every part with people, and many thou-
sands could not gain admittance. A magnificent
sight, never to be forgotten by those who were
present, Seven bands of music were seated in
the choir; banners, flags and mottoes were ar-
ranged around the gallery; and when Gen.
Wells appeared upon the stand the cheers were
deafening; ladies waved their handkerchiefs,
banners and streamers moving, added to the
general enthusiasm, which for a few moments
was unrestrained. After inspiring music by
the several bands, the congregation was called
to order by Pres. Taylor, and Elder F. D.
Richards offered up, in behalf of all assembled,
a most eloquent, inspiring and significant
prayer, dedicating the meeting and all assem-
bled there to the Lord. Closed by saying,
May the doings of this day be sanctified to the
good of many people; and we ascribe all honor,
praise and power to Thee O God now and for-
ever, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer.
Amen.

