[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Lo, I am With You Alway, Even Unto the End of the World" by Mary Grant Judd]

visiting teachers), inspirational sayings of the Savior. Twenty-three messages in all have been given. Now, with the twentyfourth, with which we conclude this series, "Our Savior Speaks," it seems desirable to have left with those visited the following appropriate declaration of the Master, "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world" (Matt. 28:20).
What reassurance and comfort, in this day of perplexity, to know that this promise is to each one of us who is willing to keep Christ's To leave a concluding message of hope and comfort in all of the commandments. In a time of fear and uncertainty we may have as-. Surance, for he has said: "Let not your heart be troubled: neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27).
These words are to be found in the fourteenth chapter of John, one of the most impressive and beautiful chapters in the whole of the New Testament. We suggest that the beauty of this chapter be pointed out and that the following excerpts from it be read in the homes visited as a fitting conclusion to this series of visiting teacher messages: In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you I will come again, and receive LESSON DEPARTMENT you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.... I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it. If ye love me, keep my commandments.... I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: 125 because I live, ye shall live also.... Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. "Lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world." Work Tleeting—The Art of Homemaking (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at