[Vol38 | February 1951 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Board | Title: Relief Society Bulletin Cover and Masthead]
Page 71

From Near and Far

Fae Decker Dix, author of "A Christmas Gift for Teacher," wife of D. C. Dix, and mother of two children, is a former school teacher now acting as co-ordinator for community councils and other adult education programs in Iron County, Utah. She has served for many years as literature class leader in Cedar City First Ward and as a teacher in other auxiliary organizations of the Church. She has written many poems and pageants, and much of her work has been published in poetry magazines and in Church publications. She was awarded the Deseret News Christmas Story prize in 1936 for her offering "Empty Stocking."

I wish to express my thanks for the fine work done by The Relief Society Magazine. I find that too often we take things for granted and do not express our thanks and appreciation of the Church. I enjoy the variety of things that can be found in The Relief Society Magazine, because this is evidence of the well-rounded life of Latter-day Saint women. I'm not the only one to give praise to the Magazine, because I know of a small branch here in England which gets a few copies of the Magazine and each copy goes from hand to hand until everyone in the branch has read it. There isn't much left of the Magazine when they get through, but each copy shows how well it has been used.
—Elder Robert William Smith
Halifax, Yorkshire, England

I have just read the formula for homemade soap in the November issue of the Magazine (page 758). May I make an addition? If one cup of Clorox and three tablespoons of powdered borax are added to the soap while it is cooking, the soap will be whiter and there will be no smell to it, even if rancid grease is used. I also add a finely ground bar of good perfumed toilet soap.
—Mrs. L. H. Merriam, Grace, Idaho

I have taken the Magazine for many years, and it has given me many happy hours. I love every part of it, and the sermons from our great leaders have given us faith and understanding.
—Mrs. Genevieve Moreton, Pasadena, California

The brief message by Caroline Eyring Miner in the November issue of the Magazine (page 773) should be put in a frame and hung before us at all times. Our ultimate acceptance of the words of Jesus, without reservations, is my desire. It is my prayer that in time all men will come to know that the kingdom of God is to be found in the brotherhood of men.
—Laura R. Merrill, Logan, Utah

My mother not long ago having been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine, I had the pleasure of reading and enjoying it very much, especially the poetry, as reading and writing poetry is one of my favorite pastimes.
—Melva Cox, Cane Beds Valley, Moccasin, Arizona

I do so much appreciate The Relief Society Magazine—a gift from a dear friend. To me the most challenging and thrilling things I ever heard are the stories of the power of God in the lives of those who contribute to it.
—Mrs. Muriel Goodnight
Mesquite, Nevada

I was president of a ward Relief Society when we had the Woman's Exponent and also when the first issue of The Relief Society Magazine was published, and have taken it ever since. I have found the Magazine to be a great help and it is so dear to me that my home would not be complete without it. I have had a number of the Magazines bound and have used them for birthday and Christmas gifts and my family use them as references for lessons in other organizations, for readings and poems, and for other purposes. I very much enjoy the "From Near and Far" page.
—Mrs. Janet M. Ott,
Tropic, Utah

I am proud to be a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine (see November, 1950, page 731) because I think the Magazine is one of the finest of publications.
—Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah

Your "College grade" courses in education, offered in RELIEF SOCIETY use eminent textbooks in every field:

Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior
Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage
Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00

Visiting Teachers Message: Our Savior Speaks
Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE
L. D. S. Missionary Edition $11.00; Others $1.75 to $20.00

Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking
Reference: "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING," by Constance Talbot $2.98

Literature: The Literature of England
Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND VOL. I by Woods, Watt and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75

1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE:
Paradise Lost
Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes
John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison
Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell

Social Science: "The Progress of Man"
Reference: "THE PROGRESS OF MAN," by Joseph Fielding Smith (Temporarily out of print)

— All prices are subject to change without notice —

Deseret Book Company
44 East South Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD

Belle S. Spafford - President
Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor
Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Leone G. Layton
Lillie C. Adams
Christine H. Robinson
Mary G. Judd
Blanche B. Stoddard
Louise W. Madsen
Alberta H. Christensen
Anna B. Hart
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Nellie W. Neal
Edith S. Elliott
Leone O. Jacobs
Josie B. Bay
Mildred B. Eyring
Florence J. Madsen
Mary J. Wilson
Alta J. Vance
Helen W. Anderson

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor - Marianne C. Sharp
Associate Editor - Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager - Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 38 FEBRUARY 1951 No. 2