[Music: New Hymns, Anthems, and Standard Literature About Music by Florence J. Madsen]

music, the other arts and culture. New or Unfamiliar Hymns L. D. S. Hymns (Green book): pp 3 (transpose to B flat); 13, 27 (transpose to C); 91, 115, 227, 273, 349. Deseret Sunday School Songs: pp. 10 (transpose to A flat); 94, 135, 210 (transpose to A flat or G); 223 (transpose to D flat) 241, 249, 287. Hymns (New L. D. S. Hymn Book) pp. 5 (Christmas); 22, 32, 35, 38, 53, 59, 63, 72, 113, 335; 361.
There are various ways of transposing music.
Perhaps the easiest way is through a combination of letter and interval (association of two tones). For example: if the original melody is in the key of G Major and reads g-a-b-d and you wish it ANTHEMS, (Three-part, S. S. A.) Come Gracious Spirit (Chorals) The Birthday of a King (Christmas) Build Thee More Stately Mansions Sheep and Lambs May Safely Graze Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes The Twenty-Third Psalm +.- How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings ANTHEMS (Two-part, S. A., not difficult) The Good Shepherd 2 2..2-.----:--s-0+-++ God Bless Our Land: ae I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked The Lord Is My Shepherd a bese Grateful, O Lord, Am I o0 --. Es-seoe--o-0eAt the Cradle (Christmas) - the hymn. Transposed-a whole step (major second) lower, change the key signature from G Major (one sharp) to F Major (one flat). The melody g-a-b-d will now read f-g-a-c.
When possible sing the hymns in two parts (soprano and alto); or, in three parts, if so arranged. Be sure that the tempo (speed of rhythm) is not: too fast for the singing group.
Transpose hymns that are too high to a more suitable key. The accompanist should make a copy of the hymns in the new key and have it ready for use when needed.
Before practicing a hymn, and, if the necessary information is available, tell briefly something about the author and the. Composer.
Also draw attention to the message and philosophy present in the text, Emphasize important words and sentences.
Have a good reader from the group. 'read the words before practicing Have the accompanist play it through.
Note the style and character of the music.
Sing the first stanza.
Single out and practice difficult phrases.
Sing the complete hymn.
Observe all punctuation and expression marks.
Make the practice period an enjoyable experience. COMPOSER PUBLISHER —_ Bach-McCurdy — Boosey & Hawkes aNeidlinger G. Schirmer —. Andrews G. Schirmer =Bach-Trehayne ' G.
Schirmer eS Beethoven-Wilson Lorenz —Malotte G. Schirmer _— Smart Presser Co. _overatlBarri G.
Schirmer wwenallllKountz G. Schirmer -O'Hara G. Schirmer ———Smart G.
Schirmer sonalRoma Witmark E. C. Schirmer LESSON DEPARTMENT Use the same procedure for practicing and learning the anthems as suggested for the hymns. Books FAULKNER, What We Music BARTHOLOMEW, The Relation. Of Music to Psychology PYPER, Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns PRATT, The New Encyclopedia of Music and Musicians SEYMOUR, What Music Can Do For You (Philosophy of Music) LINDO, The Art of Accompanying WODELL, Choir and Chorus Conducting STEINER, The Music of the Bible SWISHER, Music in Worship Hear In WEDGE, Ear-training and Sight-singing (Volumes I and II) "CEHRKENS, Music Notation Terminology and These books may be ordered from the following Salt Lake City music dealers: Beesley Music Company, 70
South Main. Daynes Music Company, 45-47
South Main. Glen Bros. Music Company, 74
South Main. Summerhays Music Company, 21
East lst South. 4 4 @ 4
She Perishables C. Cameron Johns I am a silver note And the silence conspites against me. I am a fragile wing And the wind is my foe. I am a scented flower And the thick air engulfs me. I am a cold black stone And the hill-sped waters erode me. I am a single breath And the deeps of earth aspire me. 139 3—PartSacred Choruses for Singing e Mothers baerCM6603__—s If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments—Madsen...20 enoeees- 8943
Hear My Prayer—James 15 aaa3912-05984
How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings—Smart 16 oncceuill8723 I Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara -..-.-- 20 ances8942 I Will Thank Thee, O Lord.12 - ttl962
Invocation—Moore -- «16 oie My Soul Is Athirst for God— Stickles 2 cccccceeeeeeeeeeeee a5. CM650 O Day of Rest and Gladness —Schumann 15 aceon337 O, Shepherd of Israel— Morrison (SSAA) 1 —6221
Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes— Beethoven 16
Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. (J On Approval O) Charge (] Money Enclosed Bre.-.. Ece-..--ce-ccee--nneveee-esevesevscessnceccennceneneeesseescennene City & Starter ncn. N. Eecconsscccesssennsnsensnensenesemene FIRST OF ALL— RELIABILITY Daunes 45-47 SOUTH XK ¢ MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH 
140 
Miss Breech's Boy (Continued from page 101) There stood Butch in his warm ted jacket and overalls. At his side was Chippy, who evidently thought amicable relations had been resumed with the woman in the white cottage.
Without a word Butch walked into the room, wet galoshes and all.
Chippy followed, | his tail frisking merrily. Miss Breech shouted at them: "Butch, you get out of here. And take that pesky dog along.
Look at my clean carpet! Don't you know better than to walk in here like that? Get out!"
Without a word Butch turned and started for the door.
Chippy had left at the first angry tone.
Butch slowly walked across the porch and down the steps.
Only when he was on the walk did Miss Breech look up from her angry stare at the muddy wet tracks on her living room rug. 'Then she saw what she had been too angry to notice before. Under Butch's coat and protruding in the rear of his stocky little body was a little artificial Christmas tree. "Oh," she gasped. Have I done?" — Grabbing her big woolen shawl, she hastily set out for her neighbor's house.
When she knocked on the door, Butch's mother opened it.
Butch was standing by the door to the kitchen, big tears streaming down his face.
Chippy was gently licking Butch's one free hand that "Oh, what hung by his side, while the other - still was helping to hold up the little tree under his coat. "Come in, Miss Breech," Butch's © mother said. "I hope Butch did not annoy you.
When he found out you did not have a tree, nothing would do him but he must take ~over his own little tree that Aunt Mary sent him. We have the other big tree, and he thought you wouldn't have a real Christmas, if you didn't have a tree." Miss Breech cried, "Oh, Butch," and ran to him. She gathered him in her arms, dog, tree, and all. "Oh, Butch, you bring that tree right over to my house and we'll put it up right now." | Butch's tears disappeared like magic. A smile that exposed every absent tooth in his head was on his face as Miss Breech clasped his sweaty little hand in hers and led him out the door. "We'll be back after while," she said to Butch's mother. "Come on, Chippy,' she called, "you're coming, too."
Such goings-on as there were in _Miss Breech's house that night!
Popcorn was popped and paper decorations were pasted.
When the last little trinket was in place and the lovely silver star was atop the tree, Miss Breech sat down in her big chair with Butch on her lap and read, as she had on so many days at school, "'I'was the Night before Christmas," as a tired little boy rested his head against her © shoulder, and an equally tired little dog looked up at them in perplexed acceptance of his new role. After Butch and Chippy had taken a somewhat belated departure, Miss Breech straightened up her living room once more. She didn't feel lonely at all; in fact, she MISS BREECH'S BOY was humming "Up On the Houseop, Click, Click, Click," as she straightened the runner on the table under the little tree. It was then she discovered what she had been too busy to note before.
Under the tree lay a little parcel; clumsily tied in colored paper and tinseled nbbon. She did not open it.
Instead she did what she had always done with her children's gifts. She carefully placed the package on the tree, to be opened in the morning. "Bless his little heart," she murmured softly to herself. "Bless his little heart!" A Key to the Occurrences of History (Continued from page 90) man; to cause the world to beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks, make the nations of the earth dwell in peace, and to bring about the millennial glory, when the earth shall yield its increase, resume its paradisean glory, and become as the garden of the Lord.
Then he tells us in simple and understandable terms how to achieve this glorious objective. As a church and a people it behooves us to be wise, and to seek to know the will of God, and then be willing to do it. If Enoch, Abraham, Moses and the children of Israel, and all God'speople were saved by keeping the commandments of God, we, if saved at all, shall be saved upon the same principle.
Finally a statement from the Prophet that I wish could be framed and kept before us as a motto every day of our lives: "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be
141 PRESERVE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINES Have the valuable information contained therein readily available for easy access permanently bound. TheDeseret News Press 40
Richards Street Salt Lake City 1, Utah
BEESLEY MUSIC COMPANY
Utah's Pioneer Music House presents Relief Society Special Program Music for Sunday Evening, March 4, 1951 THEME: If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments, S. S. A., by Florence J. Madsen 20c Suggested song for carrying out the theme: If With All Your Hearts, S. S. A., by Mendelssohn-Harris Order now on the convenient order blank below: rer rrr itt reer trite rete itr t rrr i errr rrr ry BEESLEY MUSIC CO. 70
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send following to: I adnan savscnceornnsonesensosnsensasnnassevsnnisrcoseonseerosees Address _. Enclosed find f@uilttence ee ae Pa Please charge to Adres ---. Cceccceeceeceeeeecececsceecceceeecccceesesecaccecsecencee: Copies: ee If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments, at 20c per copy i f With All Your Hearts, at 15¢ per; copy: (No Postage Necessary) PET Torte Tree er rt rT ret rrr TTT tT ert Titi irtr Tr ry ory BEESLEY MUSIC Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 
142  — ————— Tf Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments" BY FLORENCE J. MADSEN and all Music suggested for Relief Society Singing Mothers and for Special Programs. MUSIC-N-RECORDS SELDON N. HEAPS, Lessee with Summerhays Music Co., Inc. 21
East First South SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God" (The Progress of Man, page 448).
That is the magic key to the occurrences of history that can help you throughout your three year study of these fine chapters by Brother Joseph Fielding Smith. _ President George Albert Smith has often taught us how to use this key. He has what he calls a "formula for happiness." "Happiness is what we are all seeking, and it is what our Father in heaven desires for us. "I think the finest recipe that I could give to obtain happiness would be: Keep the commandments of the Lord.
That is easy to: remember, and if we will do that, we may be sure of success. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the only code of conduct whereby prosperity, peace and happiness may be preserved" (The Improvement Era, January 1950, Pp. 13, 43).. God bless you all, that you may obtain that abiding happiness. For the Strength of the Hills (Continued from page 96) I have a dance with visiting royalty?" "If you happen to mean me— yes," she answered, hoping that she looked much calmer than she felt. She slipped into his arms, trying to decide whether it was his manner that made her temperature appear to rise, or if it was all within herself.
Were her pulses really throbbing, or did she only imagine it? No country boy, she decided haughtily, was going to make her act like a stammering schoolgirl. No, indeed. To her chagrin, she was practically a silent schoolgirl, while he quipped and wise-cracked, and left her at the end of an all-toobrief dance with an absurd feeling of standing about in a vacuum. (To be continued) "In the Twinkling of a Toe" (Continued from page 112) MADPCE nodded. "I guess it does need fixing up. I guess I haven't cared enough about keeping it up-to-date." "Oh, Grandmother! Would I like to! And would I love having the girls come then, sometimes! Can we really?" "IN THE TWINKLING OF A TOE" So that's it. Guessed! "I don't know why not. We'll get that window fixed right away, before winter sets in. The rest—the inside things—we could do as we get time.
Could by yourself, if that's." "Doing it together would be more fun. Grandmother, you know, last night when you danced, you were so cute and I was so proud of you! I had a sort of funny thought. Here I've lived with you more than half my life and never knew you!" | "Grandmother, you're just—wonderful! 'In the twinkling of a toe!'" Again the exuberant laughter trilled. "How come we haven't understood each other before?" "T don't know, dear.
Maybe we had to grow up to each other. We might make a project of getting acquainted."
Colleen giggled. "We'll take that one on, Grandmother. I'll be seeing you. I almost can't wait to get home, today aya The outside door sounded an exclamation point after the final words.
Madge looked around comfortably, feeling warmed and companioned. "I'll be seeing you," Colleen had said, not, "I'm taking off." Was the difference symbolic of something joyful coming into her life through this granddaughter she had understood so little?
Clearing the table, Madge heard herself humming a tune.
Words slipped into place:"... Do you see my new shoes...
With the tips on the toes...?"
Recklessly she executed the steps down the narrow space between the table and the cabinets. And then she stood still, and threw back her head, and listened to laughter of her own. I should have | I mean, you > tle ail, lin i iin il i il i i i i i i li i i i i i i i i i le This Beautiful Art is Easy and Fascinating "LEARN NETTING" awe F Mes ee aad =otp 47 FZ Siok "E. /% oo a " at THE NELSON BOOK OF NETTING shows fifteen beautiful designs — Doilies — Handkerchiefs — Baby Bonnets — and other lovely items. Kit comprises five plastic mesh sticks and steel needle, with pictured self instruction book $ 3 50 and 10c for postage and State tax. If not in your department store write The ARTCRAFT PRESS Manufacturers 217
Beason Bldg. — Salt Lake City, Utah A Useful and Inexpensive Gift "IF YOU LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS" BY FLORENCE J. MADSEN And all other Relief Society Music, including TWO-PART and THREE-PART ANTHEMS GENERAL REFERENCE BOOKS for CHORISTERS Write us at once and we will fill your orders promptly GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74
South Main Salt Lake City, Utah Toh Near and Sar Mabel Harmer, author of the new serial "For the Strength of the Hills," tells us something about herself in the following note: "I was born in Logan, the eldest in a family of seven girls—all of whom have been more or less interested in writing.
After being graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College with an English major, I taught school for several years.
Since my marriage to Earl W. Harmer, we have made our home in Salt Lake City. I began writing about midway in the production of my family and have kept an even balance, having five children and five books.
There are also three lovely grandchildren. The books are Brigham Young at Home (written in collaboration with Clarissa Young Spencer); The Story of the Mormon Pioneers; Denmis and the Mormon Battalion; Famous Mascots and Kgs; and Storytime. My activities seem to have followed the same number, for I have also served on five stake boards. I believe that I have held every position in the women's Church organization from organist to president, with the exception of secretary.
Most recently, and I believe the most enjoyable, was as literature leader last year in the Thirty-First Ward Relief Society. Our family has since moved into the Garden Park Ward. I have been chairman of the Barnacles writing group, president of the Salt Lake Chapter, League of Utah Writers, and am currently State president of the League. My hobbies are music, needlepoint, and gardening—the latter much more in theory than in practice." I am sending a number of new subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine. The first name on the list, is a man, Brother Reginald D. Shaffer, a new convert to the Church. He is a very faithful member. —Ruby H. Lundberg, Malad, Idaho Please renew my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. It is all I have of Relief Society since moving out here, and as there are no visiting teachers, I still get the messages from the Magazine. —Mrs. Luetta Gilchrist, Mackay, Idaho  - I am sending a number of new subsciptions. 'The Magazine always gives me a thought for each day. —lletta D. Reid, Panguitch, Utah It is a pleasure to again this year receive The Relief Society Magazine as a gift from my mother. I wish to express my appreciation to all of you for the continued variety of inspiring messages it brings each month.
Kindly note address change, as I am anxious to receive the Magazine after my arrival in the Near East. Miss Maud Pearson, Baltimore, Maryland New address: Beirut, Lebanon In 1948 the April issue of the Maga.
Zine published a special short story by Dorothy Clapp Robinson entitled "The Gift" (page 224), which is one of the many short stories I have enjoyed reading. But there is not a gift more tenderly received by me than The Relief Society Magazine.
With every number there is a new, original design on the cover shining with beauty. One special feature article, "And This Is Life Eternal,' written by Elder Harold B. Lee (April 1949, page 222) should be a lasting memory to everyone who reads it. The features and the poetry are all timely contributions to literature, and are indeed a rich inheritance gained from our pioneer parents, as of my own mother, Eliza Stephensen Winn, who gave immeasurably to the cause of Relief Society. She was a guiding light to a large family where she resided seventy years ago in Richfield, Utah. —Mrs. John Gee, Rexburg, Idaho We want to tell you how much the Relief Society sisters in our ward enjoy the Magazine. It contains so many things of interest to our Latter-day Saint women. Our advice to the class leaders is: Be sure to use the material given in the Magazines, together with the listed references. Also, the stories, articles, and poetry are very fine. Of course, I especially enjoy the poetry. We are happy that we have reached a 100. Per cent quota for our ward. —Iva Lou Nebeker, Perry, Utah Your 'College grade"