[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 8 | Fiction | Tell Me of | Love Chapter]
[Tell Me of Love Chapter]

January 1967

Now just a word about another subject. President Joseph F. Smith said something else that I've carried in my mind these years, something about the importance of owning your own home. Now we're drifting away from that today. And I want you to get the importance of what he said here.

It was early the rule among the Latter-day Saints to have the lands so divided that every family could have a spot of ground which could be called theirs; and it has been the proud boast of this people that among them were more home owners than among any other people of like numbers. This condition had a good tendency, and whatever men said of us, the home among this people was a first consideration. It is this love of home that has made the saints famous as colonizers, builders of settlements, and redeemers of the deserts. But in the cities there appears now to be coming into vogue the idea that renting is the thing. Of course, it may be necessary as a temporary makeshift, but no young couple should ever settle down with the idea that such a condition, as far as they are concerned, shall be permanent. Every young man should have an ambition to possess his own home. It is better for him, for his family, for security, for the state, and for the Church. Nothing so engenders stability, strength, power, patriotism, fidelity to country and to God as the owning of a home - a spot of earth that you and your children can call yours. And besides, there are so many tender virtues that grow with ownership that the government of a family is made doubly easy thereby (SMITH, JOSEPH F., Gospel Doctrine, Tenth Edition, page 305).

Now a home, I would impress, not only a home here, but building a home for the eternity. This is a phase of it, and I shall close with this, with one or two obvious conclusions. The Lord said:

And again, verily I say unto you, if a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise... they shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever (D&C 132:19).

Now, the Prophet Joseph Smith, commenting on this scripture, explained:

Except a man and his wife enter into an everlasting covenant and be married for eternity, while in this probation, by the power and authority of the Holy Priesthood, they will cease to increase when they die; that is, they will not have any children after the resurrection. But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory (SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pages 300-301).

Our First Presidency in our latter days has said:

So far as the stages of eternal progression and attainment have been made known through divine revelation, we are to understand that only the resurrected and glorified beings can become the parents of spirit offspring. Only such exalted souls have reached maturity in the appointed course of eternal life; and the spirits born to them in the eternal worlds will pass in due sequence through the several stages or estates by which the glorified parents have obtained exaltation. (The First Presidency, June 30, 1916, "The Father and the Son," page 8).

Now the conclusions. Woman has within her the power of creation in company with her legal and lawful husband here, and if

12

The Role of Women in Building the Kingdom

sealed in celestial wedlock, may have eternal increase in the world to come. Woman is the homemaker in her own home, and an exemplar to her posterity in the generations that succeeded her. Woman is a helpmate to her husband and to render him more perfect than he otherwise would be. Woman's influence can bless a community or a nation to that extent to which she develops her spiritual powers in harmony with the heaven-sent gift which she has been by nature endowed. If she does not forfeit her priceless heritage by her own willful negligence, she can be largely instrumental in safeguarding democracy and downing a would-be tyrant. Year in and year out, she may cast the aura of her calming and refining influence to make certain that her posterity will enjoy the opportunities to develop to their fullest potential their spiritual and physical natures.

Now this is a rather sensitive thing that I shall close with. We had one in high station in government circles who has made a suggestion which was highly applauded, according to a great educator whose words I'm going to quote. It made the suggestion that all young persons in this country, boys and girls, perhaps, should be required, whether in peace or war, to give a year or two of their lives in some kind of national service. Then this wise educator said this. Now don't you quote me as saying this, but you say that I said, he said that:

There are a lot of folks who think that it is just as vital for a young Los Angeles woman to get married and rear a family with respect to law and rights of men as it is for another young woman to work in a poverty program of some sort. The young engineers who develop techniques in our industry are as important to the strength of this country as the special assistants who inhabit the big Federal agencies. There are weeks in this city, in fact, when after a plethora of conferences and meetings, such as the recent one on the status of women, the residents would gladly barter half a dozen status officials for one mother who wants more than anything to bring love and beauty into the lives of her children, or they would trade a whole conference in Washington for one grandfather who would round up the neighborhood children and take them on a hike. (DR. MAX RAFFERTY, California State Superintendent of Public Instruction.)

Now that's, unquote, all of that I quote for you to think about.

So I close with a prayer, God render our wives, our sweethearts, our mothers ever more perfect in order to hold the bearers of the Priesthood, under their influence, to a truer course of happiness here and eternal joy in the world to come, for which I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

13

Relief Society
Centennial
Memorial
Bell Tower

President Belle S. Spafford

[Address Delivered at the
Services Commemorating
Bell Tower Completion,
September 29, 1966]

[PHOTOGRAPH: Howard Barker]

■ A quarter of a century ago, the General Board of Relief Society and the sisters in the stakes and missions of the Church under the leadership of President Amy Brown Lyman, busily engaged themselves in preparing appropriate observances for the 100th anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The Church-wide celebration was planned to be held in connection with the Relief Society General Conference, April 1942. (At that time, Relief Society held semi-annual conferences.) A number of impressive and significant programs were planned, designed to make the Centennial an epical period in the history of Relief Society.

As plans moved forward, however, Sister Lyman and her board began to feel a need for a permanent memorial—something that would endure long after the 100th birthday was passed. From an article in The Relief Society Magazine (November 1941, page 769) by Mary Grant Judd, Chairman of the Centennial observance, I quote:

... unless we do something about it, the time will come when this wonderful occasion will be a thing of the past and will live only in our memories. And so it has come to the General Board with ever-increasing clearness that some permanent memorial should be left—something of lasting value.

The Centennial Observance Committee, consisting of Mary G. Judd, Edith S. Elliott, Rae B. Barker, and Anna B. Hart, was assigned to make recommendations and work out details for the permanent memorial project. Again I quote from Sister Judd:

Casting about for a suitable project, the idea came to mind of hanging the historic Nauvoo Temple bell in a permanent and beautiful setting....

14

[PHOTOGRAPH: Black and white aerial view of a large outdoor gathering with crowds of people seated around a central area with speakers at a podium]

Courtesy, Salt Lake Tribune

Services at the Completion of The Relief Society Memorial Campanile, September 29, 1966

Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, offering prayer at the podium; President Hugh B. Brown, of the First Presidency, seated, fifth from the right behind the podium; Elder S. Dilworth Young, of the First Council of Seventy, seated in front of the podium third from the right. General President of Relief Society Belle S. Spafford seated seventh from the left behind the podium.

We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women more efficiently to do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung.

There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West came Eliza R. Snow. . . . and safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our founding meeting.

Sister Lyman was enthusiastic over the erection of a permanent Centennial memorial, not alone in recognition of a highly signif-

icant event in the history of the Church—the founding of Relief Society—but in recognition of the lofty position accorded women in the restored gospel. She responded warmly to the idea of a Campanile for the Nauvoo Temple bell, for she knew the ties that bound Relief Society to this historic vessel.

The First Presidency — President Heber J. Grant, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay — gave the General Board "not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement" to go forward with the erection of the bell tower on Temple Square. Accord-

15
