[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The]
[The Long and Short of Marriage — The Continuity of Companionship]

See also "Recipes From the South Australian Mission," page 511. Society Sonnets Frances C. Yost ARAH Barnes listened attentively to the literature lesson given by Sister Nellie Morris. "It is generally agreed that no other writer was so universal, so timeless, so full of all kinds of wisdom and so rich in beauty, as was Shakespeare." Sister Morris smiled at her class of sisters. It seemed to Sarah Barnes that the world of literature opened for her here at these meetings each month. 'They seemed to fill the abyss of her meager education. She loved to read Shakespeare's plays and his poems. Why, Sarah thought, his sonnets are out of this world. If I could write a sonnet like one of his! Sarah wished she weren't so timid. Why, even when she had a good thought, even when she knew the answer, and no one else did, she was too timid to raise her hand and participate. What was Sister Morris, the literature teacher, saying? "Now, for a special assignment for next month, I want each of you to try to write a sonnet." A groan rippled through the class of Relief Society sisters, followed by a mild chuckle. But Sister Morris, always in command of any situation, spoke, "Now mind you, I said try. Perhaps all of you won't be successful, but I hope you are. At any rate, I know of no better way for a person to appreciate the many wonderful sonnets Shakespeare has written, than to try to write one. Page 498 "Now, to help you carry out this assignment, I'm going to take a few minutes and here, on the board, outline the pattern of a sonnet, and give you some tips, which should make it easier for you. "First, a sonnet has fourteen lines, and it is written in pentameter. Can someone explain what pentameter means?" Sister Morris smiled helpfully. Her method of teaching was always by class participation. At first Sarah Barnes didn't recognize the word. She had always thought the pronunciation was penta-meter. But Sister Morris, who was so well grounded in English, pronounced it pentam-eter. So it surely was correct that way. 'That was the nice thing about Relief Society, you could learn things here that you would never learn at home, studying alone. Sarah wanted to raise her hand and tell the group that pentameter meant five feet to a line. She knew it was right, but she just couldn't make her hand go up, or her voice stay calm enough to speak. She wished she weren't so timid, when all of these sisters were her dear friends. She looked about. Sister Vera Means had raised her hand. "Sister Means, will what pentameter means?" Morris spoke kindly. "It means five feet to a line. A foot in poetry is much like a bar in music, though the lines of course, are imaginary,' Vera Means explained. You tell us Sister SOCIETY SONNETS "Yes, that is correct, five feet to each line," Sister Morris repeated. Then, turning to the blackboard, she wrote the first line from one of Shakespeare's sonnets. When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. "Now, we'll use this for an example. Will someone step to the blackboard and mark this line of poetry off in pentameter?" Sister Morris smiled as she challenged them. Sarah Barnes studied the line carefully. She would mark the first line through the center of forty; the second through the center of winters; the third after shall; and the fourth after besiege. But she couldn't raise her hand to answer the question, much less walk to the front of the room, pick up the chalk, and mark the meter in the line. She glanced about the room. Sister Pearl Moffett, with a little embarrassed laugh, walked to the blackboard, and marked it off just as Sarah. Barnes had figured it should be. "That's just fine," Sister Morris complimented. "Now we have the line marked off in meter. Let's talk about accenting syllables. Words are like children, they have their tender places, which are not meant for spanking, such as the ears. We must tap them lightly in some places and accent them harder in others." HE sisters were enjoying the humor of Sister Morris. 'Then she continued: "Words have proper places for accenting, and we must never line them up in poetry, so they will be accented improperly. Now let's study this line for accent." 499 Sarah Barnes studied the line for awhile. She even repeated it in her mind: When forty winters shall besiege thy brow. 'The accents would, of course, fall on: for, win, shall, siege, brow. "It's easy, sisters,' Sister Morris encouraged. She looked about the room. Her eyes fell on Sarah Barnes. She must have seen her lips forming the accented syllables. "Tm sure you can do this, Sister Barnes. You accent your own words so well." Nellie Morris handed the chalk to Sarah Barnes, saying: "Just draw a line like this, over the accented syllables." Sarah Barnes was glad she had worn her nice suit today, if she was to stand in front of the ladies.