[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: A Need | Author: Dean]
[A Need for Patience Myrtle M. Dean]
important,  she  must  be  an  ever-ready 
spiritual  ad\'iser  when  a  need  arises.  A 
mother,  too,  must  undergo  the  ceaseless 
repetitions  of  daily  tasks,  and  intelligently 
answer  the  numerous,  persistent  questions 
of  a  family.  She  must  be  a  wise  arbiter 
of  their  childish  differences. 
To  attain  a  truly  peaceful  and  tranquil 
atmosphere  in  the  home,  one's  serenity 
must  be  genuine.  It  is  not  enough  to 
display  an  outward  composure  when  there 
is  an  undercurrent  of  seething  tension. 
Children  readily  discern  deception  or  pre- 
tense. It  is  only  by  continued  awareness 
that  a  habit  of  thoughtful  patience  may 
be  established. 
Just  as  a  flock  of  birds  congregating  in 
a  green  meadow  will  surely  be  put  to 
flight  by  a  sudden  sound  or  some  foreign 
object  coming  too  close  to  them,  so  will 
the  joy  be  banished  from  a  happy  heart, 
and  the  brightness  of  a  peaceful  day  be 
darkened  by  a  hasty  word  or  unkind  ac- 
tion. 
It  takes  courage  and  fortitude  to  curb 
impatient  words  and  impetuous  emotions. 
Through  a  sincere  prayer,  we  may  receive 
the  help  to  attain  to  the  patience  we  de- 
sire. Each  morning  at  the  beginning  of 
a  new  day,  a  prayer  will  give  strength 
and  courage.  A  prayer  e\'ery  night  will 
bring  gratitude,  comfort,  and  peace. 
(g. 
xpression 
Gene  Romolo 
Not  alone  man  speaks;  all  nature  \'oices, 
In  ^•a^ying  moods,  a  language  of  its  own, 
And  every  comprehending  soul  rejoices 
In  myriad  tongues  of  nature's  magic  tone. 
They  who  hearken  unto  nature's  language 
Receive  the  largess  of  a  boon  sublime. 
For  nature  gives  expressions  of  all  time. 
And  of  all  seasons,  and  far  and  near  are  flun^ 
Enchanting  strains  its  hlting  voice  has  sun§ 
Page  518
