[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Flowers | Author: Luce]
[Flowers and Children Celia Luce]
THE  BRIGHT  STAR 
527 
souvenir  shop.  "V\l  be  just  a  little 
while/'  she  promised.  But  she  re- 
mained in  the  shop  almost  half  an 
hour,  and  when  she  finally  came  out 
and  climbed  into  the  coupe,  her  face 
was  aglow.  ''Mission  accomplished/' 
she  said. 
It  had  begun  to  rain,  and  the 
huge  spatters  flattened  themselves 
furiously  on  the  highway.  Marc 
leaned  over  the  wheel  in  his  effort 
to  see  clearly  through  the  stuttering 
windshield  wiper.  Finally,  they 
reached  the  wooded  area  just  be- 
yond the  gray  house.  The  ocean 
came  into  view  for  the  first  time, 
and  both  Kathy  and  Marc  caught 
their  breath  at  the  beauty  of  it:  the 
rain — a  fairy  shower,  with  each  huge 
separate  droplet  striking  the  water 
like  a  pearl. 
Marc  slowed  the  car.  Suddenly 
he  put  his  hand  over  Kathy's  warm 
fingers.  'Tour  mother,  Marie  Fen- 
ton,  was  my  mother's  best  friend.  I 
found  the  record  of  your  birth  in 
the  newspaper  files.  With  Old 
Phin  away  on  his  ships  all  the  time, 
and  Frank,  Grace's  husband  still  a 
child,  in  care  of  a  nurse,  it's  not 
surprising  that  they  knew  nothing 
of  your  existence.  I  suppose  you'll 
want  to  claim  your  rightful  place 
now."  Marc  looked  at  Kathy 
searchingly. 
{To  be  concluded) 
cJo  ^ytiv^  Lrarent 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
You  will  never  forget, 
And  your  child  will  long  remember, 
The  home-baked  loaf  of  bread 
Stories  by  the  fire's  ember; 
The  spontaneous  song  you  sang, 
The  games  you  found  for  playing, 
Your  assuring  step  at  night, 
The  moment  bent  in  praying; 
Autumn  hikes  upon  the  hill, 
Picnics  in  golden  weather. 
The  di\iding  time  comes  soon, 
Laugh  well  these  days  together. 
C/ lowers  and  (^  hud  ten 
Ceiia  Luce 
A  flower  must  be  carefully  tended.  The  weeds  must  be  pulled  away  from  it,  and 
the  flower  watered  and  fertilized.     Then  it  must  be  left  alone. 
A  plant  that  is  roughly  handled  becomes  warped  and  dwarfed.  A  flower  that  is 
held  too  close  is  crushed  and  fades  quickly. 
Children  are  like  flowers.  They  must  have  proper  care.  They  thri\e  in  an  environ- 
ment full  of  love  and  proper  character  training. 
Like  flowers,  children  must  not  be  held  too  close.  They  must  learn  to  make  their 
own  decisions  and  hve  by  them.  They  must  be  set  free  to  live  their  own  lives.  Parents 
who^  hold  their  children  too  close,  who  try  to  make  all  decisions  for  them  and  live 
their  lives  for  them,  find,  to  their  sorrow,  that  they  have  stunted  their  children.