[Vol44 | August 1957 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
A  chorus  of  joy,  on  this  day  of  all  days  .... 
— Emily    H.    Woodmansec 
OLD  FOLKS  DAY  IN  PAROWAN:  Irrespective  of  creed,  color  or  political  faith, 
all  who  had  passed  three  score  or  more  milestones,  adown  the  journey  on  this  sphere, 
were  entitled  to  a  free  seat,  with  all  the  comforts  and  attention  that  a  bevy  of  good 
natured  young  people  could  bestow,  and  at  one  o'clock  the  large,  new  opera  hall  was 
filled  with  the  honored  guests,  seated  around  tastily  decorated  tables  laden  so  com- 
pletely with  the  choicest  dishes  that  it  was  a  perfect  surprise,  and  many  queries  were 
propounded  as  to  where  so  many  good  things  came  from;  right  here  our  much  loved 
President  ga\e  a  feeling  poetical  address  of  welcome,  the  blessing  was  pronounced  and 
the  feast  partaken  of  in  a  way  that  all  were  assured  that  the  labors  and  generosity  of  the 
Relief  Society  members  were  truly  appreciated.  .  .  . 
— News  Note 
Page  506

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
OELLE  S.  SPAFFORD,  General 
President,  represented  Relief 
Society  as  a  delegate  at  the  meetings 
of  the  International  Council  of 
Women  in  Montreal,  Canada,  June 
5th  to  June  15th,  1957.  Counselor 
Marianne  C.  Sharp,  as  an  alternate, 
representing  the  Young  Women's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association, 
also  attended  the  meetings.  Thirty 
member  nations  were  represented, 
with  observers  from  additional 
countries. 
r\R.  MARTHA  ELIOT,  former 
head  of  the  Children's  Bureau 
of  the  United  States  Department  of 
Health,  Education,  and  Welfare,  is 
now  a  professor  in  Harvard's  School 
of  Public  Health.  She  says  that  the 
modern  trend  in  some  states  to  pun- 
ish parents  vicariously  for  children's 
delinquency,  is  "not  only  repugnant 
to  American  concepts  of  justice  and 
fair  play;  it  is  contrary  to  sound 
social  policy."  The  real  need,  she 
feels,  is  to  provide  the  kinds  of 
diagnostic  counseling  and  guidance 
services  that  help  parents  who  have 
serious  personal  or  social  problems. 
lyf  ABEL  LAW  ATKINSON,  Day- 
ton, Idaho,  a  long-time  con- 
tributor to  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, has  placed  first  and  second  and 
has  also  won  honorable  mention  in 
the  national  1956  Davis  Contest  for 
poetry  contributing  to  everyday  liv- 
ing. For  the  first  time  all  the  judges 
voted  the  prize-winning  poem,  ''A 
Sixth  Door  Opens"  first  place.  Mrs. 
Atkinson  has  used  her  Latter-day 
Saint  teachings  as  the  theme  of  the 
poem.  Her  poems  also  placed  first 
in  the  Arnold  Davidson's  'Time" 
contest  and  second  in  the  "Space" 
poem  contest. 
'TpHREE  women  graduates  of  the 
University  of  Utah  are  now  en- 
gaged in  important  foreign  service 
work  for  the  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  State.  Mrs.  Isabel  G. 
Blackstock  is  in  the  division  of  re- 
search for  U.  S.  S.  R.  and  Eastern 
Europe;  Mrs.  Marie  W.  Cannon  is 
consul  in  Berlin;  and  Mrs.  Alice  B. 
Correll  is  in  the  office  of  special 
consular  services. 
D R.  LEONA  C.  BAUMGART- 
NER,  New  York  City  Commis- 
sioner of  Health,  points  out  from 
statistics  that  the  mothers  who  get 
the  best  quality  of  medical  care  dur- 
ing and  after  pregnancy,  are  the 
ones  who  produce  the  healthiest 
infants.  Perinatal  deaths  (those  oc- 
curring within  thirty  days  after 
birth)  take  the  lives  of  165,000  in- 
fants a  year.  This  number  of  deaths 
is  exceeded  only  by  the  mortality 
from  heart  disease,  cancer,  and  cere- 
bral hemorrhage,  or  stroke. 
Page  507
