[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 108 | General Feature | Penny-Wise Playgrounds June | F. Krambule]
ts of possibilities for the young and active minds of children, especially those between the ages of two and ten. With inexhaustible energy, they climb in and out of the boxes, hide from each other in or behind them, push them around to form various structures, and turn them upsidedown to stand or pound on. One minute these sturdy boxes may be taking children to town with a loud choo-choo, only to be magically transformed into skyscrapers minutes later. Add several planks to these boxes and there are still more possibilities. The children will place a plank across two of the boxes to walk along' or jump from, and then most likely use it for a springboard—more fun than you can imagine. One end of the plank will perhaps be placed on a box and the other on the ground. The kiddies will walk up and down it and even use it as a slide. They may put it across a box and climb inside—they have a roof over them now. While stocking your children's playground with these inexpensive but beloved crates and planks, you will probably wonder about the dangers involved. How many times, you may ask yourself, will there be falls, smashed fingers and _ slivers? It will be wise, of course, to sand the boxes and planks—especially on edges and corners— and apply some non-toxic paint. This will eliminate the ravages of splinters. As for pinched fingers and falls, these, unhappily, are an inevitable part of play. According to nursery school observers, if you were to sit down unnoticed to watch a group of children play for several hours, the session would probably be more wearing for you than for the kiddies. You would see them lose their balance and instantly regain it, tip a box almost on their toes only to step back barely in time, and narrowly escape pinching their fingers under planks—reminding you perhaps of their toddler days when they walked crazily through doorways, narrowly escaping a bump on the head. Actually, a fall seldom rates more than a whimper, unless older folks are in view with ready sympathy.

Penny-Wise Playgrounds "Give children a chance to be creative,' plead experts in the field of child development. And sandboxes, they say, are wonderful—particularly if they are equipped with digging and molding utensils such as shovels and pails, and if the sand is kept moist so that it can be formed easily. A little foresight in providing end sections of egg or orange crates to sit on will keep the children dry. Small sawhorses, according to one instructor in child development, are a favorite among children. Be assured that no matter what the age of the youngster using them, he will be practical in finding many uses for this particular investment. One Utah nursery school provides a good muscle-builder in the form of an old dead tree, debarked and with the thick sturdy limbs cut back to within two or three feet from the trunk. Resting on several of these branches in a semi-upright position, gives safe climbing for any number of pretend games the children may' concoct. Other variations of this idea include logs cut varying lengths and placed on end in the ground for climbing from one round to another. Another favorite among preschoolers—wooden blocks—cost nothing. Scrap pieces in odd shapes and sizes are easily obtainable at planing mills or can be found at building sites. An ample number of these, sanded and stored in a plastic clothes basket, provide many hours of enjoyment edged with education. Another item to be had for the asking is an old steering 

109 February 1970

 wheel. Mount it on a pipe or pole anchored in the ground and watch how often Johnny goes for a ride in his new sports car, speed boat, or airplane. The possibilities are limitless, even though the budget may not be. Add stakes for horseshoe pitching or a pole for tether ball, construct your own brand of jungle gym, or pour cement rounds for jumping stones. But there is one thing you must not do: You must not plan the play yard for parent appeal as is so often done. Give the children the things they want—toys that will develop them and their thinking, and give them a section of the yard to call their own. Hedge it off if you wish, but let them make play real child's play.