Mothers' Day By Ida R. Alldredge UST two weeks until Mothers' J Day," mused Mrs. Thurber, "Dr. Keate is to pay tribute to the mothers-who have passed away and they say he was ashamed of his own mother after he became so great a doctor. And she slaved over the washtub to educate him too." She died of neglect and a broken heart." "Ken Martin will sing "That Wonderful Mother of Mine.' His mother deserted her home and children." "Betty Jones will be sure to choose 'Love at Home' as the opening song. Her family do nothing but quarrel the whole time. And so it goes." Mrs. Thurber painfully rose from her knees, straightened up and wrung out her mop. "It seems to me like Mothers' Day is about as much a farce as anything could be. The real Mothers' Day comes every other day of the year, especially wash day, ironing day and Saturday. Here it is nearly sundown and I'm not through yet." "Lil must take her week end out of town. John must see the football game, and Ted's class is off on a picnic. Jean thinks she should practice all afternoon so there's only the two babies home. And then to cap it all John phones that he is inviting two of his old college chums home to supper." "You don't mind, Mumsie dear, do you? You see they're old pals of mine. Make things nifty, too, won't you? A fellow sort of wants to appear his best. Perhaps you might have time to make some of those lemon tarts like you used to fix. Goodbye until seven." "If that isn't just like John to hang up the receiver before I had time to refuse. He just took me for granted. That's what they all do." She emptied her bucket, hung up her mop, and looked at the clock. "Five already. Just exactly two hours to finish straightening up the house, bathe the babies, clean myself up and cook supper. If I only had two pairs of hands I might manage. But somehow I must get things done so John won't be disappointed. If they had only come some other day than Saturday." In spite of mother's misgivings supper was ready exactly on time. The tablecloth was spotless and the table was laid with the best silverware and china. She eyed her preparations with pride. The tarts looked unusually inviting, she had added an extra touch to her salad. Father would be late so the table was set for only three. "I do wish John would hurry before everything is spoiled from waiting," she said. The telephone rang and as she went to answer she said to herself: "That must be father. Perhaps he has decided to come home early after all. He's working altogether too hard lately." "Hello, is this Mother? I'm sorry Mom, but we've changed our plans and won't be down to supper after all. Hope it hasn't put you out. So long." Mother dropped into the nearest chair and covered her face with 268 shaking hands. The light of anticipation died in her eyes and tears filled them instead. A great weariness overcame her. She hadn't realized how tired she was until now. For a long time she sat there until the striking of the clock roused her. With lagging steps she crossed the room and slowly mounted the stairs that led to her bedroom. With aching limbs she climbed into bed and soon fell into a troubled sleep. The following morning, the first time in many months, mother remained in bed, after the rest were up and making preparations for the Sunday services. Her head ached and she was too weary to get dressed. Father couldn't decide which tie to wear without consulting Mother. And John couldn't find his socks. "Mother, could you tell me where my slippers are? I put them up last night but can't remember where," said Lil. "And would you hook my dress? I can't reach. Jean knelt by the bed while her mother assisted her. At last they were all off to Sunday School and Mother settled down under the cover with a sigh. Everything was in confusion but she was too tired to care. However, she was not too tired to think. All night she had tumbled and tossed trying to decide what she could do to shift a little of the responsibility. Why should she take it all when there were so many others to share it with her. After all had she been the right kind of a mother to become nothing but a door mat for the family to trample upon? Was the fault with her or the children? She knew that John had not purposely hurt her last night. "I hope I've not put you out, Mom," she said bitterly to herself. "Well, maybe it's a good thing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that it happened, for it waked me up anyway. I'm afraid something's wrong with my training. I must decide upon some plan and start all over. She got out of bed and went to the glass. "Dorothy Dean, you're not nearly as old as you look, only forty and anyone would think you were at least fifty. You used to be the belle of the town and folks said you were pretty. Now your face is wrinkled and you're getting stooped." She threw back her shoulders and a smile lighted up her face. "I have it! The very thing! It may be hard on the family but they'll get along some way and it's worth trying. I'll wire Aunt Alice today that I'm going to accept her invitation and pay her a long visit. It will do the family and me both good. I'll spend a few weeks in making myself over while the family learn a little about what I have to do. Perhaps they'll wake up, too." Mother hastily dressed, for she must wire Aunt Alice before they returned or she might change her mind. Already she felt younger at the thoughts of a real vacation. She'd have nothing to worry about and nothing to do. She laughed when she thought of her, Dorothy Dean, who always waited upon the whole family, eating her breakfast in bed. She could read all she wanted to and if she needed anything she could ring and her wishes would be granted. "A few weeks of rest will remove some of the wrinkles, and I'll have time to take proper exercise too, so I can limber up a bit." With springing steps she hastened down town to the telegraph office. With a smile of satisfaction she handed them the message. MOTHERS' DAY FATHER and the children were amazed, upon their return, to find the house still in confusion and instead of their usual Sunday dinner waiting upon the table, there were dirty dishes left from the hurried breakfast. Where could mother be? Perhaps she was really ill and they should not have left her alone. John, leaping three steps at a time, rushed to her room but returned with a puzzled expression upon his face. "She's not there. Maybe she decided to go to church after we left and we missed her." Lil shook her head. "That's not like mother and besides I'm sure she wasn't there. Jean, run over to the neighbors and see if she is visiting." "Dad, look again in her room. Maybe she's covered up so John didn't see her. He never could find anything or anybody." Father looked in the bed, under it, and even in the closet. He returned with the same puzzled expression. "Mother! Mother!" they shouted in chorus, but there was no answer. The children cleared the table, Jean made the beds and tidied up the front room, while John, Ted, and even father were pressed into service. Lil prepared dinner from the untouched supper. As they took their seats at the table mother's smiling face greeted them from the doorway. "Well, I'm just in time, and I'm hungry, too." "Mother, where have you been?" they all asked in a chorus. "We've hunted everywhere." "Well, I got to thinking and decided to accept Aunt Alice's invitation to visit her. So I went down 269 and wired that I would leave this evening. You know Father, I'm a little tired and I thought it might do me good. Lil can manage the babies, and you can all help." "But Mother, how can you leave us to do everything. Surely you will at least take the babies? You'd be worried about them," said Lil. "Say Mom, what will I do about that party I've planned? You'll just have to wait till after that," said John. "And my new dress; It's only half done. And I must have it ready to wear to the dance." Dorothy looked in consternation at her mother. "Just a minute children, said Father. Mother's right. She does need a rest, and I'm glad she has decided to visit Aunt Alice. We'll manage some way. John can do without his party. And Dorothy can get Miss Simpkins to finish her dress. We'll all help Lil. You go and have a good time, Mother." AUNT ALICE was waiting when Mother arrived. In a moment they were off, threading their way through the heavy traffic. "Well, Dorothy, I'm so glad that you changed your mind and decided to come, and that I'm to have you all to myself for a long visit. "I want you to get that tired look out of your eyes." Before she could realize what had happened she was standing in a large hall, brilliantly lighted. And a moment later was led up a broad stairway and into the loveliest bedroom she had ever seen. The dainty covers were thrown back and it looked so inviting after the evening trip that Mother could hardly wait to go to bed. "You are probably tired after your trip, so I ordered your dinner served here. I hope you will find nothing lacking, but if you should, 270 just ring and Isabelle will answer. I hope you rest well and tomorrow we'll have a real visit together. Good night." Aunt Alice kissed her and closed the door. "How thoughtful she is, just like she used to be. I am tired and that bed looks so inviting." The days that followed were one round of pleasure. With skillful hands Isabelle dressed her mistress' niece. With deft fingers she arranged her hair, until Mother could scarcely believe it was herself. If Father could see her now he might fall in love all over again. One more resolution took form. In the future she must try to preserve her youthful appearance, so that father and the children would be proud of her. AFTER a week of never ending pleasure Mother began to grow lonesome for the sound of baby voices and the touch of their little hands. She even longed to hear John calling her "Mom." She wondered how Lil was managing the family, and if Father was receiving the attention which he needed. The house seemed so still that she wanted to shout to make things seem more natural. How did Aunt Alice endure the quiet, sameness, of it all, with never a sound of baby feet pattering about, the call of baby voices, the slamming of doors, and the shouting of Mother! Echoing through the house. She had thought she was tired of it all but now she longed to hear it again. What would Aunt Alice think if she decided to go home a little RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE earlier than she had planned? But no, she must stay with her resolution. The second week dragged by, for in spite of all Aunt Alice could do Mother was homesick. It was the day before Mothers' Day. As she sat in her room writing a letter home Isabelle entered carrying a large box. Mother opened it with eager fingers. As she lifted the lid the perfume of home grown carnations filled the room. She hastily opened the note which read: "Dear Mother, day after tomorrow is Mothers' Day. We feel that it would be a most imperfect one if you were not here to be honored with our love. We have learned through your absence, what it would mean to be deprived always of your loving presence. From now on we will all help share the responsibility that you may take your rightful place and not that of a servant. "Do you think you could be content to shorten your visit and return for that greatest of all days? Signed, Lil, John, Ted and Father." All the family were waiting to greet Mother as she stepped from the train. That night after she had tucked the babies into bed she turned and slipped her hand into Father's. "I've had a wonderful trip and it has taught me the real value of Motherhood," she said. And father, putting his arm around her said, in a husky voice, "And it has taught us the real meaning of Mother."
