Bessie Potter Vonnoh By Jennie B. Knight MRS. BESSIE POTTER VONNOH, whose "Motherhood" is the frontispiece of this issue of our Magazine, holds a distinct position in the field of Art. An article furnished by the Ryerson Library of Chicago, gives us the following about Mrs. Vonnoh: "Her young mothers are essentially maternal, her young women delightfully feminine, her children are childish, lovable and sincere. Thus in her little group Mrs. Vonnoh touches upon those human relationships which are elemental and which stir emotions both deep and profound." Mrs. Vonnoh is an American, born in St. Louis, Missouri. She was a student with Mr. Lorado Taft and also of the Art Institute of Chicago. Her work, being original with a touch of delicacy and grace, attracted attention in her early years. She has chosen for her subjects the things of daily life and in a degree preserved for the future the costumes, the characters and habits of our time. This is particularly true of her figurines which emphasize the newest and oldest of all subjects, Motherhood and Child Life. In her statues she has truly expressed the contentment and supreme joy found in no other realm. The Columbian Exposition at THE SANDMAN'S TRAIL Chicago occurred during her student days, which gave her an opportunity of seeing some of the works of 274 artists from abroad. She had the opportunity later of spending some time in Europe. While she has a DAPHNE profound admiration for the great artists, there is nothing imitative in her work. Mrs. Vonnoh has the rare good fortune of enjoying the companionship of a husband who is also an artist. Robert Vonnoh is a painter of renown. In one of their joint exhibitions he presented twenty-six paintings, she forty pieces of sculpture, among them a Portrait Relief of her husband. She has held many positions in the field of Art and has been elected a National Academician which honor she shares equally with Mr. Vonnoh, whose works have been known in America for years. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She is represented in the Metropolitan Museum of Art with eleven statues, in the Art Institute of Chicago with thirteen. Others are to be seen at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C., The Brooklyn Museum of Art and Science, Newark Museum Association, Capitol Building, Washington, D. C., Cincinnati Art Museum, Carnegie Institute, Pittsburg, and the Art Museum at Tokio, Japan. The Roosevelt Memorial bird fountain erected at Oyster Bay in 1925, is one of her creations. Another fountain, Water Lilies𨫎hich was awarded the Barnett GIRL IN VENETIAN COSTUME prize of the National Association of Women Painters and Sculptors in 1920, is worthy of the praise it reBESSIE POTTER VONNOH 275 ceived. One who has seen it says: "Its beauty lies in the sweet simplicity of youth." The lines of the silhouette are beautiful in every turn. The poise of the figure is balanced by the outstretched arms. In one hand she holds a lily which serves as the water course whence the water drops through tiny holes when the bronze is used as a basin fountain figure. The "Girl Reading" has repose and beauty. The lines are excellent, the straight Mexican chair contrasting with the curve of the figure. Mrs. Vonnoh has done life size work. All of us are proud that through her, one more woman has added to the art of America, and that many other figurines in gold, silver and bronze have found their way into the homes of those who love and appreciate Art.
