What Does Your Home Afford? By Jean Cox WOULD you like to measure your home with some of the measuring sticks suggested by the White House Conference? Have you often wondered what kind of a home you have and how it compares with other homes with which you are more or less acquainted? Have you a rather definite picture in your own mind of what constitutes a so-called good home? Have you wondered if there are other means of measuring homes than the indefinite terms used when the matter is up for discussion? Have you wondered if there is a way of rating some of the intangibles which make homes differ? Attempts to answer questions such as these were part of the objectives of the committee on Family and Parent Education which made its splendid contribution to the White House Conference. Some very unique studies were reported by these committees in their efforts to find a way of measuring, for instance, that elusive something called atmosphere. Their measuring stick was in terms of product or result. One study was made on the assumption that children from homes are symptomatic of the home. Dr. Rachel Seutzman of Merrill Palmer and her committee made a study of the homes of one hundred children. Fifty of these were considered well adjusted children, and fifty were poorly adjusted children. A study of the homes from which the children came showed that the first group came from well conditioned homes and had fewer troubles in their human relationships than did. Perience. The other group. Their fathers and mothers lived more harmoniously. There were fewer differences in religious and financial matters. Children from these homes had a more wholesome outlook. Another question demanding careful consideration is, what do homes contribute in developing independence of children. Too many children are over-mothered even into adulthood. The following story represents many only sons, The president of a southern college received this message from an anxious mother. "I fear a northern (cold storm) is coming. Will you please see that my son is covered up." The son a freshman at college was not known by the president, neither did he want to assume nurse guardianship to overcome lack of training which college youths should have had before entering high school or college. Efficient home training should establish ideals of responsibility for children for maintaining their own health. Children, as well as adolescents, should desire health. With the right home atmosphere the desire to be well, to be strong, to be good natured, to be helpful becomes a part of the family creed. Positive appeal rather than negative should be made. Strength is a more potent force than is weakness. Many families, however, have fine health standards and to them living becomes a pleasure, an engaging experience Unfortunately in other families children as well as parents, do not realize what good health is, and they know little concerning the resultant joys of radiant health. 282 Someone has said that a positive health ideal is worth more than a bank account. Health and illness have been equated in terms of dollars and cents. Loss of work, or extra expense, however, are less significant than lack of mental health or desire for joy in living. It has been said that the only fixed thing in regard to the home is the ideal, and similarly it might be said that the only fixed thing in our education for modern family living is an appreciation of this ideal. Children change from month to month, relationships between husbands and wives, vary as a result of other changes. Economic and social differences are reflected in the home and also in the individuals who contribute to the home. With a rather definite ideal, however, of what a home should contribute to the different members of the family, the function of the home remains somewhat constant even if adjustments in the physical plant vary. Trite as it may seem, from better homes will result better individuals, communities, and nation; and better individuals will insure better homes which may make bigger contributions to the social development of the communities and nation. In any child welfare program much must depend upon the home. While different homes vary in the physical plant the most important single factor, quoting President Hoover is, "that affection and devotion of the soul which is the great endowment of mothers." Because of this great love and understanding, she can supplement training from schools and church. Leaders do occasionally come from so-called poor homes. Doubtless the mother's influence compensates for other RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE unsatisfactory conditions within the home plant. Due to the economic and social conditions the homes of today have different problems as well as increased responsibility, than the childhood homes of the present parents and grandparents. Fewer responsibilities for children in and around the home plant have decreased natural opportunities for child training. The crowding of families into the cities have multiplied problems in child care and training. Delinquency increases with congestion. Physical disease frequently results from over-crowding. This, however, is not all of the story for when the child's natural playground is taken from him, his mind does not have opportunities for wholesome imagination and play, in a make-believe world. Flights of fancy and development of initiative respond to the stimuli of wood, stream, and field. The home must be a haven of safety for the child if physical, social, and emotional development are satisfactory. The average child is an acquisitive individual and delights in feeling ownership of toys, books, and playthings. For his best development he needs a sense of belonging to the family group, a feeling that he is necessary for their happiness as well as the repeated assurance that he is loved by those whom he loves. The sense of security, as well as freedom from worry, contributes to both physical. Mental, and social health. This feeling of security in childhood will contribute to the individual's poise in adulthood. It will help in the development of a personality which -will help its owner gain the big objective of joy in the art of living. N his White House Conference speech, President Hoover made WHAT DOES YOUR HOME AFFORD? The statement that "'Cheerless homes produce morbid minds." To produce happy individuals is one of the chief functions of the home. The happy hopeful personality fs a distinct asset to the individual and is largely the result of satisfactory home conditions. This results when there is love and understanding among the different members of the family group. The ideal family relationships stimulate courage, confidence, and self-respect which are all necessary for the well-being of the child and which will also contribute to his later success. There is little assurance for success if the human relationships in the home have made the person suspicious, fault-finding, self-effacing, and prone to carry the proverbial chip on his shoulder. Later success is also endangered if early years do not afford expression of love, understanding, and desire for, and satisfaction in the child, regardless of age or Sex. The query of the two year old, "Do you need me mother?" typifies his need for belonging to the group. Little children want to belong to a family. They desire appreciation, they desire their own toys and books. Are you over-serious in your responsibilities as parents? Does intelligent parenthood necessarily involve only seriousness in action and contemplation to the exclusion of happiness and joy for both parents and children? Successful homes are happy homes. Someone said the eleventh commandment is Do not take your job too seriously. Perhaps this applies to you. H OMES have many responsibilities. Does your home supply management and supervision in the control and prevention of illness? Frequent and _ prolonged _ illness 283 changes the home atmosphere, entails extra expense, and results in unnecessary human suffering. The White House Conference committee on management reported that in a study made of 355 families over a three year period, one-half of the group had one or more illnesses during the three years. Operations, whooping cough, and common colds were reported most frequently; constipation, diseased tonsils and adenoids, and various types of nervous disorders occurred less often. The homemakers admitted their inability to forecast the proportion of the income which is needed to promote health. They were concerned over the narrow margin left after other expenses were met which made the maintenance of health exceedingly important in the family of average income. Have you sufficient knowledge of child psychology to deal satisfactorily with problems of the younger members of the family? A better understanding of human nature was one of the needs listed by a majority of the three hundred and fifty six mothers studied. These women were also anxious to study books designed to give help in family relationships, including that of the parent and older child relationships. Additional emphasis was also given to the importance of providing training for fathers as well as mothers. Ideally, fathers as well as mothers should have pre-parental training in order to establish ideals and set standards for the kind of home and family life they desire. Too great differences in training bring the husband and wife to the responsibilities of parenthood with divergent ideas and standards. This demands careful consideration. One of the difficulties arising out of the child study groups which are attended largely by women is that the 284 increased training given the mother may increase these divergencies. Having material for father to read as well as free discussion between husband and wife of the problems discussed by the group will tend to break down these differences. One of the big responsibilities of homemaking is to make it a joint occupation of husband and wife by common understanding and consent. Mothers need health in order to carry on their many managerial and technical jobs as well as those entailing human relationships. Physical and nervous strain which results from the long hours as well as numerous duties make decided drains on the mother's vitality. In other words, long continued peak loads of work or responsibility and work may keep all but the very able from giving of their best to their husband and children. Further studies are needed to help determine better or Normal Curve 1................. Love and Understanding Managerial Ability Child Training Economic Stability Suitability and Efficiency of Home Plant Range in score: Does your home score average, above, or below? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organization of the work in the home as well as discriminate between essential and less essential tasks for different homes. This elimination would vary also with ages as well as outside demands on the time of the different members of the family group. There is evident need of more cooperative plans for accomplishing the necessary work of the home, and making it possible for the different members of the family to share free time together. The American home is in a way under fire. More studies need to be made regarding the present home for children who are growing up in the homes of today. More attention needs to be given to scientific studies regarding the so-called intangibles in order to more definitely determine what the individual home affords. You might be interested in scoring your home on the following chart.
