[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Interest on Relief Society Wheat Trust Fund]
interest  payment  on  this  fund  on 
July  1,  1941.  This  interest  is  paid 
by  means  of  check  for  all  amounts 
of  one  dollar  or  more;  amounts  of 
less  than  one  dollar  will  be  mailed 
direct  to  Relief  Society  presidents 
in  the  form  of  postage  stamps.  The 
checks  are  drawn  in  favor  of  the 
Relief  Societies  who  have  ownership  which  is  in  the  form  of  wheat,  the 
in  the  fund,  but  are  mailed  to  the  Societies  having  ownership  in  the 
bishops  of  the  wards  for  ward  Re-  fund  may  expect  an  even  lower 
lief  Societies,  and  to  the  stake  presi-  amount  of  interest  next  year  for  ma- 
dent  for  stake  Relief  Societies.  All  ternity  and  health  work.  The  Re- 
Relief  Society  presidents  whose  or-  lief  Society  is  appreciative  of  the 
ganizations  have  ownership  in  this  wise  handling  of  the  wheat  trust 
fund  are  requested   to  obtain   the     fund    by    the    Presiding    Bishopric 
record  books  as  interest  received  on 
wheat  trust  fund. 
Relief  Society  officers  will  note 
that  the  amount  of  interest  received 
this  year  (1941)  is  slightly  lower 
than  the  amount  received  in  1940. 
The  lower  amount  is  due  to  the  con- 
version of  additional  amounts  of  the 
trust  fund  into  wheat  for  storage. 
It  is  probable  that  further  amounts 
will  also  be  reinvested  in  wheat  in 
the  future.  Therefore,  inasmuch  as 
interest  is  not  paid  on  the  amount 
checks  from  their  respective  bishops 
at  once.  It  is  requested  that  these 
checks  be  cashed  immediately,  and 
that  the  endorsement  on  the  reverse 
of  the  checks  be  in  the  name  of  the 
which  has  made  it  possible  for  the 
various  local  Societies  who  own  an 
interest  in  the  fund  to  receive  re- 
turns in  interest  at  the  comparative- 
Society  followed  by  the  name  of  the  ^y  ^'^^  ^^*^  ^hich  has  been  allowed 
Relief  Society  president.  All  interest  d"™g    the    past    years,    especially 
payments,  whether-  received  in  the  when  it  is  realized  that  interest  rates 
form  of  check  or  postage  stamps,  are  paid  by  banks  have  dwindled  ma- 
to  be  entered  in  the  Relief  Society  terially  during  this  period. 
ioinaing    1 1  Latenai  CJor  Uxelief  Society    I  Hagazine 
TN  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  for  Janu- 
■*•  ary,  1941,  page  43,  announcement  was 
made  regarding  the  availability  of  material 
for  binding  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
Each  package  contains  enough  material  to 
bind  twelve  volumes,  and  will  not  be 
broken  in  order  to  sell  smaller  amounts. 
The  price  of  each  package  of  binding  ma- 
terial was  formerly  stated  at  $3.15;  because 
Page  474 
of  advancing  prices  it  has  been  necessary 
for  us  to  increase  the  price  to  $3.50  per 
package  for  binding  material  ordered  after 
July  1,  1941.  Indexes  are  furnished  free 
of  charge  upon  request.  Orders  for  binding 
material  should  be  addressed  to :  The  Gen- 
eral Board  of  Relief  Society,  28  Bishop's 
Building,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.

The  Merry-Go-Round 
Alice  Money  Bailey 
CHAPTER  4 
SYNOPSIS 
ALYN  FORDYCE,  proud  of  her  back- 
ground of  family  and  wealth  is  shocked 
when  her  husband, 
JOHN  FORDYCE,  whom  she  has  never 
considered  a  great  success,  announces 
that  he  has  lost  his  job — which  he  has 
never  liked,  but  which  paid  a  salary  of 
$500  a  month — and  has  taken  a  job 
with  Mr.  Milton,  of  the  Intermountain 
Milton  Nurseries,  working  at  horticul- 
ture— which  he  has  always  liked,  but 
which  pays  only  $150  a  month.  He  is 
stubborn  about  using  their  brilliant  so- 
cial connections  to  obtain  a  more  lucra- 
tive position,  and  Alyn  accuses  him  of 
selfishness,  reminding  him  that  she  needs