[Vol28 | July 1941 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT  501 
one  enjoys  himself  so  thoroughly  as  unhappy  presents  a  problem    that 
he  who  is  struggling  and  achieving,  cannot  be  overlooked. 
Eternal  joy  is  the  reward  for  eternal  Unfortunately,     the    associations 
progression.  between  men  and  women  are  not  al- 
Answering  our  question  in  a  little  ways  pleasant.     Marriage  does  not 
different  way,  then,  we  may  say  that  always  result  in  happiness.     Some- 
a  successful  marriage  is  a  marriage  times  marriage  fails,  and   when   it 
that  results  in  a  family  of  vibrant  does  the  result  can  only  be  unhappi- 
personalities,  free  to  develop  accord-  ness  and  misery  for  those  involved, 
ing  to  their  needs  under  the  help  Some  of  the  deepest  and  most  last- 
and  encouragement  of  others,  and  ing  satisfactions  of  life  come  from 
thoroughly  happy  in  the  process.  the  institution  of  marriage,  but  so 
There  have  been  a  number  of  re-  ^^^o  do  some  of  the  most  disturbing 
cent  studies  on  the  extent  of  hap-  and  saddening  experiences.  Figur- 
piness  in  marriage.  From  a  sample  ^tively  speaking,  marriage  can  either 
of  7412  marriages,  Richard  O.  Lang  lift  a  person  to  heaven  or  drag  him 
found  that  72  percent  were  rated  as  ^^  hell.  Potentially  marriage  means 
happy  by  persons  who  knew  the  happiness,  and  often,  too,  that  hap- 
couples  well  and  only  9  percent  were  piness  is  achieved,  but  the  sad  thing 
rated  as  definitely  unhappy.^  Kath-  is  that  in  many  cases  it  is  not 
arine  B.  Davis  made  a  study  of  1000  achieved,  and  misery  takes  its  place, 
married  women  and  found  that  87  One  has  only  to  look  around  him 
percent  of  them  reported  their  mar-  to  see  abundant  evidence  of  the 
riages  as  happy  and  only  12  percent  breakdown  of  marriage  and  of  the 
as  unhappy.^  Burgess  and  Cottrell  untold  human  suffering  following  in 
found  that  63  percent  of  the  526  its  path.  Misunderstanding,  bewil- 
couples  they  studied  were  happy  in  derment,  heartaches,  tears,  bitter- 
marriage  and  only  about  21  percent  ness,  jealousy,  hatred— all  of  these 
were  unhappy.''  These  and  similar  and  more  are  common  in  human 
studies  show  that  according  to  the  experience,  too  common  in  fact.  In 
opinions  of  married  couples  and  1930  there  was  approximately  one 
their  friends  the  majority  of  mar-  divorce  for  every  six  marriages  in 
riages  are  happy.  This  is  indeed  an  this  country,  with  the  divorce  rate 
encouraging  sign;  but  we  must  be  continuing  to  increase.  In  addition 
careful,  just  the  same,  not  to  let  the  to  divorce,  many  families  are  broken 
appearance  of  happiness  among  the  up  through  separation  or  desertion; 
majority  blind  us  to  the  facts  of  many  more  are  living  in  a  state  of 
marriage  failure  among  the  few.  It  unhappiness,  although  holding  to- 
is  good  that  marriages  are  generally  gether  out  of  consideration  for  the 
successful,  but,  even  so,  the  fact  that  children  or  because  of  the  stigma  or 
from  9  to  21  percent  of  them  are  expense  of  divorce.  Many  of  us  know 
   families  like  these  personally,  and 
^Hornell  Hart  and  Ella  B.  Hart,  Person-  those  of  US  who  do  not  are  never- 
ahty  and  the  Family,  p.  211.  ^^^^j^^^  ^^^^  ^^U    ^^^^^  ^f  ^^^     ^^^. 
-Ibid,  p.  212.  1        i.1           1,  u     1                  • 
«E.  W.  Burgess  and  L.  S.  Cottrell,  Pie-  ^^^  through  books,  magazmes,  news- 
dicting  Success  or  Failure  in  Marriage,  p.  papers,  gOSsip,  and  the  like.    Broken 
34.  homes,  together  with  quarreling  and

502  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE—JULY,   1941 
other  conflict  situations  in  homes  all  good  heredity,  then  good  home 
that  do  not  actually  break  up,  give  and  community  training,  then  sue- 
striking  proof  of  the  reality  of  mar-  cessful  courtship,  and  finally  adjust- 
riage  failure.  ment  and  growth  throughout    the 
We  do  not  want  to  exaggerate  the  duration  of  the  marriage  contract, 
problem.    But,  on  the  other  hand,  The    early    habit    training    of    the 
neither  do  we  want  to  minimize  it,  growing  infant  or  the  courting  be- 
for  to  do  so  would  be  to  shirk  a  re-  havior  of  the  adolescent  youth  are 
sponsibility  and  to  lose  an  oppor-  equally  as  important  to  successful 
tunity  for  service.     The  happiness  marriage  as  are  the  conscious  efforts 
that  comes  from  successful  marriage  during  marriage  to  play  the  game, 
is  within  the  reach  of  everyone.  The  Marriage  fails  sometimes  because  of 
fact  that  some  have  failed  to  attain  inferior      hereditary      background, 
this  happiness  should  only  serve  to  sometimes  because  of  family  per- 
stimulate  us  to  greater  effort.  What  sonality    traits    that    can  be    laid 
can  we  do?  to  early  training,  sometimes  because 
of  unwise  courtship  behavior  or  an 
Preparation  ior  Marriage  unfortunate  choice  of  a  mate,  some- 
There  are  many  things  that  might  ^i^ies  because  of  an  unwillingness 
be  done  to  help  stabilize  the  family  ^o  cooperate  or  to  do  one's  part  m 
and  to  make  marriage  successful  in  marriage,  and  sometimes  to  other 
the  full  sense  of  the  word.  Some  f^^^^^s,  or  a  combination  of  several, 
of  these  things  have  already  been  ^^^  always,  where  marriage  fails, 
suggested  in  earlier  lessons  and  ^here  has  been  madequate  prepara- 
others  are  to  follow  throughout  the  ^^^^  ^^  ^^^  P^^^  ^^  someone, 
year.  But  first  and  foremost  of  Successful  marriage  requires  more 
them  all  is  the  idea  of  preparation  study  and  eflfort  today  than  at  any 
for  marriage.  other  period  in  the  history  of  man- 
Too  many  people  enter  matri-  kind.  This  is  because  of  both  the 
mony  without  sufficient  foresight  or  complexity  of  modern  society,  which 
training  for  the  problems  and  re-  has  weakened  the  family  in  many 
sponsibilities  that  lie  ahead.  Love  is  ways,  and  the  somewhat  artificial 
not  blind,  as  some  foolishly  believe  environment  within  which  many 
it  to  be,  but  rather  it  is  the  reward  children  are  now  reared.  In  regard 
of  understanding  and  effort.  When  to  the  first,  it  can  be  observed  that 
people  believe  love  to  be  something  the  family  is  not  now  as  simple  and 
instinctive  or  blind,  they  are  often  all-inclusive  as  it  used  to  be.  It  now 
blinded  by  this  very  belief.  Love  has  to  compete  with  a  number  of 
is  something  that  grows  and  deep-  other  agencies— such  as  the  school, 
ens  with  the  adjustment  that  two  the  place  of  employment,  and  re- 
people  are  able  to  make  to  each  creational  centers— for  the  time  and 
other,  and  intelligent  preparation  for  attention  of  its  members.  This 
marriage  is  the  first  step  in  this  ad-  means,  of  course,  that  there  isn't  as 
justment.  much  in  the  home  to  hold  it  to- 
Preparation  for  marriage  starts  gether  as  formerly,  and,  consequent- 
before  birth  and  continues  on  ly,  there  is  an  even  greater  need  for 
throughout  life.  It  involves  first  of  special  effort  or  preparation.    In  re-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
503 
gard  to  the  second  point,  it  can  be 
observed  that  in  the  days  when  fam- 
ihes  were  large  and  were  mostly  on 
the  farm,  training  was  somewhat 
spontaneous  and  natural.  Being 
close  to  nature,  children  picked  up 
a  sufficient  knowledge  of  sex  with- 
out much  formal  instruction,  and 
living  in  a  large  family  group  they 
learned  to  sacrifice,  to  cooperate,  and 
to  perform  the  necessary  household 
tasks.  But  not  so  today.  With  a 
decrease  in  the  average  size  of  the 
family  and  with  an  increase  of  the 
urban  environment,  it  becomes  in- 
creasingly necessary  to  put  forth  con- 
scious effort  in  preparation  for  mar- 
riage. 
The  Relief  Society  is  attempting 
to  do  its  part  in  meeting  this  great 
need,  as  is  shown  by  the  present 
series  of  lessons  on  foundations  for 
successful  marriage.  It  is  realized,  of 
course,  that  most  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety sisters  are  already  married,  and 
that  in  many  cases  their  children 
have  all  married  and  moved  away. 
But  it  is  still  felt  that  they  have  need 
for  education  in  family  life.  Every- 
one has.  The  younger  sisters  will 
have  children  and  adolescent  youths 
of  their  own  with  whom  to  deal,  and 
an  understanding  of  the  problems 
of  childhood  and  youth  will  help 
them  prepare  these  children  for  suc- 
cessful marriage  in  years  to  come.  In 
addition  to  this,  they  should  them- 
selves benefit  directly  through  study- 
ing and  planning  and  thus  laying 
the  foundations  for  success  in  their 
own  marriages  from  day  to  day.  The 
older  sisters  should  also  receive  di- 
rect benefit  in  most  cases,  but  aside 
from  this  they  are  in  an  excellent 
position  to  help  others— children, 
grandchildren,  or  friends.  Marriage, 
as  Latter-day  Saints  know  it,  is  eter- 
nal; but,  even  so,  making  it  succeed 
is  no  simple  task.  There  is  need 
for  the  interest  and  efforts  of  every- 
one, regardless  of  age  or  the  stage 
of  the  family  cycle  he  or  she  hap- 
pens to  be  in. 
Points  Fiom  Previous  Lessons 
You  who  have  followed  the  "Edu- 
cation for  Family  Life"  series  in  the 
Rdiei  Society  Magazine  for  the  last 
three  years  have  come  in  contact 
with  over  twenty  different  lessons 
dealing  with  the  modern  family. 
These  have  been  written  for  the  pur- 
pose of  helping  you  to  better  under- 
stand the  family,  so  that  you  can  live 
more  successfully  yourselves  and  can 
help  your  children  and  others  to  ob- 
tain greater  happiness  in  family  life. 
You  have  learned  that  the  modern 
family  is  not  always  as  successful  as  it 
should  be,  and  you  have  been  given 
a  number  of  thoughts  or  suggestions 
for  understanding  and  improving  life 
in  the  home.  Among  those  thoughts 
were  the  following: 
1.  Approach  family  problems  patiently, 
tolerantly,  and  intelligently. 
2.  Recognize  and  understand  the  fun- 
damental differences  between  the  natures 
of  men  and  women,  and  try  to  build  up  a 
complementary  cooperation  with  each  oth- 
er based  upon  these  differences. 
3.  Put  forth  a  conscious  effort  to  make 
family  life  successful;  cooperate,  avoid  the 
little  things  that  may  hurt  or  irritate,  for- 
give and  forget,  be  cheerful  and  helpful, 
et  cetera. 
4.  Grow  up  emotionally.  In  other 
words,  cultivate  unselfishness,  broadmind- 
edness,  and  tolerance  for  the  other  person. 
Feel   a   responsibility    toward  your   mate. 
5.  Make  the  home  a  place  in  which  all 
of  its  members  can  feel  secure  and  can 
have  ample  opportunity  for  personal 
growth. 
6.  Try  to  understand  the  problems  of 
your  children  at  all  ages,  adapt  yourself 
to  their  changing  needs,  help  them  over 
difficulties,  and  train  them  for  faith,  in-