The Doomsday Book Kate Thomas Just what the Doomsday Book is will, perhaps, be fastened more firmly in the mind by a brief statement of the history that preceded it. As you know, English and French history, have always been more or less interwoven, a natural event, since the English channel, a narrow sea from 21 (at the Strait of Dover) to 100 (where it joins the Atlantic ocean) miles wide, is all that separates them. As you recall your map, you go from Southampton, the port on the south coast of England, directly south across the English channel and land in Normandy, the north province of France. So you see where the closeness of the Angles, the Saxons and the Normans of early English history comes in. In the eleventh century, in the year 1042, Edward the Confessor, came to the throne. He was the last Anglo Saxon king of the old royal line, but he had been reared in Normandy and was Norman in all his tastes and friendships. He was a weak-minded and incompetent king. It is said that he could scarcely speak the English language and his court was completely composed of Norman-French. It was Edward the Confessor who first built Westminster Abbey, where he is buried. Now, a beloved and influential visitor at Edward's court was his second cousin, William the Duke of Normandy. It is thought that Edward, who had no children, promised the crown to William of Normandy. However, the Norman or Court party was opposed by the old Anglo-Saxon party under Earl Godwin and his son Harold. When Edward died at the beginning of 1066 he chose Harold to succeed him and the Viitaniemiite — "The Wise Men" (the national council) confirmed the choice. It was the day of feudalism and Harold was no sooner crowned than the Earl of Northumbria, aided by the king of Norway, came against him. This is called the Battle of Stanford, and Harold won. But his troubles were not at an end. There was another contestant to the throne. William, Duke of Normandy, expectant king of England, was hunting in his park at Ronen, France, when word was brought to him that the council of wise men had ignored his claims to the English throne and that Harold was crowned. The bow fell from his hand. "He did not speak and no one spoke to him." But he gathered a large force and only four days after Harold had won the bloody struggle with his first oppon- 508 ents, William landed on the English coast. He sent Harold the choice of deciding who was rightful heir to the throne by legal trial or single combat. Harold replied that God should judge between them and raised his forces and pet William on the field of Hastings. Harold fought bravely for his crown, but was defeated, being himself killed. The Battle of Hastings is not only fascinating to read, but it forms the theme of several novels and plays, and is a distinctive turn in the tide of English history. It took place on October 14, 1066, and gave William, Duke of Normandy, the right to and title of William the Conqueror, first Norman king of England. Thus, Normandy came under the rule of England. But the province was later won back to France (where it still stays), by Phillip of France. Now, after the conquest, times in England took a distinct Norman turn. It was the beginning of Norman architecture and other things that today interest the tourist. Perhaps some of you who have been fortunate enough to visit Mme. Taussaud's wax works remember the kind, gentle and thoroughly lovable face of William the Conqueror. He was by far the best king that England had to that date. He began by ruling gently and considerately but the Anglo-Saxon vs. Norman feeling ran high and he had to quell an Anglo-Saxon uprising in 1070 with a somewhat harsh hand. In 1072, he conquered Scotland. He practically ended the feudal system in England, for in order to know the extent of his resources in case of war and to wield all provinces into one undivided nation he had a statistical survey of England made in 1085-6. This was called by the English people the Doomsday Book, because it was as unescapable as the day of doom. The Doomsday Book is in two volumes. One is a folio (a book composed of sheets folded only once, so that the sheets make a book of the largest size) of 382 pages, the other a quarto (the sheets folded four times) of 450 pages. (A quarto is from eight and one-half to ten by thirteen inches and a folio is twice that size.) The Doomesday Book is written in Latin and on vellum (a fine parchment made of the skin of calves). It contains the names of the chief landowners, extent and value of estate, number of tenants, slaves, livestock, etc. ; how much land was wooded, how much pasture, and how much meadow. It counted the value of the whole in the time of Edward the Confessor as well as the time of William the Conqueror. The lands over which there was a dispute were also recorded. The book furnished the basis of the historical accounts of the time of the conquest and of English titles to property. To repeat, the king thus got a complete account THE DOOMSDAY BOOK 609 of the wealth of the kingdom and of the military strength of each county in case of war. From the "Encyclopedia Britannica" : The folio is written in double columns in a small but legible handwriting. It contains the descriptions of the following counties: Kent, Sussex, Surrey, Southhampton. Zerks, Wilt, Dorset. Somerset, Devon, Cornwall, Middlesex, Hereford, Bucks, Oxford, Gloucester. Worcester. Hereford, Cambridge. Huntington. Bedford, Northampton. Leicester. Warwick. Stafford Salop. Cheshire. Derby, Notts, York, and Lincoln, together with the districts of Rutland to the land between Lipan and Mersham. The second volume is in quarto, written upon 450 double pages of vellum, but in single columns (all across the page) and in large, fair writing. It contains the counties of Essex, Norfolk and Suffolk. In each shire the list of chief landowners begins first with the king's name, then the great ecclesiastical, then the great temporal proprietors, followed in many cases by the smaller proprietors being listed as "servants of the king," etc. The northern states are not described in the survey. Northumberland, Westmoreland, Cumberland, and Durham are conspicuous by their absence. Lancashire does not appear under its proper name: but Furness and the northern part of the country, as well as the northern part of Westmoreland, with a part of Cumberland, were included within the West Recline of Yorkshire. That part of Lancashire that is between the rivers Ribble and Mersey is subjoined to Cheshire: and part of Rutland is described in the countries of Worthington and Lincoln. The reasons are that the hand of conquest, even by William himself, had been laid so heavily upon these northern countries that there was nothing left to survey. The date of the Doomsday Book has been variously fixed from 1080 to 1085, and was finished in 1086. It is so accurate that its authority was never permitted to be called into question. When any ancient dominion was in doubt the Doomsday Book has been the one authority referred to to settle the matter. The Doomsday Book of England set the example for other Doomsday books or surveys to be taken. But this original one is one of the prizes of the British museum. It has been photographed, facsimiled, and republished and in recent time it has been photographed, shire by shire, and these facsimiles issued in parts. It would probably be quite possible to obtain copies for our library here. A "Standard Dictionary" extract translated from the original Latin: The king holds in Demesne Stock (Stoke). It was of the 510 - farm of King Edward. Then it furnished defense for (17) hordes. They paid no taxes. There is land for (16) carucates (ploughs). In Demesne there are (2) Carucates and (24) villeins (peasants) and (10) bordars (sides) with (20) carucates. There is a church there which William holds of the king with half a hide in frankslworjne (for religious purposes). There are (5) serfs and (2) mills of (25) shillings and (16) acres of meadow. Wood for (40) pigs and it is in the King's park. In the time of King Edward and afterwards, it was worth (12 pounds). Now (15 pounds). Nevertheless, the tenant shillings pays (15 pounds) by weight. The Sheriff has (25) (The Stoke referred to is the Stoke in Surrey.) THE VOICE OF THE UNBORN. By Frank Steele Out of the depths of the vaulted night, Out of the deep blue, silent and mild. Comes to the earth in its eager flight The cry of a little child. The voice with its sad, sad yearning, The heart of a world unfolds — The voice of the unborn turning To the love in human souls. The message, sweet as the vespers. That chime at eventide — Calls to the heart in whispers. Across the thin divide. And a host of women assemble, Waiting in tears to give Life — though they pale and tremble — Yet that unborn voice must — live. But some of the women that waited Were weak and white and wild — And they laughed when the others mated, Though they heard the voice of the child. Heard it, but lived for pleasure, And in anguish reaped the pain; For the voice of the one real treasure Never called in their ears again.