The Lost Sheep Returned Mary Foster Gibbs. "Why, Captain Barton, I am so surprised to find you in the temple, and Elzina with you. What on earth has happened?" The handsome middle-aged man with the soldierly bearing looked up, as I accosted him in the long corridor leading into the temple, and arose courteously while his wife, my dear old friend, put her arms about my neck and wept on my shoulder, her joy and gratitude. "Elzina and Cap," I said again, "what does it all mean? How is it that you are here? No one knows my own joy and gratitude at finding you here, but it is a miracle, surely nothing less than a miracle." I sat down between them while they both took my hands and tried to express their own overflowing happiness to be in that sacred place. It was not until sometime later that we could gather again in a little group and I could hear the story I was so anxious to know. We sat in a beautiful upper room of the House of the Lord, with the holy hush resting upon our spirits like a benediction, as they quietly told me the story of their long wandering in the wilderness of doubt and suffering. "Do you remember your wedding party, Elzina " I asked. "How lovely you looked and yet how my heart sank at the determined sparkle in your eyes and the obstinate set of your chin when I jollied you about the Captain and said if it wasn't for you he would be baptized and you could have gratified your father's heart by being married in the endowment house." "Indeed I do remember it and I guess it was all true, too." "Do you remember how surprised we all were. Captain, when Elzina fell in love with you. because, of course, we knew her father was one of the greatest scholars and preachers of righteousness in the Quorum of the Apostles, himself a friend of the Prophet Joseph Smith and of my father. President Young, while your mother was as devoted a Latter-day Saint as my own. "Yes, I was surprised myself," answered the Captain, but I was none the less pleased." "Do you remember the good old days when the univer- 520 sity was held in the Council House and when Dr. Park persuaded me to stay over on my way to California and teach mathematics in the struggling university?" asked the Captain, smilingly. "Yes, I should say I do remember; and will you ever forget Professor Moench's long side burns and Professor Rigg's diagraming sentences?" We whispered our gay remembrances of long-ago school days and then I turned to Elzina and said: "Dear girl, how is it that you came here?" "I am here because I know that the gospel is true and that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God, and I know that only through marriage in this temple can I belong to my husband for time and eternity, and have a claim upon our children after we leave this earth; that is why I am here." "And is your testimony the same?" "Just the same, my friend. I know what Elzina knows and I know it for myself and not for another." Elzina turned to me once more and resumed her narrative. "You will perhaps remember that we left Salt Lake City years ago and Cap. found lucrative employment, first in the east, where we lived in several large cities. My health finally failed completely and Cap. decided to take me out to California, where he again was successful in a business way. I tried all known, and some unknown doctors and schools of medicine to get back my health, but it was no use. I became weaker and suffered intensely in mind and body. At last we went to California and I joined The Christian Science church in an agonized hope that my body and spirit would acquire that peace which those people promised me would come as a part of the religion. "Did you really believe in the Christian Science teachings?" I asked, incredulously. "I can't imagine anyone as well balanced and sane as the Captain and yourself accepting such a colorless religion." "That is the point, exactly," answered my friend, "it is all negation; I was to say over and over again that I was not ill and not in pain and that I did not feel ill and I did not suffer pain." "The reason I could not fall for the religion," asserted the Captain, "was that, while the mind became drugged with a sort of negative peace, yet the spirit was obliged to deny common sympathy for the sufferings of others and common humanity for those who were afflicted with poverty or distress. I discovered there were no poor people and no sick THE RETURN OF THE LOST SHEEP. 521 people in the Christian Science church. If you were either sick or poor you could not be an orthodox Christian Scientist; but I didn't interfere with Elzina." "No. Cap let me go my way as he always had done for he knows that I wouldn't go far away from him. I guess 'Mormonism' had sunk into the very roots of my being, for, although I was better for a time, I could not get my own consent to deny the mission of the Savior nor to constantly assert that I was well when I knew that I was ill. We paid great sums of money to healers who sat by me for hours, giving me treatments and others who joined in absent treatment for my obstinate illness. "Finally I sank down into a condition resembling death itself. One morning my thoughts rested upon my father, who had been dead several years, and I cried out in the agony of my soul for his presence. Without any warning and without any special halo of light about him, but looking as he used to in life, he walked into my dreary sick chamber and sat down by my bed. I was not asleep, my friend, nor was it an hallucination. I do not assert that my father has been resurrected; I know nothing about that; but I do know that he came in and sat by my bedside and talked with me as naturally as you and I are talking just now. I asked him all the questions that had been laboring in my mind ever since I was a grown girl and he answered them one by one." "Did you ask him about celestial marriage, Elzina, for I remember that was your dreadful trial always as a girl?" "Yes; of course, I asked him about that and he told me it was a true and living principle but that it was right that the Church had set the principle aside and thus to comply with the laws of our beloved country." "And do you now accept that principle as true?" I persisted. "Yes, I do. a whimsical It is touched smile true. Just the as corners true today as it mouth of her ever was," and lighted up her speaking eyes, as she added, "you know, of course, that Cap can't go into that order now and I guess I find it easier to accept it as a principle than I would as a practice; however, I hope I should be as brave and loyal about it as my mother was before me, if I had lived in the days when she did and it was necessary for me to accept it and live it. Father went on to explain to me the atonement and showed me how far away the sects of the world had drifted from that glorious principle. How it had become spiritualized and mystified until only the husks were left; but he also told me that people who were honest and sincere in their belief would receive a just reward when they had completed their work here. He taught me how the children born under the covenant, were heirs to the great privileges and the great blessings of the gospel and how long would be their waiting period on the other side if they did not accept the truth and live up to the principles revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith by our Savior himself. Oh, it was all so beautiful, so heavenly that my soul was carried away in blissful communing and gratitude that my father in heaven could permit my earthly father to visit me and satisfy my soul. "How about you, Cap., did you have any manifestation?" "None at all," he replied, "I did not need any. I knew how rigidly truthful my wife had always been and when she told me her story the light of truth so glorified her in my eyes that she was almost transfigured before me. It is trueapproached the Lord in prayer so that my spirit might be completely satisfied and I received my answer." "How glorious, how beautiful and how satisfying!" I exclaimed. "Yes," replied Elzina. "But you have never needed such a testimony as I received for you have never wandered in the dark for years like I have done." "But was your mind afflicted as well as your body, Elzina?" "Indeed it was, beyond power of description. It was like two angels using my soul as a battle ground. One pleading for light and truth and the other fighting to destroy my every hope and which every joy. I endured, but ' II cannot do know describe the or what hell mental suffering condemnation consists of for I passed through it off and on for years and nearly lost my reason before I finally reached the point where I could pray to our Heavenly Father for an answer which he graciously granted." "Were you sick long after that?" "No, I was almost instantly healed and that was a testimony to our growing children, beside the healing of my body they were all so happy over the joy of my mind and the perfect peace which pervaded our household. As soon as Cap could arrange our business and close out all our affairs, we came here, and now I am with you in this temple." My friend did not live many years after this episode. She did not suffer her last sickness but quietly passed to the Great Beyond where she is now rejoicing in the society of her mighty father and her loving mother. Her husband married again. They have entered into the celestial order THE RETURN OF THE LOST SHEEP 523 of marriage for eternity, as is the only right way possible today for those who marry. The Captain has now two good wives, but one was dead before he married the second time. For several months my friends did work for their dead kindred in the temple and I once asked the Captain, whom I knew to be a Mason of the highest degree possible, what he thought of our wonderful, beautiful, and gloriously symbolic ordinances in the temple. I had heard the silly stories about the prophet and the rites of Masonry and I was anxious to know what the Captain would say. His reply was: "I think few men, unless they have had my experience, could appreciate the marvelous revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith when he organized the endowment ceremonies. If I had no other testimony of the truth of 'Mormonism' than what I have received in working in this temple, it would be sufficient to satisfy my soul and to save me in the kingdom of God if I lived worthy of that testimony. Masonry, like all other similar organizations, from the days of Solomon all down through Oriental history across to the plains of Babylon and the sands of Egypt, resembles these marvelous endowment as the Arabian and Chinese Bibles resemble the Holy Scriptures. There is a germ of truth in all spurious religions and false ceremonials and their shadowy resemblances can be traced through ancient Egypt down to modern China and into the vastness of Thibet; but the mind of an intelligent man is never satisfied with such husks nor exhalated by these shadowy resemblances to truth. The effulgent light of the gospel never shone more brightly through the medium of the Prophet's revealing mind than in the symbolic ceremonies which form the endowment privileges to the Latter-day Saints who are worthy to receive them." These testimonies of my friend's were, and are, true! And when I think of my lovely friend, Elzina, happy in her heavenly home, engaged there, no doubt, in assisting her parents in the conversion of spirits in paradise while her husband trains his growing family by the aid of his other good wife in righteousness, my soul rejoices and is lifted up in praise to God. (Note: This is a true story. Only the names are fictitious.) Care of Clothing What Do You Want of Your Clothing? You must answer that question before you can plan wisely. Do you not want these things: Protection from cold, heat, moisture, and rough surfaces. Freedom in movement, breathing, and standing. Beauty: You will get this by choosing materials, colors, and designs suited to you and your occupation. Self respect: Clothing which is appropriate, becoming, inconspicuous, clean, neat, and within our means makes ourselves and our neighbors think well of us. What Kinds of Clothing Do You Need? Have you tried thinking of the different kinds of garments? How many of each should you have? They can be put into three groups. Outer clothing. Coats and sweaters; suits; dresses; blouses, shirts, and waists; skirts; trousers; hats and caps; gloves and mittens; boots, shoes, and overshoes; gaiters, and leggings; furs. Underclothing. Knitted vests, underdrawers, and union suits; drawers; corsets and under waists; chemises, corset-covers, and combinations; petticoats; stockings and socks; suspenders and garters; nightdresses, nightshirts, and pajamas; bathrobe and wrappers. Accessories. Collars and cuffs; belts; handkerchiefs; mufflers and scarfs; veils; handbags and pocketbooks; umbrella; etc. Care and Findings. You need to think, too, of the cost of cleaning, repairs, renovation, and remodeling. If you sew at home you will need needles, pins, thread, sewing silk, buttons, hooks and eyes, snap-fasteners, tape, braid, and other findings. How Much Should You Spend. About how much did you spend for each group last year? Does this seem a good apportionment of the money you spend for the family clothing? Outer clothing 70 per cent.