Summary of Woman's Position in Newly-Enfranchised Countries Austria — Women have votes on the same terms as men. Two million women voted in January, 1919. There are eight women M.P.'s, twenty-two city councilors, one deputy mayor, and one hundred and twenty-six municipal councilors. British East India — Women got votes and legibility in 1919, on equal terms for white men and white women. They were enfranchised together. Canada — Women have votes on equal terms. The federal amendment is not yet ratified. Women have not yet voted in federal elections, but have in state elections, where three women members of state parliaments have been elected. Crimea — (the first Mohammedan country to give votes to women. Women got votes on equal terms in December, 1917. Eighty-three per cent voted, and five women were elected, one of whom is vice-president of the diet. Czecho-Slovakia — Women have votes on same terms as men. Thirteen women members are in the lower house, and three in the second chamber. Denmark — Municipal vote in 1908 and parliamentary vote on equal terms in 1915. Women voted in 1918 and 1920 and they have now four women members in each house. They have passed a law for equal pay, equal admission to all posts, and equal status in marriage. Estonia — Women have votes on same terms as men, and there are five women members of parliament. Germany — Women got votes on equal terms in 1918, eight weeks before the elections. Twenty million women are enfranchised, and 70 to 90 per cent have voted. They had thirty-nine M.P.'s in last national assembly, 155 in state legislatures, and 4,000 city and municipal councilors. In the new elections thirty women have been elected to the Reichstag. Great Britain — Women got votes on different terms and at a different age in 1918. They voted in 1918, and have one woman M.P., and many city and municipal councilors. Holland — (See Netherlands.) Hungary — Women got votes in November, 1918. All men have it at twenty-one, women, if they can read and write, have it at twenty-four. Having no constitution, they fear they may lose it again. One woman was elected at a byelection. They have not yet got the municipal suffrage, as SUMMARY OF WOMAN'S POSITION 531 no municipal government at present exists, for men or women. Iceland — Women have votes on equal terms, and it is part of the new constitution. They have had city councilors for a long time, but have no woman member. Lettonia — Men and women both got votes on equal terms in 1918. Five women have been elected to parliament, and many to city councils. Lithuania — Men and women both got votes on equal terms in 1920. Five women have been elected to parliament. Luxembourg — Women got votes on equal terms with men (at the age of twenty). They have voted twice, first in the referendum, and then in the elections. One woman is a member of parliament. Netherlands — Bill giving women votes on same terms (at twenty-five) passed in May, 1919, and received royal assent in September, 1919. One and a half million women are enfranchised. They have not voted yet, but will in 1922. They have, however, been eligible for some years, and both in 1916 and 1918 two women M.P.'s were elected; one in each chamber. They have eighty-eight women on city councils and some aldermen (elected by men only.) Poland — Women have votes on equal terms with men, and eligibility. Rhodesia — Women got votes on equal terms in 1919, and one woman M.P. has been elected. Russia — Women got votes on equal terms during the first revolution, and several women served in parliament and in the cabinet. Sweden — Women got votes on same terms in 1918, but it will not be ratified till after the autumn elections. It will be through by February, 1921, and they will vote in the following autumn. There will be about 1,600,000 women voters. At present there are about 400 city and municipal councilors. Ukraine — Women and men got votes on equal terms in 1917. They voted in 1919, and nine women were elected to parliament. Civil service opened to both, and equal pay given. United States — Federal amendment giving votes in all states on equal terms has been passed, but is still awaiting ratification. Thirty-five states have ratified. One more is required. One woman has been a member of congress. In addition to these national suffrage victories, several other advances have been reported: Serbia has granted municipal suffrage to women. Belgium has granted municipal suffrage to women. Romania has granted municipal suffrage to women. Zionists of Palestine have full equal suffrage and eligibility. The Commune of Fiume has granted full equal suffrage and eligibility.