GUIDE LESSONS. LESSON II. BOOK OF MORMON— BIBLE TESTIMONY. Second Week in September. THAT DAY WHEN THE BOOK SHOULD COME FORTH. Text: "Biblical World"; Isaiah 29:17, 18; "Millennial Star," Vol. 15, page 788. Aim or central truth — God's purposes are accomplished in 648 conformity to law and order and through the agency of his servants. In our last lesson eight propositions were formulated, but only the first five were considered. In this lesson the remainder of propositions six, seven, and eight, will form the basis for the discussion. Proposition six asserts that since its dedication by Elder Orson Hyde, in the year 1841, the Holy Land has been, and still is, preparing for the reception of dispersed Israel. At the time of Elder Hyde's visit, there were only ten thousand Jews in all Palestine; in 1895, this number had increased to twenty-five thousand; in 1900, there were one hundred thousand. ("Biblical World.") And early in January, of this year, it was announced by the Zionist organization of America, in behalf of Dr. Jerzy Rosenblatt, a member of the Polish diet, that one hundred Jewish families, averaging five persons to a family, were then ready to emigrate from Poland to Palestine. It was further stated that in Lodz alone 2,000,000 rubles had been subscribed for industrial undertakings in Palestine. Anent the foregoing, the "Deseret News," in its issue of January 26, of this year, had the following to say: The Jews and Their Real Fatherland. There is an economical movement in progress on the other side of the water that promises to become a feature of special moment in current history. It Is an exodus of Jews from Poland and adjacent countries toward Palestine in a wave of such proportions and momentum as to sweep away all barriers opposed to it. Already the news has reached, it would seem, the remotest quarters of the earth that the Holy Land has been emphatically redeemed by the British from the demoralization obtaining under Turkish mis-rule for 500 years, and rehabilitation is now progressing under Christian rule at a marvelous pace. To a people like Polish and Russian speaking Jews who for centuries have felt the heel of the oppressor on their necks, and have suffered the horrors of blood, lust, robbery, and rapine, for racial and religious reasons, this opening of the gates of opportunity for escape into the land of ancestral promise, the country where the Hebrew people saw their birth as a nation 3,000 years ago, and whose traditional memories are welded into their racial existence, has proven too alluring to be resisted. Like a prairie fire, the spirit of another exodus is sweeping over central Europe, and to many a Jew it seems like a divine call to strike their tents, to flee from this second land of Egypt to the land of Canaan which the British are remolding into what is likely to become once more "a land flowing with milk and honey." The descendants of Richard the Lion-hearted have reconstructed the great aqueduct built by Pontius Pilate from Hebron to Jerusalem; the city of David is cleaned and placed in a sanitary condition; telephones, electric lights, electric GUIDE LESSONS 641 cars and other valuable public utilities are being installed, it is proposed to built a conduit from the Mediterranean, under the Jordan valley, divide the foot of the Sea of Tiberias for power purposes, roads are being built, the country ridded of bandits, schools and higher institutions established, agriculture is being taught industries introduced, freedom of worship guaranteed; and last, but by no means least, an American newspaper man with full publishing equipment and staff of reporters, is said to be enroute to Jerusalem to publish the "Jerusalem News," in English, and promising to "print the news and the truth about it." Truly a grand transformation is going on in the Holy Land, a change that will command increasing attention! While political events have combined in these later years to bring about the political freedom of Palestine and her people, until men's hope runs high in the breast of every son of Judah because of the declaration which the British government has made, promising him to build up a national home for his people in Palestine, other factors, physical in their nature, have been busy redeeming the desert and waste places until today Lebanon has been turned into a fruitful field and a fruitful field is certainly esteemed as a forest, as was foreseen by Isaiah. "And in that day should the Book come forth." Chief among these physical features is the return of the rain and dew as was promised by Elder Hyde in his prayer of dedication. The following disinterested testimony in this connection will be interesting: I see manifest signs and tokens that the Holy Land is preparing for the people, and that the people are preparing for the Holy Land. If I turn to Palestine. I perceive "indications" the most distinct that God is returning to water its desolate places, and clothe its mountains once more with beauty and fragrance. The clouds are again dropping fatness upon its desert places, and many of Its wildernesses are beginning to blossom in promise that they shall bloom in due time like the rose. I know not whether you are aware of the fact, but it is one that is fully authenticated, that the "latter rain" returned last year (1853) to Mount Zion — a rain that has been withheld, so far as our information goes, ever since the dispersion of the people. And he who has brought back the "latter rain" in its season, will also give the "former rain" in its season. • * * There is another fact which, though small In itself, is not a less striking one, the well of Erogel (or Jehoshaphat) (Joe's well), supplies the little stream that waters the once blooming vale of Jehoshaphat. That well, in Israel's balmy days of plenty and of peace, used to overflow every year, and its overflow fed the streams that, diverted into various channels and gathered into reservoirs prepared for the purpose, provided a supply of water for each season, and so the valley was made to bloom as the garden of the Lord. But on account of the wickedness of the people, the supply of water from that well was long diminished. For centuries the well of Enrogel has, it is supposed, 550 overflowed but once in the four or five years; but during the last four years, (1850, or nine years after the dedicatory prayer was offered), since Christianity has been shedding its light on Mount Zion, and the first fruits of Israel have been gathering in, the well has overflowed year by year again. The little stream has trickled along its course annually, with its sweet silvery music; the various reservoirs and tanks have been replenished; and the vale of Jehoshaphat is beginning again to blush with the vine and to wave with the cedar. (Rev. Hugh Stowell, and Hon. Canon of Chester in the "Scottish Presbyterian Magazine," "Millennial Star," Vol. 15, page 788.) I arrived from India a few days since from the eastern continent. I stopped at Jappa for nearly the whole winter. For my part, I was well pleased with the country of Palestine. It is certainly a land of the most wonderful resources, with a delightful climate producing everything. If properly cultivated, it will produce from two to three crops a year. They have grain, fruits and vegetables all the year round. In fact, I never was in such a country before. I have seen good country in England and America, but none to compare with Palestine. Its fruitfulness is uncommon and the climate is the most delightful. Even in winter I did not see the least sign of frost, and vegetables of every sort were growing in the gardens. It is a fact that the rain and dew were restored recently. In 1853, the "early" and "latter" rains were restored to the astonishment of the natives. (Louis VanBuren in a currant periodical, November 14, 1867.) The British government has made a Jew, Sir Herbert Samuel, high commissioner of Palestine. We quote from the Boston "Transcript," June 14, 1920: To Reclaim the Holy Land. Nathan Straus, of New York, Supreme Court Justice Brandeis, and Rabbi S. S. Wise, of New York, are sailing for Europe on the S. S. Lapland, enroute to Palestine for a visit of inspection. London, June 14. — The general principles which will be followed by the new administration in Palestine were announced yesterday by Sir Herbert Samuel, high commissioner for Palestine. Sir Herbert said: "Complete religious liberty will be maintained in Palestine. Places sacred to the great religions will remain in control of the adherents of those religions. Civilian administration for the country will be established immediately. The higher ranks will consist of British officials of ability and experience. The other ranks will be open to the local population, irrespective of creed. Order will be firmly enforced. The economic development of the country will be actively promoted." In accordance with the decision of the Allied and associated powers, measures will be adopted to reconstruct the Jewish National Home in Palestine. The yearnings of the Jewish people for two thousand years, of which the modern Zionist movement is the latest expression, will at last be realized. The steps taken to this end will be consistent with the scrupulous respect for the rights of the present non-Jewish inhabitants. The country has room for a larger population than it now contains, and Palestine, properly provided with roads, railways, harbors, and electric power, with the soil more highly cultivated, the waste lands reclaimed, forests planted and malaria extirpated, with town and village industries encouraged, can maintain a large additional GUIDE LESSONS 551 population, not only without hurt, but, on the contrary, with much advantage to the present inhabitants. Immigration of the character that is needed will be admitted into the country in proportion as its development allows employment to be found. Above all, educational and spiritual influences will be fostered in the hope that once more there may radiate from the Holy Land the moral forces of service to mankind. These are the purposes which, under superintendence of the League of Nations, the British government in the exercise of its mandate for Palestine will seek to promote. It is interesting to note, in this connection, that ten years ago, the Rothschilds sent an agent to the Agricultural College of Logan to study irrigation under Dr. John A. Widtsoe; and later Dr. Widtsoe's book on "Irrigation" was translated into French and Arabian for the use of the peoples, both of Palestine and Egypt, and forms the basic study for those distant lands in reclaiming the ancient wilderness. Just this month, July, two visitors from Palestine visited Dr. Widtsoe and secured permission to publish his book in modern Hebrew. "Out of Zion shall go forth the law" to redeem Jerusalem. In conclusion it might be asked what are we going to do with this testimony? It is more than coincidence. Who would attempt a scientific explanation? It is nothing short of the literal fulfilment of ancient prophecy, the age of miracles come again. In that day when these things should come to pass another very important thing should happen. "And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness." If the "Book of Mormon" is not the "Book," then we must await its coming which cannot be for long, else the ancient prophecy has no place in the "Book of Truth." QUESTIONS. 1. What are the eight propositions laid down in the former lesson? 1. Why do we say that Jerusalem is the fatherland of the Jews? 3. What is the climate of Palestine? 4. What are the resources of Palestine? 5. Why do the inhabitants of Palestine need to practice irrigation? 6. What do you know of the science of irrigation? 7. Who is Sir Herbert Samuels? 552 , ' LESSON . LITERATURE. (Optional) Some of Tennyson's Minor Poems. Some of Tennyson's poems might almost be styled wisdom literature; at all events they deal with the deep problems of life and death. "Tithonus," a poem with a Greek name, presents one of life's problems. We have, in this ancient gentleman, one who is destined to live the mortal life, forever, because, forsooth, favored of the Gods, he had asked for immortality. Then he sees all things about him die in season and refresh themselves again, while he alone wanders a "whitehaired shadow roaming like a dream." He watches the spring come forth in all its loveliness and freshness, and in the agony of his soul cries out, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall. The vapors weep their burden to the ground, Man comes and tills the earth and lies beneath. And after many a summer dies the swan. Me only cruel immortality consumes; I wither slowly in thine arms. Here at the quiet limit of the world." In this same anguish, Tithonus cries to the gods, to take back their gift, moaning: "Why should a man desire in any way To vary from the kindly race of men Or pass beyond the goal of ordinance. Where all should praise as is most meet for all?" Sometimes we hear people express themselves in a fashion that would lead us to believe that they are just a little like Tithonus. They are like him in that they wish they might live forever or that their loved ones might live forever. Tennyson, in using this old Greek legend, would have us understand that no matter how natural and innate the longing for immortality may be, it must come in the manner in which God has provided, and not in a way man might suggest, for death as well as life is of God's order. The "Ancient Sage" is another poem full of profound thought. The very name suggests wisdom. In the "Ancient Sage" we have the picture of one who has sounded the depths GUIDE LESSONS 653 of knowledge and knows that wisdom lies beyond, and who having done so, instructs others thus: "Thou canst not prove the nameless, O my son, Nor canst thou prove the world thou movest in, Thou canst not prove that thou art body alone. Nor canst thou prove that thou art spirit alone, Nor canst thou prove that thou art both in one. Thou canst not prove thou art immortal — no. Nor yet that thou art mortal — nay, my son, Thou canst not prove that I, who speak with thee, Am not thyself in converse with thyself, For nothing worthy proving can be proved. Nor yet disproven, therefore thou be wise, Cleave ever to the sunnier side of doubt. And cling to faith beyond the forms of faith! "She reels not in the storm of warring words. She brightens at the clash of 'yes' and 'no.' She sees the best that glimmers through the worst, She feels the sun is hid but for a night, She spies the summer through the winter bud, She tastes the fruit before the blossom falls, She hears the lark within the songless egg, She finds the fountain where they wailed mirage!" Many of the most vital truths of existence are not capable of the kind of proof that scholars choose to call scientific; this, no doubt, is one of the reasons why it is impossible to please God without faith. In "Lady Clara Vere de Vere," we find a stanza reading: 'Trust me. Clara Vere de Vere, From yon blue heavens above us bent. The garden Adam and his wife Smile at the claims of long descent, However it be, it seems to me, 'Tis only noble to be good. Kind hearts are more than coronets, And simple faith than Norman blood." The British people accepted this as a statement of Tenny- 554 son's democratic outlook on life; nor did they feel that he had marred the statement, even when he was raised to the peerage. Another quotation from Tennyson, occurring in Locksley Hall, has received marked attention from orators and writers in the decade that has just past. It reads, "I, the heir of all the" ages in the foremost files of time." Here the poet gratefully acknowledges the debt of humanity to a past rich in religion, philosophy, science, art, and music. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Read Tithonus through with care, and determine what great lesson it teaches. 2. Do you fancy that living forever in the mortal state could bring happiness to anyone? Give your reasons for the stand you take. 3. John the Revelator and the three Nephites are permitted to remain upon the earth until Christ's second coming. In order to do this, did they undergo any change? Why were they thus privileged? 4. What characteristic of the swan's life leads the poet to say, "And after many a summer dies the swan."? 5. Give evidence of the truth of the statement — that "nothing worthy proving can be proved." 6. How does this support the stand taken by the Latter day Saints that though they may be unable to prove to another that Jesus is the Christ, yet they may know positively that he is the Christ. 7. What do you think Tennyson meant when he styled us heirs of all the ages? 8. Name some religious leaders of the past to whom we are indebted. 9. Name some musicians of the past whose music still enriches our lives. Some poets. Some artists. 10. Quote lines from Tennyson that indicate his democratic attitude towards life. GUIDE LESSONS 655 LESSON IV. HEALTH. PERSONAL HYGIENE. Fourth Week in September. Personal Cleanliness: External: Skin, Hair, Nails. Mode of life and character of skin determine almost entirely the frequency with which bathing is necessary to keep the skin fit for the important function of eliminating body wastes. Naturally, the skin of one whose occupation induces much perspiration requires more frequent cleansing than that of one whose life is of a more sedentary nature. Ordinarily, the housewife, spending several hours a day over a cook stove, perspires more freely, and therefore requires more frequent bathing than does the woman who spends her day at office work, or work of similar nature. Some skins are so sensitive to soap and water that a daily bath is impracticable because of the dry, prickly sensation it causes. In such cases, a daily sponge in cool or tepid water is suggested. The degree in which the general health is affected by unclean hair and an unhealthy scalp is difficult to determine but it will be noticed that a rundown, unhealthy body condition is usually accompanied by stringy, depressed looking hair. A really diseased scalp is, of course, a case for a specialist, but all ordinary cases may be treated at home. Dandruff may be removed by massaging the scalp with the tips of the fingers, never scratching with the nails or with a comb. The massage should be given every day, followed by a thorough brushing of the scalp with a medium stiff brush, both for removing loosened dandruff, and for additional stimulation to the scalp. Where the scalp is very dry, a little olive oil rubbed in with the finger tips will be helpful. Tincture of green soap is good for shampooing very oily hair, but in cases of little or no surplus oil, a milder soap is suggested. Lemon juice added to the rinsing water will tend to neutralize alkali remaining in the hair from the soap used, and will leave the hair soft and fluffy. Under ordinary circumstances, a shampoo once in two weeks will be sufficient, but when the hair is exposed to much smoke and dust, a shampoo every week may be necessary. In the days of our grandmothers, finger nails were thought to be poisonous because it was noticed that infection often followed a scratching of the skin with the nails. Later, it became known that the infection was caused by bacteria lodged under the loose ends of the nails, and under the scarf skin at their base. A good nail brush of medium stiffness with plenty of soap and warm water should keep the nails 556 clean. An additional treatment of hydrogen peroxide applied by means of a little cotton on the flat end of an orange stick should be helpful. Personal Cleanliness: Internal: Mouth, Teeth, Digestive Tract. Owing to much recent agitation on the subject, laymen as well as physicians, are coming to know that the general health is greatly affected by the condition of the mouth and teeth. Rheumatism, malnutrition, indigestion, in some of their forms, are all directly traceable to the ulceration which sometimes accompanies decayed teeth, and in many cases where medicine was formerly prescribed, a trip to the dentist is now advised. Of little use are the lessons of civilization in the handling and storage of food materials, the careful and scientific preparation of dainty dishes in our kitchens, if food is to be defiled by entering the body through an unclean doorway, carrying with it bacteria and products of putrefying food particles, lodged in and about the teeth. Public school nurses, popular medical articles, and various other agencies are suggesting good mouth treatments. One which is simple and effective follows: Rinse the mouth thoroughly before and after each meal with a weak salt solution; brush the teeth at least once a day with a medium brush, or with the finger using salt, which cleans all particles and tartar from the mouth and teeth, using an "up and down" or slightly rotary motion, giving at least thirty strokes to each section of the mouth. Tooth picks are taboo; dental floss is advised for removing particles of food from around the teeth. In addition to its important function of preparing food for body uses, the digestive tract as a sewer, carries away undigested food materials, products of katabolism, etc. When food is allowed to collect and remain in the bowel day after day at a temperature of approximately 98.5 degrees F., the condition becomes truly appalling. Products of decomposing food — poisonous in their action on the body, are absorbed through the intestinal walls and circulated in the blood stream, causing headache, dizziness, nausea, and many other ills. The skin, trying to do the work of the clogged sewer, is overworked, and breaks out in eruptions of various kinds. To avoid constipation, drink large quantities of water, especially between meals; eat at regular intervals meals consisting of (a) coarse breads; (b) vegetables, particularly those containing large quantities of cellulose, e.g. string beans, asparagus, celery; (c) fresh fruits; (d) plenty of nuts, raisins, figs and dates; take plenty of exercise in the sunshine and GUIDE LESSONS 657 open air. Before taking drugs, try mineral oil or agar-agar as cures for constipation; the former acts a lubricant, the latter as a mechanical irritant increasing the peristaltic action of the bowel. Living Habits: Body Nourishment; Work, Exercise, Recreation, Rest. In general, the suggestions given in a previous lesson for feeding children apply to adults. After the growing period, however, the amount of protein food per pound body weight decreases. Often in actual dietaries, the amount is increased, men, and women, too, eating heavily of meat two or three times a day. A quarter pound of meat a day is considered sufficient for persons not engaged in hard, manual labor; bread, butter, milk, eggs, cereals, vegetables, and fruit making up the remainder of the day's dietary. Regularity of meals and unhurried eating cannot be too strongly urged since the digestive system requires as careful treatment as any other delicately adjusted machine. Regular exercise prevents and cures other bodily ills besides constipation. All ordinary types of work may be made to serve the purpose of exercise, i.e., bodily health and development, provided one is careful to maintain correct body posture, breathe deeply, and vary movement as much as possible in order to bring various muscle systems into action. Jean Valjean as a galley slave requesting to change position in rowing so as to develop both arms equally, is an example to all who find little or no time for physical exercise as such. As all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy, so is John made a dull man and Jane a dull woman; each day's plans, therefore, should include time for recreation and rest. Let us take the literal meaning of recreation — a making new of tired brain, muscles, and nerves by such methods of enjoyment as do not entail effort great enough to justify the term "pleasure exertion" so aptly applied to a pleasure excursion "Josiah Allen's wife" described in her humorous writings. Rest and sleep may be synonymous, but it is wise to plan a few minutes relaxation in a busy day before the coming of night with its relief of sleep. Occasionally, we see a genius who can live and work effectively year after year, taking only five or six hours sleep in the twenty-four, but the average adult requires seven or eight hours. I QUESTIONS. 1. What may determine the frequency with which cleansing baths are taken? 2. Outline a treatment for dandruff. Discuss the shampoo. 3. Wherein is the danger from finger nail wounds? Describe methods of keeping nails clean. 4. What are some of the dangers from unclean mouth and teeth? 5. Outline a simple method of keeping mouth and teeth clean. 6. Mention some bad effects of allowing the bowel to become clogged. 7. What course may be taken to avoid constipation? 8. Mention simple non-medical treatments for constipation. 9. What difference is found between the protein requirement of children and adults? 10. What should the daily diet of an average adult contain? 11. Of what value is physical exercise? How may the day's work be made to serve as exercise? 12. What is the real meaning of "recreation"? 13. How much sleep does the average adult require? MY THANKS. Addie S. Pace. I thank thee, Lord, for the morning, With its freshness and hopes born anew. For holy ambitions returning For some work divine to do. I thank thee. Lord, for the noon-tide, With its heat and arduous strife; That I find in endeavor a foretaste Of the new and eternal life. I thank thee. Lord, for the evening. With its rest and quietude. For the security felt in the shadow Of thy perfect and sweet solitude. I The Office has on hand the following I bound volumes of the , of ] which they will be glad to dispose at the prices quoted below: 15 Vol. of 1915, Cloth Bound 1.751 3 " " 1916, Leather Bound 2.00 f i 3 " " 1918, Leather Bound 2.00 5 " " 1919, Leather Bound 2.25 I 15c extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the , r Room 29 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah Gospel Doctrine Selections Writings of President from Sermons Joseph and F. FOUND!! Smith.A waterless — odorless — sanitary The Quorums Melchizedek have adopted GOSPEL Priesthood approved and guaranteed DOCTRINE as a text for class INDOOR CHEMICAL TOILET study for the next two years. t contains 700 pages, with a photogravure Frontispiece and For rural homes, schools, autograph of President Smith. churches, summer cottages, fact Handsome bound In cloth, $1.50 stories, etc. postpaid. Price Get 15c the 'Qulde" to go with It. It abolishes the unsanitary, foul, DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE unhealthy disease breeding and I 6 MAIN STREET inconvenient OUT DOOR TOILET The UTAH I STATE I Manufactured by NATIONAL! The BANK The officers are I always glad to! Dail steel Products Company meet customers Lansing, Michigan. and discuss