[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 543 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message Light and Truth Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths To Live By Alice Colton Smith Message 1 Light and Truth Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: ''The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth'' (D&C 93:36). By becoming responsive to the promptings of the Holy Ghost we have special access to light and truth. "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth" (D&C 93:36). Every clear night since man has walked the earth, if he has looked up, he has seen the works of God. He has sensed the mystery of the Lord's awesome intelligence. The Lord said to Moses millenniums ago:... The heavens, they are many, and they cannot be numbered unto man; but they are numbered unto me, for they are mine. And as one earth shall pass away, and the heavens thereof even so shall another come; and there is no end to my works, neither to my words. For behold, this is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man (Moses 1:37-39). In these three verses one makes a startling discovery. In the midst of his continuing cosmic creation, and he must be very busy, God is concerned and interested in each man who lives on this earth, which earth is only one of countless worlds. In the face of earth's billions of inhabitants, man sometimes feels he is insignificant and his life meaningless. Often he is tense, anxious, fearful, and frustrated, trying, in the face of material affluence or poverty, to find a meaning to life, standards to live by, courage to go on, faith to believe in, and hope to sustain him. Where can he find these? If he will listen to the promptings of the Holy Ghost, called the Comforter, he will be reminded that the earth was formed for his benefit and training, that its Creator is vitally, intimately, ultimately interested in him, and that Jesus Christ, immortal and divine, is his Friend and Redeemer, and that there is a glorious purpose in his life. The Holy Ghost brings man assurance of that purpose and gives him peace. The blessing of such extraordinary understanding is given him when he is confirmed. Man attunes himself to this special knowledge available through the Holy Ghost by righteous desire and living, which include faith, prayer, study, practice, and listening to the Holy Ghost with a receptive mind. To man is given understanding of "all things which are expedient unto the children of men" (D&C 18: 18), discernment of "the peaceable things of the kingdom" (D&C 39:6), and special knowl- 

543 July 1967

 edge that "he (Moroni 10:7). Armed with these particular enlightenments, we are to live [Christ] is" virtuously and be "full of charity towards all men" (D&C 121:45). The Holy Ghost, then, will be our constant companion. HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Family Protection wWills Estate-Planning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: To show that estate-planning and the making of a will are important for the well-being of the survivors. NOTE: This discussion has been written to give a general understanding of the subject since the actual laws regarding estate-planning and wills differ in the various areas of the world. INTRODUCTION All of us are concerned with the business of living of providing for the wants and needs of our families but not all of us are aware that providing for the future after we are gone and preparing a will is one of the most important parts of the business affairs of a family. Certainly none of us would willfully neglect our families or fail to provide for them, and yet, when we fail to make a will, this is exactly what we are doing depriving them of the support and the means which should rightfully be theirs but for our negligence. After we are gone, it is too late to determine what should be done with our means and our property.. It is too late, then, to decide who will own our homes, drive our cars, wear our favorite jewelry, or who will benefit from our careful management of stocks and bonds 544 over the years. Even though we may have told everyone just how we wanted our things distributed, there is no assurance that our desires will be carried out. It is entirely possible that they cannot be. In death, we cannot take our material possessions with us, neither can we dispose of them as we wish. We won't be here, and whatever we leave will be distributed in accordance with the prevailing laws of intestacy, which govern when a person dies without a will. These laws vary from state to state and from country to country, but the distribution is fixed by these laws and our wishes do not control. Sometimes family members who might and should have benefited are dead and buried before a judgment is finally handed down, and some entire estates are consumed before the litigation is completed. WHAT IS A WILL? In simple terms, a will is the legal statement of a person's wishes concerning the disposal of his property after death. A will may be fairly simple or extremely complex, but, in either case, it must conform to certain legal requirements. It should not be executed without legal advice, because the absence of certain formalities may invalidate
