[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 529 | Fiction | Notes From the Field | ]
Tried Singing Mothers; Sewing and Sowing Bazaars. "Collapsible booths decorated in Relief Society colors displayed articles and home-baked items which were made by the mission Relief Society presidency. Price tickets were decorated and threaded through knitting needles. Table favors consisted of pin cushions made from different colors of foam in which were placed needles made from dowling and threaded with various colored ribbons. "Through the many miles traveled to reach each district in the mission with this conference material, the needs and spirit of sisterhood found in Relief Society reached and touched the hearts of many sisters."

[Notes From the Field]

529 July 1967

 Finnish Mission Relief Society Seminar November 5, 1966 Pauline Poulsen, Supervisor, Finnish Mission Relief Society, reports: "A lovely new chapel in Turku was the site of a mission-wide Relief Society seminar, planned and directed by the mission Relief Society presidency: Liisa Uusitalo, President; Mirjam Haglund and Sylvi Hankiala, Counselors; and Lea Kulju, Secretary. In attendance were approximately 200 sisters, representing eighteen branches of the mission. The seminar consisted of a special demonstration of the preparation and preservation of foods, the presentation of a visiting teacher film 'Unto the Least of These,' musical demonstrations and instructions, homemaking helps, and general directions for strengthening Relief Society in the mission. Another feature of the conference was a breakfast for branch and district Relief Society presidents, hosted by the mission Relief Society. The seminar came to a close with a testimony meeting, which featured a combined Singing Mothers chorus. All sisters present were thrilled with the true spirit of sisterhood that prevailed, and returned to their branches newly invigorated with the joy of serving and being a part of this marvelous organization. "Many sisters attended the seminar in the Finnish national costume. The mission Relief Society President Liis Uusitalo is standing in the front row, center, with a white band on her hair." West Covina Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Christmas Concert December 1966 Front row, left to right: Virginia Eves, guest organist; Jeannine Lauderman, stake organist; Elfreda Clark, soloist; eleventh from the left: Counselor LaVonne Howe; and to the right of Sister Howe, left to right: Marcelle C. Jones, President, West Covina Stake Relief Society; Oa J. Cannon, member, General Board of Relief Society; Felice Smith, stake chorister; at the right: Blenavond Curtis, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Jones reports: "The concert was an outstanding presentation, with approximately 725 guests in attendance. Stake President Mark W. Smith, after our first Christmas concert in 1964, requested the stake Singing Mothers to enhance the true Christmas spirit by presenting such a concert each December. We have done so, for the two following years, and we feel that each one has been a delight, for the Singing Mothers to present an outstanding spiritual message through music and story to those in attendance. The annual concert has been 'our gift' to the stake, and no charge has been made for attendance at the concerts." Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society Conference Veracruz, Mexico, September 10, 1966 Fannie B. Hatch, Supervisor, Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: "This was the first conference for our women organized on a missionwide basis, and we were delighted that so many were able to come to Veracruz from the districts in the mission. President Berta Morales writes: "There are dates in the history of the Church which we always remember with love and emotion. They bring into our hearts a living strength that inspires us always to go forward. In the future, one of these dates will be September 10, 1966, for on this day a group of faithful members attended the first Relief Society General Conference for the Southeast Mexican Mission. The beautiful port of Veracruz, in gala attire that day, received the representatives of the districts, with their counselors and secretaries, who began to arrive early from distant places, to receive instructions. A spirit of harmony, understanding, and interest reigned at both sessions of the conference. As we bade our sisters adieu, we felt that they would work with diligence and love in order to strengthen the work of the Lord.' " 530 Es g o = fag July 1967 East Central States Mission, Tullahoma Branch, Tennessee, Bazaar November 19, 1966 Left to right: Catherine M. Hunter, Homemaking Counselor; Leah C. Tidwell, President; Becky Hunter. Erma T. Eldredge, Supervisor, East Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "This was the first bazaar open to the public held by the Tullahoma Branch Relief Society. It was held in one of the town's largest shopping centers, in a nice vacant store, in which there was ample space for displaying many handmade articles, homemade candies, and baked goods. The sisters received much publicity in the local paper before the bazaar, and the paper presented an article afterwards, printing some of the recipes used for the baked goods. For the bazaar, the sisters all wore old-fashioned long skirts, and the townspeople enjoyed the spirit of an old-fashioned church bazaar." Blackfoot Stake (Idaho), Moreland Ward Spiritual Living Class Leader Honored at Leadership Meeting, November 9, 1966 Left to right: Rowena Merrill and Barbara Gneiting, Counselors, Blackfoot Stake Relief Society; LaRue Cox, President; Genevieve Lindsay, being honored for serving forty-one years as theology (spiritual living) class leader in Moreland Ward. Sister Cox reports: 'Sister Lindsay began her service as theology class leader in 1925, as a young bride. She has been a faithful and diligent class leader, and was released in the autumn of 1965 due to a call to become an ordinance worker in the Idaho Falls Temple. She was presented with a lovely corsage of autumn colors in recognition of her devotion to Relief Society." Brazilian Mission Relief Society Conference February 11, 1967 Alice C. Hicken, Supervisor, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, reports: "On February 11, 1967, the sisters of the Brazilian Mission held their annual mission Relief Society conference in the Santana Branch chapel, Sado Paulo, Brazil. This was an outstanding conference in every respect, perfectly organized and executed. It was planned and organized by our mission Relief Society board, with Adriana Conteir de Freitas, President, and her secretary Laudelina Donofrio. Eight branches in the Tiete District furnished the food, and the various outlying districts prepared the presentations for the conference. Included were demonstrations for the benefit of our newer branches of an entire Relief Society meeting and various class discussions, also the skit 'Clinica Fantastica,' a lovely display of bazaar items from each district, and a testimony meeting. "The most gratifying thing about the conference was the expression of love and unity of the sisters from all over the mission. Probably the most unique feature was the attendance itself. Since our farthest branch is 2700 miles from S4o Paulo, we did not have anyone represented from the Recife area, but every other district was represented. We had a large group travel ten hours by bus from Rio de Janeiro, another group of eleven from Belo Horizonte, which was an eleven-hour bus trip. Brasilia, which is over 700 miles away, and interior cities 300 and 400 miles away were represented. In spite of these great distances, there were almost 200 represented." 

532 July 1967

 Emigration Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah), Twenty-first Ward Relief Society Honors Visiting Teachers, December 14, 1966 Front row, left to right, visiting teachers who have served for more than fifty years: Alice Asper; Phoebe Booth; Theodosia Dana; Isabella Kippen. Second row, left to right, officers of the Twenty-first Ward Relief Society: Doris Watts, Secretary; Fern Voss, First Counselor; Eva Peterson, President; Eula Pusey, Second Counselor. Hazel Young, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society, reports: "At noon the visiting teachers were honored with a lovely dinner and program. The tables were attractively decorated with the Christmas theme. This ward has done 100 per cent visiting teaching for twenty years. Doris Watts was honored for serving as secretary for twenty years under seven presidents. She has been a very efficient, dependable secretary, and everyone loves her. There are 128 members in this ward Relief Society, twenty-one of whom are between eighty and ninety years of age.' Clearfield Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present ''Prelude to Christmas" December 10, 1966 Front row, seated, left to right: Leora D. Ashbaker, Second Counselor; Ora R. Barlow, President; Maxie L. Larson, Secretary-Treasurer; Nancy Lundquist, organist; Mary U. Blood, chorister. (Coleen P. Clark, First Counselor, was out of town the day the picture was taken.) Sister Barlow reports: '"The evening began with a delicious banquet, followed by a lovely concert presented by the Singing Mothers. The hall glittered with exciting displays of Christmas handicraft made by the wards, while the banquet tables were beautifully decorated with nativity figures created by stake board members.: "The concert developed the Christmas theme in word, song, and tableau. Each ward chorus presented a song and a tableau. The combined chorus sang three numbers. The stake organist was assisted by Edna Rasmussen and ward organists. Narrator was Flora Knight." Santa Monica Stake (California), West Dale Second Ward Relief Society Presents ''The Gift'' For Anniversary Day, March 16, 1967 On stage, standing at the left, left to right: Glyda Bates; Marion Muir; Beryl Nicholaisen; Alice Kochheim. Seated: Sheryl Anderson; Eleanor Muir; Sharon Shirley; Doreen Blackburn. Standing at the right: Amanda Hightower, spiritual living leader and director of the dramatization. Not on stage: Judy Hoppe, chorister, and Arlene Brown, organist. Evelyn R. Bluth, President, Santa Monica Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our nine wards were delighted to have "The Gift' sent to them from the General Board for their 125th Anniversary parties. Having the families at an evening party they accepted as a new and challenging idea. Four of the wards decided to have a family dinner, two had ice cream socials, and the other three served finger foods and dessert. It was extremely interesting to the stake visitors attending to note the ingenuity and talents displayed in presentation of the dramatizations. The combined attendance in the wards was 1405, and many of these men, women, and children were enlightened for the first time to the responsible position the Relief Society holds as an aid to the Priesthood." 534 Pioneer Stake (Sait Lake City, Utah) Celebrates The Relief Society Anniversary, March 17, 1967 Standing left to right: Counselor Marianne C. Sharp of the General Presidency of Relief Society; Viola Crowton; Ida Deters. Seated, left to right: Eva Passey, stake spiritual living class leader; Patricia Jensen. Dicie Godfrey, President, Pioneer Stake Relief Society, reports: "Patricia Jensen, Viola Crowton, and Ida Deters portrayed the first Relief Society presidency of the Church, and Eva Passey represented the first secretary. The anniversary social was held in the cultural hall. It was a great honor to have Sister Sharp visit with us this memorable day. The play "The Gift? Was presented, with the following sisters participating: Donna Drechsel, Lucille Hansen, Lynette Hansen, and Geraldine: Morris. The stake Singing Mothers, a chorus of forty-five women, presented the music, under direction of Elaine Cobia, stake chorister, accompanied by Molly Taylor, stake organist. After the play, 'The Lord's Prayer' was sung by Bonnie Robinson, stake social relations leader. Judith Sparks, dressed as an Indian maiden, gave the story of 'The Lord's Prayer' in pantomime, while Sister Robinson sang the words. They were accompanied by Molly Taylor. "Sister Sharp, with her uplifting spiritual remarks, left the 325 women feeling well-paid for attending the anniversary party. Also in attendance was President Joseph Nemelka of the stake presidency. Refreshments were furnished by the ward Relief Societies and served by the stake board."