[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 513 | Fiction | Gold Lady | Lenora Hansen]
[Gold Lady Lenora Hansen]

Her words were knifeedged, like her '"'No."' "Someone ought to care about me!"' 

513 July 1967

 "TIT care about you," the man answered. "I love you, but both of us have to think about the boy now. After all, you're an adult." 'Why do I always have to be an adult? Why can't he be an adult for a change? Oh, I'm sorry! I didn't mean that!" Then, more quietly, ''All right, I am an adult, but what can I do?" "You can sit by his bed and tell him you love him." "And have him laugh in my face?" "You say you love him." "JT do I would...." The words seemed earnest and sincere. 'Oh, what's the use!"' I found myself straining to hear more of this private conversation, forgetting that it was none of my affair. Only nothing more was said. Finally, the man walked down the hall to the right, toward pediatrics. The woman went with him. It was not until night that I saw the Gold Lady again. At night, the people of the little waiting room went down the hall, to the right or to the left, for a last word with the patients. Then they gathered up their wraps and their magazines, said goodnight and, one by one, went down the elevator. The hospital had given me a pillow. I used my coat for a blanket and slept on the couch, to be near Mike. Mike was only five years old. He lay, burned, in a white room down the hall a sterile room, where a nurse in a gauze mask was on duty night and day. Visitors were kept outside the room, but someone of the family always stayed in the little waiting room, in case Mike 514 should wake up and be frightened by the strangeness. I went into pediatrics to look at Mike once more, before I lay down. In the doorway of the room directly across from Mike's stood the Gold Lady. Her lips were closed and her stance was rigid, but her eyes held hurt. Since I could not go inside Mike's sterile room, I opened the door a little and stood there while the nurse counted the drops as they went from the bottle into his arm. I watched her put another blanket, tent-like, across the frame that was his bed. I" spoke to him, but he didn't know that I was there. When I closed the door and turned again, the Gold Lady was gone. The door where she had stood was open, and the upper half of the wall was glass. The gentle husband sat by the bed and held the hand of a boy that had to be his son. They both had dark hair the man's receding the boy's tightly curled. Both had eyebrows that grew out across the nose. The man's nose was long the boy's half-formed, but they both leaned toward the left. The boy looked to be about eight, the man near thirty-five. They seemed held in silent searching. The man's face was anxious and the boy's withdrawn. I saw pain in the boy's eyes. Then I realized that it was not a physical pain. It was the same hurt that I had seen in the eyes of the Gold Lady. I knew the nurse at the desk, so I stopped and asked her what was wrong with the boy across the hall from Mike. "A car hit his bicycle," she said. ""The doc- tor had to do an operation." "Ts it serious?" The nurse said, ''No." Then she looked away and said, "Yes!" Her eyes came back to mine. "He shouldn't be serious, but he is. A person has to want to get well." She went back to her bookkeeping, then looked up once more. "The boy is his, but not hers." In the little waiting room, I turned the lights out, took off my shoes and lay down. In the dimness from the hall light, I sensed the couch, beneath me, like mottled moss. The weight of the walls pressed massive. Three narrow, slatted windows reached up and up, forever. I slept slept and awoke and slept again and walked down to stand at the door of Mike's room. I put a sterile gown and mask on about one o'clock and sat with him while the night nurse went down to the cafeteria. As I went back down the hall, a painted elephant looked at me from the wall and swung his trunk over toward a monkey, balancing himself above the open door of room number 213. All the doors in pediatrics were open, except special cases like Mike's that had to be kept sterile, and the upper half of all the walls was glass so that nurses could keep watch over the children. On the wall across from 215 a pink baby hippo winked one eye. Farther on, two tiger kittens tumbled near a striped zebra. Where the camel knelt, I stopped to watch three nurses turn another patient on a frame like Mike's. After that I went back into the waiting room. I lay awake for a long time, wondering about the Gold Lady Gold Lady and the boy, and the hurt in both their eyes. The man looked like the kind who could play ball with a boy or run down a hill, laughing, with a woman. She had said, "I do I would...." I would? What did that mean? She would love the boy if he wouldn't "laugh in her face?" I gave it up and went to sleep. The nurses changed at seven in the morning. At eight, my daughter Beth came to stay near Mike. 0. The way out, I stopped for breakfast at the cafeteria. As I waited for my toast, I looked at the people. The white groups were the doctors and nurses. The colors, here and there, were people from the waiting rooms, like me. It was a room of faces and right hands. The hands came up and down with an uneven swinging. The faces bent forward and back in conversation. The conversation was a background for the clatter of china and the ring of silver as it fell. A man stood up from the crowd, carrying a tray. Then I saw the Gold Lady. She and the gentle man were sitting by a window. I collected my tray, paid the cashier and deliberately made my way toward an empty chair near where they sat. As I came close, I felt the tension between them, and when I sat down, with my back toward their table, I could hear their voices. "'We've been through all that! It just won't work!" It was the Gold Lady speaking. "Larry always seems polite." 

515 July 1967

 "'Polite and cold. If he would get angry, I could fight it.' Her voice grew urgent. ""Why has he built this wall between us? What have I ever done?" "IT don't know. There must be something he resents." "It could be because you married me." "No, it couldn't be that. He was awfully pleased at first. It must be something that has happened. Maybe something that he didn't understand. Whatever it is, please try a little longer." "TI have tried! I bought him a puppy. He thanked me politely. He made no move to touch it. He never looked at it again. I gave him paints for his birthday, the paints that I heard him asking you for, the ones he wanted more than anything there was. The next day Ike Dean was playing with them. Larry had given them away!" "He rode the bicycle you gave him." "Yes, he wanted the bicycle even more than he wanted to hurt me. He was riding it when the car hit him. So now, he can blame the hospital onto me, too!" '"He's hurt now. When he's better...." "He isn't getting better! He doesn't want to get better. The doctor said he could get better, if he wanted to. Remember? I am certain it's because of me." "Don't be silly! Larry's just a very sick and little boy." "Anyway, I have decided. I'm going to go away." "But you can't! I love you!" "As you, yourself, said, we've both got to think of Larry now." "Please, try just once more. Go sit by his bed and talk with 516 him. Once more for all of us?" "It isn't any use. I'm going." "He's only eight! You said you loved him!" "T do I have I would.... " There was that word again. "If only he would let me!" There was silence for a while. Then, 'Wait until he's out of here."' "He won't be out of here unless I go." This time there was a long silence. I became conscious, once more, of dish clatter and of other voices. I forgot, again, as the man resumed: "Wait until tomorrow night when the doctor comes. Please give both of us that much longer, him and me." "Let's get out of here," said, "I can't eat any more." I heard them push their chairs back and leave. My toast was cold. My orange juice was getting warm. She. That evening the Gold Lady walked by twice, both times alone. When I went back to look at Mike, Larry's dad was by his bed, their two dark heads together, looking at something that I could not see. Late that night, she came into the waiting room. Everybody else had gone. "How is the boy?" IJ asked. She opened her mouth to speak closed it and considered a moment. "No better." I would have spoken again, but she did not look at me. Her eyes and her mind were turned in upon her own thoughts. We sat a long time, quiet. She looked at me, at last, and I thought that, now, she was going to speak, but she changed her mind. She stood up and went out. Each time I went back to Mike, that night, I looked through the glass into the room across the hall. Larry lay quiet; but I felt sure his eyes were open. Lying on the couch, I tried, again, to piece together the things that I had heard. I kept going back to those two words "I would." I would what? "I would love him if he would let me." Why wouldn't he let her? Because he was hurt. The look in his eyes was hurt. As I thought back, I felt certain that the look was also guarded. Guarded against what? Against being hurt again. What could have happened that neither the man nor the woman seemed to know? What possibly could have happened? I was still wondering that when I went to sleep. It was late when I went down for breakfast the next morning. Before I left the waiting room, word passed that the baby belonging to the Little Blond and the Young Beard had not lived through the night. Mike's doctor came and went, stopping to say that there had been no change. Nurses, pushing patients in wheel chairs, passed our hall, going into and out of "Laboratory." The parents of the throat case and the four grandparents came to take their patient home. A new patient came. The girl who waited with us was his aunt. The father of the chest case and the gray-haired lady and the man with the mustache were all in and out. But I saw nothing of the gentle man and the Gold Lady. It was late that Gold Lady night before I saw either of them again. Dr. Brent was with Mike, and I was on my way down to wait for him to come out of the room. The night supervisor was talking to the Gold Lady in the hall. As I passed, I heard her say, "The doctor said not to leave the boy alone. Until his father comes, you had better go sit with him." I wondered where the gentle man was. Then I remembered that this was their "tomorrow night." The lady must have hesitated or demurred; for, as I went on down the corridor, I heard the supervisor's voice snap: "I don't know what there is between you and your husband and that boy, but ever since his father talked to him about something, late last night, he has Jain like he is now. About a half an hour ago, your husband came in and walked down the hall. We are trying to locate him again. In the meantime, you go in there and sit with him!" A. Mike's door, I leaned against the wall and waited for the doctor to come out. Across the hall, Larry lay, motionless and looking straight ahead, just as I had seen him in the night. The Gold Lady was coming, slowly. Her shoulders drooped. Each foot held back its step a moment. I thought the hand at her side trembled. She stopped at the door and stood with her back toward me. Was she looking at the boy, I wondered, or did she pray? Then she went in and sat down by his bed. If the boy knew she was there, he made no sign. 517 Cina. Aoe She sat quiet for what seemed like a long, long time. When the words came, they were jagged, torn and spoken softly: "Larry Larry, I wanted so much to love you! Larry, you must get well! If I have done something, truly I do not know what it is. If it's because you want your father, I'm going away and you can have him. I wanted so to have the three of us.... Oh, Larry," she cried suddenly, "Larry, why won't you let me love you?" The dark head turned slowly, and the boy spoke wonderingly, "You don't hate me anymore?" "I don't hate...? I love you! You are the one that.... Why would you ever think I hated you?" "You said you hated me." "J didn't I couldn't have! When, Larry?" "The night Evan and I had a fight, Evan went home and I heard you on the porch. You said, 'I hate him! I hate him! I hate him!' "' The woman was crying, now. "Oh, Larry, no! Not you!' She ye choked and, for a little, no words came. Then, softly, "If I had only known! Please, Larry, I've always loved you. Remember, I hadn't ever been a mother before. Please understand! It was Evan that I meant, not you only I didn't really mean J hated him." She closed her eyes a moment. This time, I was almost sure it was a prayer. Now her voice held such tendemess. "You remember after the fighting I had wiped the tears and the dirt off your face. Your nose was bleeding, and you had one eye swollen shut. It was Evan that I meant but not really that I hated him just that I hated what he had done to hurt the son I loved. Larry Larry, I love you! It was Evan that I meant be- 'cause he had hurt you!" Larry was crying now, too, and the Gold Lady held him in her arms. I heard the door open behind me. As I turned to meet the doctor, I saw the gentle man coming down the hall. FORESIGHT The woman I! Wish to be Will not allow the girl that I am To rob the children I hope to have Of the birthright of chastity. 518 Juanita W.