[Vol54 | July 1967 | Page 552 | Lesson | Cultural Refinement "A Glad Heart" Robert | K. Thomas]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 3: Intelligent Family Living, By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K.. Thomas) Lesson 1 "'A Glad Heart' Elder Robert K. Thomas "With a glad heart and a cheerful countenance." Doctrine and Covenants 59:15 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1967 Southern Hemisphere: March 1968 Objective: By developing a glad heart, a woman may more effectively set a tone of harmony within her home. Note To Class Leaders: Musical selections with comments for lesson 1 from the Relief Society teaching kit will form a part of this lesson. INTRODUCTION When we are "counting our blessings," we gain appreciation for what we have by contrasting our 'own situation with that of others less fortunate. Especially in our adolescence is this experience in perspective valuable. For we need to understand our strengths and prepare to take advantage of special opportunities. When we grow older, however, and have had some of the selfabsorption of youth qualified by meaningful service to and from others, we no longer feel simple gratitude when we do not haye to undergo another's misfortune. In maturity, our reaction to the problems of our associates is tempered by realistic awareness that our advantages may be illusory or fleeting. All experience teaches the general lesson that the only control we may have over some circumstances in our lives is the ability and willingness to adapt skillfully to them. Accidents for which we have little responsibility 552 may rob us of health, may limit our choice of vocation or may even take from us the very things which seem to make life most meaningful. At such a time it is not particularly helpful to hear that everything will "work out in the end." In the most tragic circumstances the end seems to have arrived, and the pain of the present moment appears to numb our ability to find immediate comfort in a long view. Yet if we are not given all the consolation we need in a trying situation, we can always make enough happiness to carry us through. Most of the selections in this section will stress such achieved well-being. The short opening poems which begin this month's lesson let us see happiness and harmony, in which circumstance plays a major part. Wordsworth's sudden exhilaration as he comes upon a field of daffodils should be able to be duplicated by many people who are sensitive to nature's gifts: 1 WANDERED LONELY AS A CLOUD I wandered lonely as a cloud That floats on high o'er vales and hills, When all at once I saw a crowd, A host, of golden daffodils; Beside the lake, beneath the trees, Fluttering and dancing in the breeze. Continuous as the stars that shine And twinkle on the milky way, They stretched in never-ending line Along the margin of a bay; Ten thousand saw I at a glance, Tossing their heads in sprightly dance. The waves beside them danced; but they Out-did the sparkling waves in glee: A poet could not but be gay In such a jocund company: I gazed and gazed but little thought What wealth the show to me had brought: For oft, when on my couch I lie In vacant or in pensive mood, They flash upon that inward eye Which is the bliss of solitude; And then my heart with pleasure fills, And dances with the daffodils. Perhaps. A basic concern of Wordsworth was the transactions which take place between the living person and his environment. The poetry of Wordsworth often lets one see the beholder assimilating the natural scene he is confronting and turning it into a mental landscape which can be revisited at will. If circumstance triggers the experience, what happens later is the really creative act. Recollecting the daffodils gives them immortal freshness and continuing meaning. One of the great functions of poetry may well be the annihilation of time (remember Keats' "Ode on a Grecian Urn" in Vol. I), and Wordsworth's afterimage of the daffodils becomes a source of happiness that is ever-renewable. Since life will add to our recollecLesson Department tion of the experience, the original can take on meanings which are limited only by our growing sensitivity. _What works against such developing richness is our getting so involved in present duties and responsibilities that we confine our minds, as well as our bodies, to numbing routine. Many household tasks require little mental effort. Dishes may be done doggedly or in pleasant reverie. The creative remembering of special moments can give one repeated joy and help one set that time of relaxed harmony which distinguishes a happy home. For Discussion What are the values of living in memory as we see demonstrated in "I Wandered Lonely As a Cloud'? What are the dangers? RONDEAU Jenny kiss'd me when we met, Jumping from the chair she sat in; Time, you thief, who love to get Sweets into your list, put that in: Say I'm weary, say I'm sad, Say that health and wealth have miss'd me, Say I'm growing old, but add, Jenny kiss'd me. Leigh Hunt Leigh Hunt's "Rondeau" also emphasizes the possibilities for happiness in the smallest acts. There are few mothers who do not recall a sudden hug from a slightly embarrassed teen-ager or the lift which a sticky but emphatic kiss from a toddler can give to an otherwise dreary day. It is worth remembering that our own happiness will encourage such expressions. Despite evidence, which sometimes appears overwhelming, that youngsters are concerned 

553 July 1967

 wholly with themselves, they usually know the value of a smile when nothing seems to be going right. If they have to develop the ability to view misfortune with a "cheerful countenance," they need examples to encourage them. Our consistently positive attitudes give them courage and confidence, and, when we finally succumb to a particularly trying situation, we will have helped prepare them to rise to the challenge of comforting us. For Discussion How can such a small act as being unexpectedly kissed, in "Rondeau," counter weariness, sadness, poverty, and ill health? How literal do you think Leigh Hunt's assertion is here? "A DUST OF SNOW" With "A Dust of Snow" by Robert Frost, we pick up the direction which has been hinted at in two earlier poems. DUST OF SNOW The way a crow Shook down on me The dust of snow From a hemlock tree Has given my heart A change of mood And saved some part Of a day I had rued. Robert Frost Circumstance is still primary and we can get something out of our encounter with the crow in the hemlock tree without much effort but the resources of this small experience are almost beyond recounting. Consider the small physical result: only a dust of snow is shaken down, and it is quite 554 possible the crow doesn't know of the poet's existence. But he is adapting to his difficult situation admirably. The poem contains no conjectures as to why the crow has remained or what he is going to do. Somehow it doesn't occur to the reader that the crow might be lonely. Activity and loneliness or activity and unhappiness seldom go together. Just doing something about our problems can change our whole attitude from one of despair to hope. Who claims he is too busy to be happy? For Discussion What is suggested in "Dust of Snow" by the last line? Is "rued" appropriate here? "THEY MIGHT NOT NEED ME" The poem by Emily Dickinson which begins "They might not need me, but they might," is short enough to be reprinted in the lesson: They might not need me; but they might. I'll let my head be just in sight; A smile as small as mine might be Precisely their necessity. These few lines, at first glance, seem almost too tentative to be convincing. There is such reiterated qualification that we might find them hopelessly indecisive. Yet one of the hallmarks of genius is the ability to make the questionable finally appear inevitable. In her use of "precisely" Miss Dickinson brings this little poem into triumphant integration, for it rescues the tentative from its usual connotations. Instead of suggesting vacillation or timidity, it reminds us that uncertainty may simply be a preliminary and necessary step toward certainty. There is a point in most of our development when someone's brief smile of encouragement is just what we need. Too beaming a smile may appear either false or coercive. No smile at all will only reinforce our insecurity. With those we love as in a family Miss Dickinson's point is particularly well taken. A glad heart need not manifest itself in effusiveness, and we should not estimate the success of our encouragement by its heartiness. Few know us so well as the members of our family, and in no other group would falseness be more quickly detected. It doesn't hurt to let others know that we, too, are often discouraged, but that we can manage a little smile of hope and encouragement. In many cases, when a child must learn something for himself, even if he makes disappointing mistakes in the process, a smile of encouragement may be "precisely" his need. For Discussion What keeps "They might not need me" from sounding merely coy? "A COURAGEOUS LETTER" "A Courageous Letter," at first glance, could appear to be dated. The situation it describes is obviously a result of the great depression of the 1930's. Yet the approach we need to solve any problem and to remain happy in our effort is here given classic formulation. If this letter reflects a mother's point of view, it is just as successful in letting its readers see what anyone can do when faced with adversity. Because it makes clear how little material Lesson Department circumstance has to do with happiness, it is a peculiarly appropriate selection for this lesson. The writer describes her family as "eager for happiness" and exhorts her friend to let a film gather on the windows of her home, if it must, but not to let it collect on her spirit. In being the "'jolliest group of soldiers that were ever put through a forced march," the family referred to here suggest the discipline and dynamic acceptance that prepares the ground in which happiness can flourish. For Discussion What is the difference between the assertions of "A Courageous Letter" and the common advice to "keep a stiff upper lip"? "THE HAPPY JOURNEY TO TRENTON AND CAMDEN" In commenting upon "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden" by Thornton Wilder, Alexander Woollcott insists that it is a "finer, wiser, and more beautiful" play than most of its "slum and windy" comtemporaries. Glum and windy "The Happy Journey" is not, but it might be dismissed as superficial if we fail to hear the profound overtones which this one-act. Drama sounds. A contemporary critic suggests that nothing in Wilder's plays surpasses the married daughter's question to her father: "Are you glad I'm still alive, pa?" Into this line Wilder packs three of man's basic feelings: the desire for love, the fear of rejection, and the fear of death. At the moment of the play's conclusion, comes the taut suggestion that all will be well for the entire family, and, consequently, for all humanity. 

555 July 1967

 For Discussion What is especially appropriate about the hymn Mrs. Kirby is singing as the curtain goes down on "The Happy Journey to Trenton and Camden"? "L'ALLEGRO" This poem by John Milton has been one of the most popular poems in the English language. Reasons for this esteem are not difficult to find. The happily modulated lines in which Milton describes a day in the life of a cheerful man (this is a reasonable translation of the Italian title) use appropriate mythological and pastoral imagery to build up a mood of contentment. The poem is full of light and movement. Most critics of Milton find both L' Allegro and its companion piece I] Penseroso attractive, but they do not agree in interpreting them. Some have felt that Milton was presenting the dominant forces of his time Cavalier and Puritan in these poems. Others have found here a study of the contrast between day and night. While a resolution of meaning in Milton's work is the understandable preoccupation of scholars, most readers will find a poem such as L'Allegro rewarding in noting the skill with which a mood can be created by appropriate imagery and tone. Note the perfectly caught feeling for the simple pleasures of work and love in the following lines: While the ploughman, near at hand, Whistles o'er the furrowed land, And the milkmaid singeth blithe, And the mower whets his scythe, And every shepherd tells his tale Under the hawthorn in the dale. For Discussion The cheerfulness that Milton describes in L'Allegro never becomes boisterous. At what point does an action or an attitude move from the legitimately gay to the questionably boisterous? ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. As the ward or branch class leader has not presented all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, Volume 3, she may bring unused selections from the text into her lesson. 556 MUSICAL SELECTIONS FOR CULTURAL REFINEMENT LESSON 1 "A Glad Heart'' (included on the record in the teaching kit): Schumann, 'Du Ring an Mienem Finger' from Frauenliebe und Leben 2. Dvorak, 'Songs My Mother Taught Me"' Puccini, ''Flower Duet' from ''Madame Butterfly"' Thank You for your patronage and your friendship over the years. Yes, we have: ALL THE NEW HANDICRAFTS: Gold Leaf, Decoupage, Feather Flowers, Furry Animal Pictures, Tissue Paper and Velour Flowers PLUS ALL THE OLD FAVORITES: Aluminum Trays, Basketry, Ribbons, Styrofoam, Faces for Dolls and Stuffed Toys, ete. Send 25c for catalog and also receive our booklet, "How To Make Feather Flowers" ZIN'S __ 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 Dept. R. M.

This is my home a lintel worn and old, A kettle singing, and a lazy chair, A laughing fire keeping out the cold; The touch of gentle hands, a wondrous share Of love as constant as the bright star-glow This is life's bounty all my heart would know. 557 Salt Lake City's Newest PAGEANT TOURS Leaving July 22 PLAY TOUR Aug. 20-27 cR AFT g NORTHWEST TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES ee NOVELTY LABOR DAY TOUR paper flowers, and many others. HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR Free Instructions also available 486-1017 45-PIECE $70 Ts *) SERVICE FOR EIGHT Reg. Retail $234.50 delivered out-of-town. 20% DISCOUNT TO CHURCH GROUPS (ORDERING OVER FIVE DOZEN ASSORTED) (WRITE FOR PRICE LIST) NOW YOU CAN BUY WINFIELD TRUE PORCELAIN CHINA at OVEN PROOF HAND PAINTED DISHWASHER SAFE FACTORY OUTLET STORES pecans! G! St South f y 625 South Se chaew { 714 State Street, Santa Barbara Salt Lake City, Utah Denver, Colorado 348-A El Camino Real, San Carlos 558 TWO HILL CUMORAH BLACK HILLS PASSION Bryce, Zion & Grand Sept. 2-Sept. 4 MESA VERDE and CARLSBAD CAVERN TOUR Sept. 23-29 Oct. 14-29 James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: 466-8723 a patterns to choose from Yathe regular price... Factory-to-you selected seconds Merchants Park Shopping Center Handicraft Shop UTAH We now have a much larger shop to serve you better! * Complete line of materials for plastic grapes, feather flowers, paper mache jewelry, liquid steel, Write for new catalog. 50 UTAH CRAFT AND NOVELTY CO. RaNae Gledhill, Owner 3220 So. State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 *plus freight if PERMANENT PATTERN GUARANTEE In California