Prohibition DETERMINED effort is being made to repeal the 18th amendment and to have the liquor laws of the states changed so that the sale of beer and wines will be legalized. It behooves those who stand for this amendment and who are eager to keep the ground gained in the fight against the liquor evil to let their voices be heard in legislative halls. The Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations and the Primary organizations in connection with all interested in the movement have held meetings in many stakes and have sent word to their state legislators that they look to them hoping they will sustain all dry legislation. The following resolutions were adopted unanimously at the meeting held at' Roosevelt, Utah. On motion of J. F. Hoyt the following resolutions were adopted unanimously: Whereas, there are now under consideration before the legislative bodies of the Nation and the States, proposals to annul constitutional and legal restrictions on the liquor traffic; Therefore be it resolved, by the citizens of Roosevelt, Utah, in mass meeting assembled this second day of February, 1933, that we are unalterably opposed to the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment of the Federal Constitution, and of similar provisions of the Utah Constitution: (1) We oppose relieving the spirit of depression by drugging the needy with beer. (2) We oppose aiding any movement to enrich capitalists advertising the allurements of alcoholic drinks that will and do debase manhood and womanhood. (3 We oppose trading the souls of our children for the relief of tax burdens. Be it further resolved that copies of these resolutions be sent to each of our Congressional and Legislative representatives. President Robison has ably served as Chairman for the State of Utah for the Woman's Union for Political Action. Following a meeting at the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, Feb. 2, 1933, the following telegrams were sent: Salt Lake City, Utah, Feb. 2, 1933. Senator Reed Smoot, United States Senate, Washington, D. C. Mass meeting of women representing twenty women's organizations desire to express to you their sincere appreciation for your consistent and courageous defense of prohibition and all movements for moral betterment. You have stood for the protection of the firesides of our country and we express our gratitude. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Chairman for the State of Utah, Woman's Union for Political Action. Salt Lake City, Utah, Feb. 2, 1933. Senator William E. Borah, United States Senate, Washington, D. C. Mass meeting women representing twenty women's organizations State of Utah desire to express to you their sincere appreciation of your consistent and courageous support of Eighteenth Amendment. You are defending the ' homes, the women and the children of the nation and we desire you to know that we recognize our defender. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Chairman for the State of Utah, Woman's Union for Political Action. Salt Lake City, Utah, Feb. 2, 1933. Senator William H. King, United States Senate, Washington, D. C. Mass meeting of twenty women's organizations in Assembly Hall tonight desire to express their deep conviction that the repeal of Eighteenth Amendment would be a serious blow to the home, the womanhood and the childhood of the nation and their earnest prayers that you will find it possible to resist all attempts to weaken or destroy the efforts of women to banish the liquor traffic. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, Chairman for the State of Utah, Woman's Union for Political Action. The Relief Society stands for the retention of the 18th Amendment and for the rigid enforcement of all liquor laws.