The Cultivation of Flax By Heber S. Cutler (UTAH and Idaho are admirably adapted to the cultivation of flax. The climate is jsuch that the best varieties of seed flax and straw for fibre purposes, can be grown strong and healthy, and will compare with flax that is grown in any part of the United 'States or elsewhere. The soils of Utah and Idaho are well adapted to the growing of seed flax and straw for fibre purposes It is recommended that flax be planted on the irrigated lands, as a better crop is had for both flax seed and straw. All hands that will grow sugar beets, cereals, and in fact all other crops, can be used in the successful growing of flax. A dark sandy loam, free from weeds, with a minimum irrigation of three waterings will produce the best results. As a rotation crop. It will follow any other crops planted in this intermountain country. (Flax is especially good as a rotation crop in the eradication of nematode diseases incident to the growing of the sugar beet. Flax can be successfully raised from newly ploughed sod lands, and makes an excellent first crop to break up new land. Flax can be planted on alkali lands perhaps with better results than any other crops. The Utah Flax 'Products Company has already had quite a large plot planted with flax at the Utah Light and Power Plant, west of the Jordan River. Planting flax requires only the ordinary; farm equipment that 'is used in the growing of the cereals or beets, or any other crop of like character. The only requirement in addition to the usual farm equipment, is a finer seive in the thrashing machines To get the best results from growing flax for fibre purposes, the land must be free from weeds. The straw will not be taken commercially if there is more than 5% foreign matter in the production of straw for fibre purposes. There is no more work required in the production of flax, than there is in the production of wheat, or any other crop usually planted in Utah and Idaho. 'Flax is a cash crop, just as sugar beets are a cash crop. If the farmers will plant flax in 1933, and thereafter guarantee sufficient acreage, it will be a rival to the beet sugar industry, in Utah and Idaho. For the labor expended, the time required to mature the flax crop, and the general conditions incident to the growing of flax. It will bring to the farmers as much return as any other crop planted, including sugar beets. There is a cash market at home, and in California, which will consume all of the flax grown up to five thousand tons of flax seed annually. Our home cash market for the consumption of flax for seed and fibre purposes will rapidly grow as the flax meals can be usel in a mixed ration profitably by the poultry industry, the dairy industry, and live stock in general. Besides, flax meal is bought by drug stores for medical purposes. There will be many other industries?22 in all?in connection with the growing of flax, if the farmers will plant flax for seed and fibre purposes. The Utah Flax Products Company 32 South Main St., Salt Lake City, will furnish at cost a pedigreed seed flax, both wilt and rust resisting, of good quality, to all farmers who will plant flax in 1933. Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing A Specialty BREAD Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  , Utah " O. P. S. Breads and Rolls are unusual in their eating qualities. You'll buy them often after once trying them. OP SKAGGS Efficient Service System 'A Surety of Purity" Springtime Spring is the house-cleaning season. What to do with the prized magazines and periodicals that each spring finds stored away in attic and basement, serving no better purbose than to accumulate dust and consume Space, is a problem that wrinkles the brow of many a house-wife. Let us urge you not to let this valuable reading material remain hidden away when at a surprignly low cost you can convert it into handsomely bound volumes, gracing your library shelves, where you and your family can find easy access to the gems that these magazines contain. A card from you, stating the quantity of such material that you would like bound up, will bring a prompt response quoting costs. We are offering a special discount for ten or more volumes bound at one time, The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street: Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine UP, 5 & prompt response quoting costs. We are offering Progress Each and Every Year.... As time marches on greater becomes our annual increase in financial strength. Through fair weather and foul?through sunshine of prosperity and shadow of depression?the Beneficial has kept the faith of its founders and clung tenaciously to the virtues of conservatism and fair dealings. The Beneficial is nationally recognized for its investment strength; for its net low. Cost of insurance and the unique plan of distributing its net earning to Policyholders. During the year 1932 the Beneficial paid to Policyholders in cash and loans, more than one million seven hundred thousand dollars. IF YOU CAN'T SAVE TO BUY INSURANCE?BUY INSURANCE TO SAVE BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO HOME OFFICE?SALT LAKE CITY If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager