3 Relief Society, the Premier Organization By Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve THE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is a wonderful organization, considered from a sociological point of view," said a famed American scientist to the writer almost eighteen years ago. We sat at a banquet table. The conversation had turned to Utah, the Church, and the Word of Wisdom. The scientist said the study of sociology was his avocation. He had spent three summer vacations in Utah studying the ''Mormons," though this was unknown to them. He had quietly traveled among them and out in their rural communities. The more he learned about them, the more he liked them. The Word of Wisdom, he thought, was an exceptionally fine document, and said if its teachings were observed the "Mormon" people would become famous for their physical and mental vigor. The Church as an organization, he observed, should be the pride of its members; it was worthy of their staunchest loyalty. Why? Because of the many opportunities freely offered for personal development and individual growth. This scientist especially commended the missionary system of the Church as an effective agency in the educational training of those who engaged in it. To him the value of this training to the missionary appeared to be so great that he believed a missionary call should be regarded as the receipt of a very high honor. At length the rap for attention, in order that the program of speeches might begin, interrupted what to me was a delightful conversation; perhaps I might better say postponed a delightful conversation, for about nine years later we met again and the professor seemed pleased to tell me once more of his high regard for the "Mormon" people and their unique church organization.. The remarks of the friendly and fluent professor gave me a point of view that I have not since abandoned—the view that the Church is wonderful because of what it offers its members. We commonly hear adherents relate what they do for the Church, the service they render in this or that capacity. Sometimes we hear even returned missionaries tell of what they have done, the thought being that they have served the Church, have sacrificed for the Church, and therefore put the Church under obligation to them. And frequently others hint, sometimes actually. Assert, that, because of services rendered, the Church is obligated to those who have once func- 132 tioned in it and should, when necessary, come to their material relief. Due to economic conditions now prevailing these hints and assertions are not uncommon. This phase of the matter perhaps never occurred to the professor above spoken of. He saw the situation from another point of view—to him the all-important point of view—which is, what the Church does for the members, the opportunities it offers them for self-expression and growth. And was not the professor right? Would not the spiritual growth of the members be more satisfactory and solid if his point of view were fully accepted by all of us? "Man is that he might have joy." Experience teaches us that service to others, that type of unselfish service which expects no material rewards, coupled with clean and honest living, is the par excellent means of bringing joy to ourselves. And somewhere in the Church, or in one or more of its organizations, every individual may find abundant opportunities of joy-creating activities— activities that not only bring joy but growth and power as well. For illustration—it has been rightly said that as a rule two years of energetic and devoted service in the mission field better qualify a young man to make his way in life than two years of college training. And the great majority of returned missionaries publicly declare that the time they spent in missionary work was the most happy and profitable period of their lives to date. It is true that they have served the Church but they have also served themselves—in most cases they probably did more for themselves than they did for the Church. Is it therefore not logical to think they should thank the Church for their opportunity of going on a mission rather than hint the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Church is obligated to them for this service? In any case the Church is wonderfully organized. By virtue of its organizations opportunities are afforded every member to make something of himor her-self, physically, mentally, and spiritually, any one or all of these. GROWTH. Depends on activity. This is a law of nature. Every athletic coach requires practice of his boys. To become excellent they must acquire strength, endurance, skill, and the knack of team work. This is done by activity and by exercise of all the powers of mind as well as body. And in a sense it is true that the athletes serve their school but they do not have the idea of service prominent in their consciousness. They think more of what athletics does for them; they are grateful to the school for the opportunity of being on the "teams." And so forms of activity for members are provided by the various organizations of the Church. The development resulting from these activities brings a sense of satisfaction, of joy, of growth, of power, of the worth-whileness of life. Inevitably, then, when the situation is logically and carefully studied, there must arise a feeling of gratitude to the Church for the blessings it brings to its members. Now this writer has long believed that the premier auxiliary organization in the Church, considered both from the nature of its program and the devotion and loyalty of its workers, is the Relief Society. In - saying this there is no wish to make comparisons. All the organizations in the Church are officered by devoted, capable people. Each organization is doing very good work. But the Relief Society stands out from RELIEF SOCIETY THE PREMIER ORGANIZATION the others, not because it is the oldest organization, not because it has the distinction of having been organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, not because of its size (several others are larger), but primarily because of its effectiveness and efficiency. In these respects it probably leads, also, most of the priesthood quorums. Of course there are reasons for this distinction. Its membership includes the mature and experienced women of the Church and others who also appreciate fully the need of growth, the value of loyalty, the worth of dependability, and the beauty of service. Women, too, asa class feel more keenly than men and youth an urge or call to duty. With them an obligation is a sacred thing and must be met. They are therefore readily responsive to requests for action and to calls for service. For illustration, whoever heard of oft repeated public appeals to Relief Society members to pay their dues or to subscribe to their Magazine? And yet what organization is there in the Church that receives from its members so high a percentage of dues? Bishops would certainly experience a relief if ward teachers were to exhibit the faithfulness characteristic of Relief Society visiting teachers. Relief Society is a term synonymous with faithfulness and efficiency. This is public knowledge.
Another factor that distinguishes the Relief Society is the richness of its program—work and service, art and literature, practical religion and theology—a program so varied that every taste can be satisfied, every major interest engaged. These elements of the program are harmoniously coordinated, no one of them being permitted to dominate. Thus the membership feel a sisterhood, permeated by a spirit of unity and love, that makes this organization as 133 nearly Christ-like as any that can be found. "But it is an organization for gray heads and grandmothers," we heard it said. Certainly, and for young women, too, especially for mothers. The spirit-of Relief Society in the heart and in the home will make any woman, young or old, more attractive and charming, more successful in her sphere of action, whatever it may be, than she could otherwise be. The training she gets in this organization will also enable her to function more efficiently in her realms of activity. It will make her a better wife, a better mother, a happier woman. The spirit of Relief Society is the spirit of service in its broadest, finest, and best sense. And this spirit is irresistible. It grips those who come under its influence and lifts them heavenward. Their souls are filled with a joy and peace that is indescribable. Having been touched by this spirit is it any wonder that Relief Society women respond with alacrity to calls for service and sacrifice? Measured by the yardstick of sincerity, devotion to duty, and effectiveness of effort is it any wonder that this is the premier auxiliary organization of the Church? And is not this position of leadership readily granted by the other organizations? Who would wish to take it away from the Relief Society? There is no position too good or too exalted for our devoted mothers and the faithful women of the Relief Society; for these are those who pray: "These are the gifts I ask of Thee, Spirit serene: Strength for the daily task, courage to face the road, Good cheer to help me bear the traveler's load, And, for the hours of rest that come between, An inward joy of all things heard and seen." Missionaries and the Relief Society By May Booth Talmage BY varied means does the Gospel message find its way into the homes and hearts of honest souls who are receptive to its truths. Many of us have heard the thrilling story of Gospel tracts having been carried by wind and wave to distant shores, then gathered up and read by people who became convinced of the truths thus brought to them. Others have first learned the message of Mormonism through sermons printed in newspapers tossed from train or motor car while passing isolated prairie habitation. But the general method of disseminating the truth is through the missionary system which is. Characteristic of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. Accepting in all sincerity the admonition given by the Master—"Go ye into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature" —Latter-day Saint parents find great joy in the successful achievements of their missionary sons and daughters, and ask no greater compensation for the necessary sacrifice of means and companionship than that the one sent shall return with an honorable release. Almost from infancy the desire "to go on a mission" is implanted and nourished in the hearts of children reared in genuine Latter-day Saint homes. In some families a fund is started which is gradually increased through the years, thus making possible a prompt and cheerful response when the call to missionary service comes. NOW, with all this desire to serve and this willing sacrifice of time and money, should there not be equal concern of both parents and children as to the education that will prepare the one who goes to meet the prob-. Lems and add to the efficiency of missionary life? It isa commonly accepted fact that one cannot teach what he does not know. Therefore, our prospective missionaries are given training along lines of theology and fundamental doctrines of the Church. Even more important than understanding of and ability to explain the plan of salvation is a genuine and individual testimony as to its being in very truth the Gospel of Jesus Christ, restored in this the last dispensation prior to the Lord's advent. __ In thinking of essentials in the educational preparation of a missionary the average person has in mind: (1) A testimony as to the Gospel he is to preach being in solemn truth the © Gospel of Jesus Christ; (2) a knowledge of its principles and doctrines; and (3) the ability to present this knowledge clearly and convincingly through conversations while distributing tracts, in travel and by other personal associations, and by public speaking. A young man thus equipped before starting for his mission field would be considered well prepared, and one could wish in all sincerity that every missionary thus setting out might be so fortunate. But there is still another line of missionary activity—vitally important yet seldom mentioned and almost never stressed. It is of this phase I have been asked to write.

Not until one has been in charge of activities in mission, district, or branch capacity, does this problem MISSIONARIES AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY arouse the important consideration it deserves. Most missionaries are familiar with some part of the auxiliary work conducted by the Church. The Sunday School is a co-educational organization for religious training, as are the Primary Association and the Seminaries. The first of these has its special missionary class. In the Mutual Improvement Associations all sorts of leisure time activities are stressed and development in leadership is an outstanding feature; but one may safely venture the assertion that not one in fifty of the missionaries sent out has any practical knowledge of the work done by the Relief Societies of our Church. Indeed, if the suggestion be made that a young prospective missionary acquaint himself with the details of Relief Society activity it would be regarded, most likely, as facetious; and yet there is a problem here to be met. It is a recognized fact in the mission field that because of greater spirituality in women than in men, or for other reasons, more women than men become converted and come into the Church. Therefore, as a rule the Relief Society is the strongest organization in a mission branch. Naturally the members try to interest their friends in this work, believing it will bring them under thé Gospel influence and that subsequently they may become attendants at the general Sunday service and develop into sincere investigators. While in the mission field I made numerous inquiries of converts as to what factor had led to their becoming interested in the Gospel; and in far more than a majority of cases I learned that through the helpful ministrations of the Relief Society to neighbors who had illness or were bereaved or in other trouble, the people had become interested in 135 learning more of this ministering agency. Then followed a visit to the Society meeting, and later, membership, which eventually resulted in conversion and baptism. Now, in many small branches the Relief Society, to be successful, must have help from the missionaries. In fact the local Society is under the direct supervision of branch and district presidents who are frequently chosen from among the missionaries. A Relief Society president may have been in office for several years and yet she must consult and cooperate with her branch president, asking his counsel and accepting his advice, as do our Relief Society presidents and bishops who work together at home, but with this difference: A bishop as a rule is a man of judgment and experience who retains his office for years, while a branch president in the mission, if chosen from among the missionaries, may be in charge for a few months or a year at most and may be a young and comparatively inexperienced man. It will be readily seen that if the branch or district president be ignorant of Relief Society work and the problems connected with administration, distribution of funds, etc., he is but poorly qualified to direct and counsel the Relief Society officers in the conduct of their work; and if he be uninformed concerning this important service, and especially if he be lacking in sympathy and tact he may give inadequate or even objectionable counsel and instruction, even such as may be at variance with the advice of his immediate predecessor who may have had a clearer understanding of Relief Society activities. Even, however, when a missionary is not needed as a presiding officer (as is most frequently the case) he is sought after for counsel and helpful suggestions wherever his assignment may take him. Especially is this true in small branches where leadership is scarce or in newly organized Relief Societies, the officers of which may be comparatively new converts. In such instances a missionary finds it necessary to act as class leader until he can help the sisters to grasp the many problems confronting them, assist them in the preparation of their lessons and inspire in them sufficient courage to assume the full responsibility of leadership. On several occasions after giving a talk at conference on the organization and general aims, activities and achievements of this great institution, I have had new missionaries come to express appreciation for their enlightenment and to say in effect: "I had no conception of the importance and magnitude of the work as you have explained it; indeed, I have always thought of Relief Society meetings as gatherings of elderly ladies who like to meet together and sew and gossip." This brings me toan expression of my definite purpose in calling this subject to the attention of Relief Society mothers. Where have missionary boys obtained such distorted ideas of Relief Society objectives? Surely not from mothers who are actively engaged in this work—not from women who on their appointed rounds have gone through sunshine or storm to homes in their district to learn if any were ill or in need of assistance, and to carry a message of cheer to the home-bound, to lend aid when death had come to the family, to drape the stand and otherwise prepare houses of worship for funeral services, and to bring comfort and sustenance to the destitute —Boys from such homes are, at least, acquainted with the spirit of Relief Society affairs through having absorbed it in the home. No derogatory expressions came from boys who through school or business training had helped Mother get out her yearly report as Relief Society secretary, nor from those whose high school or college training had made them able and willing to assist their mother or sister in the preparation of her lessons on the subject of religion, literature or social service. To me it was never difficult to recognize the missionaries who had grown up in an atmosphere of Relief Society ideals and who came from homes in which Relief Society standards had been magnified. In almost all cases we found that when missionaries had an intelligent understanding of and a helpful and sympathetic attitude toward Relief Society work and its officers, the branch was in a fine flourishing condition, and that where these qualities were lacking there was a corresponding dearth of enthusiasm in Relief Society work and in branch activities generally. If these observations and conclusions be true, is it not of paramount importance that children while young and through advancing years shall be given a thorough understanding of the purpose of Relief Society service, aS it was clearly set forth at the time of organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith? It is not sufficient that the young missionary learn a little about Relief Society work during the short period of his stay in the Missionary Home just before his departure for the field. He should have grown up in an atmosphere of appreciation of this organization and be educated in the spirit of helpfulness in the home, the neighborhood and the community. Ts it not worthwhile for mothers to familiarize themselves with the MISSIONARIES AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY scope and magnitude of Relief Society work if their attitude toward it will contribute to the success of these sons for whom they are saving, and hoping and praying that they may "go on a mission?" The work of the Relief Society has a definite relationship to the success or failure of missionaries. Mothers, just what does it mean to you what the outcome shall be? Have the time and money spent, the sacrifice and effort which you have been so ready and willing to make, brought uplift and cheer, comfort 137 and harmony into the hearts and homes of converts, as well as being the means of spreading the Gospel message, and of bringing honest souls to a knowledge of the truth? Are your missionary sons gaining strength and achieving success through an understanding of the Savior's blessed assurance: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me?" Let the answer be a solemn and determined resolution for future action!