The Story of the College of Opportunity By Lydia Burrows The following pageant and program was Ward, Mount Ogden Stake, Music 1. Improve the Shining Moments. (Congregation. ) 2. Those Songs my Mother Used to Sing. (Chorus.) 3. Cast Thy Bread Upon the Waters. (Sacrament. ) 4, Prayer Perfect. Sacrament. ) 5. Home Sweet Home. (During beginning of Reading.) (Chorus— Characters and Stage The stage setting: There are five Work and Business Ladies, three presented at the conference of the Fifth Ogden, Utah. Seated at a table on one side of the stage and two working on colorful work on the other side of the stage. The stage is decorated with pretty work that has been done in the work and business meetings. Reader: Home, Home is not built of brick and stone; it needs something to endear it. Home is where the heart can bloom and some kind word to cheer it. All the good things of life, are brought into the sacred place where we live, our home. Yes, in youth we feel that life is so full of joy and pleasure. We're given  ee PAGEANT, COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY every advantage and opportunity. Not until we reach the age of twenty or twenty-five do we realize we are not as accomplished as we thought we were. Then we begin to wish for an opportunity to keep abreast of the times, in Religion, Art, Drama, Literature, Psychology, Home-making, last but not least we long for some social contact to satisfy these longings. If we were to open a door to satisfy these longings and only admit a select few, how we would long to enter and enroll. We have such a college of opportunity right here in our midst. The door is open to all who wish to enter. Cost, yes, $1.00 per year for the text-book, or magazine which comes as a messenger of light; filled with love and inspiration; going over land and sea, bringing tidings of joy, culture and refinement to the remotest hamlet of the world. Uniting them all together in one common interest. From this college are sent out once a month two ladies. (Two ladies enter from the side and walk leisurely to their place on stage.) Rain or shine they call upon each family in their designated group to make sure that no one is in need, to aid in case of sickness or trouble, and to receive any contribution to be used for those in distress. Absolute want is almost impossible, as is neglect in the case of sickness or death. No one can feel friendless or alone. Psychology, Social service, and influencing human behavior. (Three ladies enter, Matron, Old lady, and School girl.) There's no time limit set for learning, we learn from the cradle to the grave: Why do people remain far below their limit of efficiency even when it is decidedly to their interest to climb, to approach the goal? We may be found among those who will be counted as creative forces in the society of tomorrow. 'Tis said: 'New occasions teach new duties. Time makes ancient good uncouth They must upward still and onward Who would keep abreast of Truth." The things we long for most of all, such as travel, society, may answer to our earnest call. As memory takes back a panorama extending over the entire globe, showing the high points in the age-old endeavor of man to entertain his fellow creatures. There has been no break in STORY OF THE COLLEGE OF OPPORTUNITY the tradition of tale-telling. The story is a fundamental need in the heart of men and women, today, as of old. In our Literary Dept., we've covered a period of nearly five thousand years. We've traveled in Egypt, read the first stories ever written. As we recall now, some of the wonderful visits we have had with choice folks who lived long ago. They have left for us monuments in the great masterpieces of art. These master minds and artists have caught the gleam and tried to interpret in harmony, in color, in form and in word for our benefit. We have added to our list of friends, choice new ones such as Madame Schumann Heink. (Enters in costume and sings lullaby.) We have traveled in Venice where the streets are as a mirror and the quietness is almost sublime. We have visited Sunny Italy—the land of song. (Neapolitan Nights.) Met some of the greatest living novelists of our day, Willa Cather, Sarah Orne Jewet, Bess Streeter Aldrich and others. Renewed our acquaintance of Martha Washington, first lady of the land, George Washington, father of our country. (Minuet, softly.—George W. Enters from right of stage and Martha W. From left. They meet in the center of the stage and curtsey. Steps up two steps onto platform and curtsey again. The flag is unfurled at the back of stage. The Star-Spangled Banner is played, audience arises and sings one verse and chorus.) I am sure when the time comes for the last curtain to fall on the drama of life, and we pass from this sphere of action we will be able to meet, know and converse with these wonderful characters sometime, somewhere. "Tis said man shall not live by bread alone. Religion plays an im- 149 portant part in our nation, country, and home. Home, no matter where we go, what we do, we always return back home with our gain, be it temporal or spiritual. We have studied the Bible, the book of the Jews. (Naomi and Ruth enter and take their places on the stage.) The Book of Mormon, the history of the people who inhabited this continent. The people with the red-skins, our brothers and sisters. (Enter the Indian Chief in full dress. He crosses stage and beckons to others and four more Indians follow onto stage.) (The Nephite Lamentation—Cornet back stage. ) Now for the next three years, we will have the privilege of studying the Doctrine and Covenants, the book of laws, and revelations. Telling us how to live, why we are here, and where we are going. (I Need Thee Every Hour—very softly.) Christ said, (Spirit enters and kneels in center of stage in the attitude of prayer to conclusion): "Seek ye first the Kingdom of Heaven and all else shall be added. The name of our college of opportunity is Relief Society; which makes better homes, better wives, better mothers, and better children. Tis like a book The members are the leaves The Presidency the covers That protecting beauty gives. At first the pages of the book Are blank and purely fair But time soon writeth memories And painteth pictures there. Love is a little golden clasp That bindeth up the trust Oh! Break it not, lest all the leaves Should scatter and be lost. Closing song, Prayer,—Curtain.