Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Doctrine and Covenants (First Week in May) LittLE CHILDREN, THE SACRAMENT, AND THE SABBATH LESSON VIII 1. Little Children. The disciples of Jesus came unto him in Galilee, saying: "Who is greatest in the kingdom of heaven?' Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, and said: "Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven., Whosoever therefore shall humble himself, as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name, receiveth me. But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea." (Matthew 18:1-6.) Z. Later when the Master returned to Judea, little children were brought unto him that he should put his hands on them and pray, and his disciples rebuked them that brought them. But when Jesus saw this he was much displeased, and said unto them: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God. Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, aes blessed them." (Mark 10:14- 3). Infant Baptism. Regardless of the love which Jesus thus expressed for little children, many early sectarian leaders espoused the doctrine that those who are without baptism are irretrievably lost and eternally damned. While opinion concerning the severity of the punishment supposed to be meted out to such children has undergone some considerable modification within recent years, yet sectarian churches representing more than ninety percent of the world's Christian population are still baptizing infants. It is a relief to turn from such a manifestly unfair practice to the heartening word of God to modern Israel. In speaking of future judgments, the Lord said to the Prophet Joseph: "But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me." (Doctrine and Covenants, 29: 46, 47.) The words of the Prophet Joseph delivered at Nauvoo on the occasion of the funeral service of the child of Mr. Windsor P. Lyon, are equally as explicit: "The doctrine of baptizing children, or sprinkling them, or they must welter in hell, is a doctrine not true, not supported by Holy Writ, and is not consistent with the character of God. All children are redeemed by the blood of Jesus 180 Christ." (History of the Church, Vol. 4, p. 554.) 4. Proper Age for Baptism. The time at which children become accountable before the Lord is also fixed by revelation, as follows: "For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized. And _ their children shall be baptized for the remission of their sins when eight years old, and receive the laying on of the hands." (Doctrine and Covenants, 68:26, 27.) 5. That normal children of this age are prepared to form proper judgments, and therefore to know the difference between right and wrong, is attested by the widespread judicial practice of admitting their testimony in court procedure. Infants, on the other hand, are not sufficiently developed to discriminate between right and wrong. 6. Responsibility of Parents. The responsibility of parents for preparing their children for baptism into the Church is clearly set forth in the words of the Lord, as follows: "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." (Ibid. 68:25.) 7. Universality of the Requirement. Shortly after the Church was organized, the question was raised by some who had previously been baptized whether they might be admitted to the Church without re-baptism. The indispensability of baptism in the way prescribed and through the authority given by the Lord is plainly set forth: "Behold, I say unto you that all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE old covenants have I caused to be done away in this thing; and this is a new and everlasting covenant, even that which was from the beginning. Wherefore, although a man should be baptized an hundred times it availeth him nothing, for you cannot enter in at the strait gate by the law of Moses, neither by your dead works. For it is because of your dead works that I have caused this last covenant and this church to be built up unto me, even as in days of old. Wherefore, enter ye in at the gate, as I have commanded." (Ibid. 22:1-4.) 8. Sacrament of the Lord's Supper. The sacrament of the Lord's Supper had its beginning on the night of the Feast of the Passover immediately preceding the Savior's crucifixion. 'At this time when Jesus and his disciples were together in an upper room, he broke bread, blessed it, and gave it to them, saying: "Take, eat; this is my body." He. Also took the cup, blessed it, and gave it to them, saying: "Drink ye all of it: For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins."' (Matthew 26:27, 28.) 9, Sacramental Emblems. During the dark ages of Christian history, understanding of the nature and purpose of the Sacrament was largely lost; some even claimed that its emblems, the bread and wine, actually and literally became the real flesh and blood of the Master. It will be re- 'called that shortly after the church organization had been effected Joseph and his wife returned to their home at Harmony, Pennsylvania. Of an experience that occurred a few months thereafter he says: "Early in the month of August Newel Knight and his wife paid us a visit.  As neither his wife nor mine had been as yet confirmed, it was proposed that we should confirm them, LESSON DEPARTMENT and partake together of the Sacrament, before he and his wife should leave us. In order to prepare for this I set out to procure some wine for the occasion, but had gone only a short distance when I was met by a heavenly messenger, and received the following revelation." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 106.) 10. Following is an excerpt: "Listen to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer, whose word is quick and powerful. For, behold, I say unto you, that it mattereth not what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink when ye partake of the sacrament, if it so be that ye do it with an eye single to my glory?remembering unto the Father my body which was laid down for you, and my blood which was shed for the remission of your sins. Wherefore, a commandment I give unto you, that you shall not purchase wine neither strong drink from your enemies; wherefore, you shall partake of none except it is made new among you." (Doctrine and Covenants, 27:1-4.) On this authority the Latter-day Saints use water in the Sacrament in the place of wine. 11. The duty of the Latter-day Saints with respect to the Sacrament is plainly set forth in the words of the Lord as follows: "It is expedient that the Church meet together often to partake of bread and wine in the remembrance of the Lord Jesus." (Ibid. 20:75.) 12. The Sacramental Prayers. After this manner the elder or priest shall administer the Sacrament: "He shall kneel with the church and call upon the Father in solemn prayer, saying: O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name of thy Son, Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls of all those who partake of it, that they may eat 181 in remembrance of the body of thy Son, and witness unto thee, O God, the Eternal Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name of thy Son, and always remember him and keep his commandments which he has given them; that they may always have his Spirit to be with them. Amen." (Ibid. 20:76, 77.) 13. It is recommended that students learn the above prayer by heart, also the one used in administering the water. (Verse 79.) It would also be well to ascertain the number of blessings and pledges entailed in each of these prayers. 14. Worthy Partakers of the Sacrament. The Lord has warned the unworthy not to partake of the Sacrament, and has particularly instructed members of the Church who have trespassed to abstain until reconciliation has been made, for "Wherefore, whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep." (I Cor. 12:27-30.) 15. Identity of the Lord's Day. The following Biblical statements are unequivocal with respect to the identity of the Sabbath day: "And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day. And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it; because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made." (Genesis 2:2, 3.) "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou 182 labor, and do aH thy work: But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested on the seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day, and hallowed it." (Exodus 20:8-11.) 16. It is generally admitted that Sunday is the first day of the week, rather than the seventh. Moreover, it is the day upon which the Savior rose from the tomb (Matthew 28:1), and is therefore called the "Lord's Day." The Jewish people still hold to the ancient custom of observing sabbath on the seventh day of the week; this is also true of the Seventh Day Adventists. Much criticism has been aimed by these people against the widespread Christian practice of observing sabbath on Sunday, rather than on Saturday. 17. Insofar as the Latter-day Saints are concerned this question is fully settled by modern revelation. In a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph on the occasion of his first visit to Zion, Jackson County, Missouri, the Lord says: "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, in other words, rejoicing and prayer." (Doctrine and Covenants 59:9-14.) Questions for Discussion and Review 1. Why do you regard the sectarian practice of baptizing little children as contrary to the spirit of the Gospel? 2. Why should parents be held responsible for the proper teaching of their children? 3. Justify our use of water instead of wine in the sacrament. 4. Have all members learn the two sacramental prayers. 5. Why do Latter-day Saints worship on Sunday instead of Saturday? LESSON DEPARTMENT 183 Teachers Topic THE BEATITUDES Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and to apply their beautiful truths in our daily lives. "Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for their's is the kingdom of heaven." By means of the Beatitudes, Christ fully explains who are fit to be the citizens of His kingdom. His explanations are so clear that every one can understand them. He sent out His servants to teach the world the principles of His great justice and love, and to warn against evil and injustice. These same servants were attacked and persecuted, tortured in body, deprived of liberty and perhaps of life. "Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution." Timothy 3:12. If this suffering is accepted cheerfully, in the knowledge that they were only humble instruments to carry His great message to others, they have a claim to enter the Kingdom which they have helped to establish through their faith and efforts. Christ and all the prophets who have ever spoken upon the earth have been insulted of men, but their life and labors have not been forgotten by God, our Heavenly Father, and they will receive the reward granted to those who faithfully labor in His vineyard. Joseph Smith, our beloved latterday prophet, gave up his life for the truth which had been given to him, and sealed his testimony with his blood. "We are now in a day of trial to prove ourselves worthy or unworthy of the life which is to come. Every calamity that can come upon mortal beings, will be suffered to come upon the few to prepare them to enjoy the presence of the Lord. Let any people enjoy peace and quiet, unmolested, undisturbed, never be persecuted for their religion, and they are very likely to neglect their duty, to: become cold and indifferent, and lose faith. * * * Hatred and persecution have been the lot of every man holding the oracles of the Kingdom of Heaven, to deliver to the children of men that has ever lived upon the earth. Wicked men, Satan, and all the powers of Hell and hate, are at war with every holy principle that God wishes to place in the possession of his children. That is the true reason of the hatred and persecution meted out for us." (Discourses of Brigham Young.) "For it must need be, that there is an opposition in all things. If not so righteousness could not be brought to pass, neither wickedness, neither holiness nor misery, neither good nor bad, etc." II Nephi 2:11. "Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake." "Rejoice and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you." References: Matthew 5:11-12. Luke 6:22-23-26. I Nephi 1:18-20. Mosiah XVII:1-13.  Literature THE DELIGHT OF GREAT Books (Third Week in May) HUCKLEBERRY FINN. Mark TWAIN Behind every book is the man: behind every man is the race; and behind the race are the natural and social environments." The great original forces in American literature have preached the religion of democracy. As the "Lincoln of our literature' Mark Twain freed it from the bondage of a literary brahminism and directed it into a new channel, that of recording its own national life. The fame of Mark Twain, one of the foremost of American novelists, rests not upon the recognition given to him as a humorist, but upon the fact that through his works "Roughing It,' "Life on the Mississippi," "Tom Sawyer," "Huckleberry Finn," and ''Pudd'nhead Wilson," he became the most eloquent advocate of democracy of his age. Mark Twain?Samuel Langhorne Clemens. The story of Mark Twain, the ablest of American humorists, a novelist of first rank, an historian and a philosopher, is a romance in itself? the romance of a genius emerging from poverty and becoming a national literary hero. John Clemens, a dreamer and an idealist, left Virginia with his young wife early in the twenties. The Clemens family was one of the thou- - sands that yielded to the lure of the West in the hope of bettering themselves. During their restless wandering over a period of ten years, six children were born to them. Samuel, the fifth child, was born at Florida, a little hamlet not far from the Mississippi in Missouri. The last move of the family was to Hannibal, "a loafing, down-at-the-heel, slave-holding, Mississippi town," about a hundred miles north of St. Louis on the west bank of the river. John Clemens was a sombre man palsied by defeat. Jane Clemens had married through temper after a quarrel with a young doctor of Lexington. So Mark Twain was born in a loveless household. We are told, "he did not remember ever having seen or heard his father laugh." The. Mother was the backbone of the family. Aunt Polly of "Tom Sawyer" iS a portrait of Jane Clemens, the embodiment of old-fashioned Calvinism, a madonna of the hairbrush punishing and forgiving alternately. She was an inflexible believer in the traditional in behavior; yet she had a kind heart. The alternate punishing and pleading had the inevitable result on the boy, Sam, he was in perpetual revolt against the traditions for which his mother stood. He went to school with reluctance and remained with loathing; he feared God and dreaded Sunday-school. The chief romance of the boyhood days was the River and its life. By its side the boy became Tom Sawyer and found the forbidden playmate Huck Finn. The tremendous Mississippi with its vastness and mystery was the maker of the Mark Twain of later years. The death of his father in 1847 was the first crisis in the boy's life. He was allowed to stop school, much to his satisfaction, and was apprenticed in a printing office. This work later took him to many eastern cities LESSON DEPARTMENT including. New York and Philadelphia. Homesickness for the river, however, brought him back to the Mississippi. Howard Bixby, the most famous of all Mississippi pilots, took Mark Twain as a cub pilot when he decided "to learn the river." The experiences of this period are vividly related in "Life on the Mississippi." The river became his training school in human understanding: "In that brief sharp schooling I got personally and familiarly acquainted with all the different types of human nature that are to be found in fiction, biography, or history. When I find a well-drawn character in fiction or biography, I generally take a warm personal interest in him, for the reason that I have known him before?met him on the river." Mark Twain became a licensed and trusted river-pilot in charge cf his own boat. Life drifted on smoothly and prosperously until the Civil War came and closed the river to commerce. Reluctantly he left the profession he loved far better than any he followed later. After a brief experience as a Confederate soldier Clemens went to his brother in Nevada. He entered into the life of the West, prospecting for gold and participating in all manner of wild-cat schemes for getting rich quick. It was a strange romantic life that of Virginia City, Nevada, in the boom days. The gold that the riverpilot adventurer struck, however, was with his pen when he became reporter for the Virginia City "Enterprise." To his first journalistic contributions he attached the pen name of "Mark Twain," a river-pilot's term meaning "safe water." Later he became a newspaper reporter in San Francisco. When Bret Harte became editor of the "Californian," Mark Twain was appointed to the staff, 185 and was "trimmed and trained and schooled" in the art of writing. The story of "Jim Smiley and His Jumping Frog" in 1865 made Mark Twain's name known throughout the country. In 1866 with fear and trembling he undertook 4 new role, that of a humorous lecturer. It was an immediate and overwhelming success, and for the rest of his life he was sure of an enthusiastic audience whenever he appeared in public. Mark Twain like Tom Sawyer loved the glare and trappings of leadership. It was by the cap and bells he became known at home and abroad. By and by these trappings were to be a millstone around his neck. As the years passed he became deeply philosophical about life, and he suffered keenly when his seriousness was taken as buffoonery. The next year he took an extended trip through Europe to Egypt and the Holy Land. The literary result of this "picnic" was "The Innocents Abroad." Although humorous it is a frank and honest work, a real book of travel. Mark Twain refused to rhapsodize over the sacred relics, landmarks, works of art, and historical associations unless he felt impressed. The book was a tremendous success. It was on the first momentous trip to Europe that Mark Twain met the young man whose sister, Olivia Langdon, he married three years later. Olivia Langdon was the idol of a wealthy merchant of Elmira. New York. It was a strange combination this creature of strange barbaric force with outlandish manners and appearance united with an aristocratic invalid. "Her life had been circumscribed," says Mr. Paine, "but she did not hesitate to undertake the task of polishing and purifying her companion. She had no wish to des- 186 troy his personality, to make him over, but only to preserve his best, and she set about it in the right way ?gently." To do this instinctively she kept him a child. "Youth" was the nickname she gave him. Mark Twain accepted his wife's rule implicitly, and rejoiced and gloried in it. His habitual swearing was repressed and only at long intervals he broke loose, an incorrigible naughty boy. Gorki, the Russian novelist, never forgot the demonstration of the sacredness of marriage as he saw it in Mark Twain's home. The next twenty years at Hartford, Connecticut, where he established his family, were happy fruitful years. His success was so phenomenal that he wrote, "I am frightened at my prosperity." He lived in grand style. There were always guests; the celebrities of the day were entertained with splendor. "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer," "Life on the Mississippi," "Huckleberry Finn" are the products of this happy period. In 1884 Mark Twain entered business, a partner in the publishing house that issued his books. In 1895 the company failed. When financial disaster came, as it had come to Scott, through no fault of his own, Mark Twain heroically assumed the debt Fe set out to earn the enormous amount, first by writing and later by a lecture tour of the world. The chief literary works of this period are "The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" and "Joan of Arc." In "The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court" we find the author's philosophy of life, a believer in the present and the future of Democracy. The past of Spencer and Scott with its glittering procession of knights and ladies had no charm for Mark Twain. He felt rather with Hugo and Dickens the sufferings of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the common man under ecclesiastical and social overlordship. From Aristophanes to the present humor has been the weapon of the conservative reformer; no one ever used it to better advantage than did Mark Twain. The great spiritual romance in the life of this great romancer was his passion for Joan of Arc. It began when as a boy he picked up in the street a scrap of paper containing the story of the life of the Maid of Orleans. After many years of interest and research "Joan of Arc" was written portraying this great historical character with spiritual tenderness that will make it endure. "T like it best of all my books, and it is the best," said its creator. The latter years of his life were saddened by the death of his wife and three of his four daughters. Much of the mellowness and refinement of later life was due to the influence of the wife he adored and the association with men like W. D. Howells and the Rev. Joseph Twitchell. On his seventieth birthday his nation tendered him its homage. In 1907 the University of Oxford conferred upon him?Mark Twain, whose schooling in the ragged rivertown had ended before he was twelve ?a Doctor's Degree. On the day of this honor a London newspaper said, "The highest and the greatest in the land have joined eagerly in all forms of tribute to this untitled friend of all mankind.?He has won the hearts of Englishmen as no living writer has done." In the famous seventieth birthday speech Mark Twain said, "Three score years and ten, it is the spiritual statute of limitations. You have served your term, well or less well, and you are mustered out." Mark Twain, the incarnate spirit of America was mustered out in 1910. The story of his life recorded by LESSON DEPARTMENT Albert Bigelow Paine as it was dictated is perhaps the best biographical work written in America. To the completed autobiography Samuel Langhorne Clemens attached the following last statement: I will construct a text: What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words! His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself. All day long, and every day, the mill of his brain is grinding, and his thoughts, not those other things, are his history. His acts and his words are merely the visible, thin crust of his world, with its scattered snow summits and its vacant wastes of water?and they are so trifling a part of his bulk! A mere skin enveloping it. The mass of him is hidden?it and its volcanic fires that toss and boil, and never rest, night nor day. These are his life, and they are not written, and cannot be written. Every day would make a whole book of eighty thousand words?three hundred and sixty-five books a year. Biographies are but the clothes and buttons of the man?the biography of the man himself cannot be written. ?M. T. To Mark Twain, the humorist, who wrote for the masses and made them laugh, the novelist, who caught the romance of a period of American life, the philosopher, who denounced social tyranny and pretense, many tributes have been paid: "One of the supreme novelists of the world." ?"One of the great writers of America's social history." ?'Huckleberry Finn' may be recognized by the next century as the great American novel for which the Wise Men of Literature have watched for so many years." The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. ' "You don't know me without you 187 have read a book by the name of 'The Adventures of Tom Sawyer,' but that ain't no matter," says Huckleberry Finn as he opens his story. "Tom Sawyer" is a faithful picture of boy life in a sleepy little Mississippi town. Tom is a "smart" American boy, sophisticated, prudent, bossy. After reading about Aunt Polly, the white-washing of the fence, Tom's school-boy love, Huck and the wart cure, the pirates island, we are agreed that the tale is the best boy story ever written. It is, indeed nothing more than the stery of Mark Twain's own boyhood. Huck Finn, the forbidden boy of Hannibal, was in reality Tom Blakenship, the son of the town drunkard. Unwashed, illfed, unspoiled by convention, Huck was a genuine hero. Tom is the creation of a clever literary artist, but only a genius could have created Huck, the delightful picaro.: Mark Twain at first intended the tale as a sequel to "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer." As the story grew, however, it became not an adventure but a confession, a passionate protest against the civilization of the period. The novels are a reliable social record of American slavery. While Mrs. Stowe in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" portrays abolition sentiment with burning enthusiasm, Mark Twain in his novels portrays slavery giving both points of view, the beautiful patriarchal side and the horrible side, the living dread of the negro that he would be sold down the river. Huck tells his own story. At the opening of the story he is under the "civilizing" guardianship of Widow Douglas, another Aunt Polly. He must live to the sound of the bell, go to school, sleep indoors, have spelling lessons at night, and be generally respectable. He would often slip out at night and sleep in the woods "to rest him," and when he got "uncommon" tired he played hookey from school. The gang, Tom Sawyer, and Miss Watson's nigger, Jim, were his anchorage. Then one night Huck's father returned. He caught the boy and took him up the river to live in an old cabin. Most of the days were comfortable enough smoking and fishing, with no books nor study. But there were the days when the boy was locked in the cabin while the father went to the ferry to trade fish and game for whiskey. The return of the druken father meant severe whippings and abuse for the boy. Huck planned to escape when he could stand it no longer. As this must be an escape forever, every detail was planned to give the appearance of death. After getting out from a hole in the floor, the door was smashed and things generally spattered with blood from a wild pig. Satisfied with the horrible effect, Huck started down the river in the canoe with a few supplies and a gun. 'At first the days were spent in hiding, and the nights paddling down the river. By and by, curiosity led Huck to the ferry landings to hear the gossip of the day. To his satisfaction he learned that his escape had given the desired impression. He was free. Day after day the river and its life provided romance and mystery for the young traveler. Then came the findings of the camp-fire remains near his own camp. In suspense he waited until it was safe to investigate. There asleep he found Miss Watson's nigger, Jim. "Well, you see, it 'uz dis way. Ole missus?dat's Miss Watson?she pecks on me all de time, en treats me poorty rough, but she awluz said she wouldn't sell me down to Orleans. But I noticed dey was a nigger trader roun' de place considerable lately, en RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I begin to git oneasy. 'Well, one night I creeps to de do' pooty late, en de do' warn't quite shet, en I hear old missus tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans, but she didn't want to, but she could git eight hund'd dollars for me, enit 'uz sich a big stack o' money she couldn't resis'. De widder she try to get het to say she wouldn't do it, but I never waited to hear de res'. I lit out mighty quick, I tell you." On they went. Then the river began to rise covering the swamp and small islands. All manner of queer things floated down the river. One day a frame house floated by. Into it, the adventurers scrambled in search of usable things. Jim was the first to discover the body of a man, shot in the back. The maneuverings of Jim to keep Huck from investigating the identity of the corpse are touched with pathos. But more pathetic is the revelation that closes the story. _ "Doan' you 'member de house dat was floatin' down de river, en dey wuz a man in dah, kivered up, en I didn't let you come in?'?It was Huck's father. The days were care-free ones for Huck. Not so for Jim, there was always the dread of recapture with its inevitable punishment. Then, too, was the longing for the wife and little ones left in Hannibal. When Huck ventured ashore Jim stayed hidden in the canoe. Capture seemed very near on one occasion when two men approached the camp. Huck's quick wit saved the day by warning them to keep away from ''smallpox." Paddling along on the raft one night a river steamer suddenly loomed up, "like a black cloud with rows of glowworms round it." Jim went overboard on one side; Huck LESSON DEPARTMENT on the other. Huck swam to shore, but Jim was missing. Huck was taken in by the Grangerfords, members of a clan of aristocracy at feud with a neighboring family, the Shepherdsons. It was a new experience fot Huck. The men carried guns to church even, always alert for the enemy. The story of this feud is one of the most impressive in all literature. Huck sees a man shot at from behind a bush. 'Asking a reason for such action he is told: "He never done nothing to me. I must kill him on account of the feud." It was Huck, however, that carried the notes that enabled Miss Sophia, a Grangerford, to elope with Harvey Shepherdson. But the feud found Jim so all went on again. Two or three days passed. They came across "the Duke" and "the Dauphin," two of as great rogues as one could ever find in life or in fiction. Their adventure was entertainment. They tackled Shakespearean production, lectures on temperance, circus, dancing school, missionarying, mesmerizing, doctoring, and fortune-telling. Huck became the advertising manager and enjoyed it immensely. Then came the most daring exploit of all. Hearing of the death of a wealthy slave owner and the expected arrival of brothers from England, "The Duke" and "the Dauphin" took the place of the English brothers of the dead man. However, the relatives arrived and proved their identity before wealth, slaves, and land were disposed of by the rogues. Even these picaresque experiences became too much for Huck. The climax came when he found the rogues scheming to dispose of Jim. One day Jim was missing. Huck found out that Jim was being held for reward by a farmer, Mr. Phelps. Now Huck was full of trouble, trou- 189 ble with his conscience. He decided to write to Miss Watson, and tell her where to find Jim. No, Jim was his friend. "IT was a-trembling, because I'd got to decide, forever, betwixt two things, and I knowed it. I studied a minute, sort of holding my breath, and then says to myself: "All right, then, I'll go to hell'? and tore it up." To protect Jim and stay near him, Huck left the rogues. It was a strange chain of circumstances that brought Huck to be taken for Tom Sawyer by Mrs. Phelps. Then came Tom on a visit and took the role of Sid. Plans for Jim's escape were made and accomplished. During the escape Tom's leg was seriously injured. Aunt Polly was sent for: then all was revealed. Jim went back to security as Miss Watson's nigger; Huck to the guardianship of Widow Douglas. "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" is one of the books that has won a secure place in men's affections because it has portrayed human nature. Because of the convincing realism of the narrative the book is placed with "Robinson Crusoe" in the realm of great fiction. Suggestions for Study. A. Materials. 1. The Delight of Great Books. ?Erskine. 2. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.?Twain. 3. Some Makers of American Fiction.?Phelps. 4. Autobiography of Twain.?Paine. B. Projects. 1. Music: a. Negro Spirituals. Z. Reading: Mark 190 a. Whitewashing the Fence. B. Dialogue on French Language. 3. Review: a. Mark Twain as Tom Sawyer. 4. Discussion: a. What is Humor? C. Method: 1. The material in the journal is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE adequate if no other material 1: available. 2. Try to remember that this is not a lesson in literary criticism. 3. The "delight" of the book is the objective; therefore simplicity of presentation is the best approach. Social Service (Fourth Week in May) DEVELOPING INITIATIVE AND SELF-RELIANCE LESSON VIII Growth is a law of life. It is biologically natural for a parent to protect and care for its young. It is just as natural for a young person at adolescence to feel the urge for independence and self-guidance. The progress and safety of civilization depends on the degree of efficiency with which youth develops the urge to self-guidance. The aim of this lesson is to have parents realize the importance of the following points in child growth: 1. Independence and initiative are dependent upon general health and confidence. 2. Children will naturally assert this spirit of initiative but will need stimulation and guidance. 3. The development of independence does not suddenly bloom forth at adolescence but is gradual throughout childhood. 4, This growth can be thwarted by parents who do not reward its manifestations with pleasing approval. 5. Release of definite guidance is difficult for parents but is very necessary. 6. Parental control with child independence can be and should be exercised by teaching without making a child dependent, fearful and unassertive. The lesson should be developed in such a way as will make these conclusions clear and emphatic. Suggestions for Procedure: The teacher should introduce the subject in the preceding class period by reading to the class the statement of Secretary Ray Lyman Wilbur found on page 20 and the statement of Martha Van Rensselaer on page 38 of "White House Conference 1930." A similar challenge to study can be made by quoting a statement made by Judge Ben Lindsay several years ago to the effect that we spend too much time preparing the path of life for the child and not enough time preparing the child for the path of life. With this as a challenge, go carefully over the reading guide so that the class members will appreciate the fact that the lesson is longer than usual but is a very interesting one. The regular date for this lesson will follow the home study. The first part of the period should be de- LESSON DEPARTMENT voted to drill on the material called for by the reading guide. The remaining time should be spent by the teacher presenting the points suggested in the supplementary material and asking the class to interpret, evaluate, and illustrate the points. It will be especially helpful if class members cite cases comparable to the statements made. Class Members Reading Guide. Growth, p. 31, Habits, pp. 3-7, Habits, pp. 25-31. I. Reread the paragraph studied in the previous lesson in Growth, p. 31. Notice especially the statement that independence begins early in life and should be encouraged. Notice that there are no standards. This fact requires that parents and teachers must be more thoughtful in developing this power in children. Notice carefully the caution against the perpetuation of "cradle habits' and "emotional dependence." II. From Habits?Chapter one, learn clearly the meaning and significance of "security" and "personal achievement" as fundamental needs of childhood. Be able to show the relation of the following items to these basic needs: Economic welfare, p. 3. Protection of adults, p. 3. A responsibility in the group. New experiences. Opportunity for various forms of expression. Worry or quarreling in the home. Development of fears. Teasing. Unguided play. III. Turn to Habits, pages 25-31, and study the effects of various factors in the environment as they relate to the growth of independence. Read hurriedly the discussion of facts which point out the problems. Formulate an answer to these questions based on the issue raised on page 29, 191 Does training in independence remove parental teaching responsibility? Must parents give facts and experience to the children? How can good judgment in children be developed without parents doing the judging for them? What should be done when children make wrong judgments so that the self-confidence of the children will not be destroyed? Is the author correct in saying that "Tt is easier, and perhaps pleasanter, to direct children's activities, than it is to teach them to think and do for themselves?" Selection of food, use of money and willingness to perform required tasks are listed as fields in which independence should be developed. Bring to class a list of at least six other activities in which the judgment, good sense, and individual responsibility of the young person are necessary. Supplementary Material: 1. The importance of early teaching on the spirit of independence and conflict at adolescence. "During childhood, social control is exerted in most instances by the adults with whom the child is in contact at home and at school. In adolescence, there is a marked sub. Serviency to the opinions characterizing companions of the same age. If the social sanctions of the contemporaneous age-group conflict with the codes of the elders as embodied in the parents, the latter are likely to see their disapproval flouted in deference to the opinions of youth, "The suggestibility of youth is easily seen in the fads and fashions affected by the younger generation. Always they must be in the mode of the moment as to clothing, sports and 192 slang. There is almost a horror of dressing, acting or talking differently from other boys and girls. "Thus, at adolescence, the boy or girl grows away from family standards and into those of the high school, college or place of work into which he or she has entered. Very often it is only a superficial growing away, and although young companions are imitated in many respects, beneath the surface conformity, many of the earlier patterns of conduct and ideals remain intact. The kisses and the lipstick of the two girls first quoted in the preceding paragraph, do not inevitably lead to the viewpoint of the last. It takes deeper influences than these to preserve or destroy chastity, or any other behavior pattern which has been built into the personality securely, in the earlier stages of the socializing process. The thing which parents do not understand is that ethical standards and emotional attitudes are developed through experiences more than through exhortations.'" (Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 243-45.) 2. Special problem of the girl in our modern world. A. "The girl receives a greater share of disapproval from her elders than does a boy. But some of this is a self-defensive clinging to standards with which the older generation is familiar. Because of their maturity, they feel that a responsibility rests upon them to act as the guides and mentors of youth. Unfortunately, they do not know how to make their advice applicable to the situations as they exist. Many changes have been made in political and economic institutions, but the social institutions of marriage and the family are only beginning to feel the effects of these. We cannot tell with certainty what will be expected of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE women in the future or for what destiny we should prepare the girl who is under our tutelage. We try to: find reassurance for ourselves by insistence on the old regulations, in the hope of producing some semblance of stability in a day of fluctuating standards.'" (Blanchard: The Child and society, pp. 259-60.) B. Under the title "Daughters of Men" Elizabeth Harrison tells a beautiful story of a father who insisted that he and the girl's brother should carry all of the bundles. The last scene in the little narrative tells of the father taking even the newspaper from the little girl and handing it to the boy. As the father did this he remarked: "Girls must not carry bundles! That is what brothers are for." Miss Harrison then makes the following comment: "As the train sped on I gazed out of the window, but I did not see the trees and pastures. Instead, there passed before me a long procession? centuries long?of "daughters who must not carry bundles,' bending, sometimes breaking under the burdens which every true woman must sooner or later carry. And I wondered when well-meaning, loving fathers would learn that a hot-house training is not the best training for their daughters, who must one day take part in the battles of life, or let their souls wither and die under the first chilling frost of adversity, or, perhaps, what is worse, far worse, through indolence grow callous and selfish and trample under foot the love and devotion which every true man brings to his bride, and unwittingly crush out this precious love, because she has never been trained to take responsibilities, and therefore does not know how to help him bear the burdens that must come sooner or later to all daughters as well as all, sons of men." (Harrison: Misun- LESSON DEPARTMENT derstood Children, pages 137-8.) 3. The effects of wrong types ol parental discipline are described in the following three paragraphs from Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, pp. 337-8-9. Methods of discipline: "The hygiene of discipline plays no small part in psychoprophylaxis. Nagging, arbitrary, or tyrannical parents and teachers either destroy the child's will or make it rebellious. The unstable and whimsical child is often but the victim of a nervous mother. The tyrannical, domineering father need not wonder when his son develops into a psychasthenic, weak, vacillating, and dependent upon others for guidance." Training in self-reliance and selfcontrol: ''Parental oversolicitude and excessive affection likewise tend to make the child dependent and to develop a mania for sympathy, the abnormal craving for love. The love bonds of infancy should normally dissolve as the child reaches maturity and be replaced by a tie of somewhat different nature. When this does not occur, when the relation of child to parent retains its infantile quality, the foundation is laid for a life of weakness and nervous invalidism. How to free the child from the circle of parental influence, without endangering the mellower filial attachment which should succeed it, is one of the most important problems of child-training. "Self-reliance does not grow up out of habits of dependence, nor does steadfastness develop out of uninhibited impulses." "The extreme suggestibility which marks the hysteria psychosis is best combated by a training which fosters, without overworking, the power of inhibition. As Williams well says, let the child 'be taught not to strike, not to follow, not to jeer, not to give in, even though others do so.' Let him 'learn to take pride in being his own nan, and not a puppet in the hands of others.' The culture of rationality also helps, for the hysterical is first and last uncritical. Whims and shallow impulsiveness do not thrive in the light of reason. Hysteria will be less common when education, from the kindergarten to the university, has more of the scientific background. Irrational prejudices can be combated by the same means.'" On this point a few sentences quoted from Faegre and Anderson: "Child Care and Training," will be stimulating: "In one family a child of three much enjoyed washing his hands when allowed to push his little stool in place, reach the soap, and turn on the faucet himself. His father, thinking to save time, insisted when he was in charge that the nonsense ot the stool getting be omitted. This meant the child had to stretch his little arms uncomfortably and could not have the fun of helping. The time wasted in quieting a rebellious child more than offset what would have been spent in preparing for the 'rite,' which has also the advantage of teaching the child methodical habits which he enjoyed." (p. 160.) "If we want to build up courage we must show the child that we trust him." (p. 198.) "It is only by the actual facing of difficult situations that the child builds up a technique of handling them. The child whose parents, for example, encourage her to dissolve into tears and seek their help in every difficulty is building up a type of response which will greatly handicap her in the ordinary rough and tumble of life." (p. 236.) ""Self-reliance cannot be taught too early. From the time the six-months-old baby is left alone in a 194 room to amuse himself, to the time when the youth becomes self-supporting, he needs constant, exhilarating practice in being able to do for himself." (pp. 236-7.) "Early giving of responsibilities is very closely allied with self-reliance. The growing child should never, of course, be subjected to heavy, routine work; drudgery in childhood does not lead to a happy attitude toward work later. But the assignment of small regular duties should begin very early, while the child's interest in helping is keen. If we wish to make an attitude of responsibility habitual, we must give pleasurable practice from an early age." (p. 237.) "Oversolicitous, overanxious parents often find themselves involved in trouble. Two such parents spent a year going from clinic to clinic, seeking a physical basis for the behavior of their child, for it took them that long to conclude that she really was merely 'spoiled from over-attention,' as they had been told." (p. 243.) "Mothers often worry unnecessarily about the teasing that goes on among the children of a family. While such behavior is hard on the mother, it has the effect eventually of forcing the individual to laugh at or ignore it." (p. 245.) "The danger that the child will suffer mistreatment at the hands of the others is no greater than that he will become flabby and spineless from never having to stand up for himself."" (p. 246.) 4, Analysis of problem children. In Sayles: "The Problem Child at Home" are found many case studies worthy of consideration. The fact that the lack of the proper methods of stimulating and developing self-reliance is a cause in such cases ls intimated in the following brief statements: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "One generalization only can be made regarding most of these children: they have received, during part or all of their lives, the too concentrated attention of their elders." (p. 16.) "Here, for example, is a mother of a four-year-old boy who is keeping him bound to her by continuing to perform for him a host of minor services?feeding, dressing, bathing ?which he should be learning to perform for himself; who is praising him extravagantly before his face and rushing to his aid when he quarrels with other children in a way that is rapidly turning him into the terror of the neighborhood." (p. 30.) "One other example of exaggerated parental love may perhaps be offered without straining too far the patience of the reader?that of a tenyear-old only son whose parents were about equally responsible for his spoiling. Harold had never escaped from the bonds of infantile dependence on his mother; he could still hardly dress himself, and the task of getting him off to school in the morning was an almost impossible one, for he would insist on coming back time after time for one more kiss. He demanded that his mother or father lie down with him at bed time, he sucked his thumb and wanted to be his mother's baby. About family errands and school work alike he was utterly irresponsible." (pp. 34-5.) "Those who work with disordered lives, whether in clinics for children or in private practice or in agencies for adults, find numerous instances in which this pattern of parent-child relationships dominates the picture. The boy of four who has no notion of feeding or dressing himself or of attempting to control his temper; the boy of fifteen who can't 'stick it out' at camp because he misses his mother LESSON DEPARTMENT so; the man of thirty who puts off his marriage from year to year because he can't leave his mother in loneliness?these, and hosts of other variants on the theme, are familiar figures to those who deal with ill-adjusted personalities." (p. 39.) The following quotation summarizes the author's positive suggestions: Pages 6-7 from Sayles: "The Problem Child at Home": "Gradually he must learn to hold his own in a larger world of which his home is only the center. "It is this desire for growth, for freedom and opportunity to grow, which reveals the second great emotional need of the child, full satisfaction of which is to be gained only from and through his parents. To many parents this need is less obvious than the need for security; if only they can keep their little boy or girl safe, and their own, they hardly think of the young man or woman in the making. The child, if he be not granted freedom and opportunity in gradually increasing measure, may indeed eventually break away and grasp them for himself. Unfortunately, the prize thus acquired will no longer be what it might have been; the youth, however loudly he may proclaim his independence and adulthood, will be marked by imma turities which he does not himself recognize and cannot shake off. For growing up is a stage-to-stage process, and if he is held back at the earlier stages and then seeks to pass them at a single bound, he inevitably misses the practice along the way which would have fitted him little by 195 little to make intelligent use of each new experience encountered. Security and freedom to grow, though sometimes they may thus interfere with one another, are not, however, necessarily antagonistic The child who is encouraged, as he emerges from infancy, to mingle with other children and to find a great part of his satisfaction in relations with them; who is given ample opportunity to handle and learn about things, to orient himself in the physical world and the world of ideas; who is taught to fight his own battles and encouraged to make his own plans: such a child will not be likely to suffer from over-security in his home life; the sympathy, counsel, and fellowship he receives there will rather be sources of strength. It is only when such parental attentions are exaggerated and made to overshadow every other interest in his life that his growth is hampered by them." References: 1. Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 243-5. 2. Blanchard: The Child and Society, pp. 259-60, 3. Harrison: Misunderstood Children, pp. 137-8. 4. Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, pp. 337, 8, 9. 5. Faegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 160, 198, 236, 236-7, 237, 243, 245, 246. 6. Sayles: The Problem Child at Home, pp. 16, 30, 34-5, 39, 6-7. "Prohibition may not be operating ideally, but we have come a long way from the state of affairs in 1916 when almost four times as much money was squandered for liquor in this country as was spent on education, and more than twice as much as was expended by the national government."