Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEARCH under the snow for the first violet, scatter crumbs on the ground for the red breasted robin if you would know the thrill of spring's awakening. Then with the lark sing a joyous song: MRS. MARY PRIESTLY of St. Pierce, Fla., is City Manager, while Mrs. Eloise Brown of Charlotte, N. C., holds the position of sergeant of police. RHEA CLYMAN has been expelled from Russia because of a series of articles in London papers. FPITH WHARTON'S novel, "The Gods Arrive," is one of the most popular of the new books. Dr. EMMA M. DENKENGER'S "Elizabeth and Leicester," is just published by Bretanos. RIO DE JANEIRO is the latest country to.*grant suffrage to women. LORENCE KELLY, famed humanitarian and social reformer, died recently in Philadelphia. ORWIN, Ohio, has a woman mayor and all city jobs filled by women. That they all received a second term would indicate efficiency in office, MRS. LOUISE Y. ROBISON and Mrs. Ruth May Fox of Utah, presidents of two of the largest organizations affiliated with the National Council of Women have joined forces with the Woman's Union for Law Enforcement in the effort to prevent any legislation either state or national that would weaken or repeal the 18th Amendment. Alice STONE BLACKWELL, daughter of the pioneer suffragist, Lucy Stone, writes, "From the sewing circle to the President's Cabinet in 100 years, may sound like a dream but it is the probable achievement of the American wom- 39 an. HE National League of Women Voters in a recent survey has found 87,506 women have held Federal executive office in the last twelve years. The greatest surprise is the number of women in the foreign service as they are well represented both in the diplomatic and consular service. 156 PROFESSOR ELIZABETH BAKER of the department of economics at Columbia University suggests the establishment of a tempo of new machine installations so that the complimentary social and economic changes may be made at the same pace. ISS JOAN PAGE and Audrey Sale-Barker, English aviatrices, found a new use for the lip stick when they crashed in a dense African jungle. With the crimson stick they wrote a note and sent it by a Masao herdsman to a village for aid. LADY BAILY and Amy Johnson Mollison were both reported lost while on flight towards Cape Town. These daring English women kept the officials of two continents in a state of anxiety for several days. GARAH TEASDALE, the poet, is dead but always will she live for those who love the melody of her rhythmic verse. Miss ELIZABETH MARBURY died recently and because of her high talents and useful life one of the most noteworthy funerals ever held in New York RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was held for her, attended by state and city officials, writers, actors and other professionals and yet she counted her life a failure for she had often said, "The only real success for woman is to marry, have children and fa home." EDITH SITWELL has just published a delightful novel called "Bath" in which she depicts in a most entertaining and delightful way the social glory of that delightful watering place of England in the 18th Century. ROSA PONSELL is going to her, mother's native land to sing at the great music festival in Florence, Italy. While there she is to be presented to Mussolini. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER, Ruth Draper and Dorothy Sands are three of the foremost women who are bringing back the classic drama in a form of monologue. This idea of the one woman theatre has cast a spell on lovers of dramatic art and the theatres where they play are filled, night after night and week after week. It is one of the marvels of this jazz age when three women have taken to themselves the whole field of the art called theatre.