[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. AUGUST, 1917. No. THE BATTLE IS ON. The heart of a mother is a sensitive container in O Dread, which all elements meet, mix. or separate in O Fear! bewildering complexity and with lightning changes. Now that war is actually upon us, and our sons  our splendid, half-matured, carefully guarded and prayerfully reared sons  must needs answer their country^ call, we mothers swim in a sea of faith, fear, doubt, loyalty, anxiety and invincible courage, which deadens the senses to the common-place and which frames every trifle in the halo of uncertain divinities. It is no use for calm and serious fathers, for They Will Go! sonless mothers, nor for philosophical unmarried women to advance logic and to expound theoretical possibilities of safety and security. Our sons will be called, and many of them will go: the flower of our fields and farms, our schools and colleges, of our homes and our state. The incorrigibles. the cowardly, the idle, the vicious  these will elude and escape the call by strategy and by unfair methods. But our boys  our clean, pure, brave, true young "Mormon" boys  these will be chosen by the thousands. True, we mothers may well comfort the lonely, sonless 
 wives and unmarried maids whose deepest sorrow is that they have no son to send. But you and I well, our hearts are strung on the quivering harp of death in life or life in death. Where is our help? When they go, my mothers, these sons of The Dangers. ours, O let us pray that they go as on a mission, as soldier? of the Cross. Tt is not death we fear  we Latter-day Saint mothers  death is a clean sorrow. But we know  for we see daily  the temptations that crowd the tents of the soldier boys. The filthy weed, the glass of vile intoxication, the unclean camp followers, the long absence from pure home surroundings  the veiled temptation of word and sneer  ah, these are the substance of our fears These, our young sons, are still so young! Yet, shall we falter? No, never. Not while Who Calls? the banner of liberty is unfurled, nor while oppression and tyranny seek to destroy this Nation. We women cannot fight  and yet who may tell? Women may yet fight as they did in the ancient days. But we have done one part, we have made our sacrifice. When our boys go, let them find us willing and brave, glad to be the mothers of soldiers. Our Country calls! Unto Him who has permitted all these things Our Help to come to pass we will offer our daily pray God!  We will find Him, for He is always on our way, and He will take from us the sting, the fear, the doubt, leaving with ns that beautiful courage which trusts in the ultimate Good. Calmly we may then go about our tasks, daily ministering to the poor, the dependent and the discouraged. If you are depressed, cheer up a sadder heart. If you are lonely, visit the sick and despondent. Forget self! Pray for our boys  not yours alone  but mine and of ours. Let us link around these soldier boys a chain of loving, daily prayer that shall guard them from ignoble death, unnecessary suffering, and from all uncleanness. Thus guerdoned they shall go forth as did Helaman's sons, two thousand of them, who went into that righteous war against the wicked Lamanites and unscathed, returned, because of their mother's prayers, unharmed. The Master, who counts the hairs of outcome, Let Us heads and who watches the sparrow's fall, Be At Rest. will not leave us nor our sons. They have been born under the covenant of the priesthood and they have a clear right to the protecting care of that priesthood. We have nothing to fear but our fears. Our sons will carry the gospel message into lands and climes never before visited by our elders. They will preach the gospel of Christ by their clean habits, their devotion to duty, and by their occasional spoken testimonies. Ah, that brings light to our eyes, comfort to our souls. These thousands of choice young men will be sources of inspiration and hope to whole battalions. We do not fear death for them  why should we. It is but going from this earth-room to heaven's halls. They will return, most of them, as clean and pure as when they left, and will be like gold seven times purified. Up With Sisters, Let us sing Zion! The Flag. WHAT OF OUR ARMY BOYS? We are glad to give place to the following communication sent to Airs. Emily S. Richards from the National Suffrage Headquarters in New York: Columbus, Ohio, 182 Tenth Ave., June 5, 1917. President Utah Suffrage Council of Women, Dear Madam  All the women of the world are this day confronted by the same vital question. Are we willing to give our sons to the Army unless we have assurance that they shall not pass through temptations and conditions worse than death before reaching the field of conflict, shall not lie in training camps that train the souls for the bottomless pit before they reach the trenches? At a meeting of 2,000 persons, called together by the Chamber of Commerce of Columbus, Ohio, on the eve of registration, to listen to speeches arousing enthusiasm, the enclosed resolutions were passed unanimously. Let the voice of the women all over the country be heard demanding that, as far as possible, the portion of their sons returned to them may be fit to enter the pure homes they are leaving. Then will our loyalty be the greatest. Will you move in this matter in your own way in your state, and will you immediately send a copy of these resolutions to Hon. Newton D. Baker. Secretary of War. Yours respectfully, A. W. Sabine, Chairman Resolutions Committee. RESOLUTIONS. Whereas, We, mothers of men, an called on to furnish our country's fighting force, and Whereas, It has been clearly shown in the experience of the troops on the Mexican border through the repressive measures in one camp, that prostitution was not necessary to the contentment or well-being of the men in the camp, but that, on the other 
 hand, its complete prohibition resulted in greater efficiency, discipline, contentment, and loyalty, and Whereas, It was also shown that segregation and prophylaxis do not minimize the evil, but only the results, and also, that regulation cannot be left to the discretion of the individual commanders for satisfactory solution, but must be made effective in uniform procedure through military order from headquarters. Tli ere fore, Be it Resolved, That we will not consent that our boys be sent to camps where they will meet an evil greater than death; that we will not give up their bodies and souls to the demon of impurity and to the horrors of that surround camp life, and to a disease that blights the life of coming generations, Unless our government, through its Secretary of War, establishes and enforces a clearly defined policy of moral sanitation, making prostitution inaccessible and punishing illicit indulgences on the part of all offenders regardless of rank. Enlist Now. Verona Banks Peterson. "Enlist now! Help your Country!" Comes the cry all o'er the land. Enlist now! Help the needy! * Come join our valiant band. For the Lord has "White Cross Sisters" For those wounded in life's fight. They need your help, or you need theirs To make lifes' burden light. They aid in want, in dire distress, They feed the mind, help souls progress. Enlist now! Join this order of the Army of the Lord! Help spread the gospel message to the homes that need His word. Help clothe the needy children of the armies of the poor. Help drive the demon "Ignorance" away from every door Where children dwell. In Zion, or abroad throughout the world, May we find recruiting stations, May we see our flag unfurled! The Relief Society needs you! Can't you hear your conscience call? There is work for every sister. Come, enroll now, one and all, Be a member of this order of the Army of the Lord. Learn yourself the gospel message. Help the Lord to spread His word! NEW YORK, N. Y.