[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III Genealogy and Literature - The Historical Fatherl]

Literature. Third Week in August. CHILDREN'S STORIES AND STORY WRITERS. Most of our stories for young folk have been produced within very recent years. Before the middle of the last century, there was almost no stories for children except fairy tales. Even Robinson Crusoe and Gulliver's Travels which are now commonly classed among the juvenile stories, were written for grownups. During the past seventy-five years, however, so many children's stories have been written that parents find great difficulty to select those that are most interesting and wholesome. The chief purpose of this lesson is to introduce our mothers to some of the best book companions for their children. Louisa M. Alcott deserves first place among the story writers for children. She was the first to devote her life to this work and the tales she produced have won her first place in the hearts of young people everywhere. The child's library education can hardly be counted complete unless he knows Little Women, Jo's Toys, Little Men, The Old Fashioned Girl, Eight Cousins, and the other charming young characters created by this gifted writer. Her stories are always home-like, natural, true to life. They radiate a sweet, wholesome atmosphere, giving an uplifting effect without preaching about it. Louisa Alcott was born in 1833, in New England. Her father, Bronson Alcott, was a man of letters, and a close associate of Emerson. Hawthorne, and other noted writers of the day. It to interesting in these days to know that Louisa became a nurse during the Civil War. Her Hospital Sketches gives her experiences during that conflict. She died in 1888. Kate Douglas Wiggin is another woman whose fame has been won by her literary work for the young. She was born in Philadelphia, but spent most of her life in California in kindergarten work. It was as a teacher of the little folk that she learned the art of telling stories for children. Among her choicest tales are The Birds' Christmas Carol, and Rebecca of Sunnybrook Patsy. Polly Oliver's Profamily, and She others. wrote Her are full of of The Story also tales sunshine, blended with a little sadness that makes them all the truer. They present sweet wholesome pictures of life that are good for young and old to dwell upon. Laura E. Richards is another writer who deserves special mention. Her stories are not of the same kind as those just suggested. She writes mostly short stories for little folk; Five Minute Stories, she calls them, and More Fire Minute Stories. They are just such little tales mothers and grandmothers need to charm the children off to dreamland, when they "cuddle doon at night." The Golden Windows, and Mother's Apron String, are two of Laura E. Richards' stories. Mark Twain can hardly be called a children's story writer, but some of his stories for young people have gained him great fame. The Prince and the Pauper is an intensely interesting tale for boys and girls, too. who are just entering their "teens." Tom Sawyer is full of fun and a very true picture of boy life. It reflects Mark's boyhood days when he lived along the Missouri in Hannibal, Missouri. The Story of a Bad Boy, by Thomas Bailey Aldrich is another interesting book. The boy pictured in it is not at all a bad boy. He is just a natural, wholesome-minded lad, whom it is good for other boys and girls to know. In The Page Story Book, by Thomas Nelson Page may be found some other charming tales from the sunny south, of the us and downs of boys and girls during the Civil War struggle. These stories are true to the times that they picture, and uplifting. Mary Mapes Dodge, whose name was mentioned in connection with children's poetry, deserves double notice again here, because she has given us some excellent stories for children, and as editor of St. Nicholas, she has inspired hundreds of others to create such stories as Hans Brinker; A Story of Holland, is her best known juvenile tale. To sketch all of the other stories and story writers for children would require a volume; we add only a list of the choicest tales, and give a few suggestions which, we hope, will _ tempt those who study this lesson to get better acquainted with the book companions of their children; we have not named our home authors, yet advise our students to use the Juvenile Instructor stories and those in the Primary magazine. TEN OTHER CHOICE TALKS. 1. Hoosier School Hoy – Edward Eggleston, a tale of schoolboys of imager times in the middle West. The late Supt. B. W. Ashton, of Granite District, used to say that this hook had the greatest influence for good on his pupils of all he ever recommended to them. 2. Moiii the Goat Hoy – Spyri. A model, moral tale from Switzerland. This and its companion hook Heidi, by the same writer, are much enjoyed by hoys and girls of about eight to ten. 3. Helen's Babies – John Habberton. One of the sunniest and truest pictures of childhood ever written. Budge and Toddie are two very real children, who are taken care of by their Uncle Harry, while their mother is away on a visit. Both children and. older people enjoy immensely what happens. 4. Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come – John Fox. me of the best recent stories for boys and girls. A tale of Kentucky during the Civil war. interesting and wholesome. It makes for manliness. 5. Little Colonel Stories – Annie F. Johnston. The Little Colonel is a little girl of the south who wins the heart of her grandfather who has become estranged to his daughter because she married against his will. The Two Little Knights of Old Kentucky and The Giant Scissors are two of the stories that continue to tell the fortunes of the Little Colonel. 6. Old Pipes and the Dryad – Frank R. Stockton. A fancy fid tale, hut sweet and wholesome and charming for children of about eight to ten. 7 Christmas Carol – Charles Dickens. This story, though very imaginative, is wonderfully true and impressive. Tt breathes the spirit of a Christian Christmas. 8. The Perfect Tribute – Mary Shipman Andrews. A historical tale, based on fact, partly fanciful. Tt gives Lincoln's Gettysburg Speech in its setting. 9. The Ugly Duckling – Hans Christian Anderson. A strikingly true tale of fancy, wholesome and beautiful. Children of primary grades enjoy it greatly. 10. Story of My Life – Helen Keller. A really true story of a remarkable girl who has surmounted superhuman difficulties and won an honored place among the world's best women. All of the hooks just named can he readily obtained at the public libraries. The can he purchased for a small amount and they make most interesting reading for any home. We commend these as a good beginning for a closer acquaintance of our mothers with the stories and story-writers of the young. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. About when did authors begin to write stories for the young? What stories, suitable for children were produced before this time? 2. Give a brief sketch of the life of Louisa M. Alcott, naming some of her best stories. Why does she deserve first place among the story writers for the young? 3. Tell briefly of the work of Kate Douglas Wig-gin, of Mary Mapes Dodge. 4. Give a choice story from one of the books by Laura E. Richards. 5. Let five of the class members be appointed to give a two minute report each, on five of the ten choice books named in this article. 6. Discuss this suggestion: Tt is almost as important that mothers know the book companions of their children, as that they know their real companions. 7. What stories created by our home authors have you found excellent for children? What can mothers do best to encourage our writers to create more of such stores reflecting our life and ideals? Note: Tt may be well to write the public librarian to join in this discussion.