[Vol43 | May 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Is for People Eva Willes Wangsgaard 294 Cheerfulness Is Always Right Annie S. W. Gould 297 So You Want to Write a Story! Frances C. Yost 298 My Legacy Margaret S. Fife 340 Repentance Kate Richards 341 Silver Spoons Manila C. Cook 342 FICTION Who Sings the Lullaby Rosa Lee Lloyd 302 The Perfect Gift Mabel Law Atkinson 318 There Is Still Time — Chapter 4 Margery S. Stewart 320 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far 282 Sixty Years Ago 310 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 311 Editorial: The Gift for Mother's Day Marianne C. Sharp 312 Notes to the Field: Program for the November Fast Sunday Evening Meeting 313 A Centenary of Relief Society Out of Print 313 Review Outline for May 1956 Literature Lesson 314 New Serial "Heart's Bounty" to Begin in June 315 Magazine Subscriptions for 1955 Marianne C. Sharp 326 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1955 330 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering 334 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Canadian Mission Leah H. Lewis 316 Mary Ann Hyde Mortenson Makes Wedding Cakes of Intricate Design 317 A Rug in Dutch Butter Mold Design Elizabeth Williamson 339 POETRY The Things in You I See — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 281 Gift of Spring Gene Romolo 289 Song From the Rim of Silence Elsie McKinnon Strachan 301 LHoivded'esn FVoallilaegye EtMhealu d e J a c oRbusboinn 330099 Never in Triteness Iris W. Schow 316 For My Mother Christie Lund Coles]
continued,  "There  will  always  be 
deliveries  to  make  the  day  before 
Mother's  Day,  and  you  could  help 
me  to  pay  for  your  roses  if  you 
would  feel  better  doing  so.  Just 
remember,  my  boy,  and  God  bless 
you." 
Tony's  eyes  were  shining  as  his 
lips  spoke  his  gratitude.  Taking 
his  precious  roses,  he  left  the  shop. 
When  he  came  to  the  little  white 
gate  of  his  home,  he  did  not  stop, 
but  walked  on  by,  and  went  on  and 
on  to  the  outskirts  of  town. 
When  he  reached  his  destination 
and  entered  the  gates,  the  silent 
beauty  of  the  place  made  him  feel 
a  deep  peace.  Just  as  the  rising  sun 
flooded  the  earth  with  light,  he 
placed  his  roses— the  perfect  gift- 
on  his  mother's  grave.

There  Is  Still  Time 
Chapter  4 
Margery  S.  Stewart 
Synopsis:  Elizabeth  Anderson  is  dis- 
turbed by  a  strange  dream  in  which  she 
sees  herself  and  her  friends  walking  on 
crutches.  She  tells  the  dream  to  Brent, 
her  husband,  and  explains  to  him  that 
something  is  lacking  in  their  lives.  Brent, 
however,  is  so  much  interested  in  making 
money,  that  he  does  not  want  to  under- 
stand Elizabeth's  plea.  Grandmother 
Anderson  comes  to  live  with  the  family, 
and,  during  her  illness,  Elizabeth  and  the 
children  begin  to  appreciate  the  blessings 
of  sacrifice  and  service.  Elizabeth  suc- 
ceeds in  persuading  the  children  to  go 
with  her  to  Sunday  School  and  sacrament 
meeting,  and  she  feels  that,  as  a  family, 
they  are  making  progress,  although  she  is 
heartsick  at  Brent's  indifference. 
SOMETIMES  her  friends  came 
with  flowers  and  jelly  and 
murmured  polite  phrases  of 
regret,  but  Karen  Jones,  beautiful 
as  a  camellia,  was  frank  in  her  dis- 
approval. 
"How  you  stand  it,  is  beyond 
me  .  .  .  ."  She  looked  with  wonder 
at  the  lines  and  hollows  in  Eliza- 
beth's face.  "Honestly,  you'll  look 
like  your  own  mother  in  another 
month."  She  touched  her  own 
glowing,  pearl  perfection  with  a 
long,  graceful  sweep  of  painted 
nails.  "Do  you  know  it  took  me 
two  solid  hours  this  morning  of 
massage  and  eye  pads  to  get  rid  of 
the  Jamison's  party.  Honestly,  you 
should  have  seen  my  eyes." 
Elizabeth  looked  gently  at  the 
extraordinary  beauty  of  Karen's 
blue-green  eyes,  her  brilliant  red 
hair.  "I  can't  imagine  you  with  a 
flaw,  Karen,  I  really  can't.  You're 
my  despair,  really.  When  I  get  all 
dressed  up  for  a  party,  I  think  of 
Page  320 
you  and  just  wilt.    I  suppose  most 
of  your  other  friends  do,  too." 
Karen  smoothed  her  wide,  yellow 
skirts.  "Beauty  is  its  own  excuse 
for  being."  She  laughed,  "Wish  I 
could  remember  who  wrote  it, 
someone  is  always  quoting  it  to  me, 
and  they  never  know  either.  But, 
frankly,  Elizabeth,  you've  got  to 
stop  this  Florence  Nightingale  busi- 
ness and  come  out  in  the  sun 
again." 
Elizabeth  passed  fruit  juice  and 
cake.  "I  will.  She's  much,  much 
better."  She  smiled.  "Someone 
told  me  they  were  going  to  ask  you 
to  help  out  on  the  Red  Cross  drive. 
Did  Mary  tell  you?" 
Karen  shook  her  head.  "No,  and 
she  can  save  her  breath.  I've  found 
the  most  marvelous  new  reducing 
salon,  and  they  are  going  to  keep 
me  tied,  simply  tied  there  for  three 
months.  Do  you  know,  Elizabeth, 
I've  gained  three  inches  around  my 
hips." 
Elizabeth  watched  the  dismay 
smooth  away  on  Karen's  forehead. 
It  must  be  fun  to  walk  into  a  place 
looking  like  her  and  have  every  head 
turn.  I  had  a  dream  about  her 
once  ...  let  me  see  ...  .  Oh,  yes, 
that  awful  one  about  the  crutches. 
".  .  .  .  You  haven't  heard  a  word 
I've  said.  I've  been  telling  you  about 
the  luncheon  Mary  is  having.  She 
said  she'd  call  you.  Do  come,  dar- 
ling. It  will  do  you  so  much  good." 
She  was  gone  in  a  flutter  of  skirts 
and  a  fragrance  lingering  and  lav- 
ish.

THERE  IS  STILL  TIME 
321 
From  overhead  came  the  im- 
patient thumping  of  the  cane  by 
Grandma  Anderson's  bed.  Eliza- 
beth ran  to  answer  it. 
But,  at  last,  to  everyone's  delight, 
Grandma  Anderson  was  permitted 
to  be  up  and  around.  She  fluttered 
about  the  house  like  a  winged  bird, 
chirping  constantly.  "Did  you 
know,  Elizabeth,  that  Lin  only 
worked  three  hours  on  the  garden 
yesterday.    You  pay  him  for  five." 
"I  told  him  he  could  leave  early. 
He  was  expecting  a  brother  from 
Tokyo." 
"Hmph.  A  long  way  for  very 
little.  They'd  both  be  much  bet- 
ter off  saving  their  money.  Did 
you  know  Matilda  threw  out  that 
sack  of  crusts  from  your  party?  She 
never  did  put  it  into  a  bread  pud- 
ding like  I  told  her." 
Elizabeth  put  down  her  mending 
and  rubbed  her  forehead.  Her  head 
ached.  Her  mind  ached  from 
scrabbling  a  thousand  times  a  day 
for  excuses,  reasons,  blandishments. 
"Grandma,  why  don't  you  make 
Donna  a  dress?  You're  such  a  good 
seamstress." 
"Dress!  Land  sakes  alive!  That 
young  one  has  more  dresses  than 
she'll  ever  wear  out." 
"Why  don't  you  make  a  quilt, 
then?    One  of  your  specials." 
Grandma  Anderson  considered. 
"Well,  I  might,  not  that  anyone 
around  here  would  appreciate  it." 
pLIZABETH  rose  and  fled.  She 
took  Elaine's  car  and  drove 
aimlessly  toward  town.  It's  my 
nerves,  they  really  took  a  beating  in 
that  long  illness.  It's  the  let  down 
of  a  big  job  done  and  three  women 
trying  to  do  the  work  of  one.  Ma- 
tilda runs  that  house  with  one  hand 
tied  behind  her,  that  leaves  Grand- 
ma Anderson  and  me  to  haggle 
about  the  little  tasks  and  to  pick 
on  everything  the  youngsters  do. 
She  took  a  deep  breath.  Now 
somebody  very  wise  would  make 
this  predicament  profitable  for 
everyone.  But  I'm  not  very  clever. 
I  only  know  I'm  happiest  when  I'm 
doing  a  big  job  .  .  .  like  nursing 
Grandma  Anderson,  or  the  twins 
when  they  had  measles,  or  having  a 
dinner  for  twenty. 
She  stopped  at  the  Farmer's 
Market,  sat  in  the  sun  and  ate 
a  lemon  cream  tart.  It  was  de- 
licious. She  wandered  about  the 
booths,  bought  a  breadboard  from 
Sweden  and  sandals  from  Mexico. 
Still  reluctant  to  turn  homeward 
she  found  a  movie.  The  usher 
waved  her  to  a  place  beside  a  girl 
in  her  early  twenties. 
A  pretty  blonde  girl,  but  sleepy. 
Elizabeth  found  herself  stealing 
worried  glances  at  her  neighbor. 
Suddenly  the  girl's  head  jerked 
up.  She  opened  her  eyes.  She 
looked  at  Elizabeth  and  smiled  in 
embarrassment. 
"We've  been  so  short  of  help  at 
the  hospital  that  I've  been  working 
through  for  a  week.  I'm  bushed. 
But  I  did  want  to  see  this  movie." 
"Are  you  a  nurse?" 
The  girl  nodded.  "Wish  I  were 
five  of  them.  We  could  use  them 
all  on  my  division." 
"Why  the  shortage?" 
The  girl  shrugged.  "New  hos- 
pitals every  week  or  so,  it  seems, 
more  sick  people  than  I've  ever  seen 
before,  and  fewer  people  to  want 
to  do  the  grubby  things  that  nurs- 
ing demands."  She  wriggled  into 
her  jacket,  still  yawning.     "I  guess

322 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY  1956 
I  should  try  to  stay  and  see  it 
through  again,  but  I  just  can't  make 
it." 
Elizabeth  ached  for  her.  She 
knew  from  experience  that  utter 
fatigue  of  body  and  mind  and  the 
stubborn  will  that  persisted  in  driv- 
ing the  aching  bones  to  newer  tasks. 
She  moved  her  knees  to  let  the 
girl  by,  but  the  movie  had  lost  its 
charm.  She  felt  the  drama  on  the 
screen  was  vapid  in  comparison  to 
the  real  life  drama  of  the  weary  girl 
making  her  way  toward  the  exit. 
HTHEY  had  not  even  missed  her. 
Brent  had  been  called  out  of 
town,  Elaine  had  gone  to  a  dinner 
dance  the  Mutual  was  giving,  and 
Grandma  had  taken  the  twins  and 
Donna  to  Primary  and  then  down 
the  corner  to  get  some  ice  cream. 
Matilda  served  a  warmed-over 
dinner.  "It  just  did  you  a  world  of 
good  to  get  out  of  here,  Mrs.  And- 
erson, you  just  ought  to  do  it 
more." 
Elizabeth  pushed  aside  her  din- 
ner and  leaned  her  face  in  her 
palms.    She  was  tired  to  the  bone. 
Matilda  grumbled  as  she  took 
away  the  plate.  "Appetite  like  a 
bird.  Why  don't  you  go  out  and 
play,  Mrs.  Anderson,  play  golf 
again,  or  go  to  some  of  those  parties 
they're  always  invitin'  you  to?" 
Grandma  Anderson  came  home 
with  three  flushed  and  excited  chil- 
dren. Johnny  ran  ahead.  "Did 
you  know  that  Grandma  played 
with  a  real  live  buffalo  calf  when 
she  was  little?" 
Jennie  shrieked  louder.  "She  saw 
a  mountain  lion  once  when  they 
were  camping." 
Elizabeth    looked    at    Grandma 
Anderson.  She  was  radiant,  flushed 
with  responsibility  and  pride.  "Land 
sakes  alive.  These  poor  little  chil- 
dren haven't  been  to  an  ice-cream 
parlor  for  years." 
"We  have  ice  cream  all  the  time 
at  home." 
"Fiddle-dee-dee!  Cold  stuff  in  a 
dish." 
Jennie  jumped  up  and  down. 
"Grandma  says  she  would  take  us 
to  Griffith  Park,  if  you'd  let  us  .  .  . 
on  the  bus."  She  made  it  sound 
like  six  golden  horses  all  aglitter  in 
the  sun. 
Elizabeth  blinked.  Buses  and  ice 
cream  parlors  ...  all  the  beloved 
things  of  her  childhood  were  just 
as  much  of  a  treat  to  her  spoiled 
trio,  and  Grandma  Anderson 
seemed  to  thrive  under  the  admira- 
tion of  her  grandchildren.  She  needs 
a  job  to  do,  the  same  as  I  do,  Eliza- 
beth realized.  Now  how  are  we  go- 
ing to  bring  this  all  about? 
Elizabeth  did  try  golf,  but  the 
game  was  not  enough  to  absorb  her 
energies.  She  tried  other  things, 
charity  drives,  luncheons. 
Karen  Jones  gave  the  most  fab- 
ulous luncheons.  Elizabeth  often 
felt  that  she  was  walking  into  a 
dream,  walking  into  Karen's  living 
room  with  its  white  rugs  and  drap- 
eries, its  apricot  and  green  couches 
and  chairs,  the  exquisite  Chinese 
tapestry  she  had  above  the  beautiful 
fireplace. 
Today,  Karen  was  wearing  pea- 
cock blue.  It  intensified  the  red 
of  her  hair  and  the  blue  of  her  eyes. 
The  luncheon  was  mainly  fruit. 
Karen's  newest  craze  was  diet,  and 
she  went  on  interminably  relaying 
the  latest  taboos  from  the  new  doc- 
tor she  had  found.