his papa’s knee, or “Pats a cake,” to the
fond delight of his admiring mamman, never
wearies nor grows old and tiresome. For
as the years roll on we read between the
lines and discover Mother Goose not only
to have been the children’s poet but a
philosopher and moralist as well. John the
Piper’s son received a just punishment as
all thieves should, and Dame Gill was
taught to minister to her brother’s wounds
in a right womanly manner, and so through
ever little verse is a lesson taught. You
may think I have been trying to sweep
the cobwebs out of my brain this morning
by going back to childhood rhymes, and so
I have, I have been trying to recall the
lines to see if some of them did not tell,
who was Mother Goose. There are two
poems which might describe her. The old
woman in the shoe, and if she had so many
children of course she never had time to
tell us who she was, and then the old
woman who went seventy times as high as
the moon, and if she was the one, we sup-
pose she has not yet come back to explain
about herself, but found so much work for
her broom that she is still sweeping cob-
webs out of the sky. All the same Mother
Goose was a grand old lady, and so long as
there are children in the world her name
will be an honored one, and people will
wonder and ask who was Mother Goose?
We love her because she has done so much
for the children and the mothers, and if
some of our readers can only tell us more
about her we wish they would, and in the
future biographical dictionaries may we
find the life of Mother Goose, but the in-
credulous will say she was a myth, there
never was such a person no more than
there was a William Tell, or a hatchet be-
longing to George Washington. Alas! how in
this day of realism are our idols shattered;
if Mother Goose is a myth who wrote those
nursery rhymes.
	Its a long step from Mother Goose to the
great master of English verse, and one
might well hesitate before bringing them
into the same subject, but in one respect
they are alike, that is in having their iden-
tity doubted, and it is a still longer step
from the cradle to the grave; but doubt is
linking them, and this doubt is a very ugly
creature and is doing much mischief in this
beautiful world of ours. I wish he never
had been born, for he creeps into the cor-
ners of hearts and tries to destroy the faith
he finds there. This faith is his greatest
enemy, for doubt is so wicked that he hates
faith for the good that he has done, and it is
his highest ambition to destroy him.
Doubt is not natural to a child, he is un-
known, but faith is born in the child, it is
his first instinct and his first principle, and
if raised in a atmosphere of faith, if those
in whom he believes, believes in One still
higher, he will continue to be faithful and
neither to doubt nor question, but should
the surrounding atmosphere be one of
doubt and suspicion, the child begins to
lose faith in those he trusted and becomes
a doubter and an unbeliever. Men say there
is no divinity, we cannot see nor feel nor

[column 3]
hear him, our reason does not prove him.
Does your reason disprove them; no, a
thousand times no. The infidel has little
to live for and his own unhappy- state ought
to cause him to keep quiet and not force
his ideas upon those who have a faith, it
can do him no good for believing in noth-
ing, he has nothing to return for that sub-
lime principle which he endeavors to des-
troy. Wonders are accomplished daily by
the principle of faith. It makes men
better one to another, and from childhood
to the grave it is a staff to lean upon. Oh,
why destroy any thing so beautiful, so
sublime—mothers guard against this doubt;
keep him from your homes, for he brings
neither happiness nor joy, but is a menace
and an evil-doer.
