LUNCHEON AT THE RICHELIEU.

	THE invitations were very handsome,
large cards with the seal and motto of the
National Council of Women, the United
States at the top and the names of its officers
just underneath.
	The invitations read, "The Officers of the 
National Council of Women of the United
States desire the pleasure of your company
at a luncheon, given in honor of the
Officers of the International Council of
Women, at half past one o'clock on the
afternoon of Saturday, May, 20th, 1893.
—The Richelieu."
	The envelopes also had the seal and
motto lithographed the same as the card.
It was very fine indeed, quite in keeping
with the Council itself, and the grand re-
ception to be given.
	There were four delegates from Utah
present, and we feel sure they will never
forget the splendor of the rooms, nor the
brilliancy of the entertainment.  There
were a number of distinguished foreigners
in attendance.  A description of the dresses
worn and of these ladies themselves would
be interesting to most of our readers, but
we are not good at that sort of thing, but
can tell you their faces beamed with in-
telligence which made them all appear
radiantly beautiful.  Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, President of the National Council,
was the presiding genius and leading spirit
of the occasion.  She looked like a queen
and her premier, Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery,
was near to assist and execute her behests,
and do honor to the occasion, which was
such an opportune time to manifest apprecia-
tion of the delegates who had come from
other lands.  The parlor where the guests
assembled was like a garden of lillies and
roses, and the beautiful women gathered
there were the real gems of lustre and
loveliness from the various countries
whither they had come.
	It was a scene of beauty and of elegance;
but after a few moments' conversation with
each other the announcement was made
that dinner was served in one of the rooms
above.  The guests mounted one staircase
after another until the banquet hall was
reached, bright with banners and most
fragrant with roses, and the fact is
significant that there were assembled there
the representative women of the highest
and finest civilization of the world.
	The tables were presided over by the
hostesses of the occasion, the central one
having in the chair of honor the dignified
President of the Council, May Wright
Sewall.
	The eight tables were arranged in the
form of a cross and there were something
over a hundred guests present, though the
vacant seats stated the fact that others
had been invited but were for some reason
absent.  The floral decorations were oblong
in form, piled high with American roses
(dark red in color), smilax and ferns.
	The menu on a handsome card was in 
French and the delicacies were elegantly
served.  Conversation at each table was
lively and enjoyable, at least it was where
we were seated; at the head of the table
was Isabella Charles Davis, the Recording
Secretary of the National Council, who
presided graciously and conversed with all
as freely as possible.  The writer was seated


on her right, and next was Mrs. Lydia
Coonley, a very influential woman of
Chicago, who had charge of the Musical
Concert, which closed the Woman’s Con-
gress. At this table were Mr. and Mrs.
Nordquist of Finland, and Fraulein Koethe
Shirmacher, Mrs. Pico Beck Meyer, Frau
Ann Simson.
	After the repast, which lasted a long
time, as eleven courses were served, the
music, which had been played at intervals
far enough away to make a charming
sensation, struck up in lively style, “God
Save the Queen,’’and immediately the ban-
queters rose to their feet and the women of
Great Britain felt they were honored.
Mrs. Sewall rose and in a few graceful
words of welcome congratulated the ladies
and informed them of the presence of her
husband at the banquet, which she said
afforded her unspeakable pleasure. Mrs.
Foster Avery spoke in her modest and
happy style and alluded to the sad fact
that her husband was not there, and both
ladies paid very pleasing compliments to
the foreign delegates and the husbands
who had accompanied the delegates. The
foreign delegates were asked to rise, and
the showing was very good.
	Mrs. Fenwick Miller, of the Illustrated
London News, responded to the call for
England, Madame Isabella Bogelot for
France, Margaret Sullivan as an Irish-
American, Fraulein Koethe Shermacher
for Germany, other countries represented
by foreign delegates were Greece, Finland.
Bavaria, Spain, Sweden, Denmark, Nor-
way and Bohemia. Clara Barton, the
famous Red Cross celebrity, Jennie Lozier,
President of Sorosis, Isabella Charles
Davis, Frances Boshy and Mary F. East-
man, each made brief but pertinent
speeches. Susan B. Anthony was called,
and as she rose from her seat every one
was standing, waving her a salute, she look-
ed over the sea of faces of her friends beam-
ing upon her and in her off-hand way said,
“Sit down, girls!” whereupon they all sat
down.
	After the ladies had so many of them
spoken, Mrs. Sewall called upon the
gentlemen present who had come across
the sea and continent to bring their wives
to the Congress of the world, and each one
spoke a few words of stirring sympathy
and genuine encouragement.
	As a fit closing to this memorable enter-
tainment Mrs. Sewall said she had intended
to have prepared some memento of this 
great occasion that each one could carry
away as a remembrance of the time, but in
the midst of the work found no time to
prepare a suitable gift, she therefore beg-
ged the ladies before leaving the table to
take some of the roses as a simile of
affection in the hearts of the American wo-
men for their sisters in every land, explain-
ing that this rose, the “American Beauty,”
if not so graceful in form or delicate in hue,
as were many roses, had the sweetest breath
of all those that bloom on American soil.
This characteristic gathering of noted wo-
men of the National and International
Council was a  beautiful and appropriate
occasion for cementing the friendship of
women from various countries and from
the two continents.


