[Column 2]
Highness the Infanta of Spain was expected
to arrive at mid-day. At the Palmer
House there seemed to be a great stir, and
people were coming in crowds; around the
outside entrance the conversation was most
amusing—the old colored porter was inces-
santly sweeping the steps and side walk;
the colors of Spain and the flag of our
country were swaying in the breeze, and the
servants seemed prouder than ever,explain-
ing to each other this and that about Spain
and the Infanta. The elevators were
decked too for the occasion and all was
bright and gay as a fine day could be.
	The parlors that had been made ready
days before were decorated with ferns,
palms, pansies, roses and apple blossoms,
and the bright sunshine streamed in upon
the fresh paint and varnish making it seem
more fit for a princess. The three big
archways in the rotunda were hung with
the flags of both nations. The guests of
the hotel and many more who had crowded
in, congregated in the hall leading to the
apartments assigned, and were a formidable
array against the officers who attempted to
clear the passage way; forced from their
position they filled the staircases leading
above, but the cool-headed officers warned
them to vacate lest there should be an
accident, and finally succeeded in crowding
them back to the east end, leaving the way
from the elevators clear for the royal party.
Expectancy was on tiptoe and so were the
crowd inside, standing on chairs, and sofas
and in window seats, and jostling each
other, pushing and elbowing, up and down
to get a better position.
	Outside the cannons were fired, the
bands of music were playing, but those
who were in could not get out, nor even
into their rooms. There they must stay now
until the princess should come. At last the
murmur rose as it were in the air, and
whispers in the crowd—and soon handker-
chiefs were waving all around and the
royal party stepped from the elevator to
the parlor floor, and those of us who were
crowded back to the east end of the hall
saw very little, the writer saw her back,
pretty well but not a glimpse of her face
—she was dressed in some soft grey mater-
al, and wore a small bright red hat, the
ladies were exclaiming one to the other the
moment the parlor door closed, “how
gracious,” and “how sweet,” “how charm-
ing,” “how elegant,” and all sorts of pretty
compliments were paid, but she was none
the wiser, nor doubtless did she care; it
was really quite exciting however, especially
beforehand; some of the women were very
greatly incensed at having to vacate the
seats in the hall, and one could hear the
remark repeated over and over, “when
Frances Cleveland came they didn’t pay
her this honor, and she’s our queen and the
first lady in the land,” and many similar
references were made to distinguished
Americans. One English woman declared
she would not move unless she chose, and
said openly to the officer, ‘‘and supposing
we won’t move back,” he replied coolly,
“then it will be a matter of compulsion.”
She did not relent however, and declared if
he laid his hand on her she would appeal to
the British Consul, she was a guest of the
house. Isabella Bucher Hooker, the grand
old veteran woman, maintained her position
with quiet dignity in one of the easy chairs,
where she could see the whole affair; she
was not disturbed,though she had been told
to move like the rest. Afterwards some of
the ladies insisted Mr. Palmer had done right,

[Column 3]
others said it was a matter of business, and
so the opinions varied. We met Mr. Horne
in the hall just when the excitement was
dying out, had not seen him before since he
was in Utah in 1876; he chatted pleasantly
for a few minutes of the people he met
while in Salt Lake, and the places he visited
there. He looks as young as he did seven-
teen years ago, he seemed very proud of
Mrs. Palmer, and well he may be for she is
a most charming and gracious woman, and
is every inch a queen in grace and dignity,
she has won the hearts of the people by
her admirable tact, executive, management,
and loveliness of character.
	We had been loitering during the morn-
ing expecting to see our dear little niece
Edna arrive, but finding at two p. m. she
had not called, we took the train for the
World’s Fair grounds and in fifteen minutes
more we were at the station, and made our
way in with the crowd that throngs the
way day after day with every train,
Naturally we turn towards the Woman’s
Building, but today determined to see the
German village and other places in the Mid-
way Plaisance. So hurrying on we turned
in at the gate which leads towards the
German village, past Java district and half
a dozen other foreign places; crossing the
drawbridge we enter the archway of a
German castle. On one side is the museum
and at the doorway a characteristic young
German in native costume is calling out in
a deep voice what wonders are to be seen
inside for twenty-five cents. We turned
towards the dining room, fitted up in the
style of a German banqueting hall, the
black bread and strong coffee and many
other delicacies were being served to the
hungry World’s Fair visitors; after lunch-
ing there our next resort was across the
wide thoroughfare to the Panorama of the,
Bernese Alps, which we enjoyed very much
indeed; having so often heard descriptions
of the romantic scenery, we were anxious
to get an idea from the panoramic view; it
was next to being there for one could easily
imagine the reality from the effect of the
painting. The shepherds were tending
their flocks and herds of goats and cows,
and the hotel Manlichen not far off was also
very like what one would suppose it to be.
In the distance the blue waters of Lake
Thun, beyond Lake Thun lies the plains of
Antertaken; the slopes bloom with Alpine
roses and blue gentian, and one fancies
the edelweiss among the snow; the short
grass and fir trees look real, as well as the
rocks and mosses. The loquacious manager
told us that Agassiz ascended the Jungfrau
in 1841, and also Professor Desor both of
Neuchtael in Switzerland, and that it is
more than 12,000 feet high. Lest our good
friends of Switzerland should laugh at our
description we will only add that as we
gazed our fill at the snow-capped mountains
and beautiful vales below, we felt like one
in a foreign country or in dreamland, and
coming out into the open street and look-
ing at the strange faces and wonders all
around, one must be impervious to sight
and sound not to be greatly impressed, you
no sooner emerge from the doorway, than
you see Turks, Arabs, Greeks, Japanese,
and here are the ladies (men too) in Sedan
chairs,being carried about, and the wheeling
chairs trundled along by the boys in their
blue uniform. A little distance away is
another view of Switzerland, “A day in the
Alps," and the, Alpine glow worked by
electricity. Entering a dark room, half
circle like a miniature theatre, one sees just


enough to show the piano and the electric
machinery; in front the dark blue curtain,
the music begins to play, the man with the
electricity also begins his work, the curtain
rises slowly, he touches one button after
another and the scene is enchanting. It
is sunrise in the Alps—the scene changes
again and again, giving all the delightful
lights and shades and finally a tremendous
storm of thunder roaring and lightning
flashing, very realistic—then the storm
clears away, the sunshine lights up again
all the peaks of snow and they glow like
fire in the sunset; twilight comes on apace,
the stars peep out, the moon rises over the
mountain tops, and the queen of night
holds her reverie of enchantment; the cur-
tain goes down, the music ceases, and the
people go out bewildered into the glaring
sunlight of the White City.
	Our next visit was to the Venetian Glass
Works, where we saw the processes of the
glass blowers; a very beautiful sight indeed,
and after watching them for some time,
went through the wareroom to see the
display. One cannot help wishing to buy,
if only a gift for a friend, and some pieces
are only a trifle—but there are so many
beautiful things and those who have only
a scanty supply of the needful—must come
out empty-handed.
	Again we wander on past the inner gate-
way of the Plaisance, and towards the
fountains, and though we pass crowds upon
crowds of people, see not one that we ever
saw before; the artificial lake with its pretty
white swans and flashing gondolas, and
which are always attractive, we pause as we
pass to admire, and then hurry on eager to
see more before nightfall, and there is so
much to see one knows not where to turn.
However this time I turned to see the
French Marine cafe, a picturesque building
just at the water’s edge—all around on
the balconies were the tables (white linen
fluttering in the breeze,) and the music
playing, but above it rang out the German
chimes and we hastened  on towards Ger-
many.
	It is impossible to tell in one letter what
has been seen in a day or part of a day at
the Exposition; but after going to the
German building we hastened to the station
lest we should not return by the World’s
Fair train with a ten cent ticket, for at seven
o’clock these trains stop, and of course we
had seen enough for one day, and not once
the face of a friend after leaving the hotel.
	Reaching the Palmer House, weary and
hungry,we remembered the invitation to
the Central Music Hall, where Mrs. Albert
Barker was to recite, and whom we wished
very much to hear; and so after taking sup-
per and reading all about Eulalie in the
evening papers, wended our way to the
place of amusement. Central Music Hall
is a very handsome building inside, and a
good place to see and hear, we had been
there once before to a Dress Reform meet-
ing; this was more like a full and very
fashionable dress affair, diamonds were
flashing and jewels gleaming all around.
The organ music was the orchestra and it
was excellent. It was the opening night
of a series and Mr. Barr McIntosh, the
manager, was on the program for "A Few
Pointed Remarks,’’and they were certainly
pointed. He also read a letter, he stated
that had just received from the Infanta,
(which was not included in the program)
to show his standing in foreign countries
where he had visited.
	The artists were all particular good,

