S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	THE regular monthly meeting of the
Salt Lake Co. W. S. A. convened in the
13th Ward Assembly Rooms, May 16th,
1893. Vice-President Elizabeth M. Price
in the chair. Opened by singing, “A
Suffrage Song,” prayer by the Chapalin.
Singing, “The Reason Why.” Roll called
and minutes of previous meeting read and
accepted. Vice-President Elizabeth M.
Price said she thought when the hurry and
excitement of the World’s Fair was over
there would be more attend the meetings,
and more interest taken in them. This is
an age of progress, women should educate
themselves in politics, for they must come
to the front.
	Mrs. Mary Silver, Mrs. Mary Bassett and
Vice-President Elizabeth Macfarlane all
spoke upon the importance of attending
suffrage meetings and of improving every
opportunity of becoming posted in regard
to politics. Said women should have an
understanding of law, thought what was
good for men was also good for women.
Mesdames Sarah Phelps, Mary Sawer
Snow, Ann Plazer, Sophia Lang, Mary
Irvine and Mary Morris, made some inter-
esting remarks on suffrage. It was sug-
gested that the ladies take the Woman’s
Column, as there were some good things in
it pertaining to suffrage.
	Meeting stood adjourned until the third
Tuesday in June.	E. W. HYDE, Sec.


JUNE.—The month of roses—that stately
queen of Flora's kingdom. Now the wind
scatters the pink and white petals of the
fruit blossoms through the air, the moun-
tains fairly glow in their deep and livid
colors, the dark green fields ripen into
purple blossoms and the garden paths are
sweet and beautiful with jasamine, wood-
bine and roses.
	Of all the year June is the happy month.
No fear of chilling frosts nor dread of ex-
cessive heat to blight and mar the beauty
of the earth. The child, the youth, the
man all revel in its sweetness and its glory.
With what delight the children hail the
closing days of school, and after the worked
for closing exercises have passed, without
thought of care enjoy to the utmost the
field day. The sweet girl graduate dons
her fresh white gown and is showered with
roses and congratulations. The weary
professors lay aside the text books and bid
farewell for a season to the school room to
take a vacation tour in search of new scenes
and new subjects for the following year.
	It was a happy thought that the first of
this month should be chosen for Primary
Day, for when nature smiles so brightly the
children smile as well.
	THE stand the Republican League took
on the Woman Suffrage question must be
very gratifying to the women of the country,
especially so to the women of the Repub-
lican Party, 375 votes in favor and 185
against. The women interested in suffrage
will certainly fully appreciate the noble
efforts of Mr. Blackwell in their behalf.
	BECAUSE of the sojourn of Mrs. Wells
in Chicago the story, “In Rural England, ”
has had to be omitted from the last two
numbers of the EXPONENT; but we trust
the very interesting and entertaining news
concerning doings and sights in Chicago
will suffice for the present and by the next
number, if possible, the thread of the story
will be taken up and continue a uninter-
ruptedly to the finish.


