[Column 2]
material, and the people have been very
generous in their response to her appeal for
contributions. She has collected dress
silk, pongee, lace, twist, reeled silk and
cocoons. Some of the dress material is
very beautiful, though made upon a hand
loom, the same that is used for weaving
rag carpet.
	No attempt will be made to obtain a prize
on manufactured goods, but it is believed
that Utah silk is of a very superior quality,
and if a prize can be obtained for our raw
material it will give a great impulse to the
industry.
	A very brief account of the silk industry
in other countries will help to show what
our Utah industry may become. The pro-
cess of rearing the silk worm, reeling the
thread and making it into cloth was dis-
covered in China 2,600 B. C.
	The knowledge of the art spread through
eastern Asia, before the Christian era. In
the year 555 A. D. two Nubian monks
brought silk worm eggs to Constantinople
and the Emperor Justinian established the
industry there. Sericulture spread rapidly
through Europe and became one of its chief
industries. In France at the present time
silk is manufactured to the value of one
hundred and twenty million francs annually
and from 800,000 to 1,000,000 operatives
are employed.
	Silk culture was introduced into America
in 1522 by Cortez. Georgia was founded
as a silk colony. John I. endeavored to
force Virginia to raise silk but they pre-
ferred to produce tobacco. Many of the
colonies made successful attempts at silk
culture, but during the revolution it was
entirely suspended. From 1825 to 1844
the interest revived and silk culture might
have become well established if it had not
been for the schemes of some jealous men.
The price of mulberry cuttings ran ’from
$3 a hundred up to $300 and even $500.
Many persons lost their entire fortunes.
	It was not long after this revival of inter-
est in sericulture that the Latter-day Saints
came to this valley. Brigham Young quickly
perceived how well adapted this climate
was to silk culture. He mentioned the fact
when fixing the site for the temple, and in
his first sermon in the valley spoke of
sericulture as one of the industries which
should make this people prosperous. He
sent to France for mulberry seed which he
had planted in his own garden, and person-
ally superintended the work. He gave
away cuttings to all who would take them.
Later on he sent to France for silk worm
eggs, distributing eggs and leaves to all
who cared to experiment with them.
About 1865 he built a cocoonery at Forest
Dale and placed a competent person in
charge. Soon after this, a systematic at-
tempt was made to introduce the industry
throughout the territory. Mrs. Zina D.
Young went from ward to ward explaining
the method of caring for the worms and
urging the importance of the industry.
	A general interest was soon awakened
and many trees were planted. When the
people were not able to build a cocoonery
they made a cocoonery of their houses for
the required six weeks in the spring,
literally turning themselves out of doors.
In 1876 the Deseret Silk association was
formed. An exhibit of beautifully reeled
silk was made at the Centennial which re-
ceived a diploma. At the Territorial fair
in 1877 there were exhibited numerous silk
fabrics—handkerchiefs, lace, stockings,

[Column 3]
artificial flower work, and dress silks of
various kinds.
	Soon after the Legislature appropriated
fifteen hundred dollars to encourage the in-
dustry. This sum was too small to equip
an adequate manufacturing plant and an
effort was made to obtain some capital by
forming the Utah Silk association. They
invested about seven thousand dollars .and
did a good business for a time. Utah county
still has a flourishing silk association and
produce some good material.
	Silk is an indispensible article of com-
merce. The demand for it is growing all
the time. If Utah could produce more of
the necessary raw material it would greatly
add to our prosperity.
	At the close of the talk there was ex-
hibited the sage green silk in the sage de-
sign by Mrs. Dallin: threads from the
material of the Utah curtain, spun silk, silk
from perforated cocoons, Utah and Japanese
cocoons and a fine piece of Utah silk which
had been in use constantly for fifteen years.”
—S. L. Herald.


