[Column 2]
those who sit in darkness, that they may
see how good a thing it is to dwell together
for a little season, for a jubilee of welcome
and of greetings to those who have come 
from afar, and to the stranger within the
gates of the nation that promises protection
and freedom to all, of whatever creed or
faith.
	Perhaps the most popular woman of the 
Congress, if we except Mrs. Palmer, was
Susan B. Anthony; everywhere she was
followed by immense crowds eager and
anxious to hear her speak, no matter what
the subject.
	Really the woman suffrage question was 
one of the most popular themes of dis-
cussion presented, and at the department
meeting of the suffrage organization the 
hall was crowded to suffocation, and a 
policeman had to be called to clear the way
for Miss Anthony, and as soon as she left
the meeting the crowd followed her in their
enthusiasm through the corridors into the 
main hall, where they gradually subsided
into a normal condition.
	The entire Woman’s Congress has been
such an unparalleled success, that it is likely 
to detract from those which immediately
follow it. For instance, the Press Congress
which commenced on Monday had much 
less enthusiasm and the numbers are
insignificant as compared with it, and this 
is the close of the second day.	The World’s Fair proper was scarcely
thought of while the Congress of Represen-
tative Women was in session, except as an
educating factor, a great object lesson, and 
its power of utility. Certainly it was the 
Columbian Exposition that made the Con-
gress of Women possible at this present
date—and also that rendered it more popu-
lar to men as well as women, but it was in 
a very great measure due to the earnestness,
activity, force and persistent determination,
fore-thought and concentrated, vigorous ex-
ecutive work of the chairman and secretary
of the Woman’s Branch of the Auxiliary
that the Congress attained to the excellence
acknowledged by all who visited it and
especially those who took part, for they 
know whereof they speak. The President,
Mrs. Palmer, and the Vice-President, Mrs. 
Hamotin, were both deeply interested in
the Congress; but in consequence of their
official positions and the duties pertaining 
thereto could not devote the time Mrs. 
Sewall and Mrs. Avery gave to the details
of the matter. The Congress has now 
passed into history and will be recorded in the 
archives of the country as one of the greatest
events of modern times. All honor to those 
who planned and executed such a Memorial
Congress for the women of the world. 
Their names will not only be emblazoned
upon the history of America, but en-
graven upon the hearts of the people of 
our own and other nations, as heroines
worthy the magnificent cause of elevating
woman and preparing the way for all wo-
men to advance like an army well equipped
to stand for a mighty cause dearer than 
life, their homes and the solidarity of hu-
man interests.
	The receptions tendered to the ladies of
the Congress during the week added much
to its pleasure, and gave the women op-
portunities of introductions and social 
converse they would not otherwise have
enjoyed.
	The West End Club issued hundreds of 
invitations for a reception on Tuesday, May
17, at the Illinois Club House, Ashland

[Column 3]
Boulevard. The house was handsomely
decorated and illuminated, a band of music
playing behind a wall of flowers and ferns,
at the farther end of the reception hall;
several rooms were crowded beside the large
main hall with beauty, gaiety, sprightli-
ness, and brilliancy, as well as fine figures
and elegant costumes. In fact the whole 
affair baffles all description; one not ac-
customed to scenes of this kind could only 
gaze silently on the beautiful picture and
admire the ease and dignity which 
characterized the ladies who took charge of 
the arrangements. Refreshments were 
served to all in a most artistic way, and
though the ladies informed us the Club 
was new, the members must have been long
accustomed to the etiquette of formal re-
ceptions. The floral decorations added
greatly to the delight of the guests.
	Wednesday afternoon was the reception 
of the Illinois Press Association, and 
Thursday the Chicago Woman's Club, 
both of them grand and enjoyable; and 
Friday Mrs. Potter Palmer gave a reception 
at the Woman’s Building. Band of music,
speeches, and violin solo by a young lady;
many distinguished women were introduced
to the audience from the platform.
	After the exercises the ladies were free to 
visit and converse, and in the adjoining 
room tea from Ceylon was served by real
Ceylonese girls in their native dress; which
was quite a picture in itself.
	There were a large number of Utah wo-
men there, among whom we noticed Mrs.
Amelia F. Young, Mrs. Carlie Y. Cannon 
and her daughter, Carroll; Mrs. Maria Y.
Dougal, Miss Mary Teasdel, Miss Josephine
Spencer, Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson and her 
daughter, Rubie; Mrs. Josephine West, and 
Emily S. Richards, President of the Board
of Lady Managers for Utah; and Miss May 
Preston, the Secretary. There were also 
the delegates to the Congress, Mrs. Zina D. 
H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. 
Elmina S. Taylor and her daughter Miss 
Mae Taylor, Mrs. Martha H. Tingey, Dr.
M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. Zina Y. Card,
and perhaps one or two more whose names
we do not now recall. It was a charming 
afternoon and was one of those happy ex-
pressions of generous sympathy and inter-
est in the work of the Woman’s Congress
that Mrs. Palmer has been in the habit of
extending to all the public enterprises;
manifesting her delicate appreciation of the 
good work women are doing for the cause 
of human progress.
	Mrs. Palmer and Mrs. Henrotin received 
together, many hundreds being introduced 
meantime, and having the very great
pleasure of a word from this truly gracious
and queenly woman who has shown her-
self so abundantly competent to fill the 
arduous duties assigned her by the Con-
gress of the United States. Mrs. Salisbury, 
one of the Vice-Presidents, as also Lady
Commissioner for Utah, was present and 
showed us with pardonable pride the 
elegant silk curtains made in Utah of
native silk for the Woman’s building; also
the piano scarf, the broadcloth curtains, etc.
all displayed on this memorable occasion.
Mrs. Palmer, Mrs. Henrotin and Mrs. 
Salisbury are a trio of attractive, brilliant 
and fascinating women; unsurpassed in 
their attainments for the place of honor
assigned to them, and are a credit to the 
country they so ably represent.
	This article is already too long and yet it
seems nothing has been told. The
magnificence, the extreme elegance of


these entertainments, is beyond language
to convey to those who have not seen it for
themselves. At another time we will tell
our readers of the luncheon given by Mrs.
Sewall at the Richelieu, on Saturday 20th,
and of Mrs. Pa mer’s reception at her own
house on Monday 21st, which the Utah
ladies had the pleasure of attending.


