[column 2]
sixth, a dish of seafowl. Seventh, a dish
of fresh fish and eels. Eighth, an apple-
pie. Ninth, a course of cranberry tarts and
cheese made in the old colony.”
	In imitation of their ancestors all luxury
and extravagance were avoided, everything
being served in the simplest manner.
	Another celebration that must be men-
tioned was the 200th anniversary. After a
speech by Daniel Webster of two hours
duration and other ceremonials, a pro-
cession was formed,and taking their way to
the banquet hall sat down to a table spread
with all the luxuries the country afforded,
but on each plate was placed five grains of 
corn; this excited feelings of amusement,
interest and emotion in different individuals,
but when it was understood that this was in
commemoration of that time in the history
of the pilgrims when there was only a pint
of corn for the whole colony and when it
was divided gave just five grains to each;
the five grains at the banquet were eaten
with a greater relish than any of the
dainties, or were carefully treasured as
mementoes. 
	The celebrated rock must be mentioned,
though briefly. In revolutionary times to
inspire still more patriotism it was raised
from its place and drawn by forty oxen,
followed to the Liberty Pole Square.
	In raising it, the rock was broken and
this was looked upon as a signification of
the division of the British Empire.
	In 1834, July 4th, it was moved again
and placed in front of Pilgrim Hall where
in now remains protected by a noble
structure, which serves the double purpose
of security to the rock and a monument to
the pilgrims and bears the names of the
forty-one who signed the compact on board
the Mayflower.
	In looking back at the character of the
pilgrims from this distance, their religion
and lives appear somewhat sombre, some
have called them vindictive, but this is
rather unjust. They certainly did many
things that seem unjust and harsh, such as
their persecution of the Quakers, selling
Indians into slavery, beheading and
quartering others, etc. but we must judge
them from their standpoint and from the
public opinion of their day, and not from 
ours of greater freedom and liberality of
thought. 
	Their lives have furnished themes for
romance and song.
	Where can we find a sweeter story of
simplicity and truth than that of Priscilli,
the Puritan maiden, whom Longfellow has
immortalized. Another sweet sad story of
Puritan sternness is that of Hester Prynne
in Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Letter.”
	This illustrates their severe, strict justice,
seemingly robbed of that sweet virtue
charity, wherein the young girl Hester for
her one error, bitterly repented as it was
and atoned for by a whole lifetime of suf-
fering and devotion, was yet condemned to
wear on her breast the badge of her shame
the scarlet letter, all her life and with her
child live apart from the self-righteous
community.
	We cannot better close this subject than
by quoting the fine words of Sprague:

	“O never may they rest unsung,
	While Liberty can find a tongue,
	Divine gratitude a wreath for them,
	More deathless than the diadem,
	Who to life's noblest end,
	Gave up life's noblest powers,
	And bade the legacy descend
	Down, down to us and ours.”


