ONLY A GLANCE.

	THE Columbian Exposition is certainly
the greatest event in the largest sense of
the word that has been in any age of the
world of which we have any knowledge,
so far as learning, invention and practical
utility for the higher development of the
arts and sciences are concerned.
	To attempt any adequate description of
this mammoth, this gigantic human under-
taking would require a superhuman effort
almost, at any rate a tremendous power of
physical nerve force and mental calibre.
One may go day after day in the same
building (either of the large ones) and yet
feel he has not seen the half there is to be
seen.  Writing up the World's Fair is be-
ing done on a very infinitesimal scale.  It is
like throwing a pebble into the water, and
is a most unsatisfactory work; and yet so
many attempt it, the daily papers here have
the best chance of course, and yet large as
they are, and bright as the men and women
are who are upon the editorial and repor-
torial staffs of these ponderous dailies,
even they do not pretend to write up and
keep pace with what is going on in all
departments.
	Many things are unfinished, and men and
women are constantly doing and making
improvements, and the more they plan, and
the more they do, the more complicated the
work of summing it up becomes.  Then
there is the constant current of people com-
ing and going.  Who can expect to tell of
even the noted people, who are so modest
as not to force themselves upon public notice
to be mentioned in the daily press.
	What one can say is only like a side
scene, and barely a suggestion of the great,
actual, intense fact that has begun to change
the whole tenor of life in the great City of
Chicago.  It comes over one every now and
then like a magnificent dream of splendor
and enchantment, and it is hard to believe
even in the midst of it, that it is a deep
and far-reaching reality, permeating the
entire present, and reaching out to the great
unknown, and significant future.  We
have many of us been saying that life was
full of promise, the world was opening out
into broader fields and a higher expanse of
intellectual endowment, of civilization and
enlightenment, and yet with all the pro-
phetic intuition of the inspirational soul,
none of us  ever imagined in our fondest
dreams of any thing so lofty, so intensely
educational, so mighty in its tendencies and
benefits, as this Exposition now seems to
have become.  All the sciences of all the
ages seem to have culminated in this one
period of time, and the wheels of progress
still roll onward "conquering and to
conquer."
	A goodly number of our Utah people,
bright  men and women, have been visiting
the Exposition grounds day after day; for 
our own part, we have been wholly occupied
for two weeks with congresses and the
consequent duties and obligations, social and
otherwise the congresses involved.
	Only now for the last day or two have

