A LESSON.

	If standing on a lofty pinnacle one could
look down upon this great sea of human
life, how many lessons of a different
nature one might learn, how many do we
then learn as we mix up with, and struggle
for existence in this great tumultuous sea.
	A friend once taught me a lesson which I 
hope never to forget.
	One summer afternoon I was visiting my
friend Mrs. H, and after adjourning to her
neat cosy sitting-room to enjoy a quiet time
by ourselves, as we termed it, she soon be-
came busily employed with a beautiful
piece of fancy work, while I seated myself
on a low ottoman at the opposite side of
the room, and began passing away my
time by poring over the leaves of a photo- 
graph album.
	We had been silent for some time, each
one seemingly busy with her own thoughts. 
Now and then my glance would leave the
book and fall on my friend, and a pleasing
picture she made, sitting at a open window,
dressed in sweet negligee, well becoming
such a sultry day. She was a little above
the medium height, and possessed a full
rounded form; on this particular day she
wore a loose, cream-colored house dress of
some fine material, a cluster of dark red
roses was pinned on her bosom, her jet
black hair, naturally wavy, was tastily coiled
low in the neck. She was of English
birth, indeed one might easily imagine her
a descendant of some titled family.
	After one of these lingering looks, I again
began turning over the leaves until I came
to the picture of a man I had noticed before,
and whom I had met at my friend's house
several times.
	Suddenly I broke the silence by asking,
“how is it, Mrs. H, that you who are so
entirely of a different nature, are so closely
bound to this family by the ties of friend-
ship? I am told by good authority that he
cannot even write his own name, while his
wife is a perfect oddity, and really have you
noticed how their little daughter so idolizes
you that she mimics almost every move
made by you, until it becomes amusing?"
Mrs. H. made no remark, nor even looked
up until I had finished my outburst of talk,
then with heightened color, and with such
a look of reproof that I shall never forget,

		(Continued on page 175.)


(﻿Continued from page 171.)

she replied: “As uncouth and illiterate he
may appear to you, to me he is a noble
man. Himself and wife have proven to
me many times, in my hours of adversity
and trouble, that they are possessed of
warm, true hearts and noble impulses, both
of them will always be numbered among
the foremost of my circle of friends.
You, my dear friend, have yet to learn, “that
a friend in need is a friend indeed."
	Then with much enthusiasm she por-
trayed to me many touching incidents of
faithfulness, and acts of true friendship too
sacred to make bare to the public gaze, and
as I looked upon her, her face seemed far
more beautiful as it so plainly portrayed the
noble soul within.
	The lesson sank deep into my heart, and
I more fully realized that the roughest looking
diamonds are often the best, I begged my
friend’s pardon, and after becoming more fully
acquainted with the family, became one of
their warmest friends, and felt the truth of
the words, “All that glitters is not gold."
	A few years later I was again visiting at
my friend’s house in a different part of the
country, and under much altered circum-
stances. Again I was turning over the
leaves of her album, suddenly I came to
the photo of a young and beautiful girl,
whose well poised head, and delicate fea-
tures betokened culture and refinement.
To my question, “who is she?” Mrs. H—
smilingly replied, “Why don’t you recollect
the little mimmic?”’ With much surprise I
again gazed upon the photo what a
wonderful change I mentally exclaimed,
and that interview of so long ago came
vividly to mind.
	This then was the way she had returned
their great kindness in her hour of need.
Well knowing her influence, she had used
it in every delicate way possible, so that the
little mimic had grown into a beautiful and
accomplished young lady, fit to adorn any
society.
	What a grand lesson of faith and true
friendship. To me my friend seemed more
beautiful than ever, here indeed was one of
nature's own noble women, and since then,
as I have seen her in anguish and sorrow,
joy and sunshine, as her soul shone forth
in all its grandeur, steadily avoiding all the
quick sands of life that might in any way
degrade her pure womanhood, I have felt
to thank God that we have such noble
women in our midst, those that are worthy
of emulation. The hour of midnight is upon
me. Peace be with you all.—Written for
the U. W. P. Club by	IDA HAAG.


