Of Interest to Women Some HELPFUL THINGS To KNOW Lalene H. Hart In the Kitchen: When combining the ingredients for the filling of lemon pie, do not add the lemon juice until after the corn-starch or flour has been thoroughly cooked. The acid in the lemon juice when combined with starch and heated forms maltose, a kind of sugar, and will not thicken. The same chemical change takes place when using fresh pineapple with gelatine in making Bavarian creams. Remove dried fruits from their packages: wash, dry slowly in the oven, then place in a glass jar for use. This is a time-saver when currants or raisins are needed in a hurry. Use dried cherries in place of raisins in various ways. You will like the substitute for an occasional change. When a can of pimentos is open but not entirely used, put the remainder in a glass jar and cover with cooking oil. The oil, after all the pimentoes are used, can be utilized in making mayonnaise dressing. The flavor is delicious and the color is attractive. To keep salad dressing in jelly jars, pour melted paraffin on the inside of the cover. This prevents rust or discoloration of the tin lids and preserves the dressing. Put lemons in a fruit jar'as soon as they are purchased and screw the top on tightly. They will not dry and can be kept several weeks.,; - Try greasing the cup in which molasses is measured; there will be no waste and every drop will run out readily. When preparing grape-fruit for cocktail or salad, the usual method of removing the bitter white membrane is somewhat tedious. Cover the grape-fruit with boiling water and let stand a few minutes. Remove and put into cold water quickly. When cool, it may be peeled easily. Chill before using. Oranges may be treated in the same way. Roll toasted corn-flakes and use in the place of flour or cracker crumbs to roll meat or croquettes in before frying. Cream that is too thin to whip can be made to do so by adding the unbeaten white of an egg before starting to whip. OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 75 When buying shelled nuts, look them, over carefully, heat slowly and thoroughly in the oven, watch closely to prevent burning, cool and put in an air tight can. They will keep fresh a long time and are ready for use when needed. Marshmallows placed thickly on the top of a custard or squash pie, when put in the oven will toast to a delicious brown and will add greatly to the flavor and appearance of the pie. Add a chopped carrot to dried lima beans while cooking; the flavor will be much improved. Bits of lemon peel scattered among the cookies in the jar will add a fine flavor to them. Before putting raisins or other sticky food through the food chopper, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice into the chopper and the food will not stick. The lime deposited in the tea-kettle may be removed by boiling a pint of vinegar in it. The acid in the vinegar dissolves the lime which is then easily removed. Wash and rinse the kettle thoroughly before using. In the Sick-Room: In most homes where the sick have to be cared for, the regular hospital bed can not be provided. The one who is nursing uses a great deal of energy by working over a low bed. This can be avoided if cone shaped blocks, twelve to eighteen inches high, are placed under each leg of the bed. A hole six inches deep should be bored in the end of the block, just large enough in diameter to receive, easily, the leg of the bed. A handy man can make these and comfort is given to the patient as well as to the nurse. A. Bathing: cap makes an excellent ice bag in an emergency. Close the opening with a rubber band, dust with talcum powder after drying and it may be used many times. In an emergency, an ordinary fruit jar or glass bottle, filled with hot water and covered with a piece of flannel, can be used in place of a hot water bottle. It retains the heat a long time. When the hot water bottle leaks, it may be filled with hot sand or salt and still serve its purpose. When it becomes too old to be thus used, cut in sections and use as pads for keeping pillows clean. The pads may also be used upon which to place medicine bottles. To reduce the temperature of the room quickly, hang wet sheets about and evaporate the water with an electric fan. When men's collars become so frayed that they can not be worn, they make excellent small bandages. Wash collars to remove all starch. When ripped apart, each collar contains several thicknesses of good quality linen. Sterilize them by heating in the oven on a clean plate, put into a small sterilized jar and screw on the lid. They are then ready for an emergency. In the Laundry: The best and finest table linen is easier to iron if wrung from the rinsing jwater by hand. The wringer presses creases into it which are difficult to iron out. The rubber rollers on the wringer can be easily cleaned with kerosene. Be sure to wash thoroughly after cleaning because kerosene destroys rubber. Always remove the pressure on the rollers of the wringer: after using it, and the roller will last twice as long. In cold weather if you wet a cloth in strong salt water, and wipe the clothes line, the clothes will not freeze to it. Also dip clothes pins in salt water and they will be more easily removed. To wash soiled clothes-pins put into a large pan or boiler of soapy water and let soak until water is cold enough to put the hand in; wash, rinse and dry. If this is done when pins are new, they will not split as easily and will last much longer. A bushel basket lined with white oil cloth is an excellent substitute for, or aid to, a clothes basket. It is easier handled and costs much less: Mend the hole in your zink or tin tub by cutting the old rahe bers from fruit jars into very small pieces, melting them and aplying to the hole with a small stick. After washing lingerie or narrow ribbons of any description wind them around a jar full of hot water. They will dry smoothly so that ironing is unnecessary. A college girl's "stunt" of washing handkerchiefs is somewhat similar. After washing and rinsing spread perfectly smooth on a mirror or window glass. Be sure the glass is clean. This may be used in an emergency. Often after iodine has been used for cuts or sores the clothes or towels are stained with it. To remove the stains, make a thin paste of starch and water; place the stained articles in it, soak over night and wash with soap and water. OF INTEREST TO WOMEN 77 Fold a piece of old carpet or rug several times and stand on it while ironing. You will be surprised how it rests the feet and limbs. In Cleaning: To clean brass, use vinegar and salt. Apply with a soft cloth and polish. Or use a saturated solution of oxalic acid. Weta cloth in this solution and apply to the article to be cleaned. Rub well and polish with a dry cloth. One application usually removes all discoloration. Care must be taken, however, for oxalic acid is poisonous. Common vaseline may be used for cleaning brass electrical fixtures. Apply with a piece of clean cotton cloth and polish with an old soft flannel.. Brooms will last much longer if, once a week, they are dipped in hot soapy water. Shake all the water out, press into shape and hang it up by the handle to dry. Be careful not to wet the broom where it is tied or sewed. These, with other cleaning utensils, will give longer service and retain their shape better if hung up by the handle. Small screw-eyes may be purchased at any hardware store to screw in the ends of the handles. Never throw a broom, straw-end down, in a corner behind the door if you intend to use it for sweeping. After using an oiled mop, instead of shaking the dust out of it, use an old whisk broom to brush the mop carefully. It not only cleans but it makes it fluffy and keeps it from matting. Mix thoroughly a pint of kerosene, one third ounce oil of paraffin, dampen cheese cloth or any soft cloth (cotton stockings are good); hang in the air a little while, roll, place in a can or tight box with cover. This amount will dampen about six yards of material, which will make twelve dust cloths. Another method of making a dustless duster is to add one tablespoon of linseed oil and turpentine to one quart of boiling water. Wet the cloth in the solution and dry, put in box as above. Use sand paper and oil to polish your kitchen stove and see how bright and shiny it will be. If stove polish is preferred use vinegar instead of water.. The polish will be much brighter. Occasionally, when dusting,: wipe the windows with clean paper (tissue is best, newspaper may be used ) and so keep the dust and dirt from accumulating and minimize the number of real window washings. Equal parts of kerosene and water is good for cleaning windows; polish with soft paper. Another quick way is to use a good-sized chamois and hot water. Dry the window with the same wet chamois. It leaves no lint on the window and dispenses with a lot of soiled cloths. How Close Are You to Your Daughter?