[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. November 2, 1915. Work and Business. LESSON IL November 9. Theology and Testimony. KEEPING THE SABBATH DAY HOLY. The Lord has left no doubt in the testimony and teachings of former and latter-day prophets concerning the method and manner of observing the Sabbath day. Moses tells us in the first book of the Pentateuch that when the Lord had spent six days in framing and shaping the world, he rested from His labors on the seventh day, and hallowed it. The same writer tells us in the second book that of the ten vital laws which were written on the tables of stone, the fourth long and particular law concerned itself with the keeping of the Sabbath day. From the days of Adam, the covenant people were distinguished by their reverence for the Sabbath day. The sons of Japhet and Ham, regardless as they were of many other principles of the Gospel, kept this law intact, down the ages from Nimrod to Nebuchadnezzar. Nearly all of the ancient prophets deal more or less directly with the necessity of keeping, and the heinousness of breaking, this law. Isaiah devotes nearly a chapter to this, and uses these deeply significant words to sum up the whole matter: "If thou turn away thy foot from the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy of the Lord, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words. "Then shalt thou delight thyself in the Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it." The Lord did not leave our latter-day prophet in ignorance on the matter. We are told in the Doctrine and Covenants: "But remember that on this the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or. in other words, that thy joy may be full. "Verily, this is fasting and prayer; or in other words, rejoicing and prayer." As to technical points in the carrying out of these instructions, such as pleasure-riding, theater-going, concert-giving, feasting with friends, and social diversions of all kinds with attendant labors, no sane and reasonable woman can fail to rightly interpret these sayings of the prophets. Adults must square their lawbreaking with their own conscience but the mothers and grandmothers who belong to this Society should see to it that their own examples do not become a stumbling block to the youth of Israel. Many trifling acts may not be particularly wrong in themselves, but if the doing of certain things are inexpedient because of the example and inference given to weaker minds. Saints will refrain from even the appearance of evil. QUESTIONS. What is the Sabbath day? When and why was it instituted? What things do you consider right to do on that day? What might be done on week days that would be unlawful on the Sabbath? When do the Jews observe the Sabbath? Why do we observe the first day of the week as the Sabbath? Read the 1. 2, 3 verses of the second chapter of Genesis. Read the Fourth Commandment. Read the fifty-eighth chapter of Isaiah. Read the fifty-ninth section of the Doctrine and Covenants.