[Vol2 | October 1915 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Place of Music in Ward and Stake Relief Society Lucy May]
The Place of Music in Ward and Stake Relief Society. Lucy May Green. Chorister, Granite Stake. "Oh how we love to sing" the songs Of Zion's blest abode! They cause our hearts to burn with joy And help us on the road. There's comfort in their cheering words That warms the strangest heart. No other songs we hear today Can such delight impart." — R. B. Baird. The beautiful thought suggested by this verse should enter the spirit of every Relief Society member, and we should all use our influence and the talents with which we are blessed, to raise the standard of singing and music in our Relief Society gatherings. How can this be accomplished? First. — every Ward Society should have a chorister and an organist. These sisters should be chosen, not for musical ability alone, but musicians should be chosen who have bright, sunny natures, tact, punctuality and faithfulness. The chorister and organist should be prompt and diligent in attendance at meetings, and should understand how to read, play, and sing the songs of Zion. A good chorister is one who not only gives lip service, but whose heart is in the work and whose songs of the heart are acceptable unto Him who has said, — "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing on their heads." Second. — Relief Society choirs should be organized wherever it is possible — not to do all the singing, but to lead the singing in the Relief Society meetings. All should join in the song of praise to our Father. And those who are not blessed with a voice for singing, should follow the words and sing with their hearts that they too may merit the promised blessings. The Relief Society choir should meet regularly for practice; and at times, it would be well for the president to allow the chorister a half hour in the general meeting to practice with the society, that new hymns and songs may be learned. There are a number of ways to keep up interest in Ward Re
 lief Society choir work, and I would suggest a few: Use your Relief Society choir to furnish music at your ward Relief Society conferences, annuals and on Anniversary Day — 17th day of March. If the bishop gives a Sunday meeting to your organization, call on your choir to sing. Visit the homes of the aged and bedridden Saints, sing to them and bring sunshine into their lonely lives. Visit hospitals or infirmaries and render a suitable program. "Spend a day together in the House of the Lord." At funerals, often the ward choir cannot attend in full, as the men are busy on the farm or in the store or office. Here is a good field for a well-balanced Relief Society choir. I recall several funerals where the Relief Society choir has rendered beautiful and appropriate music. Have an occasional social with a program of national songs. We are a cosmopolitan people, and enjoy hearing and singing the "old country" tunes. At a recent choir social, we listened with equal pleasure to "Our mountain home so dear," "Annie Laurie," "Ye banks and braes," and a group of Swiss and German melodies. These are a few suggestions; but all have been tried out and found of use in the Granite stake. Third, — Stake choirs — each stake should be proud to own a stake Relief Society choir, to furnish music for the monthly officers' meetings, conferences, and conventions. Its membership should consist of all local choristers and choir members, and others who care to belong. Its field of labor is somewhat broader, but it can work along the same lines as the ward Relief Society choir. Fourth, — to have successful music in our Society, both stake and ward the songs chosen should be appropriate to the work of the day, and the theme of the meeting. Here is where the good judgment and tact of the chorister should be used, for a song can give the keynote of a meeting, or it can change the tone and almost spoil the spirit of the gathering. On one occasion, at a meeting held on the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet and his brother, when the hearts of those present were full of sad memories and of love for the departed, instead of singing, "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah," or the familiar song of praise and prayer, "We thank thee, O God, for a Prophet," a thoughtless chorister announced, and the choir sang, — "Don't kill the little birds!" There is a popular idea that exists in the minds of the brethren, that the favorite song of the sisters is "Come all ye sons of Zion." While we do not sing this as often as of yore, in many of our societies, the choice of songs is limited to a very few old, familiar tunes. One reason for this, is that very few have their own books, and so many think that their singing days are over. The Lord says, "Sing and rejoice ye daughters of Zion." PLACE OF MUSIC IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 445 Let us wake up musically, and sing with spirit and understanding. "Let everything that hath breath, praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord." What shall we sing? From the days of 1830, when Emma Smith was commanded by the Lord to make a selection of sacred hymns, "to be used in my Church," up to the present day, we have had many collections of hymns and sacred songs, and all of them are good. But after ten years' experience in Relief Society choir work, I find no book better for Relief Society meetings than the new Sunday School Song Book. In it there are songs suitable for all occasions, and a large number of them express the real spirit and genius of our work. Choristers can select their lists. I suggest that hymns written by our gifted women be used — hymns written by Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, L. L. G. Richards, Emily H. Woodmansee, Susa Young Gates, Hannah Cornaby, and others. "Seek, and ye shall find" them. Rejoice in the Lord; again, I say unto you rejoice." SONGS OF THE SEASONS. Spring. 72 The opening buds of springtime. 250 Easter morning (Duet). 14 Catch the sunshine. Spring. April Relief Society Magazine, 1915. 37 Sowing. 195 Are we sowing seeds of kindness? 264 What shall the harvest be? Summer. 75 Earth with her ten thousand flowers. 169 Days of summer glory (Duet). 228 O bright smiling morning. 123 There is beauty in the forest. Autumn — "Wheat" meetings. 132 Waiting for the reapers. 168 To the giver of all blessings. Song of the wheat. February Relief Society Magazine, 1915. 138 Today, while the sun shines. Winter. 180 The Bright New Year. 116 The joy and the song. 143 Providence is over all.
