remember. The Mormons trekked across the plains and founded this mountain empire, and at once when we recall the event, Brigham Young stalks across the stage.
It is not that we think less of the men and women who took part in these great movements. We know that not one of these geniuses could have become great without followers who were likewise great. The common man and woman of Mormondom were not a whit behind the moving spirits of every historic epoch. Side by side with Brigham Young were ten thousand other men far less known, but equally as resolute, equally as bold, equally in enterprise, equally as loyal to a mighty cause. Had accident or the purposes of the Almighty chosen them to the supreme command, they would not have been found wanting. Each one that came here and endured to the end was a giant in faith, in courage, in steadfastness. The victory in the fight against the forces of nature and those of evil is always achieved by the common soldier. In following the fortunes of these stalwarts, one feels that he is watching the stride of supermen and that the life of each is as interesting as that of his leader.
Never before or since did men and women display such boundless energy. Within ten years of their arrival here the valleys of Utah had been taken up, villages or towns had been established as far east as Colorado, as far south as Arizona, as far north as the Salmon River in Idaho, and as far west as the Carson Sinks, to say nothing of the settlements in San Bernardino and the Mormon River district of California.
Wherever the colonists penetrated, there went law and order, thrift and frugality, and a decency in living seldom equalled and never surpassed. Roads were laid out, bridges built, towns surveyed, lands broken up and cultivated, homes, schools, and meetinghouses erected. In a primeval mountain fastnesses were conquered and the ring of the woodman's axe became familiar to the denizens of canyon and stream. LET US HONOR THEM 203 EVERY GREAT MAN IS BACKED UP AND SUSTAINED BY GIANTS IN FAITH IN COURAGE IN STEADFASTNESS STOCKRAISERS PROFESSIONAL MEN WOMEN STATESMAN BUSINESSMEN BUILDERS FARMERS ARTISANS A LEADER Water was diverted from a thousand channels and poured out upon the thirsty soil, thus making of a desert a fruitful field. The four corners of the globe were scoured to secure seeds that might thrive in this section, and soon the husbandman produced crops that were the envy of farmers in less favored places. MANY of the converts to the new faith were splendid artisans. Saddlers and farriers, brick and rock masons, carpenters and cabinetmakers, millers and lumbermen, wheelwrights and waggoners, blacksmiths and cobblers, all the trades known to civilization, were represented in practically every town by skilled workmen. Whatever was needed in the shape of home appliances and utensils, farm implements, or clothing for the body, could be and was produced. Sugar mills and tanneries, looms and spinning wheels, were soon in operation. Mass production with its thousand and one articles so common today-cereals, breakfast foods, bacon, ham, canned vegetables and fruits, and gadgets that make the housewife's labor a joy?had not yet made their appearance on the Western stage. In consequence, the local craftsman fabricated his wares with much pride therein, fully aware of their worth. Most pioneers had not had the blessing of an education, but they loved learning with passionate devotion. One needs but to scan the early issues of The Deseret News, note the advertisements and see how many of them have to do with educational subjects. Schools functioned in every village and hamlet, side by side with the plow and the scythe. For example, on September 20, 1848, Joseph Holbrook moved with his flocks and herds ten miles north of Salt Lake, and within a month had made a school-house of bullrushes and mud so that his children and those of Anson Call might receive tutelage. This is but one of hundreds of similar happenings, and by 1850 the University of Deseret was established. State, municipal, and county governments were formed and wholesome laws enacted. The crime, the drunkenness, and the general lawlessness that usually characterize newly founded communities were absent wherever these pioneers were in the ascendancy. When one realizes this and the self-sufficiency of the new colony, one sometimes wistfully wishes oneself back in its quiet seclusion, untroubled by the worries that harass the world today. This people was not wealthy in jewels and precious stones, in gold and silver, in magnificent mansions and palaces of pleasure, but its plain, homespun existence made for solidity, stability, and honesty, qualities which are sorely needed in this year of grace, 1945. Is it any wonder that we honor them?