We Will Give the Tenth Unto Thee Camilla Eyring Kimball and we ourselves know whether we give wholeheartedly with a feeling of gratitude and thanksgiving or with a feeling of compulsion or parsimony.
There are those Church members who worry about the use to which the Church funds are put. It is interesting to notice that it is not the full tithe payer who is thus concerned, but usually the member who wishes to find an excuse for his nonpayment of tithes in a declaration of his disapproval of the handling of the funds. There was a wealthy member of the Church, living in a small community, who openly declared that he would not pay tithing, but that each year he would give a sizable sum to some public charity or needy individual, for which he received newspaper publicity. He was heard to say, "I think I am a better judge of where my money will do the most good than the bishop or Church authorities are." This man gave to be seen of men and so has his reward. The tithe payer who gives with love and trust, unbinded by men, surely will receive a far greater reward, for he is storing up for himself treasures in heaven.
IN obeying the law of tithing, we have a tangible way of showing that our religion is not merely a form, but a living, active force in our everyday lives. In times of stress, such as the period in which we are now living, we feel, more than at any other time, a real need for activity to combat the evils at work around us. We cannot give passive lip service and keep our faith alive. What more definite, combative force can be found than the act of
going all the way in the payment of an honest tithing to our Heavenly Father?
Our boys who are fighting on the battle fronts all over the world are fortifying themselves with the force of true, honest living by sending their tithing from India, Alaska, Africa, Italy, England, and the islands of the Pacific. Their letters bear testimony of the strength which this tangible act of obedience gives them. It is a strand in the life line which ties them closely to the body of the Church and to our Heavenly Father. This is no lip service, but a concrete evidence of a desire to obey the commandments and so be worthy of blessings.
As Latter-day Saint parents, our responsibility to our children is not complete when we provide them with food, shelter and clothing. We are commanded: "And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (Doc. and Cov. 68:a3). There is a definite time to teach a child to pay tithing, and it should not be postponed until he is old enough to earn an income outside the home. An opportunity should be made for children, when they are very young, to earn their spending money by doing regularly and well, definite chores at home. They should then be taught to budget their money carefully, teaching them that the first tenth belongs to the Lord, and is not theirs to spend otherwise. Thus, they will learn the habits of honesty, thrift, and independence. The payment of tithing can easily be made a habit if there is never an exception allowed, even though children may feel they need the money for something else. and we ourselves know whether we give wholeheartedly with a feeling of gratitude and thanksgiving or with a feeling of compulsion or parsimony. There are those Church members who worry about the use to which the Church funds are put. It is interesting to notice that it is not the full tithe payer who is thus concerned, but usually the member who wishes to find an excuse for his nonpayment of tithes in a declaration of his disapproval of the handling of the funds. There was a wealthy member of the Church, living in a small community, who openly declared that he would not pay tithing, but that each year he would give a sizable sum to some public charity or needy individual, for which he received newspaper publicity. He was heard to say, "I think I am a better judge of where my money will do the most good than the bishop or Church authorities are." This man gave to be seen of men and so has his reward. The tithe payer who gives with love and trust, unlauded by men, surely will receive a far greater reward, for he is storing up for himself treasures in heaven. TN obeying the law of tithing, we have a tangible way of showing that our religion is not merely a form, but a living, active force in our everyday lives. In times of stress, such as the period in which we are now living, we feel, more than at any other time, a real need for activity to combat the evils at work around us. We cannot give passive lip service and keep our faith alive. What more definite, combative force can be found than the act of going all the way in the payment of an honest tithing to our Heavenly Father? Our boys who are fighting on the battle fronts all over the world are fortifying themselves with the force of true, honest living by sending their tithing from India, Alaska, Africa, Italy, England, and the islands of the Pacific. Their letters bear testimony of the strength which this tangible act of obedience gives them. It is a strand in the life line which ties them closely to the body of the Church and to our Heavenly Father. This is no lip service, but a concrete evidence of a desire to obey the commandments and so be worthy of blessings. As Latter-day Saint parents, our responsibility to our children is not complete when we provide them with food, shelter and clothing. We are commanded: "And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (Doc. And Cov. 68:28). There is a definite time to teach a child to pay tithing, and it should not be postponed until he is old enough to earn an income outside the home. An opportunity should be made for children, when they are very young, to earn their spending money by doing regularly and well, definite chores at home. They should then be taught to budget their money carefully, teaching them that the first tenth belongs to the Lord, and is not theirs to spend otherwise. Thus, they will learn the habits of honesty, thrift, and independence. The payment of tithing can easily be made a habit if there is never an exception allowed, even though children may feel they need the money for something else. Sometimes children earn money and carefully save it for a special purpose, and are tempted to let the Lord wait until later for that which is his. Parents would do well to be firm in permitting no exceptions to the rule that the tithe comes first; it is not ours to spend. It should be designated for the one, sacred purpose. Thousands will testify to the greater joy and strength which comes from strict and unfaltering obedience to this law of the gospel.
In preparing a Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association class of young girls to make an excursion to the temple to be baptized for the dead, I was astounded to find how many of them had never paid tithing, nor felt they had ever owed any. Many of them had earned small allowances at home, but just had not been taught that they should be tithed. We only learn to do by doing, and it is most important that parents create the opportunity for the forming of this habit in very young children. Some parents make the excuse that it would be a burden for the bishop to keep a child's name on the tithing record for a very small sum. Any
bishop worthy of the calling feels a real thrill when a child comes to pay his tithing, even if it be only a dime. A child's tithing receipts should be among his most prized possessions, tangible evidence of his worthy standing in the Church?not to be exhibited, but for his own satisfaction. The amount is not the important thing; the child's or the widow's small tenth is just as acceptable in the eyes of the Lord as the thousands paid by the rich man.
The Lord has spoken through his prophet Malachi: "Prove ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." Blessings of health, of harmony in the home, the feeling of peace and well-being in one's soul, of love and good will toward one's neighbors, cannot be bought with money, but only by keeping the commandments. These blessings may be ours if we can say as did Jacob, "and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee."