And Once to Grandma Doris Palmer GRANDMA Stanton looked wistfully after the mail truck, fading fast disappearing down the dusty street. Grandma had walked the six blocks to the little post office in the heart of the small rural town of Lakeview, for the past five days, and had received no word of any kind from any of her five children. They were all married now, and had families of their own. This was the first year Grandma hadn't had birthday cards and gifts sent in plenty of time for her birthday. Now only one short day remained.
"I'm sure there will be something tomorrow, Grandma," Donald Harmon, postmaster and owner of the small grocery store adjoined, comforted her, "I'll bet your birthday will be remembered all right."
"Oh, I am sure it will," Grandma tried to reassure herself, "but I never bet in my life, Donald Harmon."
"Well, you would lose this bet," Donald called after Grandma's retreating figure. Everyone in Lakeview loved and understood Grandma Stanton. She always put on a brave front, and underneath had a sweet and sensitive nature.
There was no time to stop and talk with friends who called to her as she hurried home?not this morning. Granddad was getting the ground ready for the vegetable and flower garden. They were late in getting it planted anyway.
Grandma viewed their large, comfortable home with mixed feelings as she approached. The house was of colonial design, set back from the road amongst a group of oak and fragrant locust trees. To the right was the family orchard. The trees were already covered with pink and white blossoms. On the left was the vegetable garden. Two cedar pines decorated the front gate, one on each side of the walk.
The Browns lived one block nearer town, and the Hudsons two blocks farther north. The Hudsons paddled the three Jersey cows Grandma insisted on keeping. She did love to take care of milk, and make her own yellow butter and creamy buttermilk.
Grandma and Granddad had been among the first settlers in Lakeview, and had watched its growth with pride and interest; but they had sold their farm to the Hudsons when the two boys had chosen other professions, two of the girls had married business men and Mary had married a young doctor in the nearby college town. It was there she had attended school and won a teacher's certificate, only to get married the following season. Now the old house was empty of young voices.
Granddad was leaning on the plough handles waiting for Grandma's approval of the ground. Maybe it was not deep enough, and Granddad was not taking any chances. His hat was pushed back from his ruddy face, disclosing the shock of gray curly hair that was so like a little boy's. His bright blue eyes were twinkling at Grandma as she came through the gate."No packages, Maw?" he questioned, glancing at her empty hands. "Not a blessed thing, Dad. Do you suppose something's the matter with any of them?"
"Now, don't go to supposin', or you'll have 'em all sick," Granddad interrupted. "Don't some of the teachers graduate next month?"
Grandma thought a minute. "Why I believe Lanie graduates from high school and little Lennie from grammar."
"Well, em's mighty dang expensive to graduate 'em nowadays, Maw. Jane says they reckon on presents and a lot of fine new clothes."
Grandma sighed. "Yes, I know, Dad. It's not like when we went to school. We were only too glad to be able to go. Maybe that's why Ellen and I never bought 'em presents, but they could write a fine long letter. Mary was coming to visit next month, or as soon as school was out and John could get away." Grandma was trying to find excuses for her children and, as usual, she succeeded. So now she brushed the little uneasy feeling behind her, and proceeded to boss Granddad and the making of her garden.
"Dad, can we get the vegetables planted this afternoon? Dear, dear, there is so much to do. We will just have to," Grandma decided. "I can plant my flowers in the morning."
Granddad nodded his gray head and pushed his hat to a perilous position, squinting at the heavens. Off to the southwest were angry-looking clouds tumbling over each other as though driven by the thunder that could be heard ever louder as the men plowed.
"Thunder shower comin', Maw. Better get your little chicks in. It'll be here soon. It'll be the very thing for the garden. Get up, Dane," he clucked to the big gray horse, "Let's get this finished."
Grandma raised her pleasant, seamed face to the growing wind and sniffed it eagerly. You could already smell the rain. That sweet, earthy smell. It was on just such a night that many years ago, it seemed to Grandma, that Robert came running in, his round face dirty and excited. "Mother! Jane said I could just taste the dirt after a rain. She told a lie didn't she, Mom?" He had been disappointed when she had told him that Jane just thought she could, because the smell was so fresh and strong. Grandma smiled at the remembrance.
Lennie's mischievous face then came before her, as he hurried to the chicken yard. His curly, white head could be seen now and then of the day bobbing up and down amongst the chickens. He would delight in these little chicks, she thought, picking up the different colored little bits of fluff, and putting them in the box with their mother where they chirped contentedly. Somehow Lennie never did hurt them or hold them too tight after Robert did. She had always told him he should raise chickens.
Grandma's thoughts often strayed back to the time when her family was at home. As she hurried about the neat, sunny kitchen preparing the simple dinner, she wondered if Mary still loved home-cured ham. She placed thick slices of it beside the pitcher of creamy milk. Robert used to drink milk until she couldn't see how he managed to eat anything else. It wasn't so long ago that Lennie, home from college, had put his arms around her, giving her a "bear hug," as he called it. He had bragged that no one in the world could turn out such nifty-tasting bread out of common flour. If she could just have them all back together again to cook for and pamper, it would be heavenly. She brushed away an obstinate tear as she went to call Granddad.
It sprinkled a little as they were eating "It's just teasing," Granddad said, "we'll get a good one tonight. Be better for the garden anyway. It might have been too wet to plant this afternoon."
That evening after the garden was planted and the chores and supper over with, Granddad let the paper he was reading fall to the floor and looked at Grandma with twinkling eyes. Granddad's eyes were always twinkling lately, more than usual it seemed.
"Anna Brown was over this morning while you was uptown," Granddad remarked with an air of great importance. "She wanted to know if you would save all your cream tonight and in the mornin'. She went on up to Hudson's to see if they would have some."
"My lands, what's she goin' to do with all that cream?" Grandma's eyes were wide with wonder.
"Well, she said some of her school chums were comin' on a visit, and she wanted something nice and coolin'. So I reckon she is making ice cream. If'n, it sure would taste fine these warm days."
"Yes, it would, Dad. We might make some. If Ann didn't want more'n half, there would be plenty for Grandma's birthday tomorrow. Grandma was wondering who Anna's chums were that were coming. It was a shame the girls couldn't come now, too. Especially Mary. She would know them all. Her thoughts went back to their neglect of her birthday. It was the first time they had forgotten it since they had all left home.
THE Stantons were almost always up with the sun, but Grandma beat the sun this fresh spring morning. It had rained during the night and everything was washed clean, and was being brushed with gold as the sun sent its golden rays among the scented trees. The birds acted as though they would burst their throats with the silvery notes they spilled forth to gladden the world. Grandma's heart was light as she prepared breakfast, pausing now and then to breathe deeply of the clean, fragrant air. Granddad came in with the milk and admonished Grandma not to forget the cream Ann wanted. ?Too wet to plant your flowers this morning, Maw. I do not want to plant your flowers this morning, Maw. Reckon I could plant 'em this afternoon, if you won't be too blamed busy," Granddad offered.
"Well, I'll just keep the few dahlia bulbs I've got and you can plant the rest. I'll show you where I want them before I go for the mail. Maybe I'll stop a minute at Ann's on my way back."
"I wouldn't stop there if I was you, Maw. Ann will be busy, I reckon, with the party for her friends."
"Well my lands, that's why I'm stoppin', Maybe I can find out who it is comin'," Grandma was surprised at Granddad's lack of interest in the coming friends. Ann had always been like one of their own daughters.
"Ain't you goin' to make a cake today, Maw? One of them fruit cakes the boys like so. You could make a cake for your birthday while I'm plantin' your garden for you." Granddad was one of the boys who liked the cake he suggested.
"It looks like I would have to, if I get one," Grandma said fretfully. "Ann sent me one last birthday, but ain't five new with her friends today."
Grandma had to wait a few minutes for the mail truck to arrive. There was no one else in the post-office but herself. Donald Harmon and herself. She fidgeted around looking at the labels on the canned goods, until Donald had begun to sort the mail.
"I guess no one else is so anxious there as me," Grandma remarked, a sensitive smile playing around her mouth.
"It's been kinda quiet all mornin' here," Donald answered, flipping the list he'd left over, hating to look into the eager eyes watching him so expectantly. "I guess there ain't anything Grandma. There was no packages a'tall this morning, ain't there anything else you want?" he questioned, trying not to notice the tears Grandma was dabbing at furtively.
"Yes, I want to get some currants and citrus. Oh yes, and some brown sugar," she replied, trying to steady her voice. Pshaw, she never was good at hiding her feelings.
"Sounds like a cake was in the makin', Gram-ma. If it's as good as the last cake you brought to Rilla's wedding social, I'll sure be good." "Now, Donald, you are just try-in' to make me feel good," Grandma scolded, picking up her packages. "Maybe I'll send you a piece of it," she called back from the door.
Grandma was feeling pretty blue as she made her way back. She left old and out of everything.
A sound of great activity met her as she paused at the little iron gate leading into Anna's. Maybe Ann would like the ice cream when she was so busy. Grandma hesitated, one hand on the latch. Curiosity got the better of her, however, so she marched up and knocked on the door. There was a sudden quiet as Ann came and opened the door. "Why, hello Grandma," Ann said loudly. "I never expected to see you over here. I thought you were planting flowers." "It was too wet this morning and Dad's plantin' some this afternoon," Grandma explained shortly.
"Come on in, Grandma," Ann invited after a hasty glance over her shoulder.
"I was wonderin' if I couldn't come in," Grandma said, her quick eyes taking in the drops of colored frosting scattered on the dining table.
"Hello, Grandma," Helen Larsen cried, running up and kissing Grandma's withered cheek. "I'm coming over tonight, if I get through helping Ann in time. It's your birthday today, isn't it?" Ann broke in. "Mary mentioned it in her last letter. Let's see, that's been two weeks ago," she said as though thinking. "We should have had a party on Grandma, Helen," Ann said indignantly.
"At my age?" Grandma scoffed. "I?m gettin? too old for such doings." "Wait till I get my hat, Grandma, and I'll go with you and get my cream." Ann ran into the bedroom as Grandma started collecting her bundles. "You know, I never had a party in my life," Grandma confided as she placed the jug of cream in Ann's hands. "Why, Grandma, honestly? We will certainly have to give you one sometime," Ann promised, a slight flush stealing over her face. "Now Ann, I ain't askin' for a party, but I have always wanted one," she added wistfully, a faraway look in her e3'es. "Well, I must hurry." Ann quickly dropped the money in Grandma's hand. "Now don't forget, you have a party coming sometime in the future. Grandma," and Ann's face wore a happy smile. Granddad said he had to go uptown in the late afternoon and wanted to know if Grandma was going with him. "Well, I was going to see Grandma Hudson but I'm kinda tired, so guess I'll just rest a bit," she replied. "I reckon you better Maw, the Larsens are comin' over tonight and you don't want to feel tired." Granddad got home just in time to milk. It was growing dark when he finally came in for supper, making much over the fruit cake Grandma had placed in front of them. "It's not my birthday. Maw," Granddad teased her. "Oh hush, Dad." Grandma didn't want to be reminded of it. She couldn't help feeling the children had neglected her. Grandma and Granddad were quietly reading when a loud knocking and shuffling of feet brought Grandma to the door. The sight that met her startled eyes nearly made her faint. The whole front porch was crowded with people. In the front of the group were her own five children, loaded down with bundles. Packed around them was the whole town, it seemed to Grandma. The words "Mother" and "Surprise" were mingled together as Grandma was picked up and placed inside, to be instantly smothered with arms from all directions. Everyone began talking at once, trying to answer the puzzled questions Grandma couldn't keep from asking. "You tell her, Anna," Mary called above the excited crowd. "Well," Anna began, "Mary and the rest of your family had the idea of bringing a surprise party on you, and asked Granddad to meet them on the 5:30 stage. That is all there is to it, except I was afraid you would catch on when you were at my place today. We were decorating the birthday cake when you walked up to the porch, and I had to make you wait at the door while Helen whisked it into the kitchen." "But how could you children get away alone?" Grandma wanted to know further. "Well, we just decided it would be nice to be home together again, so we just left our present sweethearts for our former one!" Lennie broke in, sitting with one arm around his happy mother. "We can only stay a few days, except for Mary. She is staying and John is coming and bringing the youngsters in a few days, for a longer visit." 241 "I think we should sing some songs to start the evening right and bring back old times," Robert suggested, getting up and motioning Ellen to the piano. "Let's begin with 'When You and I Were Young, Maggie' and say 'Mary' instead of 'Maggie' when we come to it."
"Oh I don't believe I can stand much more," Grandma said in a shaky voice.
After a few songs and games, Grandma looked up to find Granddad's twinkling eyes on her. "Dad, you old cheater, did you know all about this and never told me?"
"Sure, I did," Granddad was enjoying himself immensely, "I even gave Ann the money to buy the cream with."
"Well, I never." Grandma sank back in her chair. "And I never even suspected a thing."
Happy tears blurred her eyes when the time came to cut the birthday cake. It wasn't the huge cake nor the many gifts that brought those tears, but the knowledge that her children had given her first party. 242 "