[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: A Loan Kate B. Curtis]

A Loan Kate B. Curtis As I sit looking through my school-room widow, to the green hills beyond, sweet, earthy smells are wafted in to me. The "out-of-doors" is calling to me today. The sunshine and the green things springing up, take me back to a year ago, over at our ranch across the river, where Garrie, Val and I walked through the green grain fields, past the old straw stack and along the river where the green willows grew, then through the fence to where the mustard greens were thick. Garrie would stop to play in the sand, while Val threw herself down on the green clover bed, to enjoy the first sweet smells of Spring. This morning, I brought one or two of my phonograph records in, to play on the school machine. As I listened to "Birds of Spring" my thoughts went back to our Thatcher home. In fancy I saw Garrie playing on the lawn, while Val picked roses from the tall bushes by the porch. Away down the side walk I could see Val's Aunt Lottie in her blue apron and pink tatted cap, coming with her light airy tread, sq buoyant with life and hope. This Summer I'll again play the records I love, while the smell of the roses is wafted in at the window. Val will be near by, bui Aunt Lottie will be so far away, she can't come in to play the piano or talk in her cheery bright way—perhaps mother will come, though., Kathleen will roll on the rug in Garrie's place. He has gone where the flowers are even prettier and the voice of Spring calls iouder. He hears the music of the heavenly choir but cannot share the joy with us—not yet. *) We) ep RE "How would you like to have a real worth-while birthday present?" I asked John, as we stood under our new arbor. "Alright," he smiled, "but there's no such good luck." I smiled as I considered the possibility. His twenty-sixth birthday would be in three more days. True, we had been expecting a visit from the stork for the past week, but it might delay a little longer. Sure enough, it came on the afternoon of John's birthday. He was a proud father when he saw his little daughter for the first time, then stooped to kiss the girl-wife, who had been down into the "Valley of the Shadow." A LOAN. 127 We named her "Val" for besides being a birthday gift, she was also a Valentine. Six years passed by before we had any prospects of another child to be a playmate to Val. But as my twenty-sixth birthday drew near, John, little thinking that his words would come true, said to me, "This time it will be your turn to have the birthday present." He looked at me with kindly eyes, thinking of the pain and travail. When it was all over, and he stood in the early morning light, holding his tiny son in his arms, his heart was almost bursting with gratitude and thanksgiving that his dear wife was spared—to enjoy her birthday present. "Won't we have fun on the birthdays? Every one will be a double celebration," he told me. Ee OK * OK O€ When Gareth, for we named him that, was thirteen months old, we went from our Thatcher home for a while, to our farm across the river. The farm life took on new interest for John, as Garrie toddled about, trying to help papa. He loved to take his cup out at milking time, and drank the fresh foaming milk. He never forgot to feed his two cats either, often times before he himself had finished. He amused himself while Val was at school, playing with the two cats, climbing on top of the old mowing machine, or, as he grew older, riding to the field with John, where he'd try manfully to hold the plow, while John drove the team. So well he loved to go to the field that at times he'd slip outside, and, before I knew it, be half way across the ploughed field, hunting his "Pop" as he called him. Y He and Val loved each other so well, that there was seldom a cross word between them, and to offend one of them was to offend the other also. But once, in play, he bit her shoulder till she cried. Many times over she assured me that she'd just as soon play with her little brother as with Lorraine or Gladys Wiliams, who were girls her size. They loved best to play "lion," with the cat. The minute they knelt on the floor, the cat, standing a little way off, bristled his back and opened his eyes wide, looking very angry, as he showed his white teeth. Then he'd lay back his ears, and jump at first one of them, then the other, while they laughed and tried to get away. Val told him the story of all the pictures in his book. When  he looked at the one of the little boy crying, because he couldn't drive the goats out of the pasture, he'd kiss it over and over, saying, "Don't kie 'ittle boy, don' kie 'ittle boy." As he played, he'd sing: "Yove Pop: Yove Mom, Yove Tishter: Yove Kitty, Yove Tom Cat." When we went to meet Val as she came from school, he'd make his kitty stay home, for fear it would get lost in the bushes by the river. But by the time we met Val, there the cat was also. In my mind's eye, I see his little blue clad figure, his rosy cheeks, and merry eyes, as he looked at the cat in surprise to think it had come after all. He'd affect to scold it, but from the twinkle in his eyes, he was secretly glad it had come. _ What a happy time we had winter evenings, in front of the roaring fire with our books, and music. We learned to appreciate our phonograph in our isolated home. Gareth's second birthday had passed, and the crisp spring days had come. We took long walks through the green fields, past the straw stack, along the river where the green things were growing, through the fence and over where the mustard greens were thick. Garrie would stop to play in the sand, while Val threw herself down in the green clover bed, to enjoy the first sweet smells of Spring. Ofttimes the children rode back on "Pet" and "Brownie" while John and I walked along at their sides. I 1) FE ee One day Garrie reached up his fat little arms to me. "Kish, Mama, kish." After I'd kissed the little upturned face, while he patted me with pudgy hands, he led me into the dining room. "See, I wite letter Pop. Pop see letter," he explained. On the white-washed wall, opposite the dining table, he had written his letter. In days to come, we were to read the letter many times over with brimming eyes. It was but a few days until a new baby girl came to stay with us, and the children stood by my bed, carefully and tenderly, stroking her tiny black head. "Mother is so proud to have three children," I told them. Val's eyes shone bluer than I'd ever before seen them, and her hair hung in wavy tendrils, around her face, as she whispered to me, "We're so glad, too, Mama!"; But this happines and contentment could not last. The third night following, without warning, I awoke in a hard chill, and seemed freezing, then burning, by spells.  "The "Flu" epidemic had struck us! For four long weeks I lay scorching with fever, as I battled with death, so that my little ones might not be left without a mother. During this time, John and Val had a siege of it, and as I commenced to convalesce, Garrie was stricken. He was so ill from the very first, that I insisted, contrary to orders, on taking charge of him, although just out of bed. I wonder now how even my mother love gave me strength to drag myself around so soon after having given birth to a child, besides having the "flu" with its complications. But so many were ill at this time, efficient help was very difficult to obtain, and I could not bear to see my darling improperly nursed. Day after day, he lay burning with fever, and unable to take any nourishment, until his beautiful little body was shrunken and weak. We employed the best medical aid to be had, but too late, they found that he had developed diphtheria. These were days in which we turned for help to our Father above, and pleaded with him to spare our sunny-haired child. "Oh, Father, thou knowest that he has been the sunshine of our home, with his bright smile and merry ways, we do so want him to play again in the sunshine in his little coveralls and hat. "Thou knowest, Father, how grateful we were when thou gavest him to us, and how we have thanked thee, over and over, for thy gift. At the same time we say, 'Thy will be done.' " After a time, his fever left, but his heart was too far spent to rally. I heard him whisper, "Milk, hungry." As I bent over to kiss the wasted little face, he raised one hand to my face, then softly pressed a kiss on my cheek. That was his farewell to me! His life ebbed out while his father stood over him. "My little son, only God knows how papa hates to give you up, but he has to do it. The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away, Blessed be the name of the Lord." My gift, loaned for the three short years, so packed with joy and laughter had returned to the Giver. There lay the little red shoes he had been so proud of. No more would the little feet run to meet sister and papa. The blue coveralls I had made him, would never need replacing. There lay his wooden doll, the one he had best loved, his doll buggy, and chair, all to remind us of the little companion who would no more go with us to the green fields. It was now that John became bitter and reproachful. "Why couldn't God have healed our child? God is all powerful and we helped all we knew how, why did our darling have to leave us?"  We had no family prayers now, no grace over the food, no cheerful meals. John often left the table to feed Garrie's big cat when it begged at the door, then threw himself down on the bed to sob out his grief alone. Our neighbor thought to console us. "You have no right to grieve so over your child. God wanted him." "Ts it because God wants the little babies, that so many die in New York City every year?" John replied, "or is it because the milk supply is so impure that it kills them?" "Well it was different with you," she'd say, "your child had the best of care." Three days later, they brought her only little son in to her, after they had drained a reservoir to get out his body. When I went to her, she sobbed out to me, "I thought, when I tried to offer you words of comfort that I understood, Mary, but I didn't—I didn't." Except to ask me if she should still pray for Garrie, Val, during this time, never by word or tone referred to him, or voluntarily mentioned his absence. If I asked her a question concerning him, she'd answer me unemotionally, then change the subject quickly. = One night, as I saw her trudging home from school through the ploughed fields, I thought of the little blue-clad figure that used to run to meet her. Leaving the baby asleep, I followed the trail around the hill, and waited for her in the willows. She did not come. I went on farther, and found her, lying face downward on the clover bed, shaking with sobs. "What is the matter, my darling little girl?" I asked her as I raised her head into my arms. "Oh, Mama, I was thinking how Garrie used to come skipping on one foot, to meet me, his little tongue showing. "Here is where he used to look in my lunch basket to see if I'd saved him some of my lunch," she choked. "And there," pointing to the willows, "is where I broke stick horses for him." The brave little thing had suffered alone in silence to spare our feelings! * Fe * * kK * The day came, when, by sheer force of necessity, I was compelled to go to the Lord for help. Little Kathleen, my baby, was not thriving. I had not been able to nurse her since her birth, and she wasn't gaining in weight on her bottle. Our home was  desolation itself, and I, so spent with sorrow that I could not properly look after the children that were left me. Relief came each day only through earnest prayer. One troubled night I fell asleep, after long wakeful hours. John, Val and myself, all in Sunday attire, and I carrying my baby, walked toward a strange, magnificent building, thronged with people. I looked at John and thinking it odd that he was not leading Gareth along as usual, I mentioned it to him. He turned and went back, as if to fetch the child. He soon overtook us, leading Garrie by the hand. I looked the child over to see if John had properly dressed him for such a grand occasion. "Imagine my surprise! When my eyes fell upon his feet, he wore a pair of John's Sunday shoes, instead of his own, and odder still, he did not falter or stumble but walked with a light, springing step, as if the shoes were made especially for him. I looked questioningly at John. "Can't you see those shoes belong on his feet?" John made answer. After relating my dream to John, the next morning, he was very thoughtful for a long period. At length he said to me, "Mary, I guess he was needed beyond the veil to have charge of my affairs." This was a turning point for us. Seeing John feel better, gave me new courage. Although Kathleen had been bottle fed for more than two months, I again put her to the breast, hoping thus to restore my milk flow. Surely but slowly it returned and today my little Kathleen is a fat, dimpled baby, fast growing a mouthful of teeth. When she is not asleep in the room across the hall, she plays here by my desk in her big play box. This Fall, I am teaching the Mexican school, here in San Jose. It keeps my mind occupied so that I do not have time to think too much. I can see John ploughing in a near-by field, and here is Val, her arms filled with California poppies for us!