[Vol16 | December 1929 | Sequence: 10c | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for February - Lesson IV Social Service - The Field of Social Work]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK Lesson 2. Poverty and Dependency A. The Extent and Causes of Poverty It is important to distinguish between poverty and destitution.

Destitution is a state of absolute and utter want; poverty  is merely a relative scarcity of the means of subsistence.

Poverty, therefore, is much more frequent than destitution.

Because communities do not keep accurate statistics and there is no way of comparing one community with another, the amount of destitution and poverty in any country at a given time is almost impossible to determine.

Political economists, at different times, have estimated the number of people in a state of poverty.

Their estimates range all the way from one to ten per cent of the population, with five per cent as the median.

This would mean that at any one time about five per cent of the entire population are receiving some sort of public or private assistance.

There is no common agreement, either, as to the specific causes of poverty.

The most reliable opinion on the subject holds that poverty, like disease and crime, is a uniform consequent of many different antecedents.

That is to say, poverty is a symptom of social disease, just as a high temperature is a symptom of physical disease; and many totally different factors can produce it.

Jamison B. Hurry, formerly Medical Officer at University College, Reading, England, has called our attention to the "vicious circle" characteristics of poverty: "In the ordinary course of economic law, the reaction provoked by a social disorder tends to arrest such disorder.

For example, idleness is checked by indigence, crime by social ostracism, alcoholism by dyspepsia, insanitation by ill-health.

By this natural process the social organism maintains itself in health.

Where a Vicious Circle is present, the ordinary sequence is modified.

The reactions which should be beneficent are maleficent and intensify the disorder.

Poverty, one of the most important of social evils, is to some extent subject to the usual economic law, since it has sequela which render it disagreeable and therefore to be avoided.

Unfortunately, however, there are other potent factors which aggravate in lieu of arresting the primary disorder, and cause poverty to become self-perpetuating.

As Solomon pointed out many centuries ago: "The destruction of the poor is their poverty.' "' Typical examples of this "vicious circle" relationship are the following: Poverty?improper housing?ill health?unemployment?poverty.

Poverty?improper food?malnutrition?low wages?poverty.

Poverty?ignorance?inefficiency?poverty.

Poverty?alcoholism?unemployment?poverty.

Poverty?improvidence?borrowing?poverty.

In a word, we may say that the causes of poverty are any and all circumstances that operate to deprive a person or a family of the necessaries for subsistence and efficiency.

Chief among these, are ill health, low mentality, unemployment, indolence, limited education, low wages, improvidence, physical and mental handicaps.

B. The Care of Dependent Adults The oldest institution in English-speaking countries for the care of the pauper is the almshouse, or, as it is sometimes called, the "poor house" (in England it is still called the workhouse). This institution became firmly established under Queen Elizabeth, in the seventeenth century.

Our Puritan and Pilgrim ancestors continued the pattern in this country, with the result that every American county either has an almshouse or makes an arrangement with a neighboring county to care for its indigent old men and old women.

Originally, the almshouse was a ''catch-all'" for indigents of all sorts,?the insane, the unemployed, dependent children, the crippled, the blind.

One by one these latter groups have been taken out of the almshouse, to be cared for in other ways, leaving only the homeless, indigent adult.

Almshouses have little to commend them.

They carry with them an unfortunate stigma which the inmates always resent. ?Over the hill to the poor house" is a phrase that suggests the nature of public opinion on the subject.

The food, the lack of stimulating occupation, and the isolation from free society, are among the common objections to the place.

In order to avoid the stigma of the "poor" house and at the same time to secure the advantages of congregate living, many religious groups?for example the Jews, the Lutherans, the Baptists,?provide homes for the aged of their own denomination.

The stigma has been further removed from these institutions by requiring inmates to pay a small amount per month or at the time of admission, towards their upkeep.

This plan of caring for helpless, indigent, old people has much to commend it.

Institutional care for indigent adults becomes necessary only when such persons lack savings, a private income, or children who will care for them.

In order to stem the tide of pauperism and to enable the aged to live in self-respect outside of the "poor" house, most modern states and nations have considered?and some have adopted?the old-age pension.

Kelso, in The Science of Public Welfare, says: "All the important nations of Europe have legislated upon the subject of old age pensions.

These with Australia, New Zealand in the East, and Argentina in the South, together with Canada, Alaska, and five of the United States, make up a grand total of thirty-one jurisdictions recognizing some form of old-age pension.

Seven countries which have non-contributory pensions are mostly English speaking.

They comprise a total population approximating 70,000,000. Fifteen nations require some form of contribution by the pensioner.

These have a population totaling some 240,000,000."  Old-age pensions have not been popular in the United States.

Arizona, in 1914, passed the first pension act and abolished the almshouse system.

Unfortunately, the law was declared unconstitutional.

Since that time Alaska, Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Utah, and a few other states have adopted old-age pension laws of one sort or another.

At best, these laws are inadequate because the pension is too small and the age limit? usually sixty-five or seventy?is too high.

As Kelso further says, "While the public is willing to succor the helpless out of sympathy as a private charity, they are not yet ready to pay out their subsistence to the improvident and other of the fraternity of the necessitous under some reasoned claim of right.

It doesn't go down with the individualistic American people.

Meantime the problem should be recognized for just what it is?the riddle of the empty stomach.

Experience of decades, yes centuries, with the public poor shows beyond question that the only way to relieve indigence adequately from the point of view of the dependent, and safely from the point of view of society, is through friendly personal case-work, wielding a sympathy tempered always by justice." C. Care of Dependent Families Supplementing the almshouse?the system of "indoor" relief ?is the plan of money doles, supplies of food, clothing, coal, etc., called "'outdoor" relief.

Monies for this service are, of course, secured through taxation.

This system is objectionable because it permits of so much abuse, graft, and patronage.

Yet it is far more economical when well administered than the almshouse system used exclusively.

If careful case-work investigation is made of applications for relief, "outdoor" relief has much to commend it.

The backbone of most private philanthropic work is what is called family welfare work, such as is administered by the Charity Organization Societies, Family Service Societies, Relief Societies, United Charities, etc., throughout the United States.

Family welfare work is becoming less and less a matter of furnishing relief in money or in "kind" and more and more a matter of rehabilitation.

It is in connection with this type of social work that the art of case-work is seen at its best.

Private philanthropic societies are not restricted by law as to the kind and amount of help that might be given to their clients.

In many of these societies an adequate budget is allowed for the families under care.

In some societies, notably the Jewish, this service has even taken the form of setting up a tradesman or an artisan in a small business.

D. The Care of Dependent Children Up until the beginning of this century the orphanage was the main institution for the care of dependent children in Anglo-American, ! communities, In 1909, however, President Roosevelt called the famous White House Conference to consider the general problems of child welfare in America.

At this time the consensus of opinion was decidedly against the orphanage as a place for dependent and delinquent children, The general principles concerning which there was substantial agreement among social workers at that time are the following: 1. Preservation of home ties wherever possible. '2. The paramount importance of preventive work. 3. The superiority of the foster home as a substitute for the natural home. - The adoption of the cottage plan for institutions, 5. The incorporation of child-caring agencies, 6. State inspection of the work of child-caring agencies. 7. 'Education in institutions as part of the public educational 8. The keeping of adequate records, 9. Physical care. 10. Co-operation among child-caring agencies, The beginning of the twentieth century saw also the introduction of the juvenile court movement in the United States-a movement that has spread to every state in the Union and to most civilized countries throughout the world The purpose and basic principle of the juvenile court is well stated in "A Standard Juvenile Court Law" published by the National Probation Association, 1928. "The purpose of this act is to secure for each child under its jurisdiction such care, guidance, and control, preferably in his own home, as will conduce to the child's welfare and the best interests of the state; and when such child is removed from his own family, to secure for him custody, care, and discipline as nearly as possible equivalent to that which should have ?been given by his parents," court.

There the child is detained only until approved private boarding-homes can be found.

The child is made a public ward, the State Board of Control becoming his legal guardian.

On an average children remain only a few months.

They receive good medical care and appropriate training in the common branches, manual training, and domestic science.

Another type of public child-saving activity is the boarding and placing-out System, as it is conducted in Massachusetts, New  Jersey, Indiana.

The Massachusetts Department of Public Welfare has extensive powers and duties in the care and custody of delinquent and dependent children.

The system for dependent children is essentially one of supervision in approved boarding-homes.

Another type of social work for dependent children is sometimes called the "mother's pension." This plan of allowing a widow with dependent children a sum of money each month in order that she might remain at home to look after her children, began in Illinois and Missouri in 1911. At the present time forty-two states and the District of Columbia have enacted mother's pension laws, or "aid to mothers" laws.

A unique feature of this system of public care for dependent children is the fact that in about half the states the responsibility for administering these laws has been placed upon the local juvenile courts.

This has had the advantage, in many places, at least, of minimizing the abuses that often accompany any system of outdoor relief.

Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. How much destitution is there in your community? 2. How would you find out how much poverty exists in your community? 3. Is there an almshouse in your county?

If so, what is the age, sex, nationality, religion, physical and mental health of its population?

Is the food, clothing, recreation, medical attention, adequate?

Have you ever visited this institution?

If not, why not: 4. If there is no almshouse in your county, what arrangements do your County Commissioners make for the care of indigent adults? 5. Are there any private homes for the aged in your community?

If so, under what auspices are they managed?

What are the requirements for admission? 6. What are the arguments for and against old-age pensions?

Is there an old-age pension in your state?

What are its provisions? 7. What are the essential characteristics of case-work with dependent families?

Do dependent families in your community get this sort of service? 8. What are the arguments for and against the orphanage?

Why did the American Legion, following a careful study of the situation, decide recently to use the system of child-placing instead of institutions for the care of war veterans' dependents? 9. Is juvenile court work in your community administered according to the White House standards of 1909? 10. How much is spent on mother's pensions in your county?

What is the average amount allotted to each widow?

Are careful investigations made before pensions are granted?