[Vol16 | December 1929 | Sequence: 10b | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for February - Lesson III Literature - The Lost Commander Florence Nightingale]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) THE LOST COMMANDER?FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE By Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews is the daughter of the Rt.

Rev. Jacob Shaw and Ann Louise Shipman.

On December 31, 1884, she married William Shankland Andrews.

The first story by which she was widely known was "The Perfect Tribute" which was published in 1906. Since that time she has written a number of books and various articles for some of the best magazines.

She is now living at Splitrock, Syracuse, New York.

"A great commander was lost to England when Florence Nightingale was born a woman."?Sir Edward Cook.

Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews takes the above quotation as a sort of thesis for her very readable life of Florence Nightingale, the mother of modern nursing.

That idea is like the ground cloth of a piece of tapestry behind the colorful patterns of the twelve chapters of the volume which was published in 1929 by Doubleday, Doran & Company, Garden City, New York.

On account of the fact that she has been a rather prolific writer since about 1906, Mrs. Andrews will not be a stranger to most of the Relief Society sisters.

Her little story of Abraham Lincoln?

"The Perfect Tribute'"?was one of the most popular short stories of the first quarter of this century and has had a very wide circulation.

Those who know her work will have some idea before reading it what The Lost Commander is like, especially from the literary point of view.

Mrs. Andrews in this as well as in many of her other works, has a tendency to be over sentimental.

But in the main she restrains her story except in dramatic places where she allows herself to drift dangerously near to what newspaper men call "sob stuff." She has a facility of expression, however, and an imagination which add charm to the story.

Mrs. Andrews begins the book with an imaginary incident in the life of Florence Nightingale.

She pictures the little girl ready for a ride in the carriage with her very dignified and stylish mother at Embly, Hampshire, England, where the Nightingales lived.

The nurse leaves the child for a moment while she goes away to attend to something.

In that moment a dirty, wounded cat comes along, excites the pity of the little girl, who scoops her up in her arms, much to the detriment of the immaculate clothes she is wearing.

The author introduces this imaginary episode to indicate that Miss  Nightingale, though a child of wealth and ease, the daughter of dignified English gentle folk, had from earliest childhood profound interest in the wounded, the maimed, and the sick of all classes.

This bent in the girl s character is traced through her young womanhood to the time when she took up nursing as a life's work.

On account of the author's propensity to mix imaginary incidents with the facts, the reader is sometimes a bit bewildered and is not sure just which is fact and which is fancy.

This adds to the literary interest of the book, no doubt, but detracts from its value as biography.

Another disconcerting feature is the frank statement that the author has set out to show that Florence Nightingale was in truth a "lost commander." With that thought comes the suspicion that the author has selected her facts, not to give a true and adequate picture of her subject, but to prove that she really might have been a great general had not fate made her a woman.

Mrs. Andrews is bitter in her denunciation of Strachey, the English biographer, on the ground that he purposely selects uncomplimentary facts to present, thus painting an incorrect portrait.

She says, "Strachey is a very 'smart-Aleck' artist indeed, whose trick is to make his sitters as ugly as possible, and yet preserve a likeness." And again: "People ought to condemn the more Strachey's dishonesty.

If Strachey were dull, one could forgive him?in fact, one would probably not read him.

A clever criminal deserves a deeper hell than a stupid one, not only because he does more damage but because he is more aware of his damaging." Of course the reader smiles over that statement, for Mrs. Andrews might be accused of selecting only those features to paint in that will show Florence a great commander, a fine figure everywhere.

She may be merely looking at the other side of the shield.

She does admit, reluctantly, that in the Lady-in-Chief's last years she was imperious, almost impossible, but she excuses her as deftly as she can.

Despite its faults, the book is very much worth while in that it does give an interesting picture in an interesting way of this great leader of modern women, who gave her life to a great cause; a work out of which has radiated many movements that have been important in the evolution of the world in the direction of better health, better care of soldiers during both war and peace, better care of all sick, in fact, and a clearer understanding of women.

According to Mrs. Andrews, she was the first woman ever to be appointed to any important office in the British government.

Florence Nightingale was the daughter of Frances Smith and William Shore, who later, on account "of inherited property, took the name of Nightingale.

This high-minded, splendid young couple went to the continent for their honeymoon, remaining several years in Italy.

While there, two daughters were born to them, . Frances Parthenope and Florence, named after the cities of their birth.

The younger, Florence, was born in 1820. Upon their return to England in 1821, the family lived at Lea Hall and later at Lea Hurst, Hampshire, on the Derwent River.

In 1825 Embley Park was secured by Mr. Nightingale and also became a home of the family.

The girls were well trained by Mrs. Nightingale in the art of managing a household, and, according to the times, were given a thorough education.

Florence could speak several languages fluently and was accomplished in other ways.

Though these girls had everything that.

Position and wealth could afford, Florence was restless, feeling that life without some high purpose was not sufficient.

While yet a very young lady she went on a visit to Rome, where she met Sidney Herbert and his charming wife, becoming intimate with both and loving both dearly.

This was a very important acquaintanceship for the reason that Sidney Herbert later became Secretary of War and assisted Florence Nightingale in carrying on her chosen work.

To indicate the bent of the girl's mind, it is interesting to note that in 1850 she wrote in her diary: "I am thirty, the age at which Christ began his mission.

Now, no more childish things, no more love, no more marriage.

Now, Lord, let me think only of Thy will." Mrs. Andrews reviews briefly the history of nursing; she shows that nursing in the modern sense was not known at that time.

Sisters of charity, it is true, had nursed the sick since early Christian times, but in continental Europe and England the nurses of Florence Nightingale's time were "drunken, immoral, and untrained." In 1833 Pastor Theodor Fliedner, of Kaiserswerth, Germany, founded a school for nurses.

He had in mind, however, only sisters of the Church.

This school really got under way in 1836, when Florence was sixteen years of age.

She heard of the Fliedner school in 1846 through a report which was sent to her by Baron Bunson.

Despite the entreaties of her parents, especially her mother, she entered this school in 1851 and remained three months.

She had found her work.

"This is life," she wrote.

"Now I know what it is to love life." In 1853 she went to visit the sisters of charity in Paris and to study the whole nursing situation.

Later she became superintendent of one of the nursing homes in Harley Street, Paris, where she received training that was of paramount importance.

In the year when she went to Paris came the Crimean War.

British soldiers, fighting hundreds of miles from home, were poorly cared for when they fell sick or were wounded.

A dispatch from Constantinople said: "No sufficient preparations have been made  for the care of wounded, not sufficient surgeons, no dressers and nurses.... In Scutari it is found that the commonest appliances of a workhouse sick ward are wanting, that men die through the medical staff of the British Army forgetting that old rags are necessary for the dressing of wounds." On October 14 and 15, 1854, Florence Nightingale and Sidney Herbert exchanged letters regarding the matter, and in seven days 38 nurses had been recruited to send to the front.

On October 27 they sailed from France, arriving in Constantinople on November 4. These women and their Lady-in-Chief found four miles of cots six inches apart, each bearing its wounded soldier, most of whom had not received the commonest kind of first aid.

These women literally rolled up their sleeves and went to work.

Mrs. Gaskell, the novelist, said of Florence Nightingale, "She seemed as completely led by God as was Joan of Arc:" so wholeheartedly did she enter into nursing and so indomitable was she in securing what she wanted for the soldiers.

Sidney Herbert said, "Those thirty-eight nurses on the way to Scutari are truer successors to the apostles shipwrecked at Melita than thirty-eight cardinals." Mrs. Andrews cleverly connects Tennyson's "Charge of the Light Brigade" with this charge of the women upon the war sufferers.

Her comparison is made all the more effective by the fact that the battle of Balaclava had just been fought when the nurses arrived and many of the wounded of the famous "six hundred" fell to their charge.

The treaty of peace was signed in Paris March 30, 1856; on August 6, Florence Nightingale returned to England.

Funds had already been gathered for a nurse's home, but it was not until 1859 that Florence Nightingale began the school.

She advertised for candidates, and on June 24, 1860, fifteen probationers were admitted.

They became the first lay nurses in the world's history and a new profession had been born.

The first class of 13 was graduated in 1861. Nursing, Mrs. Andrews declares, is Florence Nightingale's greatest and most lasting monument, although she was instrumental in opening the whole world to the entrance of women.

It was not until 1871 that Dr. Susan Dimock established the first nursing school in America.

The closing years of Miss Nightingale's life?she never married?though she suffered much from illness, were active ones.

She would not stop until many of the evils she had seen during the war were wiped out.

She was instrumental in having a Royal Commission with four sub-commissions established.

These Mrs. Andrews calls Miss Nightingale's four chicks.

They were: 1. A sub-commission to put barracks and hospitals in sanitary order.

2. A commission to organize a statistical department. 3. A sub-commission to institute an army medical school. 4, A sub-commission to reconstruct the army medical department and other big things.

From her bed she continued her work, directing many movements during the troubles in India although she did not leave England.

She was also instrumental in starting a movement for rural hygiene.

She wrote a few books, and many reports and papers.

The best known of these is "Notes on Nursing." In 1907 King Edward offered her the Order of Merit.

In August, 1910, she closed her career at the advanced age of 90. She was buried in Hampshire with her people, though before her death she was offered the privilege of resting in Westminster Abbey.

She preferred to be with father and mother in the beautiful country where she had spent her childhood.

One closes the book feeling that it is good to have known, even remotely, this woman who dedicated her life to a great cause, and won immortality through her service to mankind.

Questions and Problems 1. What is the evidence that Mrs. Gaskell was right in her statement regarding Miss Nightingale? 2. Read the "Charge of the Light Brigade." 3. Why might it be said to be a questionable practice for a biographer to take a proposition to prove in the biography? 4. Has Mrs. Andrews, in a book like The Lost Commander, any good right to criticize Strachey so severely for being dishonest? 5. In what way did the work of Miss Nightingale differ from the work of the Relief Society? 6. Some one might describe a first-class modern hospital and point out differences between it and earlier ones, or even home nursing methods.

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week