[Vol33 | June 1946 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Sanctuary Bailey]
Sanctuary    
 Alice    Morrey   Bailey  387 
Peace  in  a  Garden  
 Celia  A.   Van  Cott  395 
Summer  Song  
 Margery  S.  Stewart  401 
The  Origin  of  Song  
 Katherine  Fernelius  Larsen  407 
Class  Reunion  
 Olive   M.    Nicholes  41(i 
Little  Quails  Take  a  Walk  
 Lydia  Hall  431 
Mothers  of  This  Day    _ 
 _ 
 Gene   Romolo  43:i 
PUBLISHED  MONTHLY  BY  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Editorial  and  Business  Offices:  28  Bishop's  BuiFding,  Salt  Lake  City  1.  Utah,  Phone  3-2741.  Ex.  243. 
Subscription  Price:  $1.00  a  year;  foreign,  $1.00  a  year;  payable  in  advance.  Single  copy,  10c. 
The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be 
missed.      Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  both  old   and   new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under 
the  act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in 
section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned 
unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only. 
The  Ma«razine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
MAGAZINE  CIRCULATION,  75,400

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
VOL.  33,  NO.  6  JUNE  1946 
FOR  THE  COMING  NIGHT 
Grace  Sayre 
Here  in  the  shadow  of  the  hill, 
I  watch  a  lone  star,  white  and  still, 
On  the  cool  bosom  of  the  lake. 
I  hear  the  whispering  winds  that  shake 
A  willow's  lace  above  its  breast  .  .  . 
The  pool  is  broken  from  its  rest. 
The  star  is  scattered  into  quills 
That  tremble  with   the  pool's  small   thrills. 
The  voice  of  water  singing  low, 
The  cool,  sweet  winds  that  come  and  go, 
All   these— the  pictured   pool,   the  lace 
Of  willows— lend   enchanted  grace; 
Serenest  peace  is  on  the  land. 
The  star,  pool-bound,  puts  forth  a  hand 
And  with  slim  fingers,  shapes  the  light— 
A  taper  for  the  coming  night. 
The  Cover:    "The  Peace  Rose"  from  a  photograph  by  W.  Ray  Hastings

Photograph   by    Grace   O.   Tuttle 
MEMORY  GROVE  IN  SUMMER,  SALT  LAKE  CITY

Fasting 
Piiscilh  L.  Evans 
Member,  Relief  Society  General  Board 
A  
"FAST"  may  mean  either  a 
total  abstinence  from  food 
and  drink  for  a  prescribed 
period,  or  it  may  mean  only  a  cer- 
tain restraint  in  respect  to  the  par- 
taking of  food.  Fasting  is  a  very  old 
practice,  perhaps  as  old  as  recorded 
history.  It  seems  to  have  developed 
out  of  the  desire  for  proper  prepara- 
tion for  communion  with  divinity; 
hence,  its  universal  occurrence  in 
some  form  or  other  in  all  religions. 
By  curbing  the  appetites  and  the 
passions,  fasting  becomes  a  means 
of  moral  discipline  and  induces  ex- 
traordinary receptivity  to  spiritual 
impressions.  In  the  words  of  an 
ancient  writer  (Chrysostom),  "it 
makes  the  soul  brighter  and  provides 
it  with  wings  to  mount  and  soar." 
In  ancient  Israel,  fasting  was,  in 
the  earlier  times,  spontaneous— not 
regulated  by  law.  The  purpose 
seems  to  have  been  to  arouse  Je- 
hovah's pity  (2  Sam.  12:  22);  to 
avert  national  calamity  (1  Sam.  31: 
13);  an  expression  of  grief  (2  Sam. 
1:  12);  or  to  render  a  man  fit  for 
special  revelation  or  communication 
with  God  (Ex.  34:  28). 
When  Moses  received  from  God 
the  Ten  Commandments,  he  said: 
When  I  was  gone  up  into  the  mount 
to  receive  the  tables  of  stone,  even  the 
tables  of  the  covenant  which  the  Lord 
made  with  you,  then  I  abode  in  the 
mount  forty  days  and  forty  nights,  I 
neither  did  eat  bread  nor  drink  water: 
And  the  Lord  delivered  unto  me  two 
tables  of  stone  written  with  the  finger 
of  God  (Deut.  9:9). 
Daniel,  before  his  communion 
with  God,  and  the  visions  which 
he  experienced,  fasted: 
I  ate  no  pleasant  bread,  neither  came 
flesh  nor  wine  in  my  mouth,  neither  did 
I  anoint  myself  at  all,  till  three  whole 
weeks  were  fulfilled.  .  .  . 
And  I  Daniel  alone  saw  the  vision;  for 
the  men  that  were  with  me  saw  not  the 
vision,  .  .  . 
Then  said  he  unto  me,  Fear  not,  Daniel: 
for  from  the  first  day  that  thou  didst  set 
thine  heart  to  understand,  and  to  chasten 
thyself  before  thy  God,  thy  words  were 
heard  .  .  .  (Dan.  10:  3,  7,  12). 
Elijah's  revelation,  too,  came  to 
him  after  forty  days  and  forty  nights 
of  fasting: 
And  the  angel  of  the  Lord  came  again 
the  second  time,  and  touched  him,  and 
said.  Arise  and  eat;  because  the  journey 
is  too  great  for  thee. 
And  he  arose,  and  did  eat  and  drink, 
and  went  in  the  strength  of  that  meat 
forty  days  and  forty  nights  unto  Horeb 
the  mount  of  God. 
And  he  came  thither  unto  a  cave,  and 
lodged  there;  and  behold,  the  word  of 
the  Lord  came  to  him  ...  (1  Kings  19: 
7-9)- 
The  misfortunes  that  in  later 
times  befell  the  Jewish  people 
brought  about  the  establishment  of 
many  fast  days.  Some  are  days  of 
penance  and  humiliation,  but  many 
are  days  of  exhilaration  and  joy- 
festival  days.  And,  too,  fasting  is 
prescribed  on  certain  memorial  days. 
An  orthodox  Jew  fasts  on  his  birth- 
day after  reaching  the  age  of  thir- 
teen, and  on  the  birthday  of  his 
Page  363

364 
first-born  son  until  the  latter  reach- 
es the  age  of  thirteen,  both  in  com- 
memoration of  the  sparing  of  the 
first-born  of  the  Israelites  in  Egypt. 
The  anniversary  of  the  death  of  par- 
ents is  also  observed  by  fasting.  Fast- 
ing with  the  Jews  always  means  en- 
tire abstinence,  and  lasts  from  day- 
break until  ''the  appearance  of  the 
first  three  stars/'  excepting  only  on 
the  Day  of  Atonement,  when  the  fast 
begins  with  sunset  of  the  preceding 
day.  Children,  pregnant  women,  and 
the  sick  are  exempted  from  the  ob- 
servance of  the  fast. 
The  Jewish  Passover,  combin- 
ing the  fast  and  its  penance  with 
the  feast  and  its  exhilaration  and 
joyousness,  is  one  of  the  greatest 
of  all  religious  celebrations.  It 
epitomizes  the  religion  and  aspira- 
tions of  a  great  people,  and  has  been 
celebrated  with  great  faith  and  with 
earnestness  for  more  than  thirty 
centuries.  The  Passover  is  an  inspir- 
ing festival,  for  it  is  filled  with  hope, 
and  the  ceremonies  attendant  upon 
its  celebration  are  dramatic,  depict- 
ing in  action,  by  means  of  symbols, 
both  the  tribulations  and  the  glad- 
ness of  the  Exodus. 
Since  all,  even  the  very  poor,  must 
share  in  the  blessings  of  the  feast, 
it -is  obligatory  upon  every  Jew  who 
can  afford  it,  to  contribute  money 
to  a  fund  out  of  which  matzoh  (un- 
leavened bread)  and  other  Passover 
necessities  are  provided  for  the  poor 
and  needy.  This  fund  is  known  as 
Mo'ot  Hittim  (wheat  money).  The 
matzoh  is  made  of  dough  that  has 
not  been  fermented.  The  Israelites 
were  commanded  (Ex.  12:  14-15): 
And  this  day  shall  be  unto  you  for  a 
memorial;  and  ye  shall  keep  it  a  feast  to 
the    Lord    throughout    your   generations; 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE-JUNE  1946 
ye  shall  keep  it  a  feast  by  an  ordinance 
for  ever. 
Seven  days  shall  ye  eat  unleavened 
bread  ...  for  whosoever  eateth  leavened 
bread  from  the  first  day  until  the  seventh 
day,  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from 
Israel. 
This  deprivation  is,  of  course, 
symbolic  of  the  circumstances  of 
the  flight  of  the  children  of  Israel 
to  the  Promised  Land: 
And  the  Egyptians  were  urgent  upon 
the  people,  that  they  might  send  them 
out  of  the  land  in  haste  .  .  . 
And  the  people  took  their  dough  be- 
fore it  was  leavened,  their  kneading- 
troughs  being  bound  up  in  their  clothes 
upon  their  shoulders  (Ex.  12:  33-34). 
PEARLY  in  his  ministry,  our  Lord 
and  Savior  set  the  pattern  and 
molded  the  ideas  of  Christianity  in 
the  matter  of  the  fast,  and  this  has 
been  followed,  in  its  simplicity,  by 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  from  its  beginning. 
Although  he  himself  fasted  for  forty 
days  and  forty  nights  before  begin- 
ning his  ministry  (Matt.  4:  2),  dur- 
ing his  lifetime  Jesus  seldom  refer- 
red to  fasting.  He  left  no  regulations 
for  the  fast.  He  made  it  clear  that 
his  followers  were  expected  to  fast, 
described  an  acceptable  fast,  and 
left  it  to  the  Church  to  make  rules 
for  carrying  out  his  teachings. 
In  reply  to  the  question,  ''Why 
do  the  disciples  of  John  fast  often 
.  .  .  and  thine  eat  and  drink?"  he 
answered:  "Can  ye  make  the  chil- 
dren of  the  bride-chamber  fast, 
while  the  bridegroom  is  with  them? 
But  the  days  will  come,  when  the 
bridegroom  shall  be  taken  away 
from  them,  and  then  shall  they  fast 
in  those  days."  Our  Church  has 
interpreted  this  to  be  a  direct  ex- 
hortation to  fast  when  the  Savior