[Vol33 | June 1946 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: For the Frontispiece]
«    *    *    « 
406  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE-JUNE  1946 
it  was  impossible.    You  can't  ever  like    a    school    boy.     The    hinges 
go  back,  really.  Even  tlie  streets,  the  squeaked  gaily, 
houses,    aren't    quite    the    same.  ''Hey,   don't  do   that!''   shouted 
They're  a  little  older,  a  little  more  little  Jimmy,  coming  up  jealously, 
weather-beaten."  ''My  Mom  won't  let  me  do  it." 
''The  war  has  changed  everything,  She  won't?  thought  Mrs.  Wyn- 
Don."  ston.    Well,  of  course,  hinges  are 
"I   know  it.    Even  little  Susan  harder  to  replace  in  wartime,  but— 
Endell.    I  think  I've  loved  her  all  She  had  a  job  to  do.   She  must 
my    life,    Mrs.    Wynston,    but    I  call   up   the  Murphy's  house  and 
couldn't  tell  her  so.   Just  the  sight  tell  Don's  sister  her  brother  was  on 
of  her  made  me  tongue-tied."  He  his  way  home,  so  she  could  prepare 
was  flushed  and  boyish  now.    ''She  his  mother  for  the  surprise.    They 
was  so  feminine  and  fragile  looking,  had  never  told  him  his  mother  had 
Well,  this  very  morning  as  I  walked  had  a  heart  attack.    They  hadn't 
past  her  house,  there  she  was  work-  wanted  to  worry  him  while  he  was 
ing  in  her  garden.   She  wore  a  big  away.  Besides,  she  was  much  better 
straw  hat  and  her  face  was  flushed  now,   but    a   sudden    shock,    even 
with  exertion.   There  were  freckles  though  a  pleasant  one,  should  be 
and  a  smudge  of  dirt  across  her  nose,  avoided, 
too,  and  because  of  it  I  forgot  to  be 
shy  and  before  I  knew  it,  I  was  kis-  Camilla  sat  down  weakly  in  the 
sing  her  and  telling  her  all  the  things  porch    swing.     The    sight    of    her 
I've  dreamed  of  for  so  long.    And  mother  dashing  up  the  steps  and 
Mrs.    Wynston,    she    said,    'Yes',  into  the  house  was  too  much  for 
We're  going  to  be  married.  I  have  her,  but  the  firm,  commanding  voice 
a  thirty-day  furlough,  you  know.  But  giving  its  message  over  the  phone 
it  was  the  smudge  on  her  nose  that  was  like  music  to  her  ears, 
did  it."  When   Mrs.   Wynston   had   fin- 
"Maybe    so,"    said    the    woman  ished,  she  came  out  upon  the  front 
doubtfully.    "But  you've  changed,  porch,  and  it  was  as  if  she  had  just 
too,  Don.  You're  older  and  stronger  returned  from  a  long  journey.   Ca- 
and  more  sure  of  yourself."  milla  looked  up  at  her  mother  anx- 
"I  don't  know  about  that,  but  if  iously,  but  in   the  older  woman's 
I'd  seen  her  in  frills  and  furbelows  face  she  saw  only  vigor  and  courage 
I  wouldn't  have  dared."  and,  more  precious  than  all,  deep 
"Well,  I  won't  argue.    I'll  just  love  burning  there  for  her  daughter, 
congratulate  you,"  and  Mrs.  Wyn-  Camilla's  eyes  filled  with  hot  tears 
ston  was  laughing  quite  zestfully.  and  she  looked  quickly  away. 
Camilla  had  come  to  the  door  But  Mrs.  Wynston  understood, 
again,  her  face  puzzled  by  the  sound  It's  no  more  than  I've  done,  she 
of  her  mother's  mirth.  thought.     I  let  her  bear  the  brunt 
'Hello,  Don,"  she  called.  of  my  emotions.    She  uses  a  little 
"Hi,  Camilla.    I'll  see  you  later,  rebuke  to  cover  up  hers.    I  must  talk 
I  haven't  been  home  yet,  so  I  must  to   her    sometime,    not   now.   But 
get  going."  sometime,  to  let  her  know  I  under- 
Hc  swung  through  the  old  gate  stand  all  she  has  done.

THE  SETTLEMENT  OF  SANPETE  VALLEY 
407 
The  Settlement  of  Sanpete  Valley 
(Continued  horn  page  yj']) 
Sanpitch  River.  Two  years  later 
about  fifteen  Welsh  families  settled 
on  the  beautiful  spot,  and  named 
the  colony  Wales  in  honor  of  their 
native  country. 
Settlements  began  to  dot  the  Val- 
ley from  north  to  south,  homes  were 
built,  the  problems  of  supplying  the 
necessities  of  life  became  less  hazar- 
dous, and  the  settlers  found  time  to 
turn  their  attention  to  new  projects 
and  cultural  pursuits  which  augured 
well  for  the  future  of  Sanpete  Val- 
ley. 
[To  he  continued) 
■  m  ■ 
THE  ORIGIN  OF  SONG 
Katheiine  FeineUus  Laisen 
Man  listened,  rapt,  when  storm  winds  thundered  high 
And  made  the  forest  one  vast  symphony; 
He  caught  new  cadences,  when  on  his  ears 
First  fell  the  heavy  pulsing  of  the  sea. 
All  these— and  slow  years  added  to  his  cry 
A  depth  and  breadth,  of  pain  and  sorrow  born; 
A  resignation  to  embattled  life, 
A  hope  of  peace  for  hearts  by  anguish  torn. 
Out  of  his  joy,  his  toil,  his  need  for  God, 
His  grief  and  pain,  through  man's  allotted  days, 
Music,  the  comforter  of  man,  was  bom- 
Music,  the  perfect  medium  of  praise! 
GARDEN  AND  CONSERVE:   Add  your  bit  to  the  world  food  supply. 
Grow  as  much  food  as  you  can.  Do  not  waste  any  iood.

The  Price 
T.  A.  Hunt 
IN  
the  State  of  Utah  there  is  a  in  squares,  as  it  is  today,  but  the 
long,  nanow  valley  that  winds  whole  field  was  golden  with  ripened 
tortuously  for  nearly  two  hun-  shocks  of  cut  and  bound  grain, 
dred  miles  between  mountain  Many  things  had  happened  since 
ranges.  In  1865,  there  were  no  fer-  the  time,  three  years  before,  when  the 
tile  farms,  no  luxuriant  vegetation,  first  camp  had  been  made.  The 
nothing  green  except  a  thin  ribbon  first  year's  scanty  crops  had  been 
of  cottonwoods  and  v^dllows  along  planted  too  late  to  mature.  The 
the  winding  course  of  the  river.  Be-  second  year,  the  crops  had  been  sub- 
yond  this,  on  either  side,  a  wide  strip  jected  to  tv/o  scourges,  grasshoppers 
of  gray-green  indicated  the  grease-  and  drought.  Long  before  planting 
wood  area,  which  ended  at  the  foot  time  of  the  third  season,  the  Ute  In- 
of  the  silver-blue,  sage-covered  dians,  incited  by  Chief  Walker  and 
benches.  Perhaps  at  that  time  the  Chief  White  Horse,  had  gone  on 
valley  possessed  a  measure  of  beauty,  the  war  path.  No  conciliatory  ef- 
but  such  as  it  was,  it  was  cold,  fierce,  forts  of  the  settlers  had  induced  the 
and  inhospitable,  even  forbidding,  savages  to  consider  peace.  There- 
Like  the  Utes  who  roamed  over  its  fore,  much  of  the  time  and  energy 
bottom  lands  and  benches  and  of  the  men  and  boys  had  been  re- 
camped  by  the  river  and  the  moun-  quired  to  haul  the  rock  from  the 
tain  streams,  it  had  rugged  elements  bench  and  build  the  four  thick,  high, 
of  beauty,  but,  at  heart,  it  was  quite  walls  of  the  fort.  That  task  was 
cruel.  now  over.  It  was  a  homely,  but 
Late  in  August  of  that  year,  as  the  formidable  structure  of  gray  cobble- 
sun  sank  behind  the  Pavant  Range  stones.  Lean-to  shanties  built  against 
and  the  shadows  lengthened  and  the  inner  walls  afforded  a  crowded 
chased  the  sunlight  out  of  the  valley  shelter  and  a  minimum  of  comfort 
onto  the  bench  and  up  the  moun-  to  the  inhabitants.  Equidistant  from 
tainside,  there  to  linger  and  play  in  the  corners,  at  each  end,  was  a  sixteen- 
golden  glory  for  a  few  splendid  mo-  foot  gate  built  of  hewn  cedars  pinned 
ments,  herders  were  driving  home  a  together  with  strong  maple  pegs, 
motley  drove  of  cattle,  the  chief  As  yet,  the  Indians  had  made  no 
wealth  of  the  pioneer  settlement,  direct  attack  on  the  fort.  Tlie  chief 
These  were  to  be  kept  for  the  night  evidences  of  warfare  were  the  fre- 
in  the  corral.  Three  sides  of  this  quent  raids  on  the  cattle  herders 
enclosure  were  made  of  cedar  posts,  when  they  ventured  too  far  from  the 
deeply  and  securely  embedded  in  the  fort,  or  the  theft  of  such  cattle  as 
earth;  tlie  fourth  side  was  formed  by  wandered  into  the  canyons  in  search 
the  high  rock  wall  of  the  fort.  To  of  cooling  shade  or  greener  feed, 
the  north,  and  adjoining  the  corral.  After  the  sun  had  set,  two  men, 
lay  the  small  field  which  had  been  one  from  each  gate,  armed  witli 
cleared  and  broken.    It  was  laid  off  muskets,  came  forth   to  do   guard 
Page  408