[Vol33 | June 1946 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: My Johnson]
f18 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1946 
Big  Horn  Stake  {Wyoming) 
Lovell  Ward 
pROM  Big  Horn  Stake,  under  the 
presidency  of  Grace  E.  Allphin, 
the  report  of  an  outstanding  even- 
ing of  music  has  been  received. 
The  Singing  Mothers  of  Lovell 
Ward  presented  a  number  of  very 
beautiful  renditions,  including  "Hol- 
iness Becometh  the  House  of  the 
Lord,"  "Holy  Redeemer,"  "Lift 
Thine  Eyes  to  the  Mountain,"  and 
"Let  All  My  Life  Be  Music."  The 
director  was  Carma  B.  Johnson, 
with  Ada  B.  Baxter  and  Veoma 
Stable  as  accompanists.  The  organ 
prelude  was  played  by  Sister  Daisy 
A.  Tew. 
So  excellent  was  the    rendition, 
and  so  satisfying  the    spiritual    in- 
fluence of  this  program,  that  Bishop 
Frank  H.  Brown  of  the  Lovell  Ward 
wrote  the  General  Board  of  Relief 
Society  the  following  comment  on 
the  performance: 
I  am  herewith  enclosing  a  printed  pro- 
gram for  an  evening  of  music  presented  by 
the  Singing  Mothers  of  the  Lovell  Ward 
Relief  Society.  It  was  one  of  the  finest 
and  most  inspiring  evenings  I  have  spent 
for  many  years.  The  spirit  of  the  occasion 
was  outstanding,  and  the  ability  of  the  sis- 
ters in  their  presentation  of  the  songs  was 
of  the  highest  type.  The  pubhc  was  in- 
vited to  enjoy  this  hour  of  music  with  the 
saints,  and  their  pleasure  and  admiration 
were  very  great. 
You  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society  are 
to  be  congratulated  on  having  in  your  or- 
ganization a  group  known  as  the  Singing 
Mothers.  Many  people  have  been  brought 
closer  to  their  Maker  because  of  the  very 
sweet  services  rendered  by  these  sisters. 
SOUTH  LOS  ANGELES  STAKE  (CALIFORNIA),  HUNTINGTON  PARK  WARD 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  OFFICERS  AND  VISITING  TEACHERS 
This  photograph,  submitted  by  Sister  Viola  Thorn,  was  taken  in  May  1945,  to 
honor  the  eightieth  birthday  of  Sister  Katherine  Kimball  (lower  right),  a  faithful 
Relief  Society  worker  who  has  served  for  many  years  in  various  capacities.  For  the  last 
ten  years  she  has  been  a  visiting  teacher  in  the  Huntington  Park  Ward,  where  she 
achieved  a  100  per  cent  record. 
Sister  Dora  Wagstaff,  Huntington  Park  Ward  Relief  Society  president,  stands  in 
the  center  (top  row)   of  the  photograph.