[Vol33 | June 1946 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pickering]

Time blots the years with rigid certainty, But grants me largess in your smiling face. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FIRST WARD VETERAN RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS Front row, left to right: Betty Olson; Sarah Pitcher; Rhoda Coleman; Jane Miles (age 92); Mary Coleman (deceased); Cecilia G. Nelson (Age 87).
Back row, left to night: Lucile N. Erickson, President Smithfield First Ward Relief Society; Lettie Dowdle; Jane N. Tidwell, former counselor; Elizabeth Cannell, former president; Marty Griffith; Eleanor Miles; Matilda Coleman; Mary A. Deppe; Bishop Merlin T. Van Orden, Smithfield First Ward.
This photograph was taken in October 1944. All of these sisters, except one, are still living and enjoying fairly good health.
They have all served in the Relief Society for many years and all are still active. At the time the photograph was taken the thirteen elderly women averaged more than seventy-seven years of age. The average of the twelve now living is more than seventy-nine years.
Photograph submitted by Lucile N. Erickson Page 417 418
Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Lovell Ward ROM Big Horn Stake, under the presidency of Grace E. Allphin, the report of an outstanding evening of music has been received. The Singing Mothers of Lovell Ward presented a number of very beautiful renditions, including "'Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord," "Holy Redeemer," "Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountain," and "Let All My Life Be Music." The director was Carma B. Johnson, with Ada B. Baxter and Veoma Stahle as accompanists. The organ prelude was played by Sister Daisy A. Tew. So excellent was the rendition, and so satisfying the spiritual
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 influence of this program, that Bishop Frank H. Brown of the Lovell Ward wrote the General Board of Relief Society the following comment on the performance: I am herewith enclosing a printed program for an evening of music presented by the Singing Mothers of the Lovell Ward Relief Society. It was one of the finest and most inspiring evenings I have spent for many years. The spirit of the occasion was outstanding, and the ability of the sisters in their presentation of the songs was of the highest type. The public was invited to enjoy this hour of music with the saints, and their pleasure and admiration were very great. You sisters of the Relief Society are to be congratulated on having in your organization a group known as the Singing Mothers. Many people have been brought closer to their Maker because of the very sweet services rendered by these sisters. SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HUNTINGTON PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND VISITING TEACHERS This photograph, submitted by Sister Viola Thorn, was taken in May 1945, to honor the eightieth birthday of Sister Katherine Kimball (lower right), a faithful Relief Society worker who has served for many years in various capacities. For the last ten years she has been a visiting teacher in the Huntington Park Ward, where she achieved a 100 per cent record. Sister Dora Wagstaff, Huntington Park Ward Relief Society president, stands in the center (top row) of the photograph.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 419 MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, DUNCAN WARD (ARIZONA), HANDWORK DISPLAY From Mount Graham Stake, under the presidency of Erma M. Stewart, two photographs of an unusually beautiful handwork display have been received from Beatrice Merrell, Second Counselor in the Duncan Ward Relief Society. This display, in addition to the handwork, featured many treasured relics of pioneer days. 420
Pasadena Stake (California) EI Sereno Ward ROM Pasadena Stake, under the presidency of Madge P. Fowler, an unusually effective program is reported by Louise Willard, President of El Sereno Ward Relief Society: "A 'Temple of Life' was constructed, and a program portrayed a radio broadcast by the Relief Society women.
This was the introductory program of the year and presented a real challenge to our members. E] Sereno is anticipating the building of a new chapel and the theme of the broadcast was designed for this purpose.
Invitations in the form of a miniature chapel were mailed to each woman in the ward. 2 I N c kd
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 "When the sisters assembled to hear the broadcast, introductions were made by our first counselor, and Sister Marzelle Mangum sang "IT Love a Little Cottage."
Then the announcer, Faun Demke, asked what each sister had to contribute toward the building of the chapel. Our president, Louise Willard, made a comparison of the erecting of temporal buildings to the building of character. She placed, as the foundation of the chapel, Faith, Truth, Humility, Love. "The social science teacher, Blanche Calvert, placed the stately pillars, Tolerance, Sincerity, Trustworthiness, Morality. The walls, representing literature, were placed by Selma Child, who named PASADENA STAKE, (CALIFORNIA), EL SERENO WARD "Temple of Life" Constructed for a Program in the Form of a Radio Broadcast
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421 EMIGRATION STAKE, (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), THIRTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken on the 103d anniversary celebration and relic show day.
Note the young mothers and the many ladies in pioneer costume. Them Knowledge, Confidence, Culture. The Magazine chairman, Dorothy McCallister, opened wide the doors of Industry, Effort, Interest. Our visiting teachers' leader, Agnes Gallagher, gave us light through the windows of Understanding, Sympathy, Hope, Kindness. "Chanity and Service, presented by our work director, Clara Weinberg, constituted the crowning glory of the chapel, the dome. Marzelle Mangum, in music, gave Self-Expression, Gratitude, Joy, Balance; and the secretary, Connie Cleere, placed in the cornerstone, Remembrance. God-given Beauty was last added to this temple by Second Counselor Mary Snyder, when she placed Cheerfulness, Friendliness, Health, Understanding. "Marzelle Mangum sang "Bless This House," and Edna Kidwell gave the benediction.
After the program each sister was given a pencil and paper and asked to either draw a plan or to write down the ideas she might have toward the construction and decoration of a perfect Relief Society room." Emigration Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Thirteenth Ward ILLIE C. ADAMS, President of Emigration Stake Relief Society, submits an account of the accomplishments of the Society in the Thirteenth Ward as reported by First Counselor Thelma Vetterli: "We have just completed an outstanding year of work filled with spiritual development and growth. Our greatest accomplishment was to acquaint the younger sisters of the ward with Relief Society work and interest them to the extent that they are now actively engaged with us as a vital part of the organization. 422 We engaged the services of a competent person to conduct a nurse and play hour for the young children during meeting. "We then gave these younger sisters a job to do and we made them feel needed.