[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Bible Lesson Seeking a Wife Rebecca]

Guide Lessons. Second Week in March. BIBLE LESSON. SEEKING A WIFE REBECCA. (Reading: Genesis Twenty-Fourth.) Seeking a wife in marriage, from the very beginning, has been one of man's chief and most delightful interests: But there are ways and ways of doing this necessary thing. One of these ways we shall discover in the case of Rebecca's winning by Isaac. This is quite a suggestive romance, when you stop to think of it that affair of this interesting couple. Getting down under the surface of the details presented to us in Genesis and in Josephus, we disclose some foundational ideas in the affairs of marriage, and also some customs in vogue during those ancient times which it would be by no means to our discredit to imitate. But let us get some other, and less important, matters off our hands first. In those days, as in these, people lived in what we call the country and the city. Isaac's home was in the country; Rebecca's in the city. It must be remembered, however, that the city of those ancient times was very different from ours. What Nahor, the town where Rebecca lived, was like can be surmised from the following description: This pastoral region was to become so distinctively the home of that portion of the race which remained on the far side of the Euphrates, that it became known as the "town of Nahor." A vast limestone plateau, seamed by deep ravines, extends east and northeast of Corfu, but sinks into an alluvial plain to the south. On the slope of a low hill in the midst of this lies Haran, looking out over a wide and richly fertile level, of more than twenty square miles in extent. A circle of low volcanic hills shuts in the view and marks the character of the landscape towards the Euphrates. Small brooks appear after rains, but they soon disappear, and leave the open expanse to the fierce heat of the sun. In winter the temperature is low, but in summer the heat is intolerable, especially when the wind blows from the Southern Arabian desert. October and November see all traces of vegetation burnt up, except on the edge of any trickle of water; but, as soon as rain falls, all nature revives, though only to be speedily withered by the winter winds. Spring alone covers the soil with a comparatively more abiding carpet of grass, varied by countless flowers of every color, and offering every attraction of form and height. It is, however, as a whole, far from being what we should think a desirable climate. The change to summer is as rapid as that which ushers in the spring. The verdure of the plains perishes in a day. Hot winds from the desert burn up and carry away the shrubs; nights of locusts, darkening the air, destroy the few patches of cultivation, and complete the havoc begun by the heat of the sun, which soon grows over the face of the country, and can be seen advancing from the desert, carrying with them clouds of sand and dust. Almost utter darkness prevails during their passage, which lasts, generally, about an hour, and nothing can resist their fury. The Arabs strike their black tents and live during these hot months in sheds of reeds and grass, on the banks of the river: if they can find a spot furnishing the materials for such shelters. The thermometer ranges from 112 to 115, or even 117 degrees; and hot winds sweep, like blasts from a furnace, over the desert during the day, while they drive away sleep by night. Compared with such a home Canaan was a paradise. In the town itself, the ruins of an ancient stronghold, built of large blocks of basalt, still attest the military importance of the position. Nor was it less favorably placed for commerce. Four roads passed through it from the earliest times: to Assyria, on the east; to Babylon and the Persian Gulf on the southeast; towards Asia Minor on the north, and to Syria on the southwest. At the foot of the slope which is crowned by the ruins of that fortress, are nestled the beehive-shaped huts of the Bedouin population, who thus, like the inhabitants of the many villages of the open plain, still use dwellings exactly similar to those seen on ancient Assyrian slabs; scarcity, or rather war it, of timber, forcing them to adopt this singular style of building. Bare stone walls raised without cement into the shape of a sugar loaf, with a hole at the top for light, have in all ages been characteristic of the neighborhood. Everywhere in the plain one meets traces of ancient canals of irrigation, by which the waters of the Belik were utilized to spread fertility throughout the year on all sides. But the traveler is especially attracted by the "Wells of Rebecca," where Eliezer met the future wife of Isaac, and where Sarah had certainly often been, long before her. Even now, the flocks of Haran gather round them each morning, and the women still come to them to draw water for the day's use. The fullest description of this temporary home of Abraham, which became the permanent center of the eastern branch of his race, is given by Dr. Malan. He approached it from the north, where "the green as slopes level of the lower the traveler hills of advances Armenia" from Edessa, have sunk into the a hills rolling on the right hand and on the left of the plain recede farther and farther, until you find yourself fairly launched on the desert ocean; a boundless plain, strewed at times with patches of the brightest flowers, at other times with rich and green pastures, covered with flocks of sheep and goats feeding together; here and there a few camels, and the son or daughter of their owner tending them. One can quite understand that the sons of this open country, the Bedouin, love it, and cannot leave it; no other soil would suit them. The air is so fresh, the horizon is so far, and man feels so free, that it seems made for those whose life is to roam at pleasure and who owe allegiance to none but themselves. The ruins of the castle surmounting a mound makes Haran a landmark plainly visible from every part of the plain. That same day I walked at even to the well I had passed in the afternoon, coming from Corfu; the well of this, the city of Nahor, "at the time of the evening  the time when women go out to draw water." There was a group of them filling, no longer their pitchers, since the steps down which Rebecca went to fetch the water 
 are now blocked up  but filling their waterskins, by drawing water at the well's mouth. Everything around that well bears signs of age and of the wear of time; for, as it is the only well of drinkable water there, it is much resorted to. Other wells are only for watering the Flocks. There we find the troughs of various height, for camels, for sheep, and for goats, for kids and for lambs; there the women wear nose-rings, and bracelets on their arms, some of gold or of silver, and others of brass, or even of glass. One of these was seen in the distance, bringing to water her flock of fine patriarchal sheep here she reached the well, shepherds, more civil than their brethren of Horeb, had filled the troughs with water for her sheep. She was the sheik's daughter, the "beautiful and well-favored Sadheefeh." As the shadows of the grass and of the low shrubs around the well lengthened and grew dim, and the sun sank below the horizon, the women left in small groups; the shepherds followed them, and I was left alone in this vast solitude."  Geikie, "Hours with the Bible," Vol. I, Chap. 14. Rebecca was like the Sheik's daughter. When Abraham's servant came to the well at Nahor, he asked more than Laban's sister for a drink, though they all refused, and only Rebecca took clown her jug and quenched his thirst and that of his camels. This custom of women doing heavy work is characteristic of all primitive peoples. Indeed, some of the more civilized peoples of Europe today have not entirely gotten over this habit. As a rule, Americans treat their women better than most other peoples. Oriental travel in those far-away days was accomplished almost altogether by means of the camel. This animal was the most serviceable for the purpose, largely because he could go a long time without water. Those were not the days of the automobile, the steam railway, the electric line, or even the horse-carriage. It is in the matter of marriage, however, that we see the greatest contrast with our own times. Marriage with Abraham was a very solemn affair. So it was with his people after him. He and they, as do the Latter day Saints today, enshrined it in the sanctities of religion. Listen to that well-known conversation between the Patriarch and his servant: "And Abraham said unto the eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, 'Put, I pray thee, thy hand under mv thigh; and I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I I'well. But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac' "And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me into this land, must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence, thou earnest? "And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again. The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, "Unto thy seed will I give this land"  he shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence. And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath. Only, bring not my son thither again.' "And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter." From this passage it is clear that Abraham hell a marriage between his son and a Canaanitish woman in utter abhorrence. There was only one thing he would not rather see happen  the return of the family to the land from which he had been called by the voice 6i Jehovah. So he made his most trustworthy servant swear in the most solemn manner and in the name of God that he would do his best to turn aside such an evil chance. Why? Because Abraham had been given a sacred promise by the Lord concerning "the seed." It thus became his duty  there is no higher word  to preserve the purity of this seed. In the marriage of Isaac, therefore, the Patriarch appears to have been thinking of his remote posterity rather than of the personal happiness of his son. In terms of our own day, race was with him the prime consideration in marriage. Coupled very closely with this idea is the Abrahamic conception of the purpose of marriage. And this conception, as we shall see over and over again, was held to with great tenacity by his descendants. It was, that marriage is chiefly racial, rather than individual, in its aims and purposes. That Sarah was barren appears to have given Abraham more or less concern. Today alas barrenness is often assiduously cultivated in certain quarters of worldly society. It followed naturally from this ideal of marriage that the contracting parties, being young and inexperienced, should not have the final say in the matter of the mating. Indeed, they appear to have had no say in the matter at all. And this was true at the time of which we are speaking, not only in the case of Isaac, but of others as well. Abraham seems to have taken the initiative the servant chose the young lady; and Isaac did not see her till she was brought home to him "engaged." Nor does it appear that she was consulted in the matter. For, according to Josephus, she told the servant at the well that her brother Laban was "the guardian of her virginity." Moreover, the question which the Bible account says was put to her in the words, "Wilt thou go with this man?" was really intended to ascertain whether she would go before ten days or abide with her family for a time. How different, this, from the independent attitude of young people today, with their ideas of individual happiness, who look upon 
 the slightest hint from their parents that so-and-so will not do for them, as an unwarrantable interference with their personal rights and liberty! And yet how reasonable is the thought that God could as easily inspire the wise parents to choose rightly, as He could the immature young people, often guided only by sex-impulses. There is present in this incident the thought that God directs all matters. ''Behold," says the servant, "I stand here by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water. And let it come to pass that the damsel to whom I shall say. 'Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink;' and she shall say. 'Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also  -let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac." And when this very thing happened, he took it for a sign that the hand of the Lord was guiding him. Abraham himself had already promised the servant that the Lord would "send his before thee." Angel Marriage, therefore, among this rising people, whatever it may have been among other peoples of the age, was an institution established for purposes of race perpetuation, which ought to be guided, not by the personal whims, caprices, and fancies of young, inexperienced persons, but rather by the matured wisdom of such elders as have posterity in mind and know what is good for posterity. There seems to be even in the outside world a veering of sentiments respecting marriage, back, in some respects, to this ancient conception we have been speaking of. It is coming to be more and more believed among wise men of the world that marriage is after all a social or communal institution and that therefore society should have the direction of it in its own hands. Of this fact recent marriage laws in various states are an attestation. Collective man is endeavoring more than ever to say who shall and who shall not marry and to prescribe the conditions that shall obtain in the rearing of children. The Latter-day Saints teach, and have always taught, that those entering the marriage relation should seek divine guidance in the selection of a companion "for time and for eternity." QUESTIONS. 1. Give some of the conditions under which people lived at the time of Rebecca. 2. How was long-distance travel accomplished in those days? 3. State the substance of the conversation between Abraham and his servant concerning Isaac. 4. Why die Abraham hold in such abhorrence a marriage between his son and a Canaanitish woman? 5. Is there any matrimonial alliance  which he' would avoid for his son today, if he were living here? 6. What do you think of the practice of those times of not consulting the contracting parties in their marriage? Would such an idea work today? Why? 7. Why should the state have something to say in the matter of who should marry and the conditions of child-rearing? How much should the state have? 8. What, in your opinion, are some things that should prevent the marriage of certain persons, or classes of persons? BIBLE LESSON FOR MARCH. "Oh how I love thy law! It is my meditation all the day." Bible, Genesis. Chapters 26; 27; 28. Psalms, Chapters 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; 18; 19; 20; 21; 22; 23; 24; 25; 26; 27; 28; 29; 30. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 1;2;3;4;5;6;7;8;9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; 18.