WHEN we pay tribute to Alonzo A. Hinckley as a man we need not qualify or limit what we say. Everyone who knows him will bear witness that in describing President Hinckley's uprightness, superlatives may be used without exaggeration. His character is like a clear spring that flows from the rock uncontaminated. If I speak of him as I knew him I can use only those terms which apply to a superior man. It was my privilege and pleasure to accompany President Hinckley through the California Mission when he was first appointed to succeed President Joseph L. McMurrin as President of that Mission. Our continued close association gave me a clearer insight into his outstanding qualities as a leader of men. I had opportunity to observe, also, how ideally happy he was in his congenial home life. If I had been asked at that time to name his most outstanding virtue, I would have said it was an abiding faith in God, and in the efficacy of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. This was evident not only from what he said, and from the testimonies he bore to audiences we met, but by what he constantly radiated in his daily conversations and associations. His keen sense of humor was equally outstanding, but I would say it was more reserved than brilliant, more suggestive than poignant, as was illustrated in his answer to an Eastern lady who on one occasion asked, "Are all your children boys, Mr. Hinckley?" "All but ten" was the prompt but genial reply.
Inheritance, environment, and self-effort are three important factors that shape and make men's lives. All three of these influences combined favorably in molding President Hinckley's character.
HIS was a noble heritage. His father could have said to his sons, and in different words undoubtedly did say to them, what we find in David Livingston's legacy: "My lads, I have looked back through our history as far as I could find it, and I have never found a dishonest man in all the line. I want you to understand that you inherit good blood; you have no excuse for doing wrong. My lads, be honest." President Hinckley has added luster to his worthy ancestry.
PRESIDENT HINCKLEY'S environment from boyhood to manhood kept him close to nature and to his fellowmen. His home
 
training and companionship in youth taught him early in life the value of self-control as contrasted with looseness and self-indulgence. On the ranch in the bright sunshine, or at night as he lay under the glittering stars, he learned from observation and practical experience that the law of compensation and the law of retribution are as constant as the law of gravitation, and that cause and effect are continuously operative. His keen observation among men taught him that sin and sorrow are inseparable, as also are virtue and happiness. Consequently by self-effort he devoted his youth and early manhood to the cultivation of those cardinal virtues which contribute to the fullest life. He cherished honor as he prized life itself. He was courageous, temperate, loyal and reverent—qualities which contribute to nobility of soul.
Paraphrasing a tribute once paid to George Washington, we can say truly President Hinckley was sound at heart, and "speaking ever from the level of his character, and always ready to substantiate opinions with deeds; a man without any morbid egotism or pretension or extravagance; simple, modest, dignified, incorruptible; never giving advice which events did not endorse as wise, never lacking fortitude to bear calamities which resulted from his advice being overruled."
Men of such sterling worth are the veritable bulwarks of society. The world is better for their having lived, and poorer when they are taken from it.
IN the home President Hinckley was respected and beloved as a devoted husband and honored father. In the community he was looked upon as a practical, progressive builder. In his friendships, he was true and loyal. As an ambassador of truth, and as an Apostle of the Lord, he was unwavering in his testimony of the living Christ.