(they laugh) (Curtain) A Secret Something Whispers By Isaac B. Ball ALMOST all Latter-day Saints A have learned to love from infancy the old familiar poem and hymn, O My Father, in which are found these words, "Yet oft-times a secret something Whispers, 'You're a stranger here;' The lines of the illumined English poet, William Wadsworth, are also often quoted, lines which begin, "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting; The Soul that rises with us, our life's Star, Hath had elsewhere its setting And cometh from afar." But it seems entirely possible that most of us are not acquainted with the interesting fact that the eminent American poet, James Russell Lowell, in one of his inspired writings refers to a vague and ghostly ''something" which stirred deep feelings within him so that he cried, "Sometimes a breath floats by me, An odor from dreamland sent, That makes the ghost seem nigh me Of a splendor that came and went." When you read Lowell's full quotation you see that he had equally clear intimations of immortality and a sense of a former holy habitation where our spirits did once in truth reside. It may therefore be of some interest and of some value to here set down for contrast and for whatever use the reader may wish to make ot them the three famous and clearest poetic expressions of that haunting "hunch" that possesses almost all of us at some enlightened moment of a fore-existence in some farforgotten past. Of these three it may in all fairness and kindliness be said that the Utah poetess, Eliza R. Snow, seems to have stated her intimations in such a crystal and convincing manner as is not approached by the two poets of wider A SECRET SOMETHING WHISPERS by Isaac B. Ball 95 acclaim. But in saying this we are in duty bound to add that she alone of the three favored ones enjoyed the high privilege to have had her own whispering, secret "something" confirmed, inspired and enlarged by a close personal association with Joseph Smith, the American Prophet, one of the world's greatest Seers, to whom these dim whisperings, which to the poetic nature were but mystic intimations, were subjects of heavenly visions and prophetic revelations from the Father to the children of men. We shall begin therefore with the familiar Mormon classic, O My Father, "For a wise and glorious purpose Thou hast placed me here on earth And withheld the recollection Of my former friends and birth; Yet oft-times a secret something Whispers, 'You're a stronger here.' And I felt that I had wandered From a more exalted sphere." And while this melody of word and thought is still lilting itself through the harp strings of your mind will you attend to these sweet strains from the Ode to Immortality, by William Wordsworth, "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting; The Soul that rises with us, our life's Star, Hath had elsewhere its setting And cometh from afar; Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory do we come From God who is our home." Now that you are in the mood and current of this fine theme I joyfully bring you the soul-searching phrases of our beloved Lowell,— Lowell, our greatest American man of letters in variety of theme, power, and force,—Lowell, who gave us his Columbus, The Present Crisis, The Vision of Sir Launfal, and who now in the poem, In the Twilight, voices for us that which many feel but so few can express, his intimation that man was in the beginning with God, "Sometimes a breath floats by me, An odor from Dreamland sent, That makes the ghost seem nigh me Of a splendor that came and went, Of a life lived somewhere, I know not In what diviner sphere, Of memories that stay not and go not, Like music once heard by an ear That cannot forget or reclaim it, A something so shy it would shame it To make it a show, A something too vague, could I name it, For others to know, As if I had lived it or dreamed it, As if I had acted or schemed it, Long ago!" HE contrast between these three is marked and distinct. Wordsworth is contemplating the babe and youth whom, he sees, come into life trailing clouds of divinity until it is all but lost in the world-blinded adult. Lowell is stirred by lovely glimmerings of a splendor and a life he felt he had lived somewhere in some diviner sphere, memories indistinct but unforgettable. Eliza R. Snow is uttering an invocation to the heavenly Father and Mother. She alone comprehends that the relationship in that happier estate was as real as the relationship that exists between any father and son or daughter on earth, that man's spirit is actually the offspring of Deity and that the proper mode of address to Deity is the Christ-taught phrase— "Our Father who art in Heaven." We shall leave the reader to answer whether any of the three except the Utah poetess could have penned with clearness and conviction the last sublime verse of O My Father, "When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you."