The Longest Journey
By Joseph L. Blaine
"WELL, young woman, are you glad you're married?" Elaine stood in the curve of her tall husband's arm, leaning her shining dark head lightly against his shoulder. They were looking at their wedding presents. Dishes, vases, silverware, linen, etc., were piled on the dresser, on chairs and peeking out of boxes in the corner of their bed room. Peter and Elaine were going to live with Peter's mother.
"Really, Elaine," Peter had said, "It would be more than foolish for us to buy a place of our own and leave mother alone in that big house. Father deeded the place to me before he died, but mother holds the deeds as long as she lives. You won't mind, will you? She is old and it would be pretty hard for her to live alone."
Elaine had agreed, although that had been the one shadow on their otherwise perfect marriage. Peter was everything she had dreamed of for her ideal man. She gloried in the strength and cleanness of his splendid, young manhood. She was so proud to be his wife. It was easy to see that he was admired and respected by young and old, alike, in the little community in which he lived.
A dear friend had said, "Oh, Elaine, if you value your happiness at all, don't, for goodness sakes, try to live with your husband's mother! Our first months of marriage were perfect, then we moved in with Edward's mother. You know how things are with us now!"
Elaine did know, and it sent a little chill over the wealth of happiness that filled her days. She had laughed, however, and said, gaily, "Oh, surely, I can get along with just one poor, old, lonesome woman. She's awfully sweet, really, and she must be ever so nice to have a son as grand as Peter!"
Now, she said, looking a little thoughtfully at the presents, "Where shall we put them, Peter?"
"Oh, we'd just better box them up now, I guess. Mother has plenty of everything."
"We might just as well not have anything of our own," Elaine said quietly. She had tried to say it ever so lightly, but somehow her disappointment sounded, all too plainly, in the quiet words.
Peter turned quickly to look at her. Then he walked over to the bed and sat heavily down on the edge of it. Elaine, all repentance, flew after him and putting one arm around his neck, said breathlessly, "Don't feel badly. I didn't mean anything."
The possibility that Elaine would not like to live in his Mother's home had never once entered his mind. He really loved the old home and it was wonderful to have his two dearest ones together in it.
"You don't like to live here!" grieved Peter.
"Of course I do, Peter, dear. Of course I do. I'd be happy anywhere with you," Elaine said quickly.
FOR three weeks Elaine was sole mistress of the big house. Peter's mother had gone to visit with his sister, Martha, who had a new baby. Before leaving, she had told
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 97
Elaine that she might do the spring cleaning, while she was away.
Somehow, the cleaning of the strange, big, house, with all its enlarged pictures and its wealth of bric-a-brac, seemed the hardest task she had ever tried to do. She was afraid that she might do things wrong and she hadn't realized how tired she was from the three years of teaching school and helping care for her mother's home and the large amount of church work that she had done. Always she had loved to work in the church and being willing and capable, one task after another had been given her including several responsible positions in the different organizations. She had given her best to every task and responsibility and had counted each one a privilege and an opportunity, but now, with all of it, and the help she had given at home and teaching school, she was so tired. If only it could have been their own little home that she was to clean, how joyful the task would have been.
THE morning Peter's mother came home, bringing Martha and her two children with her for a visit, Elaine was still in bed. For the first time Peter had prepared his own breakfast.
"You stay in bed today, honey, I don't like the sound of that cold," he had said, tenderly, when she had started to get up.
The deserted breakfast table showed plainly that a man had fixed the breakfast and eaten it alone. Elaine felt that Peter's mother and sister saw and disapproved, although they greeted her warmly. Peter came bounding in when he came from the farm.
"Hello, mother! Hello, there, Martha! Well, if it isn't great to see you! How's the new edition?" he cried, kissing them and laughing over the new baby.
DURING the weeks that followed, it seemed to Elaine that she never saw her husband alone. She learned to dread to hear, "It is none of my business, of course, but if I were you—"
She knew that she seemed only a child to Peter's mother, who was really old enough to be her grandmother. If only she wasn't always so firm and so kind and so sure that with all her years and experience, she knew best and it was her duty to tell Elaine how to do everything.
"It really seems very extravagant to me to use cold cream," she said one day, "when soap and water are just as good. That's all I've ever used."
Another day, when Elaine started to make a cake, she brought another recipe and said, "Use this recipe. I've always found it very good and it only calls for one egg."
That time Elaine said rather firmly, and much to her mother-in-law's surprise, "I'd rather use this one, Mother Hartford."
It was the first and one of the few times that Elaine didn't do exactly as Peter's mother said to do. She stood by the table and looked the impersonation of disapproval as Elaine broke three eggs into the batter. Elaine felt so nervous at being watched so closely that she was sure that she would do something wrong. She could have cried when the cake fell and Mother Hartford said, "It was too rich. There's no need of using three eggs. One egg makes as good a cake as anyone could ask for."
THE second ripple that disturbed the surface serenity was when Mother Hartford asked Elaine what she had done with the pictures that had hung on the walls of Peter's room and Elaine told her that she
 
had put them in the attic. Elaine had felt that she would scream if she had to look again at the dreadful prints in huge frames and Peter had taken them upstairs for her. Elaine saw her mother-in-law's lips tighten.
"They will be ruined, lying up there in the heat. We've had them up for years and years. You'd better hang them up again."
This time Elaine said, a little stubbornly, "I won't have those pictures on the walls of my room!"
Later Peter said, coldly, "It wasn't necessary to speak to mother like that."
"I'm sorry, dear, and I told her I was. I do wish we could buy a little home of our own. I feel like an outsider here. Your mother has her way of doing things and it's a good way, I know, but I'd like to do things my way, once in a while."
Suddenly she was weeping in his arms and he was kissing her and saying, "Don't mind mother because she tells you how to do things. She's only trying to help you. She really loves you a lot. We both seem like kids to her. She was over forty when I was born you know."
MARTHA had visited with her mother and Peter and Elaine about five weeks and Elaine resented more and more that she and Peter were never alone. If only they could get away for an hour or so together.
One morning Peter came in to say that he had to go up to the springs to change the water and he thought he'd better go in the car.
"Oh, Mother Hartford, do you mind if I go?" Elaine cried eagerly. Jerking off her kitchen apron and hanging it behind the door, she was off, smoothing her hair as she ran. An hour alone with Peter! It would be a life-saver. A nerve-saver at least! She squeezed herself up close against him and smiled happily into his face.
Her smile vanished, quickly, when she saw the cold fury there.
"Why, Peter," she cried aghast, "Is anything the matter?"
"Honestly, Elaine, sometimes it seems as if you never think of anyone but yourself. Why couldn't you have asked mother and Martha to come along. They would have enjoyed the ride, too. Instead of that, you run off and leave them to get dinner! In spite of the aching hurt and biting disappointment, Elaine said, contritely, "Oh, Peter, I'm so sorry. Let's go back and get them."
"It is too late now, you should have thought of it sooner," Peter answered, coldly.
This was their first hour alone in weeks. It had meant so much to her and it meant only to him that she was thoughtless and unkind to his people. She had tried so hard to be good to them, to obey his mother and never to let them guess the feeling of resentment that lived in her heart because she couldn't know the joy of having Peter to herself, or of caring for a little home of their own.
WHEN Peter got out of the car to walk the remaining half mile to where he must change the water, she was desperately glad of the chance to be alone, so that she could cry. There was no one near and she could release the sobs that were choking her. In the midst of her unrestrained weeping, she thought she heard someone call, "Oh, Mrs. Hartford!" She lifted her flushed and tear stained face to meet the surprised
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 99
and concerned one of an old farmer who lived on the nearest farm.
"I thought this was Peter's car," he said, "Jim, my boy, is so sick that I came over to see if Peter would help me to administer to him."
"I'll send him over just as soon as he comes," Elaine said faintly, controlling her voice with an effort, "He is just up turning the irrigating stream. I'm so sorry about Jim."
AFTER Peter had returned from the farm house he took Elaine tenderly into his arms. "Oh, dearest, I'm so sorry I hurt your feelings. I love you so."
"Peter, dear, I've wanted so much, to be alone with you for a little while. We never are alone," she sobbed.
"I thought you'd like it too."
It was wonderful to be in his arms. Wonderful to have him understanding and his own dear self again.
IN August Elaine went home for a short visit. It was good to see her friends, good to see her dear mother and father, her brothers and sisters, but after she'd seen and talked to them for a couple of days, she started to long for Peter.
On the fifth day of her visit when she went down town to buy some things for her mother, she met a Mr. Warner from her new home town, who laughed and said, "Just on my way home. Want to come along?" He laughed still more at her eager, "Yes, oh, yes!"
Later as they were going through the mountains a few miles from Heber City, Mr. Warner said, "Why there's Peter's team. He must be farther up, getting wood."
"Are you sure it is his team? If you are, please let me out here!" Mr. Warner laughed again. These newlyweds! He waited until he saw the tall form of Peter wave his hat and start down the hill, as his young wife raced up it, then he set her suit case by the side of the road, smiled and waved, as she turned to call her thanks, and drove off.
In another moment Elaine felt the ecstasy of being in her tall husband's arms and hearing him say, between kisses, "Darling, I've been so lonesome without you!"
A FEW days after Elaine came home, Peter burned his arm and she wrapped it in wet soda. When his mother came in and was told what had happened, she cried, "Oh, soda is no good. Use salty butter." She quickly took off the bandage and applied the salty butter.
That night when Elaine cried about it, Peter said, "But, sweetheart, she does know best. She is lots older and has had a lot more experience than you have."
So the old feeling of being a useless outsider came back again.
PETER'S brother, Joe, moved into a new brick house and his old adobe one was for sale.
"Oh, dearest, please let's buy it! I can't bear living here any longer. Your mother is grand, but it is an old saying that no house on earth is big enough for two women. I know. We'd just love each other if we didn't live together. That house is near here, too, so she wouldn't be so lonesome."
"Why, Elaine, you don't want that old house. It's about to fall down," Peter teased, but he went to his brother and asked him about the house and Joe said he'd sell it for $600.00.
When Peter told Elaine that he
 
would buy the house if she really wanted it, she was delighted. She hurried to tell Peter's mother, who burst into tears, "I didn't think that I had treated you so badly that you'd want to get away. I've tried to be good to you," she wept.
"Why, Mother Hartford, you've been grand to me, but it would be such fun to fix up that place!"
"Fun!" Mother Hartford sniffed, "the old thing will fall down on you!"
Later Elaine saw Peter a few minutes alone. "Your mother cried when I told her," she said soberly, "We'll have to forget about moving, I can't bear to make her feel so badly."
A FEW days later, Peter awoke with a heavy cold and by afternoon he had a slight fever.
"I'll put on hot packs wrung out of mustard water and then rub your chest with Vapo rub and you'll soon be all right," Elaine said, bringing in the towels and the hot mustard water.
"No, no!" cried Mother Hartford. "That wet would be sure to cause pneumonia! For goodness sakes, don't do that!"
"You'd better not do that," Peter said, "mother's doctored colds for years."
The old familiar feeling of being useless and futile descended upon her again. The afternoon dragged on and on.
On Christmas night Joe came in to see how Peter was feeling and as the two brothers were talking, with their mother listening and joining in the conversation, Elaine slipped into the cold parlor. It was so silly to be always crying, she thought fiercely, as the tears ran down her face. She wasn't at all like herself anymore. She should have been called Niobe, for she was forever dissolving into tears. She heard a step outside the door and hurried noiselessly over to the window, to stand looking unseeingly out.
Peter's mother came into the moonlit dimness of the room. "Whatever are you doing in here," she asked curiously.
"Oh just looking at the moon. It is wonderful tonight," Elaine answered faintly. Really she hadn't been aware that there was a moon, but she was determined that her mother-in-law shouldn't know that she was weeping. She supposed that she would think that she was either crazy or heartless, standing here in the bitter cold of the seldom used parlor and looking at the moon, while her husband lay ill in their bed room.
"You'd better forget about the moon and come out where it is warm," Mother Hartford said shortly. "You'll be chilled to the marrow!"
THE next morning Elaine's head ached and felt as heavy as lead. Peter was much better and in a few days was over his cold, but Elaine kept getting worse. One night she awoke feeling very hot and with a burning pain in her chest. She aroused Peter. He dressed quickly, awakened his mother and rushed out to call the doctor.
The doctor looked grave, said something about pneumonia, and got to work. Mother Hartford worked with him, quickly and skillfully. Once he said, "It is fine to have someone to help who knows just how to do things."
"I've been around pneumonia before and I know that it takes work to get the best of it," Mother Hartford answered, her hands flying as she talked.
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 101
DURING the weeks of her sickness and convalescence, Mother Hartford was tireless in caring for Elaine, who realized that her own mother could not have cared for her more intelligently or more tenderly. The strength and calm and sweetness of Peter's mother made her feel grateful and ashamed. No wonder Peter was so fine. He had such a splendid mother.
"If I hadn't lived so close to her, I could have seen how wonderful she was long ago," she said to herself.
THE summer was hot and Elaine, well and strong again, thanks to the nursing of Peter's mother, picked English currants and gooseberries and helped to can fruit. One day as she and her mother-in-law sat in the kitchen peeling peaches, Mother Hartford said, "You must have had lots of fruit in American Fork."
"We did have quite a bit. Why?"
"Because no one who had had to be careful of fruit, would peel away such thick peelings as you do."
Elaine had thought that she would never again feel antagonistic towards her mother-in-law, after the loving care that she had given her. She knew that she literally owed her life to this rather stern and yet splendid woman, but as the days went by, little things grew big again and seemed to be mountains in the way of her happiness.
ONE of her duties was to clean the big, dark parlor every week and she always pulled the blinds to the top of the windows and opened the door wide. As the stately room, with its enlarged pictures and wealth of bric-a-brac, brightened in the flood of unaccustomed sunshine, Elaine's spirits seemed to grow lighter too. Mother Hartford always discovered the open windows and door, and hastened to close the door and pull the blinds down to a scant six inches from the bottom.
"Really, Elaine," she said one day, "you have faded the walls and carpet and everything in this room. Even the picture frames are falling to pieces. The sun and wind soon dry the glue until it is no good. I've tried for years to keep this room nice!"
Elaine didn't answer, but she cried when she told Peter about it. "I'm going home, Peter and stay there until we can get a home of our own, I'm of no use here. Your mother can do everything for you better than I can," she sobbed.
Peter laughed, then teased, then pleaded and finally got angry, but Elaine was determined.
"If you cared at all for me, you wouldn't want to leave me because mother treats you as if you were her own daughter. You know she loves you after the way she cared for you when you were sick. How can you want to leave her here alone?"
"She is well and strong and she'll be happier managing her own home, in her own way, instead of always having some one in it, doing things in a way that displeases her. She was wonderful to me when I was sick and I appreciate it, but I won't live here any more."
PETER took Elaine home on Friday. His mother thought that she was just going home for a visit. They talked very little during the ride to American Fork. After they had visited a while with Elaine's family, the two talked alone for a few minutes in the big, homelike living room.
"Elaine, you know I can't afford a new house and there is no need
 
of it when that one is going to be mine. Why can't you be reasonable?"
"I am reasonable, Peter. Why can't you see how impossible it is for me to stay there? Our marriage would have been perfect if I could have cared for you and our own little home. I can't stay there, although I love you until I feel as if I couldn't bear to be away from you."
"If you really loved me, you wouldn't mind that mother tries to help you with little things. The trouble is really all in your mind. Now listen, you stay here a week, or two weeks, and then come back and everything will be fine."
"It won't be fine and it won't work. I simply can't go back there, Peter."
"Nonsense! Of course you can. Don't be silly, Elaine. It is not half so bad as you think it is."
Both were talking now in cold, hard, biting tones.
"I'm not being silly, in fact for the first time since we were married, I'm being wise. It seems impossible that you can't see it," Elaine answered.
"Well, I must go," Peter said, still more coldly. "You've made your decision. I'm sorry. If you really cared for me it would have been a different one!"
ELAINE stood clinging to the door knob after Peter had gone. He hadn't even kissed her! Peter gone! Gone out of her life perhaps. Surely he didn't care for her, didn't love her as she loved him, or he must have seen how hard, how impossible it was for her to live in his mother's home. The hours seemed to drag endlessly over her sleepless eyes before she finally fell into a troubled sleep.
The days moved by like bad dreams. She knew that her father and mother were worried and felt that there was some trouble between Peter and her. She couldn't talk about it. It didn't seem loyal to Peter. Always before, she had enjoyed being in American Fork, but now, it seemed the most dreadful town in the world. She hated to go to church, dreaded to walk down town and avoided meeting people. She felt that everyone must see the unhappiness in her face and be curious about it.
Reading had always been her delight, but stories and articles did not seem to make sense now. Two weeks, that seemed to her aching heart to be a lifetime, passed and Peter hadn't written even a card.
One day she picked up a copy of "The American Poetry Journal" and aimlessly turned the pages. She started reading a very short poem, "Travel Diary," by Elinor Lennen. In which the writer affirmed that her longest journey was from closed door to empty chair "the night you said goodbye."
She read the four short lines over and over. At last she got scissors, clipped the poem and wrote her name across the bottom. She slipped it into an envelope that she quickly addressed to Peter. When she had posted it, a heavy load seemed to have been lifted from her tired heart. Peter would surely get the little poem next day by noon or shortly after. Tomorrow night she would be in his dear arms again, telling him that anything was preferable to the agony of being away from him.
Elaine awoke early, feeling that something wonderful was going to happen to her that day. Peter would surely come when he got the poem. She went about the house singing all
THE LONGEST JOURNEY 103
morning, but as the afternoon failed to bring Peter, fear grew in her heart. Time is agonizingly long to those who wait. Her eyes ached from watching the road and her heart ached with the longing and fear in it.
FOUR days dragged endlessly by. On Friday a neighbor brought in a copy of the little Heber City paper. Elaine read that Mr. Peter Hartford and his mother were in Salt Lake City, visiting her daughter, Mrs. Martha Stanton and family.
Rather breathlessly she told her mother that she would like to walk out to her father's farm about a half mile northeast of town.
"The walk will do you good," her mother said. The mother knew that something was wrong between Elaine and Peter. She could see and feel her child's suffering, but she wisely decided that it was best to pretend that everything was as usual and to pray silently and earnestly that everything would soon be all right.
Elaine walked, her feet keeping time to the heavy beating of her heart.
ON reaching the farm she sat down behind the friendly willows and let the tears fall unheeded down her cheeks. Suddenly two strong arms were tight around her and Peter's beloved voice was saying, "Darling, darling," over and over. Her heart was beating slowly, suffocatingly with the almost unbearable joy. She was alive again!
"Just got your letter when we got back from Salt Lake this afternoon. I raced down here. Your mother told me that you had started to walk out here. Oh, dearest, you did miss me!"
"Miss you!" she cried, clinging to him, her wet face pressed against his shoulder, "Oh, Peter, I'll live anywhere just so long as you are there!"
"How about living in Salt Lake then? I've landed a peach of a job. Would you like to have that home of your own up there?"
"Oh, Peter!"
YEARS after as the deep and sincere love grew in her heart for her splendid mother-in-law, it seemed as if the mother-in-law of her first two years of marriage had been another woman. Surely the jolly, happy, helpful and lovable woman that was Peter's mother and the children's adored grandmother, couldn't have been the woman who had once seemed so "bossy." It was hard, Elaine thought, being a mother-in-law. If you wanted to help or if you made a suggestion it always antagonized the daughters-in-law. The only solution was for every family to have its own home.
"Men don't understand how women feel about their homes," Mother Hartford said one day, in the slow, serious way Elaine loved. "Every woman needs a home of her own to putter around and manage. Why even the Bible says that a man should leave father and mother and cleave unto his wife!"
"Mother Hartford, you are always so sweet and wise and right. I hope I'll never have to live with any of my daughters-in-law when the time comes that I'll have some. I don't understand how I could have helped seeing how hard it was for you to have a thoughtless girl come into your well-managed home and upset things. I surely love and admire you now."
Elaine stooped swiftly and lightly kissed the pleasant face of her husband's mother.