Happenings
By Annie Wells Cannon
FEBRUARY—Good citizenship is proof sufficient of patriotism.
PRINCESS JULIANA of Orange, only child of Queen Wilhelmina, and heir apparent to the throne, has met and won her "Prince Charming." The royal wedding which occurred January 7, was one of splendor and rejoicing; a brilliant event of promise, like a star in the sky over war-clouded Europe.
THE new Queen of England, who before her marriage to the Duke of York, was Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon, daughter of a Scottish Earl, stands for what the English people like best in women—dignity, friendliness, conservatism and devotion to home. She has graced her place in the royal family with stateliness and tact.
MRS. REVA BECK BOSONE, first woman judge in Utah, is making good her declaration: to impose relatively heavy sentences for reckless and drunken driving.
BETTY JAYNES, 15-year-old Chicago girl, made a successful debut in opera this season as Mimi in "La Boheme."
ROSA PONSELLE, internationally famed opera singer, was recently married to a Baltimore business man. "Her art is supreme, she belongs to a great public, it is your duty to make her happy," admonished the jurist to the young husband.
VIRGINIA C. GILDERSLEEVE, Dean of Barnard College, and only woman member of the Judicial Council of New York State, received the award for Eminent Achievement for 1936 from the American Woman's Association.
FRAU ELSA EINSTEIN died last December, a loss to the world, for it is said that her watchfulness made the great scientist able to carry on his research free from worry and trouble.
MARGARET EVANS PRYOR, 95, Caroline C. Harris, 91, Caroline W. Humphreys, 85, and Emma Spencer Jacobs, 74, are notable Utah women who died last winter. All of them were pioneers and rendered marked service to their fellow men in their respective communities.
VERA BRITTAIN, author of "Testament of Youth," giving a picture of the wreckage of a generation by the World War, in her new book "Honorable Estate," presents a wider canvas covering a period of four decades with emphasis on the changing status of women, particularly wives.
MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, America's greatest living suffragist, at the age of 78 is as optimistic as ever. She says, "I am neither disappointed nor encouraged about the participation of women in public affairs. They are behaving just as I thought they would."
JANET BEITH, who wrote the $20,000 prize novel, "No Second Spring," and Phyllis Bottome, author of "Private Worlds," have both published new novels this last year, "Sand Castle" and "Level Crossing" respectively.