EDITORIALS 113 Susan B. Anthony FEBRUARY 15th is the 117th anniversary of the birth of Susan B. Anthony, one of the most indefatigable and efficient workers for equal rights for women that has ever lived. When she began her work, only men had the franchise; men had control of the children; men dominated the platform. For over fifty years, Miss Anthony gave her entire time, all her money, all her energy to secure the franchise for women. Her biographer says, "Never for one short hour, has the cause of women been forgotten or put aside for any other object. Never a single tie has been formed, either of affection or of business, which would interfere with this supreme purpose. Never a speech has been given, a trip taken, a visit made, a letter written, in all this half century, that has not been done directly in the interest of this one object. There has been no thought of personal comfort, advancement, or glory; the self-abnegation, the self-sacrifice have been absolute?they have been unparalleled." She lectured in all parts of the country and wrote articles without number. She organized and conducted campaigns. She was present at 29 out of 31 annual conventions of the National Woman's Suffrage Association. She drafted resolutions and circulated petitions. She besieged Congress annually for forty years. She addressed Congressional committees. She raised and expended large sums of money for the cause. Ida H. Harper truly said: "Every girl who now enjoys a college education, every woman who has the chance of earning an honest living in whatever sphere she chooses; every wife who is protected by Jaw in the possession of her person, her property; every mother who is blest with the custody and control of her own children?owes these sacred privileges to Susan B. Anthony beyond all others." To her, too, beyond all others, is due the honor in bringing to women the right of citizenship. Miss Anthony's picture now appears on a new stamp commemorating the 16th anniversary of the Woman's Suffrage Amendment. Women should call for these stamps and every time they use them remember the debt they owe to this good woman.