for a time, of the great European war, in developments which likely will reach culmination within the Turkish dominions.

Greece refused the offer of the island of Cyprus as an inducement to enter the European war. To an outsider such offer looks like a diplomatic game ultimately to rid the Grecians of a pro-German ruler. The ways of diplomats are devious.

An earthquake shook up California, Oregon, Washington, Nevada and Utah in the latter part of October. The principal damage was the caving in of portions of railway tunnels along the line of the Southern Pacific in Nevada.

The Armenian massacres in Turkey have thus far claimed 1,860,000 victims, according to official reports. Turkey and her allies claim that the Turkish manner of suppressing Armenian Christians is nobody's business outside of Turkey, but other nations take a decidedly different view.

Equal suffrage was defeated at the election in New Jersey in October, but that the issue is yet very much alive is shown in the fact that following the New Jersey election came an equal suffrage parade in New York City, where 40,000 women marched in line.

China has tried a republic as a form of government for the Mongolian, but finding the masses not yet developed to the status of popular rule, threatens to go back to a monarchy, which, however, will be much more liberal than heretofore in that country.

Mexico's troubles seem to be settling down for a time with


the recognition by the United States of a government there, and an embargo through this country on shipments of munitions of war to all others. A widespread belief has obtained in this country that the placing of an embargo on war munitions from this country would settle the Mexican disturbances.

The Jewish colony at Clarion, Sanpete County, is being abandoned, it is said, owing to insufficiency of the crops raised to meet the needs of the colonists. An effort is in progress to locate the colonists in Davis county, immediately north of Salt Lake City.

The new tax laws in Utah have been a theme of much discussion among county and state officials of late. The people will discuss these more thoroughly when experience demonstrates whether they mean an increase or a lessening of the present heavy tax burden.

Emma Lucy Gates was accorded a most cordial reception upon her appearance in grand opera, when she returned to her Utah home. The unanimous verdict of good judges is that Miss Gates deserves commendation not only as a great artist among the world's prima donnas, but as an accomplished actress.

Baseball seems to have attracted more general attention in Utah the past summer than any other form of amusement. In the Pacific Coast League, with six first-rate teams competing, Salt Lake obtained second place, winning 107 games out of 196 played. San Francisco held first place.

Wireless conveyance of the human voice over a distance of nearly 5,000 miles may be regarded as one of the great discoveries of the age. This was accomplished recently in communications between Washington, D. C., and Paris, France, also between Washington and the Hawaiian Islands.

New Testaments in excess of 1,000,000 copies have been sent from London to Germany by the British Bible Society since the breaking out of the war sixteen months ago. Thus far the printed word has not shown much control over the ammunition wagon, but it may do so in time.

Moral training of children is a vital factor in the Church schools, as pointed out by President Joseph F. Smith at the recent October Conference in Salt Lake City, when he also referred to the excessive burden of taxation that is being placed on the people of Utah for the maintenance of schools which give no re-

CURRENT TOPICS. 543

ligious training, and in that respect are deficient in supplying one of the greater necessities of child life.

The Immigration Service has received a setback by a decision of the United States Supreme Court that aliens cannot be debarred from this country because of business depression here. The decision will be a most salutary one if it shall impress the immigration service department of government with the idea of reasonable enforcement of law rather than interpretations based on racial or religious prejudices.

Waning prejudice against Utah was strongly in evidence recently in St. Louis, when Frank J. Cannon was refused the use of large church edifices there to slander the "Mormon" people; the refusal being due to the fact that leading business men and others are weary of hearing sensational falsehoods against Utah, and themselves have learned the truth by visits to this State.

Miss Edith Cavell, an English nurse in Belgium, who has nursed wounded Germans, Belgians and English during months of the war, saving the lives of several of each nationality, and who aided some English and Belgian soldiers to escape, was executed by the German military authorities, who, when appealed to by the American and Spanish ministers, made untruthful statements to the latter, it is officially reported. A German woman in England, convicted of the same grade of offense, was sentenced to six months imprisonment. The German officials justify the execution of Miss Cavell on the ground of rules of war, while their opponents denounce the act as despicable barbarism.

Preparedness for war has come suddenly to the front in the United States, in strong contrast with the ultra-peace movement of a twelvemonth since. That this preparedness, instead of being gradual, should be a great and immediate expensive movement, costing the people additional hundreds of millions of dollars all at once, seems puzzling, in view of the fact that all the large nations are so occupied and exhausted by the present European conflict that the United States is more immune from attack now than for many decades. With a gradual, rather than sudden, and consequently a less exhausting preparation, this country would be ready in time to cope with any possible situation abroad, and also would get the advantage of scientific improvements which must develop after the outcome of the present contest in its re-arrangement of national relations.

In the Kitchen Laboratory.
By Hazel Love Dunford.

THE CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.

Thoughtful people are beginning to think we are in danger of losing the spirit of Christmas, that most blessed of festivals, by "doing" it to death. The funny papers have even taken it up, making ridiculous stories of it. However, women "tired to death," men in debt, and children in tears, are stern realities.

This is the greatest, the most blessed, day of the year, and it depends on the womanliness of true women to make it the most enjoyable, by means of simple sincerity. The true meaning of the day, its lessons and its significance, are being lost under a mass of sham and rubbish, while the light of our dear Savior is ever shining, to lead us home again.

Perhaps no courtesy is more abused, or will it be more polite to say, so little understood? as the art of Christmas giving, and Christmas receiving.

Christmas day is a busy day for the mother, especially if there are to be guests in the house. The common custom of a late breakfast, an early dinner, and a late supper has little to recommend it, and much could be said against it. Where there are children, the stockings have been hung in the chimney for the visit of Santa Claus — consequently there is always an early awakening. Breakfast should then be served not later than eight o'clock, so the work of preparation and cleaning away can be done early. Have a very simple lunch at one, and dinner at five or six. If, however, breakfast is late, have but two meals, serving the dinner at two or three.

Make your table as much of a happy surprise as possible, in decoration, in gifts, etc. The meals should be simple and wholesome. It is in the nature of a disgrace to have sick children the day after Christmas, because of allowing them unwonted "stuffing," and foolish gormandizing on candy and rich foods.

In order to save work, the mother should prepare her food a day or two in advance.

In the past two years, it has become an accepted fact that Christmas gifts sap the energies, purse, and love of men and women, in need of recuperation, rather than of increased strain. Instead of Christmas being a blessed season, it will thus become, if it has not already, a dreaded season.

Sincere simplicity, common sense, proper pride and delicacy of feeling, must come as a relief; wisdom, affection and love should prompt the gifts; good

IN THE KITCHEN LABORATORY. 545

judgment and wisdom should adapt them to the needs and circumstances of the recipient.

There are many simple things that might be done that show thought and love. Make your friend or neighbor a nice plum pudding — easily done — while you are making your own. Send her the recipe, if it is a favorite with you, or send her a nice basket of cookies. I am sure they will be acceptable. Be sure to send them early, so as to save your friend the trouble of making. A nice suet pudding can be wrapped and sent in the can, and needs only to be warmed. I know a busy woman who sends out over a dozen plum puddings to her friends, as she makes them easily, enjoys doing it, and prefers this form of remembrance to any other.

RECIPES.

Italian Fig Pudding.
3/4 lb. figs chopped fine
1 c. chopped suet
2 c. stale bread crumbs
1/2 c. salt
1/2 t. soda
1/2 c. milk
2 eggs
1/2 c. sugar
1/3 c. molasses
1/2 nutmeg

Rub suet until creamy, then add figs. Soak the bread crumbs in milk, add egg well beaten, molasses, sugar, flour, nutmeg. Combine mixture, turn into buttered molds and steam three hours. Serve with a rich sauce.

Date Pudding.
2 eggs
1/4 c. butter
1 t. baking powder
1 c. sugar
1/4 c. milk
Flour to make thick batter

Stir in 1 cup dates, cut in quarters, fill molds half full and steam two hours.

ECONOMY PUDDING.

Any desired fruit may be used — a little jam left over, or a few cherries, not enough for a meal; or five cents worth of cranberries, or a little stewed pie plant. Put this into a sauce pan and add enough sugar to sweeten and enough water, so it will not burn. One cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, a little salt, well sifted. Now carefully add water or skim milk to make soft dough. Drop by spoonfuls on fruit, cover closely and set on back of the stove and let steam one-half hour. Serve with cream.