[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Hymn-Singing Project]

Hymn-Singing Project for 1943 RECOGNIZING the desirability of the continuation of the Church-wide hymn-singing project during this period of stress and unrest, the General Music Committee has selected the following list of hymns from the Deseret Sunday School Songs for use during 1943: January?Come, Thou Fount of Every Blessing, page 216. February?O Thou Kind and Gracious Father, page 33. March?How Gentle God's Commands, page 287. April?Behold, 'Tis Eventide, page 13. May?Parting Hymn, page 38. June?Prayer Is The Soul's Sincere Desire, page 95. July?He Died! The Great Redeemer Died, page 247. August?O God, the Eternal Father, page 192. September?God of Our Fathers, page 283. October?Jesus, the Very Thought of Thee, page 288. November?Who Are These Arrayed in White, page 9. December?Christmas Carol, page 101.
New Books
RECREATION IN THE HOME, a new book published by the auxiliary organizations of the Church, is dedicated to fathers, mothers, and children in Latter-day Saint homes. The foreword states: "With the rapid change in the world's way of doing things, the home has of late years been increasingly neglected... But it is evident from conditions now prevailing that human life would be greatly benefited if much that tends toward the development of character and the stability of moral and social life were returned to the home. Recreation is one of these important factors.... The present situation of world tribulation and unrest will of necessity drive families closer together to find in the home their joys.... The new book is planned primarily to aid Latter-day Saint families in their home recreational activities, and is fertile in suggestions which may be applied to recreation outside the home. It is divided into twelve chapters as follows: The Church and Recreation; Music in the Home; Drama in the Home; Dancing in the Home; Reading?Story Telling?Conversation; Games For All Occasions; Hobbies; Special Days and Events; Fun and Food; Family Manners at Home and Abroad; and The Romance of Genealogy. This book answers a long-felt need in Latter-day Saint homes. The wide variety of material is excellent throughout, showing discriminating judgment in its selection. The material is practical for use in the average Latter-day Saint home, and is adaptable to many occasions and to all ages. Instructions are clearly given, and the book is attractively and interestingly illustrated. Recreation in the Home should be welcomed by Latter-day Saint mothers. It may be purchased from Relief Society General Board, 28
Bishop's Building, or from general headquarters of any of the Church auxiliary organizations. Price 25 cents per copy.
A NEW WITNESS FOR CHRIST IN AMERICA?The Book of Mormon, by Dr. Francis W. Kirkham, is expected off the press during December. This book is a revision and amplification of an earlier publication by the same author, entitled "Source Material Concerning the Origin of the Book of Mormon." The new volume, a 420 page book, contains important historical data concerning the Book of Mormon. The work is the result of many years of study and research in the libraries of the United States. It may be purchased from Francis W. Kirkham, 109
West 2nd South, Salt Lake City, or Zion's Printing Co., Independence, Missouri. Price $1.50 postpaid. Special reduced price of $1.00 to L. D. S. Missionaries in stakes and mission field and to men in U. S. Armed service.
Separate Magazine Cover Prints are Available
THREE plaques, "Pioneering," "Education," and "Benevolence," designed by Avard Fairbanks for the proposed Relief Society centennial memorial campanile, have been reproduced consecutively on the September, October, and November covers of the Magazine. The December cover features the Nauvoo Temple bell which is to be housed in the campanile. All four covers have been printed in the same colors to allow for mounting in panel form. Separate prints in panel form will be available in December, at twenty-five cents a panel.
 ?DECEMBER 1942
Magazine Deliveries Late
DUE to circumstances incident to the war, such as labor shortages, recent issues of the Magazine, particularly the November issue, were received from the press very late, making deliveries to subscribers correspondingly late. The Magazine sincerely regrets delays in delivery, recognizing that subscribers expect their Magazines about the same time each month and are no doubt at a loss to understand why Magazines are not received. Great effort is being made to have future issues reach subscribers as early as possible each month, but where delays cannot be controlled, the indulgence of subscribers is earnestly solicited.
New Feature
THE Magazine is pleased to announce the introduction of a new feature "Woman's Sphere" beginning with the January 1943 issue. Under this heading there will appear each month one page of items of special interest to women, featuring particularly achievements of women of national and international prominence. Special recognition accorded women in general will also be included. The page is to be prepared by Ramona W. Cannon, and will be continued for several months. Mrs. Cannon, the wife of Joseph J. Cannon, first assistant superintendent of the Y. M. M. I. A., and daughter of Elizabeth S. Wilcox, a former member of the Relief Society General Board, is well known to Magazine readers through her contributions to the periodical. She has traveled extensively, having presided over the British Mission Relief Societies during 1935-37. She has always been interested in the advancement of women and has maintained familiarity with names and accomplishments of women leaders in various fields. She has a rich background in literature, and is an able writer. "Woman's Sphere" should prove an interesting addition to the Magazine.
Sample Copies of July Magazine Available
THE General Board has on hand a small surplus of the Relief Society Magazine for July 1942. These copies will be given without charge, so long as the supply lasts, to Relief Society officers or Magazine representatives who may wish them for sample copies. Send requests for the number desired to The Relief Society Magazine, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
NOTES TO THE FIELD 857
Silk and Nylon Salvage Program
THE general salvage section of the conservation division of the War Production Board initiated on November 16, 1942, a program for nation-wide collection of used hosiery. Silk and nylon are critically needed for the production of powder bags and other war materials. Collections will be continuous for the duration of the war. Collection centers are being set up in all retail stores having women's and misses' hosiery departments. Relief Society women are urged to support this program and to donate all worn and discarded hosiery of the following classifications:
a. All silk b. All nylon c. Mixture of silk and nylon d. Mixture of silk and rayon e. Mixture of nylon and rayon f. Mixture of silk and cotton g. Mixture of nylon and cotton
Please observe the following four points:
1. Be sure that all salvage hose are WASHED.
2. No garments other than silk and nylon HOSE are wanted.
3. Neither the donors nor the retail stores serving as collection depots receive any financial remuneration for the hose collected?this is a direct gift from the home to the fighting front.
4. It is not unpatriotic for stores to continue to sell the few new stocks of silk and nylon hose that are left. What is wanted for collection is all used hose that can be reclaimed for war production purposes.
Watch for announcements from your local salvage committee with respect to the salvage of silk and nylon hosiery, or make inquiry direct to your local salvage committee.
Supply of Magazine Binders Exhausted
THE General Board regrets to announce that the supply of Magazine binders is exhausted, and due to war conditions no more can be obtained at present.
Christmas for Robert
By Layton
Through all the glare of bomb and gun Whose bursts destroy the peace this Holy Night, There shines before us each and every one, The hope and peace of God's eternal light.
Government Specifications on Bed Linens
The following information with respect to Government specifications on bed linens, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, State Consumer Relations Officer, Office of Price Administration, will be found of interest to Relief Society women:
CONSUMERS may now buy bed sheets and pillowcases more wisely than ever before. Since March 2 of this year, manufacturers of these commodities have been required by the Office of Price Administration to manufacture and sell their products according to definite standards established by the Government. Since the job of the Office of Price Administration is to control prices, one might reasonably ask why it should issue an order requiring that a product be manufactured according to standard specifications. It came about this way. Early this year, the prices of bed linens were rising at an alarming rate, and it was necessary for the OPA to establish ceiling prices at the manufacturer level. At retail, the price is controlled by the General Maximum Price Regulation, and, therefore, the ceiling price for any particular store is the highest price charged by that store in March 1942. In attempting to set ceiling prices for manufacturers, however, it was discovered that there were so many variations in size, weight, thread, count, and the like, that it was impossible to set prices without setting literally hundreds of them on the products of many different manufacturers. Every housewife has had the same experience?she has gone into various stores looking at sheets and pillowcases with varying prices and brand names, and has been at a loss to know which was the best buy for her needs. Now, however, she may study the qualities of the various grades as established by the Government, and go to the store and ask for the "type" which will meet her needs best. The following chart gives the specifications which go to make up these "types":
Minimum Specifications Requirements, As Included in the Order
Type 180 | Type 140 | Type 128 | Type 112 | Back Print Filled | Cloth
Thread count per square inch (unbleached): 180 | 140 | 128 | 112 | 116
Weight per sq. yard in ounces: 3.6 | 4.6 | 4.0 | 3.7 | 3.2
Lighter weight yarns ? Warp: 60 | 70 | 55 | 45 | 42 Filling: 60 | 70 | 55 | 45 | 35
Width of hems ? Selvage: Tape | Tape | Tape | Tape | Plain Total width of thread hems (total for both ends): 4" | 4" | 4" | 4" | 4"
Stitches per inch: 14 | 14 | 14 | 14 | 12
Added sizing: 4% | 4% | 6% | 10% | 15%
Page 858
Weight per sq. Yard Tensile strength made from
GOVERNMENT SPECIFICATIONS ON BED LINENS
These are the minimum specifications (except in the case of "Print Cloth" Type D) for the various types of sheets made from "carded" cotton yarns. There is nothing to prevent the manufacturer from making his sheets better than required. Sheets that are made entirely from "combed" cotton yarns are excluded from the regulation. They are the higher priced "percales" and are an extra soft, premium-priced product. The order requires that the manufacturer attach a label to each sheet or pillowcase which states the following facts: (a) the type and size of the articles; (b) if the piece is a second, a statement to that effect; (c) if the article does not meet the minimum specifications, the term "substandard" must be used. Surveys conducted in Salt Lake City stores indicate that nearly all bed linens now in the hands of retailers bear labels indicating the type. Labels in some establishments also carry such information as the actual thread count, weight per yard, amount of sizing, etc. It should be noted that the consumer is always assured that the article will meet the minimum specifications for the particular type when it is so labeled. However, sheets may be above the minimum specifications, and where the label gives the information, the consumer can tell just how much better the sheet is than the minimum requirement for that particular type. Even when labels did not carry the detailed information, the sales people or department managers were usually able to supply the manufacturer's specifications. Following are statements regarding various types of sheets, with the specifications translated into non-technical language:
Type 180 Carded percale. Light weight. Fine yarns. Smooth texture. Good strength. Smallest amount of sizing. Initial cost?highest of this group.
Type 140 Heavy muslin. Strongest?probably most durable, good for extra hard wear. Smallest amount of sizing. Initial cost?less than Type 180, but highest of muslin group. Most expensive to launder if laundry is done commercially by weight.
Type 128 Medium weight muslin. Medium strength. Coarser weave, good for general use. Greater amount of sizing. Initial cost?medium.
Type 112 Light weight muslin. Less strong than Type 128. Coarser weave. Heavy sizing. Initial cost?low, may not be so low in final cost.
Back-filled Least strong. Has slightly higher thread count than Type 112, but because of low weight and low tensile strength and high percent of sizing will not give as much wear as Type 112. Lowest price. Often cut rather than torn to size.
Print-cloth Very light weight. Known by trade as "percale." Low strength. Usually finely woven, smooth texture considering price. Print-cloth is used for a limited variety of merchandise, particularly pillowcases and small sheets, such as crib sheets. Since the specifications given in the order are maximum rather than minimum specifications, the order requires that the actual construction features must be specified on the label. In this way the consumer has some guide by which to judge for himself what the probable value and wearing qualities will be.
FROM THE FIELD