[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: LiteraturePoetry of the]
882 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1942 
true  of  The  Song  of  Solomon,  a 
great  love  song  with  wholesome  les- 
sons on  purity  and  fidelity,  and,  ac- 
cording to  some  critics,  with  deep 
symbolic  meaning.  The  Psalms  are 
lyrics  of  devotion.  The  Proverbs  are 
terse  maxims  crystallized  from  the 
experience  of  the  race.  The  rhapso- 
dies are  poetic  spiritual  dramas  in- 
serted often  in  prose  sermons.  In  all, 
the  poetry  of  the  Bible  is  lasting 
beauty  and  inspiration. 
Study  Helps 
1.  How  does  the  rhythm  of  the  Bible 
literature  diflPer  from  that  of  other  poetry 
with  which  we  are  familiar?  (See  notes  in 
The  Modern  Reader's  Bible,  by  Moulton. ) 
2.  Select  and  read  some  choice  Psalms. 
Discuss  them  as  pieces  of  literature:  theme, 
style,  setting,  etc.     The  following  are  a 
few  of  the  many  Psalms  distinguished  for 
their  beauty:  i,  8,  15,  19,  24,  27,  30:1-8, 
32:1-7,  33,  34,  37:1-19,  39,  40,  42,  46, 
51,  62,  92,  107. 
3.  Analyze  a  poem,  such  as  David's  la- 
ment over  Saul,  giving  the  setting,  theme, 
style,  etc. 
4.  Memorize  some  of  the  Psalms  and 
Proverbs  which  are  timely  today. 
References 
Buck,  Dr.  Philo  M.,  The  Golden  Thread. 
Moulton,  Dr.  R.  G.,  The  Modem  Read- 
er's Bible. 
Armstrong,  How  to  Know  the  Bible. 
Thomas  and  Espenshad,  Bible  Readings. 
Van  Dyke,  The  Bible  as  Literature 
(Chapter  VIII). 
Farrar,  F.  W.,  The  Bible,  Its  Meaning 
and  Supremacy  (Chapter  XXIII). 
Moulton  Dr.  R.  C,  The  Bible  as  Liter- 
ature (Chapters  1-8;  18). 
Rice,  John,  The  Old  Testament  in  the 
Life  oi  Today. 
Note:   The  Holy  Land,  by  FuUeylove  and  Kelman,  listed  as  a  literature  reference  in 
the  August  1942  Magazine,  is  now  out  of  print. 
> 
Social  Science 
What  "America"  Means 
Lesson  5 
Our  Civic  Rights  and  Duties 
(Tuesday,  March  23,  1943) 
'The  end  of  the  State  is  not  only  to  live,  but  to  live  nobly/'—Aristotle 
WHEN  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States  was  framed,  two 
fundamental  fields  of  activity  and 
conduct  were  in  the  minds  of  the 
delegates  who  formed  the  Conven- 
tion. They  first  formulated  and 
wrote  a  charter  of  government,  con- 
sisting of  a  law-making  body,  a  law- 
interpreting  body,  and  a  law-execut- 
ing body.  To  each  department  was 
ascribed  clearly  its  functions,  which 
were  given  meaning  as  time  went  on 
by  the  character  and  intelligence  of 
the  men  who  were  chosen  by  the 
people  to  be  their  public  servants  in 
government.    The  statesmen  of  the

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  m 
Republic  yielded  their  best  thought  ty,  or  of  his  freedom.    He  may  wor- 
and  purposes  to  the  charter  which  ship  God  as  his  conscience  dictates; 
the  fathers  had  written,  and  Madame  he  may  receive  his  education  in  pub- 
De  Stael  remarked  to  Edward  Ever-  lie  schools  and  colleges;  he  may  go 
ett  in  Paris:    "You  Americans  are  and  come  as  he  pleases;  and  he  may 
the  advance  guard  of  the  human  make  of  his  home  all  that  is  lovely 
race."  and  true.    To  the  Constitution,  he 
The  fathers  of  the  Republic  also  must  always  be  loyal,  and  his  loyalty 
marked  out  the  second  field  of  ac-  depends  upon  the  sacredness  of  his 
tivity  and  conduct;  namely,  civic  citizenship.  The  essentials  of  our 
liberty,  defined  fundamentally  by  civic  liberty  are  proclaimed  by  the 
the  Bill  of  Rights,  or  the  first  ten  Declaration  of  Independence  and 
amendments  to  the  Constitution,  the  Constitution,  and  upon  these 
The  Government  was  forbidden  to  essentials  the  civilization  of  America 
invade  this  field,  for  it  is  the  field  has  been  built.  They  demand  the 
wherein  every  citizen  discovers  his  highest  ideals  of  citizenship,  and 
sacred  rights  and  privileges,  to  make  citizenship  requires  that  its  purity 
a  life  all  that  is  best.  The  glory  of  be  kept  inviolate, 
this  field  lies  in  the  fact  that  it  re-  Any  movement  among  the  citizens 
quires  the  highest  moral  and  intel-  of  America  to  force  their  ideas  on  the 
lectual  endeavor  to  properly  appre-  people  by  hate  and  by  social  and 
ciate  it.  Courts  of  justice  were  in-  political  revolution  is  contrary  to 
stituted  that  its  rights  should  not  be  American  principles  and  becomes 
invaded.  Never  before  in  the  his-  the  greatest  menace  to  the  Constitu- 
tory  of  mankind  was  this  ever  done,  tion  and  our  civic  liberties.  ''If  we 
and  it  has  become,  as  the  founders  are  to  have  industrial  peace,''  says  a 
wished,  the  principal  characteristic  noted  economist,  "we  must  have  the 
of  our  Government.  It  holds  to  the  industrial  virtues,"  which  are  honesty 
ideal  that  man  must  have  the  priv-  in  work  and  fidelity  to  public  secur- 
ilege  to  develop  all  that  is  best  within  ity,  public  order,  and  the  unity  of 
him— the  development  of  his  noblest  our  national  life.  The  unfortunate 
purposes  and  desires.  Civic  liberty  condition  today  in  America  is  our 
makes  man  a  citizen  and  not  a  sub-  weakness  of  morale  and  the  loss  oi 
ject.  It  gives  him  his  agency  to  at-  our  finer  sense  of  civic  virtues, 
tain  knowledge  and  happiness,  and  Our  democratic  government  has 
brings  all  citizens  of  the  Republic  always  been  threatened  by  forces 
more  and  more  into  a  harmony  of  from  within,  for  where  there  is  in- 
divine  purpose.  Christianity  was  to  dividual  opportunity,  there  will  al- 
be  "the  true  Light,  which  lighteth  ways  be  inequality,  for  no  two  in- 
every  man  that  cometh  into  the  dividuals  have  the  same  ability,  the 
world."  It  found  its  ultimate  same  tastes,  and  the  same  mental 
synthesis  of  illuminating  power  in  and  physical  powers.  Citizens  must 
the  message  and  consciousness  of  follow  the  principles  of  self-control, 
Christ.  and  realize  that  it  is  honest  labor 
This  is  the  main  characteristic  of  and    patient    endeavor    that    bring 
our  Government.    No  man  can  be  men  to  the  ideal  of  self-government 
stripped  of  his  property,  of  his  liber-  and  obedience  to  the  nobler  im-

m 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1942 
pulses  of  the  spirit.  "Men  are  free/' 
said  David  H.  Lawrence,  'Vhen  they 
are  in  a  Hving  homeland;  not  when 
they  are  straying  and  breaking  away. 
Men  are  free  when  they  are  obey- 
ing some  deep  inward  voice  of  re- 
ligious belief.  Obeying  from  within." 
If  America  is  to  live,  if  our  civic  lib- 
erty is  to  grow  larger  and  more  hope- 
ful in  the  future,  our  moral  and 
spiritual  values  must  be  deeply 
rooted  in  a  spiritual  idealism.  Our 
civic  liberty  is  the  ideal  of  the  more 
abundant  life,  of  realizing  life  in  its 
largest  possibilities.  It  is  as  James 
Truslow  Adams  points  out  in  his 
Epic  of  America,  ''that  dream  of  a 
land  in  which  life  should  be  better 
and  richer  and  fuller  for  every  man, 
with  opportunity  for  each  according 
to  his  ability  or  achievement." 
"The  building  of  this  Nation  has 
been  a  long,  a  solemn,  and  a  sacred 
task."  It  has  been  the  work  of  men 
of  the  loftiest  ideals  of  life,  who 
looked  upon  their  government  as 
something  over  which  Divine  Pro- 
vidence has  had  an  influence.  The 
American  people  have  always  re- 
garded themselves  "as  the  instru- 
ments of  Providence  in  the  work- 
ing out  of  a  great  government  and  a 
mighty  civilization."  Almost  alone 
among  the  governments  of  the 
world,  they  have  been  in  the  habit 
of  invoking  the  Divine  blessing  upon 
the  deliberations  of  their  legislative 
bodies;  and  on  every  festive  occa- 
sion, they  have  given  their  hearts  in 
prayer. 
America  needs  re-idealizing.  It 
needs  higher  moral  values  and  spir- 
itual standards.  Its  people  must  work 
together  in  a  common  loyalty.  Wil- 
liam Penn  laid  down  some  forceful 
ideas  to  his  people  when  he  founded 
Pennsylvania.     "Governments,    like 
clocks,  go  from  the  motion  men  give 
them,"  he  said,  "and  as  governments 
are  made  and  moved  by  men,  so  by 
them  they  are  ruined  too.  Let  men 
be  good  and  the  government  cannot 
be  bad.  But  if  men  be  bad,  let  the 
government  be  ever  so  good,  they 
will  endeavor  to  warp  and  spoil  it  to 
their  turn."  And  at  the  close  of  his 
remarkable  statement,  he  says  that, a 
good  constitution  and  form  of  gov- 
ernment will  be  preserved  by  men 
of  wisdom  and  virtue,  and  that  good 
citizenship  must  be  preserved  by  a 
virtuous  education  of  youth.  John 
Marshall,  the  famous  Judge  of  the 
Supreme  Court  of  the;  United  States, 
once  said:  "A  constitution  is  framed 
for  ages  to  come,  and  is  designed  to 
approach  immortality  as  nearly  as 
human  institutions  can  approach  it. 
Its  course  cannot  always  be  tranquil. 
It  is  exposed  to  storms  and  tempests, 
and  its  framers  must  be  unwise  states- 
men indeed,  if  they  have  not  pro- 
vided it  .  .  .  with  the  means  of  self- 
preservation  from  the  perils  it  may 
be  destined  to  encounter."  These 
words  from  the  most  noted  immortal 
Nationalist  address  of  our  first  great 
chief  justice,  is  one  of  the  "strongest 
and  most  enduring  strands  of  that 
mighty  cable  woven  by  him  to  hold 
the  American  people  together  as  a 
united  and  imperishable  union." 
A  MERICA'S  gift  to  the  world  is 
its  Constitution  and  its  ideal  of 
civic  liberty.  It  brings  the  people  to- 
gether in  the  bond  of  common  loyal- 
ty, and  its  values  in  spiritual  achieve- 
ment and  moral  purposes  find 
validity  in  the  vision  of  God.  This 
great  thought  was  expressed  by  John 
Adams,  when  he  said: 
ThiCre  are  rights  antecedent  to  all  earthly