[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Christmas Oldroyd]

Christmas is just another day. What's the good of a tree? Or a big dinner? I won't be home. I've got a date with the gang. We're going skating in the morning and to a movie at night." "The.
Exuberance of youth," groaned his father from behind his newspaper. He laid it down, and the edges of his lips looked a little pale.
Weariness crept into the usually broad line of his shoulders. He said abruptly:. "The boy's right, Nina. Why wear yourself out? I've got to go down to the office. Ill catch a snack of lunch in the cafe downstairs." Nina's eyes held tenderness.
When she got up to make more toast, her hand touched his shoulder in sudden gentleness. "It's been hard for you, Lawrence ?this past year. You need more rest. If only you could have the whole day at home."
Wistfulness had crept into her voice, but she shut it out as she set a plate of golden toast at his elbow. "I know how it is. Everything's changed?everything." "T'll say it's changed," cried Sue, coming into the room with a little tush. She wasn't quite dressed, and much to her father's annoyance she Page 846
Beatrice Rordame Parsons zipped things and buttoned them while she waited for her bacon and eggs. "The store is a madhouse!" Sue worked at Carter's, the largest store in town,. In the glove department, and she was always carrying home little anecdotes about her work. Now her pretty face was filled with fretfulness. "You'd think they'd skip Christmas this year, the way things are! There's only about half enough clerks. We are worked to death."
There was the same pale weariness etched against hereyes that had faded Lawrence's.
Nina saw it with a pang. Sue was going out too much?with a young man named Jerry. The family had never met him; and because Lonnie was so given to teasing, they knew little more than that he worked for the Government. Nina's hand touched a little golden-brown curl that had escaped across Sue's white forehead. Her eyes held concern. "Never mind, darling," she said consolingly, "perhaps the day won't be so bad." "The day before Christmas," said Sue with a strange bitterness, "is terrible.
People pushing and shoving, yelling and biting our heads off!
People go a little crazy about this time of year. I don't see what there is in Christmas to get so excited about. I say, give me Christmas morning to lie in. Bed. I intend to stay there till noon. If I don't, Tl be too dead to have a good time at Kirma's party."