[Vol29 | December 1942 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Mothers Prayers in a Welker]
(Concluded) ~ "MY Mothers' Prayers in a World of War Roy A. Welker Director, Church Institute of Religion, Laramie, Wyoming O artist is capable of painting a picture more beautiful than that of a mother teaching a child at her knee to pray.
Such a scene does more than catch the fancy of the world, it strikes in every heart a chord attuned to the harmonies of life's richest sentiments.
What would the world do without mothers' prayers? Sad as is the world's plight today, would it not be inconceivably worse without them? Brigham Young once said in effect: 'Prayer keeps one from sin; sin keeps one from prayer." A little reflection will soon convince one how profound that statement is. And that indeed is the relationship of prayer to sin?prayer is the master, the subduer of sin. Seldom, if ever, is a truly prayerful person led into the path of sin. Yet when prayer is neglected, sin finds soil in the heart to grow, and ere one is aware, sins of omission, if not of commission, begin to thrive.
These may manifest themselves in indifference toward the little niceties of life, Christian consideration for others, in bits of conduct incompatible with Christian ideals, in the general lowering of standards of moral living, in loss of concern for the present and future welfare of friends and sometimes of those nearest of kin.
Anyone can cite sad examples of this latter statement. Mothers, surely, more than all others, should, because of their special station in life, never slacken their prayers to let the sins of neglect and indifference find lodgement in their lives. If strong themselves, others who look to them for strength will be stronger. Is it not an axiom among all civilized peoples of the world that others may fail, but mothers never fail? 'They may suffer untold agonies for others, physical, mental, moral, spiritual agonies, but they still endure.
Somehow it seems impossible to separate mothers and prayer.
They are part and parcel of one another. A woman devoid of prayer is not a whole mother, her life is fragmentary. She is an object for God to work upon, not one with Him. Who was it said, "God cannot be present everywhere, so He sent us mothers"? 'That expresses our concept of the true mother?one, so to speak, who is like unto Him, constantly endowed with His spirit, ready to be heard by Him with her every petition.
Though all women of the world may not live up to such a conception of motherhood, the mothers of Zion should be of no other caliber, no matter how hard the task. But mothers, real mothers, are not looking for easy tasks; they are concerned with results for their efforts, their struggles, their fierce and bitter battles. 'They are looking for accomplishments, achievements.
They are looking for crowns to be won and glories to be attained, and they are not counting the cost of it all. No matter what may intervene, their goal must be reached. It cannot be reached without the help of the Lord, and His help cannot be secured without prayer, for prayer is the means of establishing Page 843 844 communication between the children of God and their Heavenly Father. Is it not clear now that there is no place for sin where prayer abounds? Is it not true that prayer and sin are incompatible? And is it not clear that mothers must be the conservators and the preservers of prayer in the world; that when they pray others will pray; that if they fail, thousands of souls will be lost? But they will not fail, and we shall still have mothers' prayers. ONE of the most beautiful hymns ever written defines prayer as the "soul's sincere desire, uttered or unexpressed."
Prayers need not necessarily be uttered audibly in order to be genuine. God knows the impulses and the minds of men and women, even though He desires their audible expressions. Yet, however eloquent a spoken prayer may be or however exactly or logically it may issue in contemplation, it can scarcely be called a real prayer if there is not present in the heart an ardent, burning desire for the thing prayed for.
This has lead thoughtful ones to call attention to the difference between saying prayers and praying.
Surely the Lord will not turn a deaf ear to one untrained in rhetoric or oratory or eloquence if his soul's desire is sincere, his faith unwavering, his purpose single to the glory of God.
Prayers that are nothing more than forms have had heaped upon them divine condemnation. The Master told His prophet of the latter days that such were abominable to Him. He cautioned His disciples who walked and talked with Him not to utter vain prayers as the Pharisees did, but to enter into the privacy of  their own rooms when they wished to pray, and the Lord who heard them in secret would reward them openly. The sample prayer He taught those same disciples is the embodiment of simplicity. Who, then, cannot pray when prayer is so simple, and 'through its simplicity so conducive to sincerity?
Perhaps that is why children and mothers pray so effectively?they are little touched by affectation and insincerity. In recent years, this question has often been asked: "Do we need prayer any more?" It has been asked because rapid advancement in the 'material world. Has made men feel an undue measure of self-sufficiency.
With all the comforts of mortal life apparently provided by the work of their own hands; men have felt little need of God and, therefore, little or no need of prayer. How is this false claim to be met? Easily! The failure of science to improve men inwardly is a terrific score against it.
Instead of raising men to heights of love and cooperation, it has plunged them into depths of hate, descension, and strife.- The higher virtues of life have not only been neglected, they have been abused, and the world has become in too large a measure, as prophecy has foretold, "carnal, sensual, and devilish."
From such a condition there must be a turning back, a turning back to that faith that makes for companionship with God; to that love of fellow men that enriches life; to that peace of mind that has no room for hate or strife.
Science that has failed to enlarge life's virtues, that has been forced to expend its powers in destruction, cannot make MOTHERS' PRAYERS IN A WORLD OF WAR the turn. If science cannot do it, what can and will? The answer is, "Only that which has done it before _?the Gospel of Jesus Christ." "But," one may answer, "'that is now at very low ebb." True, indeed, in many respects; hence, the great need for earnest, forceful, fervent prayer. The more dire the conditions, the greater need for prayer, and who would not say the present conditions of the world are sufficiently dire for the greatest need of prayer. MOTHERS of Zion and America, here is your challenge and your opportunity. 'There are few of you who do not have sons or someone near of kin in the service. If these sons needed your prayers in their childhood, they need them a thousand times more now. You have prayed for your sons in the mission field, but do not your soldier sons need your prayers more?
Your missionaries were greatly protected from ya +> 845 the lures of the world and the buftetings of Satan.
Your soldiers are open to the temptations of both. You would not let your missionaries down.
Will you let your soldiers down? No indeed! Let your prayers continually be knocking on the doors of Heaven as petitions for help for those sons you love as you love your own lives, for did not He who knew the way and the power of prayer say, "...
Seek and ye shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you?" You will not lose faith in Him who is "The way and the light," who is "the resurrection and the life," the only light and the life everlasting.
Prayers in His name will be effective.
