[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
Cut a lengthwise strip of fabric 1 1/2 inches wide and twice the YOU CAN SEW—X! I—BOUND BUTTONHOLES length of the total length of buttonholes. For six one-inch buttonholes, the strip for binding should be 12 inches long. Now fold the strip over 1/2 inch and stitch a tuck 1/8 inch from the fold. Repeat on the other side of the strip. You will now have two 1/8 inch tucks which are 1/4 inch apart. (See Figure 2.) Cut into sections twice as long as the marked buttonhole size. SECOND STEP Now shorten the machine stitch and stitch the right side of the binding to the right side of the garment by placing one fold of tuck on the location line, marked by the machine basting. Stitch the marked length of the buttonhole on the original tuck stitching, fastening thread securely on cach end by retracing stitches (Figure 3). Repeat stitching on other tuck, making parallel lines. On the wrong side, cut between parallel lines of stitching to 3/8 inch from each and clip diagonally to each end of the stitching. (Figure 4.) Turn the binding strip to the wrong side. Pull ends to square corners. On the wrong side stitch back and forth over triangle (formed by cutting), and strip at end of buttonhole. Do not stitch through the body of the garment. Repeat at other end. (Figure 5.) Finish buttonholes off on the wrong side by slashing the facing and hemming edges down against stitching at the back of buttonholes. Tuincs TO REMEMBER Buttonholes should follow the grain line of the material. They should be placed so that they run back from the center front or center back line of the garment. Start 39 OUTSIDE FIGURE 2 INSIDE OUTSIDE FIGURE 3 4 INSIDE ee Oe > ee OS Oe Oe oe Oo Oo SD OUTSIDE / 7 / / a IDE FIGURE 5 them % inch over toward the raw edge or to the left of the center line. 'This makes allowance for the space taken up in sewing on buttons. When the garment is fastened, the buttons and inside corner of buttonholes should mect on the center line. A very attractive variation of bound buttonholes can be made by inserting a small cord or drawing yarn through the tucks that form the binding. Pull the yarn through with a large blunt-end needle 40 after bindings have been sewed in place. This treatment is especially useful on materials that are soft and press very flat. It helps to make the binding stand out firmly. In planning the size of buttonholes, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 to allow the button to slide through easily. Measure the width of your button and add to it the measure of its thickness. 'Thus, a one-inch button that is % inch thick would require a_buttonhole that measures 1% inches in length. Remember that they must be long enough Chestia Chadwick Sracy s Qutles Hlave Made Ilany Homes (Reoautt ud ITH needle and thread as her most beloved tools,