[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
CALIFORNIA Page 22 THE CALIFORNIA MISSION 23 A ''Frashers'"'? Photo Submitted by Richard F. Oyler MT. WHITNEY, CALIFORNIA (14,496 feet high) Highest summit in the United States, King of the Sierra Nevada Range in Oakland and San Francisco. He was followed by Elder Karl G. Maeser, who continued the work during 1894. Mission presidents who succeeded him were: Henry S. Tanner, 1894-96; Ephraim H. Nye, 1896-1901; Joseph E. Robinson, 1901-1919; Joseph W. McMurrin, 1919-32; Alonzo ITinckley, 1932-35; Nicholas G. Smith, 1935-37; W. Aird Macdonald, 1937-41; Henry TH. Blood, 1941-42; Elijah Allen, 1942-46; Oscar W. McConkic, 1946-50; David I. Stoddard, 1950-51; Bryan L. Bunker, 1951-55; Henry D. 'laylor, 1955-55; Jesse A. Udall, 1958-. The California Mission, which included parts of Arizona and Nevada, was divided in January 1942. 'The dividing line was established at the northern boundary lines of San Luis Obispo, Kern, and Inyo counties. The northern portion was designated as the Northern California Mission. The southern portion retains the name of the California Mission. On September 30, 1958, there were 3,777 members of the Church in the California Mission, located in eightcen branches. Converts baptized during the year numbered 1,557. Twenty-six Relief Society organizations, with 752 members, were reported in December 1957. Alta H. Taylor is former president of the California Mission Relief Society, and Lela Lee Udall is the present president. Note: The cover for this Magazine, "The California Mission Home, With the Los Angeles Temple in the Background," is reproduced from a photograph by Harold Winn, and was submitted by Sister Taylor. See also "Recipes From the California Missicn," by Sister 'Taylor, page 36. The Silver Leash CHAPTER 1 Beatrice Rordame Parsons HE bus rolled steadily along the dark strip of asphalt which seemed to unwind itself under the wheels. The desert was unending. LaRue Harding stared out of the window and shivered. I'm a stranger, she thought. Not only a stranger to this corner of Arizona, but a stranger to her brother-in-law, Herbert Vetterly. He had married LaRue's sister, Amelia, seventeen years ago. I don't even know their children, except as names, LaRue thought unhappily. Erma would be sixteen, now. Joel must be fourteen. Connie, only nine. "They are my nieces and nephew," LaRue spoke softly to herself, "yet they are as distant from me as those eroded peaks which unfold to let the bus go through." Her sister Amelia had written, year after year, asking LaRue to come to Arizona. Now it was too late. Amelia was dead! Her mind went back. We KOK OK She had been five when their parents died. She and Amelia, ten years older, had left Arizona and gone to San Francisco to live with a distant relative, whom they called Aunt Mettie. Amelia had been homesick for their home in Fivelakes, for her friends and acquaintances. She had often talked about it to LaRue, even though LaRue was too small to understand. Page 24 "I remember the houses, the streets. I can still see the oldest house in the valley. Hillhigh House, they called it because it was built on a knoll overlooking the town. The hospital is named after our great-great-grandfather, Jonas Harding." LaRue was proud to know that Jonas Harding had driven his small, gray burro into the rugged mountains prospecting for gold. She talked about it to LaRue. But LaRue, being a child, saw the small gray burro more clearly than the man. She did not remember Fivelakes. As they grew older, Amelia teased Aunt Mettie to let them return to Arizona for a visit. But Aunt Mettie didn't have money enough to send them. It wasn't until Amelia was nineteen, and had saved enough money to make the trip, that she was able to visit old friends for an extended stay. She renewed acquaintances, and wrote about meeting a Herbert Vetterly. Love began to glow between the lines of her letters to LaRue and Aunt Mettie. "Herb's a wonderful man. He's good, honest. He's going to be an architect." A few months later, she wrote that they had fallen in love; that they were to be married in the Mesa Temple. She asked Aunt Mettie to let LaRue come for the wedding. But Aunt Mettie had been ill and LaRue, at nine, could not go alone. Later on, Amelia's letters were THE SILVER LEASH filled with longing to see her sister. "You are growing up, LaRue. We two are the last of the Hardings. I'd like my frends to know you." And as the years passed: "Herb and I would like you to know our children." But it had seemed impossible for LaRue ever to leave Aunt Mettie. Her duty seemed to be there. Even as a child going to school, she had things to do that Aunt Mettie could not do. As LaRue went through high school and on to the university, Aunt Mettie grew more and more feeble, but LaRue had managed to graduate. She found an excellent position in one of the large banks in San Francisco. By then Aunt Mettie was bedfast, and the money LaRue earned kept the dear old lady in comfort. When she died, LaRue, who had always had so much to do, found herself on the verge of a breakdown. It was soon after, that Amelia was killed in the accident which crippled her husband. Herbert Vetterly's letter, written six months after his wife's sudden death, was painfully compelling: I am of little use to myself or the children. I sit in my wheel chair in my room. The children are alone too much. People are kind. Mrs. Jonstone, a neighbor, assists with the housework, does the cooking. We manage, day by day. But the children and I are drifting apart. I worry about them a good deal. LaRue immediately had written Herb that she would take three weeks leave from the bank, and come for a visit during the month of June. She assured her coworkers that she would return by the first week in July. Although there had been no answer from Herb, LaRue felt she 25 must go. She got several tourist folders and read about Arizona: Area 113,956 square miles. Water, 329 square miles. State Flower, the Saguaro.... The town of Fivelakes... In that corner of Arizona where so much of Western history began, is fast becoming a tourist center. 'The climate is ideal... The altitude contributing to not-too-warm days and desert-cooled nights... On the Lost Padre River... Where the Lost Padre Dam contributes acres of water for irrigation... A lush green valley... Four dry lakes and Blue Lake nearby gave the town its name. Xk kk S the bus rolled along, LaRue strained her eyes for a glimpse of the valley. It was hard to believe that somewhere — behind the weird arrangement of pink and yellow cliffs, a lush, summertime land of blue lakes and fertile fields would appear. There were miles and miles of barren land to which gray tufts of grass clung stubbornly. She studied the wind-etched patterns in an ocean of sand, and wondered why Amelia had longed to go back to Arizona. As the bus crossed the miles of arid Indian Reservation country, she studied the rude hogans of the ancient peoples, and wondered that they could survive on sand and sun. LaRue was glad she did not have to stay in Arizona! Then, suddenly, the valley appeared, cupped between towering mountains. She could scarcely believe her eyes. She thought, amazedly: It's like those desert plants I've read about — lifting their heads to blossom when the rain has passed. No wonder Amelia had found it a good place to live! Yet, even as she made this small concession to her sister's judgment, LaRue could not accept the valley 26 as her own. The pastry-like contours of the hills made her think of a cake — baked eons before — to mse on one side and fall on the other, as if the oven had been imperfect. She saw yucca and Joshua trees that looked like odd-shaped Marsmen. 'There were saguaro and tall, straight cacti which looked like the pipes of an organ. In some places they were actually planted to form a sort of fence. There were small, spiny cacti crouched menacingly among gray boulders as if waiting to spring out upon the unwary. She saw tiny green lizards slithering into the sand to escape the turning wheels. She did not see, but her vivid imagination painted in_ her mind, pictures of tarantulas and Gila monsters. LaRue shivered again. Homesickness tugged at her like a leather thong. The beauty and fascination of San Francisco rose in her memory and she could almost smell the Pacific breezes, almost hear the roar of the skyscraper canyons. She knew with uneasy clarity that she could never make this oasis in Arizona her home! When the bus rolled into the station, she wanted to keep her seat and return to the Coast. But her baggage — one suitcase and an overnight bag — was being unloaded by a _ rough-looking, scragglybearded young man in a plaid shirt and Levis. He saw her staring at his face, and grinned, scratching his thin beard. "You'll see a lot of 'em, Lady. Every man around here is getting ready for the Founding Festival. By the time it rolls around, I'll have one of the best beards in the county!" He whistled as he set her bags inside the station. When her bus disappeared in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 LaRue _ followed The station was unpretentious. 'There was a_ cafe with green plastic-covered counter. There were Mexican and Indian dolls with intricately decorated costumes, ranged on shelves. Aztec gods glowered down at her from brass and tin masks, and she remembered that Fivelakes was close to the Mexican border. On the walls she saw murals of pink and orange cliffs which reminded her of castles and fortresses. As the one or two fellow passengers disappeared ito waiting cars, LaRue realized that no one had come to meet her. Panic seized her. It had been almost two weeks since she'd written Herb that she would come. She had not heard from him. Could all of them be ill? Or moved away? Or.. Something was surely wrong. Muted distance, her bags. HE looked out of the window at the road which ran hike a gray artery into the town of Fivelakes. 'The highway was being widened. From where she stood it seemed that the town would surely be gobbled up by the machines which sent clouds of acrid dust into the air. The chugging of scoop-shovels, the pounding of rollers beat dully into the cafe. She gazed through the brilliance of the blazing sun, and her head ached. The man behind the counter — bearded, frightening almost, in his western garb — watched her quietly. When he spoke, she jumped. "Get you a cab, Lady?" At her nod he went to phone. "Be here in a minute," he assured her lazily, running his fingers through his dark beard. "Raising this beard for the Founding Festival," he explained smilingly. THE SILVER LEASH She thought it was awful, but she didn't say so. She wasn't really interested in the festival. She'd read about such things. 'There'd be a Kangaroo Court, of course, in the middle of town, where frontier justice would be handed out. Women would wear the traditional swirling skirts of their Mexican neighbors, or the traditional sunbonnets of the pioneers. It would be a fiesta! He taxi, which had been a spinning, orange fleck in the distance, arrived at last in a cloud of dust. The driver put LaRue's bags into the back. When she gave him Herbert Vetterlv's address he stared at her in frank amazement. "Why, you're the sister Mrs. Vetterly talked about! You're not a bit like her. Your hair is red." H[e amended quickly, "I mean, auburn." LaRue laughed. Freckles," she said, and was glad that wide-spaced gray-blue eyes, dark brows, and long, dark lashes, compensated for the row of freckles across her nose. Amelia used to call them "sun-kisses." Oddly enough, she hadn't thought of the word for years! 'The taxi lurched back towards the town, the driver skillfully avoiding loose gravel and hot oil. He chatted easily. "Mrs. Vetterly was a very fine woman. She worked in the Church, in Relief Society. She belonged to the Gencalogical Society. She was very proud of her family and of the fact she was a Harding." "I know very little about the Hardings," answered LaRue weakly. She thought, I know so little about my sister. Even her taxi driver knew more! "Red hair and 27 LaRue could remember Amelia, as she had been seventeen years before, when she left Aunt Mettie's to marry Herb. But all the years between were closed to LaRue.