[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief | Author: Contest]
RELIEF SOCIETY—AN AID TO THE PRIESTHOOD 5 Even in the days of Paul, they were counseled to be silent in churches and other restrictions were placed upon them. But that was not necessarily in accord with the plan of salvation. The plan of salvation had nothing to do with those restrictions. 'They were due to the prevailing conditions among the peoples, the customs of the times. Today, our sisters take part in the various organizations that are assigned to them. 'They give service in the training of our youth, our children, and what they do is done by authority. And when the Prophet Joseph Smith chose the sisters in 1842, he gave them authority. Authority to administer, even, if necessary, the laying on of hands in behalf of the sick. Not to seal and anoint, but by the prayer of faith to plead with the Lord for the healing of the sick. I have often thought in reading our scriptures, the old scriptures, of the restrictions, apparently, that were placed upon women which the Lord in his wisdom in the dispensation of the fulness of times removed. I' isn't necessary today for our sisters to be silent. They can be called upon to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, to bear their testimonies and bear witness of the truth in Our sacrament meetings or other meetings of the Church. They have their own meetings, such as the Relief Society, in which they have been given power and authority to do a great many things. The work which they do is done by divine authority. The Lord through his wisdom has called upon our sisters to be aids to the Priesthood. Because of their sympathy, tenderness of heart, and kindness, the Lord looks upon them and gives unto them the duties and responsibilities of being ministers to the needy and to the afflicted. He has pointed out the path which they should follow, and he has given to them this great organization where they have authority to serve under the directions of the bishops of the wards and in harmony with the bishops of the wards, looking after the interest of our people both spiritually and temporally. And the Lord can call upon our sisters to go into the homes to comfort the needy, to aid and assist the afflicted, to kneel with them and pray with them, and the Lord will hearken to the sisters' prayers when they are offered sincerely in behalf of the sick, just as he will listen to the prayers of the elders of the Church. We could not get along without this organization. [ don't know what some of our bishops would do, if a bishop could not call upon the president of the Relief Society of his ward in cases of need. Maybe sometimes a bishop finds it rather convenient to put something off onto the shoulders of the sisters of the Relief Society when maybe he ought to shoulder a few of the things himself, I don't know. (Laughter.) But you have been very helpful, and the Lord appreciates the work that you do. You, through your faithfulness and your obedience, will find your place in the kingdom of God when it is established in its fulness and righteousness. 'Think of it! It is within the privilege of the sisters of this Church to receive exaltation in the kingdom of God and receive authority and power as queens and 6 priestesses, and I am sure if they have that power they have some power to rule and reign. Else why would they be priestesses? The Lord is pleased with your labors. You, through your service, have helped to build up and strengthen the kingdom of God. Just as necessary is the labor of the Relief Society in the Church as it is, shall I say? With the quorums of the Priesthood. Now some may feel that I am expressing this a little too strongly, but my own judgment is that the work that you, our good sisters, are doing, finds its place and is just as important in the building up of this kingdom, strengthening it, causing it to expand, laying a foundation upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1959 which we all may build, just as much as it is for the brethren who hold the Priesthood of God. We can't get along without you. Now I am sorry, but I have to leave. I hate to go, because I would like to stay with you and hear the remarks of Brother Petersen and the other exercises that are before you. But I leave my prayer and my blessing with you, and I want to say to you that I honor you and those who labor with you, who are not here, in your faithfulness and your integrity to the truth, the gospel of Jesus Christ. May the Lord continue to bless you with his Holy Spirit abundantly, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. &very Good Gift Elsie McKinnon Strachan Every good gift is a gift from our Father, All that we have and love and own, Is given by him: bird-song and weather, 'The silent dusk, the singing dawn. The bread of each day—life-building goodness, The hearth of evening, sun-seasoned wood, The circle of love in an hour of darkness— All are gifts from our Father, God. The home-glow of lamplight, children's sweet laughter, All that we have and hold and love, Family and friendship, freedom and shelter, Are gifts—all gifts, from God above. A Weenie Peaks Celia Luce Met mountain peaks have to be climbed. Heady feeling of being on top of the world, you have to work for it. Are smooth roads to the top of a few peaks, and roads part way up others. Roads with lovely views that carry you into the mountains. Mountain peaks. If you want the breathtaking view, the Oh, there There are But few roads lead to the Life is like that. Some happiness seems to be handed to us with very little effort on our part. But most happiness, like the view from a mountain peak, has to be earned by hard work on our part. WAicard I V\W/aaers Giza. Show (oem Contest HE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1958 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1958 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15, 1958. The first prize of forty dollars ls awarded to Lael Woolsey Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The Telling."