[Vol46 | January 1959 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Hill]
The Telling' is written. I have called this form 'the Voweled Quintet.' It is written in five stanzas, whose rhymes use the vowel sounds in alphabetical order: first stanza, all "A" rhymes; second stanza, all "E" rhymes, etc. Though all the poems I have tried in this form are in quatrains, in four-foot lines (tetrameter, usually iambic), I have set no rigid rules except for the order of the rhyme vowels. Even these can be varied by long and short vowels, different or same consonant endings, etc. The pattern seems naturally to progress to a lesser climax at line twelve, and to a greater final climax at line twenty. It would please me to have other poets try this form, as I find it makes a musically pleasant poem, and I feel it has good possibilities for development." MABEL LAW ATKINSON Second Prize Poem (Poathait of sincolns Second ITlother (Sarah Johnson Lincoln) Mabel Law Atkinson December Planting Tall and strong she was, her gray-blue eyes Held steadiness and kindness, firmness, too. Before 'Tom Lincoln's cabin in surprise She noted how the wind could whistle through The chinks between the logs, and saw no door To close against December—just a hole Wide-gaping; moist, foot-printed earth, the floor. Why had she come? As panic touched her soul, She turned and saw young Abe: a wordless pleading Was in his face. His eyes, deep-set and gray, Hungry for mothering sought hers. Love-heeding, She sensed Divinity had marked her way. Holding him close, there on the frozen sod, She knew her task: to keep him close to God. Page 10 PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 11 April Promise Abe lay in silvered quietude, the moon Of promise shining through the attic door, For love and willing work had wonder-strewn His world. Light footsteps on the new pine floor Below intoned the stillness. Reverently He touched the softness of his feather tick— "Not cornhusks, Ma," he whispered. "You should see Our cabin now, all whitewashed, with a thick, Smooth door from our own pines. But best of all She loves us, Ma, and keeps us near to you. She says someday when I am strong and tall God has a work for me—Can this be true?" Asleep when Sarah came and smoothed his head, He dreamed of angels by his prayer-sweet bed. Golden Harvest Sarah was regal still, and Abe, full grown, Stood towering above her. Awed, in pride, She viewed the harvest from her seeds, love-sown: A Man of God! When Thomas Lincoln died And Abe, his arms about her, gently said, "Ma, [ll take care of you," in his embrace Again she felt his greatness; once more read The prophecy within his craggy face. Fulfillment came: 'The Nation's President! Her Abe! Once more as long ago—in tears— His eyes sought hers and found, with wonderment, The mother love that had enriched his years. Through her had God prepared him? Need she ask? Enough to know she had fulfilled her task. Mabel Law Atkinson, Dayton, Idaho, is a third-time winner in the Relief Society contests, having placed third in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951, and second in the Relief Society Short Story Contest last year. The author of three published volumes of poetry, she is a member of seven writers' organizations, among them the "American Poetry League," "Idaho Writers' League,' and the "Gem State Authors' Guild." This last year she has added to her long list of winnings since 1950, several awards in regional, national, and international contests, the most outstanding being first prize in the Minnesota Statehood Centennial Poetry Contest in which 520 poets from thirty-six states and Hawaii and Canada participated. The wife of Earl J. Atkinson, she is the mother of five children and grandmother to five grandsons. She is a sister to Dr. Reuben D. Law, President of the Church College of Hawaii. During her long illness (since 1935), she has lived her philosophy that man, attuned to the Infinite, can rise above all handicaps and keep the mind and spirit inviolate; that life is beautiful, and earth can be heaven. Page 12 SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG Third Prize Poem Parting on the Gare Sylvia Probst Young The clouds hang low above this fallow plain, How icy-fingered was the wind at dawn— Good Captain, snow will fall before the night, Yet wait a little while to say, "Move on." Apart she stands beside the new-made mound, Her eyes are burned with grief, she does not heed The strong man's gentle arm about her waist— Bowed by her sorrow as a storm-bent reed. PRIZE-WINNING POEMS 13 The boy was life and laughter at her side, Finding the trail adventure day on day, How much the freckled face, the clear blue eyes Could give her courage on the toilsome way. This morn his singing lips are mute and cold— And she must leave him in this barren land, He who loved beauty—greening blade and tree— The feel of crystal water on his hand. Her cart will hold a torn brimmed hat, a knife, A wood-carved horse, a little treasure sack, These must she keep though each will tear her heart— And ever will her eyes be looking back. The winds of morn are threatening and chill, But let her stay a little longer there, She cannot come again to bring a flower, Or meditate beside his lonely bier. The handcart train will travel on its way, While here the lone wolves roam, the coyotes cry— She shall push on through long, heart-breaking days— But wait a little—let her say goodbye. Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, has been several times an award winner in the Relief Society contests. She placed first in the Eliza R. Snow Contest in 1952, and second in 1953. In 1957; she placed first in the Relief Society Short Story Contest. Mrs. Young tells us: "I'o be a winner in this contest is Aivays a thnll.