[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Grace Sayre]
Grace  Sayre 
Where  day  has  swept  her  silken  sails  of  gold 
The  sunset  sky  holds  brightly  bannered  light; 
Beneath  the  evening's  fast-diminishing  glow 
The  wet  sand  hollows  lie  in  saucered  mold.. 
Upon  the  rocky  ledge  here  at  my  hand 
I  reach  to  lift  a  star-beam  from  the  pool 
Of  saucered  sand,  and  dip  my  finger  tips 
To  place  it  on  a  shelving  rock  to  cool. 
I  lift  my  two  cupped  hands,  high  up,  to  hold 
The  star  that  slips  through  trickling  sands  of  gold. 
Where  does  this  beauty  go,  when  tides  ha\e  cleaned 
The  star-beams  from  each  hollowed  spot  of  sand? 
WTiy  does  the  tide  sweep  loveliness  away 
When  I  have  held  the  universe  in  my  hand? 
I  can  but  trust  my  world  to  him  to  hold 
Who  made  the  stars,  the  tides,  the  ocean's  gold. 
The  Cover:  "Silhouette  of  Trees"  from  a  photograph  bv  Grace  O.  Tuttle.

liev^    LJ ear's  (greetings 
ON  
behalf  of  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society  we  extend  love  and 
New  Year's  greetings  to  Relief  Society  members  throughout  the 
world,  and  we  pray  that  this  new  year  will  bring  them  comfort,  spirit- 
ual strength,  and  joy. 
Relief  Society  women,  like  everyone  else  the  world  over,  have  passed 
through  dark  days  during  the  past  war  years.  They  have  had  difficult  and 
heartbreaking  experiences,  but  they  have  met  these  experiences  with  a 
fortitude  born  of  faith— a  faith  that  God  was  at  the  helm  directing  in  the 
affairs  of  men  and  that  ultimately  right  would  triumph  over  wrong.  They 
have  worked  and  prayed.  They  have  been  courageous  in  their  individual 
lives.  They  have  bound  up  the  brokenhearted  and  have  earnestly  sought 
after  peace. 
And  the  spirit  of  God  has  been  upon  them  even  as  it  was  upon  Isaiah 
of  old  when  he  bound  up  the  brokenhearted.  They  have  been  given  strength 
according  to  their  faith  as  was  Alma  when  he  broke  the  prison  cords  unto 
deliverance. 
And  now  the  new  year  is  upon  us.  The  mighty  nations  have  bidden 
their  armies  to  lay  down  their  weapons  of  war.  For  this  we  are  truly  grate- 
ful and  we  acknowledge  the  goodness  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  But  we  also 
know  that  the  new  year,  too,  will  exact  of  us  strong  faith,  great  courage,  de- 
votion to  human  welfare  and  a  continued  striving  for  peace. 
This  is  a  time  when  we  might  with  profit  read  the  vision  of  Lehi 
when  he  beheld  a  rod  of  iron  which  extended  along  the  bank  of  the  river  and 
led  to  the  tree  by  which  he  stood.  And  the  iron  rod  was  the  word  of  God 
which  led  to  the  fountain  of  living  waters,  or  to  the  tree  of  life;  which  waters 
were  a  representation  of  the  love  of  God.  And  many  caught  hold  of  the  rod 
of  iron  but  did  not  hold  fast  and  were  drowned  in  the  depths  of  the  foun- 
tain, and  many  loosed  their  hold  and  wandered  into  strange  roads  and  were 
lost  (INephi  ii). 
Only  as  we  cling  fast  to  the  iron  rod  will  we  be  secure.  As  we  cling  fast 
to  the  word  of  God,  the  spirit  of  God  will  attend  us,  his  love  will  be  poured 
forth  upon  us;  we  will  receive  strength  and  courage  according  to  our  needs, 
and  we  shall  have  peace,  that  true  inner  peace,  that  quietness  and  assurance 
which  the  Prophet  Isaiah  told  us  was  the  work  of  righteousness.  And  our 
righteousness  shall  be  a  leaven  unto  the  wickedness  of  the  world.  We  shall 
be  like  a  lamp  that  burneth  in  the  darkness,  and  ''Gentiles  shall  see  our 
righteousness  and  kings  our  glory." 
The  prayers  of  the  General  Board  are  ever  with  the  sisters  of  the  Relief 
Society  wheilier  they  abide  in  our  own  or  foreign  lands.  May  we  all  so  con- 
duct our  lives  that  nothing  will  stand  between  us  and  the  blessings  we  seek 
at  God's  hands. 
Belle  S.  Spafford 
Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Gertrude  R.  Garff, 
General  Presidency. 
-  Page  3