[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Editorial | Title: s Be Not Weary Sharp]

Page 37 EDITORIAL 9 

VOL.
33 JANUARY 1946 Be Not Weary In Well-Doing Two women stood talking together. The one said, "Well, she is spending enough time working for the Church, I hope it is worth it." The other declared, "I have been working in the Church for five years and now I'm going to take a rest." In speaking to his servants in September of 1831, the Lord said: Wherefore, be not weary in well-doing, for ye are laying the foundations of a great work. And out of small things proceedeth that which is great. Behold, the Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind; and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days (Doc. And Cov. 64:33-34)- One of the most potent forces which a mother possesses in influencing the lives of her children to righteousness is the power of example which she sets her children by her daily living. She may not fully realize this as she lives out her crowded days, but when a beloved mother passes on to her reward, the memories of her which live on with her children and are treasured by them in the long days of separation, are the memories of the deeds of loving service she showered on her family at all times, and the innumerable acts of kindness and service she rendered those outside her own home circle. Her children recall the tedious hours she was wont to spend in making quilts, in cutting out and Page 38 preparing intricate patterns to be appliqued on the quilts on sewing day in Relief Society, and the hours of service she gave after the meeting, in finishing the quilts.
They remember the times when she left her home to minister to the sick or visit with the homebound.
They picture the happy afternoon socials she gave for a group of lonely sisters far from their families and homelands, and the remembrance of their smiling faces floods back to bring enrichment to the souls of her children. The picture also comes to their minds of that same mother dressed in a beautiful evening gown as she left home to enjoy an evening in the home of friends.
This picture, also, provides a fond memory, but does not carry the power to move her children to better or nobler living, as do the memories of the deeds of personal kindness she extended to others. The pleasure of the one is transitory?as was the occasion to the recipient?while the recollection of. The blessings she bestowed on the less fortunate of her friends lives on in the memory, and is nourished by the heartfelt words of appreciation for their mother which are spoken to them by others for years to come. "Be not weary in well-doing," admonished the Lord. Do not labor unselfishly for others for a few months or even years and then decide that one has served long EDITORIAL enough, turning thereafter to the pursuit of one's own pleasure, and leaving to those who do not weary in well-doing future service for others. The benefits of such selfish living "shall melt away as the hoar frost melteth before the burning rays of the sun."
Blessed is the child who, in later years, has an anchor to his soul and an example to follow in the remembrance of the life led by his mother ?of a mother who extended her love to draw into the warmth of her friendship the poor, the lonely, and the friendless, who freely, throughout her entire life, gave of her own talents for the upbuilding of the Church she loved beyond all else. 2
And just as sure as one renders service to others, so sure will be the rewards which will follow. "Cast thy bread upon the waters; for thou shalt find it after many days," said Ecclesiastes. "The Lord requireth the heart and a willing mind," we of this day have been told with the promise, "and the willing and obedient shall eat the good of the land of Zion in these last days." Certainly, to the mothers of Zion, one of the "good" things of the land of Zion for the willing and obedient will be the joy of seeing their children following their example, working in the Church, and not becoming weary in well-doing. M. C. S.