[Vol33 | January 1946 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: And Chapter]

BS Page 6
Prize- (inning (Poems Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest
EVA WILLES WANGSGAARD
First Prize Poem Star of Gold Eva Willes Wangsgaard 1 ? My neighbor's Where last year window frames a golden stat hung its counterpart in blue, A sharp reminder of one gone too fat To walk again the friendly street he knew. Long weeks ago his mother hung it there And still the dusk of grief is in her eyes And loneliness impossible to share Ox mitigate by kneeling where he lies. She neither dwells upon him nor evades The mention of his name when others ask; Though memory wounds each day with deeper blades, She goes with normal mien from task to task. At what a cost her courage has been won! I've seen her hang her pillow in the sun. Page 

 ?JANUARY 1946 II ? This star is many sons in one to her: A gurgling baby showing his first tooth, A tear-stained youngster pleading for a cur, A proud boy scout, a gangling, earnest youth. She knew his untried strength, his zest for life, Ideals he thought worth fighting to uphold, The girl he loved and hoped to make his wife And sharp cessation in this star of gold. To me, it is a symbol of the loss Of myriads of men who went beyond The lonely foxhole to the small white cross In Libyan sands or brushed by tropic frond. Oh, modern wise men, kneel in reverence Before this star and offer recompense! III ? The roaring wings that tore the world apart And made a mockery of miles and weather Can fly the lanes of peace and make a start Toward landing fields where all men walk together As neighbors should. Then, though he lies in sands Long burned by suns, or under shaggy palm Or chestnut tree or where the linden stands, His timeless sleeping shall be sound and calm. There was another star, another cross, Another wound that grew a rose as red; They hold the answer to my neighbor's loss. This star can lead us as the other led The shepherd's feet. Though high the goal and far, Can we deny the beckoning of a star? Eva Willes Wangsgaard, Ogden, Utah, is the author of three books of poetry: Singing Hearts, Down This Road, and After the Blossoming. Her poems have appeared in many national periodicals including the American Mercury, the Saturday Evening Post, the New York Times, and the Washington D. C. Post, and in such poetry magazines as Wings, Spirit, and the Florida Magazine of Verse. She placed first in the Huckelberry Mountain Colony's Poetry Contest in 1943, the only time in the history of the contest when all five of the judges chose the same poem. There were 1500 entries. Mrs. Wangsgaard has won awards in many other contests, including: The Deseret News Christmas Poetry Contest, 1938, 1939, 1940, and 1942; first in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest in 1941 and second in 1938; first in the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest, 1939; first in the League of Utah Writer's Poetry Contest 1940 and 1942, and second in 1941. Her poem "To Betsy Ross" first published in the New York Herald-Tribune, June 14, 1945, was reprinted in various newspapers and broadcast on the "World Homemakers" program from Chicago on "V-J" Day. Wife of David Wangsgaard, Assistant Superintendent of Ogden City Schools, Mrs. Wangsgaard is the mother of three children, the oldest a first lieutenant stationed in Tokyo.