[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Before the Dawn Olive M. Nicholes]
Olive  M.  Nicholes 
Orion  waves  his  jewelled  sword  on  high 
And  marches  onward  with  the  frosty  stars; 
Fair  Venus  rises  in  the  evening  mists 
And  hangs  her  lantern  in  the  April  sky. 
The  crocus  stirs  beneath  the  frozen  clod, 
The  river  slips  its  crystal  barricade; 
The  warm  earth  stirs  and  lives  and  breathes  again 
And  pours  its  bounty  in  the  hands  of  God. 
The  pale  narcissus  blooms  in  dappled  shade, 
Blue  violets  embroider  woodland  trails; 
Among  the  pussy  willows  by  the  brook 
The  veer}^  flutes  his  vernal  serenade. 
Why  should  I  tremble  when  the  planets  swing 
Thefr  sure,  celestial  pathway  through  the  stars. 
When  blighted  gardens  and  the  frozen  hills 
Pass  on  to  blaze  a  trail  for  fragrant  spring? 
Though  mankind  barters  for  his  brother's  soul— 
This  do  I  know,  if  all  the  world  forgets. 
That  the  eternal  mind  of  man  shall  move 
With  certitude,  unhurried  to  its  goal. 
The  Cover:  "Desert  Roses"  from  a  photograph  by  Dr.  Walter  P.  Cottam

Copyright   1909  by  Eugene  A.  Perry 
"ON  THE  WAY  TO  EMMAUS" 
From  a  Painting  by  Plockhorst

"Concerning  Jesus  of  Nazareth" 
<^  AND,  behold,  two  of  them  went  that  same  day  to  the  village  called 
Emmaus,  which  was  from  Jerusalem  about  threescore  furlongs. 
And  they  talked  together  of  all  these  things  which  had  happened. 
-      And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  while  they  communed  together  and  reasoned, 
Jesus  himself  drew  near,  and  went  with  them. 
But  their  eyes  were  holden  that  they  should  not  know  him. 
And  he  said  unto  them,  What  manner  of  communications  are  these 
that  ye  have  one  to  another,  as  ye  walk,  and  are  sad? 
And  the  one  of  them,  whose  name  was  Cleopas,  answering  said  unto 
him.  Art  thou  only  a  stranger  in  Jerusalem,  and  hast  not  known  the  things 
which  are  come  to  pass  there  in  these  days? 
And  he  said  unto  them.  What  things?  And  they  said  unto  him.  Con- 
cerning Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was  a  prophet  mighty  in  deed  and  word 
before  God  and  all  the  people: 
And  how  the  chief  priests  and  our  rulers  delivered  him  to  be  con- 
demned to  death,  and  have  crucified  him. 
But  we  trusted  that  it  had  been  he  which  should  have  redeemed  Israel: 
and  beside  all  this,  to  day  is  the  third  day  since  these  things  were  done. 
Yea,  and  certain  women  also  of  our  company  made  us  astonished,  which 
were  early  at  the  sepulchre; 
And  when  they  found  not  his  body,  they  came,  saying,  that  they  had 
also  seen  a  vision  of  angels,  which  said  that  he  was  alive. 
And  certain  of  them  which  were  with  us  went  to  the  sepulchre,  and 
found  it  seven  so  as  the  women  had  said:  but  him  they  saw  not. 
Then  he  said  unto  them,  O  fools,  and  slow  of  heart  to  believe  all  that 
the  prophets  have  spoken : 
Ought  not  Christ  to  have  suffered  these  things,  and  to  enter  into  his 
glory? 
And  beginning  at  Moses  and  all  the  prophets,  he  expounded  unto  them 
in  all  the  scriptures  the  things  concerning  himself. 
And  they  drew  nigh  unto  the  village,  whither  they  went:  and  he  made 
as  though  he  would  have  gone  further. 
But  they  constrained  him,  saying,  Abide  with  us :  for  it  is  toward  even- 
ing, and  the  day  is  far  spent.    And  he  went  in  to  tarry  with  them. 
Page  219