[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Springtime Wagenen]

THEN, from the shadows that precede the dawn, there comes the message of the resurrection, the thythm of new life, the measure of springtime, the eternal resurgence of the spirit. In words more clear than the tones of a bell, more lucid than falling water, the soprano sings, "I.
Know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth......"
This is the beloved Easter aria, words of hope and comfort, words that have sustained the followers of Christ for centuries.
These are the Biblical words that were treasured long before Handel set them to mu- 231 sic. Yet, with Handel's spacious talent, these words have acquired an added luster, a brighter illumination. The exquisite words are sung against a background of violin music more elusive and beautiful than the gray dawn shadows that dissolve into the opal morning. One feels the ineffable unity of this earth, its past, its present, and the ages tocome. One feels that this earth is but a part of the vastness of creation. The treasured words of the Easter aria fall in silver cadence, each note a jewel. "But now is Christ risen from the dead, the first fruits of them that slept." It is a majestic thing to remember that when Handel was an old man and the tide of his health was ebbing low, he played the organ at one of the numerous renditions of HANDEL AND GEORGE I OF ENGLAND From a Painting by Hamman 232 the Messiah in England. He had been blind for many years, but he could not give up his music.
Especially he could not live without touching the organ keys to make them speak the message of faith and
hope. On this occasion, the skilled hands of the master musician stopped in the middle of a phrase. He trembled and almost fell from the seat. Ina few moments he recovered his powRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL 1946 ers and finished playing the accompaniment with his accustomed grandeur. But that was the last time his fingers touched an organ. On Saturday, April 14, 1759, early in the morning, the man who composed the Messiah was himself wrapped in sleep. He lies with EngJand's honored ones in the vast crypts of Westminster Abbey. His spirit lives forever in his unrivalled music.
WHEN THE CHOIR BROADCASTS