[Vol33 | April 1946 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Our Number One Enemy—Cancer]

Our Number One Enemy—Cancer
Compiled by the Field Army, Utah Division of the American Cancer Society

WHAT is cancer? Cancer is not a disease.

It is the wild growth of lawless "gangster" cells that infiltrate the surrounding area and, if not treated or removed in time, "metastasize" (that is, break off and travel in the bloodstream or in the lymphatic fluids to other positions, where they set up in business again). The result is death to the individual by interference with vital organs, either at the site of the original growth or at a new site after metastasis.

We dread cancer above all other diseases. Therefore, it stands rightly among the causes of suffering and death as mankind's Number One Enemy.

Every year scientific advances make it possible to save more people from cancer.

Every year we grow older, however, cancer increases as a personal danger. The race between these two factors is the vital thing which concerns us.

We are concerned with it in every age of life. Even among babies, children and youths, cancer takes an appalling toll. This year it will kill nearly 2,000 American boys and girls who will never live to see their twenty-first birthday. Statistics indicate that between the ages of five and nineteen years, cancer kills more children than all of the following diseases combined: scarlet fever, infantile paralysis, typhoid fever, meningitis, peritonitis, diphtheria, dysentery, diarrhea, and malaria.

One in every six deaths among people of middle age is caused by cancer. Even among the aged, cancer is not as high a cause of death proportionately. Thus, a vast number of cancer's victims are stricken when still at the height of their powers—fathers and mothers with dependent children, men and women whom society and business can least spare.

The Facts We Must Face
The proportions of the cancer tragedy are shocking.

Cancer killed 607,000 Americans between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day—more than twice as many as were slain by the Germans and Japs.

Right now, cancer is killing 175,000 Americans a year—478 every day—twenty every hour—one every three minutes.

Cancer is the greatest killer of American women between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-four—the second greatest killer of American men.

In America today, it is estimated conservatively that more than 700,000 persons are suffering from cancer, and the total may approach 1,000,000.

Yet, we can face with real hope facts even as terrible as these. When detected in time and treated effectively, cancer can be cured in a large proportion of cases. In ninety-five per cent of the cases, cancer of the skin or lip can be cured in its early stages—cancer of the breast or uterus in seventy-five per cent of the cases, if treated in time. It is estimated