[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 587 | General Feature | The Relief Society Annual General Conference Teaching Aid Packet For Spiritual Living Lessons Cultural Refinement Textbook and Teaching Aid Packet Mary V. Cameron Resigns From the | General Board]
3 # General Board members and sisters throughout the Church regret the resignation of Mary Vogel Cameron from the General Board, as of May 15, 1968. She had served since January 6, 1957. During this time she rendered devoted service to Relief Society. She has capably served on many committees, including the Relief Society Conference, spiritual living, homemaking meeting, secretarytreasurer, poetry contest, short story contest, and many others. At the time of her resignation, she was a member of the visiting teacher message committee. In addition, she has fulfilled many speaking engagements at conferences both at home and abroad. She is an eloquent and sincere speaker, and her spirituality has enriched many lives. Sister Cameron came to the General Board after holding many executive positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. For nineteen years, she shared her testimony of the gospel as a guide on Temple Square. The united love of the board goes with Sister Cameron. Her devotion to Relief Society will stand as a memorial to the faithful service she has rendered. On behalf of Relief Society members everywhere, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Cameron. May she find much happiness in her future endeavors, and may Relief Society continue to be a joy and a fulfillment to her. SUN IN THE EAST As I raise my eyes this morning, Contemplating in all its splendor The sun in the east, My heart fills with gratitude Towards my Creator. And all of God's children through the world, My eyes lower and I see in my hands, What is the Sun for Latter-day Saint women— The Relief Society Magazine. —Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala 587 = When supper was over, Ellie sent Jase to the porch to relax and read the newspaper while she washed the dishes. He had never cared much for housework, and tonight he was especially tired after helping John Willey in the hayfield all day. "We're not as young as we used to be," she mused to herself, as she cleared the table. In the mirror above the _ stove, she studied her reflection and sighed —wrinkles and sag lines and graying hair; but she wasn't plagued with middle-age spread, and she seldom had a sick day, so what more could one expect at sixtythree? Jase was sixty-seven, and he still thought he could work as hard as he had done twenty years ago. Of course he moved a little more slowly, but he was slim 588 Sylvia Probst Young as he had ever been and just as straight and tall. He always laughed at the idea of getting old, and secretly Ellie was proud that he felt that way because it helped her to feel the same. "As long as you have a zest for living, you'll never be old," Jase often told her, "so you and I are just a couple of kids, Ellie, my girl." Smiling reflectively, Ellie put the dishes in the sink and turned her eyes to the window beyond which lay the cool meadow, rich green in the early June twilight. June was always a favorite month, when summer returned in all of its fresh loveliness, bringing a chorus of birds, the call of crystal streams, and vacationing grandchildren to fill the old house with their young laughter. Ellie had hoped to have the kitchen remodeled before they came this summer. She had visualized how _ surprised' they would all be when they came in and found Grandma's old-fashsioned kitchen gleaming with new birch cabinets, formica drainboards, and a stainless steel sink and stove. There would be a new refrigerator that would never need defrosting. The linoleum, that needed weekly waxing, would be replaced with carpeting. Jase and she had made all the plans for it during the stormy, winter days. They had poured over catalogues and lumber-yard bulletins, everything had been figured and estimated. All they had to do now was to wait for Luke Crockett, who remodeled for everybody, to get around to them. He had promised to begin their work in April, but then he had had the misfortune to break a leg, so that had meant waiting, again. Jase had tried to console her. "You've waited for twenty years, Ellie, so a few more months won't be too bad, will they?" Yes, she had waited for a long time. The kitchen money, as they had come to call any funds that were reserved for repairs in the home, had a way of being used for so many other things over the years, and Jase was not one to go in debt. He had always wanted to wait for anything new until they could pay for it. Well they had the kitchen money now, and it wasn't needed for anything else, thank goodness. Ellie had hoped that Luke would begin on her kitchen by the forepart of June, but he wanted to go fishing for a week or two, so he wouldn't promise Kitchen Money to come until after the first of July. She was keenly disappointed. The boys, two or three, if not all four, always came home for a family reunion on Jase's birthday, which was the eighteenth of June, and she had hoped to surprise them with the new kitchen. "Don't fret about it, honey," Jase could always oil the troubled waters, "the surprise will be just as good next year." Dishes finished, Ellie took her knitting and went to the porch to join Jase. The sun, a great, blazing ball against the western horizon, colored the stratus clouds with a golden glow. Peace was like a benediction around them, as Jase looked up from his paper to smile at her. "Ours is a summer haven," he announced. Passing a section of the paper to her, he picked up a small pamphlet and a map from the wicker table. Ellie grinned. "Where are we going next summer?" she asked. Jase looked a little sheepish, she could read him like a book, but it didn't matter. "How about Hawaii?" he challenged. "I've always wanted to go there, and I really think we could make it. Do you know how cheaply you can fly these days? Look!" He brought the pamphlet to show her, eager as a schoolboy, but the sudden buzzing of the telephone interrupted. Assuring him that she would see his plans on return, Ellie went into the house to answer it. "Hello, Mother," the voice through the phone was strong and masculine, "how are you?" "Matt!" she cried. "How are you? Is anything wrong?" 

589 August 1968

 "No," he laughed, "of course not. I just called to tell you we're coming home for Dad's birthday." "Oh, Matt, that's wonderful. When will you come?" "We're leaving in the morning, Mom, and we plan to bring Carole's mother with us. She hasn't been West for years, and she's so lonesome without Mr. Bryson. Do you think you'll have room for us all?" "Of course we will, Matt, there are all of the upstairs bedrooms and the camper, too. Leslie has extra room if we need it. You're all fine? Little Mary and Lisa? I'll bet they've grown since we saw them." "They really have. How about Dad, how is he?" "Fine. He's been helping John Willey in the hay all day, thinks he's about twenty years old." Matt laughed. "Well, maybe he is. Let me say hello to him." When Jase returned from talking to Matt he was all smiles. "Say, won't that be great having them come?" he exclaimed. "How long has it been since they were here?" "Let's see—they were here when Mary was a year old. She's three now—summer before last." "That's right—seems longer, though." Ellie nodded. "But you know, Jase, I'd really be happy about them coming if the kitchen were done. I'm ashamed of it like it is. If it were just Matt and Carole, I wouldn't mind, but Carole's mother—that's something again. Her folks have always had money. Mrs. Bryson is used to the best." "Now—now, Ellie, Matt knows we're just poor farm folks, and Carole knows it, too. If Mrs. 590 Bryson can't put up with what we have to offer, they can take her to a hotel." "Oh, Jase, you men folks don't know what you're talking about." There was aggravation in Ellie's voice. "Every woman likes a nice home." "Sure they do." Jase was so subdued that Ellie was instantly sorry. "I didn't mean it that way," she apologized. "I've always loved my home, you know that, and I know I'm going to have the new kitchen. I just wish it were done, that's all." "T do, too, honey, and I suppose we could have had it long ago, if we hadn't used the money for so many other things. But I guess the things we used it for were more important, don't you think so?" Sie agreed, and her thoughts turned reflectively to the years gone by. The kitchen money had been used for Leslie and the boys —for college educations and missions—a loan to Bill to buy a part interest in the local pharmacy; for Mark, a down payment on his home. And the very first kitchen money had been used to buy a camper for a summer vacation! Jase, reading her thoughts, nodded and smiled. "And it always paid dividends, Ellie, my girl, always paid dividends." Ellie knew he was right, but sometimes it had been hard not to become discouraged with the endless postponement of things she needed or wanted. And many times since they had come to the farm, twenty-seven years ago, she had wished that they had never seen it. Fruit farming was a gamble. There had been years—more than: two or three—when the peach trees, a sea of delicate beauty in their pink blossoming, had been smitten by killing frost that had left only brown, barren branches. During those lean years, much as he hated debt, Jase had had to borrow money to keep going. Yet, as he had pointed out, more than once, they hadn't done too badly. Ellie had been. As willing as Jase to make the old do, to go without, but now,-at long last, she would have hersnew kitchen. If 'only it could have been done - before Carole's mother came. Why. Couldn't Luke go fishing in July? When Leslie and Bill came on Tuesday evening to make plans for the reunion, Elle talked about Mrs. Bryson's coming. "IT don't know why you're so worried, Mother," Leslie told her. "Carole has never put on airs, and I have a feeling that her mother will be as sweet and gracious as Carole is." ~ 3sMatt and his family arrived on Thursday afternoon and Mrs. Bryson, a gray-haired, wiry, little. Woman, well in her: sixties, but seeming much younger, greeted Ellie and Jase with such warm naturalness: that all of Ellie's worries vanished. After helping Carole with the little girls, Mrs. Bryson spent time visiting with Ellie and Jase. She was interested in farm prices and cattle and summer vacations. When it was time to prepare supper, she peeled the potatoes and made a green salad. It seemed to Ellie that she: had known Mrs. Bryson all of her life, and to Jase she described. Her as "a kindred spirit."