Vol. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1887.			No.	5.


﻿TO JOHN TAYLOR.

Thou Chieftain in Zion! henceforward your name
Will be class'd with the martyrs, and share in their fame:
Through ages eternal, of you will be said,
"With the greatest of Prophets he suffer'd and bled."

When the shafts of injustice were pointed at him,
When the cup of his suff'ring was fill'd to the brim,
When his innocent blood was inhumanly shed,
You shar'd his afflictions and with him you bled.

When around you, like hailstones, the rifle balls flew,
When the passage of death open'd wide to your view,
When the Prophet's freed spirit through martyrdom fled,
In your gore you lay welt'ring—with martyrs you bled.

All the scars from your wounds, like the trophies of yore
Shall be ensigns of honor, till you are no more;
And by all generations of you shall be said,
"With the best of the Prophets in prison he bled."
					Vol. I Poems by Eliza R. Snow.
July, 1844.


THE SMILE TRIUMPHANT.

He has gone from our midst! from our frail mortal view.
Of its earthly Head, gifted and valiant and true,
Again is the Latter-day kingdom bereft;
For the third time the Twelve as its leaders are left.

An exile no longer—the news spread abroad,
Our Prophet and Seer had gone Home to His God.
To the hearts of his family and people all sore,
There remained but to gaze on his features once more.

To some his fine face appeared shrunken and dark
And still of deep suffering carried the mark;
But I saw only this—as I lingered my while—
The brave look triumphant, the calm, holy smile.

That smile so inspiring to Saints everywhere,
Which only the good and the faithful could wear;
A smile full of meaning, so rich and so grand,
That the world might behold, but could not understand.

The smile which portrayed the strong, masterly mind,
At peace with his God, with himself and mankind;
The smile which said plainly, as language could say,
"I have done every duty that came in my way.

Let the wicked their dark, downward pathway pursue;
They have nothing in me, they know not what they do;
Though they mock at the Truth, though they rage and
	revile,
Though they hound me, and kill me, I TRIUMPH AND
	SMILE!"

Dear memory ever will tenderly trace
The smile so habitual to that loved face;
And joy that in taking a final adieu,
That smile, fall of Glory, came last to the view.
		L. Green Richards.				LULA.


[Column 1]
GRAPHIC DESCRIPTION OF THE
SCENE IN CARTHAGE JAIL.

	CARTHAGE, June 27th, 1844.

	A shower of musket balls was thrown up 
the stairway against the door of the prison in
the second story, followed by many rapid foot-
steps.
	While Generals Joseph and Hyrum Smith,
Mr. Taylor and myself, who were in the front
chamber, closed the door of our room against
the entry at the head of the stairs, and placed
ourselves against it, there being no lock on the
door, and no catch that was unsealable.

[Column 2]
	The door is a common panel, and as soon as
we heard the feet at the stairhead a ball was
sent through the door, which passed between
us, and showed that our enemies were despera-
does, and we must change our position.
	General Joseph Smith, Mr. Taylor and my-
self sprang back to the front part of the room,
and General Hyrum Smith retreated two-thirds
across the chamber, directly in front of and
facing the door. 
	A ball was sent through the door, which hit
Hyrum on the side of the nose, when he fell
backwards, extended at length, without moving 
his feet.
	From the holes in his vest (the day was
warm and no one had their coats on but myself),
pantaloons, drawers and shirt, it appeared evi-
dent that a ball must have been thrown from 
without through the window, which entered his
back on the right side, and passed through,
lodging against his watch, which was in his
right vest pocket, completely pulverizing the
crystal and face, tearing off the hands and
mashing the whole body of the watch. At the
same instant the ball from the door entered his
nose.
	As he struck the floor he exclaimed em-
phatically, “I am a dead man.” Joseph looked
towards him and responded, “O dear! Brother
Hyrum,” and opened the door two or three
inches with his left hand, discharged one barrel
of a six-shooter (pistol) at random in the entry,
from whence a ball grazed Hyrum’s breast,
and entering his throat passed into his head,
while other muskets were aimed at him and
some balls hit him.
	Joseph continued snapping his revolver
around the casing of the door into the space as
before, three barrels of which missed fire, while
Mr. Taylor, with a walking stick, stood by his
side and knocked down the bayonets and mus-
kets which were constantly discharging through
the doorway, while I stood by him, ready to 
lend any assistance, with another stick, but
could not come within striking distance without
going directly before the muzzles of the guns.
	When the revolver failed we had no more 
firearms, and expected an immediate rush of
the mob, and the doorway full of muskets, half-
way in the room, and no hope but instant death
from within.
	Mr. Taylor rushed into the window, which 
is some fifteen or twenty feet from the ground.
When his body was nearly on a balance, a ball
from the door within entered his leg, and a ball
from without struck his watch, patent lever, in
his vest pocket near the left breast and smashed
it into “pi,” leaving the hands standing at 5
o'clock, 16 minutes and 26 seconds, the force
of which ball threw him back on the floor, and 
he rolled under the bed, which stood by his
side, where he lay motionless, the mob from the
door continuing to fire upon him, cutting
a piece of flesh from his left hip as large as a
man's hand, and were hindered only by my
knocking down their muzzles with a stick,
while they continued to reach their guns into
the room, probably left handed, and aimed their
discharge so far round as almost to reach us in
the corner of the room to where we retreated
and dodged, and then I recommenced the at-
tack with my stick. 
	Joseph attempted as a last resort to leap
the same window from which Mr. Taylor fell,
when two bullets pierced him from the door,
and one entered his breast from without and

[Column 3]
he fell outward, exclaiming; “O, Lord, my
God!” As his feet went out of the window
my head went in, the balls whistling all around.
He fell on his left side a dead man.
	At this instant, the cry was raised, “He’s
leaped the window!” and the mob on the stairs
and in the entry, ran out.
	I withdrew from the window, thinking it of
no use to leap out on a hundred bayonets, then
around General Smith’s body.
	Not satisfied with this, I again reached my
head out of the window and watched some
seconds to see if there were any signs of life,
regardless of my own, determined to see the
end of him I loved. Being fully satisfied that
he was dead, with a hundred men near the
body, and more coming round the corner of
the jail, and expecting a return to our room, I
rushed towards the prison door at the head of
the stairs, and through the entry from whence
the firing had proceeded, to learn if the doors 
into the prison were open. 
	When near the entry, Mr. Taylor cried out,
“Take me.” I pressed my way until I found
all doors unbarred, and returning instantly,
caught Mr. Taylor under my arm and rushed
by the stairs into the dungeon, or inner prison,
stretched him on the floor and covered him
with a bed in such a manner as not likely to be
perceived, expecting an immediate return of
the mob. 
	I said to Mr. Taylor, “This is a hard case to
lay you on the floor, but if your wounds are
not fatal, I want you to live to tell the story.”
I expected to be shot the next moment, and 
stood before the door awaiting the onset.
	WILLARD RICHARDS.


RUBY LAMONT.

	You are not “alone on the watchtower,” as
you have felt yourself. There is, at least, one
other woman in Zion, who is with you heart
and hand. One in whose breast the sentiments
expressed in your “Idol of To-day” meets an an-
swering echo. An aged mother in Israel, after
reading your article, said to me, “that will suit
you, and it is good.” Her opinion was correct
it does suit me.
	But, sister Ruby, I have lately formed the
conclusion in my own mind, that it is of no
use for me to feel grieved over the wasted time
thought and means of others.
	They have their weaknesses to battle with,
I have mine. If I can manage to overcome
my own it is all I can do; all, perhaps, that
will be required of me.
	You will likely question, is it not our duty
as thinkers and workers among “the proud
daughters of Zion,” to lift our voices against
the vainty and follies which are everywhere
so prevalent? It has seemed so to me in times
that are passed, but not now. If the warning
voice of the late Prophet Brigham Young,
which was ever so earnest upon these points,
can be so soon and so entirely forgotten by his
people; if the written word of God by His
ancient prophet, which you have so liberally
quoted, and which was of such great import-
ance that the prophet Nephi failed not to em-
phatically repeat the same to his people, can
be so ungraciously overlooked and ignored,
what effect would your voice, or mine, be likely
to have in the matter, other than to bring con-
tempt upon ourselves?


﻿One of the beloved and honored leading
ladies of our people, once told me I had no in-
fluence among my sisters because of my plain
attire. My answer was, “But I have a clear
conscience, which, to me, is preferable."
	Later, the mother and grandmother of some
of our fashion-loving young ladies, asked me
why I did not talk to the girls about their
pride and vanity in dress. To this I answered,
“We often hear the remark that, ‘example is bet-
ter than precept;' and if my example has no
weight with the young ladies, neither would
anything I could say touch their understand-
ings.  All I can do is to pray for them."
	With heartfelt sympathy and love, I am,
		Your Sister in the Gospel of peace,
					L. GREENE RICHARDS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

M. J. TANNER.

Continued.
	Paulsboro, May 6, 1885. Sister Anna and
I feel weary after our trip to Philadelphia yes-
terday. We rest in the morning, and after
dinner go out for a walk. She takes me over
some old historic ground, and shows me where
an old fort stood during the revolution. There
was a military post here, and all this part of
the country is full of interest as connected
with the war. There is a great interest taken
in relics of the revolution and the period pre-
ceding it. I am constantly shown, with a feel-
ing almost amounting to reverence, old land-
marks, furniture and other articles connected
with a long past period. My father was raised
in New Jersey, and I suppose many of the
name are in this part of the country. Sister
Anna has a friend whose married daughter’s
name is Mounts. I wonder if there is any
connection in the name. We call on the lady,
who is very pleasant, and speak to her about
the name, but she tells us her son-in-law spells
his name Mounce, but there are many of the
name down in the eastern part of the state.
We walk on down a green lane, through a fine
looking farm and past a semicircle of ever-
greens, where we find a neat cottage surrounded
by green lawns and flower gardens. It over-
looks the Deleware River, and is one of the
most romantic little nooks I have seen. Anna
goes to find the lady of the house, who is at a
little distance, assisting, or being assisted by a
small boy in clearing off the grounds. I run
down on the bank of the river, which is covered
with white sand and pebbles, and so clean, from
the washing of the tide, that one can sit down
without soiling their clothes. I feel as though
I could spend hours here, watching the river
and the boats as they float lazily about, drag-
ging their nets for shad, and picking up the
pebbles that glisten in the sand. A steamboat
goes puffing past, and stops at the landing a
little way up the river. It seems like a dream,
and I almost imagine myself a child again.
But I am warned that I must not linger too
long, for Anna is waiting for me, and, with
my handkerchief full of pebbles, I reluctantly
turn my face toward the house.
	I am introduced to Mrs. Dick, who is a
widow lady, and lives here entirely alone. She
is a very sweet looking lady of about seventy.
Her children have married and gone out in the
world, and her chief company and protector is
a large black New Foundland dog. She showed
us the family portraits on the walls, and told
us something of her quiet life until it was time
to go, and with a feeling of regret we turned
from the place whose charms held such a fas-
cination over my heart. If ever I write a ro-
mance my heroine shall have just such a
home.
	After supper Anna and I go to spend the
evening with Mrs. Flowers. The old lady is a

[Column 2]
relict of the civil war, if that is a proper way
of speaking, and related many interesting inci-
dents. She had a daughter who was very beauti-
ful. She shows us her picture, and I think I never
saw a lovelier face. She killed herself in a fit
of temporary insanity not long ago. The old
lady is made of the sterner stuff that it takes
to face the buffetings of the world, but she
grows pathetic as she takes us through the
house and shows us her daughter’s room; her
books and pictures and little articles that show
taste and refinement. Her lovely child has
gone, and her grief is a dead grief, but she
holds in her home a living grief, a burden of
daily and hourly endurance, in the person of
an invalid son. He looks about forty, and has
been for fifteen years confined to his room. He
says it is rheumatism, and the doctors have de-
stroyed him with strong medicines. Be that
as it may, he is a pitiful object. His limbs are
distorted and covered with knots where his
joints should be, and running sores, from which
work out pieces of bone which look like rock
or gravel. He is rotting and dying inch by
inch, and his mother hopes he may not out-
live her, for none but a mother would care for
him as she does. He is a very intelligent man,
but has grown cynical with his long suffering.
He is well versed in the Bible, as well as in
statistics and the topics of the day. He has
read much of Utah, and is better versed in her
statistics than I am. He ignores all religion,
and says that the Bible is much changed in the
last hundred years. He has an edition that is
very old—a hundred years or more—and he;
has nothing to do but compare it chapter by
chapter with tbe latest edition. He thinks the
Mormon leaders are knaves and the people
dupes in a gigantic scheme of fraud, We talk
until a late hour, and I leave him with a laugh-
ing injunction to decide whether I am the more
knave or fool.
	Paulsboro, Thursday, May 7. I had thought
to return to Williamsburg to-day, but it rains
so hard that I stay indoors. I am enjoying my
visit, and getting fat on sweet potatoes and
shad.
	Paulsboro, Friday, May 8. It rained this
morning, and I am staying another day. I re-
ceived a letter from home, sweet home! It is
the first I have heard since leaving, and I am
glad to know that all is well. In the afternoon
the weather clears up, and Henry and his
daughter take me to see the tall lighthouse. It
is made of iron, and is a hundred feet high.
We ascend the spiral staircase to the top, where
we have a fine view of the country, which looks
lovely after the beautiful rain. We go down
to the river, walking along the beach, and go
home by way of the “rifle pits.” another relic
of the revolution. He showed me where the
pits were made and entrenchments thrown up
the soldiers. The hollows are still deep,
though overgrown with trees and bushes, and
are sacredly kept for their historical interest.
We spend the evening with Mrs. Flowers.
Saturday, May 9, 1885. On board the train
for New York; weather pleasant. Sister Anna
came with me to Philadelphia. We came up
on the boat, and had four hours to wait, and
improved it by taking in the sights. We visited
what she called the new public building; it is
the largest and finest building I ever saw. It
is built of gray granite, and covers a block. It
is so high that it fairly made me dizzy looking
to the top. An arched doorway leads through
the centre from one side to the other, and car-
nages drive through. We passed through and
found ourselves in a hollow square with windows
and doors facing us in every direction. People
were passing back and forth, and stalls were
set up for selling confectionary and fancy no-
tions. From there we went to the United
States’ Mint. We sat down in a vestibule and
waited for the guide to show us through. He
came out presently with another company and

[Column 3]
invited us in, taking us through the house and
explaining the different processes of making
money. First we saw piles of bullion such as
we see shipped from the smelters; this is melted
and run into small bars, called ingots; these
are rolled in long bars, the proper thickness
for coin, and as wide as a silver dollar. This
process was done by machinery, propelled by
an engine of a hundred and fifty horse power.
There is another engine of seventy-five horse
power, which is, I think, used for standing the
coin. The strips of silver are placed in ma-
chinery which cuts out the coin; it is then taken
to another room in wheelbarrows, where it is
put in a machine which stamps it, and it comes
out money; before that it is only silver, now it
has a denominational value, and is ready for
circulation. We saw the coins of all centuries,
and almost of all ages; some of it was strange
looking money, and would be impossible to de-
scribe. We visited a life insurance building,
and called at the old “Independence Hall.”
We had not time to go through it, but
went in the portrait gallery, and in the
room where the Declaration of Independence
was signed. There were portraits of many of
the leading men of the day of both parties—
kings, queens, generals, orators and statesmen.
I would have liked more time to look at them.
The old bell was gone from its accustomed
place, having been taken to the New Orleans
Exposition.
	Anna saw me safely on the train, and as I
bade her goodbye I felt sad to think that I
might never see her any more. The country is
green now and fruit in blossom. At the rail-
road crossings there are gates to keep people
off the track; instead of swinging sideways they
are raised horizontally and bring to mind the
nursery rhyme:
	“Hoist the gates as high as the sky,
	And let King George and his men pass by.”
I stop in due time at Jersey City, and cross
the ferry to New York. Here I am beset by
cabbies, all calling, “This way, lady,” “Where
shall I take you, lady?” “Take a cab, lady.”
I tell them I want the street car; they say there
is no street car at this crossing. There is such
a crowd I am a little bewildered; they take ad-
vantage of the situation and insist on my tak-
ing a cab; I ask the fare; $3.50 and ferry; I
say no, I will find the car, for I knew there
was one. He then turned to a boy and told
him to show the lady a horse car, after
which I am beset with boys, all wanting to
carry my satchel and show me the way. They
all know I am a little “green.” I get to the
car at last, which is only a few steps after I get
clear of the crowd. I go to Grand St. ferry;
fare, five cents; cross on the boat, fare, two cents;
take another street car, five cents, making
twelve cents, which is something less than a
cab would have been. I get to my cousin’s
house without further trouble, find them well,
and pleased to see me safe back.


﻿Mrs. F. C. Floyd, of South Boston, has in-
vented a “Waterproof Bonnet,” manufactured
of rubber gossamer fabrics, for which she has
received a patent in the United States, and
has applications pending in other countries.
The material is now manufactured in many
fancy designs and in every color, making a
perfect imitation of the bonnets and hats now
worn. Its great advantage is indestructibility
by rain, the terror of ladies who wear valu-
able bonnets. They will, therefore, welcome
an article impervious to moisture,and yet hand-
some enough to wear at church, theatre, or
elsewhere, either in pleasant or stormy weather.
It is not heavy, and is very becoming. Ladies
can hereafter dispense with the annoying um-
brella, and those who have examined Mrs.
Floyd’s bonnet are very enthusiastie in its
praise.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PER PACEM AD LUCEM.

I do not ask, O Lord, that life may be
	A pleasant road;
I do not ask that Thou wouldst take from me
	Aught of its load;

I do not ask that flowers should always spring
	Beneath my feet;
I know toe well the poison and the sting
	Of things too sweet.

For one thing only, Lord, dear Lord, I plead,
	Lead me aright—
Though strength should falter and though heart should
	bleed,
Through Peace to Light.

I do not ask, O Lord, that Thou shouldst shed
	Full radiance here;
Give but a ray of peace, that I may tread
	Without a fear.

I do not ask my cross to understand,
	My way to see;
Better in darkness just to feel Thy hand
	And follow Thee.

Joy is like restless day; but peace divine
	Like quiet night;
Lead me, O Lord,—till perfect Day shall shine,
	Through Peace to Light.—Selected
							ADELAIDE PROCTOR.


ON THE DEATH OF A CHILD.

	“The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away.”

Father, Mother, Sisters, Brothers,
	Weep not for the one departed,
Though his absence pleasure smothers—
	Renders you nigh broken hearted.

So like the lovely flowers bright,
	That perish by the frost, in bloom,
Your dear one passed from joyful sight
	To rest within the silent tomb.

You’ll e’er miss your darling sleeping,
	Sometimes you may yearn for him;
Behind the veil there’s joy, not weeping,
	O’er another saved from sin.

The purest spirits born on earth,
	Having, too, a high commission,
But numbered few years from their birth,
	Ere God released them from their mission.

It seems that some are born to die,
	A righteous plan to fill;
And soon return to God on high
	In glory, as they’ve done His will.

For pure in heart from evil free,
	Not worthy in this world of vice;
And Father, merciful, doth see
	’Twere best for them in paradise.

Your darling boy, now resting sweetly,
	Is better off, by far, than we;
His mission short he did completely,
	And now from sin and pain he’s free.

He dwells with beings pure and blest,
	For God above is kind and just.
Your boy is knowing sweetest rest,
	His body only goes to dust.

Though sad bereavement sorrow brings,
	The sacred Scriptures say,
	“’Tis God who giveth us all things,
	’Tis He who takes away.”

His knowledge great we cannot see,
	His plan we cannot tell;
Or else our fervent prayer would be,
	“We thank Thee, Father, all is well.”

Sometimes we ask where His wisdom can be
	In recalling the children He’s given—
“Suffer little children to come unto me,
	For of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
All is for the best, however hard
	Be life’s journey through trouble and storm;


In a mysterious way moves the Lord
	His wonderful things to perform.

May the hand of Almighty, who caused you to mourn,
	For your darling, your beautiful boy,
When the tiresome journey of life you have passed,
	Take you home to eternity’s joy.

No mortal can tell of the pleasure and bliss
	Will be known at that heavenly meeting,
When loved ones who’ve passed there with a smile and a
		kiss,
	Welcome us home as a greeting,

Not again to be parted by death’s cruel hand.
	But joyfully dwell ever more
’Mid beings divine on the golden strand,
	Of the beautiful heavenly shore.
	HARRY N. HAYES.


CHILDHOOD.

	How helpless is the poor little innocent
babe, when brought into this world of toil and
care; and how gracious in our Heavenly Father
to impart such a quantity of maternal affec-
tion to the one being upon whom the child is
so dependent.
	It knows now only what it can feel physic-
ally, mental pain being entirely unknown un-
til its mental powers are sufficiently developed
to experience a disappointment.
	The little one first shows its intelligence
through its eyes following the slowly moving
fingers, in circles, and by fastening its attention
on its approaching or departing mother. It
has not yet learned that it is in poesession of so
rare a piece of  mechanism as the human hand,
but soon it will hold that appendage up before
the examining eye, as the anatomist does his
instruments before commencing dissection.
After having found the hand, it tries to make
use of it, and immediately we find the little
round fist entering the ever open mouth,
which refuses entrance to only those objects
whose size the opening debars.
	Our observation is next drawn towards the
efforts, in learning to walk. We say,“Have
caution.” Yes, the little one is learning cau-
tion, the many lumps raised by the cruel
floor coming in contact with the soft, elastic,
muscular, processes called bone, is its natural
instructor. And how many times that those
tiny fingers get in the way of the heated stove,
papa’s foot, the door, and numerous other
objects, constructed purposely, as it were, to
inflict wounds on the unsuspecting and trusting.
In learning to talk, the most rapid progress is
noticeable. A child of four or five years is
very seldom found who cannot perfectly and
clearly express itself; and if the parents are
educated there will be found but few mistakes
in pronunciation, accent, or in language,
as the child can only do or say what it has
seen done, or heard said.
	It is at this age that evil or good will sway
the action of the future man or woman. How
pure should be all the principles taught and
the examples set for our little ones, who have
been chosen by the Lord to raise up and bear
off on their shoulders the burden of a great
and glorious work, which we now represent.
	The death of our dear President reminds us
that we will not long be able to shield our
children from the troubles of life, and while
we are here let us show our good faith by our
works.
							PROXY.


AN INTERESTING ANNUAL MEET-
			ING.
	
	The Annual meeting of Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion of the 19th Ward was held July 19th,
Prest. M. E. Irvine presiding. Present on the
the stand were Sisters E.S. Taylor, S. M. Kim
ball, M. A. Freeze, Dr. Maggie Shipp, Lil[y]


Freeze, and Coun. Player Meeting commenced
by singing “Rock of my refuge;” Prayer by
Cotin. E. Bowman. Singing, “We are sowing.”
Roll called; 50 members responded with a senti-
ment. Minutes of last annual meeting read and
approved, also financial report. The pro-
gramme began with a physiological lecture, on
the care of the body by Miss Katie Dean; it
was excellently given and very instructive.
Song, Miss Lizzie Thomas; Letters of Corres-
pondence between Misses Clara Gentry and
Emily Dean. The Manuscript Paper was then
read by Miss Dora Bowman; it contained food
for thought; Song, Miss Georgina Brown. Prest.
Irvine said that concluded the programme and
the time would now be occupied by our visi-
tors.
	Prest. M. A. Freeze said, to say I have en-
joyed the meeting would but faintly express
my feelings. You are improving and I feel
to encourage you to continue. The article in
the paper on kindness affected me deeply.
We may all profit by putting it into prac-
tice. There are many more to speak, so
I will give way praying God to bless all here,
and enable you to do right.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor said, I am more than
pleased to meet you; I have been thinking of
the many changes that have taken place since
we last  met; If you have improved spiritually
as you have mentally you have indeed gained.
Has your faith increased? Can you say that to-
day you have more faith in your Heavenly
Father than you had one year ago? Praying
God to bless and keep you and that the officers
of your meeting may have wisdom to lead you
aright and ever walk as examples worthy of
imitation is my prayer.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said, your meetings are
carried on in a very pleasing manner and I am
very much gratified to have met with you.
Pray God to bless you all. Amen.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp said, I have truly appre-
ciated your meeting, and I sincerely thank
your President for giving me an invitation.
She implored the young ladies to continue in
the good work. Spoke very highly of the
lecture which was just what was needed.
	Sister Lily Freeze spoke many good words
in her usual pleasing manner.
	Coun. Player of the 19th Ward R. S. also
made some good remarks, exhorting the girls
to be careful in the choice of companions.
	Prest. Irvine then made a few closing re-
marks. Meeting adjourned for one year.
Grace Gallagher moved that we tender a vote
of thanks to our visitors for their attendance, 
and good instructions. Carried unanimously.
Sister M. A. Freeze then moved that the visi-
tors give a vote of thanks to the members for
giving them such a treat. Singing, “Beauti-
ful Zion.” Benediction by Ella Nebeker.
	M. I.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It is a signal of honor to be an arrow in the
Almighty’s quiver.—Macduff.
	Always learn to think and act for yourself.
Learn to say no; it will be of more service
to you than to be able to read Latin.—John-
son.
	Resolve to edge in a little reading every 
day, if it is but a single sentence; if you gain
fifteen minutes a day, it will make itself felt at
the end of the year.—H. Mann.


Mrs. John Taylor, once a bride of the White
House, has been calling on Mrs. Cleveland,
and reciting some sparkling reminiscences of
her early married life as the wife of a presi-
dent. She has five children and a beautiful
young granddaughter.


36	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	AUGUST 1, 1887.


ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE DEATH OF
	PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.

	Once more the Latter-day Saints are called upon
to mourn the death of their leader—the man who
has held the keys of the Kingdom of God upon
the earth. PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR departed
this life at five minutes to eight o’clock on the
evening of Monday, July 25th, 1887, aged 78
years, 8 months and 25 days.
	In communicating this sad intelligence to the
Church, over which he has so worthily presided
for nearly ten years past, we are filled with emo-
tions too deep for utterance. A faithful, devoted
and fearless servant of God, the Church in his
death has lost its most conspicuous and experienced
leader. Steadfast to and immovable in the truth
few men have ever lived who have manifested such
integrity and such unflinching moral and physical
courage as our beloved President who has just
gone from us. He never knew the feeling of fear
connected with the work of God. But in the face
of angry mobs, and at other times when in immi-
nent danger of personal violence from those who
threatened his life, and upon occasions when the
people were menaced with public peril, he never
blanched,—his knees never trembled, his hand
never shook. Every Latter-day Saint always
knew beforehand, on occasions when firmness
and courage were needed, where PRESIDENT JOHN
TAYLOR would be found and what his tones would
be. He met every issue squarely, boldly and in a
way to call forth the admiration of all who saw
and heard him. Undaunted courage, unyielding
firmness were among his most prominent charac-
teristics, giving him distinction among men who
were distinguished for the same qualities. With
these were combined an intense love of freedom
and hatred of oppression. He was a man whom
all could trust, and throughout his life he enjoyed,
to an extent surpassed by none, the implicit confi-
dence of the Prophets Joseph, Hyrum and Brig-
ham and all the leading men and members of the
Church. The title of “Champion of liberty,”
which he received in Nauvoo, was always felt to
be most appropriate for him to bear. But it was
not only in the possession of these qualities that
PRESIDENT TAYLOR was great. His judgment
was remarkably sound and clear, and through life
he has been noted for the wisdom of his coun-
sels and teachings. His great experience made
his suggestions exceedingly valuable; for there
has scarcely been a public movement of any kind
commenced, carried on, or completed, since he
joined the Church in which he has not taken part.
But it is not necessary that we should, even if
time permitted, rehearse the events of his long
and busy life. To do so would only be to give a
greater part of the history of the Church; for
with it his biography is inseparably interwoven.
	The last time PRESIDENT TAYLOR appeared
in public was on Sunday, February 1st 1885. On
that occasion he delivered a lengthy discourse in

	[Column 2]
the Tabernacle, in Salt Lake City. Rumors had
been floating around for some time that his arrest
was contemplated. In fact, while returning from
a trip to the settlements in Arizona, he was ad-
vised in California that he was in great danger,
and it was suggested that perhaps it would be
better for him not to return to Salt Lake City. He
listened to these cautions but still resolved to take
the risk, and came back and fearlessly went about
his business for some time. But on the evening
of Sunday, February 1st, he concluded to with-
draw himself from the public performance of his
numerous and important duties. In taking this
step he did so more to preserve peace and to re-
move all possible cause and excitement, than from
any desire for personal safety. He perceived that
there was a determination on the part of men
holding official position here to raise an issue and,
if possible, involve the Latter-day Saints in seri-
ous trouble. He had not broken any law. He
knew he was innocent and that if he were arrested
and could have a fair trial, nothing could be
brought against him. He had taken every pre-
caution that a man could take under his cirum-
stances to make himself invulnerable to attack.
He was determined that, so far as he was con-
cerned he would furnish no pretext for trouble,
but would do everything in his power to prevent
the people over whom he presided from being in-
volved in difficulty.
	From that date, upwards of two years and a
half ago, when he left his home in Salt Lake City,
he had not had the opportunity of crossing
its threshold again. To home and its joys, its de-
lightful associations and its happy reunions he has
been a stranger. He has lived as an exile—a
wanderer in the land, to the development and
good government of which he has contributed so
much! While living in this condition, one of his
wives was stricken with disease, and though his
heart was torn with anguish at the thought of her
condition, and with anxiety to see her and minis-
ter to her in her deep distress, her residence was
closely watched by spies, and when she was in a
dying condition, was even searched with the hope
of entrapping him! Thus she was deprived of
the privilege of looking upon his beloved face,
and he had not even the sad consolation of wit-
nessing or taking any part in her funeral cere-
monies.
	During the two years and a half that PRESIDENT
TAYLOR has been living in this condition he has
been cut of from all the society and loving minis-
trations of his family. But though this was so hard
to bear at this time of life, he never murmured.
He was always full of courage and hope, cheering
every one with whom he was brought in contact,
and lifting his companions by his noble example,
out of despondency and discouragement. With
the same courage with which he stood by the
Prophet of God and with a walking cane parried
the guns of the mob when they vomited their
sheets of flame and messengers of death in Car-
thage Jail, he confronted the difficulties and the
trials which he had to meet when compelled to
leave his home and the society of those whom he
loved. His demeanor throughout this long ordeal
has been most admirable. Every one who has
seen him has been impressed by his equanimity
and stately bearing. Always distinguished for
his courtesy and dignity of character, at no period
of his life did he ever exhibit those traits to greater
advantage than he has during his exile. He has
never condescended even to speak evil of those
who so cruelly persecuted him.
	By the miraculous power of God PRESIDENT
TAYLOR escaped the death which the assassins
of Carthage jail designed for him. His blood was
then mingled with the blood of the martyred
Prophet and Patriarch. He has stood since then
as a living martyr for the truth. But to day he
occupies the place of a double martyr. PRESI-
DENT TAYLOR has been killed by the cruelty of offi-

	[Column 3]
cials who have, in this Territory, misrepresented
the Government of the United States. There is
no room to doubt that if he had been permitted to
enjoy the comforts of home, the ministrations of
his family, the exercise to which he had been ac-
customed, but of which he was deprived, he
might have lived for many years yet. His blood
stains the clothes of the men, who with insensate
hate have offered rewards for his arrest and have
hounded him to the grave. History will yet call
their deeds by their right names; but ONE greater
than the combined voices of all historians will yet
pronounce their dreadful sentence.
	It is now some months since PRESIDENT TAY-
LOR was attacked by disease. It came upon him
by degrees, manifesting itself in the beginning
by a swelling of the limbs for want of proper ex-
ercise. He fought disease with his characteristic
pluck and determination. He would not yield.
He would neither allow himself nor anyone else
to think that his sickness was serious. He would
not permit his family to know his real condition,
as he did not wish them to have any anxiety on
his account, and it was almost against his express
wishes they were told how sick he was. When
messages were sent by him to them, they were al-
ways of a re-assuring character. Up to the last
day or two he was able to sit in his chair, and
until quite recently he was able to assist himself
in getting in and out of bed. The strength he has
exhibited and the tenacity of life have been very
wonderful; for though so strong, he had partaken
of scarcely any nourishment for the past six weeks.
So peacefully did he pass away, and so like a babe
falling asleep that a brief period elapsed before
those who stood around his bed were sure that
his spirit had taken its flight.
	As the sad intelligence which we now communi-
cate will spread through these valleys and moun-
tains, sorrow will fill the hearts of all at hearing
of the last days of their beloved and venerable
President. We know how deep has been the sym-
pathy that has filled the hearts of the Saints for
him in his advanced years in thinking of his con-
dition and of his being compelled to live as an ex-
ile from his family and the people. The expres-
sions of esteem and love which have come to him
from all parts of the land have deeply touched
him and caused him great pleasure in thinking
how much he was beloved and how much his wel-
fare was desired by all the Saints throughout the
earth.
	His constant desire was to do everything in his
power to relieve the Latter-day Saints from the
oppressions under which they suffer. Every pul-
sation of his heart beat with a love of Zion and a
desire for her redemption. We desired, and the
desire was general, we believe, throughout the
Church—that he might live to emerge from his ex-
ile and to be once more a free man among the peo-
ple whom he loved. But this has been denied us.
He has gone to mingle with the holy and the pure,
and to quote his own eloquent words, written con-
cerning his dear friend, Joseph the Seer;

	“Beyond the reach of mobs and strife,
	He rests unharmed in endless life;
	His home's in the sky, he dwells with the Gods,
	Far from the furious rage of mobs.”

And though we have lost his presence here, this
influence will still be felt. Such men may pass
from this life to another, but the love which beats
in their hearts for righteousness and for truth can-
not die. They go to an enlarged sphere of use-
fulness. Their influence is extended and will be
more widely felt, and Zion will feel the benefit of
his labors, as it has the labors of others who have
gone before him. The work of God will roll
forth. One after another of the mighty Men—
the men who have spent their lives in the cause
of God—may pass away, but this will not affect
the purposes of our Great Creator concerning His
Latter-day work. He will raise up others, and


the work will go on increasing in power
in influence, and in all true greatness, until it
will accomplish all that God has predicted con-
cerning it.
	We feel to say to the Latter-day Saints; Be
comforted! The same God who took care of the
work when Joseph was martyred, who has watched
over and guarded and upheld it through the long
years that have since elapsed, and who has guided
its destinies since the departure of Brigham, still
watches over it and makes it the object of His
care. John has gone; but God lives. He has
founded Zion. He has given His people a testi-
mony of this. Cherish it in your heart of hearts,
and live so each day that when the end of your
mortal lives shall come, you may be counted
worthy to go where Joseph, Brigham and John
have gone, and mingle with that glorious throng
whose robes have been washed white in the blood
of the Lamb.
	This is the earnest prayer for all Saints, and for
all the honest in heart, of your unworthy servants
in Christ,

	George Q. Cannon,
	Joseph F. Smith.


37	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

“After the burden and heat of the day,
The starry calm of night;
After the rough and toilsome way,
Asleep in the robe of white.”

“The silent chamber faceth the east,
Faceth the dawn of day;
And the shining feet of our great High Priest
Shall break through the shadows gray.”
		
“The Pilgrim they laid in a large upper chamber facing
the sun-rising. The name of the chamber was
Peace.”

The death of President John Taylor has, ere
this date, been telegraphed over the world, wherever
telegraph lines extend, there is no doubt. He held
the highest position of honor and trust in the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, hav-
ing succeeded Brigham Young in the Presidency
of the Church. In many respects Prest. Taylor
was a remarkable man, and one who would have
made a mark in the world undoubtedly, even if
he had not united himself with this Church, but
the Gospel gave him a name and fame, he could
not otherwise have attained, and he was satisfied.
President Taylor was of a religious nature and a
man of strong attributes and deep-seated convic
tions, through his whole life he has shown these
characteristics; fearless always in the path of
right and intensely devotional and susceptible to
truth. He inclined to literary pursuits, but al-
ways under religious influences, as all his numer-
ous writings and his poetry testify. His sacred
hymns are many of them published in the Latter-
day Saints Hymn Book and sung in the congrega-
tions of the Saints. Perhaps the most popular
of the hymns and the one the author himself de-
lighted in singing is,
	“The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer.”
The writer recollects hearing him sing it on sev-
eral occasions, the last time being at a gathering
in honor of the Prophet Joseph’s birthday anni-
versary in the 16th Ward Meeting House, Dec.
23rd, 1881; having been solicited to sing he re-
sponded cheerfully, and sang the long hymn
through, his voice ringing out clear and deep. In
his younger days he had quite a powerful voice
and was a favorite singer wherever he was known.
He had a remarkably fine voice for public speak-
ing of which he has done a very great deal in
many countries, always laboring faithfully and zeal-
ously in the interests of the Gospel, his preaching
and speaking accompanied with that power which
bears witness of the Spirit of God.

[Column 2]
	John Taylor was born in Milnthrop Westmore-
land County, England, Nov. 1, 1808, and was
educated in his native land, but came to America,
Canada, in 1832, then, a promising, ambitious, but
devout young man, a member of the Methodist
Church. His parents had emigrated there in 1830.
He become acquainted in Canada with Miss
Leonora, daughter of Capt. Cannon of the Isle of
Man, to whom he was married and settled in
Toronto. Subsequently he became a zealous ad-
vocate and rather noted preacher of the views of
progressive Methodists, a people who, like the
Campbellites in New York and Ohio, at least a num-
ber of them, seemed to be prepared for the true
Gospel when they heard the sound thereof. The
Apostle, Parley P. Pratt carried the Gospel to
them and quite a number were soon baptized
Elder Taylor went up to Kirtland in 1837, and
on the 8th of July 1838, was called through reve-
lation to the Prophet Joseph, to be one of the
Twelve Apostles and was ordained to that office
on the 19th of December of that year in Missouri,
whither he had moved during the period of the
sojourn of the Saints in that state.
	In the fall of 1839 in company with Elder W.
Woodruff, Elder J. Taylor went on a mission to
England. At the time they were both sick with
fever and ague, but nothing daunted, they perse-
vered and filled with honor and success a very im-
portant mission. Elder Taylor baptized the first
convert in Ireland, a farmer by the name of Taite.
He preached in several places in that country,
then went to Scotland, where he preached in Pais-
ley and Glasgow, then returned to England and
from there went to the Isle of Man and succeeded
in establishing a branch of the Church on that
island. Before he returned to Nauvoo, Ill., he
had traveled without purse or scrip 5,000 miles
besides his journeys in the British Isles on rail-
roads, steamboats and coaches, on foot and on horse-
back, and had never asked any one for a farthing,
and never lacked for anything.
	After his return to Nauvoo he became the edi-
tor of “The Times and Seasons” and also “The
Nauvoo Neighbor,” and was a member of the
City Council. Apostle Taylor was a bosom friend
of the Prophet Joseph and one of his right hand
men. When the Prophet and Patriarch were im-
prisoned in Carthage jail, he went with them vol-
untarily to share their imprisonment. On the eve-
ning before the martyrdom and tragedy in the
jail he sang to the Prophet one of his favorite
hymns
		“A poor wayfaring man of grief.”

	We publish in this issue on the first page, the
letter written by Elder Willard Richards from the
scene of that terrible event on the day of the oc-
currence, when those great and noble men fell
victims to the fury and rage of a cruel relentless
mob. Remembering it, as the writer does, when
the news came into Nauvoo, we cannot help call-
ing it the dark days, for it seemed that clouds of
thick black darkness overspread and enveloped
that beautiful city.
	Elder Taylor was able, with his powerful arm
aided by his cane, to strike down some of the
loaded weapons until he was severely wounded,
four bullets entering his body, another one was
warded off by his watch which stopped and marked
the moment of the fearful massacre.
	About the time of the exodus from Nauvoo
Elder Taylor went with Elders P. P. Pratt and
O. Hyde to the British Isles, to attend to business
matters pertaining to the Church, but returned to
Winter Quarters on the Missouri River in the
spring of 1847 just as the pioneers were leaving
to find a home and resting place for the Saints
somewhere in the region of the Rocky Moun-
tains.
	Elder Taylor and family left Winter Quarters on
the 19th of June, 1847, with the first company of
emigrating Saints which was organized to cross

[Column 3]
the plains to the place which the pioneers were
expected to find. The company arrived in this
valley after a tedious journey across the plains in
October. It may be truly said that John Taylor
was one of the founders of Utah.
	In 1849 he went on a mission to France and
during his absence translated the Book of Mor-
mon into French and German. In 1854 he published
“The Mormon” in New York City, a kind of jour-
nal which soon became quite a popular periodical
and was very ably edited.
	In many other honorable positions and places
civil and ecclesiastical he has shown himself an
efficient and wise counselor and leader, worthy of
the trust and confidence of the people and the
Saints of God.
	At the death of Brigham Young in connection
with the Twelve Apostles being their president
he conducted the affairs of the Church, and at the
October Conference, in 1880, the Quorum of the
First Presidency was again organized with John
Taylor as President, Prophet, Seer and Revela-
tor, with Geo. Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith as
his Counselors. Since that time he has filled
that high and holy position with great dignity and
with honor. The many trials and changes through
which the Saints have had to pass during the last
few years, have proven to the people that President
Taylor was eminently qualified for the office to
which he had been called and appointed and also
that he was equal to all occasions and circum-
stances however annoying and perplexing they
might be. He was possessdd of wonderful
equanimity and firmness of resolve, combined with
those noble qualities and endowments of heart
and mind that fitted him for the work the Lord
had given him to do. He was a man the people
might always be sure of as a leader and of whom
they might also be justly prowd.
	There is much that might be said and written of
this great and good man, who has passed away so
recently leaving the Saints over whom he presided
as a father and friend in sorrow, but they mourn
not for him without hope and consolation
for they feel assured he has joined
his comrades and companions and fellow-laborers
with whom he labored and was associated with
here, and that he is happy in their society and will,
not cease to labor there for the redemption of Zion,
and will continue in the scale of progression for-
ever and ever.
	The death of President John Taylor occurred
on the evening of July 25, 1887. He died, it is
said, like one falling asleep, without pain and
without a struggle.
	On the following day there were emblems of
mourning throughout the city. The Gardo House
was very tastefully and heavily draped, and many
of the public buildings. Flags were hung at half
mast with black streamers floating, but he in whose
honor these demonstrations were made, needed
not these outward signs; the sorrow of the peo-
ple was deep and real and many were the tears
shed for the noble martyr as the news of his de-
mise spread among the Latter-day Saints.
	The funeral services were held in the large Tab-
ernacle in this city, on Friday, July 29th, com-
mencing at 12 m. The body of the late President 
had lain in state in the Tabernacle from half past
seven a. m., until half past eleven a. m., and
several thousands of people had viewed his re-
mains.

“Weep not that his trials are over, weep not that his race
	is run,
God grant we may rest as calmly, when our work like his
	is done!
Till then let us yield in gladness, our treasures to God to
	keep	
And rejoice in the sweet assurance He giveth His loved
	ones sleep.”


38	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]﻿	
THE ZION OF THE LAST DAYS.

“Let Zion in her beauty rise,
	Her light begins to shine.
Ere long her King will rend the skies,
	Majestic and divine.”

	For Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace and
for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest, until the
righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and
the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.
Isaiah, 62 Ch. 1 vr.
	2: And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness,
and all kings thy glory; and thou shalt be called
by a new name, which the mouth of the Lord
shall name.
	3: Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the
hand of the Lord, and a royal diadem in the hand
of thy God.	
	10: Go through, go through the gates; prepare
ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the
highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard
for the people. 	
	11: Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the
end of the world; say ye to the daughters of Zion
Behold thy salvation cometh; behold His reward
is with Him and His work before Him.
	12: And they shall call them the holy people. The
redeemed of the Lord: and thou shalt be called,
Sought out, A city not forsaken.”
	Zion means the pure in heart. Doctrine and
Covenants Sec. 115,4 vr. The Savior said, “For
thus shall my Church be called in the last days,
even the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.”
	5: Verily I say unto you all. Arise and shine
forth, that thy light may be a standard for the
nations.
	6: And that the gathering together upon the
land of Zion, and upon her stakes may be for a
defence, and for a refuge from the storm, and
from wrath when it shall be poured out without
mixture upon the whole earth.”
	If the people of the world could only realize
that God has set up His Kingdom on the earth
for the last time, that He has endowed His ser-
vants with power from on high to preach His Gos-
pel, and by His own voice has proclaimed the
truth of His work, which He will bring to pass,
His strange work and it shall be a marvel and a
wonder in the eyes of the nations.” And the
meek and the poor of the earth shall rejoice in the
Holy One of Israel. Not many rich will receive
the Gospel; they cannot humble themselves as a
little child to accept the offers of salvation. The
Gospel plan as offered by our Savior when He
was on the earth was on this wise “Except ye be-
come as a little child, ye cannot enter into the
Kingdom of heaven.” We must be humble and
forsake all our sins, and be born of the water and
the spirit, and enter into the newness of life.
When we comply with the Gospel requirements
we put on Christ and follow Him in the regenera-
tion. As Christ was immersed in water by John,
so must we be buried with Him in Baptism; Jesus
gave John the authority to baptise Him, and said,
“Suffer it to be so now” to fulfill all righteousness.
By His own voice He has confirmed the priest-
hood upon His Elders to preach His Gospel to
the ends of the earth.
	The Lord calls upon all men everywhere to re-
pent and accept His Gospel, as He proclaimed
it when He was on the earth.
	He has said He will establish His Zion “And
the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come
to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their
heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and
sorrow and sighing shall flee away.” Isaiah
speaks plainly of the Zion of the last days. The
people will gather to Zion and she will become
the joy of the whole earth. “And they will say, let
us not go up to Zion to battle for her inhabitants are
terrible,” and they will be the only people that will
not be at war one with another. For there will

[Column 2]
be wars and rumors of wars and every calamity
will befall the people all over the land, but if they
will give heed to the offer of salvation by our
Savior, to come unto Him through the door that
He has opened by His holy priesthood through
His servants, the Zion of these last days will be a
place of refuge and safety; for all who receive the
Gospel and are faithful to the end. We read 2nd
Thessalonians, “when the Lord shall be revealed
from heaven with His mighty angels in flaming
fire taking vengeance on them that know not God,
and that obey not the Gospel of our Lord Jesus
Christ.” We read also in 1st Thessalonians “Des-
pise not prophesying. Prove all things; hold
fast that which is good.”
	All ye persecutors who are unbelieving and doubt
the word of God, come forward and prove the
doctrine of Latter-day Saints by Scripture, and
do not reject that which will save you and seal
your happiness; be wise unto salvation, and be
numbered with the people of Zion of these last
days.
	M. A. M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, July 21st.


A HAPPY TIME.

	On Thursday, July 21st, the Primary Asso-
ciation of Sugar House Ward held an annual
meeting in the school house, Mrs. McGee pre-
siding. The exercises of the children were
varied and well rendered, and brief remarks,
encouraging to the children, were made after-
wards by Sisters Ellen C. Clawson, Camilla C.
Cobb, Lydia Ann and E. B. Wells, and also
by Sister Harriet C. Young, who was followed
by Bishop Driggs, who had, a couple of days
before, been released from the Utah Peniten-
tiary, where he had served a six mouths’ term
of imprisonment, because he would not renounce
his wives. His remarks were very interesting,
and rather touching on account of the sym-
pathy it aroused for those who are suffering
and in exile for conscience’ sake. The Bishop
gave excellent advice to the children and en-
couraged the officers by manifesting an appre-
ciation of their labors.
	One particular fact we noticed in this Prim-
ary was the equal number of boys, as it is
usually much more difficult to draw out the
boys to meetings of this kind than it is the
girls. We heartily congratulate Sister McGee
and the other officers on their success with the
Primary of Sugar House Ward. Prest. Mcl
Gee made some very appropriate remarks, and
the meeting, after singing and benediction, was
adjourned.
	After the meeting was dismissed, several
long tables were set in the hall, all assembled,
and children and grown people partook of the
bounteous repast that had been prepared for
the occasion. The supper included fruits of
several kinds, delicious ice cream and rasp-
berries. It was a very pleasant and interesting
gathering, and will no doubt be long remem-
bered by the little people.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

	WELLSVILLE.
	On Saturday, the 16th of July, a district
conference was held in Wellsville, Cache Co.
There were present, Stake R. S. President, A.
Barber, Zina Young, Sister Clark and others.
The societies of Hyrum, Mendon and Wells-
ville were represented as doing well by the
officers from those places.
	The late President of Wellsville. Sister
Whiton having filled with honor her earthly
mission, has been called away to a higher sphere,
leaving her place vacant, and the Society dis-
banded. Votes of thanks and expressions of
good will were given to all the released officers

[Column 2]
who had well and faithfully worked together.
A new organization was effected, with Elizabeth
Salisbury as President; Elizabeth Maughan 
and Eliza Owen, Counselors; Sarah Owen
Maughan; Secretary; Marion Baxter, Treasurer.
A number of the brethren were present, who
gave encouragement and instruction to all,
specially requesting every member to sustain 
the new organization, giving it their confidence  
and support. Many good instructions were
given upon almost every duty of life, and our 
increasing responsibilities as wives, mothers
and women.
	E. S. CROWTHER, Ass't Sec.

	BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Eighteenth Semi-annual Con-
ference of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake
Stake, held in St. Charles, Saturday, 10 a.m.,
July 9th, 1887, Prest. Julia P. Lindsay presid-
ing. Singing. Prayer by Elder Wm. M.	
Allred. Singing. Roll called, and minutes
and reports read and approved.	
	Prest. Lindsey made opening remarks, and 
said she had not been able to visit all the
branches of the Relief Society through the	
Stake. “It is essential for the presidents to
attend these conferences, in order to report their 
branches.”
	The following branches were then represented:
St. Charles, Coun. M. A. Virgin, Bloomington,
Prest. Sarah Greenhalgh; Paris 1st Ward,
Coun. Elizabeth Collins; Paris 2nd Ward,
Prest. M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Prest. Martha
Carlson; Liberty, Prest. Margaret Morgan;
Montpelier, Prest. Petra Hoganson; George-
town, Sister Hetty Dunn; Preston, Prest. 
Martha Dalrymple; Fish Haven, Prest. Frances
Howell; Garden City, Prest. Ann E. Cook.	
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsey was pleased the sis-
ters were endeavoring to do right; thought 
more should be donated to tabernacles; the R.
S. donations had gone in with the Bishops’ re-
ports, and the sisters had not received credit 
for it, but it would be arranged differently in
the future. Gave very valuable instructions
to the sisters, and closed, hoping that all 
might progress in the kingdom of God.	
	Coun. Elizabeth Collins made excellent re- 
marks, and finished by saying, “If we are left
without the Spirit of God, which is the spirit  
of light and intelligence, how soon we fall into 
darkness and depart from the ways of truth.
We all have trials to endure. All that can be
shaken will be shaken. We should watch
ourselves lest we yield to the powers of the
evil one.”
	Prest. Nancy E. Pugmire, of the Y. L. M.  
I. A., spoke on the importance of sending in
correct reports, and doing that which we do
in a business-like manner, and gave good in-
struction. Singing, and benediction by Elder
Hugh Findley.	
	Sunday, 2 p.m. Conference assembled. Sing- 
ing. Prayer by Prest. Geo. Osmond. Singing. 
Sacrament administered While it was being
passed the choir sang, “O God, the Eternal
Father,” etc.	
	Prest. Jane Sparks reported the Dingle
R. S.
	Prest. J. P. Lindsey expressed herself as
been much benefited and interested during con-
ference. “We should seek the Lord in humili-
ty and prayer. It is a comfort to know that
we as a band of sisters are upheld by those
who are placed over us—brethren holding the
holy priesthood. It is not because we desire to
step forward in public, but because it is our
duty to do so. The longer I live the more I 
sense the great responsibility resting upon the
mothers in Israel. It is our duty to teach our
children to pray, that when they grow to be
men and women they will be able to engage in
prayer at the family altar.” Desired that the
R. S. should do all they could toward storing


[Column 1]﻿
grain. Hoped the sisters would take a lively
interest in their organizations.
	Elder J. U. Stucki made some timely and
interesting rearks, highly endorsinig the coun-
sel of Prest. Lindsey with regard to saving
grain. Invoked the blessings of God upon all.
	Prest. James H. Hart said there had been
many interesting subjects treated upon. “There
has been a great work accomplished in gather-
ing the Saints to the land of Zion. We should
search for knowledge; a great many do not
pray enough, but rely upon their own strength
too much. The organizations with which we
are connected will last forever; tyrants will die,
and the oppressive laws will be annulled.”
Spoke of the power of God made manifest
through His servants from time to time.
Thought the time had been well spent; felt
thankful for the privilege he had enjoyed of
attending conference, and also of being gath-
ered here with the Saints of God.
	Conference was then adjourned until the
second Saturday and Sunday in January, 1888.
Singing, “The Lord Reigneth.” Benediction
by Bishop John A. Hunt.
	JULIA P. LINDSEY, Prest.,
	NANCY H. HUNT, Sec. pro tem.

	JUAB STAKE.
	The Thirty-sixth Quarterly Conference of
the Juab Stake Relief Society convened in the
Nephi Tabernacle, June 23rd, 1887, Stake
President, Mary Pitchforth presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Prest. Charles Sperry. Singing.
Minutes of previous conference read and ac-
cepted.
	Prest. Mary Pitchforth said, “Since our last
conference two of our faithful sisters have de-
parted this life—Sisters Eve S. Riches and
Ellen Leith. We should not mourn for them,
for they have done a good work, and have gone
to rest.” Spoke of the trials of the Saints, and
said, “There is a silver lining to every cloud.”
Exhorted all to diligence and faithfulness in
the performance of duty, as the Lord would
not do for us that which we could do for our-
selves. Advised mothers to study medical
works, and qualify themselves to attend their
children in case of emergency, and exercise
faith in God and their children would be re-
stored.  Prayed the Lord to bless all the
speakers, that we might have a good confer-
ence.
	Sister E. R. Udall, Prest. of the Nephi So-
ciety, reported that Society as being in good
condition; the needy were well provided for.
“In doing the Lord’s will we do unto others as
we would like to be done by in similar circum-
stances. We all expect to become old, and we
should treat the aged kindly and respectfully,
and make them comfortable.” The Society
had clothed seven persons for burial in the last
year, and she was very thankful that they were
able to assist those who needed.
	Song, by Sister E. Grace, “All together once
again.”	
	Sister Serena Aagard reported the Society
in Levan as being in good condition. “We
cannot perform our duty without making sacri-
fices. We should be one with our brethren,
and work to do all the good we can.”
	Stake Coun. A. L. Bigler had been sick, and
was not able to say much. She thanked the
Lord for His mercies and blessings, and felt to
do her duty in all things.	
	Sister S. A. Andreus sang, “The Mormon
Car.”
	Sister Hannah Kinder, from Deseret, who
formerly presided over the Juab Society, said
she felt bad when she left Juab Stake, but she
had found just as good a people in Millard
Stake as there were in Juab. “We have no
time to be idle, but must work in rearing our
children and assist others.”
	Sister Mary A. Passe spoke in tongues and

[Column 2]
gave the interpretation. It was to Sister Kinder,
and was very comforting to her.
	Sister E. Taylor reported Juab branch. There
were as good sisters in Juab as there were any-
where. They were doing all they could to as-
sist in building the Temple. They had no
 poor in their ward.
	Coun. Ann Midgley was thankful to God
for His manifestations to her and her family.
She had seen His power in her family since we
last met in conference. Prayed that we might
have power to rebuke disease and evil spirits.
	Sister Pitchforth rejoiced in the spirit of
the meeting and in the tongues given through
Sister Passe. “Let us so live that angels will
delight to surround us and inspire us all the
day long.” She referred to a discourse of
President Taylor’s in regard to politeness, “And
to be ladies and gentlemen; study the art of
politeness. Kings and queens will visit this
people, and they will have to be entertained.”
Wished the young ladies would improve in
self-culture. “This people will surely come to
the front, and women should advance side by
side with their husbands. There is no excuse
for ignorance; books are plentiful, and we
should study the best books. Mothers can
anoint their children and pray over them and
apply simple remedies, and check disease be-
fore it goes too far, and if they are not ap-
pointed unto death they will recover.”
	Patriarch J. G. Bigler said the remarks had
been encouraging and instructive. Wondered
if we were as careful as we should be in train-
ing our children and setting them a good exam-
ple? Mothers, do not let your children run the
streets at night; watch over them; teach them
the Gospel; great responsibility rests upon the
teachers who visit at the fireside.”
	Prest. Sperry said, “Our sisters thought at
one time that they could not come to the front
and speak in public, but now we see them
there, and they give advice that will benefit
old and young. It is necessary to become good
students, and prepare for events in the future.
Those who stand faithful will be likened to
gold seven times tried in the furnace. The
sisters have no voice in the government, but
there are men enough to carry the day if they
will do their duty. There is more prospect of
Utah becoming a State than there ever was be-
fore. The Lord is turning the scales in our
favor.”
	The Stake and local officers were sustained
by united vote. Singing. “O God, we raise to
Thee.” Bishop Aagard pronounced the bene-
diction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
				NEPHI.
	The afternoon of the 23rd was devoted to the
celebration of the 19th anniversary of the
Nephi Relief Society. An excellent programme
was rendered, consisting of songs, recitations,
toasts, instrumental music and short speeches.
The annual report was read, which gave much
satisfaction. It showed that the sisters appre-
ciate their calling, and are energetically labor-
ing to discharge their duties. The report shows
$694.69 received, and $672.16 disbursed.
	Wishing you abundant success in your labors,
we are,
	Your co-workers in the cause of Zion,
	MARY PITCHFORTH, Stake Prest.,
	M. E. TEASDALE, Branch Sec.

	JUAB Y. L. M. I. A.
	The Young Ladies of Juab Stake held their
quarterly conference in the Nephi meeting
house, June 24th, 1887. The meeting was pre-
sided over by Sister M. E. Teasdale, Stake
President. After the usual opening exercises
of singing and prayer, the minutes of the pre-
vious conference were read and approved. A

[Column 3]
programme, previously arranged, was well exe-
cuted by the members of the several wards
throughout the Stake. This consisted of songs,
readings, recitations, organ solos, and the read-
ing of the “Young Ladies’ Manuscript Jour-
nal,” interspersed with short addresses by the
members.
	The meeting was also addressed by Sister
Mary Pitchforth, Bro. James Picton and Coun.
Charles Sperry of this Stake. Each gave ex-
cellent instruction to the young people, and
showed that these organizations were formed
for their special benefit, and encouraged them
to attend strictly to their duties in the same.
Verbal reports of the several wards were given,
showing a steady improvement of those attend-
ing the weekly meetings.
	Sister M. E. Neff, Prest. of the Nephi Asso-
ciation, tendered her resignation with regret,
on account of inability to attend to her many
duties. Her resignation was accepted, and
Miss Lizzie Schofield sustained to fill that posi-
tion.
	The Stake and local officers were then pre-
sented and sustained unanimously.
	After the close of the meeting, the officers
and members, and other invited guests, assem-
bled in the Relief Society Hall to partake of
strawberries and ice cream, prepared by the
young ladies in commemoration of the twelfth
anniversary of their organization.
	The days’ enjoyment closed with a ball in
the evening, under the auspices of the Y. L.
M. I. A.
					M. E. SCHOFIELD, Sec.


39	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OCEAN LETTER.

Atlantic Ocean,
Steam Ship “Wisconsin,”
July 9, 1887.


DEAR SISTER LULA:
	The sea does not agree with me well, but I
am blest with good, kind friends, who help me
to think of better things than my sick self; for
instance, Brother Batty has suggested that if
I would write some verses he would put music
to them, and we would have a song. The fol-
lowing are the lines I have written; my first at-
tempt at song writing:

SONG OF THE MORMON MISSIONARIES.
	JUNE, 1887.
Fifty years, just, have pass’d since the first “Mormon”
Elders
Went forth to Great Britain in these Latter-days,
Endowed with the Priesthood, inspired from heaven,
To show the fallacious and false priestcraft ways.

In June thirty-seven those brethren started—
’Twas Heber and Willard and Orson, we’re told;
Apostles sent forth to teach Faith and Repentance,
And then to Baptize, like Apostles of old.

In the same month and year the beloved Queen Victoria
Ascended the throne in youth’s fair purity;
She still holds her queenhood, beloved by her nation—
This year, eighty-seven, is her grand Jubilee.

Our company now on the way to Great Britian,
Expecting to witness the Queen's Jubilee,
In contrast to those who went at her crowning,
Lacks only a unit of fifty and three.

But our mission to-day is the same as the first one,
To preach the glad tidings of joy to mankind;
And if there should still be one honest and humble,
It will be our delight that stray sheep to find.

Let us stand firm and true to our covenants and priest-
hood,
Relying on Jesus for strength and support;
No matter how vile or untrue accusations,
May follow our message in hamlet or court.

And honor to Joseph, of God called and chosen,
To bring forth the Gospel in these Latter-days.


And send it abroad unto all tongues and nations,
	That mortals might learn of God’s holy ways.
								D. K. GREENE.
	66, Moorside Lane,
	Swinton, near Manchester, England,
	July 1st, 1887.
*	*	*	*	*	*
	Great trouble awaits the people here if it
does not rain soon. Several mills have already
stopped work for want of water, and others will
have to ere long. Everything and everybody
here are watered by reservoirs.
	All I see and learn convinces me more and
more that the Lord will cut short His work in
righteousness, and I want to help Him all I
can. I tried my lungs in the open air at a
place called Moses’ Gate. We are going to
hold an out door meeting this evening at Eccles,
about three miles from here.
	Affectionate regards to all who know and
care for me.
	Your brother, as ever,
	DANIEL K. GREENE.


40	WOMAN'S EXPONENT


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


LITERARY WORK OF MISS CLEVE
LAND.

	Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland has recently
become associated with the historian, Mrs.
Martha J. Lamb, in the editorial work of the
Magazine of American History.
	Miss Cleveland has a fondness and aptitude
for this style of writing, and will, without
doubt, enter upon her work in this specific
field of literature with that freshness and zeal
that has a peculiar charm, and the earnestness
and determination that ensures success. She feels
deeply whatever she writes, and that always helps
those who read, the spirit in which one writes,
tells forcibly in the subject matter rehearsed
or discussed, and in history the manner of tell-
ing equally with the facts, impresses the reader.
We sincerely congratulate Miss Cleveland, and
feel sure that the work she has undertaken is
in good hands, and will be well done.
	Miss Cleveland’s name in the Magazine work
will be associated with that of some of the
most learned men and greatest writers of
American Literature of the age, men whose
names have been for long years familiar to the
public. It is gratifying to know that there are
women with the ability and courage to under-
take such work, and they deserve the praise
and the esteem of their contemparary country-
women.—ED.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Oberlin College held its fifty-fourth Com-
mencement this year.


﻿Nine bodies of an ancient tribe of men
have been discovered in a cave in Caton, New
York.
	A church organ constructed entirely of
paper is on exhibition at Milan. It was the
invention of a priest.
	The Queen of Roumania honored Queen
Victoria’s Jubilee by translating Victoria’s
journal into Roumanian, and publishing it in
a cheap edition.
	Princess Victoria, wife of the German Crown
Prince, presented the commencement prizes at
the Norwood School for the Blind, in London,
July 8.
	Queen Victoria has taken to carrying a
walking stick, not for vanity, but because she
needs its support. It is not like the pretty
jeweled affair which Eugenie used to manage
so gracefully in her days of pride, but a plain,
black, crutch-headed stick meant for use.
	Mrs. Hannah Stone, the oldest resident of
Worcester, Mass., who died recently, was born
at Dorchester, August 31, 1787. She married
Samuel Stone in 1805, and lived at Eden,
Vt., for the next fifteen years. She was left a
widow in 1820, with six small children. Her
descendants, to the fifth generation, are living
in Vermont.
	A man in LaFayette, Ind., was recently
granted a divorce from his wife on the ground
that she was an inveterate smoker and user
of tobacco. The Woman’s Standard thinks
that “if the wives of all men who are addicted
to its use should seek to be released from matri-
monial bonds on that account, the courts would
be in permanent session, and lawyers would be-
come immensely wealthy.”


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and 
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store, 
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to 
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


[Column 1]
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
	Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which
	can also be reached by Telephone  No. 269.

[Column 2]
﻿R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.
ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

		Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
		MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE, Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS, 
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s shoes.
	112,114,116,118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

