VOL. 16.		   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1887.		    No. 4.


PEACEABLE FRUIT.

"Never the less afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of
	righteousness."—Hebrews 12: 11. 

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
	For this dark and suffering night?
Father, what shall Thine "afterward" be?
Hast Thou a morning joy for me,
	And a new and joyous light?

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
	For the moan that I cannot stay?
Wilt Thou turn it to some new song of praise,
Sweeter than sorrowless hearts could raise, 
	When the night hath passed away?

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord,
	How long must Thy child endure?
Thou knowest ! 'tis well that I know it not !
Thine "afterward" cometh; I can not tell what,
	But I know that Thy word is sure.

What shall Thine "afterward" be, O Lord?
	I wonder and wait to see;
(While to Thy chastening hand I bow)
What "peaceable fruit" may be ripening now,
	Ripening fast for me?—Selected
						M. R. J.


ENDURANCE
How much the heart may bear and yet not break.
	How much the flesh may suffer and not die;
I question much if any pain or ache
	Of soul or body brings the end more nigh.
		Death chooses his own time; till that is worn
		All evils may be borne.

We shrink and shudder at the surgeon's knife,
	Each nerve recoiling from the cruel steel,
Whose edge seemed searching for the quivering life;
	Yet to our sense the bitter pangs reveal
		That still, although the trembling flesh be torn,
		This, also, can be borne.

We see a sorrow rising in our way,
	And try to fly from the approaching ill;
We seek some small escape—we weep and pray—
	But when the blow falls, then our hearts are still;
		Not that the pain is of its sharpness shorn,
		But that it can be borne.

We wind our life about another life,
	We hold it closer, dearer than our own,
Anon it faints and falls in deadly strife,
	Leaving us stunned and stricken and alone;
		But oh! we do not die with those we mourn—
		This, also, can be borne.

Behold! we live through all things—famine, thirst,
	Bereavement, pain! all grief and misery,
All woe and sorrow; life inflicts its worst 
	On soul and body, but we cannot die,
		Though we be sick and tired, and faint and worn;
		Lo! all things can be borne.
						ELIZABETH AKERS ALLEN.


[column 1]
A FEW THOUGHTS.

DEAR EDITOR:
     I feel quite guilty in neglecting to write for
our paper for so long a time.  It has not been 
because I had not a desire to help maintain
[column 2]
our paper, the rights of the women of Utah,
or the principles of the Gospel.  I am fully
aware of the necessity there is of every one be-
ing alive to their duties, and it is the duty of
every one who bears the name of Latter-day
Saint, to show their faith by their works, and
always be willing to use the talents the Lord
has given them for the benefit of the cause of
truth.
     We are living in a momentous time of the
world's history, and we cannot shut our eyes to
the fact that the end is fast approaching a con-
summation.  The events that are taking place
day by day, demonstrate beyond a doubt, that 
the Lord is working out His designs in His own
way; and the question with us is, "Are we pre-
pared?  Have we oil in our lamps?  Do we
realize the magnitude of the responsibility rest-
ing upon us as Saints?  Do we keep up with
the spirit of the times, or are we asleep, using
our time, energy, and talents in folly and
fashion?"  The exigency of the times calls for 
all the energies of the Saints to be concentrated
upon their religion, and the maintenance of
what few rights we have left.
     The rulers of the nation have seen fit to de-
prive us of the right of FRANCHISE, because we
did not fulfill their expectations in catering to
their ideas, but used our right, as free born
women should, for the establishment of pure
principles, of equal rights, of a virtuous com-
munity, and the selection of men for office that
would secure to us these heaven-born principles.
They preferred no charge against us, but took
from us this right without giving us the
chance to defend ourselves, the right perserva-
tive of all other rights, because of our opinions.
And will we submit?  Yes, under protest, leav-
ing our cause in the Almighty ruler's hand,
knowing He will deal out justice and equity
to all.  We claim that it is unconstitutional;
we claim that we have a right to our belief
untramelled.
     The Constitution plainly states that "the
FRANCHISE once given cannot be taken away;"
it becomes our property, a part of our posses-
sions, and the loss of it deprives us of what
was our own individually. One must prove a
person guilty of treason before he or she can
constitutionally be deprived of this right.  And
in what does treason consist?  "In levying war,
or giving aid and comfort to the enemies of the
United States."  Senators and statesmen of a 
great nation must be terrible cowards to be
afraid that the women of Utah would "levy
war against the United States."  Oh, consist-
ency, thou art a jewel!
     We find, by referring to the law, that all
persons born or naturalized in the United
States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof,
are citizens of the United States, and that no 
law shall be made to deprive them of life,
liberty or property, or the equal protection of 
the law."  What a falling away from the spirit
and design of the Constitution!  We revere
that sacred document as heaven born; we be-
lieve the men that formed it were inspired of
God to do just what they did, and we will
teach our sons and daughters to love it, to de-
fend it, and let freedom and equal rights be
their watchword.  We will teach them that
every man and woman are born free and equal;
that God, the Father of their spirits, made
them free; that the Constitution makes them
free, and that the Gospel makes them free, and
that they are the slaves of no faction, but inde-

[column 3]
pendent, with the right to worship God in the
way that he marks out.
     How like to olden times is the present.
Then it was a band of pilgrims flying from the
arbitrary rule of the Stuarts--a band of hum-
ble and peaceable religionists flying from cause-
less oppression!  It was conscience attempting 
to escape from arbitrary despotism, a Robinson,
a Brewster, leading of a little band from their 
native soil to find a shelter in an unknown land,
where they could enjoy religious freedom.  How
like to the little band of Saints who left their 
homes in the east, driven from state to state,
until they were driven beyond the confines of
the United States, and when, after surmounting 
untold difficulties, braving a thousand dangers,
and suffering the pangs of hunger and sickness,
they found a home in these mountains, and
with their love of liberty unfurled the stars
and stripes to the breeze, and pledged their
lives, their honor, their all to defend it.  What
a noble band! when they had suffered so much
at the hands of the nation, left their loved ones
in unmarked graves on the plains, their young
children, men and maidens, grey haired fathers
and mothers deprived of their homes and pos-
sessions, and driven at the point of the gun in-
to the wilderness to find a home, yet they cling
to the old flag.
     And now when we have made the valley to
blossom as the rose, and this barren waste a
fruitful field, they would take our all.  We,
like the Pilgrim Fathers, put our trust in our
Father, the Supreme Ruler, knowing He will
defend our rights and deal out justice and
equity to all.  We know that God lives, and
that He has revealed Himself to man in this 
day, and we know we have seen His power
made manifest, and make bold to declare it to
all nations, and if we obey His laws we shall
be saved at the last day; we have proved it to
be true, and though men may deride and scoff,
yet we still know that it is the power of God
unto salvation to all that believe, and con-
demnation to those who reject it.
     Praying for the success of our paper, the
EXPONENT of the rights of the women of
Utah,  I am, 
     Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	A. Bronson Alcott will spend the summer
with his daughter, Mrs. Pratt, at Melrose,
Mass.  He is no longer able to hold a pen, and
does all his work by dictation.

	In the Exhibition of the Royal Academy
of Arts, London, of the paintings and sculp-
tures over 1,900 in number, 242 are the works
of women. It is only fifteen years, since women
artists were admitted to the Royal Academy.

	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe emphatically
denies the story which is circulating to the ef-
fect that she could never have written "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" if she had known the colored
people as she knows them now; after a resi-
dence at the South.

	Lillian Whiting says "The time is almost
gone by for the discussion of whether women
want or do not want the ballot. They will
have it whether they desire it or not. And
the true wisdom is to study to find how to use


this extension of power, that is sure to come
in the near future(?).

	Miss Agnata Ramsay, of Girton College, has
been awarded the first rank classics at Cam-
bridge, England. She has surpassed all the
male students in classics, being the only one of
either sex to pass in the first division. Her
father, Sir James Ramsay, a Scotch baronet,
and her uncle, Professor George Ramsay, of
Glasgow University, each obtained a first-class
in classics when they took their degrees at Ox-
ford. Miss Ramsay has just reached twenty
years,and several her male competitors were
older. Her proficiency in Latin and Greek
were equal.

	In Cuba a woman never loses her maiden
name. After marriage she adds her husband's
name to her own. In being spoken of she is
always called by her Christian and maiden 
names. To a stranger it is often quite a task
to find out whose wife a woman is. Never hear-
ing the wife called by the husband's name, one
naturally does not associate them together.
The children take the names of both parents,
but place the mother's name after the father's

	Mrs. Abba Goold Woolson recently read a
treatise on "The American Woman Abroad
and at Home," before the Lasell Alumnae Asso-
ciation, in which she ridiculed "our fashionable
women in aspiring to the ways and manners of
Ehglish women by  fearing to move in their
native land without a chaperone." The Bos-
ton Home Journal says: "Mrs. Woolson does 
not need a chaperone, but there are a great
many women and girls who do need sensible
female guardians  to keep them from making
themselves ridiculous."

	Mrs. Julia Smith, of Glastonbury, Conn.,
bequeathed the famous Jersey cows to her hus-
band, but gave to Mrs. Jane H. Spafford, of
the Riggs House, Washington, "my silk bed-
quilt, containing 7,000 pieces; to Mrs. James
Noble, of Westfield, Mass., the Wallingford
table-cloth, without a seam, spun by myself 
and sister, and the one hundred and twenty
years old bed-quilt of dimity, made by my
grandmother before her marriage, who spun
and wove the lining and quilted the same."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A SURPRISE AND A REORGANIZA-
				TION.

	On April 27th last the members of the Re-
lief Society of Graham, Arizona, met at the
residence of President Annie Jorgansen to
give her a surprise before she left, as she was
making preparations to join her husband, he
having been in Mexico two years. She was on
a visit to her daughter’s, ten miles distant, so
she was completely surprised on her return
home to find the house crowded with sisters, and
the tables loaded with good things.
	After all were seated, a few appropriate lines
were read by the Secretary, and Sister Jorgan-
sen was presented by the R. S. with a large
portrait of our late President, Brigham Yonng,
handsomely framed. She responded in a very
impressive manner, thanking the sisters for
their kindness to herself and family. After
an hour or two spent in pleasant conversation,
the company dispersed, wishing Sister Jorgan-
sen a pleasant journey and health and happiness
in her new home.
	May 4th President Wilmirth East, Counselor
Mary L. Ransome and Stake Secretary, Lucinda
Gustaverson, met with the sisters to assist the
Bishop reorganize the Relief Society. Sister
Pauline Freestone was chosen President, with
Vercy Stelle and Mary Peterson, Counselors;
M. E. Skinner, Secretary; Martha Mulanare,
Treasurer.


Presidents East and Ransome each made
very encouraging remarks after a few words of
counsel by Bishop Peterson. Sister Gustaver-
son gave some advice to the Secretary; the
meeting was dismissed, all feeling that we had
had a time of rejoicing long to be remem-
bered.
	We have had some sickness of late, and two
of our brethren and one little girl have been
laid to rest in this settlement. Previous to
last month we had three deaths in six years,
but we could not expect to be always so
favored.
	Ever praying for the cause of truth, and
success to the EXPONENT, I remain,
		Your sister in the covenant,
			MARY E. SKINNER.
June 27, 1887.


﻿WOMEN IN THE EAST.
	“Constantinople,” says Postmaster Leeds, “is
the seat of the Mohammedan religion, but we
must go to the interior to see the customs and
religion of the people in the true light; for the
foreigners in Constantinople have had some, ef-
fect on the manners of the people. Take for
instance the veils worn by the women—for all
women are veiled in that country. In the inte
rior it is of heavy cloth covered with horrid
figures, that look hideous, while in Constantino-
ple it is delightfully thin and tends rather to
improve the looks.	
	The Sultan at the present time has 484
wives. He never marries, but the woman who
bears him the first male child he appoints his
sultana, and upon her confers the ring that
makes her the legitimate heir. When a young
man arrives at the proper age, and his mother
and sisters think that he needs a wife, they
look about to find one for him. At the time
of the ceremony she arrives, closely veiled, and
after the ceremony is performed he lifts the
veil and for the first time sees the face of his
wife. He has eight days in which to decide
if he is satisfied with her, and if not he returns
her to her parents. A divorce is a mere snap
of the finger.—Palladium, New Haven.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.
	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the “French Craze” for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


﻿It is a good rule to be deaf when a slanderer
begins to talk.

	Poetry is the frolic of invention. the dance
of words, and the harmony of sounds.—F.
Reynolds.

	A house is no home unless it contains food
for the mind as well as food for the body.—
Margaret Fuller.
	Cheerfulness is the bright weather of the
heart. Pleasant, cheerful conversation should
be the rule at the table. It is a breech of good
breeding for one member of the family to sit
down at the table and silently read the daily
paper.—Saxe.


OBITUARY.

	We, the sisters of the Mantua Relief Society, Box Elder
Stake, Utah, have formed Resolutions in behalf of our de-
parted sister and president, Margretta Keller, who de_
parted this life on June 19th, 1887. She was born the 27th
of February, 1836, in Veibj, Frederikborg, Amt, Denmark,
and embraced the Gospel of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints June 24th, 1854; emigrated to Utah in the year of
1855; endured the toil and hardships of eleven months
travel; was married in the year 1856, and raised nine child-
ren, of whom two have gone before her. She was chosen
President of the R. S. April 26, 1874, and has held that
position as a faithful Saint ever since, and nothing but
sickness prevented her from attending her meetings.
	We now bid farewell to our leader and sister, Margretta
Keller, that now is called home to our Father to rest from
this world's labor and toil; home to a better place of rest
and peace. The Lord saw thy work done here on earth,
thou hast remained true in life, wast a comfort to the poor,
a help to the sick and a leader to us all.
	As our President we miss thee in our association, but the
Lord had a better place for thee to work in. Thou hast
suffered extreme pain with great patience, thy prayers and
desires were to thy God; thy faith in Him was great and
steadfast, for it was built upon a rock.
	Thou art missed by thy husband and children—thou wert
a loving and faithful mother, and an example thou hast
been to thy sisters, virtuous, merciful and righteous in thy
dealings; known for thine energy and plainness. It will al-
ways be remembered by the sisters of the Mantua Relief
Society, and thou art now numbered among the blessed.
	In the days of sorrow the Father took thee; thou hast
conquered strife, and now art free. His will was done
on earth, and although we feel the loss of thee, yet in
hope we rejoice, and trust we, too, may prove faithful to
the end, that we may gain a place with thee in the
presence of our Father. Here we stand with sorrowfull
hearts by the grave of our dear President; we part, but
it is a comfort to our grief that thou hast found sweet
relief; thou feared not death, for thou hadst found favor
with thy God.
	The sisters of Mantua Relief Society.
					CHRISTINE JENSEN, First Coun.,
					JULIANE C. CHRISTIANSEN, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LOUIE.

Like the flight of a star fell the word—thou wert gone!
And a shade crossed the heart, as a storm hides the dawn.
And, as leaves hurry past on the wings of the wind,
'Mid rain drops (and tear drops), came swift to the mind
Remembrances thronging, sweet witness to bear
Of the bliss of the past and the present's despair.
Like echoes that linger, or dreams that enthrall,
Come hovering 'round me their images all:		
The gentle, sweet kindness to youth and to age,
To the lowly and needy—ah! tears dim the page;
The voice whose sweet purity, bird-like and clear,
Sank deep in the soul as we listened to hear;
The pictures that grew 'neath thy pencil to view,
Still speak of thy spirit's work, lovely and true.
If I look through thy home thou art gone yet art there,
And the silent keys wait for thy voice on the air.
Nay, these rooms are not empty when one we have known,
Though invisible, still lingers here 'mid her own;
Where a loved one hath been, there forever remains
That spirit’s communion 'mid memory’s pains.

How often in reverie have I recalled
One night amid friends, Louie, fairest of all,
Sang tenderly, purely, one song whose refrain—
Was’t prophetic of after years' trial and pain?
Sad words for young lips: "’Twas the voice of her God,
"I love thee, I love thee I pass under the rod.”
And another—a song of fair Italy’s own—
How it rose from thy lips in love’s full, richest tone:
Did it whisper again when night shadowed thy soul
And lonely—"Should doubts my heart control?”

Love decked all thy years with its tenderest care,
Graces, virtues and gifts made thy womanhood fair;
Where music and footlights their votaries drew,
Thy soul’s living melody thrilled them anew;
But the rapture is hushed and the sweet voice is stilled,
The measure of life and its triumphs are filled. 

Where the wonders and beauty and wealth of the world
In bounty are lavished, in splendor unfurled,
Where the beat of the ocean throbbed back to her soul,
Where the billows of God in their majesty rolled.
Thy soul waited and watched. Lo ! across the white sand
The sun threw a path to the Wonderful Land,
O’er the billows of sorrow that washed the long beach
A form seemed to come and a hand seemed to reach;
O, sweeter and surer than earth love's dear tone
The call and the promise that made thee His own;
Far away from the wavering paths that we tread,
To where bliss never fades, where tears never are shed,
The messenger led, 'til thy feet once more trod
'Mid welcomes—the home of the Father and God.

Ah ! this picture I hold, which the magical sun
Caught and kept of thy face, of its charms only one;
Yet it lives as I gaze, till I see thee again,
Ever changing in beauty. as thought changed, and then 
Those eyes seem to answer—as reading me through—
The heart never questions the friend that is true. 
O, its calmness and beauty half chide as I dream,
For the lips wear their smiles, and the loving eyes beam
With faith, hope and charity steadfast and sure,
Sweet tokens that halo the heart that is pure.
Thou wert beautiful here, thou art lovelier there,
Thy cross laid aside, thy crown now to wear.

Farewell! 'til we meet, oft will memory bring
To the door of my heart on the night’s silent wing,
Sweet dreamy cadences, that lullaby keep  
To the beautiful eyes in their heavenly sleep.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, July 19, 1887.


﻿THE BIBLE.

	This book is called by some people a precious
volume, by others a worthless production. And
why this great difference of opinion? The first
consider it precious because from its sacred
pages they study the character of our Heavenly
Father, and His designs and purposes concern-
ing the human family; and since it was the re-
quest of an alwise Providence that His words
should be written, would it not be unwiso in us
to neglect to read the same?
	It certainly would be, for two reasons, one
of which is, that by reading those instructions


we develop the germ of the Deity, which all
possess, as also our reasoning powers. Our
Savior once said, “Search the Scriptures, for in
them ye think ye have eternal life, and these
are they which testify of me.” Another one is,
He also gives a portion of His Spirit to those
who earnestly seek to know His will.
	With this spirit we will more readily compre-
hend the importance of our mission to earth,
and how to fill our positions properly. He
judges us by the motives and intents of the
heart, and knows what motives prompt us to
read, or to act under all circumstances.
	Since this is our faith, could we yield to infi-
delity? What enjoyment would we expect
from such a source of reasoning?
	Could we believe for a moment that any of
the human family were natural born infidels?
That they did not believe in an alwise Provi-
dence, whose designs and purposes are for the
good of all who will give attention to His
laws, and who is no respector of persons, yet
He may be of characters? Yet all must live
and learn.
	I would ask, “Which is the sane person?
The one who respects and obeys the Bible, or
the one who throws it aside without any re-
spect to its sacred lessons?” I acknowledge
that it has been a great comfort and guide
to me. I do not wish to loose that prop and
be left without any other to lean upon. You
will notice those who destroy it leave you with-
out anything else as a substitute. Not only so,
but seem to say, “You need not trouble your-
self about the laws of God; we can make laws
to suit your cause, that you must and shall
obey.” We find those who live by righteous
laws themselves are better judges to set others
aright
	I always prefer and would vote for those
rulers who obey God and keep His command-
ments. I feel at home in their presence, be-
cause I know what to expect from them, and
also what they expect from me. In applying
our mind to the Savior’s laws or rule of action
we gain confidence in each other which could
not otherwise exist.
	He was called faithful and true, and those
who seek to live by His laws, will partake of
the same spirit; and rejoice in the same advance-
ment, and they will surely advance.
	May the Lord preserve me from being under
the control of those who acknowledge no God
or laws of God only those manufactured at will.
They are too fluctuating and uncertain to think
of, much less to give attention to, or try to be-
come acquainted with.
		M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, July 5, 1887.


[Column 1]
	TRIALS AND TEMPTATIONS.

	It is an indisputable fact that we, as a people,
are being tried, and that our trials will increase
instead of diminish; and also, that we are sur-
rounded with temptations of almost every
name and nature. Our fathers having had re-
vealed unto them the principles of life and
salvation, saw the necessity of putting into
practice what they knew God had commanded;
and for so doing they and their doctrine came
in contact with religious bigots and the many
contaminating influences that were fast bring-
ing mankind down to a state of degradation
that is past all redemption.
	There always has and always will be a con-
fliction between truth and error. Holy men of
God in days gone by have been tried and per-
secuted for standing up in defense of truth, and 
in many instances have laid down their lives
for the sake of that same truth that we, as a
people, are being tried and persecuted for. 
	Because of our religion we were driven into
these once western wilds, and, as has been said,
“we came willingly, because we had to.” And
after having made the desert to blossom as the 
[Column 2]
rose, we are again infested with the same de-
grading influence. We have those among us
who are not for us, who are ready and willing
to oppose us in everything we undertake to
do that would be for the benefit and advance- 
ment of the human family. And here we
have saloons, where spirituous drinks are dealt
out to all, both old and young, who will degrade
themselves by going there and partaking there-
of. And also places for gambling are to be
found in those dens or saloons, and there the
unsuspecting youth are persuaded to indulge,
to give way to these evil desires. And there
profanity is indulged in, and becomes a common
thing with those who resort there. Now, the
question naturally arises, “Why are these evils
and wicked practices carried on in Zion among
the honest in heart?” I am willing to acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things. The
Lord has said that He would have a tried peo-
ple.
	The older portion of the community have
been tried in many ways, and it is necessary
that the younger portion be tried else. If we
do not taste the bitter we will not be able to
appreciate the sweet. If we had no tempta-
tions we would have no trials, and therefore
the word of the Lord would not be fulfilled.
If we are particularly weak on some particular
point, that is just where we are going to be
tried; so it behooves us to be on our guard, and
ever watch and pray that we will not be tried
more than we will be able to bear. “Blessed is
he that overcometh.” We should strive with
all our might, minds and strength to overcome
and rid ourselves of all our weaknesses and
imperfections. When Alexander the Great
had conquered the world, it is said that he sat
down and wept because there were no other
countries and kingdoms for him to subdue. But,
alas! he who was the master of the world, at
whose feet kings and nobles lay prostrate, he
who was esteemed the greatest and grandest
goneral living, failed to accomplish that all
important fete, and that was to master himself,
thus losing the commendation of all wise men,
“That he who governs himself is greater than
he who taketh a city.” He who will resist evil
temptations and overcome his weaknesses is
the persou whom the Lord will bless, sustain
and be pleased to own. And being surrounded
with so many Satanic influences it is our duty
to heed the injunction of the Apostle Paul,
when he says, “Above all, take unto yourselves
the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able
to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.”
And always remember that the tender, warning
voice of our guardian angels are ever striving
to hush the siren tones of the tempting world.
	I pray that we, as young people in Israel,
may be able to understand our true situations,
and that we may put on the whose armor of
God, and walk uprightly before Him in all
things, and I know that the time will come
when it will be said, “The victory is ours.
Truth hath prevailed.  		A. CAZIER.
	Nephi.


You cannot read history, unless you read it
upside down, without admitting that woman,
cramped, fettered, excluded, degraded as she
has been, has yet sometimes, with one ray of
her instinctive genius, done more to settle great
questions than all the cumbrous intellect of
the other sex has achieved.—Wendell Phillips.
	Poetry reveals to us the loveliness of nature
brings back the freshness of youthful feeling,
revives the relish of simple pleasures, keeps
unquenched the enthusiasm which warmed the
springtime of our being, refines youthful love,
strengthens our interest in human nature by
vivid delineations of its tenderest and softest
feelings, and through the brightness of its
prophetic visions helps faith to lay hold on the
future life.-—Channing.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.
Woman’s Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten 
copies for the price of nine. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount 
o regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to 	
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH. 
SALT LAKE CITY, 			JULY 15, 1887.


INDEPENDENCE DAY.

	The celebration on the 4th of July made quite
a display on the streets,and in Liberty Park where
the people assembled, everything went off satis-
factorily to all. The procession was the great
feature, hundreds of people crowded the sidewalks
in carriages and on foot to see the parade, and all
appeared to enjoy the music and the sight-seeing
and to appreciate the occasion to its utmost. At
the head of the procession was Col. Page, Mar-
shall of the day with a cavalcade of horsemen.
Held’s band came next playing national music;
following the band were carriages containing offi-
cials Gov. West, Ex-Gov. Murray, Chief Justice
Zane, Secretary Hall, James H. Moyle Esq. The
Utah Commission, County officers and members
of the Constitutional Convention and other promi-
nent men and citizens. Then came Capt. Bishop
and a number of horsemen,the City Band Knights
of Pythias in full dress uniform, and next the
Colonial Car with the Goddess of Liberty, Miss
Celia Swenson personating the Goddess, and
thirteen other young girls representing the thir-
teen original states; the car was gorgously orna-
mented and sailors and fairies in costume at the
four corners gave it a very handsome appearance.
Another elaborately trimmed car followed, filled
with young ladies who each carried a streamer
having on it a name of one of the states of the
Union. Next came the Fire Brigade and then
the Base Ball Clubs all in uniform and the Loco
motive Engineers; these made quite a display with
their bright gay uniforms. Next in the parade
was the car filled with young ladies, designated
the Bouquet of Beauty. After this the trade dis-
plays and manufacturers fifteen or twenty vehicles
and machines. The showing in these was excel-
lent and they were arranged in good taste, with
banners, mottoes etc. emblematic of what they
represented. The last part of the procession
was styled the Antiques and Horribles, compris-
ing the absurd,humorous and oddities interspersed
very rarely with the beautiful, all, however, help-
ing to make variety to suit the taste of all who
congregated to witness the parade and celebrate
the day.
	On the Grand Stand at the Park the Federal
Officials and officers of the day,city and county offi-
cers and citizens were seated, the assembly was
called to order and first addressed by Gen. Eli H.
Murray; Prayer by Rev.T.C.Iliff; John M. Young
read the Declaration of Independence and the
band played “The Star Spangled Banner." Gov. 
West then delivered an oration; after he had con-
cluded his address T. E. Harper sung the Star
Spangled Banner; the next speech was from
Judge Zane,followed by one from James H. Moyle;
the band then played some soul stirring music and
the anthem America was rendered in an effective
and impressive manner by G. D. Pyper, M. J.
Thomas, Bessie Dean and Maggie Hull. This
completed the programme when the benediction
was prononnced by Rev. Ilift. This closed the
proceedings of the day at the Park.


﻿There was the usual applause and cheering and
so forth, and on the whole the day was an agreea-
ble one to all interested. The zeal and en-
thusiasm over Independence Day never dies out
in the heart of an American, no matter what
their position in life or circumstances may be. It
is a part of their nature born in them and inherited
from generation to generation.
   The display of fire works on Arsenal Hill in
the evening is said to have been the very best and
finest as well as most costly ever seen in this city.
There were very fine displays at several residences
in various parts of town and altogether the day
was a most enjoyable one.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL THOUGHTS. 

	The Constitutional Convention which met on 
June 30, adjourned on the 6th of July having com-
pleted the work undertaken by its members, viz., 
the framing of a Constitution to be submitted to 
the vote of the people and afterwards presented to 
the President and Congress of the United States
asking that Utah be admitted into the Union of 
States. This is the sixth Constitution framed and 
will be the sixth time the people of Utah have
sought to obtain a state government. The people
are entitled to recognition and no good reason can
be urged against the admission of this Territory. 
Everything is favorable so far as the condition 
of the Territory itself is concerned for it is abun-
dantly able to take upon itself the added responsi-
bility of statehood. 
	The new Constitution adopted by the Convention 
and which will undoubtedly be ratified by the peo-
ple at the coming election in August is in strict
conformity with the laws and regulations of other
states. What pretext any fair-minded person can 
conjure up against it, it is impossible at this time 
to imagine. It remains, however, to be proven
what will be done with the new Constitution 
if it is ratified by the people. It will certainly 
be objectionable to a certain class of men, who 
have made and are still trying to make so much
capital out of Mormonism as a hobby. One would
naturally think the topic had worn threadbare
long ago, but there are those who seem to think
they can gain notoriety, money and fame by "ex-
posing Mormonistm," as they call it, as if after all 
these years of half a century and more the people
had not become accustomed to the stale stories
circulated and reiterated so often. If congress
should happen to settle this matter of statehood
by admitting Utah and she should have the
opportunity of electing men to the highest offices
in the gift of the people or exercise a little home
rule one cannot help wondering what will become 
of some of the men, who for so many years have
followed the occupation of exposing Mormonism
to Congress and the fifty millions of people in the
United States. They will certainly take up a new
phase of the question or adopt some other method
for getting a living. And then there are the anti-
Mormon women, who have become known as 
writers of sensational anti Mormon literature, and
delivering lectures on the "Mormon Monster" and
kindred topics, what will they find to talk about
and write about after having found that all their
well laid schemes to keep Utah and the Mormons
out of the Union have failed. We shall see in 
good time. They have fretted and worried them-
selves a great deal over the affairs of the Mor-
mons, strange, too, when one considers how well 
satisfied they are to live next door to those "poor, 
degraded, ignorant creatures." One would think 
they would prefer to go elsewhere, but no, they 
are glad enough to settle down on the land that
the Mormons redeemed from the desert, and sub-
dued making it habitable; "this country belongs
to the United States and should be for the loyal citi-
zens." etc.,etc.;this is the sort of language used by 
one of the great men of the nation; well, the Mor-
mons belong to the United States the majority of 

[Column 2]
the citizens of this fair Territory were born under
the stars and stripes, many were born here in 
Utah and ought to be entitled to some privileges
and rights, and therefore there is little need to talk
about taking away the country for somebody else
while the veritable owners who have bought and
paid for their lands and built their homes are in 
possession.
	It is, perhaps, very fortunate for the Mormons
that there are some sensible people left yet, even
among the most noted men in the United States
who think this people have rights that ought to be 
respected and are not afraid to say so. But with
the Lord on the side of the Latter-day Saints, and
they feel fully assured of that fact, what cause
have they to fear? None whatever while they
walk according to the teachings and instructions 
He has given unto them through His servants
who preside over His Church upon the earth. 
Let come what will come, it will all work together
for the good of His people inthe end; and no man, 
or body of men, or governments, or principalities, 
or powers can hinder or stop the progress of the
Gospel upon the earth, for this Gospel, the same
Gospel the Savior taught, the Gospel preached by 
the "Mormon" Elders, so called, shall be preached
unto all nations and then shall the end come. And
all nations shall then acknowledge God and
His power and authority, for it is said, "every
knee shall bow and every tongue confess" etc. 
	This people are not staking their all upon be-
coming a state, as some of the outside seem to 
think, no indeed. The Latter-day Saints place
their trust in one who orders all things, and who 
will deal out even-handed justice to all, and 
whether the President and Congress and people
of these United States are willing to admit Utah
as a State or not will make no difference with the
work of God established in these last days, never
to be thrown down or given to another people.


﻿EDITORIAL NOTES.
	WE invite the young and the old and the middle
aged to contribute to the paper, giving the benefit 
of their best thoughts and ideas to those who
read, that it may be even more fully the EXPON-
ENT of the views and opinions of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The paper is
circulated far and wide, and we want it to contain
the best and truest principles, clearly and vividly 
set forth, that it may be a missionary in the homes
of the Saints, and wherever it may find a place
abroad among the people of the world, or in the
hands of the tourist and "the stranger within our
gates," of whom, in these days, there are a multi-
tude from time to time.
	REPORTS of conferences from the Relief Society
of Bear Lake Stake and the R. S.
and Y. L. M. I. A. of Juab Stake, and of the
district conference of Relief Society held at Wells-
ville, will appear in our next issue of the paper.
We have some verses and other articles on hand,
that will appear in good time, and some not exactly 
suitable for our little paper, but which contain ex-
cellent thoughts suited to the occasion for which
they were written and read. The Primary Band
in Richmond sent us the verses written for them;
these will be printed on slips of paper and dis-
tributed to the little folks, and in this way we feel
sure they will be more acceptable, and do more
good to the little fellows than if published in the
EXPONENT.
	THERE have been some material changes made
recently in the Deseret Hospital, which it is hoped
and believed will be an advantage to the institution.
For some time past there has not been a surgeon
or physician resident in the house, but the Board
of Directors have secured the services of Dr. Ro-
mania B. Pratt, well known in the city and terri-
tory as a skillful practitioner, and she has been
duly installed as Resident Physician there, and
will have entire charge of the Hospital in all its


departments for the present, although it is the in-
tention, also, sometime in the near future, to have
a Medical Superintendent, but there is a good
strong corps of visiting physicians, who are always
ready and willing when called upon or assistance
is required, to come and do all in their power.
The Board feel very grateful to these surgeons
and physicians, both men and women, who have,
from time to time, attended operations and so
forth, and thus given time and valuable services
and influence to the Hospital, which is still, it may
be said, in its infancy, and has had rather a hard
struggle to keep up, but there seems a brighter
prospect at present. There are many of the
members of the Deseret Hospital Association
that have not yet paid the annual fee of member-
ship, and the President and Board of Directors
would be very glad if at this particular time, when
they are greatly in need of means, those whose
dues are not paid, would come forward and pay
or send the money to the Secretary, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Office WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Salt Lake
City, Utah. New memberships of either brethren
or sisters, are also earnestly solicited to assist in
this benevolent work and help sustain an institu-
tion where the sick and afflicted may be properly
nursed, cared for and treated by those who have
the spirit and influence of the Gospel.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S SPHERE.
	The word sphere, although relating to a limited
space, has quite an extensive meaning. The sun 
is called a sphere, and rightly, too; the planets
which comprise our solar system are spheres also,
and therefore the earth we occupy is a sphere.
The word also means, the circuit of action, of
knowledge, influence or power; having its bounds
and limits. Were it possible to step off the sur-
face of the earth into space, it might be said that
we had passed beyond this sphere, but we all
know this would be utterly impossible, hence we 
are confined to the circumference of the earth and
cannot go beyond it, at least not in our mortal 
state.
	Our existence, however, is a dual one. For
while the mortal part is limited to this earth and
cannot get beyond it, yet the immortal part can
reach out into space, can gaze upon and handle
with as much reality and comprehend with as
much certainty some things which we term
ethereal, as anything that we know naturally as
pertaining to this earth upon which we dwell. Yet
we are for the time being limited in our knowledge
as well as in our powers. While we are in the
midst of eternity, yet our progress in the knowl-
edge of eternal things is necessarily limited and
bounds are set from time to time limiting us in
our eternal progress within certain spheres, beyond
which for the time being we cannot pass no mat-
ter what our aspirations, or desires may be.
	Each woman possesses a separate and distinct
identity that cannot become any part of 
another identity. This identity is des-
tined to be preserved intact through all
the eternities that are to come and has
within it the elements of adaptation and fit-
ness to all conditions, both as pertaining to the
present as well as to the future. As we said we
are dual beings; yet is woman’s physical organism
—and although peculiar to herself—in most beauti-
ful harmony with her spiritual being. We are
speaking now of the entire race of womankind for
while individuals may be in some respects dissimi-
lar yet as a whole each individual very strongly
represents the other and it is not the single indi-
vidual that we are considering but woman as a 
whole.
	Although closely allied to man—and anomalous 
as it may appear—yet is her world or sphere dis-
tinct from his, as is plainly manifest in her entire 
life and being. Her desires, her hopes, her am-
[Column Two]
bitions, if at all correct, are decidedly womanly;
and when she assumes anything—either in speech
or conduct—that does not legitimately belong to
her she unsexes herself, and that, too, in the
ratio of such departure and is therefore to that ex-
tent outside of her proper sphere.
	Poets have made of woman an angel, while
satirists among many other things have declared
her to be an engima, neither of which is essentially
correct. Revelation teaches that there are elements
within her, which, when properly developed, will
take her far beyond any angelic condition or sphere,
while her true self is as plainly manifest as any
other fact when properly demonstrated.
	It is in the union of the sexes or the uniting of
woman with man, where the true study of woman
commences; all the other periods of her life are
simply preparatory to this grand climax of her
being and her completeness is not assured until
this goal is reached. Physical maturity may be
attained, it is true and so far we may justifiably
claim womanhood, but she is still lacking in com-
pleteness and this lack will always continue out-
side the marriage relation even should she live to
be a century old in this life, while in the future it
will still be more keenly felt. This fact as far as 
relates to this life is recognized the world over,
among the barbarians as well as the civilized; for
the spinster is generally made the butt of ridicule
and is often held in more or less contempt.
Woman's true sphere then, is wifehood and mother-
hood and everything pertaining to, or growing out
of these conditions is her natural element. How-
ever improved these conditions may become in
the future—as improved they will be—woman’s
advancement is dependent still upon these two 
conditions and is inseparably connected therewith
unless indeed she should choose to be an angel,
which is a condition very far below her true
sphere.
	There is incorporated in these two conditions
everything pertaining to her advancement, her
future queenly power, as well as a fulness of joy 
for evermore. In short, all that woman could de-
sire or crave or could possibly enjoy in the eter-
nities that are to come is incorporated and em-
bodied in these two conditions, while all her hopes
are centered therein and her fears and dreads in
this mortal life are as inseparably connected there-
with.
	The clamor that is made in the world to day
concerning "WOMAN'S RIGHTS" is in many
instances unwise and at the best relates to matters
that have but a feather’s weight as compared with
those all important interests involved in her being, 
and are unquestionably the result of a lack of 
true knowledge concerning herself. The all ab-
sorbing question abroad is, "Shall woman have
the right of franchise?" This is advocated with
such earnestness and zeal that we are almost led
to think that her whole existence and well being
depended upon this alone, while here in Utah with
the franchise taken away from us by Congress
after having possessed it for years, we make but
little ado, although we fully recognize the wrong
that has been thus inflicted upon us. Give woman
the franchise? Most certainly. In every State
and Territory of the Union as well as in every
part of the civilized world if she desires it and 
we declare that the ballot in the hands of women
would be as safe, as it now is in the hands of man
exclusively, and a little safer. But for the women
of Christendom to enter the political arena at this
time when cunning, chicanery, fraud and corrup-
tion flourish, would necessitate a cleansing first of
the Augean Stables which they would be prompted 
to attempt although the task would be an Hercu-
lean one. And all the world knows that woman's
faculty for removing dirt and filth is proverbial.
But there are a few things that some women have
advocated that appear to me to be altogether out
of place. For instance, a woman would make a 
very poor marshal, sheriff, or policeman, or con-
[Column Three]
stable; unless indeed the men who are liable to
arrest should willingly accompany her to a court
of justice or to jail, for her physical inferiority is
not adequate to this task, unless we except those
female Amazons that are only few in number and
for which we ought to feel very thankful.
	Neither is the judgment seat or the jury box any
part of woman's true sphere for besides many 
potent reasons that might be named; that stern
justice so necessary to be so often administered
seems to me altogether foreign to woman's nature
and the weighing of evidence, too,—often so very
conflicting—should, I think, be left to man whose
philosophical turn of mind admirably fits him for
both of these positions. I am not considering at
this time those corruptions and wrongs so often
exhibited by man, which might be elaborated at
great length but his very natural fitness for these
positions as against woman and vice versa.
	Woman makes a most excellent tutor of youth
and her services in a school board are of the
greatest value, while her very natural adaptation
to the sick room suggests that a thorough knowl-
edge of remedial agencies would make her all the
more efficient in this regard. From time imme-
morial has woman also been recognized as the 
most fitting and proper person to officiate in peri-
ods of accouchement which position involves a
most thorough and complete study of the science
of physiology, together with some knowledge of
anatomy; for ignorance in this regard becomes in
many instances criminal; human life being often
sacrificed in consequence. But as to woman's 
adaptability to become a surgeon in general has
always been a question in my mind. This I think
more legitimately belongs to the sterner sex. 
Those cases wherein woman has excelled in this
regard are the exception rather than the rule.
	We may claim, and perhaps justly too, that
woman's opportunities for the development of this
knowledge and skill have been very limited in the 
past, but the answer to this would be, that had
this been within woman's legitimate sphere she
surely would at some period during the past six
thousand years made exhibitions of the gift and
in so pronounced a manner, too, as to stamp her 
in this one instance at least the compeer of man,
for nature will show itself despite all obstacles.
	Now, my sisters, you cannot acuse me of selfish-
ness but must award to me that fairness which
I have sought to give this subject. Although I 
have been very concise and have noticed only a 
very few points among the many that might be 
named, I have not taken an abstract view of the
question but a general one and again assert, that I
firmly believe the legitimate sphere of woman is
ample for the development of all her powers, her
gifts and her natural endowments, and that within
these bounds can be found all the pleasures and
enjoyments necessary to her well being both here
and hereafter, and when the duties pertaining 
thereto shall have been fully performed we shall
arrive at that degree of fulness that constitutes
eternal felicity, and all within the circumference
of our own sphere. Therefore, WOMAN KNOW
THYSELF. 
							AUNT RUTH.


TIMELY REFLECTIONS.
	Aslant the misty morning air,through glittering 
circlets of rainbow hue, comes the glorious orb of
day peeping o’er yon snow-capped mountain peak,
casting its brilliant sheen o’er the teeming valley
below,where myriads of happy songsters are pour-
ing forth their glad welcome in a grand concert of
tuneful melody. Nature is all alive in radiant,
peaceful beauty, the discordant sounds of humani-
ty are hushed, the fragrance of bloom, the sound
of gently rushing waters, the glittering dewdrops
fill my senses with delight, and from the harmony
of sight and sound, my spirit gathers renewed
strength and buoyancy, and from my inmost soul


springs forth an anthem of thanksgiving and
praise for my birthplace, Zion, in whose develop-
ment and progress my greatest desires are cen-
tered. “Her people are my people, her God my
God'’, and under the direction of God’s inspired
servants all my labors shall be in union with those
who seek to establish Zion in righteousness. To
this end a still small voice whispers, “Neglect not
the gift within thee,” faint and undeveloped
though it be, its avenues of expression cramped
and crippled through lack of training and use and
the meagre facilities afforded for education before
the “desert blosomed like the rose," still a sense of
duty is urging on to action and endeavor. Thus
am I seated for a chat with the dear sisterhood of
Latter-day Saints, noble, intelligent, faithful and
God-fearing as I know them to be “with Improve-
ment our Motto and Perfection our Aim,” let us
reason together on subjects of mutual interest
and benefit. Freedom of thought, speech and the
press are still ours, though freedom of action and
expression at the polls has been most cruelly and
unjustly torn from us by the rulers of the great
nation, who so proudly boast of their honor and
chivalry to woman. Oh mockery! Does the
safety of a people or nation depend on the vote of
a few thousand women! Then indeed is the situa-
tion pitiable. Surely the grand structure of Ameri-
can independence must be tottering when Con-
gress enacts laws depriving women of the ballot
which they for 17 years exercised in an irreproach-
able manner. Truly we are the “down-trodden
women of Utah’' when the heads of our nation
conspire to oppress us. Still we rejoice in that
freedom wherewith Christ hath made us free; the
principles of the Gospel so despised and fought
against by the wicked give to woman this greatest
possible freedom, and will elevate her to the high-
est pinnacle of honor and refinement, for man is
not without the woman in the Lord and under
God’s laws their interest and advancement are
equal, “male and female created He them,” and
the Gospel surrounds women with a dignity and
importance undreamed of by Emperors, Kings or
presidents, and which they have no power to be-
stow, and while we are deprived of the right to
sustain by our vote those whom we have proved to
be our true friends in the past, we can still wield
an influence for the right by teaching our children
—our sons the importance of sustaining the con-
stitution of our country and every principle of
liberty, we can teach them to abhor the spirit of
bigotry and oppression—that prompted the gross
insult perpetrated upon their mothers, and like the
Nephite women, spoken of in the Book of Mor-
mon whose husbands were under oath not to shed
blood—we can inspire our sons (many  of whose
fathers are now bound by an odious test oath
from wielding the power of the franchise and
whose mothers are disfranchised without the cere-
mony of a hearing) with faith and resolution to
step forward and exercise the rights left them and
preserve the government of our fair territory from-
from being usurped by the clamorous minority
bent upon crushing out of existence those who
have made this country habitable to them.
	Our experience in the past, particularly the past
three years, has not inspired us with an over
amount of confidence in the justice or mercy of
our political rulers and the heartless Federal
Officials sent by them to administer their cruel
and oppressive laws. The Women of Utah—Lat-
ter-day Saints—have suffered too much from this
class to throw any power or influence in their
possession in favor of those who have proven
themselves to be their enemies—knowing this
the brave (?) minority have beseiged Congress to
strike the death blow at the power so much feared,
the ballot in the hands of a few thousand women.
And to the shame and disgrace of our nation, be it
said, her rulers yielded to their unmanly, ignoble
and cowardly request. To-day, like Samson, we
are shorn of our strength in one way, but we will

[Column Two]

abide the Lord’s time, when this nation will again
confer,unasked, the franchise upon the Women of
Utah.
	Oh, mothers! let us be alive to the mighty re-
sponsibilities of teaching and training our child-
ren in the principles of the everlasting Gospel.
Though we labor in obscurity and self-sacrifice,
that is only known by the angels, yet our labors
are not in vain, if we seek for wisdom and look to
the future good of those for whom we toil;
	"The kindly plans devised for other's good,
	So seldom guessed, so little understood,
	The quiet, steadfast love that sought to win
	Some wanderer from the woeful paths of sin,
					These are not lost."
	Our daily prayers for wisdom, patience and
firmness, our daily struggles for self-control and
discernment to avoid temptations, will all have an
influence for good. We cannot inspire our child-
ren with faith if we are lacking; we cannot teach
them Gospel truths if our own souls are not im-
bued with them; we cannot instill into their hearts
a high sense of duty to God and their fellow men,
if we are not guided by this important principle.
We may teach our little ones to pray, but if they
never see us bow in humble, earnest suplication,
what will it avail? We may plead with our
daughters to put away pride, while we toil in trim-
ming their clothing and bedecking ourselves in
many and fashionable changes of apparel. If we
were seeking first the kingdom of God and His
righteousness, would we not oftener lay aside our
oftimes vain and unfrofitable occupations, that
perish with the doing, and take our precious little
ones in our arms and impress upon their plastic
minds principles of truth that will fortify them
against the snares of the evil one? Oh, we think
we are too busy, oftimes with our fancy work, to
keep our little ones employed, while habits of
indolence are weaving destructive chains around
them. More anon.
						     SUN FLOWER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RECOLLECTIONS OF THE PAST.

	Who can realize how swiftly the tide or current
of time is carrying us onward to our eternal des-
tiny? Never before did I see this subject as
vividly as I did at the funeral of Sister Augusta
Cobb Young.
	It seemed but a few weeks since we met at Pitts-
burg. She was with a company of Saints from
Boston; we were with a company from Buffalo en
route for the same place. That place was
Nauvoo.
	It was in the year of 1843. Our captain was
Bradford W. Elliott; theirs, judging from appear-
ances, was President Brigham Young, at this
time President of the Twelve Apostles. It was
the first time we had seen any of the people of
Nauvoo. We were delighted to find ourselves in 
company with Heber C. Kimball, one of the
Twelve Apostles, Elders George A. Smith and
Daniel Spencer, the latter and his aged parents;
also father and mother Alley, to whom we gave
this title because of their age. They were going
to Nauvoo to see their daughter, who was the wife
of Bro. Bates Nobles.
	Sister Cobb at this time had a sick babe. We
stopped at Cincinnati three days; during this time
the babe died. Since that time all the above
named persons have died; only a step-sister and
myself survive. Sister Cobb died Feb. 2nd,
1887.
	There were others of the company whose fate I
did not learn, not being as familiarly acquainted
with them, excepting one family by the name of
Brown, at whose house we boarded while waiting
in Buffalo for the company to start. My step-sis-
ter, Ann Dunlap, and myself left Utica to join this
company, which would start in the fall. Our
parents had gone the previous season.

[column 2]
	When we arrived at Nauvoo we found that they
lived on a farm out of the city. I went to see Sis-
ter Brown, who had a sick child. I found her
comfortably situated, with food and fuel, etc., but
quite unhappy. “How do you feel,” she asked, “to
see the Twelve riding around in their carriages,
and we stuck down here in the mud?” “Well,” I
replied, “if they are out of the mud I am glad of
it; and if I am faithful I will see the day when I
can ride in my carriage.” I saw nothing to grum-
ble at if I could have health.
	She did not see the subject as I did, her child
got better, and the next time I inquired for them
I learned they had gone to St. Louis. They only
stayed in Nauvoo two weeks.
	I well remember how anxious I was to see Sister
Catherine Clawson, the mother of Bishop H. B.
Clawson. She was baptized in Utica at the time
that I was, and left the next spring for Nauvoo. I
went east about sixty miles to visit my mother’s
youngest sister. Mother could not think of going
so far west without bidding her goodbye.
	Aunt Mary had two sons and one daughter. This
daughter was very low with the consumption. She
said to me, “You must stay with mother, she will
be so lonely when I am gone.” She had been
raising blood for weeks, and was beyond the reach
of help. Mother consented to let me stay; and
Father Dunlap also consented to let Ann wait un-
til I was ready to go. She waited at Sister Mon-
roe’s in Utica, who had taught me the trade of
tailoring. My cousin, Ann Maria Dodge, only
lived two weeks, when she passed quietly away.
Peace be to her ashes, for she was a good girl.
She was twenty-two years of age, but knew noth-
ing of the Gospel. Mother received the Gospel
so joyfully I felt quite sure that Aunt Mary would,
as soon as she had time to investigate, but to my
astonishment she would not read anything, but
insisted that her minister would (figuratively
speaking) tear me all to pieces.
	“Well," said I, “then he must tear the Bible to
pieces, for I simply believe the Bible.” He came,
and in a very genteel manner tried to show me my
error. My arguments from the Scripture were
quite ahead of his, and I am sure he saw it. He,
beiieved in election, and accordingly all who are
elected to be saved would be. This ended the
argument.
	My uncle and aunt were not able to convince
me that our faith was wrong, and finally gave up
the idea of trying to do so. My sister came from
Utica, Oneida Co., to Glen, Montgomery Co., to
say that there would be a company start from
Buffalo in September. Accordingly we soon pre-
pared to start on our journey, and arrived in
Nauvoo, as above stated, in the month of October,
on the steamer Nautilus.
							M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, June 30, 1887.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake was held in the
Tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 14th of
June, 1887, at 10 o’clock a.m. After the usual
opening exercises, Coun. Olivia Widerborg ad-
dressed the assembly, and reported the Scandi-
navian Society favorably. Spoke of the great
mission of mothers in our home, in our actions,
and in every respect to set an example. 
	Prest. Harriet Snow said we expected Sister
Richards and Sister Shirtliff from Ogden, but 
perhaps they would be here before noon. “It
is our privilege to live up to the commandments
of the Lord; we are under a responsibility to
the Lord and each other.” Spoke of Sister
Keller, President of the Mantua Relief Society.
“She has been very sick for a long time; let us
all remember her in our prayers.”


Sister Dewey reported Deweyville verbally.
Sister Jensen reported Mantua Society, and
spoke feelingly about their dying President,
Sister Keller; told of her goodness, and the
comfort she had been to her sisters.
	Sister Anderson reported the 3rd Ward; Sis-
ter Peery, Three Mile Creek; Sister Albertsen,
Bear River City; Sister Watkins, the 4th Ward;
Sister Hubbard, Willard City; Sister Mary E.
Snow, 2nd Ward Brigham City; Sister Fannie
Graehl made excellent remarks. Sister Sus-
annah P. Booth reported the 1st Ward Brig-
ham City. All these sisters gave good instruc-
tions, and spoke upon the duties and responsi-
bilities of the mothers in Israel and the women
of Zion, touching upon many points of special
interest, and zealously urged all the sisters to
live humbly, and to be obedient to counsel and
prayerful at all times.
	Singing. Benediction by Prest. Harriet
Snow.

	Afternoon session: After singing and prayer,
minutes of the previous conference were read
and accepted.
	Prest. Harriet Snow said, "There are many
duties resting upon us, as members of this
Church and members and officers of the Relief
Society. It is necessary that we should culti-
vate a feeling of love and union. If we em-
brace these opportunities of meeting together,
gathering intelligence and wisdom, when we 
get thoroughly schooled in the principles of
our religion, then we shall be strong and firm,
without fears, but if we are negligent we shall 
lose the spirit of our religion.
	Emilia D. Madsen spoke a short time on
truthfulness and the way of gaining each other's 
confidence.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards, of Weber Stake
R. S., said, "I was very pleased to hear the 
minutes, and Sister Snow and Madsen. I feel
there is a good spirit here." Spoke of the great
difficulty in keeping a secret. "Our religion is 
of that nature that we can find plenty to do; I
never knew a time when there was more oppor-
tunity to do good than at present. I would
not care for religion if it was only for to-day
or to-morrow, but it is for all eternity if we
live right. When we meet together in the 
Spirit of the Lord, talking of His mercy and
love, don't we feel good—much better than
if we go to all the festivals?" Spoke of the 
many duties of women. "The men could not
get along without us; we could not get along 
without them. If anything goes wrong with
me, that I don't feel good when I go to bed, I
have to get rid of it before I lay down to 
sleep. I want to feel happy and enjoy life
while here." Knew how hard it was for
mothers of a family to come to meeting, and 
how much patience they had to exercise. "I
desire to live faithful. I think I can feel that
you are going onward in Brigham City. I 
used to think if I could only keep faithful till
I was forty years old I would be pretty sure,
but I have seen people seventy years old aposta-
tize; it is only those who keep faithful to the 
end who will receive the reward."
	Sister Shirtliff said, "I feel here a spirit of
sisterly love  Woman's work is a very mixed 
one. I think there is a great field of charity
for women to do good for each other; we can
find much to do among the sick and the poor;
wherever we can assist each other we should do
so happily; if it is not put down in our minute
book it will be recorded in heaven."
	Sister Harding bore her testimony. Spoke
of the great danger in letting our girls go out
to the Gentiles.
	Bro. Dudley said, "I have enjoyed what I 
have heard. It would do me good if I could
put it into practice. The Spirit of God has
been with us to-day."
	The congregation sang, "We thank Thee,
[Column Two]
O God, for a prophet." Adjourned for three
months.
				EMILIA D. MADSEN, Sec.

			SALT LAKE STAKE
	The Relief Society quarterly conference of
this Stake was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, Thursday, June 23, 1887, at 10 a.m.,
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. On the stand
were Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith 
and Mrs. H. M. Whitney. Meeting opened
with the usual exercises and verbal reports of 
the presidents. The reports showed that the
several organizations were in good condition,
and an increased attendance, and an improve-
ment in good works.
	After the reports were given, Prest. Horne
addressed the sisters on the great importance
of the duties assigned them in the Relief So-
ciety, and urged them to a diligent performance
of the same.
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p.m. with 
singing, and prayer was offered by Sister B.
W. Smith.

	Afternoon session: There were many more
present, and the presidents from country
places gave reports of the condition of the
society over which they presided, all being in 
prosperity and in improvement in good works.
	Sister M. A. Hyde, President of the Relief
Society in Sanpete Stake, then addressed the
meeting on the cultivation and education of
the children of Zion; also spoke upon the
principle of plural marriage, considering it the
highest type of marriage, and spoke of the
very fine, noble children growing up in our
midst; thought we should bring them up intelli-
gently, and gave much excellent instruction.
	Prest. Horne spoke upon the storing of grain,
referred to the fall of Babylon, and the prep-
aration necessary for that great event; also
gave counsel about supporting by membership
and donations the Deseret Hospital.
	“Sister Zina” spoke briefly upon the times in
which we are living, the great events transpir-
ing, and the crisis in this kingdom; thought
our work would enlarge, etc.
	Coun. H. M. Whitney thought this work
was rolling on with mighty speed; referred to
her father's sons who were zealous in the work, 
and made allusion to the principle of plural
marriage as a divine order, etc.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, Prest. of the Y. L. of 
this Stake, made some very appropriate re-
marks, and also spoke of plural marriage as
from God, and thought it a subject women
should speak upon, etc.
	Sister Hyde spoke in the gift of tongues, and 
Sister Young gave the interpretation, after
which Prest. Horne made closing remarks, and
the meeting was adjourned for three months 
with singing and a benediction by Sister Sarah
M. Kimball.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	There was an interesting quarterly confer-
ence of the Y. L. held on Friday, June 24th,
in the 14th Ward Hall, though there were not 
so many as usual present.  Mrs. M. A. Freeze
presided, assisted by her Counselor, Mrs. M. Y.
Dougall.  Verbal reports were given by the
officers of the several Associations in the Stake,
though all were not reported, which is a matter
of regret, as at these conferences general in-
struction is given for the benefit of all and
their future progress, and it is expected that
each Association will be heard from. These 
young women in their organizations are mak-
ing rapid improvement in such studies as are
calculated to develop their mental and spiritual 
powers, and give them a thorough knowledge
of their religion, their own and other countries,
and the science of government. They also
contribute to charitable purposes of various
kinds, and each association pays, or is expected
[Column Three]
to pay, monthly to the Deseret Hospital, re-
ceiving credit for the full amount, which may
be refunded in payment on any patient they 
choose to send to the institution for treatment. 
A short time ago Prest. Freeze proposed that 
the Associations in this Stake assist in emigrat-
ing some worthy persons from the old country
who were not in circumstances to pay their own 
emigration.  Means has been already collected
sufficient to bring out three adult persons, and
this plainly shows that "where there's a will
there's a way," and furthermore, that the Lord
blesses those who are willingly helpful to the
poor. Sweet charity! well doth it become the
young, and in  blessing are we blest, and in
giving more than in receiving.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters R. R.
Grant, E. Howard, B. W. Smith and M. A.
Hyde, women of large experience in the
Church, whose teachings to the young are ever
motherly and wise.
	Dr. Ellis R and Maggie C. Shipp each spoke
to the young ladies on appropriate subjects, in
a most interesting manner, calculated to awaken
thought and inspire noble sentiments. They
were also addressed by some of the leading 
officers of these valuable Associations for the
advancement of the young daughters of Zion.
Some matters of business were transacted, and 
the conference adjourued for three months.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	A Relief Society conference of the Oneida
Stake of Zion, held in Clifton District, June
8th, 1887. Meeting opened at 10 o'clock a.m.
Present on the stand, Stake President, Eliza-
beth Fox, Second Counselor, Mary Hawks,
President Hendricks of Oxford, President Jane
M. Howell and her two Counselors of Clifton,
and Counselor Mary Ann Paskin of Treasure-
ton; also Patriarch Milo Andrus of Oxford,
Elders William Webster and Lewis Petty.
The choir sang, "An angel from on high."
Prayer was offered by Elder William Webster.
The choir sang, "Truth reflects upon our
senses." President Fox invited all the presi-
dents and representatives present to come to the
stand. Minutes of the previous conference
read and received.
	Prest. J. M. Howell represented the Clifton
ton Society as being fully organized and in 
good order. 
	Prest. Hendricks reported the Oxford Society
as doing well.  Said the sisters had done con-
siderable work since she had presided, and felt
well and benefitted by the sisters' visit.
	Coun Mary Ann Paskin reported the
Treasureton branch as doing well.
	Coun. Mary Hawks said, "I am happy to
meet you once more, dear sisters. We have 
traveled many miles in company with the
brethren of this Stake, and have met many of 
the sisters and held quite a number of meetings. 
I am pleased to hear that the brethren meet 
with you once in a while; it is very encourag-
ing to the sisters. We should be kind to each 
other, and especially to those who are left to
provide for their families without the aid of
father and husband; they should not be neg-
lected. We should be very wise in counsel-
ing our children, for they are our hope and our
all. There is a great labor for us to perform
as sisters. You should attend your meetings,
and especially the Relief Society meetings,
where you can talk upon subjects that cannot 
by talked on in other meetings. Mothers, I 
say to you all, read good books, and often lecture
on the laws of human nature. You should
guard against all things which are injurious to 
your health. Do not neglect your duties in the
society for your work; if you wait for the time
when you have nothing to do you will never go,
for a mother's work is never done. Exercise
faith in the ordinances of the Gospel. We, as 
mothers, have a right to administer to the sick
in the absence of the priesthood.'


Prest. Fox said, “I am well pleased with the
reports and minutes of Relief Society in this
Stake. I feel to encourage in lecturing, and I
will advise the young ladies to meet with you
and receive the benefit. The teachers should
visit regularly. You should be diligent in
looking after the poor in your wards. Cheer
up the sisters, especially the ones who are left
alone. We are a blest people, for we live in
the age of building temples and working in
them for those who have died without a kuowl-
edge of the Gospel. Girls should not go into
the creeks to bathe, but they should bathe often
in proper places in warm water. I will say to
the girls, be virtuous and chaste, and never
dare to neglect to pray. I say to the sisters,
attend to your meetings, so you may be bene-
fited and your officers be encouraged. Do not
neglect to lay up grain and take care of it. I
would like the brethren to help build good
granaries, so the mice cannot destroy the grain;
our grain is very precious, and should be taken
good care of.”
	Elder William Webster said, “The Sisters
are traveling in the Stake to instruct the sisters
and children upon many subjects which are
necessary for them to understand. We have
repented, been baptized, and many of us have
received forgiveness of sins, and are in posses-
sion of a portion of the Holy Ghost, whose
office is to lead to all truth. We should com-
ply with all the requirements of the Gospel so
we may be counted with the worthy at the last
when Christ shall come to make up His 
jewels.”
	Patriarch Milo Andrus of Oxford said, “I
have felt inspired in your meeting; I have felt
inspired by the beautiful morning, and by the
appearance of life and growth outside of the
house. It is very important for us all to under-
stand the laws of life and health. The Gospel
found us all in a very ignorant state pertaining
to the knowledge of God. The brethren should
sustain the Relief Society by their presence.
Joseph the Prophet, and Hyrum the Patriarch,
and many more noble brethren, set the example
in their life-time. The Society should try to
create work for their daughters and sisters, that
they may not be compelled to go to the outside
for employment. The young people should
not dare to trifle with the springs of life, that
their offspring may be noble sons and daughters
of God, as He has reserved the most noble
spirits to come forth in this age. By observing
the laws of God all this can be brought about.
We should so live that we can dedicate our
bodies to God, feeling we have done His will
and kept His commandments. There is no
danger, truth will prevail. This kingdom will
come off victorious; only wait.”
	Bishop William Garner said, “I am thank-
ful for the visit of the sisters, and for their
timely instruction.”
	Prest. Fox thanked those present for their
good attention.
	Conference was then adjourned subject to ap-
pointment. The choir sang, ”O, say, what is
truth?” Benediction by Elder Lewis Petty.
	While the Relief Society held their meeting
in the ward house, the Stake Presidency of the
Primary held a meeting in the Society Hall,
which was crowded to overflowing.
	At 2 o’clock a.m. a ward meeting was held,
Stake Counselor George C. Parkinson presiding.
The time was occupied first by Elder William
Webster of Franklin, secondly, by Elder Riley
Davis, and lastly, by Coun. George C. Parkin-
son. All gave wise and timely instructions.
Conn. Saul Hale and wife, both of the Stake
Presidency, were prevented from attending this
conference by an accident.
	The enjoyable visit of our honored brethren
and sisters, with so much good instruction, was

[column 2]
crowded is so short a time, that this report
hardly does credit to the occasion.
					D. E. DUDLEY, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with deep feelings of regret and sorrow that we re-
cord the death of one of our most esteemed sisters, Sophia
Berg, who departed this life Dec. 10th, 1886, at her home
in Santaquin, Utah, after a long and painful sickness, caused
by consumption. Deceased was born in Var a Finnland,
May 19th, 1845. She was a faithful teacher in the Relief
Society, meek and humble in spirit and exemplary in all
the relations of life. She was beloved by all who knew her,
and died in the hope of a glorious resurrection, to inherit
eternal life in the mansions of the just. She leaves a hus-
band and aged mother, with a large circle of relatives and
friends to mourn her loss.

	DIED, at her home in Santaquin, Sister Annie Parson
Swenson, May 16th, 1887, from a lingering illness of about
nine months duration. Her age was 66 years, 8 months
and 14 days. She was bereft of her husband in a very
sudden and cruel way some fifteen years since, and has
lived a widow ever since. She labored hard supporting
herself and donating as liberally as her circumstances would
permit to aid in the great work she was engaged in. She
was a very faithful and efficient teacher in the Relief Society,
which office she has held with honor for the last seventeen
years, and was always ready to faithfully perform any duty
that was required of her. She embraced the Gospel in her
native country, Swedon, in the year 1857; and emigrated
to Utah in the year 1860. She leaves an adopted daughter
and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.

	To the memory of Sister Edna F. Tietjen, the beloved
wife of August Tietjen, who died June 15th. 1887. She
was born in Mecklenberg, Strilts, Germany, Sept. 8th,
1825, and emigrated to Utah with her husband and family
in the year 1859, having previously united themselves with
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From
that time forward she was devoted to her religion. Her
door was always open to receive and hospitably entertain
the servants of God, and to all who sought her for aid and
counsel. She held the office of treasurer in the Relief So-
ciety here for the past sixteen year reflecting great credi
on herself and honor to the Association. She was modes
and retiring, yet possessing many rare qualities of heart and
mind. She died as she had lived, beloved and respected
by all who knew her, leaving a husband, eight children and
twenty-six grandchildren, also a large circle of friends to
mourn her loss.

	These three dear sisters now at rest
		Were highly prized by those who knew their worth.
	Their missions were to comfort and to bless,
		While God saw fit to lend them on the earth;
	They labored with untiring zeal.
		Nor deemed their tasks too hard to bear,
	Till God in mercy called them home— 
		Bright crowns and homes await them there.

	Resolutions of Respect on the death of the above
named sisters adopted at a meeting of the Relief Society
of Santaquin, held July 7th, 1887.
	Whereas, Their labors in our Association have been
faithfully performed, we feel that some proper recognition
of their virtues be recognized among us, therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society, do
deeply mourn the loss of such valuable and faithful co-
laborers.
	Resolved, That we present a copy of these Resolutions
to their relatives, and have the same published in the Ex-
ponext; and keep a copy on our record.

					ELIZABETH STICKNEY, Prest.
					ELIZABETH WALL,
		Committee.	BETTIE BOSS,
					HANNAH KIRKMAN,
					ANN J, STICKNEY, Sec.,


Dr. Romania B. Pratt, 
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
		Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which 
can also be reached by Telephone No. 269. 

﻿R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

	DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses' and In-
ant’s Shoes.
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	﻿The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
