VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1887.	NO. 7.


EVENING THOUGHTS.

The winds blow low—the winds blow high,
	And threatening storm-clouds gather near—
And Satan's hosts are marshal'd nigh,
	Perchance to foul the atmosphere.

Where, where have truth and justice fled?
	Why are they not in session found?
Their posts seem occupied instead,
	By adverse spirits lurking 'round,

But truth is true, and justice just,
	And such they ever will remain;
And 'tis decreed, ere long, they must
	Return and fill their seats again.

It seems that hell has opened wide
	And sent its vilest imps abroad,
To vilify, impugn, deride,
	And persecute the Saints of God.

But God is God and will sustain
	The glorious work he has begun,
Till peace shall from its rising, reign
	Unto the setting of the sun.

Fear not, ye Saints—you who indeed
	Are living as the Lord requires,
To sacred cov'nants giving heed,
	And every word which God inspires.

An ordeal furnace near at hand,
	Will test your faith and texture too;
But God will give you grace to stand,
	And He will help you safely through.

And when the winds and tempests blow,
	And the primed furnace vents its heat;
Whatever comes, 'tis yours to know,
	Your triumph yet will be complete.

Not so with those who, falt'ring, break
	The sacred vows they've enter'd in;
With life and with their all at stake,
	They seek the world's applause to win.

They'll draw your saintly sympathy
	Over the hapless choice they make;
For when 'tis all too late, they'll see
	They made a ruinous mistake.

O that we all would watch and pray,
	And ever true and faithful be—
Move on and upward day by day,
	And nearer, O, our God, to Thee.

		E. R. S. S.
Salt Lake City, August 24, 1887.    Eliza R. S. Smith


THE LAND OF YESTERDAY.

Far in the West, beyond the setting sun,
	Beyond the waves that glow like molten gold,
There lies an island; and, when day is done
	And we gaze o'er the waters, we behold
Its calm green meadows and clear winding streams
	And purple hills that seem to touch the sky;
But over all there hangs a mist of dreams, 
	Scarce lifted by the breeze that seems a sigh,
And never voice comes from the Silent Shore,
	But whispered sounds and songs of days of yore.

The isle is called the Land of Yesterday;
	And there are buried human hopes and fears,
And joys and sorrows—ay, and hearts, they say,
	That have been broken in this world of tears!
And you and I have each our treasures there,
	And stretch out yearning hands toward the shore,
And long to wander in the meadows fair,
	And sweet loved paths we knew in days of yore;
But the chill mist hangs o'er the farther side,
And sounds of weeping float across the tide.


Alas, we never, never more may stand
		Again within the Land of Yesterday—
	Never may hope to clasp with eager hand
		The days that were too bright, too sweet to stay!
	But, lest our sinking hearts should wholly die,
		There comes the promise of a dawn so bright
	That all the mists and all the gloom will fly,
		And all the sorrow pass in golden light,
	And God Himself in heav'n's most glad "For aye"
	Restore our treasures lost in Yesterday.
—Family Herald.
		A. L. B.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	On the morning of June 20th, the day pre-
vious to the one appointed for the State Service
to be held in Westminster Abbey, London
was, for probably the first time in its life, in
true holiday attire. The day was one of those
pure, clear days, when no density of atmos-
phere or suspicion of fog marred the full
beauty of the effect. Our grand old buildings
were never shown to such advantage. St.
Paul's Cathedral, from a turn on the river,
came into full view, and every part of the
dome and cross was clearly discernible. The
sun shone gloriously upon the gilt tracery of
the House of Parliament, that stood out grand-
ly in relief with the back ground of clear blue
sky. The gloomy, somber air London usually
wears, when contrasted with the bright conti-
nental cities, was nowhere to be seen, and in its
stead we had sunny weather and balmy air.
One might have imagined Comus had taken us
all under his control for the time being. It
was a general holiday, and every one seemed
bent upon enjoyment. Surely no fete day in
Paris had ever rivaled the West End of Lon-
don in picturesque style. Piccadily, Bond
Street and Waterloo Place was fairyland itself.
Standing at the Duke of York's Column, and
looking up to Piccadily circus, we could well 
imagine we were in the grounds of an enchanted
palace, with the double approach of triumphal
arches. Garlands of roses were festooned
across the streets, and hanging baskets of
flowers suspended by cords from either side.
From Constitution Hill to the Mall the decora-
tions were the finest and most splendid, on ac-
count of the richness of the materials em-
ployed. Silk velvet, brocades and tapestries
were much used here with good effect. At
Piccadily circus end a triumphal arch was 
erected, which spanned the street and was sur-
mounted by the royal arms, and bore this 
motto: "Victoria, all nations calute you." This
was followed down the incline of Regent Street
and Waterloo Place by a number of panels
(thirteen in all) suspended from the houses in
a transverse direction to give the appearance
of a continuation of the arch. The mottoes
on these were as follows: "1837, Jubilee 1887."
"The British Isles." "The Indian Empire."
"Your Colonies and Dependencies, in Europe, 
in Asia, in Africa, in America, in Australasia,
and Oceana Give You Greeting," and at the
end of these a triumphal arch, similar to the
first, was erected, bearing these words: "Victoria,
our Queen." Pall Mall and St. James was
a blaze of red cloth and fanciful devices.
Piccadily had some very handsome decorations
by private individuals; conspicuous among
these were Baroness Burdett Coutts, who
spared no expense; it consisted of crimson

[Column 2]

velvet, gold bullion fringe and a festooned
drapery of blue and silver. The white pillars
were alternately bound with blue and silver
cloths and sprays of ivy, and was most artistic;
it stood out in pleasing relief to the endless
red and yellow along the route. This house
certainly carried off the prize in that vicinity.
Devonshire House was also very effectively
decorated, but the arrangements for the
illuminations seemed to be the feature here.
Another noticable feature was the decoration
of Charing Cross Grand Hotel and the Consti-
tutional Club, which were trimmed with blue
and primrose color, the former being a blaze
of crimson and gold.
	Northumberland Avenue, on which the
hotel stands, was gay with venetian masts fixed
from lamp-post to lamp-post. Besides these,
what may be termed general decorations,almost
every house was more or less elaborately de-
corated.
	All night throngs of people traversed the 
route, and as early as four in the morning
most of the people had assembled, ready to see 
the procession, that took place nearly seven
hours later. But jubilees are rare occasions,
and the crowd seemed determined to put up
with any discomforts, without grumbling or
being ill-humored, during the long hours of
waiting. The weather being fine, it made it
more pleasant, and even dustmen and water
cart drivers came in for many a ringing cheer
from the bystanders, who felt inclined to be
joyful.
	The first part of the procession set out from
Buckingham Palace at 10:15, and consisted of
Indian chiefs and members of the Royal family
and their suites. At 11:15 the Queen's pro-
cession started, and consisted of eleven
carriages, the first five containing Lords and
ladies in waiting; the next five contained the
children and grandchildren of Her Majesty,
and the eleventh contained the Queen, the
Princess of Wales and the Crown Princess of
Germany. Behind the Queen came the grand-
sons, sons-in-law and sons of Her Majesty.
Then followed the Master of Horse, Keeper of
Her Majesty's privy purse, Aides de Camp to 
the Queen, Equerries to their Royal Highnesses,
etc., on horseback. The processional route
was from the Palace, up Constitution Hill,
Hyde Park corner, Piccadily, Regent Street,
Waterloo Place, Pall Mall, Lockspur Street,
Northumberland Avenue, Embankment Bridge
Street, to the west door of the Abbey. The
Ladies and officers of the Queen's household
awaited the arrivals at their door, and joined
Her Majesty's procession to the Dais. All the
leading Clerical dignataries were present, in-
cluding the Bishop of London, the Dean of 
Westminster, the Arch Bishop of York and
Canterbury. The clergy preceded the Queen,
and were followed by the Princes in their
orders; then came England's Sovereigu, with
the Master of Horse and Ministers of the
Robes following; then came the Princesses, who
rode with the Queen and their attendants,
and the remaining daughters and grand-
daughters of Her Majesty with a host of attend-
ants too numerous to mention.
	A grand march by Handel was played on
the organ by Doctor Bridge, as the procession
advanced up the nave, and the Queen took her
seat upon the Coronation Chair on the dais,
surrounded by her children and many crowned
heads and representatives of foreign nations.
On the marble slab of the altar stood the costly


[Column 1]

Communion Plate. The Golden candlesticks
held candles, but they were not lit, and be-
tween these were placed four large bunches of
white lilies, a rare decoration in Westminster
Abbey. The ladies wore morning costumes—
long dresses, but high necked, with bonnets,
and most brilliant and costly jewels. Full
dress was worn by the gentlemen. The costly,
magnificent costumes worn by the ladies, com-
bined with the showy uniforms of the Princes,
and dazzling appearauce of the Indian visitors
and Kings and Queens, who literally blazed
with jewels, all presented a spectacle never to
be forgotten by those who witnessed the impos-
ing ceremony of publicly returning thanks to
the King of Heaven for His mercy and good-
ness.
	After the guests were all seated, a Fanfare of
trumpets, by the State trumpeters, announced
the Queen's arrival to those inside. This was
the signal for every one to rise to their feet
and remain standing till the Queen was seated.
The service that had been ordered by Her
Majesty for the day was then gone through,
and at the close the Queen presented her hand
to the Princes and Princesses to kiss, and in
return gave them a motherly kiss on the cheek.
This seemed to impress the spectators very
much, such a natural and affectionate display
on the part of the Queen to her children, that
verified the truth of the statement that, "One
touch of nature makes the whole world akin."
The procession then reformed and returned by
Parliament St. to the Palace, where Her
Majesty held a reception, and in the evening
gave a grand banquet to her noble guests.
	The Queen looked very well, and was at-
tired in black and white. Her ornaments
were diamonds, and the usual orders were worn.
If any proof was required that English peoole
could be loyal, the Queen had ample oppor-
tunities of observing, and we are sure the most
exacting person could not have had more hom-
age paid; and may the remaining years of that
noble lady's life be amidst friends, and in
peacb and happiness.
	The streets were lined with people all day,
and in the evening all traffic being stopped,
the crowd was immense. The illuminations
were of a very elaborate nature. Thousands
of pound’s worth of gas was consumed that
night. The buildings that were most illumina-
ted were the Mansion House, the Bank of
England, the Royal Exchange, Devonshire
House and the Charing Cross Hotel. These
were hung with tiny colored lamps, that stood
out in strong contrast to the sombre looking
buildings they illuminated. The Crown and
V. R. were everywhere displayed, and one of
the softest and prettiest effects was the lighting
of private houses and gardens by these fairy
lamps, as they are called. Several houses
were outlined from attic to cellar with gas jets,
which was effective and brilliant. Altogether
London seemed transformed into a very desir-
able and fairy-like abode. Each one had
striven to be successful, and they were. The
next day, June 22nd, the children's fete took
place in Hyde Park, which was crowded to ex-
cess. There were 30,000 children from various
schools, and their teachers were appointed to
take care of a certain number each. A drink-
ing mug was presented to each child, and
amusements of every description were provided
for them. The mugs were manufactured by
Doulton and Lon, and on either side a portrait
of Her Majesty and the year of her accession
and the date of the present one. A little girl
of twelve summers, Miss Dunn by name, had
the honor of receiving her mug from the
hands of the Queen, who passed through the
Park on her way to Windsor;. This was pre-
sented by the Queen because, for some years,
the child had not once missed attending school
or been unpunctual. No doubt the little
maiden inwardly trembled when the Prince of

[Column 2]

Wales introduced her to the Queen, who, in the
kindest and most motherly manner, handed
her the cup, saying, "I am glad, dear child, to
give you this token in remembrance of my
Jubilee." This, no doubt, will be a memorable
incident in the child's life, and let us hope she
may receive a crown from the King of kings
hereafter; this will also encourage her compan-
ions to be diligent and study carefully, and so
gain knowledge, which means power.
	I will endeavor to write you a further ac-
count shortly.
		MARION.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it a duty, or more as a privilege, to
pen a few of my thoughts on paper. I take
the opportunity with a thankful heart on ac-
count of the invitation extended through the
paper.
	We as a little branch of God's kingdom
upon the earth have also a little to bear with
the rest in regard to persecution. Four of our
brethren are cast into prison for conscience
sake. We all feel that it is hard to bear. One
of the four is the Superintendent of the East
Harrisville Suuday School—Levi J. Taylor—
a man whom we honor and respect, and that
we all love with pure hearts. Oh, how can
our Father in Heaven look upon such scenes!
But we know as His children humble in the
dust, calling for deliverance night and day, the
little as well as the big, the rich as well as the
poor, He can cure this wound that is so sore
and is tried so many times. Oh, Father above
all fathers, come and cure this wound of Thine
humble children, for we feel there is no one
else. Cry unto Him, ye children, and He will
soon come from His hiding place and deliver
those that love Him and keep His command-
ments, and His power shall be manifested on
the mountains to the pure, noble and brave,
and to those that have suffered persecution for
His name's sake shall He give a crown of
glory, which no one else can wear but those
that have suffered, and they will be remembered
through all eternity. Therefore, fear not, oh
ye sons and daughters of God, for endless is
the glory that awaits you if true here upon
the earth.
	O, ye mothers in Israel, for you my heart
swells, with your little costly jewels around
you given from above unto you. Mother, what
art thou? Art thou of no worth on this earth
in this age and time? Have you borne sons
and daughters in the kingdom of God? For
what purpose? Are they to be despoiled, or
destroyed by our enemies? Would you not
rather they be taught the principles of the
Gospel when around your knees, than to see
their ruin and destruction, and of no worth
to you in the eternal worlds? We as mothers
cannot afford it; they are too precious for a
mother to have them go to ruin; there is too
much love for them we own; next to the heart
of God is our love for them, O, ye mothers.
Where is that being on the earth that posseses
the love of a mother? And this love is pure;
therefore, oh ye mothers, are ye pure inasmuch
as ye possess this love; and inasmuch as ye
bring up your children unto God ye are saved,
and great is your salvation, which is waiting
for you.
	Therefore, let us be watchful, and stand like
guards in our places in the kingdom of God;
and let us never allow any wrong to be com-
mitted in our little circle, but with sharp eyes
look to the point of duties in every direction,
come life or come death, and nothing can pre-
vent the blessings of God resting upon us.
	I close with a humble prayer in my heart


for the Lord to bless all the mothers in Israel.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	ELIZABETH CHRISTOPHERSON.
Harrisville, Aug. 29, 1887.


ANNIVERSARY.

	The Primary Association of the 21st Ward
of this city held an annual meeting in the
ward meeting house, on Wednesday, August
24th, 1887, Mrs. Mary Davis presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing, "Supplication." Prayer
by Sister Ellen C. Clawson. Singing again,
"Anticipation." Minutes of last annual meet-
ing read and approved. An address suitable
for the occasion was given by Counselor Annie
Steers; Recitation. by Eva Barfoot, "The Smile
Triumphant;" Recitation, "The First Robin
Song," Lillie Papworth; Recitation, "The
Kingdom of God," Joseph Williams; Recita-
tion, Minnie Tilt; Song, "Learning," four little
girls; Recitation, "The Battle of Life," James
Woodruff; Dialogue, "Home Manufacture,"
Kate Moss and Emily Farnes; Recitation, Al-
fred Sylvester; Recitation, Sarah Gunn; Recita-
tion, Gertrude Arbuckle; Recitation, "The
Orphan Child," Deseret Dover; Recitation,
"Rowing the Boat," Emily Farnes; Song,
"Speak gently, it is better far," etc., Rosie
Davidson; Recitation, "Mind Mother," Rebecca
Williams; Recitation, James Moss; Duet, Louie
and Lena Walsh; Recitation, Bertie Williams;
Recitation, "Truth," Alfred Sylvester; Duet,
Lillie and Annie Olsen; Recitation, Walter
Williams; Recitation, "I must not tease my
mother," Ada Folger; Recitation, Belle Folger;
Recitation, four little girls, a verse; Recitation,
"Apple Time," Daisy Westwood; Recitation,
Lizzie Sherwood.
	Interesting and encouraging remarks were
made in brief by Sisters Ellen C. Clawson,
Camilla Cobb, Lydia Ann Wells, Presendia L.
Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Emma Toone,
and Counselor Herbert Foulger. Closing ad-
dress by President Mary Davis, who urged the
children to attend the conference on the 17th
of September, in the Assembly Hall. Meeting
was adjourned. Singing, "Parting Hymn."
Benediction by Counselor Eliza Schutts.
	After the close of the meeting the invited
guests, with the officers of the Association and
sisters of the ward, were ushered into the Re-
lief Society Hall adjoining, where a large
table was spread with a bounteous repast;
fruits and flowers in great profusion helped to
beautify and grace the tables. The children
were not neglected or forgotten, and each little
one was served by willing hands, and all were
satisfied and gratified. It was a day of pleasure
and we trust of profit to all gathered to com-
memorate the occasion.
	Sister Davis, and her aids and assistants, de-
serve the praise and commendation of the
parents of the ward, for the kindly care and
interest they have manifested for the little
ones since the organization of this helpful,
educational department of spiritual labor.


Mary Peabody, of Salem, became the wife
of the late Horace Mann, who had a head as
destitute of imagination as Hawthorne's was
full of it. She wrote the novel of slave life in
Cuba entitled, "Juanita," which was published
last spring, a few weeks after her lamented
death, and was the constant companion of her
sister Elizabeth, who is the original promoter
of the Kindergartens, which Mrs. Quincy
Shaw has taken under her special protection.
Sophia Peabody had the fortune to wed the
shy but powerful romancer, Nathaniel Haw-
thorne. She was equal to the situation, and
in the "Life of Hawthorne," which has been
written by his son, there is nothing more beau-
tiful than the womanly sympathy which she
supplied to the man of genius.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


"SO HE BRINGETH THEM UNTO
THEIR DESIRED HAVEN."

Psalm cvii, 30.

"So!"—through storms and darkness,
		Through great waters deep,
Through the cloud whose black embraces
		Hidden sunbeams keep:
	So, He brings His chosen there
	To the Haven safe and fair!

"So!"—through fierce winds blowing,
		Through rough desert ways,
Through long nights whose dreary darkness
		Reaches o'er the days:
	So, He brings them Home at last,
	Safe from every stormy blast!

"So!"—through cares and trials, 
		Through temptations strong,
Through dead hopes, whose joyous blossoms
		Have been waited long:
	So, He brings His chosen Home,
	Nevermore to sadly roam!

"So!"—by tears and longings,
		By the spirit's strife,
By the hands outreaching vainly
		Toward this empty life:
	So, He brings them Home to share
	In His perfect "fulness" there!

"So!"—by small, slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
By the heart's unspoken yearning,
		By its grief and loss:
	So, He brings them Home to rest
	With the victors, crowned and blest!

"So!"—by scattered ruins,
		By sweet links unbound,
By fair blossoms all unheeded,
		Trampled on the ground:
	So, He brings them Home to Him,
	Where no cloud their joy can dim!

"So!"—oh, weary pilgrim,
		'Tis the Master's way,
And it leadeth surely, surely,
		Unto endless day!
	Doubt not, fear not—gladly go;
	He will bring thee heavenward so!

		JENNIE HARRISON.


TO MY DEAR MOTHER.

A goodly number of years have passed
Since you came to earth—Oh, they go so fast!
The days, the months and years go by
Fairly unheeded—on wings they fly;
And, when we look back, it seems so odd
To see what a curious path we've trod—
With thorns among roses, joy mixed with pain,
Gladness and sorrow, sunshine and rain—
Mingled together on every side,
None of them anxious their faces to hide.
Often it seems that of all this host
Sorrow makes her appearance the most.
She visits the lowly as well as the great,
The poor as those of high estate,
Giving us all of her cup a share,
Of which you, mother, received full fare.
You have toiled for us in days gone by,
And shown us the way to God on high;
You've watched our short and fevered breath,
When it seemed we must part by the hand of death;
You have knelt by our bed in silent prayer,
And asked of God, He our lives would spare.
When toils are named we can think of none
Which by our mother have not been done.

And now we wish that your future years
May be less bestrewn with cares and tears;
That all your sorrows may be past,
And happy years may crown your last;
That long with us you may yet remain,
Oft your wise counsel to give again.
May you at last be crowned above,
To dwell with those who rule in love;
And that we all may meet you there,
Shall be our constant, earnest prayer.

		ANNIE.
Fairview, Aug. 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

CHARITY. 

	We are taught that "Charity covereth a mul-
titude of sins." Very many are so near-sighted
as to believe that when the Apostle spoke of
charity, he meant simply the giving away a
small portion of our goods, the loss of which
would never be felt by ourselves or families.
Having given a cold dinner now and then to
tramps, and perhaps dropped a twenty-five
cent piece into the poor-box once or twice in
the course of a year, the average church mem-
ber feels satisfied his charities have been large
enough to cover what few small sins he may
feel inclined to commit. Then there are others
who are very liberal as far as giving money is
concerned, who are not possessed of the faint-
est spark of true charity in their souls. There
are men and women who give simply that their
names may be seen and spoken of by others as
heading the list of those who give large sub-
scriptions to charitable objects. They are anx-
ious to be spoken of as charitable, large-
hearted persons, and for that reason often give
large sums of money, which is, in reality, often
badly needed in the homes of these same char-
itable persons. Very often this class of givers
receive their full reward when their names, to-
gether with the large amount they have sub-
scribed, appear in some one or other of the
religious papers for which most of their more
fashionable or wealthy friends subscribe.
	Why not? The Pharisees had a similar re-
ward.  It is possible to give very liberally, even 
beyond our means, and still not be possessed of
true charity, for St. Paul has said, "Though I
bestow my goods to feed the poor;  though I 
give my body to be burned, yet have not char-
ity, it profiteth nothing."
	The God who measures our charities is able
to look beyond the action to the motive which
first prompted that action.  In his eye the
widow's mite counted for much, simply because
it was given freely;  not because she expected to
have praise from her neighbor, but through
the desire to do all the good that lay in her 
power to those who were less favored than her-
self.
	The charity of which the Apostle spoke
meant more than the giving of money, food,
or clothing. Giving our goods is only one way
of showing that we possess charity. To me it
seems that generous sympathy, freely expressed
in time of sickness or trouble, where no mate-
rial help is needed, will be accounted to us for
charity. 
	In my observation of people I have found
very little of "The charity that thinketh no
evil." I have met very few who were willing
to credit their neighbor with right motives, al-
though his actions might not seem in accord-
ance with his profession. People generally are
too willing to judge others from their own stan-
dard of right and wrong, forgetting that no two 
persons view an action from the same moral
standpoint.
	A woman may belong to a dozen charitable
societies for the poor, yet, if she can see very
little that is good in her neighbor's actions; if
she is continually on the watch for something
in that neighbor's manner of life or dress with
which to find fault, surely she is not possessed
of the "Charity that is kind."
	Why is it that women have so little charity
for one another? Let a woman make one false
step in life, and her whole sex at once forsakes
her. Sisters, schoolmates, intimate friends alike
ignore her. Not one of all her intimate friends
will stretch out a hand to lift her up to the
moral plane from which she has fallen. Not
they.  They are all too busy, perhaps, in or-
ganizing a society to send the Gospel to the
heathen in Central Africa, to waste thought or
sympathy on a fallen sister at home. They
feel that there is more respectability in organ-
ized effort. Then, too, it is very gratifying to

[Column 2]

human vanity to see one's name often in print
in connection with some kind of gospel society,
thus giving others the impression that one is
very charitable.
	It would not be considered at all proper,
even in our enlightened Gospel land, for the
most charitably inclined sister to be seen speak-
ing to one of these fallen ones. Society, even
if it were sure that she were trying to reclaim
the lost one, would turn its back on the woman
who would dare thus to lower herself. All she
can do, and retain her position in that wonder-
ful organization called "Society," is to attend,
at stated periods, the meetings of charitable
societies, and give liberally of her money to
Christianize heathen women in Central Africa, 
or India, or some other far-away country—and
from which, in many instances, they never re-
ceive any benefit—while perhaps more than a
dozen women in the same block in which this
charitable woman lives are perishing, both
body and soul, their remorseful and agonizing
cry to be saved remaining unheeded and unno-
ticed because no Christian woman can be found
who will take them by the hand and help
them to forsake their old life, and find honor-
able, respectable employment. In thus denying
to fallen women all means of returning to a
better life, society has made a fearful mistake;
assumes to be more just than Christ Himself,
who commanded the sinner to sin no more;
and, until a broader charity is manifested, and
something more is done by way of reclaiming
the fallen at home, would it not be just as con-
sistent, and much more modest, to say less about
our "Charitable Societies for Converting the
Heathen."—Selected.
		EMMA M. MYERS.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	H. W. Mabie is writing the "authorized" life
of Helen Hunt Jackson.
	The Record nominates for president of
Wellesley College, to succeed Miss Freeman,
Miss Rose Elizabeth Cleveland.
	Mrs. Crawford, Paris correspondent of the
London Daily News and Truth, is said to earn
$10,000 a year by her pen.
	The Queen laid the foundation-stone of the
imperial Institute Building in London re-
cently. Twenty thousand persons were pre-
sent.
	The Woman's Congress, of which Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe is president, will hold its next
meeting in New York City, Oct. 26, 27
and 28.
	The novelist Eugenie John, better known as
E. Marlitt, author of "The Old Mam'zelle's
Secret," died at Arnstadt, her native town, at
the age of sixty-two.
	Our condition never satisfies us; the prssent
is always the worst. Though Jupiter should
grant his request to each, we should continue
to importune him.—Fontaine.
	Each girl in Wellesley College performs
forty-five minutes' work each day. There are
three huudred girls, and every girl is trained
to do one kind of work quickly and well.
	At the late election in Texas, Galveston's
finest women were at the polls distributing bal-
lots. They also had booths, from which they
dispensed refreshments. The Texas women
are in earnest and ought to be allowed to vote.
	An International Council of Women, called
by the National Woman Suffrage Association,
will be held in Washington, D. C., opening
March 25, closing April 1. 1888, to commemor-
ote the Woman's Rights Convention held in
Seneca Falls, N. Y., in 1848.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	SEPTEMBER 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	Behold, we count them happy who endure.—JAMES
v, II.

"Well, to suffer is divine;
Pass the watchword down the line,
	Pass the countersign, "Endure!"
Not to him, who rashly dares,
But to him, who nobly bears.
	Is the victor's garland sure."

	These significant lines, how much truth they
contain, and how intensely the Latter-day Saints
can appreciate such sentiments. The quotation,
"Behold, we count them happy who endure," in-
deed how much these few words imply. We see a
brother or a sister who has patiently and nobly
borne suffering, privation, hardship and bitter
experiences, laid peacefully away in the silent
grave, and we do indeed count them happy; they
have endured to the end of their days, and have
gone to a better and higher sphere; they have
fought the good fight and gained the victory, not-
withstanding all the doubts, trials and temptations
they had to encounter.
	To achieve some great public good, to accom-
plish some grand purpose in life is praiseworthy
and ennobling; to add to the happiness of others,
or to help them to rise in the scale of being, to in-
crease in knowledge and intelligence above one's
contemporaries by diligence and application, all
these are laudable ambitions, and may be counted
worthy objects for which to have lived and worked
and gained success; but yet one or all of these
may be done, and even well done; and after,all the
needful courage may fail, doubts may multiply,
friends may prove false, troubles may hedge one
round about, jealousies may creep in unawares,
and the firm resolve, the fixed determination may
waver, and little by little one may give way, with-
out scarce knowing or realizing the failing strength
of endurance, until the hopes and ambitions that
animated the once happy man or woman, are lost
sight of; the spirit that buoyed up the drooping
heart in other times of trial has departed, and the
unconscious one may be drifting away alone, with
a mind darkened and disconsolate. If to all such
could come in forcible language the words of
Scripture, "The race is not to the swift nor the
battle to the strong, but to him who endureth,"
it might help many a weary traveler on the high,
way of life.
	The only sure and steadfast anchor to the hu-
man soul is the Spirit of God, and how can one
always be in possession of that spirit? By being
obedient to all the commandments given, so far as
it is possible for poor frail humanity; by keeping
in view at all times the pattern given by the Savior,
"To do unto others as we would wish them to do
unto us," by loving our neighbor as ourself, and
striving to overcome evil with good from morning
till evening, and evening until morning,dedicating
ourselves anew to God each day of our lives, and
helping our brother or our sister, as occasion or
opportunity offers, not only in deeds of truly
Christian charity and benevolence, but in words of

[Column 2]

kindness, and in a spirit of meekness, and with a
sincere desire to bless and comfort.
	The prophecies of ancient and modern times
foretell the falling away of many, and indeed there
have been many zealous, devoted members of the
Church who have fallen out by the wayside from
various causes. This apostacy from time to time
causes all thoughtful people to inquire into their
own condition, and examine their own hearts; not
that one should wait for examples or reminders of
this kind, but it is natural, when all is serene and
prosperous, to float along carelessly with the tide,
but when one or more chance by accident, or lack
of caution, to go beyond their depth, or run
against a snag that detains or upsets them, those
who are in the same stream or channel naturally
take warning and seek to avoid the breakers
against which they have been dashed, or the shoal
where they have foundered.
	We often hear these days spoken of as "the
days of trial," "the test is coming," and similar
sayings, but are not, and were not the people of
God in all ages tried, and "tried as by fire?" Every
reader of sacred history knows this to be the case.
This may be a dark time; to those who see no pur-
pose in it, it must be so; but the light of the Gos-
pel, the testimony that this is indeed the work of
God, should be ever-present, or there is danger of
stumbling. What the Latter-day Saint wants to
look for is light, not darkness, nor that which will
tend to darkness, but if there is only a little light,
only a ray of hope, as it were, in the hour of bitter
trial, cherish that little, and it will grow brighter
and brighter. One should not dread the trials too
much; the promises of the Savior are always con-
soling, always new; just as fresh and good to-day
as they were two thousand years ago. The in-
spired poet said:

When thro' the deep waters I call thee to go.
The rivers of sorrow shall not thee o'erflow."

	Sorrows and trials are often sanctified to those
who "pass under the rod," if they are endured
with fortitude and resignation to the divine will.
Christ Himself is spoken of as a "man of sorrow,
and acquainted with grief." Then if one wants to
be like unto Him he must drink the bitter cup.
Has not the Lord said He would have a tried peo-
ple? Then what can the Latter-day Saints ex-
pect? To weather the storm however fierce the
gale; if they have the courage to stand firm and
maintain their integrity they will live to see the
clouds break away,and a brighter light shine forth
from the darkness, or if they die in defense of the
right it will be well with them.

	"The darkest day,
(Live till to-morrow) will have passed away."

	Do not brood over the dark fofbodings, or try to
steady the ark of the covenant, but gather up
courage and strength equal to the greatest occasion.
The kingdom of God has been established never
more to be thrown down, or given to another peo-
ple. Knowing this, let each one be sure of him-
self by trusting in God and keeping His Spirit,
and all will be well with those who keep on the
whole armor of faith, and those who endure unto
the end will be saved, and we shall count them
happy indeed.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Juab Stake of Zion will be held in the
Nephi meeting house, on the 23rd of September.
The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion and Primary Association on the 24th of the
same month, the day following.
	THE Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are hereby
officially notified to prepare semi-annual Stake re-
ports, carefully, upon printed blanks, and forward
them as early as the 15th of September, that a
complete and satisfactory report may be made to


the general conference in October. Direct the 
reports to Miss Mary E. Cook, 323 E., Third
South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	THE Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
are hereby officially notified to prepare semi-an-
nual Stake reports, and forward them directed to
Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Deseret Hospital, Salt
Lake City, Utah. All reports should be in the
hands of Dr. Pratt as early as September 20th, in
order that she may have sufficient time to prepare
the general report for the October Conference.
	THE Conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms in this City, on the 15th of this
month (September) commencing at 10 a.m. and 2
p.m. It is hoped by the President and officers of
the Relief Society of this Stake that there will be
a fair representation from each organization in
in the county. As it is the time for written reports,
and as the secretaries have been so often reminded
to send the reports punctually to the secretary as
early as the 5th of the month, there will of course
be no failure in that respect. All those interested
in the Relief Society and its benevolent work are
cordially invited to attend.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. Conference of this Stake
will be held on Friday, the 16th, at the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, commencing at 10 a.m. and 2
p.m., and it is earnestly desired there should be a
good representation from all the several Associa-
tions in the County. Brethren and sisters inter-
ested in the work of improvement mentally, moral-
ly and spiritually of the young people of Zion,
are invited to attend the meetings of the confer-
ence.
	THE Primary Associations of this Stake will
hold their conference on Saturday, the 17th inst.,
in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, commencing at
10 a.m. and 2 p.m. It is expected there will be
an interesting programme and exercises by the
children, and it is hoped that each Association
in the county will be represented, and a large
number of children with the presidents and officers
from the several wards in the city. The spiritual
development and training of the little ones is cer-
tainly an important work, and those who have
charge of these Associations should receive en-
couragement from the parents in their labor of
love and duty.


HON. A. A. SARGENT.

	Hon. A. A. Sargent, ex U. S. Senator from
California, and since minister to Berlin, whose
death was announced recently in the papers, was
a friend and advocate of woman's suffrage, and
also a firm believer in justice and rights for all,
even "Mormons."
	His wife showed great kindness and courtesy to
the "Mormon" women who attended the Eleventh
Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A. in 1879, of
which she was at that time one of the officers, and
is a most interesting women, and an active worker
in the suffrage and in other ways for the advance-
ment of women. Mr. and Mrs. Sargent have, we
are told, spoken many times in favor of our peo-
ple when an opportunity offered, which our people
can fully appreciate, as it is the custom of the
world at large to denounce Mormons. Those who
are free from prejudice are the exception.
	We sincerely sympathize with Mrs. Sargent in
her great loss. When such men die there is cause
for sorrow, for the world needs such honest and
upright men to fill positions of honor and trust in
the government.
	The following letter from Senator Sargent to
Miss Anthony will clearly demonstrate his stand-
ing in the woman suffrage movement:
	"1 regret that the necessity to proceed at once to
California will deprive me of the pleasure of at-


tending your convention of July 19th, the anniver-
sary of the spirited declaration of rights put forth
thirty years ago by some of the noblest and most
enlightened women of America. Woman's rights
have made rapid strides since that day in juster
legislation, in widened spheres of improvement,
and in the gradual, but certain recognition by large
numbers of citizens of the justice and policy of
extending the elective franchise to women. It is
now very generally conceded that the time is
rapidly approaching when women will vote. The
friends of the movement have faith in the result,
and its enemies generally admit it. Courage and
work will hasten the day. The worst difficulties
have already been overcome. The movement has
passed the stage of ridicule, and even that of abuse,
and has entered that of intelligent discussion, its
worst adversaries treating it with respect. You
are so familiar with all the arguments in favor of
this great reform, that I will not attempt to state
them; but I wish to say, that as an observer of
public events, it is my deliberate judgment that
your time is near at hand. There are vastly more
men and women in the United States now, who
believe that wemen should have the right to vote,
than there were in 1848 who believed the slave
should be freed. This is a government of opinions,
and the growing opinion will be irresistible.
	"Respectfully yours,
 		A. A. SARGENT."

	This letter was written in 1878, but Senator Sar-
gent has ever since advocated these same liberal
views. He would not, we are confident, have
voted to have the suffrage taken from the women
of Utah, for he believed in the progress of women,
not in hindrances put in the way.
	Such men should be remembered with gratitude;
they have enriched the world by living in it, and
their deeds will live lifter them.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

HOW TO BECOME USEFUL IN LIFE.

	How very many different ways there are of be-
ing useful, but to become most so, I can scarcely
determine.
	There is a great diversity of opinions upon this
subject. Many very talanted persons, who possess
superior intelligence and intellect, devote them-
selves, almost exclusively, to the pursuit of science,
perhaps some particular branch, and then most
generally give the world the benefit of their inves-
tigations. Perhaps it has been a life-work; then
the whole world is the gainer, consequently we
may say such have really led lives of true useful-
ness.
	There is another class who aim to be great
statesmen and politicians, and exert all the energies
they possess to attain a complete and thorough
knowledge of how best to govern and control the
affairs of state. This class, if they really desire
the interests of the people and seek to make the
condition of their fellow men better, must assuredly
rank among the useful of mankind.
	Then again there is the philanthropist, who, per-
haps, denies himself that which would be pleasant
and agreeable to him, that he may materially bene-
fit others. He tries by every means in his power
to improve the social condition of his fellow men,
and to elevate them in the scale of being. He
seeks to raise up those who are bowed down, to
alleviate the suffering, to ameliorate the condition
of the captive, and in short, we must acknowledge
that his life is to all within his reach, useful and
beneficial.
	Others again live only to be useful in the service
of the Lord, caring little for the usages of society;
they seek not the pride of the world, or the perish-
able things which pertain thereto, but labor to
save the souls of the children of men; to teach the
principles of salvation according to their peculiar
ideas or religious beliefs. They, too, may be ac-
counted useful.

[Column 2]

	There is still another class of useful men and
women I will mention, who exercise their brains
to invent all the several branches of mechanism,
some one thing and some another. These in-
ventors, if successful, are not only benefactors to
the age in which they live, but in many instances
to succeeding generations, and thus their names
are held in honorable remembrance. But to men-
tion each and every class separately would occupy
too much time. There is an endless variety of
ways in which to be useful both to ourselves and
others, but which is the best or most successful
way for each depends more or less on surrounding
circumstances, and yet we may all arrive at some
general conclusions.
	But perhaps you will say I have particularly al-
luded to men. That is true; men seem to take
precedence in all these things, and yet there have
been women who have filled prominent positions
with as much dignity and credit to themselves as
men. Women have ruled over nations, and have
been honored in their stations, and have conferred
as great benefits upon their subjects, and given
quite as much satisfaction (and in some instances
more) as men, and women have made themselves
of great use to the world, or the age in which they
lived. But I will try to come down to the subject
as relates to myself. I have spent considerable
time, and I hope some of it in preparing to make
myself useful to others, but as yet, comparatively,
I do not seem to have accomplished much, still I
have not been indolent; my time has been almost
entirely occupied, and I reflect a great deal how
to make the best use of it possible.
	There are a multitude of little trifles performed
every day, that seem nothing, and yet each of
these are of use; their worth should be estimated
by their numbers, not by their magnitude.
	I cannot satisfy myself on this subject, but will
sum up my ideas thus: The one who helps most
to do good to others, lives most truly a life of use-
fulness.
		EMMA WELLS.
January, 1874.


[Column 1]

IMPROVEMENT.

	First we must remember to do unto all people
as we would they should do unto us. Love our
enemies, and do good to them that despitefully
use us. Some of the sayings of our enemies are
too true to a great extent. One of their general
remarks is that the greater portion of our young
people can not tell why they are Latter-day Saints.
This should not be, for the time will soon come,
when all those who do not know this to be the
true Church of Christ, will cease to be members
of this Church, and thus become like seed sown
on stony ground, which thrived for awhile and
then died out. First we should live each day so
as to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord, to guide and
direct us. Secondly, we should study the scrip-
tures, more especially the Old and New Testa-
ments, so we will be thoroughly posted on the
principles of the Gospel, and able, at any time, to
defend the same. Unless we do so every time an
opportunity presents itself, we will be condemned
for neglect of duty; and it would have been better
had we never been connected with the Church.
	A few years hence our parents will have passed
from this stage of action, and we in their place
will have to take hold of this Kingdom with its
mighty labors and problems and roll it on. And
also the time is not far distant when we will be
the only people who will sustain the constitution
of the government under which we live, which
guarantees to every person the right to worship
God according to the dictates of their own con-
sciences, and freedom, liberty and equal rights to
all; of which the present rulers of that govern-
ment are striving and, to a great exteut, depriving
us. And thus unawares fullfilling the prophecies
predicted by Joseph Smith as well as many pro-
phets of old.

[Column 2]

	Now in view of the great work and mighty
problems which this kingdom and the govern-
ment under which we live comprise, each young
person should ask himself the question: am I
better fitted for this great work than my parents
or the rulers of the day? Worldly prosperity alone
will not fit us, nor mere book learning endow us
for the great labor that awaits us; but a faithful
performance of every duty and a gradual advance-
ment upon all true principles connected with the
government upon the earth. This Gospel will
fit us for this great labor. We have no time to
idle away, until we have fully posted ourselves
with the principles of the Gospel.
	There is so much to be done, so many duties to
perform. We should attend Sabbath School
regularly, and every other meeting we possibly
can, especially the Improvement Association, and
feel willing to perform our parts in the programme.
I should be pleased to note a greater interest
among the young in these meetings, a greater de-
sire to improve themselves. I think the officers
more especially should attend and feel deeply
interested in this great work.
	We should also read all the good books we can.
We can then say with Sir Wm. Wallace: "I am
sure to converse with none but wise men, but
abroad it is impossible for me to avoid the society
of fools." And as Sir John Herschel, calling good
books the best society in every period of history:
"Were I to pray for a taste which should stand me
instead under every variety of circumstances and
be a source of happiness and cheerfulness through
life and shield against the ills, however things
might go amiss, and the world frown upon me, it
would be a taste for reading good books." By
doing this you are placed in the best society, the
wisest, wittiest, tenderest, bravest and the purest
characters that have adorned humanity. One can-
not wonder that Tenelan said: "If the crowns of
all the kingdoms of the empire were laid at my
feet in exchange for my books and my love for
reading, I would spurn them all;" or that the
Historian, Gibbon, wrote: "A taste for books is
the glory and pleasure of my life. I would not
exchange it for the glory of the Indies." All these
words of wise readers show that they who rightly
cultivate the reading habit, can not only have the
best society and friends always at hand, but at
length can say with all modesty, if he reads right
and remembers well. My mind to me a kingdom is.
	May we ever be found faithful to the cause of
truth, is the prayer and desire of a brother.
		R. F. BARR.
Nephi, March 26, 1887.


BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. MARY ANN
YOUNG.

	Mrs. Mary Ann Young, wife of President
Brigham Young, was the daughter of James
W. Angell and Phebe Morton Angell. Her
father was born in Smithfield, Rhode Island,
Oct. 15th, 1776, and her mother in or near
Utica, New York, March 28th, 1786. Their
daughter Mary Ann, some items of whose his-
tory we are about to give, was born June 8th,
1803, at Seneca, Ontario Co., New York. Both
parents were of a religious nature, and the
teachings and early training of Mrs. Young
were calculated to develop the most sublime
and devotional tendencies. Her father was a
great reader, particularly of the Scriptures, and
was a man of good understanding. Her mother
too, was very fond of reading and explaining
the Scriptures to her children, and especially
the words of the Savior. Mrs. Young says,
when she first commenced attending Sunday
School, the first text she learned to repeat was,
"When thou prayest, pray not as the Pharisee
and hypocrit, but enter into thy closet and
shut thy door." This text was very strongly
impressed upon her mind, and the feeling it


[Column 1]

implanted was conducive to secret prayer. She
once asked her mother why the first books of
the New Testament were so much alike; this
was when she was a very little girl. Her
mother replied, to make the testimony stronger,
that the testimony of three or four witnesses
substantiated the truth of the statement. Such
early instructions were the foundation of re-
ligious principles, proving the power of thus
disciplining the mind by a simple process in
early life into a religious channel of thought
and feeling.
	Mrs. Young's parents, while she was a child,
removed to Providence, Rhode Island; and it
was in that city she grew to womanhood. She
was naturally of a devotional nature, fond of
reading the Bible, especially the prophecies
and sayings of the Savior. At an age when
she felt competent to decide upon religious
matters, she united with the Free Will Bap-
tist Church in Providence, because of the be-
lief in baptism by immersion, and because they
extended the right hand of fellowship to all
the professed followers of Christ. Mrs. Young's
parentswere both members of the same de-
nomination. She was for many years a regular
and efficient teacher in the Sunday School of
that church; and this spiritual training fitted
her better for the work which afterwards de-
volved upon her in this Church and kingdom.
	She heard casually of the Book of Mormon,
and being intensely interested in religious sub-
jects obtained a copy for examination. She
testifies that when she took the Book of Mor-
mon in her hands, the Spirit bore witness of
its truth, and she could never afterwards doubt
its divine origin. Her parents were then visit-
ing friends in the State of New York. Miss
Angell commenced writing letters to them con-
cerning this Gospel. Thus her parents and
their friends were led to investigate Mormon-
ism. She soon after went to the State of New
York, where she had the privilege of hearing
the Mormon Elders proclaim those sacred
truths which she had already believed for more
than two years before she was baptized by
Elder John P. Greene, brother-in-law to Brig-
ham Young.
	Before her parents were ready, Miss Angell
emigrated to Kirtland, Ohio, at that time the
gathering place of the Saints. Our readers
will readily perceive by the train of incidents
related, that Miss Angell was a young woman
of more than ordinary strength of character,
and well calculated to stand as a helpmeet to
one who was destined to lead the hosts of Israel
in the last days.
	In Kirtland Miss Angell became acquainted
with Brigham Young, who was at that time
intimately associated with Joseph Smith, and
an earnest and zealous preacher. She had
always been exceedingly particular in receiv-
ing attentions from gentlemen, and had de-
cided that she would never become a wife un-
less she could feel assured that the one whom
she would choose for a life companion would
be a man of God. Mr. Young had been be-
reaved of his wife, and was left with two little
motherless girls, for whom he naturally felt
anxious to obtain a mother, as well as a wife
and companion for himself. Joseph, the
Prophet, had called Brigham Young to the
ministry, and just at that time, through the
dispensations of a watchful Providence, he was
guided and directed (no doubt) in choosing for
his bosom friend one who possessed all those
amiable and generous traits of character which
make woman motherly in her nature before
she becomes a mother to her own offspring;
also those sublime and heroic elements that in-
spire to courage and devotion to the Diety, that
help woman to stand firm in the hours and
times of the strongest temptations.
	Brigham Young and Mary Ann Angell were
married in Kirtland in the beginning of the
year 1834. Mr. Young's eldest girl, Elizabeth,

[Column 2]

was then in her ninth year, and Vilate, the
youngest, in her fourth, but Vilate being a
very delicate, sickly child, required the most
tender and constant care.
	The testimony of these two women, reared
to womanhood by Mrs. Young, is, that she was
a true mother to them in every sense of the
word, ever bestowing upon them the truest
affection, and manifesting for them the earnest
solicitude which characterizes the mother
whose heart is in her labor of love.
	Mrs. Young subsequently became the mother
of six children, three sons and three daughters,
all arriving at maturity except one (named
Mary) twin sister of Brigham Young Jun.,
now Brigham Young, one of the Quorum of
the Twelve. This little girl died in Nauvoo at
at the age of seven years.
	At the time of the dedication of the Kirt-
land Temple there were many powerful mani-
festations. Mrs. Young says one evening her
husband came home very late to his supper,
and she inquired the cause. He replied, "The
upper part of the Temple was illuminated, and
I have been watching my friends." On hear-
ing this peculiar remark, Mrs. Young said,
"Where were they? Did you converse with
them?" He replied, "The brethren who had
been ministering in the Temple had been quietly
observing personages passing about in the upper
portion of the building." There were many
similiar testimonies borne of these wonderful
manifestations of the power of God at that
time.
	Persecution raged in Kirtland soon after the
Temple had been dedicated, and the spirit of
apostacy was rife, even among the Twelve, and
ran through all the quorums of the Church.
Mr. Young being one of the most forward and
active in assisting the Prophet Joseph to dis-
pose of these difficulties, was bitterly perse-
cuted in assisting the Prophet Joseph to dis-
pose of these difficulties, was bitterly perse-
cuted, and on the 22nd of Dec. 1836, on a very
cold stormy night, with jnst one man for a
traveling companion, Mr. Young fled for his
life from the hands of his enemies, and from
his home, commending to God and to heaven
his wife and five helpless children. Mrs.
Young had twin babes, and her eldest son,
Joseph A. Young, well known since to this
people as a man of stern integrity and unusual
business capacity. She was left alone to strug-
gle as best she could under the complication of
adverse circumstances surrounding her, relying
upon God, in whom she ever implicitly trusted,
to carry her safely through all the difficulties
and trials which beset her way. She suffered
from the depredations of those who were filled
with the spirit of persecution, who had some
of them been before time associated with the
Saints, but had fallen away. The mob would
come to her house, and, professing to believe
her husband was hid up there, frighten her until
her nervous system became completely broken
and shattered. In consequence of the hard-
ships, frights and exposure to which she was
subjected, a quick consumption set in, which
seemed likely to prove fatal. The following
spring Mrs. Young left Kirtland with five
small children, alone, to join her husband in
Missouri. She traveled the first hundred miles
to Wellsville by private conveyance, and the
remainder of the journey in steamboats to
Richmond, Missouri. Worn out with travel
and the fatigue of having the sole care of
her children, when her husband met her he
was so astonished and shocked at the change
in her appearance, that his exclamation was,
"You look as if you were almost in your
grave."
	But in Missouri the Saints were not allowed
to rest; the spirit of mobocracy raged in the
hearts of the inhabitants, and the Saints were
driven from their homes in the middle of a
severe winter. Many of the brethren and sis-
ters were obliged to leave on foot, having no
other way of traveling, their footprints not un-

[Column 3]

frequently marked with blood upon the frozen
ground and ice. Mr. Young having charge,
in consequence of Joseph the Prophet being at
that time in prison, with such teams as could
be procured, would move forward, and, seeking
some temporary place of shelter for his wife
and little ones, would leave Mrs. Young to
take care of herself and family, and return
with such assistance as he could get, and gather
up the poorer and more destitute of the brethren
and sisters; also the widows and helpless orphans
of those who had fallen victims at the hands of
the cruel mob, and help them forward upon
their journey. Thus it transpired that during
the short interval of three months Mrs. Young
kept house in eleven different places, previous
to arriving at the place of destination. She
being a woman of great firmness of character,
as well as strong and powerful faith, was
qualified not only to take charge of her own
household, but to render much wise and judici-
ous assistance in helping her husband to dis-
charge the great responsibilities that even then
rested upon him as a leader during the time of
the Prophet's persecution and imprisonment.
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN OF INDIA.

	When a Hindoo girl is born, there is no re-
joicing in the house; often there is actual
sorrow. She must be married before she is
ten years of age, or her father is disgraced.
When she is married, he must give a large
dower with her, and if he is a poor man he
gets hopelessly in debt in order to do this.
He borrows money at an exorbitant rate of in-
terest, and is ever after at the mercy of the
saw-car or money lender.
	When a son marries, he brings his wife and
her dower home to his father's house, and the
father is made richer thereby. But the
daughter brings nothing into the house; she
takes away, and the father is made poorer.
This is the great reason why the girl baby is
not welcome. But more than this, females are
of no importance, either in this world or the
next. They are classed that outcasts. It is
degrading to the Hindoo Shastras to teach
women and outcasts.
	In the Bhagawad Gita, the poet represents
Krishna as saying: "Even those who are born
in sin—even women, Vaishyas and Sudras—
take the highest path if they have recourse to
me. How much more, then, sacred Brahmans
and pious Kshatryas."
	A woman's future depends entirely upon her
husband, and her chief and only aim is to in-
sure his salvation, in the hope that through
him she may be saved eventually;  that in one
of the succeeding births, she may be born a
man instead of a cat or rat, as she has been
taught to expect if she does not make herself
her husband's slave. She must cook his food,
so that he will run no risk of being poisoned.
No woman would poison her husband, and
thus become a widow. To be a widow is the
greatest calamity that can befall a woman, and
is what she most dreads. She cooks his food
but can never eat with him, or before he has
eaten. His sons may eat with him, but not
the wife or daughters. A woman who eats be-
fore her husband is turned into a bat.
	A Hindoo man is anxious to have sons be-
cause no one but a son can light the funeral
pile and perform the other funeral ceremonies
for the father. If no son is born to him, he
must adopt one. A man who has never mar-
ried cannot be cremated. He is tied up in a
blanket and slung on a pole like a dog, then
carried to his grave by two coolies, where he
is buried without coffin or shroud.
	In some castes, if a woman has not borne a
son by the time she is twenty-eight years old,
the law allows the husband to take another
wife. If a woman loses her eye-sight, or from


[Column 1]

any other cause is unable to cook her hus-
band's food, he at once brings home another
wife.  
	The average age of Hindoo girls when mar-
ried is about seven years, but they are be-
trothed much younger than that, sometimes at
two months. According to Hindoo law this
betrothal is a legal marriage, and if the be-
trothed husband dies, the little girl is a widow. 
If she belongs to a high caste, she must remain
a widow to the end of her life. Her head is
shaved in the presence of a jeering multitude;
her jewels are taken away from her; she is for-
bidden to wear the choli or jacket, so must go
through life with naked arms and shoulders. 
She must be the drudge and slave of the
household, and no indignity or abuse is too
great to be heaped upon her. She is told that
she is as much the guilty cause of her hus-
band's death as though she had murdered him. 
This even when she is too young to know what
a husband means. At the funeral she must
walk at least two hundred feet behind the other
women, so that her shadow may not fall upon
them and they too become widows. Her own
mother dare not speak kindly to her, even
though she herself may be a widow, lest per-
chance the gods should overhear, or the by-
standers see that she pities the child. She can
only eat one meal a day, and must wholly
fast one day in each week, no matter how feeble
may be her health. At stated times she must
fast for several days together. Otherwise she
loses "caste" and forfeits the respect and care
of her family. She must not be taught to
read or receive any instruction whatever. One
of the widows writes:
	"The English have abolished suttee, but
neither the English or the angels know what
goes on in our homes. The only difference for
us since suttee was abolished is that we then
died quickly if cruelly, but now we die all our
lives in lingering pain. While our husbands
live we are their slaves; when they die we are
still worse off. They have all they wish here,
and promises for the life to come, but for us
there is nothing."
	The theory, as enunciated by the ancient law-
maker "Menu," is that "a wife ascends to hea-
ven if, after the decease of her lord she de-
votes herself to pious austerity; but a widow
who slights her husband by marrying again
brings disgrace on herself here below, and
shall be excluded from the seat of her lord."
He directs that she shall emaciate her body by
living on roots and fruits, "but let her not, 
when her lord is deceased, even pronounce the
name of another man. Let her continue till
death, performing harsh duties, avoiding every
pleasure and cheerfully practicing the incom-
parable rules which have been followed by such
women as were devoted to only one husband."
All over India are seen little tomb-like struc-
tures, bearing a certain symbol. These show
that widows have been burned there with their
dead husbands. Since the government abol-
ished suttee, no widows have been burned
alive, except occasionally in native states be-
yond the reach of British jurisdiction. This
happened in Nipaul a few years ago, when the
prime minister died, several of his widows be-
ing victims to the cruel custom. According to
the last census, there are 21,000,000 widows in
India, half of whom have never been wives.
	Many Hindoo mothers have so much dread
of their daughters' becoming widows that they
marry them to the bael tree, which is said never
to die.  If the tree does not die, the girls of
course cannot become widows. Again, in some
castes the reverse of this is practiced. When
a father cannot find a suitable husband for his
daughter, he marries her to a flower pot. Then
he breaks the pot and the girl is a widow and
he is saved from disgrace. Many girls are
married to the gods of the temples.
	It is never said of a young wife that she is
taken to her husband's house, but to her
mother-in-law, which is done when she is ten
or eleven years old. Previous to this she has
remained in her father's house, and there is a 
most trying scene when she is separated from
her mother. The air is filled with sobs and
cries and groans from both persons. The little
girl now becomes an abject slave to her mother-
in-law, and she may not speak in her presence
without permission. She must do the hardest
part of the family work—the grinding of the
grain, carrying of the water, etc., and what-
ever else the mother-in-law chooses to put upon
her young shoulders. Until she has a son of
her own, she has no authority or place in the
house. After this she is treated with some
degree of respect, but she has no individuality.  
She is henceforth known as "the mother of
Rama," or whatever his name may be. One
would suppose that after her own hard experi-
ence as a daughter-in-law, she would treat her
own son's wife differently, but she will not. 
She will domineer over her, and treat her just
as she has been treated. This is her revenge. 
A Hindoo woman is forbidden to pronounce
her husband's name. She speaks of him as
they, the plural number being considered more
respectful. She also addresses him in the
plural number, but he is always careful to ad-
dress her and the children alike—in the singu-
lar. 
	A dozen years ago no Hindoo gentleman
dared appear in public with his wife. If they
were to go to the same place, they went in
separate carriages, his a few rods in advance of
hers. But now, in the large cities, they go out
together, both walking and driving. This is
largely due to European influences, and to the
"Brahmo Samaj," the members of which take
their wives and daughters everywhere. Now, 
the orthodox Hindoos are following their ex-
ample to some extent. 
	There is a small "widow re-marriage" society
in Bombay, the members of which pledge
themselves to do all in their power to encourage
widowers to take widows for wives, instead of
little girls, as is the usual custom. One mem-
ber of this society has had a dozen of these
marriage ceremonies performed in his own
house, he bearing the expense of the wedding
festivities. There is another such society in
Gujeral, and one in Rajamundry and Madras,
so there is a gleam of hope for the widows.
When a married woman dies, she is carried to
the burning-ground in her richest dress and
jewels, but a widow is carried in the plain dress
which she wore during her widowhood. It
would be unseemly for her to appear before
her husband in another world with jewelry and
fine clothes. It would appear as though she
fine clothes. It would appear as though she
had not cared for his death. A Brahman
woman who dies before her husband, will have
a ceremony performed in her memory, as will
be seen by the following letter by a man to ex-
cuse his absence from work: 
	"Respectable Sir;—This being the hospitably
auspicious day on which all the Brahmans
whose parental mothers did not die the death
of a widow, that is who died before their hus-
band's death, are immutably required to make
perform an annual ceremony in their honor.
For this necessity reason, I am compulsorily
unable to attend to my office duties at the
punctual moment."
	Hearth and Hall.
		S. F. NORRIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYDE PARK PRIMARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The eighth annual meeting of the Primary
Association of Hyde Park, Cache County, was
held on Saturday, July 9th. Sister Emma
Pike, of the Stake Presidency, was present.


A programme of exercises was presented by
the children, consisting of songs, recitations,
a dialogue and an essay, which were both in-
teresting and instructive, and showed that the
little ones are being taught correct principles.
Short addresses were given by several of the
sisters of the ward, after which Sister Pike
spoke about the Sabbath day. Said that plain
clothes are honorable. and urged the necessity
of secret prayer. Her instructions were timely,
and greatly appreciated by the listeners.
	The officers of the Association for the pre-
vious year were sustained for the coming year,
with the addition of Sister Myra Lamb being
appointed Ass’t Counselor.
				LYDIA DAMES, Secretary.


ORGANIZATION OF WORKING
				WOMEN.

	The movement to organize the working-
women of Boston, inaugurated by the Boston
Woman Suffrage League, took shape on Thurs-
day evening, August 18, in a public meeting
at Wells Memorial Hall, under the auspices of
the Central Labor Union. Mrs. E. R. Hazel-
ton presided, and said that the meeting was
called for the purpose of forming an organiza-
tion for working-women, in which industrial
and labor matters should be discussed, and
mutual help be given in the way of bettering
existing industrial conditions: an organization,
in short, to do for working-women in this city
what the various labor unions have done for
working-men. Mrs. Abby Morton Diaz, Presi-
dent of the New England Woman’s Educa-
tional and Industrial Union, spoke on the Bene-
fits of Association. Addresses were made by
Mrs. S. E. Merryfield, Mr. David Taylor, and
Mrs. Charlotte Smith, of Washington, D. C.
Further meetings of a similar character will
soon follow.
	This movement for working-women, if judi-
ciously managed, may achieve important re-
sults. In Massachusetts there are more than
two hundred thousand women who earn their
support, by work outside of their own homes,
at less than one-half the average rate of wages
paid to men. In Boston alone there are twenty
thousand women employed in shops and stores
at from two to four dollars per week. It is
high time that these women should organize
for mutual help and protection. “The gods
help those who help themselves,” and those
“who would be free themselves must strike the 
blow.”


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It is better to be nobly remembered than
nobly born.—Ruskin.
	
	If you cannot be great, be willing to serve
God in things that are small—S. F. Smith.

	Only let us have faith in God, and we shall
not lack the means of doing good.—Andrew
Fuller.

	A Catholic legend says that the devil gave
a hermit the choice of three great vices, one of
which was drunkenness. The hermit chose
this as being the least sinful. He became
drunk and he committed the other two.

	The grave cannot hold any portion of the
covenanted ones; eternal life is the portion of
the whole man, God is the God of our entire
manhood, spirit, soul, and body; and all live
unto Him in their entirety. The whole of the
covenant shall be fulfilled to the whole of those
with whom that covenant was made.—C. H.
Spurgeon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AN “EMERGENCY” CABINET.

	In every house, especially where the family
is large, there should be some provision for ac-
cidents, and sudden attacks of painful disease.
A contemperary describes such an "emergency”
cabinet, as a box or closet arranged to hold a
variety of articles, such as wide and narrow
bandages of muslin neatly rolled and ready
for use, the former for cuts or hurts on the
body or limbs, and the latter for wounded
hands or fingers. There should also be a packet
of court-plaster, a roll of diachylon or adhesive
plaster, pieces of old linen, lint, cotton, a small
bottle of collodion for cuts, old muslin for mus-
tard plasters, pins, scissors, and other neces-
saries that will suggest themselves, and are
known to good housekeepers.
	Among useful things to be added to the
above are such following simple remedies, as
essence of peppermint, spirits of camphor, some
first-rate olive oil, aromatic spirits of amomnia,
water of ammonia, a little alcohol, common
salt in fine powder, bicarbonate of soda, and a
box of mustard. 	
	The aromatic spirits of ammonia and
camphor should be kept in every house where
there are aged persons, as they are subject to
sudden attacks of faintness, and both these
agents afford relief and help to restore impeded
circulation of the blood.
	Mustard is a valuable-nauseant, in cases of
suspected or accidental poisoning. It may
here be added that copious draughts of tepid
water taken until vomiting ensues, and there-
after repeatedly until the poison is supposed to
be thrown off, is a good remedy to use until
the help of a physician can be procured. If
pains are felt in the bowels, give copious in-
jections of tepid water also, and rid the sys-
tem in both ways of the poison as speedily as
possible.
				—Phrenological Journal.


A daughter of Ogden Bradly, of New York,
an 1 niece of Bishop Neely, of Maine, has won
a diploma from the famous Paris School of
Medicine, passing a brilliant examination and
receiving the maximum mark. Her thesis
was “Iodism,” and for an hour and a half she
was shrewdly and ably questioned by four of
the leading professors of the school, each of
whom had been provided with a copy of the
thesis. She wore the black gown and white
fichu prescribed for candidates.

	A horrible instance of the inhumanity of
courts toward women is related in a New
Orleans paper. Carrie Johnson, colored, was
convicted of stealing fifty cents and sentenced
to one year’s hard labor in the penitentiary.
In company with other convicts she was put to
work on a plantation, where twenty-six men
and four women died from exposure and ill-
treatment, and she returned a physical wreck,
and had to be put in the Charity Hospital. Is
not this a travesty on justice?—Ex.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending August 2,1887, as follows:
	Bell Epperly, Lamor, Mo., Corset.
	Clara Lenenberg, New York, N. Y., Armpit
dress-shield.
	Mary E. Morgan, Gainsboro’, Tenn., Churn
	Sarah J. Schack, Chicago, Ill., Stocking-sup-
porter.


IN MEMORIAM.

	It is with feelings of the deepest sorrow that we are
called upon to record the death of Sister Phebe Singleton,
which took place at the residence of her daughter, Sister


Annie Patterson, in Summit, Davis Co., Utah, August 21st,
1887, after a long illness of typhoid fever.
	Deceased was born on the 29th of March, 1828, at
Hucknal, Parish of Sutton, Nottinghamshire, England.
Was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints on the 19th of March, 1850, by Elder James
Stone. She never faltered in her faith, and her life was de-
voted to the discharge of her duties as a Latter-day Saint
in every position in which she was placed. She leaves a
husband and four children and many friends to mourn her
loss.
	In November, 1880, the Primary Association of the
Slaterville Ward was organized, and at that time Sister
Phebe was appointed First Counselor. In that office she
labored with faithful and devoted interest; she also held the
office of Assistant Secretary in the Relief Society for a
considerable length of time. She died as she lived, a
faithful Latter-day Saint, with a hope of coming forth in
the first resurrection.
	We, the Primary Association of the Slaterville Ward, de-
sire to offer a tribute to the memory of Sister Phebe, our
beloved Counselor, whom our Heavenly Father in His
great wisdom has seen fit to call unto himself.
	She was loved and respected, and we would offer to her
bereaved family our sincere sympathy, and say, while we
mourn the loss of a dear sister, we shall look forward with
joy to the time when we shall meet the dear departed in
that land of rest, where all tears are wiped away.
	We pray God our Heavenly Father to bless and com-
fort those who mourn, and give unto them the sweet peace
that the Gospel affords, and help them to realize that al-
though their departed one has ceased to labor here, she
has gone to continue her labors in a higher sphere.

	Our sister now has gone to rest,
		She has gone to dwell on a brighter shore;
	She has gone to meet those whom she loved.
		Whom death had parted long before.

	And may the loyed that here remain
		Prove true and faithful to the end;
	In faith and works united be,
		Your mother’s pure desires to free.

						ANN HOLLEY, President,
						ANNIE E, HOLLEY, Sec.


OBITUARY.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with feelings of great sorrow that I record the death
of Edmond Sant, son of George and Margaret Sant, born
September 22nd, 1884; and died August 4th, 1887. He
was accidently burned to death while playing in a covered
wagon with another boy near his own age. The cover was
tied securely down, while the wagon was partly loaded
with sacks of salt. The children had been playing in the
wagon at the back of the house, alone; they took matches
out of the dinner box, set them on fire to see the wind
blow them out, and dropped one into the hay while it was
burniug, thus setting the hay in the wagon on fire. One
little fellow crawled part way out of the small opening in
the back of the cover, and then fell to the ground, burned
but little, but little Edmond was burned to death while
waiting his turn to get out, as he could not get out at the
front for the sacks of salt. The father is one of the
brethren who is driven away from home for daring to obey
one of the commandments of God. His mother was
away from home at the time of the accident working
hard to provide clothes and food for her little ones at
home. Sad, indeed, are the feelings of the parents in their
bereavement, but they do not mourn alone, they have
the heartfelt sympathy of all their friends. They do not
live without hope; they look forward to a meeting in the
realms of peace and bliss, where loving hearts will part
no more, and "God will wipe away their tears" and
comfort the oppressed.

							D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, August 31st, 1887.


[Column 1]
Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which
can also be reached by Telephone No. 269.

[Column 2]
﻿R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,	
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE- 
MENTS,	
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS, 
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL 
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS. 

	We carry a larger and more complete 
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions  
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES, 
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
