VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1887.	NO. 13.


[Column 1]

ODE TO THE PIONEERS.

JULY THE TWENTY-FOURTH, 1847 AND 1887,
CONTRASTED.

"Hark! What sound now breaks upon the air?
Look! What is that object coming there?
Lo! 'tis coming on! Without dismay
It dares, e'en now, to press its way
Into the heart of this, my realm,
And mine with fear to overwhelm. 
I will defend my kingdom; and
Why this intrusion, I'll demand.
Strange being, halt! here I am queen,
And such as you I've never seen;
Nay, tell me why you thus intrude,
To mar my peace and solitude?"

"Queen Nature," said the leader bold,
"By God, our Father, we were told
To come unto this far-off land
And give to you a helping hand.
Our God and yours now bids us take
This desert wild, and of it make
A place where Saints of His may dwell,
And in all virtues here excel.
Queen Nature, with your help God knows
That we, to blossom as the rose,
Can make this wilderness. And now
He bids that you before us bow."

"Alas! alas!" said Nature low, 
"Here in my heart I feel 'tis so.
My God above has sent His sons,
That here, before the Savior comes,
There may be gathered souls of worth,
By whom He'll purify the earth;"
And Nature, now bereft of tears,
Cried, "Welcome, welcome! Pioneers."

And all her subjects forward came,
With cheer and gift of help the same.
The Birds sang out a welcome sweet,
And Trees reached out their arms to greet;
The Great Salt Lake leaped forth in joy,
And said their peace shed ne'er alloy;
The Mountain tops then spoke and said,
Their help lie in their snowy head;
The Rills and Rivulets did dance,
And Rivers smiled so at the chance
Of spreading wide their waters pure,
Thus making life to plants secure.
And said the Beast of hill and plain,
"Our lives we'll give to yours sustain;"
And, yes, the Trout said, of his kind
How much was used they'd never mind.
Then last of all the Soil cried out,
"I'll do my best your seeds to sprout,
And with the help of Sun so bright
This spot will be an Eden quite."

Then that brave band of pioneers	
Did onward move 'mid many cheers;
Adown the mountain side they came—
Sang praises to His holy name.
Right down into the vale they went,
And there they pitched their humble tent
Beside the inland sea; they praised
Their God in fervent prayer, then raised
Their country's flag upon the sod,
Where white man's foot had never trod.
Amid the song and praise sent forth
The twilight closed that Twenty-forth.

Hark! What sound now breaks upon the air?
Look! What is that object over there?
Lo! the throng's vast and swelling yet;
For what grand purpose have they met?

From all the country up and down, 
To every city, village, town,

[Column 2]

Great crowds of people thronging come,
With din of wheels and beat of drum.
The very air is loaded now
With voices glad, that tell of how
The hearts are gay; yes, gathered there
Are men so brave and women fair,
And children pure in innocence,
With youths and maids of excellence;
All in good will they are attired,
A sight by kings to be admired.

Contentment in each eye does beam,
And from each heart good wishes teem,
As round an aged few the crowd
Does congregate. How pleased, how proud.
How thankful to their God they are,
When thinking how from lands afar
They came this day just forty years,
And pitched their tents (these pioneers)
Upon this very spot, where now
Ten thousand people to them bow.

Ten thousand voices sing in praise
Where ten their thanks to God did raise;
Ten thousands meet in temples rare
Where those few prayed in open air;
In lovely homes their time is spent
Where those few dwelt within a tent.
Yes, ease and pleasure is the lot
Of thousands now who know not what
Those few endured; their only joy—
The only hope that did them buoy—
Was in the thought that they God's will
Had done—His word they did fulfil.

Now Nature stands aloof and smiles;
She looks around for miles and miles,
And sees the changes which were made,
Since God her country did invade.
She smiles through fields of waving grain,
Where once was but a barren plain;
She smiles through beds of flowers rare,
And fruits with which none can compare;
She smiles, and with a rain of tears,
The efforts of those forty years
Would bless. And God's caress is felt
Through nature's welcome smiles, and melt
His goodness would a heart of stone—
His mercy thus is daily shown.

Yes, truly now that desert drear
Does blossom as the rose; and here
The Saints of God do ever flow;
That in His grace they all may grow.

And on this day of Jubilee,
May words and thoughts and actions be
As pure and holy as were those
Of them to whom each one now shows
Such deep respect, and may there be
'Tween one and all such unity.
Amid such thanks and praise sent forth
May midnight close this Twenty-fourth.
		LOUISA PICKETT.


[Column 1]

A SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF
MILTON.

	Milton, the illustrious blind poet of England,
the, as many believe, divinely inspired author
of "Paradise Lost," was born Dec. 6th, 1608,
in Bread St., London, and was educated first
at St. Paul's School, and afterwards at Christ's
College, Cambridge, where he took his degrees
in arts. The end in view, of his education,
was the bar or church; but he had no inclina-
tion for either calling; and after taking his de-
grees, he returned to Horton, Buckinghamshire,
where his father, who had retired from business
with a good fortune, was then living. It was
here the poet wrote, "Comus," "L'Allegro," "II

[Column 2]

Penseroso" and "Lycidas," poems containing
merit sufficient to have alone immortalized his
name. After his mother's death, in 1637, he
travelled in Italy and France, settling in Lon-
don, on his return, and undertaking the educa-
tion of his two nephews; and if we judge by
his "Tractate on Education," we can readily
suppose he was well calculated for his profes-
sion. It was not merely a disinclination for
the church Milton felt, but a decided antipathy,
I judge; for on the outbreak of the differences
between the King and Parliament, Milton
espoused the cause of the popular side, and
published some pamphlets against the Bishops,
showing great animosity against the hierarchy,
and he bravely avowed on one occasion, "I
have determined to lay up as the best treasure
and solace of good old age, if God vouchsafe
it to me, the honest liberty of free speech." In
1643 Milton married Mary, daughter of Rich-
ard Powell,Esq., of Forest Hill, in Oxfordshire.
For reasons not very clear, except that they
were not congenial to each other, his wife left
his house a few weeks after they were married,
presumably to visit friends, but delayed long,
and finally refused to return home. The hus-
band was very indignant, and wrote some
tracts on "The Doctrine and Discipline of Di-
vorce," which were a great offense to honest
minds. After various negotiations, of which
there is neither room nor need to go into par-
ticulars, his wife returned to him, and they
lived together till her death, nine years after.
About this time intense application to his
studies, combined with naturally weak eyes,
caused total blindness. He continued an ardent
champion for the parliamentary party even
after the execution of Charles I, and wrote
with great asperity against the King's book of
prayers and meditations.
	Milton, now blind, with three little children
on his hands, was sadly in need of a helpmate,
and soon after his wife's death, in 1652, he
married Catharine, the daughter of Captain
Woodcock,of Hackney. She died in childbirth
within twelve months, and that he loved
her, we can see from the sonnet with which
he honored her memory. He speaks
of her as his "late deceased saint," ap-
pearing to him in a dream, her semblance being
such:

	"——as yet once more I trust to have
		Full sight of her in heaven, without restraint."
	And that she
	"——came vested all in white, pure as her mind:
		Her face was veiled; yet to my fancied sight,
	Love, sweetness, goodness, in her person shined
		So clear, as in no face with more delight;
	But, oh ! as to embrace me she inclined
		I woke—she fled—and day brought back my night."

	Can Petrarch's sonnets show more tender or
delicate affection?		
	Milton used every effort to prevent the
Restoration, but after the death of Cromwell
and the Restoration of Charles II, he had
every reason to fear retributive vengeance, so
he kept concealed for some time; but finally,
through the favor of Sir William Devenant,
his brother poet, he obtained a pardon. It was
soon after this he lost his second wife. He
married a third time, a Miss Elizabeth
Minshull, of good family in Cheshire. She
proved to be a bad stepmother, and caused
great unhappiness in the family. In the time
of the plague Milton removed with his family
to Buckinghamshire and devoted himself with


all the ardor of his genius to the completion of
his earliest project, an heroic poem. This was
always in his mind, though not fully under-
taken till he was driven from the field of poli-
tics. "Paradise Lost" was first printed in 1667,
and this immortal work was sold to a bookseller
for the paltry sum of five pounds. It is said,
he was indebted for the idea of it to an Italian
drama on the Fall of Man, and again, many
find the ideas identical with those of Caedmon,
the early Saxon's "paraphrase of the Bible."
To whatever or whomever he was indebted, we
can only be thankful that Milton was, and that
he did write "Paradise Lost." "Paradise Re-
gained" and "Samson Agonistes," a tragedy,
were published three years later. These, with
the poems first mentioned in this sketch, and a
series of sonnets, with a few Juvenilia, in Latin,
English and Italian, are all of his poetical
works. Though he was early attached to the
muses (it is said he was a poet at ten years of
age), he wrote but little till his thirtieth year;
during the next thirty years of his life he pub-
lished no composition in verse beyond the
length of a sonnet or a psalm. His youth and
old age he devoted to himself and fame, his
middle life to his country. Among the prose
works of Milton are his "History of England,"
which comes down only to the Conquest, and
"Areopagitica," in which he pleaded the cause
of a free press with great force aud eloquence.
It is not possible in a short sketch like this to
speak at greater length of his works. Of his
personal habits he tells us himself: "Those
morning haunts are where they should be—at
home; not sleeping or concocting the surfeits of
an irregular feast, but up and stirring in winter,
often ere the sound of any bell awaken men to
labor or devotion; in summer as oft with the
bird that first rouses, or not much tardier, to
read good authors, or cause them to be read"
(evidently his daughters rose early, too), "till
the attention be weary, or the memory have
its full fraught. Then with useful aud gener-
ous labors, preserving the body's health aud
hardiness, to render lightsome, clear, and not
lumpish obedience to the mind."
	When at Cambridge, he was so handsome a
man as to be called "The Lady of Christ's
College," and he retained his good looks to the
last. By his first wife he had three daughters,
two of whom used to read to him in eight
languages, though they understood only their
own, it being a usual saying with him, that
"one tongue was enough for a woman." We
can but acknowledge him as a great poet, but
it must have been, methinks, weary work for
those two girls to plod through word after
word without meaning to them, for their blind
father's benefit, and surely such devotion merits
a crown hereafter. I remember, as a child,
admiring greatly a picture of the blind poet,
seated at an open door, his head thrown back,
with a most ecstatic expression on his face, and
seated at his feet, on the steps, his daughters,
writing down the-fervent words which seemed
to come forth from his entranced soul; but now
I look back I think not so much of the poet or
his poems, but of those poor tired girls, and
wonder if they had a dim perception of the
immortality of the words they wrote, that
gave them courage for their daily tasks.
	Milton died, at his home in Bunhill Fields,
in 1674, aged 68 years, and was buried next to
his father, in the Chancel of St. Giles, at
Cripplegate where a monument has been
erected to his memory; Westminister also con-
tains a bust and monument commemorating the
life and works of one of England's most illus-
trious poets.		MYSOTIS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A JOINT CONFERENCE.

	A joint conference of the Relief Society and
Young Ladies Association of the First Ward
of Weber Stake was held in the school house,


Nov. 19, 1887. President Critchlow presided.
After singing, prayer was offered by Bishop
Critchlow. Singing again and then a report
of the association was read from its organiza-
tion on Dec. 11, 1878.
	President M. Critchlow made a few remarks
in which she stated the object of the meeting,
which was to bring about a reunion of confi-
dence and love with the sisters.
	President Nancy Hill made a few encourag-
ing remarks and was followed by Bishop Critch-
low and Counselor James Burch who were
pleased to be present and hoped the meeting
would result in some good. Spoke of the Re-
lief Society as being a great aid to the ward on
account of the benefit which was felt from
their assistance, and also exhorted mothers to
live near unto the Lord, as a great responsibili-
ty rested upon them in raising their families in
the right way.
	President Sarah Herrick of the Central
Board of the Young Ladies could see an in- 
creased interest manifested in this ward as she
had visited many of the Societies.
	Sisters Gibbs and E. Pingree were thankful
for the good counsel they had received and de-
sired to put the same into practice.
	Counselor R. E. Monch had been highly
edified by the remarks of her sisters. She
spoke of many small acts of kindness we could
perform in administering to the sick and
afflicted and to each other that would bring
confidence and love.
	Singing "The Spirit of God," and meeting
adjourned until 2 p.m., prayer by Elder Weav-
er.
	After this meeting the President extended an
invitation to all present to join in the feast
which had been prepared for the occasion in
the new school house to which all did ample
justice.
	Afternoon Session: The afternoon meeting
was conducted by President Nancy Hill of the
Y. L M. I. A., commencing at 2 p.m. by sing-
ing on page 198. Prayer by Brother James
Burch and singing again on 166.
	A report was read of the association from its
organization, after which President Hill ten-
dered her resignation which was accepted. The
vacancies were filled and some excellent re-
marks were made by Counselors Flinders and
Ensign.
	Counselor R. E. Monch counseled the young
ladies to attend their meetings and willingly
perform every duty.
	President Herrick arose and spoke in
tongues and R. E. Monch interpreted, blessing
the sisters, etc.
	This conference will be long remembered as
being a day when the spirit of God was strong
ly manifested and shall ever be regarded as a
happy day by these associations.
The meeting adjourned for one year by sing-
ing on page 260.  Benediction by Bro. Fur-
nise.
		ESTHER PINGREE, Sec.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	Oscar Wilde is editing a new magazine for
English ladies—The Woman's World, a shilling
monthly.
	Miss Ellers, M. D., who is physician to the
Queen of Corea, at a salary of $18,000 a year,
has married Rev. D. A. Bunker.
	Miss Dorotha L. Dix, among her other good
deeds, succeeded in calling the attention of
Pope Pius IX to the shocking management of
the State Insane Asylum at Rome. In a brief
but somewhat audacious interview she pre-
sented such startling facts to the Pope, that he
at once took the subject in hand,ordered a new
institution and a new system,and thanked Miss
D .x warmly for her humane efforts.

[Column 2]

	Madame Benda, the mother of Madame
Modjeska, has just died in Poland. She had
lived to an advanced age, but was active and
energetic to the last. Madam Benda was a
woman of unusually strong character and she
brought up a large family, of which the dis-
tinguished actress was the youngest, to hard
work and self-respect. Madam Modjeska was
the prop and stay of her mother from the time
she was fifteen. The news of Madam Benda's
death was received while Madam Modjeska
was playing Juliet in Omaha, but she was not
informed of it until after the performance.
	The woman suffragists of Kansas lately
adopted a yellow ribbon as their distinctive
sign. They call it the "sunflower badge." They
say they chose it "because, as the sunflower fol-
lows civilization, follows the wheel-track and
the plow, so woman suffrage inevitably follows
civilized government." The suffragists of Mas-
sachusetts and Pennsylvania have taken up the
idea, and many of the "white ribbon women"
of the W. C. T. U. are knotting the gold-
colored ribbon with the white one at their but-
ton-holes. The two go well together.
	William Bilborough, an obscure member of
Spurgeon's church, who has lately died, had a
heart full of sincere though unobstrusive re-
ligion, and will be gratefully remembered by
many women. In a back street he kept a
second-hand furniture-shop, and as the streets
around are haunted by fallen women, he placed
in his window the following: "Notice: Any
poor and unfortunate sister that requires a good
home, will she kindly inquire within?" He
was the means of rescuing many, and he pre-
served a record of one hundred and forty-eight
who persevered, and are now honest women.
	Miss Emma Lazarus, the young Jewish poet
who has just died in New York, was the author
of a novel and a number of essays, but was
chiefly known by her poems. She was related
to Miss Gratz, the betrothed of Washington
Irving and the original of the character of Re-
becca in Scott's "Ivanhoe." Miss Lazarus was a
generous friend to the Jewish refugees who fled
to this country from Russian persecution, and
she took an active part in the movement to pro-
vide good music for working people free of
charge, which resulted in the establishment of
the "People's Concerts."
	Misses Fannie and Alice Orton, of Butte
Creek, California, have secured one hundred
and sixty acres apiece of government land.
Each has a residence upon her quarter section,
fences have been built and trees planted.
Plums, apples, prunes, and all the small fruits
grow admirably. Fine winter apples can be
grown and transported at a good profit, and in
a few years their lands will become very valu-
able. The Oroville Register says these girls
"are doing what many a young man might
be proud to do, in the way of securing them-
selves homes."
	Mrs. Clara L. Brewster, president of the
Linn County (Kan.) Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion, tells an amusing story of her experience
as a tax-payer of Linn County. She says: "I
was riding to my school one morning (I was a
school-teacher), when a man called to me, and,
in an insulting manner, told me that I was
ordered to work out my road tax on such a day.
I told him I should be ready. There was no
need of telephone or telegraph to spread the
news. It flashed from house to house, at
lightning speed, that a school-teacher—a woman
—was going to work out her road tax. When
the day arrived, every one who had been noti-
fied was on hand, and I worked my road tax
—as Horace Greeley and President Cleveland
fought their battles in the great Rebellion, by
sending a substitute."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TRANSFIGURED. 

To careless eyes she is not fair;
This verdict careless lips declare,
And wonder why, against the charm
Of beauty vivid, rich and warm,
The face they deem so cold and dull
To him should be so beautiful.

Are they too dull to see aright?
Hath he a quicker, keener sight?
Or is it that indifference
Than love hath clearer, truer sense?
Now is he right or wrong? Oh, say
Doth he behold her face, or they?

Her eyes into his own eyes shine
With strange illumining; a sign
Is on her brow; a palimpsest,
To his own gaze alone confessed;
On him, in gravely gracious mood,
She smiles her soul's beatitude.

This is the face she turns to him;
Oh, say not 'tis a lover's whim
That finds it fair; nor are they dull
Who say she is not beautiful,
For, strangest of all mysteries,
They never see the face he sees—
The face no artist's skill can limn,
The love-fair face she turns to him.
	— Charlotta Perry in Times-Democrat.


MAN HIS GOD MOST FEAR.

The signs of the times are conspicuous,
	The fig tree is beginning to swell,
And the time is speedily approaching,
	When but few will say, "It is well!"
Bloodshed, wars and pestilences,
	And coming advents are clear,
When jars, contention and strifes—
	And man his God must fear. 

Earthquakes and general commotions
	Are terrifying the hearts of men,
While labor and secret combinations
	Are united heart and hand
To destroy the peace of the nations;
	The judgments of God are near,
He will pour out His indignation,
	And man his God will fear. 

The rich in vanity and splendor
	In palaces gorgeously arrayed—
The poor have cause to murmur
	When their children cry for bread—
They have forgotten their wise Creator,
	And unto fables now give ear;
They will have to endure His vengeance,
	And man his God will fear.

They have changed the laws and covenants,
	And they are wafting to and fro,
And are worshipers of mammon,
	Endeavoring the truth to o'erthrow;
As well might they say to the sun, "Be still!"
	To the angry waves, "Stay there!"
The kingdom will continue to grow,
	And man his God will fear.

Zion's banner is now unfurled,
	The Gospel must be preached,
For the field is white to harvest,
	We will gather in the wheat;
We will call them to repentance,
And to oease their wild career,
	And teach the laws of heaven,
For man his God must fear.

		REWETI.
Sept. 10, 1886.


[Column 1]

VISIT TO THE POET WHITTIER.

[Concluded.]

	After conversing with the ladies of the
house very pleasantly for some time, they
offered to show me the suite of rooms oc-
cupied by their illustrious cousin, and took me

[Column 2]

up stairs, and into the poet's study, or library,
where he spends most of his time when at Oak
Knoll, and where many of his later poems
have been written. The rich carpet and rugs, 
the hangings and furnishings were elegant, and
in perfect keeping with the taste of the Quaker
author. The desk was a large and handsome
one, it was unlocked, and one of the cousins
opened it for me to look in. It displayed the
usual litter of literary people. Around the
room, perfectly arranged, were book-cases and
shelves of books in library style; hundreds of
volumes, selected, no doubt, with the greatest
care. In short, the room was attractively fin-
ished and furnished, and with the living poet
at his desk, must indeed have been a picture
beautiful to gaze upon. I was then shown the
sleeping apartment, a large square chamber, 
over the parlor, I think—the large and com
fortable looking bed in the centre of this room,
with the head to the north. The windows
looked out upon the grounds, beautifully laid
out, and ornamented with the choicest shrub-
bery. Everything to conduce to convenience,
luxury and comfort; one could easily imagine
it a fitting place for rest from toil and brain
work, and well adapted for the slumber of the
great American poet.
	As my time was limited, and I must catch
the train back to Boston that evening, the
ladies ordered their own hore and sleigh to
take me back to the depot, and I bade them an
affectionate goodbye, kissing each of those
sweet and lovely women. They had given me
the necessary information to look up Elizabeth
Stuart Phelps, which, by the bye, I intend tell-
ing of at another time, and also how to reach
Amesbury the following day.
	The next morning I left the Parker House
at Boston on an early train for Amesbury, and
arrived about ten o'clock. Amesbury is a
pretty old town, very unpretending in appear-
ance as far as I could judge in passing through
it, but it has the fascination of being the poet's
home and birthplace, and many, probably the
greater part, of his poems, were written there. 
I took a carriage (on runners) from the station 
to Mr Whittier's home, some little distance
away, and as soon as the driver knew where I 
was going he seemed very talkative, but I was
too busy with my own imaginings to pay much
attention to his conversation, and we were soon
at the gate. I was not long in gaining admit-
tance, for the day was bitter cold. It is a very
plain looking two story house, painted white,
the snow banked up around it, as one sees
in that country usually in midwinter. The
maid who answered the door invited me to
come in, in the most genial manner, and took
my card, coming back directly with a kindly
smile of welcome on her face, saying, "Come
into the parlor, lady." I followed, and was
met halfway by the poet himself; who, after
shaking hands with me, observing the fire had
not been kindled there, invited me into his
study, where a bright coal fire was burning in
an open stove. He welcomed me with the
hospitality of an old courtier of the days of
chivalry; his manner, his benevolent face, his
smooth, snow-white hair, and his long black
broadcloth coat all helped to give him a most
venerable appearance, and I was charmed with
his genuine and courtly bearing. He talked
freely to me of our people, and made various
inquiries about the Edmunds law and its en-
forcement. He wanted to know why Senator
Edmunds was so persistent in his efforts and
measures to uproot Mormonism. I answered
his questions on our subject to the best of my
ability, and as answers gave rise to other ques-
tions, the time flew as it were on wings. Our
conversation was almost entirely of Utah, its
past, present and future, and much of it re-
lated more especially to women. It was one of
the most interesting interviews that I ever have
had, and I enjoyed it thoroughly. When he

[Column 3]

learned I was going to Boston by the afternoon
train, he insisted on my remaining there and
dining with him instead of going to the hotel.
The invitation was given in such a way that it
would have been positively rude to refuse, and
I fully appreciated the courtesy and the kind-
ness; it was much more than I had expected, 
and I felt it was for me a rare opportunity.
Mr. W. evidently enjoyed the conversation, in-
deed he manifested it plainly in words and
manner, and as he had never before seen a
"Mormon" woman, it was something quite
novel to him. He sent for Mrs. Cate, who has
charge of the house, and, after introducing me,
asked her to hurry the dinner, so we might
have plenty of time, and I could catch the
three o'clock train.
	At the table Judge Cate and his wife occu-
pied seats opposite each other, and I was seated
opposite the poet, an honor I shall ever remem-
ber with pleasure. The conversation at the
dinner table was general, and very intertaining, 
but the only thing that caused any remark
was the huckleberry pie; it was the first I had
tasted since my girlhood days, and brought
back to me many pleasant recollections of
green pastures and beautiful hills, and gay
parties of boys and girls laughing merrily and
tripping gaily from hill to vale.
	After dinner we had some further conversa-
tion, and he talked to me of his literary pur-
suits, his love of outdoor pleasures and so forth,
and of poets and poetry, both of New England
and the West. He gave me a photograph of
his study in which we had been sitting, and
where, as he informed me, he had written
many of his poems. He also gave me a mem-
orial containing the names of distinguished
authors, who had asked for international copy-
right, and hunted through his closet for a
picture of Oak Knoll, but not finding a copy,
promised to send me one at some future time. 
However,  I had lingered until nearly train
time, and at last bade the renowned poet and
gentleman a reluctant goodbye.
	After my return to Boston that evening, I
made explicit notes of my visit, much more
than I have given here, and in the evening
went to the Globe Theatre to see Lawrence
Barratt in "Hernani."
		AUNT EM.


﻿Postmaster Vilas has decided that female
clerks may marry and still retain their clerk-
ships. A wise and just decision.
	Miss Phebe Couzins has been superseded as
United States Marshal by Judge J. W. Emer-
son, of Ironton, Mo., a nephew of Ralph
Waldo Emerson. It is said that he did not
seek the appointment, and may not accept it.
	Mrs. General Devereux, for ten years a
valued member of the Cincinnati Commercial
Gazette staff, has been made an honorary com-
missioner of the Centennial Exposition to be
held in Cincinnati next year. Miss Chris-
tine Sullivan, the artist, and Miss Louise Mc-
Laughlin, artist and author, are other ladies
named upon this commission.
	The Working Girl's Institute, as Bridgeport,
Ct, was formally dedicated not long ago. It
was built by Warner Brothers, at a cost of
$100,000. It contains a reading-room, a library
of three thousand volumes, handsomely fitted
parlors, a lecture-room and class-room to be
used for an evening school. In addition to the
every-day branches, music, painting, sewing
and crocheting will be taught, while there is
provision for instruction in dressmaking and
other industries. Attached to the institute will
be a savings bank, the privileges of which will
he extended to all the help in the works, men
as well as women, and every employee who de-
posits two dollars a month is promised a bonus
of half a dollar by the firm in addition to the
regular rate of interest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year,  $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 1, 1887.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	DURING the month of November there have
been several changes in the condition of affairs
here in Utah as regards Church property. It has 
been a subject for thought and reflection, and can
not but be commented upon by all those who pos-
sess an inkling of the sense of justice and right
It is comparatively easy to submit to injustice
when there is a prospect before one that the wrong
will be righted, but in the case of taking the accu-
mulation of means, the hard earnings of the poor
given as a free offering to the Lord's work, and
appropriating it to public uses, it seems too dread-
ful to be true.  Even the newspapers that have 
denounced "Mormons" in strong terms, take this
view, that Congress should, at an early day, look
into this important matter.
	In this matter of taking Church property,
women are as much interested as men are, and
feel it quite as deeply. They have paid tithing
and given donations after the pattern of the
ancient Saints, and they have taught their children
the principle of tithing, through which the Lord
has promised in the Scriptures special blessings to
be poured out upon His people. The government
of the United States cannot lay any claim to the
property the Lord has blest and increased in the
hands of His servants. But the same spirit ani-
mates the hearts of men of the world now-a-days
as in the religious persecutions of the past. We
hear of Elders who are preaching the Gospel be-
ing maltreated, whipped and abused, meetings
broken up, and innocent people persecuted be-
cause they entertain "Mormon" Elders; but so it
has ever been when the true Gospel has been
upon the earth, and notwithstanding all this the
kingdom is onward; light and knowledge and
power is increasing, and nought can stay the pro-
gress of the work of God established in these last
days, never to be thrown down or given to another
people.
	When one hears of the many great calamities
that transpire from time to time, accidents by land
and by sea, the human lives that are thus destroyed,
the many suicides and murders, it is almost too
much for the soul to contemplate, and it is no
wonder that the Prophet asked the Lord to shut
up the vision, when He showed him what would
come to pass in the last days. In many instances
the Lord has miraculously preserved the lives of
His Saints in their journeyings to and fro; an un-
seen hand has led them and preserved them from
dangers in perilous places. For this blessing, and
many others, the Saints should be exceedingly
grateful to their Heavenly Father, and as He has
guided His people in the past, and preserved them
when their enemies came upon them, so will He
lead them in the future out of the darkness into
light, and the trials and difficulties will He sanctify
to their good, and if they are despoiled of their
goods and property unjustly, and they rebel not
against His commandments, He will multiply His
blessings upon them even more abundantly than
before. The Saints are learning some difficult

[Column 2]

lessons, that require great patience and the truest
humility, and entire devotion to the faith they have
espoused; no half-heartedness, but a sublime
consecration of one's time and talents in the great 
and glorious work now being accomplished.  After 
all it seems so little one can do even in a lifetime,
but when there is a union of effort more good can
be effected.
	Sisters, let us not be weary in well doing, or
faint by the wayside, because of trials to be borne,
or temptations to be overcome; or allow ourselves
to be remiss in any of the duties assigned to us,
whether at home or in a public capacity, but press
forward to obtain the victory and blessing promised
to the faithful. If we seek for wisdom aright to
order our daily lives and conversation according
to the Gospel plan, it will be given, for the Savior
said, "If any lack wisdom let him ask of God,
who giveth to all liberally and upbraideth not." It
is this wisdom that we all need to carry us safely
over and through the dangerous and narrow places
 that the Saints of God at the present time have to
pass, and which, without divine help and assist-
ance, could not be done with safety.


STAKE LIBRARY.

	On Monday, Nov. 28th, 1887, the Salt Lake Li-
brary opened in the "Old Contributor building,"
just north of Z. C. M. I.—No. 15, East Main St.
The room has been quite comfortably fixed up,
and is now opened from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.,
and from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m., and the
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Associations
should take hold and assist in extending the influ-
ence for good which this worthy institution has in
view. Not only in one, but in many ways may
they do this—by contributing books, getting out
certificates of membership, which cost but 50 cts.
for three months, during which time books may be
taken out each week, of the time extended another
week. They may go and read all day without cost
to them.
	It is to be hoped that the public generally
will take an interest in striving to build up the
Reading Room, and make it one of the best read-
ing rooms, and such a place as will be a credit to
the community.
	It is certainly a praiseworthy, benevolent enter-
prise, for many young people who have no com-
fortable place to spend their evenings, are, through
various influences, brought into evil company,
and thus, perhaps, ruined for a lifetime, and their
hopes of an exaltation hereafter wrecked also.
Here now is a field opened for instruction and
amusement of a character calculated to strengthen
the attributes of the soul, as the committee have
selected such books as will promote good and not
evil, truth and not error, and although some per-
sons may maintain that, reading is not an amuse-
ment, yet it can easily be proven that there are
many books that amuse, while they also impress
useful and important lessons upon the mind. We
heartily endorse this movement, and hope the
sisters generally will use their influence to make
it all that is desirable in an institution of this
kind.


[Column 1]﻿

SYNOPSIS OF SERMON.

	On Sunday November 20, 1887, in the Taber-
nacle the congregation was addressed by

BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY.
	He realized to some extent the responsibility of
speaking to this people in the name of the Lord.
The preaching of the Gospel and exemplifying its
principles in our lives is the most important thing
we have to do. It is the highest ministry and
greatest honor that can be given to men in the
flesh. Christ, in speaking to Peter, the man
whom he had chosen to stand at the head of the
work on earth which He had established, made

[Column 2]

as the test of his love for Him, that he should feed
the sheep of God, and give unto them the bread
of life.
	The Gospel is the perfect law of liberty, for it
is the design of the Almighty that His children
shall be free; for this the American government
was founded, on a land of liberty, preparatory to
ushering in the Gospel, liberty's perfect law. A
perfect liberty not only casts down tyrants from
their thrones and bursts the fetters of the slave,
but also delivers the mind from captivity, opens
the spiritual dungeons, dispelling darkness and
despair and ushering forth the prisoner of doubt
and sin into the life and light of Gospel freedom.
	The American patriots struck not only for per-
sonal liberty, but liberty for mankind and posteri-
ty. Only small souls lived and labored for them-
selves, their immediate relatives, and for the pres-
ent moment. The great soul is as a mighty warrior,
battling for human good and human rights. Upon
his helmet crest is written, not "Me and mine,"
but "God and my fellowman." Christ was such
a warrior; not his own will but the will of his
Father was his foremost thought; the welfare of
the human family. This is why the angels sang
above His cradle, "Glory to God in the highest,
and on earth peace, good will toward men."
	In Him was made good the promise of the
Lord to Abraham: "In thee and thy seed shall
all the nations of the earth be blest." In His
veins flowed that precious blood, the blood of
Israel, with which God has "sprinkled many na-
tions" for their salvation. Would it be too much
to suppose that in the veins of every good and
great man, inspired and raised up as a benefactor
to his race, there was to be found some of
this blood of Israel with which all nations
were to "be blessed?" Let that be as it may, it is
certain that all such men are the Lord's instru-
ments, and that all men of every nation are and
have ever been carrying out His purposes and
fulfilling His great designs, whether they were
aware of it or not. We are told we must acknowl-
edge the hand of the Lord in all things.
	We hear much boasting nowadays concerning
blood and lineage, and some Latter-day Saints
seem prouder if they can trace their families back
to some Norman noble, or robber Baron,
some Duke, or Lord, or Governor, than they
appear to be of their own membership in the
Church of Christ,or of the blood of Israel in their
veins.  There is a great deal of talk of "blue
blood" and "first families," etc., even among the
people of God, the Latter-day	Saints.
Are we not all of one blood, the blood of
Abraham? Are we not all members of the one
"first family" of the earth; the family of our father
Adam?  And above and beyond all, are we not the
sons and daughters of God; we and all the rest
of mankind?
	"Blood will tell" its quality, give it whatever
name you may. True nobility, real greatness, is
not to sit upon a throne, to wear a high head and
a haughty mien, nor does it consist in purple and
gold and fine linen: no more than humility con-
sists in rags and dirt. It will prove itself in hum-
ble and faithful deeds. The highest in very deed
will be the humblest. The King of kings thought
it no disgrace to wash the feet of His humblest
disciple; for "He came not to be ministered unto,
but to minister." "He who would be great among
you," said He "let him be your minister." To
minister is to serve.
	"If ye are the children of Abraham," the Son
of God said to the Jews, "Ye will do the works of
Abraham." What works? Works of faith and
humility, being willing to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in all things, and live by every word
that proceedeth from His mouth. Had they done
this, they never would have put to death the Son
of God, they never would have taken the dead
letter and with it condemned the living oracle;
they would have sacrificed their preconceived no-


[Column 1]

tions and ideas and accepted the new revelation
of God's will, instead of pinning their faith to the
dead writings of Moses and the Prophets; only to
be properly interpreted by the Spirit which they
rejected. They were of the earth earthy; their
minds were materialized, and in their overweening
desire for a temporal deliverance and possession
of earthly things, they overlooked and ignored the
greater deliverance offered them, the spiritual
freedom of the Gospel, the riches of eternal life.
	The tests of faith are various, adapted to all
natures and conditions. The test applied to one
man in the days of the Savior was to "sell all he
had and give to the poor." He could not stand
the test, for he idolized his wealth, instead of wor-
shiping God. Abraham's test was far greater;
gold and silver would have been nothing to him;
he was touched in his tenderest spot, where all
will be tested. The strength of a chain is the
strength of its weakest link, the wall that
is weakest is the wall against which the
battering ram of temptation will be directed.
Abraham was required to offer up his only
son, and hard though the struggle must have
been, he made the sacrifice in his heart, though it
was not required of him to consummate the act.
He stood the test and became the father of the
faithful. He was a brave man, not one who did
not feel—for many men are called brave because
they have no sense of danger—but a man who
felt and suffered, and yet, like Christ, groaning in
his agony of trial, went forward and performed
the will of God. Such men are the bravest of the
brave; they are men of giant souls.
	The Latter-day Saints, though they have come
through a Gentile lineage, have been taught they
are the children of Abraham. What is the test?
That they do the works of Abraham; live by every
word of God, keep his commandments and con-
fess His hand in all things; willing to lay their all
upon the altar and sacrifice earth for heaven, the
temporal for the spiritual, time for eternity.
	It is hard to discourage a people who will do
this; who see in all things the hand of the Lord
over them for their good and his own glory. Who
can say with Job, "I know that my Redeemer liv-
eth and that He will stand at the latter-day upon
the earth; and though, after my skin, worms de-
stroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God."
	The Saints have passed through worse scenes
than the present; they have been robbed and
driven and oppressed, and many have suffered
even death for the Gospel's sake; and their chil-
dren, if they are the true issue of such noble
fathers and mothers, will prove their integrity in
like manner.  Only the chaff will be blown away,
the wheat will remain; the children of the
world will go back into the world, but the
children of Abraham will endure, like him, faith-
ful unto the end.
	It matters not whether we be rich or poor, bond
or free; in sorrow or in joy; if we know that God
lives, and we are engaged in His cause, and are
true to our professions, all that happens will be for
our best good.
	When the Saints were stripped of all their earth-
ly possessions, and driven out of Missouri, Heber
C. Kimball, an Apostle, wrote to the Church in
England: "Be of good cheer, brethren and sisters;
the Church was never in as good a condition as
now; they have lost all their earthly goods and are
now ready to go forth and preach the Gospel to a
dying world."
	A people who hold such views cannot be dis-
couraged; not even by death.
	It was Governor Lilburn W. Boggs, an Ameri-
can, who issued the edict "to exterminate the
'Mormons' or drive them from the State." God
 be thanked that the Saints are not of such a stripe
of Americans as this man, who could thus rob a
helpless and innocent people; expelling 15,000
Americans from their homes, in a land of liberty,
for the sake of their religion.  Such men may say

[Column 2]

they are Americans; but they are freedom's bas-
tards, they are not her sons.
	Let our motto be peace, and good will to all
men, and our lives be spent in the promotion of
the principles of the Gospel, the plan of salvation,
the perfect law of liberty.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

AN AUNTIE'S NOTIONS ABOUT CHIL-
DREN.

REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS.

	Doubtless the best and highest motive which
can impel either child or adult to obedience is a
sense of duty and love to the person whose wishes
are to be respected. But experience teaches us
that, owing to the frailty of human nature, these
noblest feelings are often not sufficiently developed,
and lack the necessary power to effect the desired
end; in which case we have the divine authority
for adopting a system of rewards and punishments
for the enforcement of beneficent laws.
	It has seemed to me that the chief evil to be
guarded against in giving rewards is the tenden-
cy to degenerate into bribery. A child is told to
do a thing which in itself is simple enough, such
as, Go to bed, or come and be washed, and he
objects. "Do, and I'll give you so-and-so" says
the weak-minded mother or nurse, and if the
juvenile complies, prides herself, possibly, upon
her tact; whereas she has not only in all proba-
bility involved herself in the providing of a simi-
lar bribe upon all future occasions, but worse still,
has committed the grave error of offering to the
child a premium for disobedience; for had the child
promptly and unmurmuringly done as he was told,
he would have had no reward. I once knew two
little boys who were suffering from the same ill-
ness. The one took all necessary medicine and
nourishment without objection, and received no
prize; his brother made a point of refusing un-
less offered some substantial inducement to obedi-
ence, and consequently grew rich upon the bribes
he thus obtained. Was not this unjust and de-
moralizing?
	Some people get their children in the habit of
never going to bed without a sweetmeat or bis-
cuit as an incentive to willingness; and at any
time the accustomed goodie is not forthcoming,
the wailing that follows is both loud and long.
One mother I knew had also brought up her little
son to always expect pennies for the smallest ser-
vice he performed on her behalf and as a result
I have often heard the most unseemly bargaining
when he has been asked to do anything, as to how
much she would pay him for it! Thus one can
not help seeing the fallacy of giving rewards as a
regular thing,to be expected, and taken as a right,
rather than as an occasional encouragement and a
proof that an effort to be good is not unnoticed.
	Of course any special arrangement for enabling
a child by industry to earn a little
pocket money comes under a different head;
as does also a particular prize for some unusual
effort—the mastery of an extraordinary task, or
the conquering of an objectionable habit. But
now to speak of punishments. Our Poet Laureate
says:

	"He that only rules by terror
	Doeth grievous wrong."

	And the parent whose sole notion of discipline
is to hold the rod, figuratively speaking, perpetual-
ly over his children's heads, is certainly unfit for
his responsbilities. I do not now intend to dwell
upon the question of whether corporeal punish-
ment, as a rule, is or is not, advisable; but it is un-
deniable that the form of punishment must vary
with the different dispositions of the children on
whom it is to be inflicted, and the character of
the offense which called it forth. Therefore I am
inclined to think that for boys of coarse, heavy,
material nature, and for the commission of such

[Column 2]

wrong-doing as wanton cruelty to animals or
smaller children, physical suffering is the mos
suitable penalty. Others may be deterred from
evil by the prospect of being deprived of some
much-prized pleasure, or expected dainty; while
for those of fine and sensitive mind and who
have been well brought up, the withdrawal for a
lime of the parent's approval will be all sufficient.
But no mother should upon any account hold
forth a threat which she is not firmly resolved, if
necessary, to carry out to the uttermost.
	Concerning this subject, however, the thought
that presses one most strongly is that the correc-
tion should be administered from a right motive
and be absolutely just. The only ground on
which punishment should be imposed upon any
child is the hope that the penalty may prove a de-
terent. To punish from a feeling of personal an-
noyance is simple revenge, and fatal to justice;
besides which it shows a very bad example.
Charlie inadvertently knocks the table at which
we are writing, and spills the ink; in sudden
anger we box his ears. Presently Charlie's little
brother as unintentionally upsets the blocks with
which he is building, and is sent away crying with
a hearty slap. We condemn Charlie's behavior
as unkind; but from whom did he copy it? Again,
when administering correction in the heat of irri-
tation, how are we to guard against being influ-
enced by mood?—a precaution which is essential.
An inoffensive action can not become punishable
because the mother has had a bad night with baby,
and feels cross, any more than a wrong deed can
be made excusable because she happens to be in
an unusual good temper. Yet how many children
are made to suffer, and often wrongfully, in con-
sequence of temporary peevishness in the pa-
rent, or merely from a spirit of retaliation!
	Furthermore, in order to judge fairly of the mer-
its of a case, one must take time to weigh
thoroughly the probable motives of the child's
conduct, to consider whether it arose from ignor-
ance or wilfulness, from mere thoughtlesness or
from a wish to annoy; for the feeling underlying
the action, and not the amount of damage or
trouble resulting should be the gauge of the pen-
alty. Throwing stones, if forbidden, is equally
wrong, whether or not a broken window is the
consequence; and the latter disaster, though
causing vexation and expense, does not actually
aggravate the fault. A pure accident should
never be visited with severer reproof than an ad-
monition to greater carefulness in future. A pen-
alty for any offense should, moreover, never be
inflicted if there is a chance that vrebal remon-
strance may be sufficient; and in no case without
first hearing impartially the culprit's own
statement as to the reason for his conduct; it may
easily be seen whether he is offering empty ex-
cuses, or any real paliation of his fault.
     But in order that this plan may work well, and
unerring justice be done, the child must from his
earliest years be trained to absolute candor and
truthfulness.
		JENNIE CHAPPELL.


ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Jubilee festivities are now drawing to a
close with the year, and soon they will be con-
sidered things of the past. We have seen, this
last twelve months, many magnificent sights
and pageants, that will be handed down to pos-
terity We have heard the flattering remarks
of respect, and beheld the many beautiful
gifts presented to our beloved Queen, from al-
most every nation upon the earth, and no Eng-
lish heart  can feel other than proud of these
tokens of esteem towards the illustrious
Sovereign whom the King of kings has spared
so long to govern her people.
	Bright as the year has been in many re-


[Column 1]

﻿spects, it has brought sorrow to many; England
has lost many of her noblest men, both in liter-
ary, political and social circles. The terrible
disaster at a theatre in Exeter, which resulted
in the death of so many people. and brought
misery to so many homes, alone makes this an
eventful year, and one long to be remembered
by the widows and orphans and friends of the
poor ill-fated victims. 
	A number of statues have been erected in
various parts of the kingdom as memorials of
the Jubilee, but the Imperial Institute, as I
have previously stated, is to be the National
Memorial, and many thousands of pounds have
been poured into its treasury from foreign
countries, as well as our own. It was proposed
by the Prince of Wales, that all classes, with-
out distinction of class, creed or race, should
unite to raise this tribute to Her Majesty, the
Queen, and donations as low as one shilling are
accepted. The Committee have laid down as
the basis of their programme, that "the pur-
pose and effect of the Institute is to advance
the commercial and industrial resources of
every part of the empire." They also propose
it shall include "collection of samples of pro-
duce, and of manufacturing industries, a
library for industrial, commercial and economic
study." A fully equipped map-room, for geo-
graphical and geological reference, a special
library for patents and inventions, and arrange-
ments for the "collection and diffusion" for the
benefit of intending emigrants and others; also
the fullest information in regard to the indus-
trial and material condition of the Colonies,
and of the particular direction in which they
are susceptible of further development; so that
it may be indicated that its operations will
probably be embraced within four chief sec-
tions, viz: Industries, Commerce, Technical and
Commercial Education, and Emigration. It
is now in course of erection at South Kensing-
ton, and, from appearances, I should say when
finished it will be a very fine building; the
good it will achieve remains to be proved.
	The Jubilee presents have all been taken to
St. James' Palace, and the public are allowed
to view them, without any fee being charged,
for a few weeks only, and one is amply repaid
for a visit.
	After passing through an enormous crowd
we found ourselves within the charmed interior
of a Palace that has great historical interest,
and on going up the old-fashioned stairs, the
first thing noticeable is a splendid oil painting 
of one of the kings of England, by a celebra-
ted painter. The first room contains a hand-
some pair of elephant's tusks, and some equally
handsome horse-trappings of cloth of gold and
the most exquisite embroidery; also an antique
dinner gong, which is suspended over a brass
head. Passing to the next room, there are
many costly gifts, far too numerous to mention;
the most conspicuous were as follows: A chair
of beautiful workmanship, executed by the
basket-makers of Wickham and presented by
the Mayor and the Aldermen of that place; a 
handsome round table, inlaid with mother of
pearl and precious stones; an ivory chair is also
shown; the back and seat are covered with em-
broidery worked in gold thread in a most ex-
quisite manner; the blending of colors in this
delicate work displayed the greatest taste we
have seen for some time. It was worked and
presented by a lady who resides at Hughenden
the estate of the late Earl of Beaconstield. The
plate presented by the children and grandchild-
ren of the Queen is very richly ornamented,
and very handsome, and a beautiful silver de-
sert service, from the servants of the royal
household, deserves credit for the taste dis-
played. I noticed in the Throne Room an
immense ostrich feather fan of snowy whiteness,
that was too large for anything but ornament.
It was in this room that the addresses of con-
gratulation were displayed, and there seemed

[Column 2]

no end to them. The Jubilee cake was on
view also. It was presented by Gunters, the
confectioners, who begged the Queen to accept
it, because they made the coronation cake fifty
years ago. By the courtesy of Mr. Gunter, we
inspected it before its presentation, and candid-
ly confess we never saw anything of its kind to
equal it before. It was over ten feet high, and
nine feet in circumference. There are medal-
lions of the Queen and the late Prince Consort
on either side; the crown, composed of gilt and
white satin is elevated on a pedestal under a
canopy, and is approached by dozens of steps
moulded in the icing. This canopy rests upon
four pillars, the base of each being guarded by
a lion; above this there are four heralds with
trumpets, who are proclaiming the Jubilee to
the world. The dove and an olive branch signi-
fying peace is the topmost ornament of this
exquisite gift. The beading of sugar round
this immense cake is composed of roses, sham-
rocks and thistles, typical of the three king-
doms, England, Ireland and Scotland. It is a
masterpiece of the confectioner's art, and does
great credit to Messrs. Gunters for the patience
in execu ing so beautiful a design, and it was
well worthy to grace the festival of the Jubilee.
It weighs over a quarter of a ton. After pass-
ing through many galleries which contain the
portraits of the English kings and queens for
ages back, by the beat masters of painting, we
again found ourselves in Pall Mall, well satis
fied with the visit we had paid. The grand
old Palace is now almost exclusively used for
levees, at which the Prince of Wales presides,
and all presentations are equivalent to pre-
sentations to Her Majesty.
	I promised to tell you my impressions of the 
American Exhibition that was held at Bromp-
ton, when I had visited it. It is now closing,
and seems to have been very successful. The
interior of the Exhibition is very nice. The
many useful and fancy articles for sale, new
inventions, and glimpses into American cus-
toms rendered it more than usually interesting,
particularly to those who hope to reside in
America in the future. The dried and pre-
served fruits looked especially tempting, and
made us confess, however unwilling, that their
mode of preserving fruits far excelled our En-
glish ways, and wherever we turned everything
was "so American" and so "nice" and so pe-
culiar to themselves, that it quite made us long
to fly away to the home where these niceties
came from. Consequently everything "Ameri-
can" is the rage just now.
	There is a very interesting picture gallery at
the Exhibition, and it contains a charming
picture of Miss Mary Anderson; also some
splendid scenes of battle. Two pictures took
my fancy greatly in the collection; one was
entitled, 'A Storm in the Rocky Mountains."
and the lights and shades in this picture were 
simply exquisite, and it was with regret that
I left it to gaze on others of less artistic value.
The other was the picture of a woman on the
brink of the river, and the despair that was
written upon her countenance reminded me
very forcibly of the poet; when he wrote:

	"Mad from life's history,
	Glad to death's mystery;
	Swift to be hurled,
	Anywhere, anywhere out of the world."

The statuary was also very nice. The enter-
tainment given by Colonel Cody was very in-
structive and amusing. The Indians, who
seemed to possess very intelligent faces, and
were finely built men, looked very picturesque
in their peculiar attire and still more peculiar
paint. Their swift horsemanship is a great
marvel. A settler is represented as coming to
take up his abode with them; the Indians, who
have been watching them, surprise them and
threaten to destroy them, when a party of
cow-boys come to the settlers' rescue, and finally

[Column 3]

the Indians retreat, and we are left to imagine,
as the children tell us, that they lived happy
ever after in good old story book fashion. After
the performance was over we were allowed to
inspect the scene of action, their wigwams and
tents; also the tents of the cow-boys, which
looked very clean, and were fixed up nattily
with rugs, and in some instances lace antima-
cassars were thrown over the chairs, which
somewhat surprised us, knowing how the oppo-
site sex usually denounce these "little effects"
in a room, to the terror of every good house-
wife. These cow-boys were very nice looking
and stalwart men, very pleasant to speak to,
and were certainly clever riders. Such horse-
manship is unequalled. Their breaking in wild
horses, who endeavored repeatedly to throw 
them, was especially commendable. The
grounds were very prettily laid out with flowers,
and the bands were very cheerful, the music
was very popular, and suited the tastes of the
visitors. The gardens were illuminated in the
evening, and it was then used as a fashionable
promenade for all classes. A switchback Rail-
way and tobogganing slide, attracted the juven-
ile portion of the visitors, and not a few elder-
ly people, who, for the novelty of the thing,
trusted themselves to this quick mode of travel-
ing, only to say when landed at their destina-
tion, "Never again". The manager of the "Wild
West" is Colonel W. F. Cody, and his portrait is
exhibited at almost every stationer's. He is
considered a very fine looking, handsome man.
The ladies are credited with this statement, but
even they are not unanimous on this point. Be
it as it may, he is the lion of the hour in aristo-
cratic circles; no garden party, or banquet, or
ball was considered complete this season unless
he was present, and this craze went so far that
it was fashionable to write his name upon the
corner of all invitation cards as an inducement
to those who received them to attend. However,
the season is now over for London, and Colonel
Cody will soon return to America, if reports
are to be believed, and nothing but sweet or
bitter memories, as the case may be, will be
left.
	The Queen is now staying at Balmoral with
the Princess Beatrice, who has just given birth
to an infant Princess. The Queen is much at-
tached to Princess Henry of Battenburg, who
is her youngest daughter, and her constant
companion, and upon her marriage Her Majesty
expressed a desire that she should remain with
her, and she has accordingly done so. The
Prince and Princess of Wales are having a
little trouble; their three daughters while
abroad have contracted the measles, but from
reports circulated, we may now hope they will
recover. The Princess has nursed them with
untiring devotion, and by so doing sets an ex-
ample to all mothers worthy of imitation, and
although a Princess, she never for one moment
forgets that she is a mother, and her children
claim her attention and care before all else. If
this noble lady and her husband live till March
10th, 1888, they will complete the 25th anni-
versary of their wedding-day, and many will
be the prayers that will ascend to heaven for
her happiness and prosperity.
	I must draw this to a close, hoping my en-
deavors to interest and amuse you have suc-
ceeded. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion,
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		MARION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
HUNTINGTON.
Editor Woman's Exponent:
Thinking you might find space for a few
lines in the columns of your little paper, I take
pleasure in writing them.
Our society is in a thriving condition con-


[Column 1]
﻿sidering that this is a new place. We have a
granary nearly completed which will hold
about one thousand bushels of grain, and hope
to have it filled some day. I think we will
have it all paid for this fall.
	There has been considerable sickness here
this fall with typhoid fever. But the sisters
seem to be doing all they can to help one an
other. There is a good spirit in our society.
Our monthly meetings are well attended con-
sidering there is so much sickness. Wishing
the EXPONENT the success it deserves, I re-
main,
			Your sister,
				Julia Whitney, Sec.

		FIFTH WARD, OGDEN.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	Dear Sister:—In compliance with your
request I send you condensed minutes of the
organization of our Relief Society.
	According to appointment a goodly number
of the sisters residing in the Fifth Ward, also
Prest. Jane S. Richards and Courselors, met
with the Bishopric of said ward, on the 13th
day of June 1887, to organize a Relief Society.
	After the usual opening exercises, the Bishop
said he bad consulted with his Counselors and
Prest J. S. Richards in regard to officers, and
they had decided on the following sisters,
whose names were presented and unanimously
sustained: Rachel F. Burton, President;
Maria S. Stevens and Martha H. Brown, Coun-
selors; Mary A. Watson, Secretary; Lydia Mor-
rison, Assistant Secretary; Sarah Watson,
Treasurer.
	After the organization was effected, the sis-
ters who had been elected, being called upon
expressed themselves willing to act in the po-
sitions assigned them, and desired the assist-
ance of the Holy Spirit that their labors might
result in much good.
President Richards, her Counselors, and
Counselor G.W. Larkin addressed the meeting,
giving much wise instruction and many words
of encouragment.
	After a few closing remarks by the Bishop
the meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing. Benediction. 

		DAVIS STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So
ciety of Davis Stake was held in the East Boun-
tiful Meeting House Oct. 21, 1887, Prest.
Susan Grant presiding. Present on the stand
were Sisters B. W. Smith and Emma Bull
from Salt Lake City. After singing, Prayer
was offered by Sister Mary Clark. Continued
by singing, and minutes of previous conference
were read and approved.
	President Grant made opening remarks and
suggested hearing from the presidents of the
different branches. 
	Prest. Atkinson reported South Bountiful
Relief Society, spoke of the importance of be-
ing united, that we may have the Spirit of the
Lord to dwell with us. If we do not improve
our privileges the Lord will not bless us; hoped
to be able to stand all the trials we have to
pass through; if we strive to keep the Spirit of
the Lord, it will take us safely through.
	President Muir said, I feel to do all the good
I can; we are thinking of building a granary;
I ask the Lord to bless each one of you and
may His Spirit rest on all who speak.
	Coun. Nancy Willey represented East Boun-
tiful Society; said there are a few who are al-
ways present and ready to attend to all their
duties	
	Prest. Randall reported Centerville Society;
said she felt more and more interested in the
society the longer she was associated with it;
we feel well and united to try to look after the
poor, and our other duties; the Lord will ac-
cept our labors if we do the best we can.

[Column 2]
Sister Barkdall said she was thankful she
had a standing in this church and desired to live
so she could claim the blessings of the Lord;
we should make it a business of asking
the Lord to help us, if we are faithful in the
discharging of our duties, He will bless us and
we will have joy in our bosoms.
	Sister B. W. Smith said I have nothing new
to advance, but feel to encourage the sisters.
There are a great many who are sick and poor
and it is our duty to attend to them. Said she
was present at the first organization of the Re-,
lief Society by Joseph Smith; he used to meet
with us and she believed he would again.We
ought to be very good women, and live so
that we may he prepared for the good things
that await us. It is good to meet together for it
creates a love and union with one another; felt
that she never had any trials but what she
couId overcome; had felt that she had had sup-
ernatural strength given her to perform her
duties; I ask the Lord to bless you and our
brethren that are in prison, and may He bless
and help us to keep the faith.
	Coun. Lucinda Brown said she was proud to
have a standing in this church and associated
with the best women in the world; she had
passed through great trials, had never been
tried in principles of the gospel, we have all
we can do to keep ourselves and our children
right; when we rise up and speak by the spirit
of the Lord it will be edifying. It is my
prayer that we may overcome and live right in
the sight of the Lord.
	Coun. Mary Clark said it renews and en-
courages us to meet together; we can have rev-
elation if we live for it; it is the older ones that
should set an example. Feel and realize, that
the hand of the Lord is over us; we will be
blessed in looking after the poor; may we do
good continually; I feel to say in my heart God
bless you all.
	Prest. Grant said, we have had a good time
and will adjourn until 2 p m. Singing. Bene-
diction by Counselor Brown.
	Afternoon meeting: Opened by singing.
Prayer by Prest. Layton. Singing.
	Sister Emma Bull said it is our privilege to
receive the Spirit of the Lord if we live for
it; if we accept these persecutions with the
spirit the Lord designs us to, it will do us good;
am quite sure we will never receive an exalta-
tion without working for it; I wish my sisters
would realize the necessity of doing their work
here; it is a great privilege we have in reliev-
ing the sick aud the poor, and let me enjoin it
upon you that whatever you do, do it well; if
it is teaching or anything else, if you cannot 
attend to it properly, let some one attend to it
who can; we are passing through a very severe
trial; we must cultivate the spirit of charity
aud not judge hastily; the Savior said “we
must not only be good but appear good” and
so live that we may be an example to the out-
side world also that we may be one with our
husbands; we are promised that we shall know
a great deal; realize sisters what great things
await us; strive to improve aud increase in
knowledge, etc.
	Sister B. W. Smith, said we should put away
pride, selfishness, and selfwill, and set our
houses in order; am glad to see so many young
mothers here; it is a great thing to be a mother
and have a family of children to raise; urged
upon mothers the necessity of setting a good
example before their children, attending to
family prayers etc; refered to the trials she had
passed through; said she felt to rejoice when
she saw temples reared, where we can do the
work for our dead, there is not a command-
ment of the Lord but what is good for us;
spoke of the necessity of taking care of the
poor, and instructing the young to be careful
and prudent, to keep their houses neat and
clean, that their homes may be a heaven to
their husbands and children; thought it was a

[Column 3]
good thing to keep a journal; don’t do anything
that will bring sorrow upon us, and live so as
to enjoy the Spirit of the Lord at all times.
	Sister Rhoda Hinman said, my desire is to
live so I may enjoy the Spirit of the Lord; we
will be rewarded for what we do and should
be energetic in performing our duties; and we
should be prayerful; if we give a little we will
be blessed; it takes means to relieve the poor;
spoke of the snares that are laid for our chil-
dren; and the necessity of keeping a careful
watch over them; we should be very humble
and prayerful; this is the Kingdom set up in
the last days never more to be thrown down.
I pray God that He will strengthen and give
us His Spirit from day to day.
	Prest. Grant said “we have had a great deal
of good instruction; I saw Sister Eliza; she
sent her love to you all; we realize she presides,
over all the societies; I feel that we are blest
this day and have the Spirit of the Lord with
us; if we make up our minds to get up and
speak we will have good meetings; am glad to
see you young mothers here, it is where
you can get good instructions; teach your chil-
dren while they are young to have faith in the
Gospel; I realize that great responsibilities rest
upon us as mothers, we should try to improve
our children that they may grow up refined
and polite, and try to make our homes com-
fortable that when our children and grand chil-
dren visit us they may feel that the spirit of
the Lord is with us; take great pleasure in visit-
ing the different branches of the Society, and
if I can say a word of comfort to my sisters I
am glad. I want to speak of a little busiuess;
we need means; the Secretary is in need of a
new book, and would be glad to have the
presidents donate to help defray expenses; feel
that those who give will be blessed in giving;
don’t let us be weary in well doing. May the
blessings of God attend us in all our duties.”
	Prest. Layton said, ‘ I have a testimony to
bear, that this is the Church and kingdom of
God, and do what we may it will stand; let our
light so shine that we may set an example to
others. I desire to do all I can to help roll on
this work; have always responded to the calls
that have been made, and we ought to help
Sister Grant bear the expenses of the Stake.
It was a saying of Joseph Smith, that ‘the
liberal man lives by his liberality.’ I hope we
will try and keep the Sabbath day holy; read
the Bible and the Book of Mormon and learn
of the dealings of the Lord with those people;
we need to round up our shoulders and trust in
God; if we ever get to the top of the ladder
we will have to do our share of climbing. I
want to be an active member in doing good. I
ask the Lord to bless you, my sisters.”	
	Sister Jane Cook desired to bear her testi-
mony to this work; had always been taught to
respect the Sabbath; said she was one who was
dependent on the Relief Society; asked. the
Lord to bless those who render assistance to the
needy.
	Prest. Grant said, “We will adjourn our
conference for three months, to meet at Center-
ville.” .	’
	Singing, “Lord, dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing.” Benediction by Prest. Grant.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Ass’t Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ADDRESS,

TO THE Y. L. M. I. A. OF NEPHI, ON THE
TWELFTH ANNIVERSARY OF THEIR OR-
GANIZATION:

MY DEAR YOUNG SISTERS:
     Through the blessing of our Heavenly
Father our lives have been spared, and we are
permitted to celebrate another anniversary of


the organization of our Association.  It is a
good time to review the past, to sit down face
to face with our conscience and scrutinize our
inner self and ask ourselves if we have done
all that we could to make our Association a
success.  Is it our fault that our meetings are
not very well attended, and that our Associa-
tion is not in as good a condition as it should
be?  What benefit have our meetings been to
us?  How much have we improved?  What
have we learned during the past year?  What
have we done for the advancement of our Asso-
ciation?  Have we attended our meetings faith-
fully, and used our talents and energy to pro-
mote its interests?  Are we better daughters,
sisters, wives or mothers since we became mem-
bers of the Improvement Association?  If we
are not better in every respect than those who
do not attend our meetings, our Association is
a failure as far as we are concerned.  But it is
not a failure to those who take advantage of
the opportunities it affords for doing good to
others as well as themselves, for it is a fact,
that in teaching others we are taught, and in
blessing we are blessed.  Who can engage in a 
greater work than teaching the principles of
eternal life by precept and example? “Blessed
are those who keep the commandments of God
and teach others to do the same.” We did not
come upon this earth simply to eat, drink and
fritter away our time, seeking enjoyment in the
vain things of the world, but we had an object
in view, a mission to perform, and the little
time allotted to us in mortality is all the time
we have to obtain that object, to fill our mission
and prepare for the great eternity before us.
	Life at best is short and uncertain, surely
we should make the best of the little time we
stay, and make a good record, one that we will
not be ashamed to meet.  Our character is all
there is of us, and we have it in our own hands
to say what it shall be; it is all we can take
with us.  The record of a well spent life gives
more satisfaction than anything else on earth,
and will receive the greatest gift from our
Father, even eternal life.
	I earnestly desire that we awaken from our
indifference, and learn to appreciate the day in
which we live and the privileges that surround
us, and trust that through our energy and
faithfulness our Association will be much im-
proved when another anniversary dawns upon
us.
						M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending Nov. 1, 1887, as follows:
	Hannah C. Bailey, Utica. N. Y., attachment
for Beds for Invalids.
	Estella Case, Newport, N. Y., Combined
Shoulder-brace and back-support.
	Lousie D. Feen, Cincinnati, O., Fire-escape.
	Emma J. Whitman, Oakland, Cal., Sash-
fastener.

	Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending November 15, 1887, as fol-
lows:
	Addie M. Brock, North Plainfield, N. J.,
Fence-rail.
	Julia A. Downey, Oberlin, O., Toaster.
	Maude Murray, Bordstown, Ky., Holder for
Bed-covers.
	Hattie S. Works, Brooklyn, N. Y., Frame
for Signs.


﻿OBITUARIES.
DIED, In Huntington, Emery Co., Utah, October 15th,
1887, Catharine A. Johnson, wife of Joseph E. Johnson,
and daughter of Peter and Catharine Johnson, of Hunting


ton.  Deceased was born in Ephraim, Sanpete Co., Utah,
June 28th, 1862, and was married to Joseph E. Johnson
January 18th, 1878.  She was of a kind and gentle disposi-
tion, and an earnest worker in the cause of truth.  She was
a member of our Society, and was chosen President of the
Y. L. M. I. A. when it was first organized in this place, and
retained that position until about a year ago.  The be-
reaved husband was on a mission to the Southern States,
but returned home a few days after her burial.  She leaves
a loving husband and two little children, and a large circle
of friends and relatives to mourn her departure.
										COM.

     DIED, in Mill Creek Ward, Salt Lake County, October
17th, 1887, after a lingering illness of more than one year;
Albertine Ariminta North, born Dec. 22nd, 1867.  De-
ceased was a young lady of exemplary character, and her
acts in life were those of a good and pure girl, and she
bore her long illness with patience and fortitude.  She was
a member of the Y. L. M. I. A. and a teacher in the Sab-
bath School, and was always willing to cheerfully respond
to all calls made upon her.  She lived and died a true Lat-
ter-day Saint.  She leaves a father and mother, brothers
and sisters, and a large circle of friends to mourn her loss.
Her friends feel to sympathize with Brother and Sister
North and family in their sad bereavement, and feel to ask
the blessings of heaven to rest upon them to comfort and
cheer their hearts.
						CLARA E. SNEDAKER,
In behalf of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Mill Creek Ward.


﻿IN MEMORIAM.
	The undersigned officers of the Relief Society and Prim-
ary Association of the Bear Lake Stake of Zion, having
appointed a committee of one to draft resolutions of sym-
pathy and condolence, received and adopted the following
resolutions, as an expression of their sympathy and affection,
and in recognition of the noble life and excellent character
of the late Elizabeth Pugmire, who died at her residence in
St. Charles, Idaho, Nov. 13th, 1887:
	Inasmuch as it has pleased God in His infinite wisdom to
take from us a wise counselor, a kind and loving sister, a
fond and devoted mother, and an upright and faithful mem-
ber of the Church of Christ, whose life has been devoted
to her family, her friends and the kingdom of God; one
who in the darkest storms has never faltered, and while
passing through privations, suffering and afflictions through
the inhumanity of professing Christians—being driven from
Nauvoo in 1846—left with her first born upon the desert,
surrounded by others as helpless and destitute as herself,
while her husband, the late Jonathan Pugmire, with the
noble 500 had gone to Mexico to fight the battles of the
nation, that could not or would not protect these much
abused exiles from those who had despoiled them of their
goods, robbed them of their homes and killed their prophets
—under all these trying circumstances our brave and faith-
ful sister displayed the courage of her convictions, her de-
votion to her husband her religion and her God.  And when
the time came that she was called to share her home and
her husband with other wives, our sister was equal to the
occasion, and to the day of her death devoted herself, to
their interests and comfort, all dwelling together in peace,
love and union—an evidence to God, angels and men that
plural marriage is productive of the best interests and
greatest blessings of humanity, when entered upon and
conducted in the spirit of the Gospel.
	Sister Pugmire was the chief manager of the St. Charles
co-op store for many years, and in which she was eminently
successful.  As Secretary of the Relief Society of the Bear
Lake Stake, and Counselor to the President of the Stake
Primary Association, our sister was appreciated by all who
knew her.  In the discharge of her duties she often traveled
from Woodruff in Utah, to Soda Springs in Idaho.  It was
on her last trip to Soda Springs that she was taken with a
congestive chill, from which she never recovered.  It may
be said she died in the Gospel harness, fully equipped in
fighting the good fight of faith, and died with a sure and
certain hope of a resurrection to eternal life.  Therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That in the death of Sister Elizabeth Pugmire
we have lost a true and valued friend, a wise counselor,
and a ready and faithful worker in all that tends to the ad-
vancement of truth, wisdom, honor and intelligence.  Be
it
	Resolved, furthermore, That in this dispensation of the


Divine will, we have lost a noble mother in Zion, an exem-
plary Saint in all that is kind and loveable, faithful and
true.  And her sons and daughters and household have
suffered a loss that can never be replaced till they meet the
loved one again in the resurrection of the just.  Be it fur-
ther
	Resolved, That a copy of this preamble and resolution
be sent to the family of our beloved sister; also to the
South Eastern Independent and the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT.
	(Signed)
				J. P. LINDSAY,
				ELIZABETH COLLINGS,
				L. M. HART,
				ANNIE LAKER, 
				SARAH HOLMES.


R. K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
     Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE 
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address DAVID JAMES. Box 336. Salt Lake City

SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.
AT TEASDEL'S
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
     Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's shoes.
			112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre

For Sale at This Office
BOOKS BY ELIZA R. SNOW.
PRIMARY SPEAKER, Nos. 1 and 3, -		25c. per copy
MUSIC BOOK for Primary Hymn Book, 	40c.  	"
POEMS, by E. R. Snow, Vol. 1   - 			$1.00  	"
	"	Vol. 2 containing steel engraving
		of the author, bound in morocco, 	1.25 	"
CORRESPONDENCE OF PALESTINE
	Tourists with steel engravings of 
	George A. Smith and Lorenzo Snow,
	bound in cloth, $1.25, in morocco. - 	1.50		"

		
	</ss>


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
