VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1887.	NO. 9.


CONSOLING THOUGHTS.

When the day, so fast approaching,
	Of a surety begins,
When the Lord has purified us,
	Having washed away our sins,
What a joyous life we'll enter,
	What a glorious time we'll see,
When the Lord, to comfort Zion,
	Sets her captive daughters free!

Be not weary, oh, ye tried ones!
	Your afflictions soon will cease;
And, instead of persecution,
	Ye shall know the balm of peace.
Ye shall feel how bless'd forever
	Are they who love the Lord;
How good it is to serve Him,
	How great the sure reward.

The race is not forever,
	To those who swiftest run;
Nor by the strongest always,
	Are noblest victories won;
But, to those who through th' struggle,
	Unto the end endure,
Ever faithful, patient, humble,
	Are the promises secure.

Be diligent and watchful,
	And do everything you can
To retain the Holy Spirit,
	To assist redemption's plan.
Then shall ye rise and triumph,
	And sweet your rest shall be,
When the Lord shall comfort Zion,
	And set her captives free.

		LULA.
Sept. 16, 1887.	Lula Green Richards


WE ALL ARE HERE.

The summer day's soft light had died,
	And sweet came evening's hour,
With gentle hush and peep of birds
	Within their leafy bower.
A sense of rest and all well done
	That morning’s hour had planned,
 And smiles of love to answer each
	Of her dear household band.

They drew around the table's light
	With pretty work or book,
Her watchful eye sought each dear face
	With thoughtful, tender look.
But little guessed the happy group
	Within that mother's care,
The thoughts that ran like light and shade—
	Of sympathy and prayer.

Adown the path the father's step.
	Came near and nearer still;
They turned from study and from play
	With eager, sweet good will.
And as they clasped his hand, or climbed
	To win a nearer place,
O, sweet the smiles and true the joy
	Upon each loving face.

And like a sweet, yet sad refrain,
	Through all their present bliss,
The mother’s heart says o'er and o'er
	In its own silences:

"Howe'er may wage the world without
	In revelry or sin,
My dearest ones from all their power
	Are safely gathered in.
No prison wall hides from our clasp,
	Husband and father dear.
Nor dreary absence wrings the heart—
	Bless God, we all are here."


She thought of many homes once bright,
	Ere persecution came.
To stand 'tween God and man and tempt
	The "Saint" in truth or name.
With shattered walls of faith and trust,
	Home-wrecks, how sad and drear,
Before her eyes—she whispered low:
	"Thank God, we all are here!"

The breeze so soft at sunset time
	Had swelled to louder gale,
The sky had darkened and she heard
	The swift descending hail.
Yet smiling listened she, and thought,
	"When storms shall gather near
Around dear Zion, may my loved,
	In safety, all be here."

All here. No empty chair to speak
	In sorrow's deepest tone
Of wanderers from Truth, when called
	In prayer before the throne.
And then her heart leaped up to think
	What joy, if when we hear
The Father's call, she still may say:
	"Thank God, we all are here!"

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Sept. 27, 1887.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S VOICE.

	We have arrived at a time in the history of
our Church when individuals have to stand
upon their own foundation, rely upon their own
faith and knowledge concerning the work of
God.
	Now is the time when every person ought to
have a testimony for him or herself, whether
this work that we are engaged is of God or
not. If we do not have the knowledge that it
is true, it shows very plainly that it is because
we have not deserved to know; we have not
asked or we should have received; we have not
knocked or it would have been opened unto us;
we have not sought or we would have found,
in fulfillment of the promise, "Ask, and it shall
be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you; for every one
that asketh, receiveth, and he that seeketh,
findeth, and to him that knocketh, it shall be
opened." (Matthew, vii, 7).
	Now, my young friends, do you believe that
that passage of Scripture means what it says?
Have you ever tested it? If so, which is it,
true or false? It must be one or the other, and
it is your privilege, your duty to know for
yourself whether that passage is true or not,
for that knowledge is the corner stone in the
foundation of true religion; it is the rock upon
which it is built, even the rock of revelation,
and the "gates of hell shall not prevail against
it."
	If that passage is true, we can ask for de-
sired knowledge or blessings, and if we ask in
faith believing, we shall receive. What a
blessed privilege! Do you not agree with me,
my young friends, that it would be well to "be
on speaking terms with God," and test this
principle? Make Him your friend while you
are young, by heeding the divine injunction,
to "Remember thy Creator in the days of thy
youth." By so doing you will have abundant
evidence that the Gospel of Christ is true.
After having obtained this testimony we must
walk humbly and faithfully, discharging every
duty that is required of us, for our religion is a
practical one, requiring works as well as faith,

[Column 2]

for we show our faith by our works, just as a
tree is known by its fruit.
	The Gospel, or the building up of the king-
dom. give all who desire to be useful an oppor-
tunity to cultivate their talents, extend their
usefulness and be a blessing to mankind, by as-
sisting to build up and promote all the inter-
ests of Zion. No one need feel that there is
nothing for him or her to do in this great Lat-
ter-day work; there is room and work for us
all, old and young, large and small, and all
will receive the reward of their labors; so let
us be diligent and ambitious to perform well
our part, putting our shoulders "to the wheel,"
and bravely lifting our share.
	I have heard some of the elderly people tell,
and have read of others, how they fasted and
prayed for days to receive a knowledge of the
truth of this work, or to receive certain gifts,
how they pleaded with God to grant their peti-
tions, and He did so, giving them the desired
blessing. Do you not think the same cause
would produce the same effect in our day
among the young people? Why is it that
none (to my knowledge) of the young people
who have been born in the Church have any
particular gift, such as many of our parents
possess? Let the youth of Zion answer this
question, and ask themselves if they ever
sought to obtain them as their parents did?
We do not desire these blessings, if we are
not willing to earn them, and how can we ex-
pect to receive something we do not earn. But
it is absolutely necessary for us all to obtain a
testimony that this work, called "Mormonism,"
is true.
		M. E. TEASDALE.


WOMEN IN HISTORY.

ANCIENT.

	Unthinking and uninformed persons are
prone to believe that the condition they see
about them must have existed always, or that
there has never been any great deviation from
the present order of society.
	"Our gardener is immortal," said the rose to
the lily. "So long as I can remember him
there has been no change in him, and the violet,
who died yesterday, told me that he had al-
ways looked just as he does now."
	Thus runs a fable, and the reasoning of the
flowers is the usual reasoning of the crowd.
Because within their observation the present
conditions have existed, therefore they have
always prevailed.
	Thus many persons will maintain that be-
cause during certain centuries, and among
certain nations, women have held a subordinate
place, therefore they have always and every-
where been under similar disabilities. Some
years ago Dr. Howard Bushnell, of Hartford,
wrote an elaborate volume called, "The Reform
Against Nature," in which he endeavored to
prove that woman's natural and eternal posi-
tion was that of an inferior to man; to main-
tain this view either suppressing or per-
verting all the facts of history which would
controvert his position.
	A review of the story of human existence
on this earth may therefore be useful in ex-
ploding some of these erroneous ideas, and
showing that, although by reason of his greater
physical strength, and the disabilities which
maternity imposes upon woman, man has, in
all ages, over a large section of the world,


[Column 1]

﻿forced her to submit to unequal and unjust
laws, yet that there has never been a period in
which the natural equality of woman has not
been in some way acknowledged, and even her
superiority at times admitted.
	If we look for the earliest traces of the ex-
istence of humanity to scientific sources, we
are told that the bones of women and men
have been exhumed from cave sepulchres, where
they have reposed side by side since their
burial, thousands of years ago, when they were
the contemporaries of the cave-bear, the mam-
moth, and other quarternary animals now ex-
tinct; and that, in many cases, the skeletons in-
dicate that there was very little difference in
size between the sexes in those primitive
times.
	It is leaping across a vast geological period
to speak of the mound-builders of this country;
yet as it is possible only approximately to
guess at the age in which they lived and
flourished, and as they were, no doubt in a re-
mote age, the most civilized dwellers on this
continent, we may fairly speok of them as
among the ancient peoples of the world. The
remains that have been discovered in their
tombs and mounds also show that among this
race of small beings the women were about the
same size as the men, and that rank rather
than sex was regarded in the bestowing of funer-
al honors.
	If we turn to the Bible record and read its
dramatic account of the creation of mankind,
we shall find that in the beginning joint do-
minion was given to man and woman (Gen. 1.
26-28) that Eve was the last and crowning
effort of the creative force. Adam evi-
dently, had no idea of superiority over her, for
although the Divine command not to eat of
the tree of knowledge was given to him alone,
when Eve, tempted by the noble ambition tor
wisdom, took of the forbidden fruit and offered
it to him, he uttered no word of objection or
remonstrance, but humbly followed where she
led.
	The presence of Deborah alone gave
victory to the "army of the living God," and
after dispersing the enemies of her people, she
judged Israel for forty years, during which "the
land had peace." Miriam sang the song of
triumph side by side with Moses, and Huldah,
the prophetess, was venerated by kings. The
severities of the Jewish law by which women
were excluded from the priesthood, and even
from active participation in the services, and
condemned to a subordinate position, have no
warrant in the Bible story. The description
of a perfect woman given in Proverbs (xxxi
10-31), portrays her as not only excelling in
all the duties of the wife, the mother, and the
housekeeper, but also as buying and selling
land, dealing with merchants, and discharging
the public responsibilities of a citizen.
	Turning now to the pages of profane history,
in the hoary land where the human story had
its beginning in ancient Egypt, women and
men shared equally the pleasures and the la-
bors of life. In Egyptian mythology Isis and
Osiris, sister and brother, wife and husband,
rode together in the chariots of the Sun, the
woman always named before the man, as if in
honor the higher. The crown descended
often in the female line, and the achievements
of Hatasu, the great queen who brought to
perfection the system of irrigation, are re-
corded in monuments as magnificent as those
which commemorate the deeds of Rameses II.
At a later period, under the Ptolemies, even
where the husband was of the blood royal, the
wife was often the acknowledged sovereign; as
in the case of the famous Cleopatra, whose
brother and spouse had no power except of obe-
dience to her will.
	The sculptures which record the social cus-
toms of the Egyptians depict women and men
together at the council board, in the market

[Column 2]

place, and in festal scenes, showing that
women were active not only in social life, but
in business pursuits also.
	Going further eastward, we find the condi-
tion of women much inferior, and that in Ori-
ental lands, from the dawn of the historic pe-
riod, they were held in a condition but little
above slavery.

		Semiramis, queen
of Assyria, carried her nation to a pitch of
greatness it had never before attained, and the
tremendous achievements of her reign are not
over-stated in the proud inscription which she
herself composed for her own tomb:
	"Nature has given me the body of a woman,
and my actions have made me the equal of
the most valiant of men. I have governed
the Empire of Ninus, which extends over al-
most all Asia; before me, none of the Assyrians
had seen the sea; I have brought to their
knowledge four great seas, so far distant that
no one before this had reached their borders.
I have turned the courses of rivers to water
sterile lands, which I have rendered fertile. I
have constructed fortresses, and pierced roads
through impracticable rocks; I have driven
my war-chariots over paths which the wild
beasts themselves could not climb. And amid
so many toils I have yet found time for my plea-
sures and my friends."
	Even among those nations of the East where
women were most oppressed, the virtues and
the intellect, which have in no age been con-
fined to one sex, rendered some women illus-
trious. On the flowery plains of India, the
Taj mahal still records the graces of Nour-
mahal, whose story belongs indeed to a later
period. It may properly be mentioned here,
in considering the condition of oriental women,
while in that land where female infants are
destroyed as worthless, where girls are sold to
the most hideous slavery, and ladies of the
highest rank are crippled for life to insure their
helplessness—even in China—women have oc-
casionally been distinguished by their great
learning, and to the Empress Sisling-chi, we
are indebted for the invention of silken fabrics,
with all the great industries that have sprung
from her discovery.
	Returning westward, we find that the Greeks
denied all education to their legitimate wives,
and, as a result, women who were not wanton
were willing to join the hetiroe, that they might
gratify a thirst for knowledge, and Aspasia
was the intellectual equal of Pericles and of
Socrates. Plato, the greatest writer of the
ancient world, with a vision that looked be-
yond the narrow field of present limitations
and prejudices, pictured in his "Divine Re-
public" a society in which the absolute equality
of the sexes should be acknowledged, and in
which women, the sharers with their brothers
in physical and mental development, should
be their companions in all advantages, and
their counselors and associates in public mat-
ters.
	Among the Romans women were at first
held in an entirely subordinate position, not al-
lowed to hold property, to have any control
over their children, and restricted in dress and
adornments.
	But as the years went on, there was a con-
stant struggle on the part of the opposite sex
to attain greater liberty. The laws were
gradually modified until from a condition of
slavery to their husbands which followed "the
rape of the Sabines," the women of the Em-
pire had achieved so much independence that
the Historian Maine says:
	"The jurisconsults had evidently at this time
assumed the equality of the sexes as a principle of
the code of equity. The situation of a Roman
woman, whether married or single, became one
bf great personal and property independ-
ence."
	In the history of that mighty empire of the

[Column 3]

ancient world, women played an important
part. Cornelia and Volumni and Hortensia
had wide influence on the destinies of their
day, and Augusta was for a while absolute em-
press in all but the name.
	The ruder nations of Western Europe hon-
ored women from the earliest times, and Tacitus
relates how the German Warriors declared
that "in all great questions we consult our
women." In the coarser virtues of a savage
age women also excelled; on more than one oc-
casion the Roman historians record the bravery
of barbarian heroines, and after the Cimbrian
men were conquered, their wives fought with
so furious a valor that it won a grim tribute of
admiration even from their enemies.
	A review of the condition of women in the
ancient world ought not to close without some
mention of the Amazons, those warrior maidens
who, whether they formed a nation by them-
selves, as was claimed by some writers, or were
only the braver spirits among a people that
acknowledged the supremacy of their sex, cer-
tainly had a real existence. Monuments to
their prowess existed until a recent period,
and medals which are yet preserved in muse-
ums bear testimony to their deeds. The first
Amazon of whom there is any mention was
Hippolyta, who appeared in the mythologic
age and ventured to do battle with the mighty
Hercules himself. During the siege of Troy,
Pentheselea, queen of the Amazons, came with
her warriors to aid the Trojans.
	At a later period, and within the historic
times, Thalestris, "queen of the country of the
Amazons lying beyond the Thermodoon," had
an interview with Alexander the Great, which
is minutely described by Quintus Curtius. It
is not possible, indeed, to dismiss the stories of
the Amazons as wholly fable, since Diodorus,
Justinian, Plutarch, and Grotius, as well as
Quintus Curtius, give elaborate accounts of
the customs and appearance of these warrior
women; and if their testimony on this subject
is rejected, a large part of accepted history
must go with it.
	LILLIE DEVERAUX BLAKE in Dress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Dr. Fanny Dickinson, of Chicago, is a dele-
gate to the Interstate Medical Congress, which
met in Washington last week. She is the first
of her sex ever admitted to such a gathering.
The world moves, and deserving women move
with it.—Philadeldhia Call.
	Mrs. Lucas, of London, Miss Willard, of
Chicago, and Mrs. Hannah Whitall Smith, of
Philadelphia, have issued a circular in which
they ask Christian women everywhere to ob-
serve November 12 and 13 as days of prayer
for a divine blessing upon every form of tem-
perance work in the world.
	Frederick Douglass has returned from an
extended European tour. He said to a re-
porter, "I have been abroad on a pleasure
trip. I visited England, Ireland, Scotland,
France, Italy, Greece and Egypt, and was most
kindly received everywhere. I visited the
French Senate, and was most cordially treated,
nowhere, by a single word, a single look, was
disapproval expressed of my color or the kinks
in my hair." This was his third visit to Eng-
land. He went there forty-one years ago as a
slave. He left the United States for safety, as
there was then a very vigorous effort to enforce
the Fugitive Slave Law, and he feared capture.
In England money was procured to set him
free. "It was here," said Mr. Douglass, "that
forty-one years ago I received the bill of sale
of my own body. My owner agreed to let me
go for $750. The money was given by two
sisters, Ellen and Ann Richardson, living at
Newcastle on-Tyne. They are still living. One
is seventy-nine and the other over eighty years
old.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER.

Two years have rolled round,
	And a part of another,
Since I last saw the face
	Of you, darling mother; 
Now longing to see you,
	The fates still decree
Another six months
	We divided must be.

Although fate has denied me
	One glimpse of your face,
 I have ne'er found the one
	That could fill mother's place.
  In joy or in sorrow,
	In sickness or health,
A mother's dear love
	Is more precious than wealth.

Although for the present
	We divided must be,
My thoughts ever tenderly
	Dwelling on thee,
Will cherish your kind words
	And acts of the past,
And hopefully trust
	In a meeting at last.

May God's choicest blessings
	Forever rest on you,
May health, peace and happiness
	Never go from you;
May sorrow and trouble
	Keep far from your home,
And may you be prospered
	Through all time to come,

When the cold snows of winter
	Have melted and gone,
And the trees and the plants
	Their green robes have put on,
Then my hopes, like the flowers,
	Will spring up anew,
For I trust in the spring
	I'll again meet with you.

	MAY L. MARLER.
Soda Springs, Oct. 21, 1886.


[Column 1]

REMINISCENCES.

	"I stood beside the self-same rippling brook,
		The soft wind whispered to me as of yore,
	And all the landscape wore the conscious look
		Of having known me many years before.
	All things familiar seemed, and yet how strange,
	To think in me how passing great the change."

	Going over old places, that have once been
familiar, awakens in the mind many recollec-
tions that have slept, as it were, in forgetfulness.
Seeing an old friend, one we had known in the
past, but who had almost faded out of memory,
what a train of kindred associations it calls up.
We are all of us, perhaps, more or less suscep-
tible to these impressions and remembrances,
yet they differ, no doubt, in strength and force,
and in degrees of intensity in different indi-
viduals. The present age is one in which the
fashion, one might say the rage, for the antique
prevails; yet more in tangible forms than senti-
ment. The young people of modern society
glory in  old paintings, not always for the
painting itself, but the simple fact that it is
old. Old china, old household furniture, even
the spinning wheels, either for wool or flax, on
which the ancient dames, their ancestresses, did
"a good day's work" of a given number of
skeins, forty rounds to a knot on the reel and
sixteen knots to the skein exact; these old
wheels are bronzed and decorated with rib-
bons. Immense pots and kettles, in which
their great-grandmothers made soap, or cider
apple-sauce, or pumpkin butter, or perhaps the
more delicious maple sugar, these, too, are now
considered ornamental; once they were necessi-
ties in domestic labors.
	While visiting in the Eastern States, not
long ago, I had a very good opportunity to see
and to hear much of this furore for "the old."
Tea parties, where the oldest-fashioned costumes
were worn, trimmed with the oldest laces of

[Column 2]

the most curious patterns; then the style of
table etiquette must correspond; the conversa-
tion must be of the superstitious order—ghosts,
witches, haunted houses and gnomes, being
interwoven, and all colored deep with mystery,
that not even a graduate from Smith College
or Cornell could unravel; nor would they try,
that would take away the charm. Often, when
hearing of these little incidents, I used to
think I should have an inexhaustible stock of
material for future use; but as yet I have used
comparatively little in any way of the fund I
collected. Nor have I digested it, either; it
still remains in its crude form as I gathered it
here a little, and there a little. It is pleasant
and gratifying to re-visit the scenes of one's
childhood, or to go over historic ground, and
to call upon famous or celebrated people; in
any and all of these there is a charm that is
more easily understood than expressed. But
when one associates constantly the ideal and
the real, and sees more than the actual sur-
roundings, it is almost like revelation. I think
I know what it is to be practical, but if there
is no poetry in the running brook, and no idea
conveyed to the mind, except its utility, how
very commonplace it would be. Yet when a
child I was told again and again that the brook
that I loved so much to listen to, that seemed
to me a dear companion, and with which I oc-
casionally conversed, was "not all my fancy
painted it," and compared to the large rivers
it was of little value, it served no particular
purpose, except to beautify the landscape, and
the boys now and then caught a few speckled
trout in its waters, that the dandelions and
long grasses and cowslips were very homely.
Still, notwithstanding all the depreciation of
my playmates, somehow or other I loved this
little winding, rippling brook, and it was to me
an ideal picture in my mind, with all the set-
tings and colorings of an idealistic vision. It
wound through and out of a hemlock grove,
one of the most romantic spots that I have
ever seen. Here in my girlhood I rambled up
and down hour after hour, reveling in dream-
land and drinking in the external beauty and
quietude of this, to me, perfect bower of grace
and beauty.
	Nothing ever brings back to me the peculiar
aroma of the hemlock. I remember it distinct
from all other perfumes; more intensely fragrant
than flowers, and more capable of diffusing its
odor. The sighing of the pines, poetical as it
may seem, and is, for I, too, realize and appre-
ciate the weird and thrilling refrains they sing,
but the hemlock woods, in point of beauty and
exclusive fascination, are still more charming.
I am proud to confess my partiality for New
England hemlock. If I could choose a resting
place, where my friends and loved ones might
come and tenderly linger, remembering how I
loved them, it would be such a place as I knew
in childhood; beneath the sweeping boughs of
fragrant hemlock, where the tangled vines grow
thick and luxuriant, and mosses and ferns,
soft as velvet tapestry, with here and there a
snow-white blossom peeping from under the
mass of dark evergreen, or a few scarlet berries
that cluster together, making a beautiful con-
trast to the dark green, and all the while the
brook sings on and on a ceaseless strain, and
the zephyrs whisper melodiously low and sweet,
or the evening breeze sighs and moans and
groans 'mid the overhanging boughs, or the
night wind whistles shrill and sharp, then
softens to the mournful refrain of a hymn to
the dear ones departed.
	But I digress; I did not mean to speak of
death, or graves, or burial places, but of the
places which have made such perfect pictures
for me in memory's gallery. Wherever I went,
it mattered not who was with me, I was in
reality as much alone in soul-thought as though
no human life was near me. I found not one
whose feelings were like mine. These were not

[Column 3]

sacred places to them, but so common that they
wondered to see me gather up fragments of the
past, and spend so much time in tumble-down
churches and ruins of old houses, but most of
all to traverse woods and fields and by-paths,
closed since the railroads came, or discontinued
for nearer and safer ones. The little red
schoolhouse under the hill, where I taught one
summer, the last one spent in dear New Eng-
land, just to test my capacity for teaching,
since a dollar and a half a week was then con-
sidered a good salary, and many of the young
teachers, "boarded round," and the very fact
of "going through an examination" was a per-
fect terror to a bashful girl of fifteen, but I
made up my mind, and though I trembled like
a frightened bird, "I passed;"—much to my dis-
appointment the school house was gone, and a
small brick one had been built on the other 
side of the country road. They offered to show
it to me; I cared not for it, it was not the picture
I wanted, and I looked with a sort of conde-
scension, as it were, upon the rather self-confi-
dent young teacher who essayed to tell me how
difficult she found it to conform to the habits
of the quiet country life among the hills, and
no wonder I thought it absurd, when it seemed
to me such a restful place, where there was no
whirl or bustle or excitement, and one might
wander "fancy free" over the hills and through
the meadows, day in and day out, aside from
school hours, and no questions asked, no diffi-
cult problems to solve, no newspapers even to
read except the prosy country journal, and you
know beforehand all the jokes, and the only
interest in it would be the regulation poem, by
some old maid, who wrote for mere pastime.
	If the school house was gone, the old low
brown farm house: where I boarded that sum-
mer, was still standing, and when we drove up
the slanting road, I fancied I could see the
kindly, pleasant faces of the farmer and his
good wife, and the sanded floor, and the green
bushes in the fireplace, and the snow-white
linen, and all the plain household furniture, as
it was so many years ago. I insisted upon
stopping, and found all were strangers, but
very genial, and willing to show me over the
old place.
	The farmer and his wife were dead, and all
those I had been associated with there were
gone. I went into the room where I used to
sleep, remembering so well all its former ap-
pearance, the white dimity curtains, tied with
blue ribbon, and the scent of the lilacs and
roses coming thro' the open window, and the
dear old southernwood, and here I had enjoyed
the quiet after school hours; and in the early
morning, when on my way to the school room,
the troops of children, merry, laughing little
girls and boys, would meet me half-way down
the road with fresh flowers, and I was so happy,
and life seemed so bright and joyous, and no
shadow fell across my pathway—now after all
these long years, I soliloquized, where are all
these laughing, merry little folks? Grown to
sober men and women, many dead and forgot-
ten in the places that once knew them. Each
had gone his separate way and filled a place
peculiarly his own. Our ways are scattered,
and our work diversified. We meet occasion-
ally on the great highway with those we knew
in childhood, but even then our duties may lie
far apart.
	I traveled thirty miles from Boston on the
train to find a dear school friend of my girl-
hood days. I had no idea how she would re-
ceive me (as she knew I was a Mormon), but
I risked it for the old love of school days I had
cherished. My heart beat fast as I went up the
steps and rang the bell. I asked for Mrs.
L——; in a moment she came. I rose; she
gave me one searching look, and I said, "I
have come from afar to see you." She put out
both her hands, and each repeated the other's
name, and my dear friend said, "It is like one
risen from the dead!"	AUNT EM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT, office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	October 1, 1887.


OCTOBER, 1887.

The October Conference of this year, 1887, is
likely to be the largest conference for many years,
if not the most numerously attended one ever
known. Thousands of people from different parts
of Utah and adjacent States and Territories are
expected, and every preparation is being made by
merchants and business people to offer induce-
ments to purchasers. The Home Dramatic Com-
pany mean to make the Theatre a pleasant resort
for amusement, and the several committees ap-
pointed to secure accommodations for those who
have not friends in the city, will ensure increased
comfort to those who come from a distance. The
meeting of old friends long separated, is one of
the happy features at conference time. Salt Lake
has missed this the last few years, and if confer-
ence dues come twice a year regularly, its having
been held in other localities of late, makes it an
event now seemingly of more importance than
formerly. There will, no doubt, be a spiritual feast
for all those who attend, and this is a time when
there seems to be a greater need of the Spirit and
power of the Gospel, on account of the varied
difficulties under which this people are at present
laboring.


[Column 1]

MRS. J. W. BARCLAY.

	With deep regret we read recently of the sudden
death, the result of an accident, of Mrs. J. W.
Barclay, a most honorable and interesting woman,
and a good and staunch friend of the Mormon
people. She visited Salt Lake City with her hus
band in 1885, and met many of the people here.
Mr. J. W. Barclay, her husband, is a member of
Parliament from Forfarshire, Scotland, and has
written intelligently and ably on the "Mormon"
question in popular journals, and has also pub-
lished a little work setting forth his views and
opinions touching the subjects considered so un-
popular in the great world outside who look upon
the matter with so much dislike and prejudice.
Mr. Findlay, who accompanied Mr. and Mrs. Bar-
clay here, and spent a short time in this city with
them (guests of John W. Young), said once or
twice to the writer that Mr. Barclay ought not to
receive all the praise and credit of writing the
very excellent articles in defense of this people,
for he knew that Mrs. Barclay had a large share
in the work, and was in part the author. She was
indeed a very large-hearted and noble-minded
woman, and won the esteem and admiration of
those who met her while here on a brief visit.
	She excelled in conversation, and to hear her
converse was a privilege; yet she was not one to
do all the talking, making herself the centre, but
drew others out, and listened with interest and
profound respect even to Mormon women. At
the time of Mrs. Barclay's death she was paying
a visit to a Russian lady at Mussiden, Dordagne,
France, not far from Bordeaux, in company with
her brother, Mr. Phillip Novelli, and her sister,
Mrs. Williams. While out riding on the 21st of

[Column 2]

August, she was thrown from her horse and re-
ceived severe injuries. She fell on her head, and
a blood vessel burst, causing partial paralysis.
She was at once conveyed to the Hospital at
Mussiden, and a London physician was sent for
who attended her till her decease, which took
place on the 3rd of September. She remained
unconscious from the time of the accident. Mr.
Barclay was in this country, and received the
shocking news of his wife's death while in Denver,
Colorado. He immediately started for New York,
and took passage on the steamship Brittanie,
which sailed on the 21st instant for Liverpool."
	"Mrs. Lilian Alice Barclay was the daughter of
the late Mr. A. H. Novelli, merchant of Hyde
Park, London, and was married to Mr. Barclay in
1882."
	Mrs. Barclay was a gentle, refined and accom-
plished lady. She was pleased with her visit to
America, and particularly with her stay in Utah.
She appreciated everything connected with the
settlement and improvements made in these val-
leys, and wondered at the untiring industry and
patient endurance of hardships, women must have
experienced in traveling as they did across the
weary desert plains, and undergoing all the priva-
tions incident to the establishment of a new colony
so far from civilization. She manifested a deep
interest in these matters in her conversation, and
her confidence in the sincerity of the people, and
their devotion to the religion they had embraced
was so real, as to convince all who formed her ac-
quaintance that she was one among a thousand of
the society women of the day. Such women are
like rare jewels in the midst of the circle in which
they move, and their influence a blessing to all
who come within their reach.
	Mrs. Barclay will be missed, and deeply
mourned by husband, relatives and friends, and
can never be forgotten; she was a woman who drew
all hearts towards her,and having once been known
would be distinctly remembered ever afterward.
We most sincerely sympathize with the bereaved
husband and relatives, for we realize what a com-
fort and blessing her companionship must have
been to those around her, and to her husband,
what a heavy loss he has sustained.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have on hand reports from several Stakes
of conferences and meetings, that will appear in
due time. We have Juab, Box Elder, San
Juan and others. We have given rather lengthy
minutes of the sisters’ conference in Salt Lake,
on account of President Eliza R. Snow Smith be-
ing present, and speaking at each meeting, after
her long absence from among the people, because
of her delicate health.
	WE very gratefully acknowledge the gift of
some beautiful and delicate ferns, gathered in the
woods of New Zealand by one of the missionaries,
Bro. Davis, of South Cottonwood. They are a
most charming variety, and one with a fertile im-
agination might weave a pretty sketch of the
natural scenery of the country just from such hand-
some and artistic specimens as those which Sister
Elizabeth Davis brought to this office recently.
Though one may not have the means or the op-
portunity to travel, it is always pleasant to be re-
membered by one’s friends with little tokens from
other countries far away. Many thanks for the re-
membrance.
	WE had the pleasure of attending the sisters’
Conference of Juab Stake in company with Sister
E. S. Taylor. The meetings were held in the
Nephi meeting house, on Friday and Saturday,
the 23rd and 24th of September, and were very en-
joyable and very well attended, great interest
being manifested in each organization. The first
day, Friday, was occupied by the Relief Society
exclusively, and Saturday morning the Primary


Associations held their conference, and the Y. L.
M. I. A. in the afternoon. Our visit there was a
very interesting one, and we found the sisters who
labor there in Societies or Sunday Schools alive to
to their duties and the responsibilities resting upon
them in this important period of time.


A DELIGHTFUL MEETING.

	(The meeting of the sisters, held in the 14th
Ward, on Saturday, September 3rd, was one of
unusual interest. The gathering was large.
	After the opening exercises, President M. I.
Horne gave the time to the sisters to occupy as
they might feel led by the Holy Spirit. Counselor
E. Howard was addressing the congregation from
the stand, when surprise and joy suddenly filled
every heart and lighted up each countenance.
This happy effect was occasioned by the entering,
unannounced, of Zion's venerable, honored and
beloved Priestess and Poetess,Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith. This being her first appearance in public
since her recovery from the very severe illness
which she has lately endured, it was no wonder
that the hearts of her sisters should overflow with
unspeakable pleasure and gratitude at again be-
holding her in their mid t.
	Sister Howard closed her remarks, and by in-
spiration, the leader of the singing started the
favorite hymn,

	"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest
	In the high and glorious place."

Every one sang, and every one wept tears of un-
utterable praise, love and thanksgiving.
	The singing closed, and Sister Eliza arose and
addressed the delighted congregation at some
length in her own clear and distinct voice, and
calm, dignified manner.
	The substance of her remarks were, that Zion
must be purified; that the work of cleansing will
not cease until this end is accomplished. As indi-
viduals we must so live that faith may be in-
creased within us, drawing nearer and nearer to
our God day by day. We must not allow our-
selves to entertain the least hard feeling towards
any one, not even our enemies, and those who
persecute us.
	Following President E. R. Snow Smith's re-
marks, many of the sisters bore testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, the goodness, mercy and
power of God, and also of the healing, prophetic
and marvelously consoling gifts with which the
prophetess Eliza is endowed.
	The meeting was certainly one to be ever
cherished with loving gratitude in the memories of
those who were so favored as to be present.
		L. G. R.)


REUNION OF THE PRATT FAMILY.

	About 200 members, relatives and friends of the
families of the late Apostles Parley P. and Orson
Pratt assembled at the residence of Sister Marion
R. Pratt in the 19th Ward, September 19th, in
honor of the 76th anniversary of the late Apostle
Orson Pratt. There were present representatives
from the families of four brotherse, viz.: Anson,
William D., Parley P. and Orson Pratt. Among
the invited guests were Prest. D. H. Wells, Prest.
A. M. Cannon, Patriarch John Smith, Elders A.
M. Musser, William Willis, Joseph Bull, Sen.,
Bishop Frederick Kesler, Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, Presendia L. Kimball, Zina D. H. Young,
Susan Snively Young, and many others.
	The spacious lawn was surrounded with double
width sheeting, and a large canvas formed an
awning over the seats and platform. The stars
and stripes were waving to the breeze, denoting
liberty and freedom. A large American flag fes-
tooned the platform, upon which sat an organ, and
on each side stood large poplar trees, from which


[Column 1]

hung the life size portraits of the late Parley P.
and Orson, painted by the artist, Lorus Pratt. Ad-
joining the lawn, and under the shade of the grace-
ful poplars, a table, 100 feet long, was spread with
the bounties of life in great profusion, and flowers
decorated the board. The life size likenesses of
Parley P. and Orson, which were arranged at each
end of the table, seemed to be looking on the
scene with satisfactory approbation. The coat of
arms of the Pratt family, nicely executed with the
pen by Valton Pratt, hung conspicuously on the
wall of the house. About 3 p.m. the whole assem-
bly took seats at the table, and after grace to the
Giver of these bountiful blessings by Prest. A.
M. Cannon, regaled themselves with the tempting
viands which were profusely provided for the oc-
casion.  After dinner the company repaired to the
lawn, and were called to order by Elder Milando
Pratt, and the following programme rendered:
	Opening hymn, "Lo, the Gentile chain is
broken." Prayer by Elder Parley P. Pratt. The
following opening address, written by Elder Laron
Pratt, was read by Elder Milando Pratt:
BRETHREN, SISTERS AND FRIENDS:
	I have been called upon to make the opening
address on this interesting occasion. I am very
much pleased to see before me so large a gather-
ing of relatives and friends, and in the name of
the family I bid you a hearty welcome, and hope
peace, joy, thankfulness, and kindly feeling will
characterize this gathering.
	It is very good, very pleasant and profitable to
have such family reunions, wherein we can inter-
change thoughts, greetings and remembrances,
and
RENEW OLD ASSOCIATIONS,
and I hope to see many such gatherings, that a
feeling of love and affection may disseminate
among us, and bring us into still closer relations
of kinship.
	We meet to-day to celebrate an occasion which
should be to us a pleasant memory, and to con-
verse of one whom we all loved and esteemed,
who filled the measure of his creation and has
gone hence to render an account of his doings
here in the flesh, and to continue the good work in
a higher sphere.
	Our father, relative and friend. Orson Pratt,
whose seventy-sixth birthday anniversary we are
celebrating, lived to the alloted age of man, being
a few days over 70 years of age when he died.
He was a man of humble mien, possessed of great
intelligence and many sterling qualities of heart,
the most conspicuous among which was his
staunch integrity and valiant, unflinching defense
of the principles of the Gospel which he advoca-
ted. Fifty years of his life were given to the pro-
mulgation of the principles of truth. Earthly
honors and ambitions were as nothing to him. The
glittering bauble of worldly wealth had no attrac-
tion compared to the beauty and glory of human
salvation. These things never made him swerve
from the path he had chosen. He was a friend to
all humanity in the fullest sense, when the spiritual
condition of mankind was concerned. His con-
stant thought was how to elevate his fellow beings
and fit them for a more exalted plan of usefulness.
His heart was set upon doing the greatest amount
of good to the greatest number, and performing a
grand and glorious work for the salvation of the
sons and daughters of God. From the time he
was a youth of nineteen until he was taken from
our midst,
HE LABORED INCESSANTLY AND HUMBLY
for the welfare of mankind. His mind was wholly
devoted to accomplishing the purposes of God, as
he understood them, and he went forth without
purse or scrip and traveled very extensively on sea
and land, spreading the Gospel of life to many na-
tions of the earth, prophesying of the things that
were coming to pass and of the destruction that
would overtake the wicked and corrupt.

[Column 2]

	Few men have labored so incessantly and earn-
estly for the accomplishment of such a grand and
glorious purpose as the saving of poor fallen hu-
manity. And as his prophetic voice was raised
long and loud in proclaiming the glorious princi-
ples of salvation to the nations of the earth while
he was here in the flesh, so, also, will his works
and teachings, left on record, speak as with the
voice of thunder to those whom he has left behind.
Such a work as he has performed will leave an
indelible impression upon those who have heard
him in life. It needs no special exertion on our
part to keep him in remembrance, for although he
has filled his earthly mission and laid down an
earthly form, hls work among the people of God
will never die, and may it always be kept green
among his family by pleasant gatherings like the
present.
	Again, his great mind was constantly exercised
not only in relation to the salvation of the living,
but also the
SALVATION OF THE DEAD;
those who had died without a knowledge of the
Gospel. So earnestly did he wish to secure to
them all eternal life in the presence of their Hea-
venly Father, that he spent considerable time in
helping to compile a book of records of the Pratt
family and its branches containing over 3000
names. From this record we can now trace our
lineage, with its numerous branches some 300
years. During the latter part of his lifetime he se-
lected most of these names and then called upon
his family and relations in this territory to perform
certain ordinances in the house of the Lord for
these deceased ancestors and friends; thus open-
ing to them their prison doors in the spirit
world.
	But he was far from doing all he intended. He
has left this unfinished work for his sons and
daughters, his relations and connections to con-
tinue until it is accomplished. Should we not be
proud to labor in this noble work which is al-
ready planned out for us? We should wake up to
the necessity of bestirring ourselves in the matter,
and unite as one in such a glorious purpose. We
must remember that life is short, and we were not
born to waste away our time in idle pleasures.
Our Heavenly Father gave us mortal existence
for a little season to see what use we will make of
it, and if we do good we will be worthy of a bet-
life; but if we throw away our opportunities, then
our chance of eternal life will be commensurate
therewith.
	My brothers and sisters, let us be
FAITHFUL, EARNEST AND VALIANT
in the good work; let us be united with love and
affection for one another; treat one another with
consideration and kindness, being charitable in
all things, aud follow the illustrious example set
before us by our father and friend, that our minds
may be filled with the light and intelligence of the
Spirit of God, and when our earthly career is
ended we can look back over our lives with satis-
faction and glorify God therefor.
	May the Spirit of God rest upon you, that your
joys and pleasures may be unbounded this day, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.
	Song, Miss Viola B. Pratt; Recitation, Ortherus
Pratt; Violin Solo, Prof. Willard Weihe; Duet,
Mrs. Ethelmina Pratt and daughter Maud; Reci-
tation, Miss Ruth Eldredge; Song, with guitar
accompaniment, Mrs. Lizzie Felt; Music, har-
monicas and guitar, Valton and Samuel Pratt aad
Walter Musser; Song, Miss Claribell Ridges;
Maori Song, Milson R. Pratt; Quartett, Libbie,
Viola and Mathoni Pratt, and Wm. Bailey. Ap-
propriate and encouraging remarks were made,
and interspersed throughout the programme, by
President D. H. Wells, President A. M. Cannon,
Elders A. M. Musser, William Willis with song,
Alma Pratt, and Sisters E. R. Snow Smith, Zina

[Column 3]

D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kimball and others.
The following Tribute to Orson Pratt was then
read:
A TRIBUTE TO ORSON PRATT.

TO THE COMMITTEE ON INVITATION:

	DEAR BRETHREN:—I hereby acknowledge the
receipt of an invitation to attend the commemora-
tion of the birthday of Orson Pratt (deceased)
by his numerous family and many friends, to take
place on the 19th inst. I very much regret being
unable to be present on that occasion, previous
arrangements having been made to do vicarious
work for the dead of my father's house, in Logan
Temple. It would have gratified me much to have
participated with you in the celebration of the
natal day of so great and good a man as ORSON
PRATT—a man who did honor to the names of
Husband, Father and APOSTLE. He was a pro-
found student of nature. He attained the dazzling
height in the realms of mathematics to which but
few men ascend in any one generation. He was
no less profound in his acquirements of divine
knowledge, as his many works abundantly attest.
His logical acumen, and unusual mental powers,
were brought to bear in lucid reasoning to portray
and establish the faith and doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints in so
masterly a manner, that many thousands of the
disciples of that faith owe their conversion to the
truth to his earnest and extensive labors at home
and abroad. By divine inspiration, he has left an
impress upon this generation that will not be
effaced. He has left behind him choice memories,
that will live in the recollections of a host of
veterans in the great cause of humanity, and a
name and fame  that will survive the loftiest monu-
ments of the world.
	Yours fraternally,
		GEO. G. BYWATER.
Sept. 17, 1887.
	At about sundown the benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Joseph Bull, after which the
lawn was beautifully illuminated with engine head
light lamps set at each end of the lawn, and the
younger members of the various families enjoyed
themselves in the romp and dance. In addition
to the accomodations already mentioned for the
pleasure of the gathering, there were nicely ar-
ranged croquet grounds, swings, two large tents
pitched, etc., etc., throughout the garden and
orchard, and the children, from the babies upward,
enjoyed themselves immensely.
	Before his death, the late Apostle Orson Pratt
was very fastidious about having family reunions,
and one was contemplated and arranged to take
place immediately following the October Confer-
ence, in the year in which he died, and so anxious
was he about its taking place, that he did not want
it deferred should he himself be unable to attend,
or should he pass away. But he died on the 3rd
of October, 1881, and his funeral was held at the
commencement of the conference, therefore the
family did not feel like holding the reunion so soon
after his demise, and it was postponed.
	Following is a brief account of the ancestry of
the illustrious Apostles Parley P. and Orson
Pratt:
	About the year 1632, Leiut. Wm. Pratt and his
reputed brother, John, came from the parish of
Stevenage, in Hertfordshire, England.
	It is supposed they first came to Cambridge,
Mass., in 1632, or previously. They afterwards
settled at Hartford, in 1636. William sold his
land in Hartford about 1645, and removed to Sat-
brook, where he became a large land holder. It
appears, from the records of the State and other
sources, that he was a man of no inconsiderable
note in the colony, as he represented the town of
Saybrook in the General Assembly of the Legisla-
ture some twenty-three sessions, up to the year of
his decease.


The pedigree of Lieut. Wm. Pratt, the settler,
can be traced backward three generations, that is,
to his great-grandfather, Thomas Pratt, of Bal-
dock, in Hertfordshire, who died in Feb. 1539, just
100 years previous to the date when the settlers of
Hartford drew their home lots. The line of de-
scent is as follows:
	Thomas Pratt, of Baldock; Andrew, the son of
Thomas; Rev. William Pratt, the son of Andrew;
Lieut. William Pratt, the first Pratt settler in
America, the son of Rev. William Pratt; Joseph
Pratt, the son of Lieut. William Pratt; William,
the son of Joseph; Christopher, the son of
William; Obadiah, the son of Christopher; Jared,
the son of Obadiah; Anson, William D., Parley
P., Orson and Nelson, the sons of Jared.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake convened on September
2nd, 1887, Prest. Mary John presiding. Con-
ference opened by singing and prayer. Minutes
of the previous conference were read and ap-
proved. Statistical and financial reports from
the various branches in the Society throughout
the county were also read.
	Sister John was thankful and pleased to meet
with us again. "Our reports are good. When
I reflect on the means that we handle, I am sur-
prised; it is considerable, and a great help to
the poor." She desired to be humble and
prayerful and diligent in all things.
	The presidents of the different branches in
the Stake gave verbal reports of their respec-
tive organizations, showing the exertion of the
members, or the faithful few to do all in their
power to help roll on the work of the Lord, as
the time was far spent. Conference adjourned
till 2 p.m. after singing and prayer.
	Conference opened at 2 p.m. with singing
and prayer. Presidents A. O. Smoot, H. H.
Cluff and D. John were present.
	Prest. Cluff occupied some time in speaking
to us, giving good and timely advice in regard
to our children, the youth of Zion, exhorting
mothers to keep a strict guard over their sons
and daughters; said we came here that we
might raise up a pure race; spoke, also, on the
word of wisdom. "Let us try to reform the
rising generation. We as a people to-day are
lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God,"
etc.
	Prest. John had listened with pleasure to
the speakers before him. "We are blessed in
being able to be here to-day. The devil is full
of jealousy, envy and strife, trying to thwart
the plans of the Almighty. If parents do their
duties in example as well as precept in rearing
their families, if the children will not heed the
teaching, then the parents are excusable."
Spoke against sending our children to outside
schools, showing the evil of so doing, etc.
	Bro. Graves spoke a short time in the inter-
ests of the silk; said there had been a new
President and Counselors appointed for Utah
County; hoped the sisters would continue to
raise cocoons.
	Prest. Smoot made a few remarks on the silk
and other subjects, more particularly the youth
of Zion. Said, "I would like to impress upon
you the necessity of throwing influences round
your children to shield and protect them from
evil; see what kind of company they keep; train
your daughters to shun the appearance of evil.
Your children are your glory, and you neglect
them at your peril. Know what company they
are in, and that they are at home at early
hours," etc.
	Prest. Mary John said, "We will now adjourn
our conference for three mouths."

[Column 2]

	Singing, "Praise God, from whom all bless-
ings flow." Benediction by Bishop Loveless.
		C. DANIELS, Sec.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	(The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
September 15th, 1887, Mrs. M. I. Horne pre-
siding. On the stand were Coun. E. S. Taylor,
Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs.
M. W. Snow, Mrs. Anna Ivins, Mrs. R. R.
Grant and presidents of branches.) Conference
opened by singing, "O, happy souls who pray."
Prayer by Mrs. E. Howard. Singing, "Our
God, we raise to Thee," etc. Roll called, 23
presidents and 10 counselors responding.
	Remarks were made by Mrs, Ivins, Prest. of
the Relief Society of St. George Stake: "I en-
joy hearing reports; I feel we are doing a good
work. I have had the help of the Lord and
of some good sisters, without which I could
not have done as well as I have in my labors.
If ever we lived near the Lord, we should now,
more than ever, these are such perilous times.
we never lose anything by attending to our
meetings. It is our duty to learn all we can,"
etc.
	Mrs. Grant, Prest. Relief Society 13th Ward,
this city, said, "I am pleased to meet with you;
it is good for us to meet together. I do regret
my not being able to hear my sisters. I visited
in Franklin, Idaho, attended Sunday School
and Relief Society, and had a very nice time.
I look with pleasure to the time when we can
fully enjoy our religion, which we will as soon
as the Lord sees fit. We should be wise, and
earnestly keep the Mormon motto—"Mind our
own business." We have got to put away all
jealousies and envy, and everything that will
tend to keep us back in our duty. We should
never use the word 'can't'. Let us try to
overcome our timidity; let us feel anxious to
be a benefit and blessing to our sisters and to
each other, and stand up and testify of the
goodness of the Lord to us; then let us en-
courage each other in every good work."
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke on reports very
clearly and intelligently, and said, "I earnestly
pray God to bless the secretaries."
	Coun E. S. Taylor very emphatically re-
peated Mrs. Kimball's prayer, and said, "God
bless the secretaries! for they do want the help
of our Father." She also spoke on reports,
and gave good practical instruction.
	Prest. Horne said, "I am thankful to see so
many of my sisters out to conference. Sister
Eliza had a feeling that the Relief Society
should be pruned and dead branches cut off.
Let the teachers ask the sisters what their feel-
ings are; do they feel to sustain the organiza-
tion? etc. I would like to say that the ordin-
ances of the house of the Lord are only for
those who have been through the Temple and
received the right to such blessings, the faith-
ful and humble. Let us think of these things
and study them. We must not let our sym-
pathy run away with our judgement."
	Conference adjourned till 2 p.m. Singing,
"Praise to the man," etc. Benediction by Mrs.
M. W. Wilcox.
	2 p.m.: Conference again opened by singing,
"Jesus, the giver," etc. Prayer by Mrs. B.
W. Smith. Singing, "we thank Thee, O God,
for a Prophet." Minutes of last conference
read by secretary and accepted.
	(Mrs. Zina D. H. Young said, "I am much
pleased to meet with my sisters. I have, since
I last met with you, visited the Relief Society
of Rexburg, and traveled to many branches in
Idaho, held many good meetings, and comforted
many by administering to them, though it is a
very healthy country.) Many of our young
brethren are taking hold and honoring their
positions as Bishops, while the older brethren
are living to counsel them. We need the good

[Column 3]

and wise to encourage and teach us. Let us
pray for our enemies; and let us pray for the
Congress of the nation, that they may not be
partakers in shedding innocent blood. We
have every confidence in our leaders. We are
becoming purified. Let us show the world
that we have something better than they have
by living righteous lives."
	(Sister E. R. S. Smith said, "I have learned
to acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things; in sickness, in trials, in pain, and in
everything. God rules and over-rules in all
things for the welfare of His people.) Do we
keep in view that God sent us here to hold
high and responsible positions? We? Yes, we!
the daughters of the Most High God. Where
are we going to? Just where we prepare our-
selves to go! He has revealed the three
glories; we can reach the highest if we will.
Are we thinking more of the things if this
world, or are we doing our duty? Are we liv-
ing so as to have revelations for our own bene-
fit and welfare? We can secure the right to an
eternal increase if we are true and faithful and
live as children of God. We cannot compre-
hend all the glory that pertains to this great
work. (Before Zion is redeemed every heart
will be tried to the core; the Lord will have a
tried people; all will have to be one in every-
thing, even to making our own clothing, and
being independent of our enemies. I stand
before you as a witness of God's mercy and
love) I can sympathize with the weakest
Saint; to be able to do Father's will is what I
wish to live for; no matter what our enemies
call us, what does it matter? We have Jesus
for our brother, let us draw near to God, and
put from us everything that is low; let us be
awake; let us overcome all fault-finding; we
will have darkness before we have light; let us
have no fear; fear and faith do not dwell in the
same bosom; let us lay aside fear and have faith
in God our Father; God has a programme and
He will carry it out; let us be thankful all the
time. I will say to my sisters who go out to
visit, set a good example, keep the word of
wisdom. I pray God to bless you all; do His
will; draw near unto Him; there is a glorious
time in store for us if we are fsithful."
	Mrs. Minerva W. Snow said, "I am very
much pleased to meet with you all. I rejoice
to see Sister Eliza with us again; I feel God's 
hand has been over her for good. I have been
absent in Mexico for some time; the climate is
lovely, water good, land good for small settle-
ments. The Saints there feel well, and have
a hope that their reward is sure. I feel that
the Lord will over-rule the colonizing of that
land to the growing and increase of this work.
The people there are suffering some severe hard-
ships; necessaries very, very scarce; some quite
destitute; but still they are cheerful and hope-
ful; nearly all are poor; not many rich are
there; nearly all are exiles. The Relief Society,
Young Ladies and Primaries were organized
while I was there. I saw the ravages of the
late earthquake; and I also saw in the fissures
of the earth springs come up, good water, and
it will prove a blessing to the people; so the
Saints acknowledge the hand of the Lord.
I am thankful that I am one with you in help-
ing to roll on this great work; when we are de-
prived of blessings we learn to appreciate them;
let us not falter, for the hand of God is moving
on the face of the earth; His work will go on;
our brethren are in prison, but those who are
persecuting us will yet be in a prison that they
will have to appeal to a higher court than any
on this earth. I pray God to bless each of us
and to strengthen the weak and feeble."
	Coun. E. S. Taylor said, "We have a very
great treat at this conference; let us put in
practice the teaching we have had; let us walk
in the path of duty, in the straight line of do-
ing right. Any duty He calls on us to per-
form, He will help us in carrying out, if we


[Column 1]

are faithful. I pray God to help us in this our
hour of need, and that we may not have any
more to pass through than we can endure."
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said, "I have been blest in
hearing Sister E. R. S. Smith talk to us. We
have been blest of the Lord all the time; in
our greatest afflictions, when we were prayerful
wa enjoyed ourselves and were happy. Our
trials will seem light if we keep in view the
glory that awaits us. I have no fear but that
this Church is laid on the right foundation."
	Prest. Horne said, "This has been a good
day for the women of Zion. We are living in
the last dispensation; miracles have beep per-
formed in the persecution of this people in this
land; the Lord is blessing us in our holy re-
ligion; we have been cast out as evil, but it
don't hurt us; we know we have the light; we
have a grand prize in view; we are suffering
not near so much as the Savior did when He
was on the earth, and our hopes are to dwell
with Him in eternity; we have to come up
through much tribulation; our salvation is sure
if we are faithful. She also asked the sisters to
try and contribute a small sum each to our
destitute sisters in Mexico.
	Conference adjourned until December. Sing-
ing, "The time is far spent," etc. Benediction
by Mrs. Mary Freeze.
		E. HOWARD, Sec.

Y. L. M. I. A.
	Minutes of the Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Conference, held Sept. 16th, 1887,
Prest. M. A. Freeze presiding. Opened by
singing, "Gladly Meeting." Prayer by Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young. Singing, "Beautiful Zion."
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. The semi-annual reports were also
read.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball addressed the meet-
ing: She thought more of the young ladies
should attend the Associations, since mutual
improvement comes through change of thought.
Referred to marriage, and thought the object
of marriage should be thoroughly understood.
	Mrs. Zina D. H. Young said, "Man is at our
head, and will be for eternity; but we are al-
lotted our work, and should magnify that work
as much as possible." She referred to the
revelation given to Emma Smith, and advised
all to read it.
	Mrs. Lucy Kimball Smith said she had en-
joyed the remarks, and preferred to listen, but
being called upon she felt to do her duty.
Thought we should pray for the officers of the
Church, and uphold them in their action, and
we should never oppose a principle of salva-
tion.
	Mrs. Weiler felt for herself that this is the
work of God; that we should be more faithful
than ever before, and that God will pour out
His Spirit upon us.
	Miss M. E. Cook said she experienced em-
barrassment in addressing the assembly, but
felt highly edified with the proceedings. Re-
ferred to the marriage covenant, and thought
the one solemnized in the Temple of God the
only legitimate one; thought it highly neces-
sary to have a good knowledge of religious
science in preference to other knowledge.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith wished the room were full
at this conference, but supposed schools kept
many away who might otherwise attend. She
had seen harder and more trying times in the
Church than now and thought we should not
complain. Plenty to eat and wear, and com-
fortable homes are great blessings, and were
not enjoyed in some trying times that were past.
"If we embrace the principle of plural mar-
riage, we must not grumble at the trials it
brings, but be cheerful and obedient at all
times."
	Miss Edith Sampson made it a rule to re-
spond when called upon, consequently found
herself in this trying position. "We should

[Column 2]

seek God at all times, for He is a jealous God,
and we should put our trust in Him, no matter
what the trial."
	Mrs. J. C. Howe said she had come to get
her spiritual and bodily strength renewed;
thought nothing so pleasant as to meet with
the young ladies. Hoped God would give us
retentive memories and understanding, that we
may comprehend the Scriptures, both ancient
and modern.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. Singing,
"Did you Think to Pray?" Prayer by Mrs. M.
E. Irvine.
	With a good attendance, the meeting con-
vened at 2 p.m. Singing. Prayer by Mrs.
Buxton. Singing.
	Prest. Mary A. Freeze was the first speaker;
said she felt the Lord is able to make the
weakest strong, and would give her something
to say. "Many think pleasure and rejoicing
the only objects of existence, but we came here
for a purpose, not by accident; we had a pre-
existence, when we rejoiced at the prospect of
coming on the earth, and now we are here we
must do our work well. We need to struggle
for faith in God—our minds are naturally
drawn to the earth, and we must draw our
minds to God." She thought we should prac-
tice what we teach, "so we should place our-
selves in a position to teach every good thing.
We should not fear the punishments inflicted
by men, for what are they compared to the
wrath of God?"
	Coun. M. Y. Dougall said, "Let us live our
religion to-day and every day of our lives, and
influence, if possible, others to live their re-
ligion. When we stand before the judgment
seat of God, there will be no comforting joy
like that of knowing we have kept the com-
mandments of God. Our religion should be
dearer to us than anything else in the world;
thought we should educate ourselves, for the
daughters of Zion bear the souls of men, and
if we want the sons educated, we should edu-
cate the daughters," etc.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp felt to endorse every
word that Mrs. Dougall had said, and felt that
every true woman must acknowledge the right
man as the leader, and that she should obey
him in all things in righteousness. Prayed
that God would bless each one of us with re-
tentive memories, that we may treasure up use-
ful knowledge.
	Prest. E. S. Taylor said that as we have
with us to-day Sister E. R. Snow Smith and
Prest. A. M. Cannon, she would not occupy
the time, but before resuming her seat she
wished emphatically to impress upon the minds
of the presidents that their proper position
is on the stand, and they must take their posi-
tions there without being reminded specially of
it at every meeting. She also gave instructions
in regard to married life.
	Mrs. E. R. Snow Smith said, "It has been a
long time since I met with my young sisters in
this capacity, and I am thankful to God for
this privilege. The instructions we have re-
ceived will do us no good unless we put them
in practice. The Lord has a great work for
the daughters of Zion—to raise up a healthy
generation. A mighty God is with us, if we
adhere to Him. You young ladies want to
cultivate health in your bodies; it is to be la-
mented that so many have inherited weaknesses
of body, but in a measure you can overcome
them, by living the laws of life and health."
Said the young could not expect healthy bodies
when they are out night after night exposed to
the cold. "These may seem small matters, but
a healthy spirit cannot prosper in an unhealthy
body. Early impressions form the character
of the child, and often the mother in little
things sets examples of dishonesty. Establish
firmly the principle of strict honesty, and
have a foundation as high as the heavens and
as broad as eternity. Our God condescends to

[Column 3]

notice small things; we should not desecrate
the Sabbath day; we should be exemplary Lat-
ter-day Saints; we should gain knowledge.
What is education? The training of the hu-
man mind; but if we could not educate in
everything without disloyalty to the Gospel,
I would rather have the love of God than all
the knowledge of seminaries." She urged the
young ladies to learn housekeeping, as good
health and happiness depends on it. She
closed her remarks by saying, "I ask God to
bless you and pour out His Spirit upon you; do
nothing to grieve it away. You can’t consider
too important the mission God has for you; if
we cleave unto God, seek to do His will in all
things, we shall be able to stand whatever the
Lord suffers to come."
	Prest. A. M. Cannon expressed himself as
pleased to attend a young ladies' conference.
Referred to the remarks of previous speakers
as instructive and interesting. He referred
to the relative positions of man and woman,
saying, "Each has an important work to do."
Spoke of a mother’s influence over a child, and
how exemplary her conduct should be. He
related instances of the power of early im-
pressions, and was listened to with great
interest.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, "Give us room, that we
may dwell." Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.
		LIZZIE SMITH, Sec.

WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Weber
Stake was held in the Ogden Tabernacle, Sept.
8th, 1887, Mrs. Jane S. Richards presiding.
On the stand were Prest. L. W. Shurtliff and
Counselor, two or three Bishops and Counsel-
ors, Hattie C. Brown, Emily Shurtliff and
others. Meeting opened by singing, "Now let
us rejoice." Prayer by Bishop Gale. Singing,
"And are we yet alive." Minutes of the pre-
ceding conference read and approved Semi-
annual reports of the various wards throughout
the county were read by the Stake Secretary,
showing the branches of the Relief Society to
be in a flourishing condition.
	Prest. J. S. Richards was weak and ill in
body, but was thankful to God for strength
given her to be present once more with her sis-
ters. Was well pleased with the full reports.
Spoke of the anniversary of the organization
of this Society ten years ago last July, which
she had hoped to celebrate, but could not,
owing to the sickness and death of our beloved
President Taylor. Said she often read the
minutes of that first meeting, when President 
Young was there,and derived encouragement
therefrom. Gave the sisters some kindly ad-
vice concerning their reports. Said she was
pleased to announce to them that Sister E. B.
Wells was present,and knew that all would be
edified in listening to her.
	Sister E. B. Wells was delighted to
be present at conference in this county again.
Spoke of Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith's im-
provement in health; said she had just recent-
ly been out of town, rode in a buggy eighteen
miles, and she hoped yet to be able to attend
conference in this county. She sent her love
to all the sisters. Spoke of the great interest
that was manifested in these organizations of
ours throughout the world, and on the Sand-
wich Islands some of the sisters had walked
thirty-two miles to attend their last R. S Con-
ference there. Felt to bear testimony to the
truth of this great work, and to acknowledge
the hand of God in all things. Thanked the
sisters for the very liberal donations they had
made to the Deseret Hospital, and especially
appreciated the labors of Sister Richards, and
her earnest and untiring efforts in benefitting
that institution.
	Sisters Douglas and Maycock each reported
her society in a prosperous condition, and said


[Column 1]

they were looking forward to the time when
those who are in authority would be permitted
to associate with and visit them. Prayed God
to point out our duties plainly to us, and aid
us by His Holy Spirit to do the same.
	After singing and prayer, meeting adjourned
until 2 p.m.
	2 p.m.: Meeting commenced by singing,
"Come, all ye sons of Zion." Prayer by
Bishop Thomas Wallace. Singing, "Praise to
the man," etc. 
	Coun. H. C. Brown said she was pleased to
see so very many here, and was thankful, too,
for all the blessings of God; felt to rely entirely
upon Him for strength and power to do His
will, and felt to thank the Lord that Prest. J.
S. Richards and Sister Wells and so many of
the sisters throughout the county were able to
attend this conference.
	Coun. Emily Shurtliff was always glad to
meet with her sisters, and felt that we had
brought a goodly portion of the Holy Spirit
with us, and would be blessed in meeting to-
gether to day.
	Sister Almira Raymond never felt more de-
termined and anxious to serve God and keep
His commandments than at the present time.
Prayed God to bless us and keep us humble
and prayerful.
	Sisters Ellis, Taylor and Bingham all felt
well, and rejoiced in the Gospel and their
duties in the Relief Society, and hoped to
prove faithful.
	Sister E. B. Wells, in her remarks, said she
thought it was quite as important for each
member to be energetic and faithful, as it was
for the President and officers to honor their
position, and that we should be very charitable
and pray for each other in our various duties.
Gave an interesting account of a visit she had
made to her old New England home, and
spoke of the necessity of the best of order to
be observed in the meetings of the Saints in
all their organizations, as we can be more suc-
cessful in accomplishing good if we observe
order and method in all our undertakings.
Said her greatest desire was to do good, and
prayed that we all would feel a desire to edu-
cate ourselves and perfect ourselves in the
glorious principles of the Gospel, so that we
can teach our children and the youth of Zion.
Thought we should be more charitable towards
all our brethren and sisters.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff was glad, as he al-
ways was, to meet with the sisters in conference, 
and hoped soon to see Sister Snow Smith in
this county; would move for a special meeting
at any time she was able to come, and would
circulate the news of a meeting throughout the
Stake, and have printed notices distributed, so
that the Tabernacle would be filled to welcome
her.  He then called for a vote from the sis-
ters to sustain Prest. Jane S. Richards in her
office and calling in this Stake of Zion by their
faith and prayers and good works. The vote
was unanimous. Prayed that we might be
humble even as little children, and ever do the
will of God.
	Coun. C. F. Middleton felt proud of the
privilege of associating with so many noble
men and women, and made some very good re-
marks.
	Sister McBride, Prest. of Eden Ward, was
proud of a place in the Church and kingdom
of God, and felt to rejoice now, even as she
did while drawing her HANDCART across the
plains. Gave some excellent instructions on
the word of wisdom, and the great blessings
that would follow the observance of the same.
	Prest. J. S. Richards thanked the sisters
for their attendance to-day; felt desirous of
doing good as long as she lived, and hoped to
have the faith and prayers of all the sisters,
and asked for a vote to sustain her Counselors
equal with herself in the labors pertaining to
the Relief Society. The vote was unanimous.

[Column 2]

	Meeting adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
Benediction by Elder ——
	MATTIE B. CANNON, Stake Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ITEMS FROM NEELEYVILLE.

MRS. EMMELINE B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—We thought perhaps a small
contribution on our part might be acceptable
to our valuable paper.
	Our Relief Society is steadily plodding along,
and as a general thing a good feeling prevails.
We are in a scattered condition, which makes
it very inconvenient. The EXPONENT is a
welcome visitor in our midst. May it ever
prosper in its noble efforts of doing good. We
remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of Christ,
		ELIZABETH DILL, Prest.,
		JULIA THORNTON, Sec.


SILK ASSOCIATION REORGANIZED:

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We wish to give publicity through the
columns of our paper, that at our last Stake
Relief Society Conference, held Sept. 2nd, 
1887, President Smoot set apart Sister M. A.
Till as President of the Silk Association of
this Stake, and Sisters Sarah Saunders and
Sarah Goodman were appointed as her Coun-
selors.
	On account of the demise of the late Presi-
dent, Sister Hester Beebee, the Association has
been inactive. We now resume the business, 
and desire the aid of those previously inter-
ested, and hope those who have not heretofore
lent their endeavors towards the silk industry,
will assist by planting mulberry trees and
raising cocoons.
	Respectfully your sister in the Gospel,
		JANE P. JONES, Sec.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Margaret Dale Owen is writing and speak-
ing in favor of an original dress-reform garb,
which is called the Dale-Owen robe. She is
granddaughter of Robert Owen.
	Fanny Kemble is living in England. A
visit from her is expected at Lenox, Mass.,
and the people there will give her a warm re-
ception. The clock and bell in the tower of
the Congregational Church were a present from
her.
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar will not return from
Europe until October, being detained a month
longer than she anticipated by the serious ill-
ness of her husband. She writes the Journal
from Wiesbaden; Germany, that they hope to
be able to sail with the City of Rome, leaving
Liverpool, Sept. 28. Their summer has,
been spent in traveling through Ireland,
Scotland, England, Wales. Holland, Belgium,
France, Italy, Switzerland, Austria and Ger-
many. Mrs. Gougar will probably spend a
few days in Boston before going West, begin-
ning her platform work November 20, under
the auspices of the Chicago branch of the Red-
path Lyceum Bureau. Besides her lectures
upon woman suffrage and temperance, she will
give her popular lecture upon "Ireland" and
her new one on "Party, Press and People."—
Ex.
	Great satisfaction is felt at the extension of
the municipal suffrage to women in Ireland.
This has been effected by a bill for the reform
of the Municipal Corporation of Belfast,
hitherto elected on a very restricted franchise.
An act has been passed which assimmilates the


conditions of the Municipal Franchise of Bel-
fast to those which prevail in Great Britain,
and this reform includes the extension of the
suffrage to women- The operation of the act
is limited to Belfast, but there can be no doubt
that a similar rule must be extended ere long
to all Irish boroughs. Meantime, it is possible
that without special legislation the ordinary
law, coupled with the Interpretation Act and
the usage in Great Britain, may sustain the
claim of women in Dublin and other districts
to be put upon the municipal register when
next the lists are revised.—Ex.
	The history of the New Zealand Woman's
Franchise Bill is encouraging and instructive.
The encouragement is derived from a compari-
son with the fate of a similar proposal in 1878.
In September of that year, in Committee on an
Electoral Bill, an amendment was moved by
Mr. Wallis to omit the word male from the
clause relating to the qualifcation of electors.
This amendment was rejected by thirty-six
votes against twenty-six, showing a majority,
in 1878, of ten against woman suffrage. This
year the second reading of Sir Julius Vogel's
Bill was carried by a majority of nineteen, an
advance of opinion which would seem to be
decisive on the question. If the suffragists
had accepted a limitation of property, the bill
would have passed; the principle of woman
suffrage would then have been irrevocably es-
tablished in the colony, and its further applica-
tion would have been simply a question of
time.—Ex.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K.THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO., 
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of 
DRY GOODS.
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

