Vol. 16			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1887.		No. 11.


FEAR NOT, ZION.

Fear not, Zion ! countless hosts
	Help thy cause behind the vail;
Zion's friends are uppermost,
	Zion's Founder will not fail;
God His purpose will fullfill,
God is Zion’s refuge still.

Fear not, Zion ! steadfast be;
	Yet a little while endure;
Wouldst thou triumph and be free
	Let thine aims be high and pure,
	"Love of righteousness" must dwell
In the hearts of Israel.

Fear not, Zion!  watch and pray—
	In the midst of cares and strife—
While ye toil, as best ye may,
	For the needs of mortal life-
Watch! "for all who run may read"—
That “the end' is near indeed. 

What if woes beset the just,
	Thick as sparks that upward fly? 
Fear not, Zion! put thy trust
	Aiways in the Lord, Most High;
Saved from many a grief and snare,
All who cast on God their care.

Powers of darkness needs must rage;
	Dire "offenses" try the soul;
Fierce the warfare all must wage,
	Who would reach salvation's goal—
Rough "the way," but who can sum, 
All their bliss who overcome?
	
Fear not, Zion ! onward press,
	 Matchless thy Redeemer’s power;
Weak the foes of righteousness—
	Frail as e’en a fading flower;
Seem they now a mighty host?
‘Tis but human strength they boast.

Fear not, Zion ! Lo, the dawn
	Soon shall bid the shadows flee;
Tribulation leadeth on
	To immortal victory;
Fear not, Zion ! come what will,
God will guide His people still.
				EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


MATER DOLOROSA.
		(MOURNING, MOTHER).

Because of little low-laid heads all crowned
		With golden hair,
Forever more all fair young brows to me
		A halo wear:
I kiss them reverently—alas!  I know
 		The stains I bear.

Because of dear, but close-shut holy eyes
		Of heaven's own blue,
All little, eyes do fill my own with tears,
		Whate’er their hue;
And motherly I gaze their innocent
		Clear depths into.

Because of little pallid lips that once
		My name did call,
No childish voice, in vain appeal, upon
		My ear doth fall.
I count it all my joy their joys to share,
		And sorrows small.	

Because of little dimpled cherished hands,
		Which folded lie,
All little hands henceforth to me do have
		A pleading cry;
   clasp them as they were small wandering birds
		Lured home to fly.


Because of little death-cold feet, for earth's
		Rough roads unmeet,
I'd journey leagues to save from sin or harm
		Such little feet;
And count the lowliest service done for them
		So sacred—sweet!
							MARY K. FIELD.


TRAINING CHILDREN.

	"The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that
winneth souls is wise."—PROVERBS, xii, 30.

	Many reflections pass through my mind with
regard to our youths, who are growing up in
Zion.  I can see that great responsibilities rest
upon parents in the way they train their child-
ren, from the time they can understand a look
or a word. Their mind from birth may be
compared to a sheet of white paper, susceptible
to impressions made, good or evil.
	As I understand, this instruction to be made
upon the child’s mind by the parent, is obedi-
ence to their commands. The imperative “no,”
should be given to its wrong acts, and the ac-
quiescive “yes,” to its right ones.  A frown
should rest upon the countenance of the parent
to show it is in the wrong, and a smile to show
approbation. To you young mothers, let me
say this is a very easy way to govern your
children, without hard words or blows, and
never threaten to punish unless you put that
into execution, and then not in anger, or for
slight cause, but with calm and decisive words,
in reason, showing the wrong. Many a child is
ruined by wrong tuition, and it is high time
that we understand true government, first to
govern ourselves.  Of all people we should
practice that which will result to benificent ends.
The child should be taught not to destroy things.
This evil is a growing-propensity in our child-
ren; teach them the use and value of everything;
when they begin to cry for things that they
should not break to pieces, cross them in their
temper, and show them your superior judgment;
teach them to be clean in their habits, and this
will grow with their growth, and make you a
great deal less trouble.
	And, dear sisters, never counteract the com-
mands of your husbands to your children, but
teach them to obey and respect him and his
word. What I have suggested here can begin
 to be taught to your child before it can walk or
talk.  When they are old enough to work
teach them industrious habits; keep the body
well balanced with the mind; activity brings
health, strength and wealth; teach them order;
this will make labor easy, and lay a foundation
to build the character upon, and their moral
lives. “Train up a child in the way it should
go, and when it is old it will not depart from
it.”
	Let us not form these vague ideas that our
children cannot accomplish what we have done
before them, and have surmounted, barriers
that will fall in their way. While they are
full of life and vigor, labor will strengthen
their more noble instincts and their minds to be
led to fill a life of usefulness, and not idleness,
that leads to crime and misuse of time.  What
a pleasing sensation fills our minds when we
enter a house where there is union and a well
disciplined family, each doing their part, and
all striving to make one another happy.
	Here is where our heaven is to begin, in the
family circle.  If we see this order of things at
our neighbor’s, it only gratifies us for a short

[Column 2]
time if we have it not in our own. Then let
us all strive together to have happy homes,
lovely and obedient children, not be selfish,
teach them to be humane and generous, to take
every burden off the shoulders of the aged and
infirm. And you young boys from ten to four-
teen years of age, four or five get together
every tenth day and clean out all those obnox-
ious burdocks and weeds in the streets, pile
them in the middle of the street and burn
them up. You can pay tithing that way, or
poll tax; and, oh, what a satisfaction it would
be to see our streets made clean and tidy, and
poor widows’ gardens cleaned up, and your
own.
	If we will give attention to all these things,
soon, very soon “Zion will become the joy of
the whole earth,” and the fir tree and the box-
wood will be brought up to beautify the home
of the Saints.
	Please read in Societies.
					MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Oct. 16, 1887.


﻿MORALITY.

	It is generally conceded to those who have
made the subject a study, that the nature of 
man is made of three distinct parts viz.: the 
physical, the intellectual, and the moral.  The 
physical constitutes the material part of man's
nature, and the intellectual is made manifest
through the operations of the mind.  It is to 
the development of these two that much time,
money, and thought are devoted. We hear a 
great deal said, from time to time, about edu-
cation. The little boy is told, that if he will
study hard, while young to gain an education,
the chances are, that, at some future day, he
will be a great man.  He is told that if he
study hard enough he will; probably, fill the
position of president of the United States.
	The little girls, too, are shown no less glit-
tering pictures of future advantages that await
them; on conditions that they are diligent in
acquiring a knowledge of a prescribed number
of branches taught in school.  Not only are 
parents anxious that their little ones grow up 
with all the scholastic advantages which they
can afford to give them, but it is with equal solici-
tude that they watch with a jealous care that
no accident befall them, or anything from in-
fancy up to maturity, happen to them which
is liable to injure or mar, in the least, the
physical growth and perfection of their chil-
dren.  It is, undoubtedly, a source of intense
pleasure for parents to contemplate the beau-
tiful and well formed bodies of their offspring
and to see the fruits of their cultivated minds
made manifest.  This, in a measure rewards
them for all their watchfulness and trouble.
All these provisions for the development of the
rising generation, both mentally and physical-
ly are very good and as they should be, but
there is still another education which should 
receive even more attention than these named
and without which, an education, in the gener-
al sense of the term, often becomes a curse in-
stead of a blessing to its possessor. This educa-
tion consists in the culture and development of
the third nature of man known as morality
and which directs the other two in a right
course.  It is that course of action which con-
science dictates as the right course.  It is
that which would guides one to do his duty to
God, to his fellow beings, to himself, and to
the lower animals.  It is that course of ac-


tion which conscience dictates as right
and which has been expressed in the words, “Do
unto others as you would have them do unto
you.”
	We are all aware that the persons who are
capable of doing the greatest amount of injury
or the darkest crimes, in the home, the village,
the state or the government, have been edu-
cated, so far as intellectual culture is concerned;
but search their private records and they have
been found almost invariably, to be persons of 
little or no moral culture. To neglect this
branch of education of a child, is to sew the
seeds of crime and vice, and to allow them to
take their lessons, in morality, from vicious as-
sociates upon the street corners and disrepu-
table places is equally as bad. As a people, we
believe that our future glory, will, in a great
measure, depend on our children, and it is
sad neglect of a duty when we allow their
moral natures to become corrupted.  It should
be the object of parents and children, to de-
velop in the highest degree, morality; to seek
every means to promote its growth, and en-
deavor just as earnestly for thier education in
this as they do to develop the physical and intel-
lectual nature.  And as the moral is the con-
trolling power over the other two, and that
which is to decide the entire character; it is im-
perative, in order to make a good member of
society, that the utmost care and attention be
given to moral culture, and its most perfect de-
velopment.			L.A. SCHOFIELD.
	Nephi.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿WOMEN OF INDIA.
			MOHAMMEDANS.
	In India all Mohammedan women are “pur-
dah women”—purdah meaning a curtain or
screen. As they say, they “keep purdah."
They live behind the curtain, and their faces
are seen by no man, except the husband, father,
or brothers—not even by the husband’s brothers,
unless they are young boys. They occupy
that portion of the house which is known as
the “zenana”—the place of the women. All
Mohammedan houses are similiarly constructed.
A large building in front, richly furnished, for
the men; behind this an open court with foun-
tains, dwarf palm trees, etc and back of the
court the meagerly furnished zenana.
	The patriarchal system is kept up as with
the Hindoos, the son and grandsons bringing
their wives to their father’s house, and three or
four generations are usually found under one
roof. The women spend all their time in the
zenana. They gossip and smoke, and array
themselves in their fine clothing and jewelry,
and no doubt quarrel a bit sometimes.
	A wife is allowed to dine at her mothers’s
house once a month. If her family is wealthy
she covers herself to the eyes in a large chud-
dah, and is taken to the house in a closed car-
riage, or palanquin. If she is poor, she wraps
the chuddah about her and walks to the house
at midnight, when the streets are empty, re-
turning the next night at the same hour.
	On my first visit to a zenana, early in my
Bombay life, I went with an interpreter, for I
had not learned Hindoostani and could not
understand one word of conversation in that
language. At the first house we found all the
women in one room, and they appeared to be
entertaining a figure which was shrouded in a
white sheet, and was sitting upon a large, white
cushion or mattress, which was spread upon the
floor.
	Upon inquiry, I learned that this ghostly
shrouded figure was a newly made widow, her
husband having died at sea two weeks before.
They said that she must never leave the cushion,
upon the floor for a single moment, until her
period of mourning—four and one-half months
—was past.
[Column 2]
	The windows of the hot room must be kept
tightly closed, and the blinds drawn down, lest
some man in some other house should see her.
If, on the very last day of the four and a half
months, the shadow of a man should fall upon
her, she must commence over again, and sit
four and a half months longer. On this ac-
count, the widow is carefully guarded until her
period of mourning is ended. If the house is
large and she has a mother to wait upon her,
it is easily managed. But if they are poor
and the family all live in one room, as is often
the case, the mourning widow’s lot is a hard
one. They partition off one corner of the
room with matting, make a little pen for her,
and in that close, stuffy place she must stay
four and a half months.
	Formerly Mohammedan girls were married
nearly as young as the Hindoos, but now they
do not marry until they are eleven or twelve
years old.  They say it is too hard to keep
little girl widows sitting so long.
	The women of the house I visited were doing
their utmost to cheer and entertain the widow,
and help her to pass away the time.
	When female relatives came from outside,
there was alwaws a certain amount of wailing
and beating of breasts, but it soon developed
into an afternoon gossip.
	As a rule, a Mussulmani woman is not too
much attached to her husband. She never sees
him until the day of the wedding, and often
does not know whether she is marrying a man
of her own age, or an old gray-headed villain,
who has buried several wives.
	At the next house I visited, I found four
wives of one man—a sheik who had been a
grand man in Zanzibar before coming to Bom-
bav. He first married an Abyssinian woman,
who died while he was at Zanzibar. He saw a
good many English ladies there whom he ad-
mired, and he determined that his second wife
should be white. So he sent to Constantinople
for a Circassian girl. She was pretty, and he
was, so well pleased with her that he soon sent
for another, and again another. At about the
same time the Sultan of Muscat died, leaving a
pretty widow who was also a Circassian or
Georgian, and the old sheik took her for the
fourth wife, making his number complete, as
the koran allows four wives to all faithful fol-
lowers of the prophet, who can support so
many.
	This was a very happy family, the wives
calling themselves sisters. The eldest boy,
when speaking of the family, said: "My father
is well and my four mothers are well.” These
four mothers took very good care of their nine
children, and each seemed equally anxious when
one was ill.
	In the course of time, the old sheik died,
and then it became a serious question how the
widows could keep their mourning period, as
there was no female relative to look after them.
Finally a friend of the family, an Arab lady,
came to the rescue and took them all home to
her own large house, where there was plenty of
room to conceal them. The childrem were al-
lowed to visit them once a day,so their mourn-
ing period was very comfortably passed.
	On a man’s tomb there is a representation of
a pen box, on his wife’s a blank tablet. This
is to show that a woman’s mind is blank, except
as her husband writes upon it. They do grant
a woman a soul, but it is of an inferior kind,
aud there will be a special place prepared for
her, outside her husband’s paradise.
	The dead are buried in a sitting posture, so
that they may the better fight the angel, when
he comes to question them of “the deeds done
in the body." A woman who never marries
is worshipped as a saint, and all her relatives
prostrate themselves before her and kiss her
feet. 
	If a woman is ill, an old "hakim" is con-
sulted. He writes a text from the koran on a
[Column 3]	
slip of paper, and directs her to soak the paper
in a glass of water and take the resulting medi-
cine in divided doses. This she does religiously,
in full confidence that she will be cured.
	In the thirteenth century, a Mohammedan
woman named Rezia ruled all Hindoostan. She
was beautiful and clever, and went about ad-
ministering justice among men, as if she her-
self were, a man. A Turki chief rebelled
against her. There was a severe battle and
Rezia was defeated, but she soon conquered her
conqueror, by marrying him.
	About 1550, Chand Bibi was reigning queen
of Ahmednagar, her husband, the nizam, hav-
ing died before their son was old enough to be
crowned in his stead. During her reign, the
fort of Ahmednagar was besieged and a breach
made in the wall. Chand Bibi led the army in
person, and defended the breach until assistance
came from her brother in Bijapore and Ahmed-
nagar was saved. She wore a vail over her
face, and was known to the troops as “The Lady
of the Vail.” On a high hill near the city,
there stands to-day a beautiful structure known
as “Chand Bibi’s Mahal.” It was built by a
grateful people to perpetuate the memory of a
queen who saved her country. Every one
knows the story of the Emperor Shah Jihan’s
favorite wife, Nur Mahal, or “The Light of
the World,” as she is often called, and the
glorious Taj at Agra, which he built for her
tomb. There it stands on the banks of the
Jumna, as fair and white to-day as when it was
finished, more than two hundred and fifty years
ago. It has been fitly called, “A poem in
marble” Edwin Arnold says of it in “India
Re-visited:” “The crown of the world, the
peerless tomb built for the fair dead body of
Nur Mahal, by her lorn and lover, the Emperor
Shah Jihan In all the world, no queen had
ever such a monument. 		*	*	*	*	
	As you pass beneath the stately portal, in itself
sufficient to commemorate the proudest of
princesses, and as the white cupola of the Taj
rises before the gaze and reveals its beauty,
grace by grace, the mind refuses to criticise
what delights the eye and fills the heart with
reverence for the royal love which could thus
translate itself into alabaster. The moral of
this tomb is written near by: ‘Saith Jesus (on
whom be peace), this world is a bridge; pass
thou over it, but build not upon it. This
world is one hour; give its minutes to thy
prayers; for the rest is unseen.’ ”
	The Begum of Bhopal is the only reigning
Mohammedan woman, at this time. Bhopal is
one of the smaller of the native states, but it
has been so wisely managed that it brings in a
large revenue. During the Sepoy mutiny, the
present begum’s mother ruled the state. She
remained loyal to the British government, and
offered men and money for subduing the re-
bellion.
	The present begum has received two decora-
tions by order of the queen empress—“The
Companion of the Star of India,” and one
other which is conferred upon women only.
			—S. F. Norris in Hearth and Hall.


﻿The Pundita Ramabi has brought out a
second edition of her deeply-interesting book,
“High-Caste Hindu Woman.” Every woman
ought to read it.

	The temperance women of England have
been getting up a jubilee memorial to the
Queen in the shape of a petition that the bar-
rooms be closed on Sunday. It now contains
three-quarters of a million signatures.

	Vittoria Colonna was boried in a small and
obscure church in Rome, now being demolished,
Sant’ Anna dei Falegnami; and the archaeolo-
gists and literary people of that city are anxi-
ously expecting the discovery of her “cypress
wood coffiin, lined with embroidered velvet.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ROMOLA.

			BY A. C. BOWERS

A poet’s vision, clad in the fair guise 
	Of a lily, all in white and gold—
	Hers not the form for passionate arms to fold;
She loves, but loves in such angelic wise
As might some wanderer from the upper skies,
	Who wears, with rosy lips of tenderest curve, 
The starry purity of saintly eyes.
	But if some lofty purpose were to serve,
The fair and delicate figure then would seem
	One who could w lk, with straight unshaken tread.
	The flaming city of the unpardoned dead
(Shown to the Florentine in lurid dream),
	Serene and Scatheleess thro’ the infernal glow—
	Nor touch of fire upon her raiment know.
				—New Orleans Times-Democrat.


TO PATRIARCH L. D. YOUNG. 

		OCTOBER 19TH, 1887. 

Dear Uncle, once again we come, 
	With loving hearts to greet you, 
And find you still in this dear home, 
	Where 'tis so good to meet you. 

How many in the passing year
	Have gone to other places; 
Some honored much, some very dear, 
	Whose names fond memory traces. 

Imprisoned, exiled, sank and died, 
	And thus escaped each jailer,
Our faithful President and guide,
	The valiant, brave John Taylor. 

Your nephew, F. M. Little, too, 
	So kind and so attentive, 
Has also passed to regions new—
	The world held no preventive. 

And, shall I mention your dear boy, 
	Your Brigham?  whose transition
Brings tears, not all of grief, we joy
	That he fulfilled his mission. 

And faithful to each covenant
	He'd made before high heaven,
Was satisfied and well content
	With th' last summons given. 

To-day, last tributes of respeet,
	To one of Zion's numbers—
Long years her leading architect—
	Truman O. Angel slumbers. 

But let me not too long retain
	Your mind on heavy crosses, 
To each of these we count great gain, 
	We only bear the losses. 

And you still live and battle on, 
	With cares both light and weighty, 
While years and years have pass'd and gone, 
	Till yours have numbered eighty. 

How long, how very long to live, 
	And yet you seem so sprightly, 
I often wonder if we give
	Your dates and figures rightly. 

The last of all your mother's sons,
	Her daughters all have left us;
How many, many faithful ones
	Have gone, and thus bereft us!

Why is it that my thoughts will turn
	To those who dwell above us? 
Perhaps because our hearts so yearn
	For those we love—who love us. 

Now, should I pause and try again
	Of sadder things I'm fearful;
And so will lay aside the pen—
	Let's talk of something cheerful. 
								LULA.


﻿D. M. MULOCK CRAIK.

	Mrs. Dinah Maria Mulock Craik who died in
England, on the 13th of October, 1887, was
born at Stoke upon Trent in 1826. Next to
George Eliott as an authoress in modern times
her name must stand. Her books have a very
refined character, taken as a whole. She has
studied human nature and woman's nature
pretty thoroughly. Her books are as popular
in America as in England, but not more so.
Her first work of fiction that attracted atten-
tion, and it is said to be her first attempt at
romance was entitled, “The Ogilvies,” she was
then 23 years of age. The next year she pub-
lished  "Olive;” at the age of 25 “The Head of
the Family;” shortly after “Agatha’s Hus
band.” and from that time on has written vol-
ume after volume. “John Halifax, Gentle-
man” is considered by most people her best
work; though I greatly prefer some others; her
women are generally well drawn and strong
minded,her men weaker and yet, the newspaper
critics, some of them say, she makes women too
submissive and subservient. To me she seems
to have the best ideas of woman, women must
give if they expect to receive, must honor if
they expect to be honored. Miss Mulock’s
“Hannah” is the best argument of the injustice
of the old English law against marriage with
a deceased wife’s sister that I have ever seen
and ought to have as much weight with the
English people and Parliament in the annull-
ing of that law as “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” had
in the United States in abolishing slavery.
	Among literary people Mrs. Craik was a
great favorite though I know very little of her
except from her writings. To me she seems
a woman of wonderful imaginative capacity
in character upright, straight-forward, con-
scientious, appreciative and honest. Well
acquainted with English life in its realty, I
hope some day to see in print a sketch of her
home life written by one who would do her
ample justice—ED.
			THE FUNERAL.
	The funeral of Mrs. Craik, best known as
Miss Mulock, took place in London, Oct. 16th.
Her mortal remains rest in a corner angle of
the Keston churchyard, not far from the grave
of Darwin.
	When the family cortege left the pretty
vine-embowered villa built of red tile, Gothic
style, where she had so long lived with her hus-
band (a partner in Macmillan & Co’s), there
was brilliant sunshine; but when the bier, borne
upon the shoulders of six gentleman friends of
the family, entered the old-fashioned church a
shower of rain gently fell, to be followed by
genial sunshine, when the service—which the
vicar performed—was ended.
	A PICTURESQUE GRAVE.
	The grave presented a picturesque appear-
ance, its sides and bottom being in pure white
chalky soil surrounded with exquisite flowers,
from wreaths sent by order of the Queen and
by Lord Tennyson, and other floral designs
which were sent by relatives and friends, to the
modest gifts of wild flowers from Sunday
School children aud rural neighbors. There
was a large attendance—of some who came to
honor themselves by paying their respect to the
memory of the novelist, poet and essayist, and
of throngs of neighbors who chiefly recognized
in her loss that of a good friend and benevolent
lady whom all the parish had learned to love.
	SOME OF THE MOURNERS.
Among the mourners were the brothers Mac-
millan and their families; John Morley, the
statesman and author; Holman Hunt. R. A.,
and wife; Sir George Grove, the great musical
critic; J. Norman Lockyer, the poet; Henry
Craik, O. B., and family; Frederick Greenwood,
[Column 2]
the journalist, and Mary Anderson, who placed
upon the coffin a basket of exquisite exotics.
I must not forget Mrs. Craik’s adopted daughter,
whose banus were read in church only last
Sunday in the presence of Mrs. Craik. During
a hedge-side walk, years ago, the authoress
found a babe that had been abandoned. Her
innocent smiles and coquettish ways immedi-
ately won the heart of her future mother, who
adopted and reared her.
		HER OWN HYMN.
	The village choir, as the coffin was lowered,
sang a hymn which it was said Miss Mulock
had written, one verse of which I send, as fol-
lows:—
		"Earth to earth and dust to dust.
			Calmly now thy words we say.
		Left behind, we wait in trust 
			For the Resurrection Day.
		Father, in thy gracious keeping
			Leave we now thy servant sleeping."

		HER ILLNESS AND DEATH.
	I learned concerning the circumstances of
her death that Dr Phillips, of Bromley—a
village adjacent to Shortlands, where she lived,
had been in attendance upon Mrs. Craik for
sometime, although her health had not been So
bad as to occasion serious concern to her
friends.
	But there is reason to believe that she her-
self suspected an affection of the heart. About
a quarter to five on Wednesday afternoon last
she was taken suddenly ill in her bedroom and
fell down, to die in a few minutes.
		THE VICAR’S TRIBUTE.
	The vicar, in a brief address, seems to have
well summed up Mrs. Craik’s mental character-
istics when he said:
	“To exquisite charm of style, ingenuity of
plot and original power of humor and pathos
she added a keen insight into the workings of
the human heart aud a quick conception of
high ideas of life and duty.”—Cablegram to the
New York Herald.


Signora Crispi, the wife of the Italian
Minister, is much interested in the education
of her countrywomen. Fully understanding
how useful a friendly intercourse with foreign
ladies would be, she means to establish in Rome
an international Ladies' Club, where women of
all nations can meet. A reading room will be
open and lectures given, and discussions may
be held of the means to establish industrial
schools for women and technical instruction.

	Jennv Lind lives in London in a house
covered with vines and surround-
ed by trees and flowers. She is a confirmed in-
valid, and very rarely sees callers. To all
Americans who knock at her door to pay their
respects, the servant, who has lived with her
for the past thirty years, delivers the message
that "Jenny Lind wishes them to say that she
will never cease to love the American people
with all her heart." She has just had a stroke
of general paralysis, which, however, has left
her brain unimpaired.

	Miss Phebe Couzins has taken the usual oath
of office, and is regularly installed as city mar-
shall of St Louis. She found no difficulty in
obtaining bondsmen for $20,000. The back sal-
ary due her father, of $2,500, has been paid to her.
Miss Couzins has the distinction of being the
first woman to hold this office. It is reported
that Miss Couzins said to President Hayes, just
after his inauguration that it was a pity some
woman lawyer like herself was not the chief
justice who administered the oath to the Presi-
dent. "In that case," gallantly replied "Mr.
Hayes,"I should have kissed, not the book, but
the chief justice."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.

	Published semi-montbly, in Salt Lake City, Utah  Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	Exponent office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1887.


AN ADDRESS FROM PRESIDENT
			WOODRUFF

	IN RELATION TO THE MANTI TEMPLE.

			SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 20th, 1887.
To the Presidents of Stakes, Bishops, and the
	Saints generally:

	It is with profound feelings of gratitude and
thanksgiving to our heavenly Father that we an-
nounce to the Latter-day Saints that the Temple
which is being erected at Manti has been so nearly
completed as to be ready for the upholstering, fur-
niture, carpets, etc., which are necessary to put it
in a state of complete preparation for the sacred
labors to be performed therein. This is the third
building of this character which in the kind pro-
vidence of God the Latter-day Saints have been
permitted to erect and finish in these mountains.
The Temple at Salt Lake City is also progressing
in a satisfactory manner, which, when finished,
will be the fourth Temple that has been constructed
by the Saints under the direction of the Almighty
since we came to these valleys.
	How blessed are the people who have had these
glorious privileges granted unto them! Our hearts
swell with inexpressible feelings of thanksgiving
and joy to our Father in heaven that He has per-
mitted His Saints to build these houses. They
now have opportunities to act as Saviors of their
fellowmen, which but few generations of the
children of men have ever enjoyed. The great
work of the restoration of the dead, which will
occupy the time and thought of future generations,
has now begun, never more to end until the earth
is sanctified and the plan of salvation devised in
the eternal worlds for human redemption is fully
consummated. 	
	Our object in addressing you in this circular is
to present to all the members of the Church the
opportunity of contributing, according to their
means and liberality, something towards the fur-
nishing of the Manti Temple. Heretofore the
contributions for that building have been confined
to the Stakes which are numbered in what is
known as  the Manti Temple District.” Before
the Logan Temple was completed an opportunity
was given to the Saints to contribute towards the
purchasing of its furnishings, furniture, etc. They
gladly responded to the call which was made upon
them. We feel that they will, on the present oc-
casion, appreciate the privilege of contributing in
like manner towards the purchasing of suitable
upholstery, carpetings, etc., for the Manti Temple.
The funds of the Superintendent are exhausted,
and contracts are already made for needed articles,
which have to be met at an early date.
	Contributions will  be taken from twenty five
cents upwards, so that those who are the most
limited in means need not be debarred, while those
who are more wealthy, can have the satisfaction
and pleasure of making donations according to
their ability for the completion of this noble edifice.
We would like the Presidents and Bishops to give

[column 2]
﻿every one an opportunity of doing something in
this direction, and the names of all, with the
amounts contributed, should be carefully taken.
	We would like to see the names of every man
woman and child in the Church recorded in the
Archives of the Temple as having contributed
something towards its erection and completion.
	These funds with the donors’ names, can either
be forwarded to the office of the Presiding Bishop
or the Chief Clerk—Brother James Jack, at the
President’s Office.
	It is important that these collections should be
made and remitted as promptly as possible, as the
need for this means is pressing.
					WlLFORD WOODRUFF,
	In behalf of the Council of the Apostles.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
 
	The case now awaiting the decision of the Su-
preme Court of the Territory as to the right of
the United States’ government to appoint a Re-
ceiver to take charge and dispose of property 
belonging to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, is one which every thoughtful person
must consider an important matter.  It would
seem that either "Mormons" have no rights, or
that this suit must seriously affect other churches 
as regards property investments.  If this law is to 
be applied to other religious denominations, then
Congress will have work on hand for the future—
home-rule work that will require the utmost wisdom
to adjust, and that never can be done amicably
unless the religious bodies become devoid of both
conscience and rights.  To intefere with property 
which has been a free-offering from the people to
the Lord, for the establishing of His work upon
the earth, the building of temples and houses of
worship, where the Latter-day Saints might wor-
ship God according to their own belief, must have
the appearance of a gross injustice, to all who are
able to see and comprehend the circumstances and
conditions.
	The working classes, in all good faith, and with
the zeal that must be apparent to even the ordin-
ary observer, have contributed to this means, that
Congress holds should be put into the hands of a 
receiver appointed by the government for that
purpose.  And why?  Is it unlawful to build tem-
ples,to observe and perform religious rites and cere-
monies in, and in which this people have implicit 
confidence as binding upon them, and necessary 
for their salvation and that of the whole human 
family?  The whole force of the bill passed by
Congress is said to be directed against polygamy
and its practice, and what has that to do with
Church property?  If the men who are so anxious 
to appoint a Receiver, which means to take pos-
session of the property, had worked as diligently
and faithfully as the "Mormons" have to acquire 
it in the midst of a desert, away from the civiliza-
tion of which they boast so much,if they had sub-
dued the land and made it fertile by digging
ditches, canals, and applying every means in their
power to produce such things as would sustain life,
without money to use for such purposes, only hard
work of hand and brain, doubtless they would feel
it was an out and out robbery.
	To take men from their homes, adjudge them
guilty of a crime, because the Law made on pur-
pose has so pronounced it and imprison them, so
that the family is deprived of the regular means
of support, and then fine them heavily as well,
this has been submitted to and borne with the
greatest fortitude, but that is not enough for these
officers of this great and grand government, of 
which the people of the United States have been 
so proud these many years.  O, no, now they want
the means that has been accumulating towards the
work of the Lord, the building of Temples for the
sacred ordinances, and they do it with impunity.
Well may it be said, "Where has freedom, where


has justice fled?” Well may the question be
asked and repeated, “Have the Mormons any
rights at all?” As human beings, as a religious
body of worshiping Christians, as citizens of the
Great Republic, they certainly have; and bye and
by it will be seen, and not long first, either, that
they are as loyal to the government as any other
people, if not more so, and that they honor the
Constitution and the principles of truth and liberty,
and are not afraid or ashamed to defend them.


HE ONLY SLEEPS.

				"God keeps a niche
		In heaven to hold our idols; and albeit
		He brake them to our faces, and denied
		That our close kisses should impair their white.
		I know we shall behold them raised complete,
		The dust swept from their beauty,—glorified."

	The little golden head with its fair brow, the
spiritual, refined face, the tender blue eyes, the
perfect form of our little Percival, these lie in the
tomb, but the sweet spirit that animated the fea-
tures, the intelligence that beamed from his coun-
tenance, the affection that made him so dear, so
tenderly beloved, these are living still in realms of
brightness and glory, where there is no more
sorrow, nor pain, nor death, and all tears are wiped
away.  Dear little Percival, his face all sunshine,
glowing with health, was cut down like a flower;
just when the early frost was nipping the tenderest
buds of the garden, this little fellow, so carefully
nurtured and watched, was cut off by the Reaper
Death almost without warning; taken from his
earthly home, where he was the pride and joy, and
transplanted to a higher and better one.

	"Eye hath not seen it, my gentle boy?
	Ear hath not heard its deep songs of joy;
	Dreams cannot picture a world so fair—
	Sorrow and death cannot enter there;
	Time doth not breathe on its fadeless bloom,
	For beyond the clouds and beyond the tomb,—
				It is there, it is there, my child."

	The death of Percival Woods falls very heavily 
upon his parents, as he was the only remaining
son, and a remarkably bright boy, gifted in many
respects beyond his years, exceptionally affection-
ate and tender-hearted, and the life of the house-
hold, just like a beam of golden sunshine.  He
was taken with sore throat Sunday evening, the
16th, and Monday morning it was pronounced to
be diphtheria; hopes, however, were entertained
of his recovery, but on Thursday membranous
croup set in, and he died at half-past two p.m.
His father, Major W. W. Woods was in Idaho on
business, and though he was telegraphed for as 
soon as danger was apprehended, did not arrive
until Saturday evening, in consequence of the
distance from telegraph lines and railroads.
	Percival Woods was the son of Major W. W.
and Mrs. M. C. Woods, and was born in this city,
April 23rd, 1878, and died October 20th, 1887,
aged nine years, five months and twenty-seven
days. The most intense symyathy was manifested
by the relatives and friends of the family, and 
floral offerings in almost every design were sent
to the house during the interval between the death
and burial.  The remains were taken from the
house shortly after the death, and the casket and
box carefully closed were placed in a vault await-
ing the coming of the father.  The arrival of the
father to his lonely home on Saturday night was
the occasion of a scene of sorrow too deep for any
words to portray.  The mother bore up bravely 
during all this severe strain upon her, though for
months she had been suffering from a spinal affec-
tion, caused by an accident last April.
	The funeral services were held at the City
Cemetery, on Sunday morning, October 23rd, at 
nine o'clock a.m. A large number of relatives
and friends assembled at the graveyard, most of
them remaining in their carriages during the ser-
vices. The coffin, covered with the most exquisite


flowers, was lowered into the new-made grave be-
side the little sister and brother who had gone
before, and the singers, Prof. Beesley, Judge Geo
D. Pyper, Miss Thomas and Miss Beesley, sung
in pathetic voice the beautiful hymn,
			“Rest on the hillside, rest."
	The Rev. Mr. Thrall read from the New Testa-
ment some of the choicest selections of the words
of our Savior, and made brief comments, after
which Bishop Whitney (who is a relative of the
bereaved mother) spoke for a short time. Coun-
selor D. H. Wells dedicated the grave, and offered
a solemn and touching prayer. Mr. Thrall made
brief closing remarks, and earth was heaped upon
the little one laid away, but as the pillow of
flowers which lies at his head says, “He only
sleeps,” for the sorrowing father and mother there
is consolation only in the words of our Savior and
the healing efficacy of time. Those old-fashioned
lines, that are always new to the sorely tried, came
to my mind on that occasion:
	“Come, ye disconsolate, where’er ye languish,
		Come, at the shrine of God fervently kneel;
	Here bring your wounded hearts, here tell your anguish,
		Earth hath no sorrow that heaven cannot heal."

	There is comfort for the bereaved parents when
the precious little ones are taken in their purity
and innocence, and I have no doubt whatever
that there is a shining escort to go with them; they
do not go out into the darkness alone; to them
there is no “dark valley or shadow of death.” The
last words uttered by the little sufferer were,
"Good bye, mama, good bye;” then one final strug-
gle for breath and all was over.
		“Weep not for those whom the vail of the tomb
		In life's happy morning hid from our eyes, 
		Ere sin threw a blight o’er the spirit’s young bloom,
		Or earth had profaned what was born for the skies."
	Little Percival was looking forward with intense
pleasure to the birthday of his Grandpa Wells, on
which occasion each of the grandchildren were to
represent a flower, the whole to form a Bouquet of
Beauty; Percival was to be a Chrysanthemum, and
was reciting his verse the morning before he died,
he had himself composed two lines. But he has
joined a still larger gathering of little ones in the
bright mansions above, where there will be no
more pain, and death and sorrow cannot enter
there forevermore.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


VISIT TO EMERY STAKE.

	Sister Zina D. H. Young left the city by the D.
and R. G. train, October 18th, for the South
and arrived at Price at 6 p.m., where Bishop
Frantzen met her at the depot, and at 7 o'clock the
same evening she attended a meeting of the Re-
lief Society in the ward meeting house.  The
house was well filled.
	The next morning drove over to Huntington,
and journeyed on to Ferron, where a meeting of the 
sisters was held, and the Y. L. M. I. A. was reor-
ganized.
	On the morning of the 20th the conference of 
the Relief Society was held at Ferron, Mrs. Annie
U. Larsen, President of Emery Stake R. S., presid-
ing.  We will probably receive the minutes of the
conference from the Secretary.  On the 21st inst,
at 10 a. m., the Y. L. conference. and at 3 p. m. the
Primary conference was held, and in connection
with it a Fair, the articles mostly made by the
children, though the young ladies had contributed
some.  There were some nice hair flowers,	
crochet-work, perforated card work, pincushions
and other fancy work, besides handsome patch-
work quilts, and several kinds of vegetables raised 
by the little boys.   The next meeting was at
Muddy, at 7 o'clock p.m, and Sisters Young and
Larsen assisted the brethren in reorganizing the 
Relief Society at that place.
	Went to Molen next day, where meeting was
held at one o'clock.   A very full meeting and a


small Primary Fair, with a creditable display from
the children.
	Meeting was held the same evening at Orange-
ville, and Sisters Young and Larsen assisted the
Bishop in reorganizing the Young Ladies’ Asso-
ciation.	
	At Huntington Sister Young spent the 23rd.
Visited the Sabbath School and spoke to the
children. At seven o’clock the same evening the
Relief Society held a meeting. Sister Young
found at Huntington Sister Lucy Morley Allen,
the daughter of Patriarch Isaac Morley; she was
baptized November, 1830, on the same day as
Sister Stanton, who died recently.
	On Monday, the 24th, Sister Young and six of
the sisters who had been visiting the Stake in
company with her, accompanied her as far as
Price. Sister Young was reliably informed that
in all Emery Stake there was but one saloon, and
that was at the railroad station at Price, and yet
there are in that county something over 26,000 in-
habitants.
	During her visit, Sister Young met with a num-
ber of old acquaintances, and some who were sisk
and afflicted, and sought to administer comfort
and consolation. On the 25th, Stster Young
turned her face homeward, bidding good-bye to
the good sisters and people of Emery Co. She
stopped a day or two at Springville, then to
Provo, where she had the pleasure of attending
the lecture of Elder John Nicholson to the youth
of Zion. She speaks highly of the lecture, and
believes it will do great good to the young people.


PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF
	
	DELIVERED THE FOLLOWING DISCOURSE ON
		SUNDAY, OCT. 9, 1885, IN THE TABERNACLE,
		SALT LAKE CITY:

	My brethren and sisters and friends: By way
of introduction I desire to say that I feel to thank
God and all my friends for the blessing I enjoy at
this time—for the privilege, once more, of enter-
ing this Tabernacle and beholding the faces of the
Latter-day Saints. And I feel a good deal as
Mark Antony did when he went to bury Cæsar.
"I come to bury Cæsar," said he, "not to praise
him." I come to see the Latter day Saints, but
not to preach to them. You have plenty of Apos-
tles and Elders to preach the word of the Lord
unto you. But I have long desired to again enter
this Tabernacle of the Lord and see the Latter-
day Saints. It has been some three years, I think,
since I have met with the Saints of God in this
house; and I will tell you how I felt about coming
to Conference. I felt that it would not be doing
our great and mighty nation any harm—a nation of
sixty millions of people—for two or three old men,
seventy-five or eighty years of age, to come into
this Tabernacle and look at the Latter-day Saints
and at the faces of their wives and children. I
do not know that I have a wife or child here. If
I have they will be able to see how old I have
grown since we last met. Some of us have tried
to keep the law to such an extent that we have al-
most forgotten how our wives and children look. I
feel, however, to say, God bless the Marshal and
officers of the government as far as they can exer-
cise mercy, charity and humanity toward the Lat-
ter-day Saints in fulfilling their duty as officers of
the government. I feel thankful to day for this
privilege, and I feel at peace with all mankind. I
am at peace with all my friends. As to my enemies,
I do not know that I have any. If I have, I hope
that we may be at peace upon the principles of
the Gospel of Christ, of righteousness and of
truth.
	Now, with regard to preaching to you, my
brethren and sisters, that is a subject I have
thought very little about. I have preached this
Gospel for some fifty-four years, and have learned
by experience a great while ago that it is no use
			[column 2]
for an Elder in Israel to decide in his mind what
he is going to say to the Saints of God. This is
the way I feel to-day. And I will say this, that
there are times in a man's life when he cannot help
reflecting upon the past. That is my condition to-
day. Since I have entered this Tabernacle, and
looked upon this congregation, my mind has re-
verted to my life from the time I became a mem-
ber of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and this engenders in my bosom some very
solemn reflections. Fifty-four years ago this last
spring I traveled a thousand miles with the
Prophet Joseph, and his brother Hyrum, Brothers
Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, George A.
Smith, and a great many other men—some 205 in
all—mostly Elders in Israel—for the redemption
of our brethren—to assist them in the midst of
persecution. Our Prophets and Patriarchs, many
of them, have passed away. They are on the
other side of the vail. Since we came into these
valleys forty years ago the twenty-fourth of last
July—I drove President Young into this valley in
my carriage, and he was sick at the time—eleven
of the Apostles have passed away. They are in
the spirit world mingling with the Gods, where
they can plead for their brethren. These are re-
flections that rest upon my mind as I occupy this
stand where I have met day after day and year
after year with these noble men. President John
Taylor, who was our last President and Apostle,
has also taken his departure. The last time I was
in this house I met here with him. His work is
finished. He has gone into the spirit world, where
we shall all go very soon. Sometimes, in my re-
flections, I feel somewhat lonesome when I think
these matters over. I feel as if I had lived two
or three generations since the days of Kirtland
and Nauvoo, or since the establishment of this
Church and Kingdom with which I have been as-
sociated for so many years. I realize myself that
I shall not dwell a great while upon the earth. I
do not expect to dwell a great while longer with
the Latter-day Saints. I have lived to the age of
four score years, and when I contemplate the
multitude that has passed away since we entered
these valleys of the mountains, I can only expect
to take my turn with the rest. But I will say this,
I rejoice in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; I rejoice
in the work of God; I rejoice in the principles of
eternal life, light and truth, which have been re-
vealed to the Latter-day Saints.
	We have been called as a people to pass through
a great deal of affliction in our day and time. But
this eternal truth remains on earth and in heaven—
that the God of Israel has set His hand to establish
His Church and Kingdom upon the earth, and to
fulfil the revelations contained within the Holy
Bible, the Old and New Testament, as well as
other records which have been given concerning
the last dispensation and fulness of times.
	We are all of us, brethren and sisters, depend-
dent upon God our Heavenly Father for all our
blessings, both temporal and spiritual. Indeed,
while I contemplate our progress, our advance-
ment, and the signs of the times in which we live,
I feel that we, as Latter-day Saints, should try to
fully realize and comprehend our responsibility
before God, before each other, before the heavens
and before the earth.
	I have for a long time had a desire to mingle
with the Latter-day Saints, and to take part in
their institutions—the Sabbath Schools, the Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, and with the vari-
ous organizations of the Church. But for several
years I have been laboring in other portions of the
country, and have been deprived of the privilege
of meeting with the Saints so far as this portion
of the Territory is concerned.
	I have desired from my youth up to become ac-
quainted with the truth as contained in the Gospel
of Jesus Christ. From my youth up I have had a
desire to live and find the people of God on the
earth. I have lived to see that day. I have live


to see Prophets, Apostles and inspired men. I
have associated with them for many years of my
life. This has been a great pleasure to me, and a 
great satisfaction to my own spirit.
	And I desire to say to the Latter-day Saints,
that we should remember that we are sent here on
a mission; that we have been born in the flesh in
this last dispensation of the fulness of times. We
have been called to labor in the vineyard of the 
Lord, called to preach the Gospel, called to warn
the nations of the earth, and many of them have 
been warned. We have traveled by land and by 
sea; have visited many foreign nations, also al-
most every part of our own nation, and some of
us are drawing our missions to a close.
	I have a desire that the Latter-day Saints should
try to live their religion, and endeaver to do what
is right; that they should have faith in God, and
in the revelations of God, and in the principles
which have been revealed to the Saints for the
salvation of the human family.
	We have a great many organizations in the 
Church and Kingdom of God, and have had al-
most from the beginning. They are so organized
that all men and women, whether young or old,
have a place of usefulness. We should try to im-
prove our time, our talents and our opportunities
while we are here upon the earth. I realize that
this world is not our abiding place. We have an 
evidence of this every day of our lives. We are
called to bury our Prophets, Apostles, Elders,
fathers, mothers, wives and children, all of which
shows us that we have no lease of life. We
should therefore improve our time to-day.
	I have felt to give the Latter-day Saints my
faith and prayers in all their labors and exertions
to build up the kingdom of God. I try to build it
up to the best of my ability in accordance with
the light and truth and knowledge which God has
given me.
	This is the first time that I have endeavored to
speak in public for a good while. I have not been 
laboring in the midst of congregations like this. I
have just passed through a week of sickness,
which laid me prostrate. I feel the effects of it in
my lungs, and in my system, yet I feel all right in
my spirit. I felt as though I desired to look upon
the faces of the Latterday Saints, and hear the 
testimonies of my brethren. They have heard 
my testimony in years past. I have the same testi-
mony to bear to-day. I bear record before God,
angels and men, that the fulness of the everlasting
Gospel has been revealed in these last days through
the Prophets of God; and that Joseph Smith was
raised up by the power of God as a Prophet, Seer
and Revelator.  He laid the foundation of this 
Church and Kingdom in its perfection, as it is at
the present time. He brought forth the record as
contained in the Book of Mormon, in fulfilment of
the predictions of the Prophets of God; also the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants, which contains
those grand and solemn revelations, and those
principles of eternal truth, so precious to the Lat-
ter-day Saints. These things are true. We
should study them; lay them up in our hearts, and
practice them in our lives. This is the kingdom
of God, and the Church of Jesus Christ. The
Lord Almighty has set His hand to carry out the
great programme of the last dispensation and ful-
ness of times. If this had not been true Utah to-
day would have been in all probability a desert as
we found it in 1847, when first we came here. God
has been watching over this people, and will con-
tinue to, so long as we continue to do our duty.
So long as we humble ourselves before the Lord,
so long as we keep His commandments, so long
will the hand of God be over the Latter-day
Saints; Zion will arise; Zion will be clothed upon
by the power of God. The Lord is watching over 
her; the heavens have been watching over this 
people, and have been from the beginning. We
have the blessings of God with us. They are
manifest in our temporal and spiritual affairs.

[Column 2]

As I said in the beginning of my remarks, I
realize that the voices of those we were accus-
tomed to hear in the past are hushed in death. We
shall hear them no more. The rest of us will fol_
low in their train. We shall all pass away in our
turn, and we have a long eternity before us in the
world to come. Those that have passed away 
have closed their work here and are laboring to-
day on the other side of the vail.
	You have had laid before you, during this Con-
ference some things pertaining to the redemption
of our dead, and some things in regard to the 
building of temples. These, brethren and sisters,
are important works. They are works which we
do for others that they cannot do for themselves.
This is what Jesus Christ did when he laid down
His life for our redemption, because we could not
redeem ourselves. We have fathers and mothers
and kindred in the spirit world, and we have a
work to perform in their behalf. As an individual,
I have had great interest in this work of redeem-
ing the dead, and so have my brethren and sisters.
This is a labor we must continue as far as we have 
opportunity. This principle was taught by the
Apostle Paul. He asks, "If the dead rise not at
all, why are they then baptized for the dead?"
This is a work that rests upon the Latter-day
Saints. Do what you can in this respect,
so that when you pass to the other side of the vail
your fathers, mothers, relatives and friends will
bless you for what you have done, and inasmuch
as you have been instruments in the hands of God
in procuring their redemption you will be recog-
nized as Saviors upon Mount Zion in fulfillment of
prophecy.
	I hope that our institutions—those that have
been referred to in our Epistle—the Relief Socie-
ties, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciations, etc., will continue to do good. They
have done a great deal of good, and still have the
power to do more. These institutions belong to
the organizattons of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. The brethren and sisters
should continue to labor in them in behalf of the
rising generation of this people. The Mutual im-
provement Associations are good schools in which
to prepare our young men for the vineyard of 
Christ. So also are the the various quorums of
the Priesthood, and we should all labor to the
best of our ability to fulfill the duties devolving
upon us.
	I feel the effect of my sickness; I feel it upon
my lungs, and do not think it necessary to con-
tinue my remarks. I am glad to see you, and say
God bless you, and I pray that God may pour out
His Spirit upon you, that we may magnify our 
calling, do our duty, keep the commandments of
God, so that when we get through our work we
may be satisfied with our history. I feel to bless
this congregation, as far as I have the right and 
privilege to bless, in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. The Latter-day Saints have been trying 
to do their duty, but there is room for all to im-
prove; let us walk uprightly and labor for the
truth, and for the inspiration of Almighty God to
assist us in all we endeavor to accomplish. I 
pray our Heavenly Father to uphold and sustain
you, to bless you and your fami ies, to bless you
as husbands and wives and children and as Latter-
day Saints, or any other capacity in which we are
called to act. This is my prayer in the name of 
Jesus Christ, amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle on the 13th of September, at 10
o' clock a.m.  After singing, prayer was offered
by Coun. Olivia Widerborg.  Continued by
singing.  Minutes of previous conference read

[column 2]
by the Secretary, Mary E. Snow, and approved.
	Prest. Harriet Snow made a few remarks,
and the statistical and financial reports from 
23 different branches were read by the Secre-
tary.
	Sister Zina D. Young said, "My dear sisters,
you have left your homes and families, and I
suppose you have cared for your little ones,
that they have proper attention in your absence.
You have met together to be strengthened and
comforted.  Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith is bet-
ter, and she sends you her love and blessing.  I
have been pleased to hear your reports.  The
Lord said, ‘Speak often one to another.’ If
those who stay away could know what they
lose, a great many more would strive to attend
meeting.  Keep up gathering wheat.  We are 
doing a great and good work; it is not alone in
looking after the poor, but in saving souls. We 
must take care the Lamanites do not excel us;
you heard their report; they have 58 members
enrolled and 40 average attendance; this speaks
well for them. Our children are our main care;
the allurements are just terrible; when we
slacken in prayer and commence fault-finding,
then we are in danger.  Our souls need food as
well as our bodies.  We are living in an age;
when the fulfilment of prophecy goes on before
our eyes daily.   We need strength and we
receive it by meeting together.  As Bro. Kimball
has predicted, we are living in a testing time; it
is labor continually, but thereby we lay up
treasures in heaven; we may be tried in our
feelings, but I hope not in our faith. The
kindness and love of God in organizing these
associations in everything to me, above all the
wealth of the world.  The Prophet Joseph 
Smith said, ‘This work is not perfect without
these organizations.’ We can work for the liv-
ing, and we can go and work for the dead.
May God bless you and comfort your hearts;
and may He bless us all, that we may continue 
faithful unto the end and receive a fulness of
the reward in store for the faithful, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.”
	Sister Harper said, “I hope, my sisters, we
may all have the spirit of our religion, that we
may withstand the trials and temptations of
the present time.”
	Sisters Hunsaker, Jensen and Watkins each
spoke briefly and encouragingly.  Exercises
closed by singing, and the benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Hubbard.
	Afternoon session:  Opened by singing.
Prayer by Coun. Susannah P. Booth. Singing.
Condensed report read by Mary E Snow.
	Emilia D. Madsen spoke of the evil conse-
quences of supporting our enemies. “We
should patronize and sustain our own brethren
and sisters.”
	Sister Peery said, “I would not sacrifice my
position with my sisters to-day for all the
wealth of the world; we are the salt of the
earth; we need to be on our guard, lest the ad-
versary throw doubt in our hearts.  Let us re-
member our prayers; the first thing I do in the
morning is to ask my Heavenly Father to lead
me through the day.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “It is through 
obedience and humility that we gain the bless-
ings of the Lord. When I hear of any of our
brethren or sisters departing from the truth, I feel
bad; I do not feel that sorrow when one of my 
brethren or sisters die and are clothed in their
robes; we have to be tried to know which side
we belong to.  Joseph Smith said if we prayed
morning and night we should never apostatize.
Mothers need the assistance of the Lord; never
let your children be exposed to danger; it is
for us to stand for the kingdom of God; the plat-
form of faith and obedience is for the mothers
to rest on.” Showed how men who had re-
ceived visions and great testimonies had after 
all apostatized, hence how careful we should
be. “ ‘Fear not, but follow our file leaders,' has
been my motto always; let not fear fill your


[Column 1]
hearts; comfort those who are downcast and
tried; remember, whenever these uprisings
come, these inroads are made, we have made
another step heavenward. Encourage our
Primary and our Young Ladies' Associations;
this is the way we should save souls; let our
children feel that we become better by attend-
ing Relief Society meeting. Try to have the
Juvenile Instructor and WOMAN'S EXPONENT
in your homes. May your hearts always be
willing to do the will of the Lord, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Bro. E. A. Box addressed the assembly
forcibly and by the Spirit of the Lord on
many important subjects and duties.
	Prest. Harriet Snow proposed conference ad-
journ for three months. Singing, "Lord dis-
miss us with Thy blessing." Benediction by
Bishop Harper.

	After 4 o'clock a number of the sisters met
at the residence of Sister Sarah Snow, where,
previously, a number of well filled baskets had
been secreted; we had confided in "Aunt Zina,"
so that she secured our beloved "Aunt Harriet"
at home, and while she stepped outside to care
for her chickens, the parlor became crowded
with happy self invited guests. When "Aunt
Harriet" returned she was greeted with the
singing of "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet," after which Sister Widerborg stepped
forward and said, "We congratulate you,
Aunt Harriet, on your 68th birthday," and all
around came, "May your last days be your
best." "Aunt Harriet" looked the very picture
"surprise." With much merriment the table
was spread, or rather crowded, with a delicious
supper, and a few hours were passed in true
happiness, the object fully realized, to tender
our love and confidence in our President. Sister
Harriet Snow, and which was made doubly en-
joyable by the presence of our beloved Sister,
Zina D. H. Young.
		EMILIA D. MADSEN, Cor. Sec.

		JUAB STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Juab
Stake of Zion was held in the meeting house
at Nephi, on Friday, Sept. 23rd, 1887, Sister
Mary Pitchforth presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Bishop Udall. Con-
tinued with singing by the choir, followed by
the reading of the minutes of the previous
conference by Coun. Amy L. Bigler, the Secre-
tary being necessarily absent, also reading of
reports from the several branches. 
	Prest. Pitchforth made appropriate opening
remarks; rejoiced to see the faces of the sisters
present, but hoped there would be a better
attendance in the afternoon. Exhorted all to
put their trust in God; mentioned that Sisters
E. B. Wells and E. S. Taylor were present 
from Salt Lake City.
	Sister Rebecca Udall reported the Nephi
branch of the Relief Society; said they had a
faithful company of teachers; thanked the
brethren and sisters for the liberal donations,
which supplied the wants of the needy; made
some explanations in regard to the property
reported, and very good remarks in reference
to duties and blessings.
	Coun. Maranda Bryan exhorted the sisters
to faithfulness, and to strive to build each
other up, and not bear malice towards any one.
"We have every encouragement to press for-
ward and do right. I always love to meet
with my sisters and look upon their beautiful
faces they always look beautiful to me, and I
feel it will be a great joy for us to meet with
each other in the next world." Hoped all
would be willing to perform their duties at all
times, and asked God to bless each and every
one. 
	The hymn, "The Kingdom of God," was
sung by Sister Grace, who has long been known
as one of the sweet singers in Israel.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. B. Wells them addressed the meet-
ing upon the subjects of faith and integrity,
and urged upon the sisters the need of study,
and applying the truths learned and the truths
revealed through the servants of God, in their
lives, and that they might comprehend for
themselves and be able to impart and explain
the principles of our faith to our children, to
our families, and to those who visit us from
time to time, that we might show to the world
we were not the degraded, and down-trodden
women we were represented to be by our
enemies. Spoke of the many blessings enjoyed
by the women of Zion as compared with the
women of the world; referred to the interpreta-
tion of the Edmunds Tucker law by the judges
and the courts here, and the cruelty it inflicted
upon men, women and children, in imprison-
ment and the breaking up of sacred homes and
family ties. Gave a brief account of the case
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, as argued before the
Supreme Court of the United States, and her
ideas in reference to the decision given after the
hearing. Alluded to the franchise and the un-
just way in which it had been taken, but be-
lieved we should acknowledge the hand of God
even in this. Exhorted the sisters to let no
opportunity pass where they could be the
means of doing good, and prayed we might
have wisdom to guide us in all things.
	Sister Aggard, President of the Levan branch
of the Relief Society, gave a good report of its
condition, and thought the majority of the sis-
ters there were striving to do their duty and
live their religion. Prayed that we might have
wisdom to guide us to do right at all times.
	Singing, "On the mountain tops appearing,"
etc. Benediction by Bro. Knight.

	Afternoon session; Quite a large congrega-
tion were present, Prest. Pitchforth conducting
the meeting. After the usual exercises of
singing, prayer was offered by Patriarch J. 
G. Bigler. Singing by the choir, followed by
Sister Tyndall, who reported the Mona branch
as in a flourishing condition. Said the Presi-
dent, Sister Eliza Somerville, was not able to
attend the conference.
	Sister E. S. Taylor addressed the meeting.
Said there were many who had had a greater
experience than she had, but thought we all
had a history of our own, and we must work
out our own salvation, and she was glad that
we must, because no one could take our glory
from us. "We must all work, and the place
to work is in our societies. It is natural for
women to be sympathetic and look after the
needy and help those who are not as well situ-
ated as they are. I believe every woman who
is in good standing in the Church should be a
member of the Relief Society, because it is a
place to improve; plead with all who are not
identified with the Society to come and be one
with us, and not put it off." Did not think a
man upon a foreign mission had a greater re-
sponsibility resting upon him than a wife or
mother "God expects us to render unto Him
an account of how we have trained those im-
mortal souls He has entrusted to our care. Are
your children in the Sabbath School, in the
Primary, or where are they, in the day school?
It is a crying shame in Zion, that our children
are sent to schools where they are taught that
our leaders are the great false prophets of the
last days." Spoke at some length upon the
rearing of our children, and allowing them to
drift away from the principles of the Gospel;
said there is much required of us as mothers,
sisters or friends. Spoke against fault-finding
with the authorities, and upon celestial marriage,
that it was a correct principle, and no one
could speak against it and have a good spirit.
Exhorted mothers to be kind to their sons and
daughters, and thereby draw them near to
them. "The times of trial through which we
are passing are not pleasant, but it is what
purifies us and makes us fit for the Master's

[Column 3]
use." Prayed God to bless us and fit us for
every duty.
	Sister Jane Andrews sung most beautifully
the exquisite piece; beginning, "Fading away
like the stars of the morning."
	Sister M. A. Taylor, Prest. of Juab branch
R. S. made some good remarks, and reported
that they had no poor in their ward, but the
sisters were doing all they could for the Tem-
ple. 
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the many duties
devolving upon us in this dispensation, and 
the little time we have to accomplish the great
work; much was required, and we would have
strength given us equal to our day and its bur-
dens. "We should help each other, and con-
sider other's rights as sacred and as much to
be respected as our own. Put away selfishness
and the love of pleasure, and cultivate all the
higher qualities of heart and mind; make our
homes the most attractive places in the world
for our children and those we love. Every
principle of truth, virtue and holiness belongs
to the Gospel. Some homes have been broken
up, and it has caused sorrow and trouble; some
of our sisters are exiles because of having
obeyed a higher law, and they need our sym-
pathy, and a little help from those who are
able to give, and we shall be blest in giving.
There has been very liberal donatians in this
Stake, and it would prove a blessing to the
giver as well as the receiver." Touched upon
other subjects of interest.
	Prest. Pitchforth felt it had been a time of
refreshing to all that had attended the confer-
ence, and expressed the pleasure she felt in
performing her duties and labors for the good 
of her sisters, and in visiting the several
branches she felt blest; spoke of the duties and
responsibilities devolving upon the Relief So-
ciety, and encouraged the sisters in a very
happy manner to press forward in their labors;
advised them to store up grain, and to be kind,
gentle, amiable and polite to all, and seek to
put into practice the good instructions they
had heard during the conference. Asked God
to bless them and give them His Holy Spirit
at all times.
	The officers of the Relief Society of the
Stake were then presented, and sustained unani-
mously; also the officers of the several branches
in the stake.
	Conference was adjourned for three months.
Singing by the choir, a piece to the memory of
President Taylor, entitled, "Gone to His Rest."
Benediction by Elder L. A. Bailey.

P. A. JUAB STAKE.

	The conference of the Primary Associations
of Juab Stake was held in the meeting house
at Nephi, Sept. 24th, 1887, at 10 a.m., Mrs. M. 
A. Cazier presiding, and Coun. Caroline Bigler
present. On the stand were Sisters Mary
Pitchforth, E. B. Wells, E. S. Taylor and
several others; also Patriarch J. G. Bigler and 
other brethren. Meeting opened with singing
by the children, "Don't kill the birds." Prayer
was offered by Patriarch Bigler, then the
children sung, "Joseph Smith's First Prayer."
	A few opening remarks were made by the
President, and the minutes of the previous
conference were read and approved. Reports
from the several Primaries in the Stake were
also read, and the President announced the 
programme for the occasion: Manuscript
paper from the South Ward Nephi, entitled,
