
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1887.		No. 1.


[Column 1]
	SWEET MEMORIES.

Sweet memories come in visions of the night,
And banish sleep and thrill us through and through;
'Til every pulse throbs with a wild delight;
And scenes forgotten burst upon our view.
Strange fancies hold us by a magic power,
Then fade away, as fades the summer flow’r.
	
We clasp the hands of those now long since dead,
And press our lips to theirs in kisses sweet,
Desert’d paths and by-gone places tread,
And hand in hand familiar faces greet.
’Tis but a moment and the vision’s flown,
And we are left bewilder’d and alone.

We gather wild flow’rs in the fragrant vale,—
Meanwhile the bluebird sings and soars away,
The low-voic’d thrush pours forth her plantive tale,
Alone in silent reverie we stray,—
With thoughts subdued, and eyes suffus’d with tears.
As we recall these scenes of other years.

Anon, we wander by a winding brook;
Close to its banks the fern and moss still clings,
And in the self-same shelter’d, shady nook
The lonely whippoorwill disconsolate sings
The long night through, bemoaning his sad fate,
As those who bow'd in sorrow wail and wait.

In the low meadows ’mong the clover bloom,
Where buttercups and daisies nod and sigh,
And the soft air is laden with perfume,
A moment we are lost in ecstacy,
And mingle with companions of our youth
’Til conscious of the sad and bitter truth—

That they are gone, and this a waking dream
Wherein our fancy revels to deceive,
And yet so perfect all these pictures seem,
That we half-doubting gladly would believe,
That youth and love and buoyant hopes were ours,
And chilling frosts ne’er nipp’d life’s fairest flow’rs.

Sweet mem’ries of our busy life a part,
Rifting the clouds, that hang around our way,
Whispering gently to the human heart,
Hope on and bear the burden of to-day
Shrink not from trials that are hard to bear,
For life has many blessins rich and rare.

The lonely wander’r in a foreign land,
Far from his home and those he loves the best,
In memory sees again the household band,
And in the vision feels supremely blest,
And gazes lovingly upon each face.

Thus soothed, unconsciously he sinks to sleep,
Breathing, as ’twere a blessing and a prayer;
That angel sentinels may vigil keep,
Around the home where his fond treasures are;
And in his dreams softly he seems to hear
Voices of absent lov’d ones murmur’ng near.

Thus retrospectively we turn and gaze
Into the regions of the shadowy past,
And analyze our lives through ev’ry phase
Wond’ring what horoscope could have been cast,
When first was usher’d in our hour of birth,
To fill the mission, taken here on earth.

Ah me! what matters it that we inquire
Into the past, or search the paths we’ve trod,
’Tis knowledge of the future we desire,
And grace divine to bear the chast’ning rod,
Acknowledging His hand in good or ill,
While daily toils and duties we fulfill.

Yet,—harder still would be our earthly lot,
If the sweet mem’ries of life’s golden hours,—
The brightest and the best were all forgot,

[Column 2]
The perfume taken from the fairest flowers,
That bloom along our toilsome, weary way,
And scatter fragrance round us day by day.
	EMILE.

	April 5, 1887.
	E. B. Wells.


FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

				LAIE, May 8th 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	DEAR AUNT EM:—You, who love the
flowers of this sad earth so well, will be
interested, I am sure, in knowing something
about the flowers of these islands, and so I
devote this little paper to those sweet eyes
and breaths of the angels—flowers.
	I don't think there are any native
wild flowers, or very few, at least; in my
journey around this island I have seen
none but the high prickly pears, which bear
fruit as well as flower, and the flowers culti-
vated in gardens. You must imagine Laie set
on the top of a gentle hill sloping up from the
sea, exposed to the almost constant trade-winds
which effectually prevent any growth of trees
or flowers, except where sheltered in some way
from its breath. Behind a hill, there will be
banked great masses of green bushes, coarse
ferns and trees. But around our houses, we
are obliged to erect some kind of bulwark to
keep off the salt wind. The house itself is
thus utilized, and at times the grassy turf is
cut out in neat blocks and filled up two or
three feet high, thus forming an excellent 
break for the wind.
	Here in these little spots grow oceans of bloom
and fragrance. The natives dearly love flowers,
and have bought and begged seeds until there
are few homes anywhere on this island without
a tiny flower garden.
	Great geraniums, oleanders, and hundreds 
of rare and exquisitely beautiful exotics
flourish here in rank profusion. Honolulu
might well be named the City of Bloom. For
all the year round its well kept gardens smile
up to the sun with all its own prismatic colors.
San Francisco has gardens, but there every-
thing in the city proper has a dusty weary
look, the very roses hanging their fragrant
heads with the burden of city life. But in
Honolulu, wide and spacious as to gardens,
everything is bright and green, kissed, as the
flowers are almost daily, with the sunny drops
of a gentle shower.
	Here at Laie, the rose and the geranium are
favorites. The bright marigold and the yel-
low lily are used extensively for leis. These
leis or wreaths are often very beautiful. 
Imagine geraniums of the most delicate pink,
or the brightest scarlet pulled apart, and each
separate single flower strung on a string alter-
nating occasionally with the green spiced
leaves of the rose—geranium, the whole form-
ing a necklace of wild beauty.
	All the flowers are used for this purpose, a 
dainty rosebud lei being very beautiful and
effective. These leis are sometimes made of
the little purple everlasting flower, and will
keep indefinitely. My own variegated double
Zuinias, of which I gave the seed to some of
our native sisters is utilized thus. There is
also the white fragrant honeysuckle here. In
short, many bright, glowing beauties of which
I only know the native name. 
	But if you come here, and look for the gar-

[Column 2]
dens here at Laie, you will find them strug-
gling along with grass and perhaps next to
sweet potatoes and kalo.
	The ferns all hide themselves in the dis-
tant gorges, and laugh softly to themselves in
the mountain breezes, that, "that which is
worth having is worth coming after," and, alas,
I can only look afar off and wish!
						HOMESPUN.
Susa Young Gates


PLAIN TALK.
	I am one of the poor, and unlearned, so far
as education is concerned, but I have had quite
an experience in some things. I have the in-
terest of the poor at heart, therefore it is not
altogether out of place for me to pen a few of
my simple thoughts, and I will begin by re-
minding you of the many lessons that have
been taught us now for many years; that of be-
ing self-sustaining, patronizing home manufac-
ture and using economy. Have we heeded this
counsel? Are we better than ten years ago?
No, but worse; we are gliding along as though
we were asleep, living in our ease, not thinking
of what is coming nor what our condition will
be. I think it is time that we were roused
from our slumber and begin to look to our own
interest and practice what we preach by being
self sustaining. Why not be more independ-
ent and manufacture what we need at home
and not depend on Babylon for our supplies.
We are in that like some in keeping the word
of wisdom. Some say when we cannot get
these things which are forbidden then we will
keep the word of wisdom, and when all our
supplies are cut off then we will not patronize
Babylon. I think it is best to prepare for war
in time of peace, for it is too late to pray
when Satan comes. Now it is the poor that I
am interested about, and the Saints of Ari-
zona have never been able to sustain them-
selves yet, and why is it so?  Well, one great
cause is that it takes about half or more that
a man can raise to buy clothes and other nec-
essaries that the family need, then he has to
work some other plan to buy his bread. Well,
can this evil be remedied? I think it can to
some extent. In what way? Well, to be
plain and come to the point at once I would
say let the brethren buy a carding machine
and put it up so that the wool in this country
can be carded and then our sisters can spin
their own knitting yarn and make their cloth-
ing for every day wear and by so doing the
men can save grain enough to bread the family.
“Oh dear,” says one, “do you think for a mo-
ment that we would do such work as that
when we can buy goods so cheap, and have
nothing to do but sew them? Let us live easy
while we can.” I beg leave to differ with
you my Sisters just as long as we buy the
shoddy goods that we do, it will take a woman
all her time to do the sewing for her family
and I can testify to you that I know by ex-
perience that it is more injurious to health to
run a sewing machine than a loom. Some of
our brethren, of course, will object to it and
say their wives and daughters must not do
such work as that. They had rather put out
their means in buying a factory. Well, I am
in favor of a factory as much as any one, and
all other kinds of machinery but would it not
be better in our poverty and cramped con-
dition to begin on a cheaper plan and make
all we can at home, and that would enable us
to lay by something to help get a factory, and


I think it would be greatly to the interest of
the people if our Co-op stores would turn out
some of their Capital in that direction. I am
highly in favor of a factory but I am inter-
ested in the poor for I am one of them and I
believe a carding machine would be of more
advantage to them than a factory, and I 
will give my reasons for thinking so:
	The poor would have but very little capital 
if any in a factory and would have to buy
their clothing just the same as they do now
but if they had the carding machine they then
could make their own cloth with their own
labor and be independent. Now I am not
alone in my ideas on this subject, by many, and
I would say to all that view this subject in
the same light that I do, speak up for your
rights; speak out plain and tell the brethren
that it is a carding machine that we want here
in the Eastern Stake of Arizona. "Oh," says
one, "what nonsense; an old woman's fancy, we
are tired of it; we will get all such things
when we see that we need them."
	Now I told you in the beginning that I was
not educated, but that I had had quite an ex-
perience in some things and now I will tell you
a little about it. I happened to be one of the
unfortunate ones that lived in the south in
time of the rebellion. I had been raised in a city,
knew nothing of farm work but I happened to
be living on a farm when the war broke out,
then we had to make our own support in some
way; we had to go to the fields and work; we
had to card, and spin and weave every inch of
cloth that we wore, even the very thread it 
took to sew it with, we had to make. We
could not buy a yard of cloth, a spool of thread,
a skein of yarn, a bunch of warp, a card of
buttons, or a paper of needles or pins. We
tanned our own leather, made our own shoes,
in fact we made all we eat or wore. Supplies
were all cut off from the south, and we were
overtaken as a thief in the night. But if we
had been as wise as our people are, or profess
to be, we might have been better prepared.
And I would advise all to lay by such things
as they may need when Babylon falls and we 
cannot get them. Such as needles, pins, but-
tons, thimbles, thread, wool cards, bleached
muslin, linen, and all needful things; we had
better prepare such things and not need them,
than to need them and not be able to get them.
But what we need now is a carding machine;
we don't want to be forced to card by hand to
make our own wear.
								M. B.
	Erastus, Apache Co., Arizona.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HENRIETTA’S VOYAGE.
			BY EMILY B. SPENCER.
				THE STORM.

		The vessel tosses here and there,
		For storm the sailors her prepare,
		Bestowing on her every care,
		Heaven, preserve them where they are.

		Through the long night the lightnings flash,
		Kept lighting up the waves,that dash
		Against the shivering ship and masts,
		The shrieking wind in terror passed.

		The thunder pealed its notes of doom,
		And pelting rain gave added gloom;
		The end seemed coming very soon,
		As louder crashed the thunder's boom.

		The creaking ship gave groan for groan,
		The women and the children moan;
		Will ever come another morn?
		Will they outride the beating storm?

		Then prayers arose from Saints on board,
		An Elder then the tempest dared,

[Column Two]

		On deck rebuked by hand and word
		The storm, and God in heaven heard.
		
		The wind seemed gently lulled to sleep,
		Soon waves stopped towering o’er the deep,
		For God His Saints will ever keep,
		Glory ever be to Him!

		The morning came in splendor bright
		The ocean’s jeweled bosom, light
		Bore white capped waves into the sight;
		The ship was swiftly sailing right.

	The storm was past and the Saints felt that
the Lord had indeed stilled the tempest, and
grateful prayers arose to Him, thanking Him
for their preservation.	
	The weary days wore on, the sun rising over
the vast expanse of water, and at evening dip-
ping its golden disk below the waves and dis-
appearing, until monotony seemed to settle
down upon the passengers, but at last the cry
of land brought all on deck, and again the
sight of green verdure, tropical trees, rocks,
rivulets, and houses, gave animation to the
weary throng that gazed upon the varied
scenery.
	At last they came to New Orleans and dis-
embarking, took a last farewell of the noble
ship, that had been home to them for so long,
and taking a steamer for St. Louis, ascended
the mighty Mississippi. On either shore they
beheld the residences of wealthy
planters, the cotton fields, gangs of negroes
working, and the beautiful scenery of the
South.
	Arriving at St. Louis the company landed.
Some had friends who joyfully met them, and
and took them away, but Henrietta felt lonely.
The one she loved had not appeared, and in
all that great city there was no one else to
greet her. What was her surprise and delight
when a pleasant gentleman spoke to her, tell-
ing her he had come for her, that he was the
Bishop of the branch. He took her to the
house of a friend, and left her. Here she was
made welcome and her new found sister friend
treated her as a mother would a daughter, and
won the warmest gratitude of her heart.
	In this kind home she staid until she found
employment in another’s family.
	Time passed on, and preparations
for the overland journey be-
gan, and at last in early spring, she
set her face westward towards Zion the place
of the Saints, in the tops of the mountains.
	Morning after morning the call came for
prayers and breakfast—the harnessing and yok-
ing of the teams, the moving of the long trains,
always westward over the level plains, with the
same mountains in the distance in view, the
walking of the strong and the riding of the
weak, the noon halt, afternoon the repitition of
the morning and the glad sight of water and
feed at night.
	A rest after the weary day’s march. The
bright camp fires were lighted, suppers quickly
got, moon lit dances, cheerful songs, prayers,
and all to bed, except the watchful guard, ever
alert, so that no foe could come unobserved
creeping through the grass like a snake, to
steal the teams or kill the sleeping campers.
	Day after day was nearly the same until the
mountain ranges were reached. Then the
monotony of the scenery was broken. Deep
rivers were crossed, and after many days the
top of the Big Mountain was reached, where
all could look far away and get the first
glimpse of the lovely valley of Salt Lake, and
catch the glistening silver of that distant in-
land sea, Salt Lake with a charm surrounding
it, the entrance into the valley where the very
atmosphere breathed peace, and the lovely in-
fluence of the Spirit of God seemed in the very
atmosphere making the rugged mountains
seem the best of places, the valley, home in-
deed.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.
		RAMAH, Valencia Co., N. M.
						May 25, 1887.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	How many times have I attempted to write
for the EXPONENT and nearly as often failed!
When I remember that the women in every
settlement of the Saints should be represented
in “our paper,” I fear that I am guilty of a
neglect of duty.
	Away up here in the tops of the mountains
is a small settlement of the Saints, isolated
almost, the nearest settlement of our people
being St. Johns distant 80 miles, but we are
striving to build up the country and make
homes worthy of saints. Though so far away,
we feel a lively interest in all passing events,
and eagerly peruse the papers that we may
be familiar with the signs of the times. We
sympathise with you and the Saints in Utah in
the loss of the suffrage through the schemes and
plots of wicked, truth-hating men, but so sure
as “truth though crushed will rise again” and
shine with brighter lustre, so sure will this
cherished right be restored to you in Utah and
given to other noble women who are
so bravely struggling for it, while
those who to-day are so vindictively
fighting the progress of righteousness
will sink into oblivion, and after ages (not long
after either) will remember them only with
contempt. We are to be a tried people even
gold seven times purified in the furnace; if
God sees fit to try us through wicked men it
matters not to us. “It must needs be that of-
fenses come, but woe to them by whom they
come!”
	Sisters,lift up your heads and rejoice. Truth
will triumph, we know we have that; we know
our religion is pure, every principle of it—the
whole Christian world to the contrary notwith-
standing—And nothing that we be-
lieve in but will tend to exalt
us in the scale of being, and take us back to
the presence of our Father. We are weak
human beings liable to err, but this is not the
fault of our religion, neither is our religion
answerable for the wickedness of some of its
professors. The Gospel net gathers of all
kinds, the wheat and the tares will grow to-
gether. The time of separation is nigh, even
at our doors. Let us be as the wise virgins, al-
ways ready with our lamps trimmed and burn-
ing, full of oil, that we may not be blown off
with the chaff.
	It is only through prayer that we can have
the Holy Spirit to lead us safely through
temptation. It is as necessary for the mothers
to be in possession of the spirit as the fathers.
Whether we realize it or not, it is we who have
the molding of our children’s future, whether
it be one of usefulness, or otherwise in the
Kingdom of God.
	It is we who have them under our almost
entire control, during their early years, when
the mind is susceptible of the most lasting im-
pressions. The wise man said, “Train a child
in the way he should go, when he is old he will
not depart from it.” How necessary then we
should watch their every act, yea, even mold
their every thought in the ways of the Lord.
	'Tis an old theme this, yet never enough is
said upon it. How weak my efforts to en-
courage the struggling mother! Had I the
tongue of an angel it seems to me no more
nobler theme could employ it than the train-
ing of our precious little ones.
					PHEBE A. MCNEIL.


A meeting in commemoration of Wendell
Phillips was held in Faneuil Hall Monday
evening, May 30.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THERE IS SWEET PEACE IN PRAYER.

	O God! the Eternal Father,
		In Thee we put our trust,
	We look to Thee for comfort,
		And we know that Thou art just.

			CHORUS.
		For there is sweet peace in prayer,
			For we know Thou art near;
		There is sweet peace,
			There is sweet peace in prayer.
 
	Thou knowest our hearts, dear Father,
		We know in whom we trust,
	For Thou art kind and merciful,
		And we know that Thou art just.
										Cho.
	We are Thy children, Father,
		And Thou hast sent	us here;
Then whisper words of comfort
		When our trials are severe.
										Cho.
	We are Thy daughters, Father,
And as mothers, too, and wives,
	We desire to prove faithful
And gain eternal lives.
										Cho.
									A. HULINGS.


SATURDAY MORNING.

The children coming in at "Mamma’s” call,
	Into	the bath, in turn, each takes a plunge;
Aud there, from curly crowns to toe-tips small,
	Are gently cleansed with water, soap and sponge.

While thus the mother works, she softly prays,
	That God will sanctify their souls within;
And keep her darlings from forbidden ways,
	In purity and virtue, free from sin.

Then carefully with towels they are dried,
	In garments clean each infant form she'll dress,
Still praying, "Father, keep them from false pride,
	And clothe them with Thy truth and righteousness."

Not without interruption does she pray,
	Though th’ heart prayer is fervent, pure and strong,
Yet other things her lips must ope to say,
	Asking and answering questions all along.

Whether the water is too warm or cool,
	Into which one too hastily has jumped;
Chiding the breaking of the Golden Rule,
	Kissing away the hurt when heads are bumped.

Thus broken oft, the prayer is sent above,
	Full of deep meaning, though the words are few,
But prayers so freighted with sweet faith and love, 
	Must be accepted, I believe, don’t you?

			L.G. Richards				 LULA.


THOUGHTS ON MY WEDDING DAY.

DEAR EXPONENT:                                                                                                                                         
	You will not regard me as an egotist, or feel
that I am trying to place myself before the
public in a conspicuous manner, for I do not
desire to give my humble thoughts to the pub-
lic only as duty prompts me to, that I may
be benefited and, perchance, encourage some
weary one in life’s great struggling throng.
	To-day so many things of the past have come
up in my memory, and with her I have loved
over again every day of the years now fled,
and I have been asking how well I have per-
formed my duties as a wife and mother in
Zion. Alas! how unsatisfactory the answers
are for self condemnation, meets me at every
turn. One third of my short life I have been
a wife, and all this time I have desired to be a
faithful, loving one, and yet oft have I placed
thorns in the paths of the dear ones where
roses might have grown; given frowns where

[column 2]
only smiles should have been seen, and instead
of catching all the golden sunbeams as they
passed, I have been so busy sighing over the
little annoyances in my way, that many of the
most beautiful ones have gone unnoticed.
	The sweet babes, given of heaven, have been
such a comfort, yet I cannot forget that at
times I have not appreciated them enough to
always be as patient as I should have been, and
by a little bad example have, I fear, lost many
a beautiful precept. I well remember one night
being sorely tried with my young daughter. I
said, “Did you say your prayers to-day?” “Yes.
mamma,” she answered, “and I asked the Lord
to make me a good girl” I told her I was
afraid she did not want to be good and try to
please me, else she could not make so many
failures. Then came the sweet childish voice
that went right to my heart and smote it with
bitterness. “But mamma, I do try to be good,
and I don’t believe the Lord helps us to do
right, for when I ask Him to help me, then He
lets me do something naughty again.” I kissed
the dear child, and did my best to undo what I
had unwillingly done—destroying my child’s
confidence in her Creator. I bade her still
trust in Him and in time the victory would be
gained, and ere I closed my eyes I knelt in deep
humility and implored that same Almighty to
forgive my weakness iu expecting my child to
render greater homage to me than I did to Him,
for it came to me with great plainness that my
daughter did better as a child than I did as a
representative of intelligent womanhood; for do
I not daily ask for strength and wisdom? and
I know more than I deserve is given, and I
alone am to blame if this heaven-born light is
rejected through my yielding to frail mor-
tality.
	These things, and many more, come to my
mind, aye, more than I could find language to
express, and I felt I would like to see all my
dear sisters in Israel, and then we would take
our dear companions by the hands and together
beseech the divine blessing on our future years,
that the powers of evil may be bound with a
stronger chain than it ever has been in our
homes; that peace and union may reign su-
preme in every breast, and the love of right-
eousness may hold sway in the hearts of our
sons and daughters. Is not the mother the
guiding star of the daughter, and can the son
be censured if he follows in the footsteps of
his father? God help our children and have
mercy on us as parents if we place not purity
and truth before them.
	Do we wish our dearest earthly treasures to
go forth in the cold world with no pleasant re-
flections of their early home and natural pro-
tectors in life? No, a thousand times no! Then
we must look well to the lives we are living be-
fore them each day. Are we showing them
that the Gospel light has been a blessing to us,
by rendering us better parents than children of
the world possess?
	Do we, as wives, teach our daughters to have
a proper respect for their future husbands by
tenderly regarding the wishes of their fathers,
and thus increase their love and honor for the
same. If we do, they will look forward with
pride to the day when they can give the same
loving service to their heart’s ideal.
	If a husband watches over with kind solici-
tude the interest of the mother in his home,
the sons will most likely love and honor that
mother, and will thus be taught to regard
women as something more than a toy or com-
mon drudge, and in short, if we as mothers
and fathers lead lives of honor and aspire to
laudable aims in life, scorning to stoop to the
little despicable acts that are daily destroying
our influence in private as well as public circles,
our children will most assuredly be ambitious
to reach the same goal. 
	I verily feel that a reformation is needed in
every quarter among the Saints, for while I

[column 3]
contend with the mighty foe in the shape of
my own weakness, I am inclined to think,
from observation, others must battle to some
extent with the same evils. We know that
Satan with his legion of fallen angels are let
loose to lead astray those who are trying to
earn a salvation in the kingdom of God, and
no stone will be left unturned to gain their
point, and if we trust ourselves an instant on
the forbidden ground we may be lost.
	Oh, let us renew our energy lending all our
aid to each other by faith and prayer and good
works, and with sweet encouragement lead the
weak and help the weary to stand, for are there
not times when each will grow faint? I know
of one, and that is,
						VIOLET OWEN.


RECEIPT FOR MAKING A BAD HUS-
	BAND GOOD.

	Take of the plants of sincerity, cheerfulness
and modesty, each one pound; of the mother of
cheerfulness two handsfull; infuse them into
a large portion of personal neatness mixed
with the flowers of complacency; drain the
essence from all impurities, and add of the oil
of condescension guantum sufflcet. This has
been found a never failing nostrum, and may
be safely given in large doses, morning, noon
and night. The discovery of this nostrum has
ranged the entire kingdom of botany and ex-
hausted the resources of chemistry to find a
preparation that would make a bad wife a good
one; he is sorry to say his researches have
proven ineffectual. He can, therefore as a
prescribing physician, only give his advice to
the gentlemen which is, to marry ladies who
are already good, and by a plentiful use of the
oil of appreciation and the essence of pure
affection, keep them so.


NELLIE'S DAILY BREAD.

	“Mamma,” said little Nellie one day at
breakfast, suddenly, “every morning I pray to
God to give me my daily bread, but really it is
you that gives it to me,—isn't it?”
	“Let us think a moment about that, Nellie,”
replied her mother. “Where do I get the
bread I give you?”
	“From the baker, mamma.”
	“And he gets the flour out of which he
makes it from the miller, and the miller gets
the grain out of which he makes the flour
from the farmer, and the farmer gets the
grain—where does the farmer get the grain,
my little girl?”
	“Why, out of the ground,” said Nellie;
“don't you remember when we were at the farm
Uncle George was cutting wheat and oats?”
	“Well, now, suppose that Uncle George put
grain in the ground, and God sent no sun-
shine, and no dew, and no rain, would Uncle
George have any harvest?”
	“Why, no,” said little Nellie, looking
sober.
	“Then, you see, it is God, after all, who
gives us each day our daily bread; and when
we have fruitful seasons and plenty to eat,
we ought to be very thankful to our kind
Father in heaven, who never forgets to give
us what we need.”


I have no sympathy for an eight-hour man
with a fourteen-hour wife.—Henry Ward
Beecher.
	A cobbler in Leyden, who used to attend the
public disputations held at the Academy, was
asked if he understood Latin. “No,” replied
the mechanic, “but I know who is wrong in the
argument.” “How?” asked his friend. “Why,
by seeing who is angry first!”


4	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah	Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JUNE 1, 1887.


THE FIRST OF JUNE.
	To-day, the first of June, is the anniversary of
the birth of the late President Brigham Young,
one of the greatest and best men that ever lived
upon the earth. Brigham Young was born in 1801,
and consequently would be 86 years old were he
now living. He died in 1877, and during the ten
years his name and and fame has been more wide-
ly circulated as each year has rolled by, like that
of other wise men and prophets whom succeed-
ing generations applaud, though their contempo-
raries may have persecuted or put them to death.
Brigham Young’s name and works will be honored
down to the latest generations.
	Brigham Young favored woman’s suffrage, be-
lieved that women should have the privilege of
voting on all questions and held liberal views in
regard to the rights of women in the home and
elsewhere. He was anxious that the women of
Zion should have a paper which should be the
exponent of their views upon all the important
questions of the age, and urged the sisters to
give free expression to their sentiments through
its columns.
	The first number of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was issued on his birthday, June 1, 1872, and he
approved its name and always seemed to take a
special interest in its circulation among the peo-
ple, believing in the elevating influence of woman
in literature and politics as well as in religion.
“Educate the mothers,” was one of his favorite
themes in conversation and upon the public
stand. That President Young took a
great interest in the EXPONENT is a well-known
fact, and read it carefully, often making suggestions
as to the subjects to be treated upon, although he
had such grave responsibilities resting upon him,
and so much business to attend to. He was one
of those, who never neglected even the smallest
matters, and that was no doubt one of the elements
of his success.
	The EXPONENT is now entering upon another
volume, and it is our wish and desire and ardent
hope, that during the present year there may be a
decided improvement in its appearance. There
certainly will be if the agents in the several wards
and Stakes of Zion will increase their energy in
obtaining subscribers. If they will keep in mind
in soliciting patronage that it is not a paper that is
sustained by advertising, but almost entirely by its
subscription list. It is almost entirely reading
matter, and not page after page of advertisements;
this is an item to be considered. Recently a letter
was received at this office from a president of one
of the Stakes of Zion, who speaks of the EXPON-
ENT like this: “Your paper wherever taken I find
a decided improvement in all such families. Sis-
ters, either married or single, are in advance of
those where the EXPONENT is not found,” etc. We
publish this to encourage those who may be dis-
couraged in making efforts to extend the circula-
tion of the paper.
	Such testimony coming from one of our brethren


who has had a wide experience in the world may
be taken as authority, and stimulate those who are
laboring in its interest.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assem-
bly Rooms, on Thursday, June 23rd, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A punctual attendance of
presidents and officers from the several branches
is most desirable, but at any rate a representative
from each Society, as verbal reports are ex-
pected.
	THE Y. L. M. I. A. will hold their conference on
the following day, Friday, the 24th, commencing
at the same hours. It is most earnestly desired
that there should be a good representation, and
that each Association should be represented
verbally by the respective president or one of the
presiding officers. 
	THE Primary Associations will hold their Confer-
ence on Saturday, June 25th, it is expected in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and as it is a beautiful
season of the year, there ought to be a large num-
ber of children present. There will no doubt be
an interesting programme prepared for the occa-
sion, and the parents should be sufficiently inter-
ested to attend and encourage the children and
those who labor so nobly, efficiently and energeti-
cally to train the children of the Saints.


[Column 1]
	﻿IN MEMORIAM.

	A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.

“Bring flowers, pale flowers, o'er the bier to shed,
A crown for the brow of the early dead!
For this through its leaves hath the white rose burst,
For this in the woods was the violet nursed;
Though they smile in vain for what once was ours,
They are love's last gift—bring ye flowers, pale flowers!”

	In the flowery month of May, when nature had
donned her beautiful apparel, and the whole earth
seemed radiant with springtime one lovely flower
faded away and died; one of a numerous house-
hold band, beloved and loving, tender and affec-
tionate, kind and generous, possessed of large hu-
man sympathy, unselfish and ever thoughtful of
others, never forgetting the poor, the sick and the
sorrowful.
	Just when the evening sun was setting, and the
purple mantle of its reflected light rested like a
veil on the Eastern hills, she was laid away in the
silent tomb. Sad and sorrowful were the hearts
of the mourners, and their sobs and moans were
pitiful, but they bowed to the inevitable and tried
hard to say, “He who tempers the wind to the
shorn lamb, and who has said not a sparrow falls
to the ground without His notice, has taken her
to Himself, and though we are sore bereft, yet, we
know He doeth all things well.” Her grave was
covered with the beautiful flowers of May, the
flowers she loved so dearly, emblems of affection-
ate remembrance from true and faithful friends.
	It is needless to multiply words, but it is right
and proper to record the death of one who has
so often written for the readers of the EXPONENT,
who will doubtless remember her letters from
Nauvoo, Kirtland, and other parts of the Eastern
States, during her visit to those places in 1883.
	Louise Martha Wells Cannon, or as she was
lovingly called, “Louie,” was the daughter of
General D. H. and Mrs. E. B. Wells, and was
born in Salt Lake City, Utah, August 27, 1862.
Her disposition, from her earliest childhood, was
gentle, tender and amiable; her nature refined and
sensitive, her manners winning and attractive.
She was in many respects specially gifted; her
ardent love of music, her taste for art studies, her
genuine admiration for the beautiful and poetic in

[Column 2]
nature, and her intellectual qualities combined
with her goodness of heart, endeared her to all
who knew her, and she was a special favorite with
children.
	She died of dropsy, in San Francisco, Cal.,
whither she had gone, Dec. 29th, 1886, on a visit
to her sister, Mrs. Belle M. Sears, on the morning
of May 16, 1887, aged 24 years, 8 months and 19
days. Though suffering for about three months
the most agonizing pain almost constantly, she
never complained; her patience and fortitude was
often remarked upon by the physicians who at-
tended her. She spoke of death with the greatest
composure, though she made, as the physicians
termed it “a brave fight for her life.” Her mother
was by her side constantly during the last five
weeks of her life, and to her, and also to her sis-
ter, she spoke tenderly of all those whom she had
known and loved, that she had not the privilege of
seeing, to say “Farewell.” She died in the full
faith of the Gospel, and with a firm belief in all
its principles. She passed away suddenly at last,
without a struggle or a moan, and only once when
letters arrived by the morning mail, and her sister
called to her to look, and putting the letters in her
hands said, “Look, Lulu, look! here are the letters
you wanted!” she opened wide her beautiful, ex-
pressive eyes as though she knew and realized it
all, and then closed them again forever.
	Her remains were brought to this city, arriving
here May 21st, accompanied by her mother and
husband. The funeral services were held at 4
o’clock p.m. at the residence of her husband,
John Q. Cannon, President Angus M. Cannon pre-
siding. A few of her dear friends of the Taber-
nacle choir (to which she had belonged for years)
under the direction of Prof. Beesley, and ac-
companied by Prof. Daynes at the organ, opened
the services by singing,

	“Unveil thy bosom, faithful tomb.”

	Prayer was offered by Bishop H. B. Clawson.
	Choir sang,
	
	“Rest on the hillside, rest.”

	Remarks were then made by Bishop O. F.
Whitney and Prest. Cannon, and the Choir ren-
dered the selection,

		“Nearer, my God, to Thee.”
	
	The benediction was pronounced by her
brother, Elder Junius F. Wells. The casket con-
taining her mortal remains was literally embowered
in flowers, many of them pure white, and all most
artistically arranged. One very elegant cross
and crown, all pure white, intermingled with
green leaves, was presented by the Unity Club,
of which she was a member. An unique monu-
ment, of flowers with the name “Louie” at
the top in heliotrope in oval form was given by the
the Careless Opera Company, and there was also
an exquisite pillow of the softest and purest white
flowers with “Louie” in scarlet geranium blosoms in
the center. Large bouquets of snow balls grace-
fully tied with pure white ribbon and garlands and
festoons of various kinds representing music and
art were given by dear sisters and friends. Her
brothers and brothers-in-law bore the coffin from
the house and when the cortege arrived at the
grave, the choir rendered again that exquisite hymn,

		 “Rest on the hillside rest.”

	The grave was dedicated and consecrated by
Prest. Abram H. Cannon, in a most tender
and touching prayer. Not until all was over and
the grave was covered with the fresh earth did the
mourning friends leave the place where rested one
so dearly loved. Louie lies by the side of her
sister Emmie, who died nine years before, and
next her is Dessie, another of her sisters, who died
Jan. 1886, since the aged father has been absent
from his home.

“The loved and lost!” Why do we call them lost,
Because we miss them from our onward road?
God's unseen angel o'er our pathway crossed,


Looked on us all and loving them the most
	Straightway relieved them from life's weary load.

"They are not lost, they are within the door
	That shuts out loss, and every hurtful thing—
With angels bright and loved ones gone before,
In their Redeemer's presence evermore,
	And God Himself their Lord and Judge and King.
	
'Ay! look upon this dreary, desert path,
	The thorns and thistles whereso'er we turn;
What trials and what tears, what wrongs and wrath,
What struggles and what strife the journey hath!
	They have escaped from these and lo! we mourn."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	I thought you might like to hear a little about
the manner in which the "Jubilee" of our Queen is
being celebrated. Her Majesty, Queen Victoria,
(as doubtless you are aware) was born May 24th,
1819 and at the death of her uncle, King William
the fourth, she ascended the throne on June
21st in her eighteenth year. She married Albert,
Duke of Saxe Coburg Gothe, on February 10th
1840 to whom she bore nine children, and after a
happy married life she was left a widow in 1861
and since that time she has shown a preference
for private life. As a mother she has been an
example to her subjects and from children the
Princes and Princesses have been taught to be
useful, domesticated, and as polite to the lowest
members of their mother's household as to the 
highest. It was said that the Princess Alice was
ever proud that she had been taught how to make
dresses and to sew, and when in her home in
Darmstadt she used to make nearly all her chil-
drens' dresses, she writes to her mother and
thanks her for making her do what was useful
though at the time it was distasteful. There is
a lesson here worth every one's learning. Learn-
ing is never an encumbrance, we often need it
when we have let golden opportunities pass. As
a queen, our Sovereign has never been excelled,
and to her credit be it said she has kept her court
the most refined, pure, and cultivated, in the
whole world. She is firm but just, and any vice
or wrong in the Court circle, she sternly roots up
and denies the offenders the privilege of being
near her or attending her. The Queen by no
means sanctions much that is done in aristocratic
circles, and on account of her love of retirement,
natural to her advanced years, she fails to see
a great deal of the evil ways of society that only
need her knowledge of them for them to be eradi-
cated. The Prince of Wales, the Heir to the
throne, married in 1867 the Princess Alexan-
dria of Denmark, a most amiable and gifted lady.
By her goodness and beauty she has secured the
love of all the people and reigns in their hearts
second only to the Queen. She has brought her
five children up wisely, the two sons are away;
Prince Albert Victor is in Gibraltar, and is the
eldest, consequently he may be king some day.
Her three daughters remain with her but they are
taught to be domesticated, although they are
Princesses.
	The Prince of Wales is a general favorite on
account of his good nature. I am slightly di-
gressing, but this much I have mentioned, as the
Prince and his family are so closely associated
with Her Majesty, and many of her duties she
transfers to them to perform, that their names
must necessarily appear often.
	This makes the fiftieth year of the reign of
Victoria, who is also Empress of India, and a 
prosperous and peaceful time it has been, con-
sidering the cruel reign of some of
her predecessors. Very few have lived
to celebrate their Jubilee and those
who have, surely never had such prepara-
tions made to celebrate it with all due honor. No

[Column 2]

one seems forgotten. The children, the poor, and
every one seems to be studied. Money is being 
circulated. The poor are getting chances of em-
ployment and everything looks brighter than it
has done for some time past. As near as I can
remember the first public ceremony Her Majesty
honored with her presence this Jubilee Year was
the opening of the Edinburgh Exhibition, and
since then hardly a week has gone by without 
some Exhibition, Show, Gardens or Public Place
being opened or foundation stones laid either by
Herself or her family in her name. The Grand
National Memorial of the Jubilee is to be an
Imperial Institute which is to be built
from contributions from all parts of the United
Kingdom, the Colonies and India and each large
firm or private individual who wishes to give her
Majesty a substantial proof of loyalty, are
requested to give to this institute instead of giv-
ing presents to the Queen, who will lay the foun-
dation stone according to present arrangemements
on July 4th when full state ceremony will be ob-
served. Almost every day appeals are made to
one's purse for some Jubilee festivity or other un-
til it wearies one.  In the streets, in the shops,
everything is marked Jubilee. There are jubilee
dresses with the crown and V. R. stamped upon
them, Jubilee bonnets, Jubilee sweets, Jubilee
provisions, Jubilee drinks, Jubilee carriages and
it is accepted as loyalty when the true motive is
merely money making.
	On the ninth of May the corporation of the city
of London attended the Lord Mayor in state to
Buckingham Palace to present an address of con-
gratulation to Her Majesty upon the Jubilee, and
to surrender again (as the custom has been for
eight centuries) the Jeweled sword of pure gold,
which was made in the Reign of King Rufus, and
the same Mace that history tells us Oliver Crom-
well banished from the table of the House of
Commons, her Majesty then read her reply in a
clear audible voice, and after kissing hands the
ceremony was ended.
	The following day the third Drawing Room was
held and was the most numerously attended of
any this season. The number of Debutantes
numbering over five hundred. The greater por-
tion of the Royal Family were present and hearti-
ly glad Her Majesty must have been when her
hand was kissed by the last fair lady that after-
noon. The dresses were most costly, but the
flowers pleased me the most, they were triumphs
of nature, and the florist's art.
	Upon the same day the American Exhibition
opened at Brompton, and when I have paid it a
visit I will let you know my impressions of it.
The Queen paid it a short visit and spoke kindly 
to the Indians who performed specially for Her
Majesty under the direction of a colored lady who
is called Buffalo Bill.
	The next day Westminster Abbey received a
visit from its illustrious Sovereign who went to in-
spect the preparations that are being made for
the ceremony state service to be held in that
beautiful old building on June 28th to celebrate
the Jubilee. It was there fifty years ago she en-
tered, a girl of 18, to be crowned, and she visited
to attend service there now she is 68, in preference
to St. Paul's Cathedral. No doubt her thoughts
will float back to the time when she first became
our Queen, and of the many scenes she has
passed through since then; of the happy hours
and the sorrowful of her happy married life, and
her widowed one, and will doubtless thank God
that He has so ruled and guided her that she has 
never yet lost the love of her people.
	On the fourteenth the Peoples' Palace in East
End of London was opened by the Queen who
came up from Windsor for that purpose. Her
route lay along the principal thoroughfares of
London such as E. Road, Oxford St., Hol-
born, Cheapside, Oldgate, Whitechapel to Mile
End, where the building was situated and was a dis-

[Column 3]

tance of eight miles. The entire route was decor-
ated with flags, Venetian Masts, Mottoes, Words of
Welcome, and triumphal arches, every house dis-
played some token of respect at Holborn bars,
which is the city boundary, and where stands the 
oldest houses in the Metropolis, that escaped
the great fire of London, whose gabled roofs
stood out in sharp contrast to the modern dwell-
ing places around them. The Lord Mayor at-
tended by sherriffs and a deputation from the
corporation of the city met Her Majesty, and
having presented to her the Sword and Mace pre-
ceded the procession (which was composed of
open carriages) through the city to the city boun-
daries in Oldgate, and there drew aside for Her
Majesty to pass through. On the return journey
Her Majesty alighted and entered the
Mansion House for the first time in her life as the
guest of the Lord and Lady Mayoress, and
after taking tea resumed her journey to Padding-
ton and there took train for Windsor.
	Her Majesty was heartily welcomed and looked
very well. Her hair is quite white, and she has a 
very motherly appearance and is still very stout.
The fatigue attending this ceremonial quite over-
came Her Majesty who was consequently unable
to hold the last Drawing Room of the Season but the
Princess of Wales lovingly undertook it for her and
it was well attended. All presentations to the
the Princess are equivalent to presentations to Her
Majesty. The Queen is very fond of her palace
in Scotland, Balmoral, and spends most time
there on account of its being more secluded, and
she can enjoy private life better there. It is a
common sight to see her walking about almost un-
attended and she frequently visits the poor in their
cottage homes and relieves their wants, and she is
loved more and known better there than in any
part of her dominions. Hence, she has gone
there to spend her birthday which is on Tuesday 
the 24th of May, as well as to rest a little while. I will
endeavor to write you a further account as the
festivities proceed.
		MARION.


ONE OF MISS MULOCK'S BOOKS. 

"About Money and Other Things," but particu-
larly About Money, whether it be devoted to
the preservation of homely wits by home keeping
youths or the gathering of the moss of enlighten-
ment by rolling stones. does Miss Mulock dis-
course with that strong vein of Common Sense of
which she is a Professor in the University of Ex-
perience. At the risk of being considered un-
sentimental, unheroic, even unchristian, she has
the courage to affirm that the right or wrong use
of money is the utmost test of character, as well
as the root of happiness or misery throughout our
whole lives. And at the risk of exciting the
wrath and contempt of the advocates of the higher
education of women, she declares that it is not
necessary for every woman to be an accomplished
musician, an art student, a thoroughly educated
Girton Girl; but that it is necessary that she
should be a woman of business. From the day
when her baby fingers begin to handle pence and
shillings and dollars and cents, and her infant
mind is roused to laudable ambition by the poses-
sion of a fixed sum per week, no matter how
small, she should be taught the true value and wise
expenditure of money; how to keep accounts and
how to ballance them; to avoid incurring the small-
est debt; to observe the just proportion of having
and spending; and, above all, to take to heart the
exceeding wise doctrine of the most foolish of
men, that with the living within one's income
comes happiness, and that the living beyond it, to
the extent of a single sixpence, brings misery and
woe. Miss Mulock is quite right in saying that
he who is careless about money is careful about
nothing, and in everything untrustworthy; and


that it is the prudent man, whom he despises, to
whom at last he comes when his rashness and
thoughtlessness and criminal liberality and gen-
erosity have left him no oil with which to fill his
empty lamp. The improvident half of the world,
whom the plodding other half supports, may read
with profit—to both halves—what the author of
John Halifax has to say About Money—and
Other Things.
	Upon the subject of Genius, her common-sense
which has naturally but little sympathy with the
unwholesome and uncomfortable aberrations of
genius, is peculiarly strong; and almost for the
first time in print the characters of the last most
emphatic genius of the Victorian Age, and of his
almost equally gifted wife, are discussed in the
light of common-sense. Disappointed and neg-
lected, she did her wifely duty in a literal way,
but she seasoned it with incessant complaints,
and the cruel use of sarcasm. He lived a life ex-
ternally unimpeachable but full within with rancor,
and malice, and cruel selfishness toward her.
And for the first time all their unfortunate troubles,
of which the world has heard too much, are as-
eribed, not to his genius, but to his bad qualities
and to her morbid sensitiveness; either of which
might have been the cause of equal incompatibili-
ty in any of the "idiots" and "dolts" and "brain-
less asses" his indigestion showed him in the
world at large. In the avalanche of talk of late
upon genius, its rights and its immunities, its
errors and their excuses, its vagaries and their
results, Miss Mulock's honest opinions, so con-
trary to the opinion generally expressed, are very
refreshing.
	From her chair of Common-Sense the Professor
confesses to have lived for sixty years, and to
have written and taught for forty. To the two
generations who have listened to her wisdom and
profited by her teaching this present lecture, which
she delivers as a Christmas remembrance, will cer-
tainly bring what she hopes for it—a laugh, which
is good; a tear, which is sometimes better; and a
serious thought or two, which is best of all.—
Harper's Magazine.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS. 

SAN LUIS STAKE. 
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake was held in the Manassa meeting house,
March 20th, 1887, Mrs. Martha E. Smith pre-
siding. Present on the stand were Mrs.
Margaret Haskell, of San Juan, and Mrs. Mary
A. Boice, of Oxford, Idaho, Prest. John Mor-
gan, the President of the Stake, and other
leading brethren and sisters.
	After the usual opening exercises of singing
and prayer, minutes of previous conference
were read and approved. Opening remarks by
Sister M. A. Boice: "I esteem it a great privi-
lege to bear my testimony to the truth of this
work. We should put our trust in God, and
honor the holy Priesthood." Said her mother
had a glimpse of the Gospel; long before it was
revealed to Joseph Smith, and she had been
waiting for it; when it came to her she was ready
to receive it.
	Sister Margaret Haskell: "I am pleased to
see you, my brethren and sisters. There is a
good influence here. I can say with truth that
this is the kingdom of God, and I hope that
the sisters may have the spirit of their calling 
to rest upon them that they may learn and
teach the principles of the Gospel to each other
and to their children, that it may have an im-
pression upon their hearts." 
	Mrs. H. Christenson, Prest. of the Manassa
R. S. Mrs. A. M. Rasmussen, Prest. of Ephraim,
and Coun. Maria Showcroft of Richfield R. S.,
each spoke a short time, bearing testimonies
to the truth, of the good being done, and the
improve-ment being made in their respective
wards.

[Column 2]

	Prest. Dalton said he was pleased to see so
much interest manifested on this occasion.
"There is a power in the Relief Society; it
strengthens us in spiritual affairs, and helps
the bishop in many ways; but our greatest
duty is to mold and fashion the minds of the
young. The success of all great men in life is
due, in a great measure, to the teaching of their
mothers. The Gospel has brought together the
best men and women in the world—women
with strong minds, who have given to their sons
the strength of character that they bear."
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. by singing,
"Glorious things are sung of Zion." Prayer
by Bishop Dalton.
	Afternoon session: After singing, prayer
was offered by Coun. W. Christenson. Con-
tinued by singing, "Spirit of faith, come
down."
	The reports of the different Primary Associa-
tions were then given by their respective presi-
dents or counselors:
	Coun. S. T. Boice reported the Manassa P. A.;
Prest. Annettie Christenson, the Ephraim
Primary, and Prest. Christiena Mortison the
Richfield Primary, all of which were in a good
condition, and a lively interest being taken by
the children.
	The names of the presiding sisters of the
Stake, and also of the different ward societies
and Primary Associations were presented by
the secretary and unanimously sustained by
the conference.
	Prest. John Morgan said, "I have enjoyed
this conference very much. I am pleased to
see these organizations growing in our midst,
for they will result in much good. We should
look upon our children as an heritage from the
Lord; they are the most priceless boon that
God can give us. We should keep them at
home among the Latter-day Saints. Purity
and innocence are brighter apparel than all the
fine clothes that they can earn by working out,
where they are exposed to all kinds of influences.
God will hold us accountable for our children.
The presiding sisters should teach the Gospel
in its plainness." Spoke upon the necessity of
the sisters learning the art of good cooking, that
our bread should be light and wholesome, that
we might we healthy.
	Prest. Martha E. Smith said, "I have been
well pleased with the conference." Extended
a hearty welcome to the sisters who had lately
arrived from the Southern States. Said her
health had been poor for some time, and she
had not been able to visit the sisters as much
as she would liked to have done. Asked the
Lord to bless us all.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Choir sang, "Hope of Israel." Benediction by
Prest. S. S. Smith.
		S. T. B. Sec.

BEAR LAKE STAKE. 
	Minutes of the Relief Society annual con-
fenence on the east side of Bear River, held
at Montpelier, March 6th, 1887, Prest.
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing.
Prayer by Bishop William Rich. Continued
by singing. Minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	In a few opening remarks Prest. J. P. Lind-
say expressed her thankfulness for having the
privilege of being present on such an occasion.
She desired to hear the reports of the different
branches of the Relief Society on the east side
of Bear River.
	The several branches of the R. S. were repre-
sented by their respective presidents. Sister
L. M. Hart spoke of the tribulations which
are coming upon the Latter day Saints. Said,
"It is the same Spirit which actuated the mobs in
Nauvoo and other places, but all will be well
in the end. We will receive our reward if we
are faithful." She spoke on many other inter-
esting subjects.

[Column 3]

	Sister E. Collins bore a powerful testimony
to the truth of this work in which we are en-
gaged. She made some good remarks to en-
courage us to keep God's commandments.
	Sister Annie Laker, Stake President of the
Primary Association, encouraged the sisters to
improve the time, and not put off till to-morrow
what could be done to-day. Said we should live
nearer to God every day. so that we might feel
that we are helping to roll on God's great
work.
	Sister E. M. Pugmire said, "We have had a
great many good instructions. It is the
practical part that will do us good, not what
we hear." She gave some good instructions to
the secretaries in regard to making out re-
ports.
	Sister E. F. Budge bore her testimony to the
truth of this work in which we are engaged.
	Sister Sarah Holmes said she did not feel as
though she could add one word to what had
been said. She bore testimony to the truth of
the same, and exhorted the sisters to pray for
those who are in prison and in exile.
	Bishop William Rich spoke on the duties
of mothers to their children. Said, "We all
have an influence either for good or evil; we
will be held accountable for the way we use our
influence."
	Prest. Julia P. Lindsay knew the remarks
had been dictated by the Spirit of the Lord.
Said "The remarks have all been good and
timely and calculated to do us good."
	Meeting was adjourned until 2 p.m. by sing-
ing, "Sweet hour of prayer." Benediction by
Elder D. Osborne
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "With all my powers of heart and
tongue." Prayer was offered by Bishop A.
Wright. Singing, "Praise ye the Lord." The
sacrament was administered, during which the
choir sang a sacramental hymn.
	Sister Lindsay occupied the time in the after-
noon, giving good instructions on different
subjects. She said anyone could not instruct
the children of God without the Spirit of God.
"A Latter-day Saint cannot stand still in this
Church; they will either go backward or for-
ward." She spoke of the dividing line which
is now taking place. "No one can stand firm
to this Church without a testimony to the truth
of the same. God has called us out from
Babylon, that we might not be partakers of her
sins and of her plagues; neither should we
partake of her ways and her fashions. We
should make our own fashions, and not follow
the fashions of the world." Spoke of the laws
which have been enacted against this people,
and of the tribulations which are coming upon
this people, "but God will come from His hid-
ing place, in His own due time, and deliver
them from bondage."
	Bro. D. Osborne endorsed the remarks of
Sister Lindsay; knew they had been dictated
by the Spirit of the Lord.
	Meeting was adjourned by singing, "Let
Zion in her beauty rise." Benediction by Bro.
James Collins.
		JANE OSBORNE, Sec.

CACHE STAKE.
	The Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. of
Cache Stake convened in the Logan Tabernacle,
at 10:30 a.m., Saturday, May 7th, 1887, Prest.
Carrie M. C. Smith presiding. Meeting opened
with singing, "Hearts and Homes." Prayer
was offered by Sister E. Smith. Singing, "God
is Love."
	President Smith stated that she desired those
giving reports to state the successes or failures
with which they had met in carrying out the
programme assigned.
	Verbal reports of all the associations in the
county were given. According to the reports
the associations were in a prosperous condition.


[Column 1]

	Prest. Smith expressed her gratification with
the reports, and laid out a programme of work
which she desired all the associations to do
within the next two months. Exhorted the
young ladies to seek for a knowledge of the
truth, that they might know for themselves
whether any doctrine be of God, or of the
opposite power.
	Sister Margaret Young said, "We have heard
some good instructions this morning, and we
should impress it on our minds, that our knowl-
edge may be increased. The uppermost
thought in our minds should be the principles
of the Gospel, and dress and such matters
secondary; certainly we should be clean in
person and home, for cleanliness is next to God-
liness."
	Prest. Smith then read the names of the
young ladies who had prepared the greatest
number of references on the subjects assigned.
Sarah E. Welchman of Newton, having pre-
pared 381 on Repentance and 163 on What
the Lord calls His Church, had been appointed
to give these exercises in the afternoon.
	Singing, "Truth is Mighty." Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p.m. Benediction by Sister
Jane E. Molen.
	At 2 p.m. meeting opened with singing, "How
firm a foundation." Prayer by Sister R. Eames.
Singing. The minutes of the previous confer-
ence were accepted as read, after which Coun.
Ida F. Langton read the letter from Sister E.
S. Taylor, Territorial President of the Y. L.
M. I. A., stating why she was not with us, and
sending the following expressions to the confer-
ence:
	"Please extend my regrets to Sister Smith
and the young ladies assembled, and may the
Spirit of God be with you, and everything
which is done be for the best good of the asso-
ciations and for the advancement of the work
in which we are engaged. Sister E. R. Snow
requested me to convey to the congregation as-
sembled her blessing, and say that she feels
perfectly satisfied wiih the circumstances which
surround the Saints, and she knows that the
outcome will be glorious,"
	The programme was rendered as follows:
A member of Logan, 3rd Ward, read an essay
on "Household Economy; an essay on "What
are a few things that contribute to make useful
members of society?" was read by a member of
Newton; a song by two members of Hyrum
2nd Ward; references from Doctrine and
Covenants on "What the Lord calls His
Church," were given by Sarah E. Welchman;
two members of the Smithfield Association sang
a song; an essay on "Free Agency of Man,"
war read by a member of Richmond; Sarah E.
Welchman then read the references from the
Bible on "Repentance." This completed the
programme for the afternoon.
	Sister Jane E. Molen, President of the Prim-
ary Associations of this Stake, made some re-
marks; gave some good instructions to the
young ladies, and complimented them on their
progress.
	Sister Freeze, President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake Stake, said she was pleased
and interested with the exercises. "If we gain
a glory we must work and earn it. We must
act for ourselves and not depend on others."
The remarks of Sister Molen reminded her of
some remarks she heard President Joseph F.
Smith make on one occasion to the young
ladies, which were to the effect that he (and he
believed that other men would do the same)
would do more for his sweetheart, his mother or
his wife than for any other person, showing
what influence the young ladies had over the
opposite sex. Advised the young girls not to
marry those who were not upright and seeking
to live up to the principles of the Gospel, for
the Lord had designed that the man should be
the leader, and therefore we should seek those
whom we can look up to for counsel. Entreated

[Column 2]

the girls to attend their meetings and seek to
do right, that they might stand faithful. Ad-
vised them to fast often, for this was a key that
would open the heavens unto them. She took
it for granted that all kept the word of wisdom,
for by so doing they would find wisdom and
great treasures of knowledge, even hidden
treasures.
	Prest. Smith said she was pleased with the
manner in which the exercises had been ren-
dered, and with the remarks of the sisters. She
felt like Sister Molen, that the young ladies
were getting ahead of the older ones, and she
felt to rejoice over it. Advised all to work for
the good of each other, that we might there-
by build up the kingdom of God. "Let us
love each other. Let us seek to edify
and glorify each other. Think not that any
are too young to do good. The Spirit of
the Lord can work through a young per-
son as well as through an older one,
if each lives a worthy life." Spoke of our be-
ing deprived of the right to vote, and thought
it a gross injustice. Desired the young ladies
in any of their meetings, where they quote
from another, to give the author due credit.
	Singing; "Come, thou glorious day of
promise." Meeting adjourned until 7:30 p.m.
Benediction by Sister Adeline Barber.
	Evening session of conference: Meeting
opened with singing, "The Spirit's Cry." Prayer
by Bishop Wm. Hyde. Singing. The Terri-
tory and Stake officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
were sustained, a slight change being made in
the latter. Circumstances necessitating the
absence of the First Counselor, Sister Zina Y.
Williams, at present, Sister Retta Ormsby was
sustained as acting counselor.
	By request the exercise on the "Free Agency
of Man," which was given in the afternoon,
was again read; an essay on "What is Charac-
ter in an Individual?" was read by a member
of Hyde Park.
	Sister Sarah Thatcher, President of Logan
2nd Ward Y. L. M. I. A., said, "The Scriptures
tell us, 'Ask, and ye shall receive,'" and she
asked an interest in the faith and prayers of
those present, for she felt very weak, but felt
like standing by her motto, which was, "Do
your best, and by so doing you will in time do
better." Desired that we all strive to prove
faithful to the end, "for the race is not to the
swift, but to those who endure to the end."
	A song was rendered by a member of Logan
2nd Ward; Correspondence by two members of
Logan 1st Ward was then read, after which a
sketch of the life of the Empress Josephine
was given by a member of Smithfield; a mem-
ber of Logan 6th Ward sang a song.
	Sister Retta Ormsby said by request of Sis-
ter Smith she arose to express her willingness
to accept the position to which she had been
called. Said if she could have the faith and
prayers of all she was willing to accept it.
	Sister Freeze said her heart was touched with
pity by the cruel fate of the Empress Josephine,
and thought what a blessing it would have
been if she had lived in the Gospel dispensation,
when her husband could have taken another
wife without their separation. Said although
we as sisters had been disfranchised we yet en-
joy the right to speak, and could advise others
in regard to plural marriage, for we are not
bound by the oath like our brethren.
	Prest. Smith advised the young ladies not to
marry those who were unwilling that they should
spend at least a portion of their time for their
own improvement, and in benefitting others.
She expressed her gratitude to those who had
assisted in making the conference so enjoyable,
especially to Sister Hendrickson for the able
manner in which she had conducted the singing
and the practices to learn the songs.
	Singing. Benediction by Bro. W. H. Ap-
perly.
		ARMENIA PARRY Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I'd Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy's Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won't You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don't Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack's Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Polk, widow of President Polk, keeps
her health and memory at the age of four score
and more.
	The aldermen of Brooklyn have appointed
fifteen women as police matrons, with salaries
of $600 each.
	The entertainment of Queen Kapiolani cost
Boston about $18,000. A large part of this
was for junketing.
	Maggie Mitchell often cooks the dinner at
her Long Branch house, and lets the servants
stand by and look at her.
	Miss Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen's Wife)
received $11,000 for the manuscript of her
new book, "Somantha at Saratoga."
	Miss Ada Leigh, who successfully founded a
home for American girls in Paris, is soliciting
to establish a similar home for young men.
	The grave of Wendell Phillips was covered
with flowers on Memorial Day. Colored men
and Irishmen uniting in this tender remem-
brance.
	Thirty-three women voted at the Belmont
(Mass.) town-meeting. Twenty-two women at-
tended the caucus, which was the largest and
most orderly ever held in Belmont.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in a recent
visit to Paris, met some of the most distin-
guished suffragists of France at a reception
given at the residence of her son, Theodore
Stanton.
	Columbia College, on its centennial day,
conferred honorary degrees upon three women
—Amelia B. Edwards and Alice E.
Freeman, as doctors of letters, and Maria
Mitchell as doctor of laws.
	A returned missionary from India says that
during ten years she never saw a Hindu child
receive a caress from its mother. Girl babies


are looked upon as a disgrace, and are often
left to die or murdered outright.
	Of the three daughters whom Longfellow
immortalized in that beautiful poem, "The
Twilight Hour," Alice alone remains un-
married. She lives in the old "Craigie house"
at Cambridge with her bachelor uncle, Rev.
Samuel Longfellow.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending May 24th, 1887, as follows:
	Emma H. Ere, Lockport, Texas, Artificial
fruit, foliage, and flowers.
	Marion H. Kerner, New York, N. Y., Com-
bined eraser, polisher, and stamp.
	Harriet B. Moris, Burlingame, Kansas,
Ironing-board.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE. 

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	A delicious blanc-mange is made by stirring two heaping
tablepoonfuls of oatmeal into a little cold water, then stir
with a quart of boiling milk, flavor and pour into molds to
cool; cream or jelly may be eaten with it.
	A joint of meat may be kept many days by wrapping it
loosely in a fine cloth wrung out of vinegar and hanging it
in a draft of air. If the weather is very warm the cloth
should be moistened twice or even thrice a day.
	To Stew Fish.—Rub with salt and pepper and place in
pan, adding one pint of water to each five pounds of fish.
When about half done season with salt and pepper, one
teacup of flour, a half-pound butter, parsley and thyme.
The seasoning, if convenient, can be stirred into a pint of
oysters, or, in place of oysters, six hard-boiled eggs, sliced,
may be used. Serve with the gravy in the dish.


TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.

	In behalf of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the Fourth Ward,
Salt Lake City, to the memory of Eliza Alice Worthen,
who was born Feb. 12th, 1863, died May 14th, 1887, and
was the daughter of John and Mary E. Worthen.
	She was an active member of our Association, a beloved
teacher in the Sunday School, a pleasant and agreeable ac-
quaintance, a true and affectionate daughter, and well re-
spected by her associates and friends. We deeply regret
the loss of her presence, but desire to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in this as in all other things, and we
earnestly hope and pray that the spirit of consolation may
be abundantly given to her bereaved friends, that their
sorrow may be lightened by the hope of a happy reunion
with their loved ones in the life to come.

Sister Eliza's gone and left us,
	Her great loss we deeply feel,
But our God has not bereft us,
	He can all our sorrows heal.


She has been a faithful daughter,
	And a noble Saint indeed;
All her friends will sure remember,
	Some kind act that she's revealed.

Oh! her parents, how they miss her,
	That dear girl they loved so well;
They her kindness will remember
	While upon the earth they dwell.

She has set a good example,
	One that's worthy of the just;
Being faithful to her duties,
	And in God she put her trust.

		CECILIA KIRK.


OBITUARIES.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send for publication an obituary on the death of Sister
Mary Baugh Haslem, who died May 1st, 1887, aged sixty-
two years. She was born in Shropshire, England; came
to St. Louis, America, and was married April 10th, 1843;
was baptized in 1848, and came to Utah in 1851 with her
husband, settling in Iron County, helping to build up the
interests of the Church, always prominently lending a help-
ing hand to the sick and distressed in unison with her hus-
band. She was an acquisition to any place, and a blessing
to any county. She was an exemplary wife and mother, an
able and efficient teacher in the ward Relief Society, but
her labors on earth are finished. The Relief Society officers
and members, forming a cortege with her sorrowing family,
followed the casket containing the body to the meeting
house on foot, and afterward in vehicles to the grave. The
Elders spoke of her pure life and many virtues, consoling
the mourning family with the hope of our reunion in the
world to come. Nothing will be forgotten of Sister Has-
lem's good deeds, but the perfume from her loving actions
will cling to her memory to the end of time.

	"She is not dead, yet death has done its work;
	It came, but not in ghastliness—it, as
	A kindly porter, set the gates ajar,
	And he stepped forth, leaving the tenement
	A breathless corse, that slumbers in the tomb;
	'Twas worn and weary and it needed rest.
	No faith, nor prayers, nor the heart's yearnings,
	The loving and beloved, could longer bind
	That mighty spirit in an earthly form."
		JA E LEATHAM.
Wellsville, June 2nd, 1887.

	Being requested by the bereaved husband and adopted
daughter of the deceased, and by the Relief Society of
this ward, I send for publication a tribute of respect to the
memory of our beloved President, Sister Ellen B. M.
Whiton, who died April 25th, 1887, at the age of seventy-
two years. She was baptized in the year 1852; emigrated
in 1853 from her home in Lancashire, England, to these
valleys of the mountains, where her husband, Henry Moran,
was killed by the Indians in 1856. She subsequently
married her present husband, Israel Whiton. On the 4th
of July, 1868, she was called to the office of Treasurer for
the Relief Society of this ward; in 1873 she was appointed
President, which office she held at the time of her death.
	Sister Whiton was an earnest, energetic worker in all
things connected with this place; ever ready with her coun-
sel or her means to attend the bedside of the sick and the
couches of the dead, to see them laid away in the proper
cerements of the grave She died as she had lived, with
the love and esteem of all who knew her. The Relief
Society officers, teachers and members followed the casket
containing all that was mortal of our beloved sister to the
meeting house, which was packed, everyone showing respect
to the remains of the honored dead. The Elders of the
ward paid tribute to her many good deeds and noble
character, and as if God delighted to honor, Apostle John
H. Smith, happening in our city, came with consoling words
and beautiful ideas, showing the benefits and uses of death,
being the arch over the dark river connecting and amalga-
mating the living and the dead, taking away our selfishness
for the things of this life alone, turning our hearts to those
who have finished this life and gone out to join their
friends in the world beyond the grave.

	"Peace to her ashes! Her loved memory
	Needs not of mortal praise. Her works abide;
	And she, with all whose lives are fashioned by
	The unadulterated Gospel mold,
	Will live eternally where Christ shall reign."
		JANE S. LEATHAM.
Wellsville, May 27, 1887.


﻿R.K. THOMAS
			EAGLE EMPORIUM,
			SALT LAKE CITY.
			The Leading Retail
				Cash House.
				R.K.THOMAS
			DAVID JAMES & CO., 
	TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
	ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
			Z. C. M. I.
		SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
	IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
	Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
				MENTS,
		CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
	PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
	CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
	GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
	We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
		H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.
			Special to the Ladies.
			AT TEASDEL'S 
Will be found the latest styles and productions 
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
	FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
		RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
	And an elegant assortment of
			DRY GOODS: 
	Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
ant's Shoes. 
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

