Vol. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1887.		No. 8.


“AT BREAK OF DAY.”

		BY DAVID SKAATS FOSTER.

The stars fade slowly, twinkle, pale and die,
	Before the halo rising in the east,
A rosy glamour steals athwart the sky.
	And grows to flames of gules and amethyst.
	The hills are silver-rimmed, the curtain mist
As at some swift command, rolls back from field,
	Valley and lake and wood, and floats away,
And the whole glorious pageant is revealed
	At break of day.

There is a solemn murmur of the breeze,
	There is a ripple on the lonely shore,
A solitary chirp among the trees,
	Is taken up and echoed o’er and o’er
	And dies away, and all is still once more.
Then comes the signal and all living things
	Raise up an anthem, glorious, blithe and gay,
And the whole land with one glad chorus rings 
		At break of day.

There is a night of sorrow and unrest,
	A darkness of the soul, a night when all
The world of thought is haunted and oppressed 
	And hemmed about, as with a dungeon wall,
	When heaviness and fear upon us fall.
Take courage, then ! the longest, darkest hour
	Comes just before the first faint tinge of gray,
And sadness has no place, and fear no power,
		At break of day.

And when that last, that silent, starless night
	Comes over us, when the dark, sorrowful stream
Sweeps at our feet, in dread, relentless might,
	And every deed and word and thought shall seem
	To pass before us, in a troubled dream,—
What joy! to watch the faintly outlined shore
	Rise, grand and glistening, ’neath morn’s silvery ray,
To know that night departs forevermore
		At break of day,
									 —Golden Rule.


THE DEAD.

			A DIRGE.

		I love the dead—
	The precious spirits gone before,
	And waiting on that peaceful shore,
To meet with welcome looks,
			and kiss me yet once more.

		I love the dead;
	And fondly doth my fancy paint
	Each dear one, washed from earthly taint;
By patience and by hope
			made a most gentle	saint.

		O glorious dead !
	Without one spot upon the dress
	Of your ethereal loveliness,
Ye linger round me still,
			with	earnest will to	bless.

		Enfranchised dead !
	Each fault and failing left behind,
	And nothing now to chill or bind,
How gloriously ye reign
			in majesty of mind !

		O royal dead!
	The resting, free, unfettered dead, 
	The yearning, conscious, holy dead,
The hoping, waiting, calm,
			the happy, changeless dead !

		I love the dead !
	And will forget their little ill,
	Eager to bask my memory still
In all their best of words,
			and deeds, and ways, and will.


I bless the dead!
	Their good, half choked by this world’s weeds,
	Is blooming now in heavenly meads,
And ripening golden fruit
			of all those early seeds.
		
		I praise the dead !
	All their tears are wiped away,
	Their darkness turned to perfect day—
How blessed are the dead;
			how beautiful be they !

		O gracious dead !
	That watch me from your paradise
	With happy, tender, starlike eyes,
Let your sweet influence rain
			me blessings from the skies.

		O godlike dead, 
	Ye that do rest, like Noah's dove.
	Fearless I leave you to the love
Of Him who gave you peace.
			to bear with you above !

		And some, just dead,
	To me on earth most deeply dear,
	Who loved, and nursed, and blessed me here
I love you with a love
			that casteth out all fear.

								TUPPER.


A PRETTY PEN PICTURE.

DEAR AUNT EM:
	I have often thought I would describe to
you some one of the few excursions which I
have attended since I came here, but the last
few months I have allowed myself to let all
my literary amusements fall away from me.
My heart has been too heavy for even the
least effort.
	Now, however, I am going to try and tell
you of a little trip which a few of us took to
the island (as it is vaguely called) on the 11th
of last June.
	It was a national holy day here, being the
birthday of Kamehameha I. A concert to be
given by our choir here, over at Kahana,
took almost everybody away from here. But
as we, over here, were not included among their
singers or their guests, we were left at home.
After our concerters had departed, it oc-
curred to us that it would be an excellent plan
to get the boat and go over to the island, a
little piece of land about a quarter of a mile
out from the mouth of the river.
	However, I remembered that I had been in-
structed to ring the bell for the Hui Manawa-
lea (the R. S.) and what could be done. We
talked the matter over, and agreed to invite
the sisters of the Hui M to join us over on the
island, bringing their poi, w. taking our lunch,
and after an impromptu feast hold meeting
over there.
	The sisters soon spread the word, and all
were anxious to go. Accordingly we set out.
We put on our bathing suits, put dry clothes
in our valise, aud started. Mother walked
down to the sea, but I was taken down in the
boat from the mooring place on the river, a
short distance from the house.
	Here we are then, gathering from all points
of the compass. Our boat was heavy laden,

[Column 2]
and the water was low, and of course we
stranded twenty times ou the way down, but
two or three half grown boys and girls calmly
tucked up their clothes aud pulled us off
again.
	When we reached the mouth of the river,
we found many of the sisters waiting for us.
We tried to get mother to get in the boat,
but no, she insisted on walking across through
the sea, and away we went. It seemed to me
every woman had a child; but tucking up their
clothes, they all waded in and across. It was
only about waist deep. Once across, all busied
themselves in collecting materials for dinner—
Raw shell fish, sea moss, and raw hei or devil- 
fish; and what laughing and chatter. Pono
caught a great big fish with the hook and line.
Mother and Lula went hunting shells and curi-
osities, while I sat down under the shade of
the umbrella and watched the natives.
	Gracious! what an utter disregard of anything
like modesty. It is startliug to new-comers,
but, like “kissing niggers,” nothing when you
get used to it.
	The folks brought in a pail full of shells, and
the natives many a handful of raw fish of vari-
ous kinds.
	Our simple feast was soon dispatched, the
natives appearing in clean white wrappers,
carried across in bundles on their heads. A
short meeting followed, and then we set out for
home. Mother still persisted in walking across,
and in the hurry turned her foot from which
she still suffers at times.
	All in all it was a very pleasant day, and
many impressions, of which I have only given
you the skeleton, were graven on my mind.
The purple sky, fleeced with lazy clouds, the
golden, mellow sunshine, tempered by the salt 
sea breeze, the splash and jar of the waves up-
on the shore, the dark, bare-limbed natives,
graceful and slow, in the blue waters at their
work, the visions of the past, and the fears of
the future, all had a vivid place in my mind
that day. So it is! If asked to repeat our ex-
perience, we often bring out a rude frame work
of events, and set it up, unclothed with the
hopes, the thoughts, the bright impressions or
sad interlacings, that made it what it was—a
chapter in our lives.
						HOMESPUN.
Laie, Aug. 8, 1887.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.

		MINUTES BY SISTER C. V. SMITH.

	On Wednesday last, Sept. 7th, the annual
gathering in honor of Sister P. S. Kimball
met at her residence, in the 16th Ward, to
celebrate the 77th birthday of that venerable
and respected lady. About forty of the sisters
from different parts of the city and others
from the surrounding settlements, assembled
about noon, and sat down to a table loaded
with all the delicacies of the season. After
dinner the gathering took the form of a meet-
ing, aud Aunt Presendia was introduced
and requested to occupy a handsome plush
covered easy chair, which was presented to her
as a substantial token of esteem oy her sisters
and friends. After singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a Prophet,” prayer was offered by
Sister Young.)
	Sister Presendia then arose and thanked the
sisters for their presence, and for the beautiful


token of their affection and esteem, and felt to
praise God for all His blessings and the love
and good will of the sisters, and prayed that
all might be blessed and spared to meet again
on a similar occasion.
	Some selections were read, and then Sister
Fowler said she was glad to be present on this
occasion, and was proud of Sister Kimball, and
felt that she had her love and respect. Sister
Savage congratulated Sister Kimball on at-
taining her 77th birthday. Sister Polly
Howard made a few remarks. Sister Coon
said she thought she was the oldest sister
present, and she felt pleased to see so many
gathered together to honor Sister Kimball.
Sister Stewart of Draper said she felt proud to
be one with the sisters on this occasion, and
hoped she would be enabled to follow Sister
Kimball's example, and be a blessing to her
generation. Sister Airmett felt to pray that
she might be steadfast in this work and be
blest with all the faithful. Sister Bathsheba
Smith expressed her pleasure at being present'
and felt to bless Sister Kimball with all the
power and authority she possessed, and hoped
she would live long to be useful to those who
needed her, and that her blessings might be
multiplied with her years. Sister Toone felt to
bless all present, and expressed the same wishes
for Sister Kimball's health and happiness.
Sister Dyer was glad to meet with the sisters,
and felt that the Spirit of God was present
in our midst. Sisters Sanders, Jeffs and Becker
then expressed their feelings of good will.
Sister McAllister said she had never met with
a better spirit or heard more beautiful senti-
ments than those uttered by the sisters, and
she hoped that all would be blessed and have
strength to overcome all the difficulties and
trials that presented themselves, from within
as well as from without. Sister Allsop felt to
endorse all that the sisters had said, and felt to
stand by every doctrine and principle of our
faith. Sister Watmough said she felt to bless
Sister Kimball, who had been her counselor
and friend for many years. Sister McClain
felt to bless all the sisters, and hoped that Sis-
ter Kimball would live many years to meet
with the sisters on her birthday. Sister Dyer
then spoke in tongues, and the interpretation
was given by Sister Young. Singing, "The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."
	Sister Maggie Cahoon said a few words, and
Sister Fenemore said she felt glad to be able
to meet with the sisters on this occasion; said
she thought if we could only lift the veil we
would see the angels present with us. Hoped
that all would enjoy the Spirit of God, that we
might all go on as Sister Kimball had done, and
be faithful as she had been. Sister Davis of
South Cottonwood said though all had not
come from her ward that she expected to see,
still she knew that all felt good to Sister Kim-
ball, and joined in all the blessings and affec-
tion manifested by the sisters. Sister Roberts
said she felt good to be here. Sister L G.
Richards said she felt to bless Sister Kimball,
and pray that she might be long spared to
bless the sisters. Sister Grieves said she felt
that these meetings were like drops of dew to
a thirsty soul. Felt to ask God to give a bless-
ing to every one that came to this habitation
for that purpose, and that God would keep us
faithful, that we may return and see our Father's 
face in heaven.
	Sister Cecelia Sharp then recited a piece,
entitled, "Guilty, or not Guilty."
	Sister Gray said she had attended thirteen
anniversaries of Sister Kimball’s birthday, and
she hoped she would be spared to attend as
many more. Sister Maggie Sharp said she
thought Sister Kimball looked younger instead
of older, and hoped she would live long to en-
joy every blessing that had been promised her.
Sister R. Daynes and Sister Lyons expressed
similar sentiments. Sister Kittle said she felt
grateful for the privilege of being present; felt
to love Sister Kimball for her work’s sake.
Prayed that she might be able to bring up her
children in the fear of the Lord, and that we
might all be faithful in this kingdom. Sister
Johnson said she felt that we had had a good
time, and hoped that such meetings may be re-
newed for many years. Sister Minnie Gray
felt that all had been blessed in their visit here.
	Sister E. B. Ferguson said she felt that these
birthday gatherings grew better and better
every year. It was a red letter day in the
year, for the Spirit of God and the angels were
here. How many have been blessed in this
house! Every one that comes here says,
"What a holy place; how peaceful and how
sacred the influence!" Felt that the prayers
of the sisters would be answered, and that
Aunt Presendia would be blessed and spared
for yet many years to do good. Hoped that
Sister Kimball would use the easy chair, and
not spare it, for if it was worn out before the
next birthday the sisters would re-cover it.
	Sister Young said that all blessings were
conditional upon our faithfulness, and Sister
Presendia had been faithful through trials,
that would have tried the utmost recesses of
any human heart. The Prophet knew of her
faithfulness, and saw by a revelation, when he
was in Liberty Jail, that she was to be his wife,
and the position that belonged to her.
	(Sister McClain then blessed the sisters in
tongues, which was interpreted by Sister
Young.)
	Sister Woodmansee said although she came
late, she felt blest already in hearing Sister
McClain bless the sisters in tongues. She felt
one with the sisters in blessing Sister Presendia,
and hoped the Lord would spare her life, that
she might continue to be a blessing to others,
and that we might all find her to be a very
present help in time of trouble.
	Sister Presendia then blessed the sisters in
tongues, interpreted by Sister Young. She said,
"If your eyes could be opened to see the bless-
ings that God has in store for His faithful
children, we could hardly believe ourselves.
Be comforted, my sisters, for the Lord hath
many blessings in store for those who are faith-
ful. Then we shall be united to our husbands
and children, and see those who have been
faithful and overcome through much tribula-
tion."
	Mother Coon then spoke in tongues, which
was interpreted by Sister Young.
The meeting closed with singing, "Lord, dis-
miss us with Thy blessing," and prayer by Sis-
ter Emma Toone.
	The following poem way read by Sister Lula
Greene Richards, as also the poem by Sister
E. R. S. S., entitled, "Evening Thoughts," and
"Our Twenty-Fourth," by Hope.
			TO SISTER P. L. KIMBALL,
			ON HER 77TH BIRTHDAY.
			Thy three-score years and ten are past,
			The term to man allotted,
		Yet thou art hale and hearty still,
			Though seven more are added.

		Thy intellect is bright and strong,
			Thy woman's heart so warm,
		That all the graces round thee throng,
			Acknowledging the charm.

		Thou art not as the iceberg, cold,
			Imposing, stately, grand;
		But like the glorious sunbeam, 
			That warms the grateful land.
	
		That wakes the flowers to beauty,
			And with perfume fills the air,
		Shedding hope, and faith, and life, and love,
			And gladness everywhere.

		The sick and chastened seek for thee,
			Not ever seek in vain:
		Thou lov'st to soothe the stricken heart,
			And make the reason plain,
	
		To justify our Father's ways,
			Though wrapt in mystery,
		And prove it is in love He slays,
			For this is given thee.

		No drone art thou in the human hive,
			No cumberer of the ground,
		But patient beacon to thy sex,
			And ever waiting found.

		Then live, and love thy patron be,
			And peace ’mid surging strife,
		Till time yields to Eternity,
			And death is lost in life.
										C. V. SMITH.
S. L. City, Sept. 7, 1887.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


TALKS ABOUT SCRIPTURE.

	The Ten Commandments were given to the
Isrealites, descendants of Abram or Abraham,
through Moses, from Mount Sinai, in a desert
bearing the same name. As we know, the
Lord had delivered the Israelites from the
bondage of the Egyptians, who had become
their masters, through the influence of Joseph,
a descendant of Israel, exercised upon Pharaoh,
the King, previous to the seven years’ famine.
We have also read the interesting account of
the many plagues brought upon this same
mighty empire of Egypt, because of its wicked-
ness toward the enslaved Israelites. And how
many times the King, a descendant of the
same Pharaoh, refused to liberate the chosen
people of the Lord. No natural father could
be more watchful over the wants of his child-
ren than the Lord was over the necessities of
this people whom He had delivered from their
enemies, and afterward preserved from thirst
and starvation, which would have been inevit-
able so many times without His  kind and
fatherly assistance.
	The Bible tells us that some of their food,
called “manna,” was preserved for future
generations to see upon what sort of bread their
forefathers subsisted for the space of forty
years.—Exodus xvi, 32.
	Moses had taught the people during their
travels, and indeed before leaving Egypt, that
it was against the will of the Lord for them to
bow the knee and worship aught besides Him-
self. When in the desert of Sinai Moses com-
manded the people to clean and prepare them-
selves to worship the Lord their living God,
while he went up into the mount to receive
further instruction concerning the wanderings,
destination and government of the Lord’s peo-
ple. On his return, can the surprise and con-
stenation portrayed upon his countenance be
imagined, to find this favored people worship-
ping a golden calf, made from Egyptian jewelry?
We read that his feelings were so much wrought
upon that he allowed the stone tablets, upon
which were engraved the ten commandments,
to slip from his grasp, and they were broken,
so that new ones were hewn from another stone
to replace the fragments.
	The death of so great a number of their peo-
ple was a just, but terrible judgment of the
Lord, for this great and enormous sin of
worshipping idols and breaking His direct
word at the same time.	
	We have now upon the earth more than one
half of its inhabitants worshipping idols, in
the shape of animals, both living and imitated,
in wood, silver, gold, etc., the heavenly bodies,
as the sun, moon and stars, the elements, as
fire, water, wind, etc.,and the objects in nature,
and produced by nature, as the mountains, and
living persons set up as gods. One class
worships the devil, because, as they argue, the
Lord is all goodness, and can, or will not harm
them, while the devil is all evil, and they wish
to subdue his wicked passions by their entreat-
ies.								L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESS TO THE MUSE.

Let poesy’s inspiration sweet
The darts of envy now defeat,
And cruel strife depart afar,
While peace and love address the bar.
My musing spirit, where art thou?
I need thy glorious presence now;
Relieve a trying hour like this,
And thrill my soul with peaceful bliss;
My joy and comfort thou hast been
Through many a dark betroubled scene,
And fain thy face I now would see,
That I might give my thanks to thee.
O, that I could have power and light
To find thy dwelling place to-night;
If up the Logan Canyon now
The cooler breezes fan my brow,
While gliding on with anxious haste,
Thy love and blessing shall I taste.
And if I raise my voice in prayer,
Sweet spirit shall I meet thee there?
My wounded soul, where shall thou go
To hear the holy numbers flow,
That lift my soul from things of earth
To music of celestial birth?
O, let me touch the slumbering lyre
That makes thy sweet prophetic fire.
Oft hast thou called me from my sleep
Thy golden calycles to reap;
How sweet to mark the whispered line
Beneath thy influence divine;
This favor I would ask of thee,
Pray do not stay too long from me;
If other friends have gold in store
I’m sure they could not love thee more;
Revive to me the blest returns
Of echoes heard by Watts and Burns,
While fragrant breezes waft their store
Of flowery language used by Moore.
When near the river side I stand,
'Tis there I feel thy gentle wand;
And in the Temple of our God
Thy holy numbers oft have flowed.
O bring me now thy soothing power,
With grace and wisdom for the hour.
I know it is the blessed part
To cheer the sad, disconsolate heart;
Thy mission I can often see
When thou return’st to visit me;
But let me not offend my God,
Nor need His hand to use the rod,
His sweet reproof should not be lost—
He chastens those He loves the most.
But after stripes that He has given,
The heart inhales the love of heaven.
The Holy One from Timon came—
All glory, to His holy name;
The good he sends is still so great,
The evil has but little weight.
O, let me love and praise Him still,
For what He sends, both good and ill;
With humble heart I’ll kiss the rod,
My righteous Father and my God;
Accept my heartfelt thanks and praise
For life and light in latter days.
									J.P.


BIOGRAPHY OF MRS. MARY ANN
			YOUNG
	Soon after the Saints had reached Nauvoo
(then called Commerce) Brigham Young was
called on his first mission to England. At
that time his family were ill with fever and
ague, and his wife had been very recently cou-
fined. Mrs. Young’s sufferings then seemed to
have reached the climax, and in the midst of
sickness and poverty, having been deprived of
every comfort of a temporal nature calculated
to make life pleasant or desirable, she was
called to part with her husband and compan-
ion, and again to be left alone, unaided, except
by Him who hears the raven’s cry. Mrs. Young
trusted in God and exercised that faith which
none but a Saint can comprehend. When Mr.
Young left home their babe, Alice, was ten
days old. She subsequently became the wife

of Hon. H. B. Clawson, and died at St. George
in Dec., 1874.
	The courage and heroism of Mrs. Young at
that time are worthy of all praise. Like a
woman of God, she said to her husband, as she
had always been in the habit of doing when
duty called him in the darkest hour, “Go and
fill your mission, and the Lord will bless you,
and I will do the best I can for myself and the
children.” With the true devotion of a lov-
ing and faithful wife, Mrs. Young, in the midst
of her own trials, sympathized deeply with her
husband, who was worn out with fatigue and
exposure, almost beyond the endurance of even
man to bear, and had been for sometime ill,
and at the time of his departure for England
was not able to walk even a short distance.
They were then residing at Montrose, on the
west side of the Mississippi River, opposite
Nauvoo.
	Mrs. Young was often compelled to cross the
river with her babe (leaving her little ones in
charge of the eldest girl) to obtain such things
as were necessary for their sustenance. These
journeys were frequently made in a small skiff,
and on some occasions in storms that would be
calculated to frighten women of ordinary
courage; but Mrs. Young was undaunted, and
she has passed through trials in thousands of
instances, under which it would seem women
of fine nervous temperaments such as hers,
must have succumbed. These hardships and
vicissitudes have given her such shocks as have
undermined her health, and although she is
living now (at this present writing, but since
deceased), and is in full possession of her
physical and mental faculties, yet the pressure
and strain has been such as only those who trust
in God could possibly endure.
	After Brigham Young's return from England,
he removed his family to Nauvoo, and there
Mrs. Young enjoyed a short respite from the
extreme hardships which had marked her
married life. In 1842 Mrs. Young’s daughter,
Luna, was born, her only daughter now living;
she is the wife of Hon. George Thatcher, and
the mother of ten children.
	October, 1844, her youngest son, John W.,
was born; he was the first male child born after
the revelation upon celestial marriage had been
given, and his parents had entered into this
holy order of matrimony. Mrs. Young’s testi-
mony in regard to the doctrine of the Latter-
day Saints is strong and powerful. She says
that she knows Joseph Smith was a prophet of
God, and that Brigham Young is his rightful
successor, by testimony upon testimony of the
fulfillment of prophecies uttered by these lead-
ers of the people. She says, “I know it for
myself, and I bear this testimony to all the
world, that this is the everlasting Gospel, re-
vealed by the power of God’s inspiration and
the visitation of angels in the dispensations of
the fulness of times.” That the revelation
given to Joseph Smith upon “plural marriage,”
she received at first as “thus saith the Lord,”
as also every principle of faith and doctrine
revealed through Joseph Smith and Brigham
Young. Mrs. Young, through all her trials
and difficulties in sharing pioneer life with the
people of God, has never rebelled against any
principle, but has borne a heavy share of “the
heat and burden of the day.” In the exodus
from Nauvoo with her family of small children
in the dead of winter, she was ever cheerful
and buoyant, aiding and strengthening her hus-
band in the discharge of his arduous labors, by
her faith and courage. Mrs. Young is a woman
of great benevolence of character, and hospit-
able in the extreme. Her labors have ever
been to do good to the Saints and to minister to
those in need, especially to the widow and
fatherless. 
	With her own hands, during the first years of
the settlement here, she baked bread to dis-
tribute among the Indians. She had been
thoroughly disciplined in habits of industry in
her early life in New England, and could spin
and dye and oversee all that class of home-
work, as well as to perform much of it herself,
which she did, notwithstanding her many cares
and duties, both in her own household and as
a mother among a great body of people.
	During the time that Mr. Young was
Governor of Utah, Mrs. Young entertaiued
many strangers and people of rank and posi-
tion in the world, ever presiding as hostess
with that unassuming dignity which is charac-
teristic of true greatness. She is a woman
whom no changes of fortune or circumstances
could ever alter.
	She is fond of domestic retirement, and has
been for so many years compelled to meet
strangers, that now she feels the need of rest,
and in the bosom of her family, surrounded by
loving friends; she enjoys the luxury of a com-
fortable home, made pleasant by the dear faces
and loving presence of those who are ever ready
to minister to her wishes.
			To be Continued.


﻿NECESSITY OF PRAYER.

	If we could realize the necessity of prayer,
we would never neglect to offer up our thanks
and gratitude morning and evening for the
multitude of blessings that we receive. We
cannot feel that it lessens our self-respect to
bow in humility to our Heavenly Father.
Would we not, if we wished to ask a favor of
a well respected friend, approach them with
courtesy, and prefer our request in well chosen
words? And when they had kindly granted
the favor would it not be good manners to ex-
press our appreciation in a few appropriate ex-
pressions? Then, if we do not feel this humili-
ating, why should we to bow on our bended
knees to our Heavenly Father, and express
our  thanks and gratitude in language that
seems most suitable to each one of us, and
earnestly beseech Him to guide and guard us
every day and hour of our lives.
	The character and attributes of the God we
believe in, are beautiful and sublime; but in a
short article I can only touch upon some that
appeal most strongly to my feelings. I have
always felt a reverence and respect for His
greatness, but a love for His goodness. And
to think that He loves each one of us, with all
our faults, no matter how poor or unfortunate
we may be. He will hear our prayers, no
matter where we are, or what we are. And
He will sustain us through every trial that He
in His wisdom and mercy sees necessary for us
to pass through, in order to prove our true
worth.
	Then let us not feel that we weary Him with
our constant pleading, but ask Him to teach
us how to pray, that we may not ask for any-
thing that would not be for our welfare or the
welfare of those for whom we pray.
	And may we be more earnest in our supplica-
tions, that by our zeal and His ever watchful
care, we may be enabled to overcome the
temptations that we are bound to be surrounded
with, for we must have opportunities of choos-
ing good from evil. Then may we all live so
faithful, and strive to perform our little every-
day duties so well, that we may be fortified
and strengthened for the greater ones as they
come along.
	Hoping that we may all remain true through
every test and trial, is the earnest prayer of a
member of the Improvement Association,
					MARY E. L. NEFF.
	Nephi.


The Union-Signal says: “The University of
Pennsylvania is the first of State institutions
to forbid the use of tobacco to its students.”
But Oberlin College did this fifty years ago.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparcil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
SALT LAKE CITY, - - September 15,1887..


GENERAL CONFERENCE.
  
	The Fifty-seventh Semi-Annual Conference of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will be opened
at 10 o’clock on Thursday, October 6th, 1887, in
the Tabernacle at Salt Lake City, and will con-
tinue until the business necessary to be transacted
has been attended to. The officers and members
of the Church are respectfully invited to attend.
	On the evening of Thursday, the 6th, there
will be a general meeting of the Young Men’s
and Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions.
	On Friday evening there will be a general meet-
ing of the Superintendents, Teachers, and all in-
terested in Sunday Schools.
	On Saturday evening there will be a meeting of
the Priesthood.
	These meetings will commence at 7 o'clock in
the evening.
	We wish the officers of these organizations to
bear these appointments in mind.
			WILFORD WOODRUFF, 
In behalf of the Council of the Twelve Apostles.


EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The subject of the Salt Lake Library has not
been editorially treated upon in the EXPONENT,
except in the first effort made to secure a Ward
Library. Its having taken this form, that of a
Stake, will secure to its members and the public
much greater advantages, and it will be of in-
creased benefit to the people. It will reach a
larger number of persons, and open up a new field,
comparatively, for obtaining knowledge. Organ-
ized effort is always more effectual, both individu-
ally and generally. Such a broad field for the
cultivation of intellect, as is now to be extended
through this avenue (the Salt Lake Stake circu-
lating library and reading room), cannot fail to
materially change the current of reading matter
and of thought with many, and impress and awaken
a wish and desire, that will be attainable, to get
reliable information on topics of the day and
times past and present, that will be of incalculable
value to the young student especially, and to those,
to whom the world of literature is just opening its
inner doors, or who are entering upon advanced
studies in the arts and sciences. 
	The first great prophet of this dispensation
said, in language not to be mistaken, get knowl-
edge from the best books. The Latter-day Saints
should certainly be the best informed of any peo-
ple on the face of the earth, but it is not expected
that knowledge will be gained without an effort on
the part of the individual. The saying, "There is
no excellence without labor," applies to reading
and studying, and digesting what is read and
studied, as well as to other departments of labor.
People who read for pastime, generally read very
light works, or if not, read in a very careless way;
but those who read to gain knowledge cannot be
too particular of the way in which they read,


otherwise they are as likely to become confused,
and get wrong impressions as they are to receive
real benefit. The selection of books is one of the
most important matters, for bad books are almost,
though perhaps not quite, equivalent to bad com-
panions. There are parents who do not trouble
much about the quality or kind of books their
children read, yet would be very careful about
their associates. In such a library as the "Stake
Library," there will be no danger in regard to the
character of the books, because it will be in the
hands of those, who are perfectly capable and
qualified to select, and it will be a great relief, no
doubt, to many who feel the necessity and im-
portance of the choice of books, to know that it
will be safe to draw them from there without any
examination of the works beforehand. Other
Stakes of Zion will probably adopt the some or a
similar course in the collection of books, and the
formation of a library, and in this way a great ad-
vancement will be made in useful and classical
knowledge and attainments.
	We wish this library the most unbounded suc-
cess, and consider it should receive the influence
of those who wish to see the youth of Zion attain
unto that higher development which will prepare
them for the exceeding great responsibility that
will certainly devolve upon them in the great
events that must transpire in these the last days.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
				---
	ON Friday, September 8th, we had the pleasure
of attending the Relief Society Conference of the
Weber Stake, in the Ogden Tabernacle, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards presiding. There was a very
large congregation present, and Prest. L. W.
Shurtliff and Coun. Middleton were present on
the platform, as also several Bishops and other
brethren in the audience, as well as some on the
stand. There was a good representation made of
the work of the R. S., and much good advice
given, as well as encouragement to the faithful
laborers in the temporal and spiritual works of
Zion. In our next issue we expect to give the
minutes of the Conference. A good spirit pre-
vailed, and some of the speakers addressed the
congregation with a good degree of power.
	The 7th of the present month (September), was
the anniversary of the birth of Mrs. Presendia L.
Kimball, one of the veteran women in Israel. On
that day she completed her 77th year. Her only
sister, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, arrived by train
the evening before, just in time to participate in
the festivities of the occasion. She had been in
Bannock Stake for a short time past, holding meet-
ings, and visiting among the organizations of the
R. S., Y. L., P. A., etc.
	About forty of the dear friends of Sister Kim-
ball assembled at her residence before noon, in-
tending to make a day of it, and tables were set,
loaded with good things, in preparation for the
feast. The affair was in the management of a
committee of ladies, Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, Mrs.
Mary Grey and Mrs. Eliza Schutt being active in
aiding to make the affair a complete success. We
congratulate Sister Kimball on having reached
her 77th birthday in such good health, and that
she has had opportunities for the accomplishment
of so much good. May she be blessed in her fu-
ture life as she has been in the past, and more
abundantly.


THE SALT LAKE STAKE LIBRARY.
				---------
	In compliance with a request made of me by the
Editor of this paper, I will briefly state the object
and what is being done in the matter of the forma-
tion of a library in Salt Lake City; also its Con-
stitution and By-laws.
	The object of the institution is to found a circu-
lating Library and Free Reading Room, where the
young, middle aged and elderly part of the com-
munity may find "nutriment" to feed their
minds, in the way of ecclesiastical, religious, bio-
graphical, historical and scientific works, etc.
	Especially is it designed to be an institution of
learning religious truths and moral philosophy.
To bring to bear such influences as will develop a
taste for learning, leading many to thus employ
their time in a way beneficial to themselves, and
they in turn be able to benefit others. It is also
designed to have FREE LECTURES given by our
best talent for the benefit of those who are dis-
posed to learn.
	To this end have books and money been dona-
ted to start the institution, and we are steadily re-
ceiving donations of books and money from differ-
ent parties, which is very gratifying. And from
now on, Bro. Joseph E. Mullett, of 19th Ward,
Librarian, will receive all books, and H. S. Hall,
of Valley House, Treasurer, will receive all
monies donated to the institution.
	It is expected to open the Reading Boom some
time in October.
	The following are Constitution and By-Laws:—
			CONSTITUTION.
				Preamble.
	We, the citizens of the Salt Lake Stake, and
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, desiring to establish a circulating
library and free reading room in said stake, do
adopt the following Constitution and By-laws for
the guidance of the same.
				SECTION I.
	The organization shall be known as the Salt
Lake Stake Circulating Library and free Reading
Room.
				SECTION II.
	The officers shall consist of a President, Vice
President, Secretary, Treasurer and Librarian.
				SECTION III.
	The President, Vice President, Secretary and
Treasurer with three others shall form the Board
of Directors.
				SECTION IV.
	The first election of the said officers shall be
held July 18, 1887, and they shall be elected
biennally thereafter.
				SECTION V.
				Duties of Officers
	It shall be the duty of the President to preside
over all the regular meetings of the Board of Di-
rectors, to call special meetings whenever nec-
essary, and to sign all orders on the Treasurer for
the payment of money.
	It shall be the duty of the Vice President to
perform all the duties of the President in the ab-
sence of the latter.
	It shall be the duty of the Board of Directors
to attend all meetings of the association and to
have general supervision over the affairs.
	It shall be the duty of the Secretary to attend
all meetings of the Board of Directors, to take
and record the minutes of the same, and to con-
duct all necessary correspondence under the
direction of the Board of Directors.
	It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to keep
a strict account of all means received and dis-
bursed, and he shall make no order for the pay-
ment of money except by order of the President.
	It shall be the duty of the Librarian to receive
and classify all books, to have general supervision
over letting the same out, and whenever necessity
requires it, he shall have the power, with the ap-
proval of the Board of Directors, of appointing
an assistant.
				SECTION VI.
	The President of the Church and his Counsel-
ors, the Twelve Apostles and their Counselors,
the President of the Salt Lake Stake and his
Counselors, and the Delegate to Congress from


Utah, shall be honorary members of the associa-
tion. 
              -----
  	BY-LAWS.
      	SECTION	I.
	ARTICLE I.—All Latter-day Saints and persons
properly recommended,all honorary and life mem-
-bers, and all subscribers have the privilege of
 drawing books from the Library.
				SECTION II.
	ARTICLE I.—The cost of life membership
shall be $10.00; annual subscription, $2.00; semi-
annual $1.00 and quarterly 50 cents.
	ARTICLE 2.—A receipt signed by the Librarian
will be given to each subscriber.
				SECTION III.
	ARTICLE I.—No member or subcriber will be
permitted to transfer his (or her) privilege to any
other person.
				SECTION IV.
	ARTICLE I.—Subscribers will be notified of the
expiration of their subscriptions, and unless it be
renewed within a reasonable time, they will for-
feit their right to draw books.
       SECTION V.
	ARTICLE I.-Persons not regular subscribers,
upon proper recommendation, will be allowed to
draw books upon deposit of the value of the
books or series, and payment for the use as thereof
at the rate of ten cents per week.
				SECTION VI.
	ARTICLE I.—A label is on the inside of each book,
stating how long the book can be kept; and for
day kept over the specified time the holder will be
subject to a fine of ten cents.
				SECTION VII.
	ARTICLE 2.—Books marked "Reference” will
not be allowed to be taken from the library, and
any person violating this rule shall pay a fine of
$3.00.
				SECTION VIII.
	ARTICLE 2—Upon a written application before
expiration of the prescribed time a book may be
issued the second time; but no book
will be issued the third time to the same per-
sons. 
				SECTION IX.
	ARTICLE I.—Persons desirous of drawing
books, who reside outside of this Stake, may re-
tain books double the regular length of time np-
on proper recommendation.
				SECTION X.
	ARTICLE I—The librarian will be the only per-
son permitted to take books from or place them
upon the shelves.
				SECTION XI.
	ARTICLE I.—If a volume be defaced, injured or
lost, the owner must pay the value of the book.
If a whole set the holder will be responsible for
their replacement.
				SECTION XII.
	ARTICLE I.—A registry book will be kept at the
library, where the name of every person drawing
books will be kept.
				SECTION XII.
	ARTICLE I.—Periodicals and papers will be
kept on file and any person mutilating or ruining
them will be fined $3.00.
				SECTION XIV.
	ARTICLE I.—All fines and penalties herein pro-
vided for shall be strictly enforced, and any per-
son refusing to pay such fines, will lose all rights
of drawing books until fines are paid.
				SECTION XV.		
ARTICLE I.—Any rule or regulation necessary,
any amendment, or any change in constitution
and by-laws, may be made at any regular meet-
ng of the board of directors, by and with the con-
sent of a three-fourth majority vote of the dele-
agates present from the wards.
				SECTION XVI.
	ARTICLE I.—The Librarian shall keep a list of
the books called for, which are not in the Library,
the author and the subscriber and the dates called
for, and by whom; and such books shall, when
the funds will permit, be purchased and placed in
the Library.
	After the adoption of the foregoing constitution
and by-laws the meeting adjourned until July 18,
1887, at 8 p.m. in the Social Mall, when the offi-
cers for the ensuing two years are to be elected.
					J. M. WHITAKER. Prest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
    SEVENTY-TWO MORMONS TO BE
	 		   TRIED.
Seventy-two Mormons are to be tried! Tried
for what? Have they injured any one? Is there
any destruction in their path?  Who has suffered
through their offences? Woman has been pro-
tected from insult and injury! The sacred
rights of wife and mother extended, and
such protection given her as in no other part of
America! These men are not being tried for sin;
no! Not for falsehood, fraud or deception in any
way! Then for what is our thrifty Territory hunted
through, and our best men incarcerated, robbed
by fines and vexed by costs of suit, while wives
are left in sorrow and trouble, and children to be
scattered, with only the protection of heaven?
Perhaps they think the ship Zion has run aground,
and that there is nothing to do but to send these
pretended protectors of liberty, like eagles with
talons sharpened, and fasten upon these unpro-
tected women and children to destroy them as a
"slaughter of innocents."
	Our government does not send its representa-
tives here to inquire carefully into our real condi-
tion, and to know if we are the people we are re-
presented to be! Are there not men in high
places in the world who are of doubtful integrity?
Are they all honest? Does not the world need a
reform, beginning in the hearts of husbands and
wives, to honor and be true to themselves and the
sacred  trusts imposed upon them as parents, in
keeping covenants and obligations? What if the
ship of state should stop on its cruise to Utah
and see if all is safe and sound between here and
Washington?
	We are not perfect, but our principles are, and
would save any family, town, country or nation
from crime or sin, if adhered to. "Mormonism," as
it is called, is a star of Bethlehem, a forerunner of
great events if known and understood; and it has
met with the same opposition as He whose coming
was heralded by that wonderful "star in the East."
It has done wonders already. For instance, the
whole United States has joined with one accord,
"Away with the ship Zion."
	Utah is no disgrace, with its lovely homes,
honestly labored for, with God's special care over
those who have subdued the desert places, digging
for thousands of miles ditches to irrigate the fields
and the trees, and to provide drink for the flocks
and herds. Now, through persecution, how
crippled are the efforts, taking away the business
men, the bone and sinew that wrought, as well as
the brains that planned and prompted. Seventy-
two men to be tried for no crime, for no guilt.
Will the God, who rules the universe, and who
holds the destiny of nations in His hands, close
His ears to the prayers of the wives and children
of the innocent men who are condemned unjustly?
Almost 300 have already been incarcerated; those
that have served their term in prison, some have
been enfeebled through it; and for what are they
sentenced? For murder? No! for the very op-
posite; for producing life, and sustaining it nobly;
for truly honoring wives and establishing homes.
[column 2]
Not one of these men, no, not a Latter-day Saint
in fellowship in the whole Church has a woman
(not a wife), as the world calls it; no, not one, but
wives! It is for wives and children, and for tak-
ing care of them and providing homes for all of
them. No people now on the earth are so happy,
pure, free, virtuous, upright and brave, honoring
and fearing God with praise and thanksgiving in
their hearts, as true Latter-day Saints, good men,
loved and honored wives, and protected in their
homes.
	This despised people are in the possession of
principles, thst the world might be truly proud to
acknowledge and live by. The true Saint has
confidence in himself, in his God and in his
brethren, and they have more in each other than
other people, who know not God. Our nation has
acted without a knowledge of the truth. There
are, undoubtedly, many good and noble souls, who
do not wish to inflict cruelty upon the innocent,
and who would shrink from participating in it;
but as surely as the sun ever shone this nation is
now sanctioning something barbarous and inhu-
man, and they little dream of the consequences.
Seventy-two Mormons under indictment to be
tried, and what for? For making a country and
peopling it—too honorable to insult a woman or
to cause her cheek to burn with shame, but offer-
ing her marriage, with all its sacred ties and rela-
tions; and for this our nation is frightened out of
countenance. What if our enemies should run
the ship of state ashore, while the ship Zion rides
the waves proudly, her banners floating aloft,
 that all the world may see?
					ZINA D. H. YOUNG.


SCHOOL.
				------------
	School, in the usual acceptation of the term, is
an institution for teaching, and for developing the
faculties of the mind by means of books etc., in
the hands of those qualified to instruct, according
to the rules laid down by the author.
	And yet, we might go further and say, the whole
world itself is one vast school for obtaining knowl-
edge and understanding, even from the cradle
to the  grave, for we are continually reaching out
and grasping after information upon some subject
or other, at least it is so with every intelligent be-
ing.
	The little child will count one, two, three, before
it ever knows the value of numbers or their uses,
and ask all kinds of questions as soon as they
learn to talk. At no period in our lives do we
cease to learn unless old age deprives us of the fac-
ulties of our minds.
	In the last century wonderful improvements have
been made, in regard to establishing and improv-
ing the system of schools; and the children of
this age possess many very superior advantages
which were denied their predecessors; the facili-
ties for instruction being now so simplified and
varied, that any one possessed of the least mental
capacity, can hardly fail to obtain a common edu-
cation.
	In some periods it has been considered unneces-
sary, and entirely out of place for common people
to learn even the first rudiments of their own
language; and even among the higher classes it
was only considered really essential for the
Priests.
	The diffusion of knowledge, through the medi-
um of schools, has now become general in all en-
lightened countries; there are many places par-
ticularly noted for their excellent institutions of
learning, and I hope some day, not far distant, to
see Utah take a prominent place among the na-
tions in this respect.
	There are many different varieties of schools,
Dancing, Fencing, Horsemanship, and many other
accomplishments are taught in schools for this ex-
press purpose.


Schools are in and of themselves, among the
greatest blessings we enjoy. Volumes might be
written upon the subject to explain it in all,its
bearings and it would still be inexhaustible.
	The subject is one of vital importance to us all,
but I am not capable of bringing out any ideas
which will be worthy of note although I have
the greatest and most profound respect for all In-
stitutions for the dissemination of knowledge up-
on the earth.
						EMMA WELLS.
	January 14, 1874.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STATEHOOD DISCUSSED.
				----------
	RICHFIELD SPRINGS, N. Y. Aug. 28, 1887.
EDITOR DESERET NEWS:
	I concur in every word of your admirable reply
to the Chicago Times on the question whether
Utah now has a republican form of government,
which I had the pleasure of reading in your paper
of the 23rd inst. Perhaps I can supplement what
you have said by explaining that while it is true
that every Territory is under the government of
Congress so long as it is a Territory, and that the
Federal Government is a republican form of
Government, yet it is not in accordance with the
trust which the Constitution of the United States
devolved on Congress, for the Federal Govern-
ment in any case to prolong indefinitely the Terri-
torial condition. The subject of the relations of
the Territories to the Federal Government is not
new to me.
	I had occasion to investigate it thirty years ago,
when I took part in the last argument in the Dred
Scott case before the Supreme Court of the
United States. From that day to this I have al-
ways understood that the purpose with which the
Federal Constitution conferred on Congress the
power to create Territorial Governments in any
region of country belonging to the United States,
however acquired, as well as to manage and dis-
pose of the public lands, was to form such com-
munities into States and admit them into the Union;
and that this power was not bestowed as a means
of indefinitely prolonging the Territorial condi-
tion, and keeping open a field for Federal patron-
age and power. I do not suppose that at the
present day there can be found anywhere in this
country a well informed constitutitional lawyer,
who does not regard Congress as clothed with a
trust to bring every Territory into the Union as a
State as soon as its inhabitants desire it, and they
have the requisite numbers and resources to sus-
tain a State government of the republican form.
What shall be considered a sufficient population
has varied in different cases; but in the case of
Utah there cannot be the slightest question of a
sufficiency of population or resources. There is
no dependency of the United States that has a
larger population than Utah excepting the District
of Columbia.
	What then is the obstacle, or the pretended ob-
stacle to your admission into the Union as a
State?
	If there had never been any polygamy in Utah
you would have been made a State long ago. But
now, the guarantees which your proposed constitu-
tion offers, whereby it will be made certain that
polygamy will not be a practicable social relation
in the New State, ought to be satisfactory to the
whole country. I wish to convey to your people
who know me, my unqualified conviction that it is
perfectly competent for a new State, when it enters
the Union, to make a compact with the United
States, limiting the State's sovereignty in certain
respects, as the proposed constitution for Utah, by
a compact therein contained, limits the pardoning
power and the power of amending the constitu-
tion in the matter of polygamy; certain writers in
different parts of the country have very foolishly
asserted that the Mormons of Utah are trying to
play a “trick,” and that when the State has been
admitted the Constitutional inhibition of polygamy
will be repealed! These persons do not see that
any repeal or change of those provisions is made
by the Constitution itself entirely impossible with-
out the consent of Congress. This would be a
good and valid compact between the people of
Utah and the people of the United States, after it
has taken effect, and it ought to satisfy reasonable
men. The Federal Constitution itself contains
many such compacts. It lays prohibitions upon
the States which diminish what would otherwise
be the scope of their sovereignties. If a State
were to do one of the things which are thus pro-
hibited, the Federal government could easily find
means to prevent individuals from availing them-
selves of the benefits of such a breach of the
compact which every State in the Union has made
with the United States by accepting and ratifying
the Federal Constitution. If your proposed con-
stitution shall become the fundamental law of the
State of Utah, not only will all motive and tempta-
tion to contract plural marriages be extinguished,
but such marriages will be rendered legally im-
practicable, and must remain so, unless the Con-
gress of the United States should release the State
from the compact.
	What, then, will the people of Utah gain by be-
ing admitted into the Union under this proposed
constitution? First, the whole subject of poly-
gamy will be withdrawn from the legislation of
Congress, and that relation or condition of social
life will be placed under the ban of a safe and
valid compact between the people of Utah and
the people of the United States, or to express it
differently, but with the same meaning, it will be
placed under a solemn compact between the State
sovereignty and the sovereignty that is established
by the Federal Constitution. Secondly, you will
gain a republican form of government, which no
Territory has or can have in the proper sense of
that description; for as you very justly say Terri-
torial government is not self-government by the
people of any Territory that the United States
possesses.
	There is a very great amount of popular preju-
dice and ignorance prevailing through the country,
against which you have to contend. I am often
amazed to see how everything relating to the re-
ligious beliefs and practices of the Mormons is
misrepresented in journals that ought to know
better. But the public mind is becoming slowly
enlightened on this subject, and by the assembling
of the Congress I hope to see the way smoothed
for those public men who will have to act on this
question of your admission, by enabling their con-
stituents to view that question as they ought. Let
not your people be discouraged; and I pray you,
Mr. Editor, to continue to combat error and so-
phistry in the forcible, spirited and dignified way
in which you have hitherto encountered them.
	With the best wishes for the prosperity and
happiness of all your people, Mormons and Gen-
tiles alike, I am,
				Yours sincerely,
						GEO. TICKNOR CURTIS.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			---------
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Thirty-third Conference of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of the Weber Stake of Zion was held
in the Ogden Tabernacle, Sept. 9th, 1887.
After the usual opening exercises, prayer being
offered by Elder R. Ballantyne, the statistical
and financial reports of the several Associations
were read.
	Prest. Sarah Herrick expressed herself as
being much pleased with such a good showing
of the Associations as the reports represented,
and the large attendance at conference to-day
was an evidence of the interest taken by the
young ladies of Zion in the duties of their re-
ligion. She felt the need of the Holy Spirit
in our weakness to assist us in the good work,
and invoked the blessing of the Lord upon all
present, especially upon the speakers, that rich
instruction and counsel might be imparted on
this occasion.
	Coun. E. Y. Stanford said, "The reports
submitted give evidence of improvement in
the Associations throughout this Stake, and
our recent visits among many of them have
satisfied us that the young sisters are working
faithfully in helping to build up the kingdom
of God," and she would exhort them to con-
tinued faithfulness, and even greater diligence
to obtain the blessings designed to be conferred
through these organizations.
	Sister Jane S. Richards remarked, "It is not
the talking we do that will take us to heaven,
but the good works we perform here upon the
earth. We have been told to live pure, up-
right lives. This is our duty, and we should
be careful to obey all good counsels coming
from those over us, especially those of your
parents, who can train you in the knowledge
of God and direct you to exaltation and
glory."
	Coun. Charles F. Middleton said, "In look-
ing over the congregation in this house yester-
day (the Relief Society Conference), I saw
elderly ladies, who had passed through a great
deal of experience in the Church, but who had
not had the privilege that you enjoy of meeting
in their youth in associations of this character,
and receive instructions as you are doing to-
day, from those appointed to preside over you.
There is a great work and great responsibility
resting upon the youth of Zion, both male and
female. You should be careful of the com-
pany you keep, and select and prefer as much
as possible the society of those brought up un-
der the influence of the Improvement Associa-
tions, who lead exemplary lives."
	Sister Emily Shurtliff was indeed pleased to
see so many young ladies present, and taking
such deep interest in these societies. "We
should all be earnest, diligent workers, and
prepare ourselves, by the study of Church
literature; to give a reason for the hope within
us."
	Benediction was then pronounced by Elder
Wm. H. Wright.
	At 2 p.m. conference resumed its session,
prayer being offered by Bro. J. Stanford.
	Sister R. Canfield gave an excellent report
of the 5th Ward Association. This ward had
only been recently organized, through the 4th
Bishop's Ward having been divided into two
wards.
	Coun. R. E. Monch was very pleased to
meet in conference this afternoon. "Among
our many duties we should guard against tale-
bearing. If we hear anything bad about a
person, do not spread it so as to make it worse,
but cultivate the spirit of charity, and treat
everyone kindly, seeking for the Spirit of the
Lord, which guides in the paths of truth and
righteousness."
	Elder Joseph Stanford said, "These Associa-
tions, I am happy to say, are proving a great
benefit to the young people of Zion, but from
the reports I think that the average attendance
at meetings should be increased. It should
be the aim of all to make them attractive. In
rendering the exercises, the motto should be
improvement. Readings, recitations, essays,
etc., should be delivered in a strength of voice
that all can hear; there is nothing so unpleas-
ant, and which detracts so much from a meet-
ing, as a failure to hear the speakers. Regard
should also be paid to punctuation and rhetoric,
that the proper sense and meaning of what is
read or delivered may be conveyed with inter-
esting and edifying effect. Exercises, when
necessary, should be criticised, with a view to
the correction of errors. Those who preside


should, in the discharge of this duty, breathe
the influence of love and kindness, and cor-
rections should be received in the same spirit.
The works you read and study for the most
part are of inspirational origin; they contain
divine truths, and the children of Zion have to
become proficient in all that will make them
morally and intellectually great and powerful.
We should be ambitious to acquire the com-
mand of good language, for under divine
priesthood and blessing, perfect language, in
fact all the arts, sciences, professions, and all
that there is good and great in nature, will be
made subservient to the glory of God and the
happification and blessing of the humble and
obedient of the human race."
	Sister Monch spoke in tongues, and Sister
Russell gave the interpretation, the purport of
which was, that the Saints were to arouse
themselves—"awake, awake, to righteousness!"
and blessing and joy and power awaited them.
An holy influence pervaded the hearts of all.
	The following presidents reported their socie-
ties, bore their testimonies and felt blessed in
being present to enjoy the good influence and
valuable teachings manifested by the speakers:
M. A. Piley, Second Ward, Sarah A. Hart,
West Weber, Annie Taylor, Mound Fort,
Annie Belnap, Fourth Ward, Maria Russell,
Riverdale, M Ferrin, Eden.
	Elder Richard Ballantyne had greatly en-
joyed the meeting; the instructions were valu-
able, and we should make them available to
our benefit by a practice of them. He ex-
horted all to be obedient to the commandments
of God, and in an earnest, feeling manner in-
voked the blessing of the Almighty upon the
daughters of Israel.
	Prest. Sarah Herrick in a few choice remarks
expressed deep satisfaction of feeling for the
good spirit manifest during the meetings of
of this conference, and an appreciation of the
instructions given, and after referring to some
items of business, announced the adjournment
of the conference for three months. Singing,
"School thy feelings," etc. Benediction by
Bro. McIntyre.
			M. CHAMBERS, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	As one of the weak handmaids of the Lord
I can no longer restrain my feelings, but must
give vent to my sentiments, and express my
gratitude to God before all the world, that I
live in this eventful age, when God has again
spoken from the heavens, and the light of day
is dawning upon woman, who has been trampled
under the foot of man for ages; when God in
His infinite mercy is restoring her to that level
for which she was created.
	I feel that every daughter of Zion should 
sing praises to Almighty God for restoring
such glad tidings. It is a very strong proof
 of the divinity of this great Latter-day work,
which we profess to believe in. Think of it, 
girls! think of it, mothers! Do we appreciate
the blessings and privileges we enjoy? The
world call us slaves and dupes, but where in 
all the broad land do women enjoy such free-
dom? Where are they looked upon by their
husbands as their equal, their counselor, if
you please, a helpmeet in very deed? Should
we not, then, educate ourselves to fill such a 
noble position honorably and acceptably before
God? It is a matter of deep reflection for
young women. Inquire of yourselves, what is
the object of your creation? There certainly
must have been a purpose in it. The Scriptures
tell us that, "God created man in His own 
image; male and female created He them." 
Why should woman be considered so far infe-
rior to man? Man has perverted the Gospel,


broken the law and changed the ordinances;
this is why they are.  How beautiful to con-
template the restitution of all things in these
the last days.  The Gospel breaks the fetters
wherewith woman is bound, takes her by the
hand and says, "Woman, know thyself."  The
women of Zion have a great and important 
work to do.  "Man is not without the woman,
nor woman without the man in the Lord."
	Before closing I wish to show my apprecia-
tion of such noble, God-fearing women as
Ruby Lamont, Lula Greene Richards and
others, who dare proclaim the word of God
amid such strong inclinations to follow fashion.
I heartily endorse every word they say, and
feel that there are many of the daughters of
Zion who would gladly accept their doctrine,
were it not for lack of moral courage to make
their first attempt.  But if the leaders in so-
ciety among the Latter-day Saints would ac-
cept and practice it, the rest would gladly
follow.  It is said that "example is better than 
precept."  I believe it true in this case.  How-
ever, I feel that the words of these intelligent
ladies are not lost, but are as bread cast upon
the waters, and will return after many days,
bringing its reward; and if my humble testi-
mony will add any encouragement to those who 
are laboring to elevate women, I will feel
amply paid for having endeavored to en-
courage.


﻿ITEMS FROM UTAH STAKE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	DEAR SISTER WELLS:—After many times
thinking of writing to you, I have now deter-
mined to do so. When I last wrote my hus-
band was absent on his term of imprisonment
for conscience’ sake. I am thankful now he
has returned home in moderate good health
and spirits. During his term we lost one of
our children by death. He was permitted to
come to its burial, a few days before his re-
lease.
	There has been considerable sickness in this
place for some time past, chiefly whooping
cough, and turned to lung disease among
children and babes.
	On the 19th of August last Bro. H. H.
Gluff, Sister A. K. Smoot and myself went up
to Pleasant Valley to visit the Relief Society
and Primary Associations, and to effect an
organization. The late President left the
valley for good, or for the present, at least.
Mrs. M. A. Richard was elected President of
the Relief Society, with Mrs. H. Walton and
Mrs. Balantine as Counselors. For the Prim-
ary Association, Mrs. R. Avery was chosen
President, and Mrs. L. Whimpy and Miss Lizzie
Potter Counselors. We had a very pleasant
trip and visit, found the Saints faithful to their
trust. On our return we stayed over at Mill
Fork, where there is a small branch of the
Church. We there also organized a Primary
Association with about thirty members, with
Mrs. Lewis as President, and Mrs. Kate Wood
and Mrs. Bigley, Counselors. We also had a
nice time there. We left Provo on Aug. 19th,
and returned after a trip of four days.
	The quarterly conference of this Stake, also
the Relief Society was held last week. We
had good meetings, good and timely instructions.
Much was said concerning our children, and
the immorality brought about through excur-
sions.
	I feel it a day of warning to the Saints, as
well as those of the outside world, and we
should be on the alert in word and deed to for-
ward the cause of the kingdom of God on the
earth.
	Your sister in the Gospel covenant,
						MARY JOHN.
	Provo City, Sept 7, 1887.


CHARITY.
	"But the greatest of these is charity" was
the utterance of that great man among men,
the apostle Paul, eighteen hundred years ago,
and the sentence has come sounding down
through the ages in clear ringing tones to the
present time.  Its truth, is echoing in our 
hearts to-day; but, alas, how little of its beauty
and greatness do we see exemplified.  If our
enemy hunger it may be an easy enough mat-
ter to feed him with a few hard crusts that fall
from our table, or on some holiday when bub-
bling over with good will we might vouchsafe
him a slice of cake or plumpudding.  But of 
the charity "that thinketh no evil," that al-
lows to every one his own right to think and
the expression of his thought seems to be a
harder matter.
	We do not quarrel with one another because
our noses are not all of the same length and
our eyes of the same color, yet, in as reasona-
ble a way, there is a readiness to pounce upon
one of differing opinions with a savage willing-
ness to have him burned at the stake, if it were 
only the custom to do such things.  That there 
are such numberless differences of opinion is
a truly blessed state of affairs, for if all per-
sons thought, acted and looked alike this would
be an extremely dull, commonplace sort of a
world.
	The golden rule has not its coinage in the 
instincts of human nature and it is a hard
thing for us always to allow others to do unto
us as we do toward them.  It is so easy and
self satisfying, too, to see wherein others are
wrong, and to condemn all faults and foibles
not our own.
	The dishonest man condemns his drunken
brother, and the hard-hearted man who never 
did a thoroughly good act in his life looks
askance at a weak, unprincipled brother while
his whole manner says, because thy sin is not
my sin, therefore it is deserving of the severest 
penalty.
	In one of the Charles Dickens' stories he
tells of the inoffensive, good little boy, David
Copperfield, who was very illtreated by his
step-father, and the more cruel the treatment
the greater became this dislike until a mere
sight of the boy would throw the step-father
into a rage.  So it appears to be a principle
of human nature that when the strong and
masterful person misuses those who are weak
he comes to dislike and despise them.  But
once let the stronger tenderly care for the
weaker, and work for that one's good even to
the denying of self and he acquires a love that
will make itself felt as the charity that "think-
eth no evil."  Our hearts as well as our minds
grow with what they feed upon.
	Often after years of vigorous, unsatisfying
struggle for the attainment of some of "life's
empty bubbles," when perhaps, careworn and 
misunderstood by our fellowmen we find there
is some one whose touch of sympathetic kindli-
ness causes our hearts to throb with a quick-
ened joy that revivifies and strengthens us and
we exclaim.  "Of the good things of life the
greatest of all is charity."
	There is a sublime beauty expressed in those
precious words "Father forgive them for they
know not what they do."  While all other
voices would be raised to condemn, he, whose
alone was the sinless life, could look with un-
bounded  charity, not upon sin, but upon the 
doer of evil.  If we all can enter the heavenly
school and, sitting at the feet of the Great 
Master, learn to love our neighbor as ourself
and then shall we grow up tall and strong in
"the wisdom that is from above; which is first
pure, then peaceable gentle and easy to be en-
treated, full of mercy and good fruits, without
hypocrisy."—Ex.
								S.B


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MAKE FRIENDS.

     Life is very critical.  Any word may be our
last.  Any farewell, even among joy and merri-
ment, may be forever.  If this truth were but
burned into our consciousness, and if it ruled
as a deep conviction, and a real power in our
lives, would it not give a new meaning to all
our human relationships?  Would it not make
us far more tender than we sometimes are?
Would it not oftentimes put a rein on our rash
and impetuous speech?  Would we carry in
our hearts the miserable suspicious and jealous-
ies that now so often embitter the fountain of
our loves?  Would we be so impatient of the
faults of others?  Would we allow trivial
misunderstandings to build up strong walls be-
tween us and those who ought to stand very
close to us?  Would we keep alive petty
quarrels, year after year, which a manly word
any day would compose?  Would we pass
neighbors or old friends on the street without
recognition, because of real or fancied slight,
some wounding of pride, or some ancient
grudge?  Or would we be so chary of our kind
words, our commendations, our sympathy, our
comfort, when weary hearts all about us are
breaking for just such expressions of interest
or appreciation as we have in our power to
give?—Manford's Magazine.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Nellie Grant Sartoris and one of her
children have arrived in this country for a
visit.

	Queen Carola, of Saxony, has established a
free kindergarten for the benefit of children of
poor laborers on her estate, Sibyllenot, where
she annually spends part of the summer.

	The author of “John Halifax, gentleman"
(Mrs. Craik), well presents in the Forum for
September, a woman’s estimate of the distinc-
tive mental and moral characteristics of men. 

	Denver, Col., is to have a college for women,
modelled after Wellesley and Vassar. The
“Ladies’ College Society," which has the mat-
ter in charge, is to be incorporated, and will
raise $750,000 in real estate and cash.

	Women, according to W. T. F. Donald, a
prominent business man of Atchison, Kan.,
have revolutionized the affairs of that State,
and made it one to be proud of. He thinks
the next decade will see women voting in every
State in the Union.—Pittsburg Despatch.

	Mrs. Dr. Ellis, an American lady, is physician
to the Queen of Corea. She has apartments
in the royal palace at Seoul, and receives a
yearly salary which is equal to eighteen
thousand dollars. She is expected to visit the
queen daily, and remains in call when Her
Majesty is indisposed.

	Helen S. Abbott, of Philadelphia, has been
elected a member of the Philosophical Society
in that city, of which Benjamin Franklin was
one of the fouuders. Only six women have
been eleeted during the one hundred and
twenty years of the society’s existence. The
first lady was Franklin’s friend, the Princess
Dashkoff. The others were Mrs. Mary Somer-
ville, Maria Mitchell, Mrs. Agassiz, and Mrs.
Carl Seiler, of Philadelphia, author of “The
Voice and singing." Miss Abbott is admitted
for what she has done in analytical chemistry.
—Ex.

	The apostles of woman should not fail to
notice that the leading reviews in the London
Athenœum of July 30 are devoted to books
done by women, namely: Miss Kate Norgate’s

[column 2]
"England Under the Angevin Kings,” which
is voted “the standard history of England in
the twelfth century,” Desire Charnay’s "An-
cient Cities of the New World," translated by
J. Gonino and Helen S. Conaut, and Miss
Alma Strettell’s translation of “Spanish and
Italian Folk-Songs, whose work receives en-
thusiastic praise. The works of Miss Norgate
and Miss Strettell are published by Macmillan
& Co.—Boston Beacon.

	Women are acquiring recognition in quarters
where one would least expect it. A cardinal
of the Church of Rome has been in consulta-
tion with the congregation of missionaries at
Brussels concerning the establishment of a
seminary for the education of women to be sent
to preach the Gospel in the French possessions
in Africa. The cardinal expressed his convic-
tion that women were better fitted than men to
convert the African youth. From St. Peters-
burg comes word that the minister of the inte-
rior has submitted to the Imperial Council a
project for the establishment of a university, to
be managed on the plan of that at Heidelberg,
where women may be taught the higher sciences,
including medicine.—Ex.

	Mrs. Hancock says that once, when the
General felt called upon to entertain half a
dozen Sioux chieftains, she helped him in his
task by playing the piano for them. The music
evidently had power to please, if not to“soothe
the savage,” for immediately negotiations com-
menced, through an interpreter, to purchase
the "big captain’s squaw," along with the
"music table.” Beads, robes and blankets
were first offered for the exchange. When the
“big captain” rejected these, supposing the in-
ducements were not sufficient, they added
ponies to an increased number of robes and
trinkets of all kinds. Their indignation and
dissatisfaction were apparent, and quickly
made evident by their leaving the house in
Indian file, without a glance here or there,
seeming deaf to the interpreter’s appeals to re-
turn—Ex.

	I have brought Thomas Jefferson up to think
that it was just as bad for him to listen to a
bad story or a song as for a girl, or worse, for
he had more strength to run away, and that it
was a disgrace for him to talk or listen to any
stuff that he would be ashamed to have Tirzah
Ann or me to hear.- I have brought him up
to think that manliness did’nt consist in hav-
ing a cigar in his mouth, and his hat on one
side, and swearin’ and slang phrases, and a
knowledge of questionable amusements, but in
layin’ hold of every duty that comes to him,
with a brave heart and cheerful face; and
helpin’ to right the wrong and protect the weak,
and makin’ the most and the best of the mind
and soul God had given him. In short, I
have brought him up to think that purity and
virtue are both feminine and masculine, and
that God’s angel’s are not necessarily all she
ones.
	SAMANTHA ALLEN, in Southern Cultivator.


Patents have been granted to women during
the week ending Aug. 9, 1887, as follows:
	Anne C. Spencer, East Greenwich, R. I.,
Toilet Case.
	Sarah W. Trabue, Girard, Ill., Baling
Press.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, at Mesa City, July 8th, 1887, Emily Stratton, the
beloved wife of John Haskell Pomeroy, born in England,
Aug. 20th, 1860; came to Salt Lake with her parents when
a mere child. She was left at the tender age of two years
without a mother's care. She leaves a fond and devoted
husband, and four children, the youngest a babe of six


days old, and a host of loving friends to mourn her loss.
Always cheerful and pleasant, her bright smile won her
friends wherever her lot was cast. She was a faithful, con-
sistent Latter-day Saint; was a member of the Relief So-
ciety, and for some time a Counselor to the Stake President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., but resigned on account of ill health.
Was Treasurer of that organization at the time of her
death. She died full of faith in the Gospel, and looking
forward to a glorious resurrection with the just.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite wisdom
has taken from our midst our beloved sister, Emily.
	Resolved, That we, the members of the Mesa Relief So-
ciety feel to tender our love and sympathy to the memory
of our departed sister.
	Resolved, That in this our great bereavement we feel to
acknowledge the hand of God, and bow in humble sub-
mission to His will, but realize that in her we have lost a
true friend and faithful laborer in the work of God.
	Resolved, That we hereby tender our love and sympathy
to the family of the deceased, and express an earnest
desire that the Holy Spirit will impart comfort and consola-
tion to them in this hour of deep affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the family of the deceased, a copy sent to the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication, and also placed on the Society
records.
		ELEANOR MORRIS,
		ANN PETERSON,
		SARAH M. POMEROY,
		SARAH RUSSELL,
			Committee.
	DIED, at Mesa City, Sept. 3rd, 1887, Emily Elizabeth,
daughter of John H. and Emily Pomeroy, aged one
month.


R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
	 
	Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.
Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
	Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant’s Shoes.
	112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

