Vol. 16.				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1888. 			No. 17.


﻿ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
Eternity's broad space now opes to give,
	Loved one to thee, thy place and honor due;
Into that realm for which thou e’er didst live;
	Zion’s great leaders usher thee anew.
	And angel records show thy works all true!

Rich in those gifts which hold sublimest worth,
	So wast thou formed; thy wealth thou didst increase,
Nor lost one gem, nor caught one taint from earth;
	Onward, thy passport leads, to glorious peace,
	Where love and joy and good works never cease.

Shall we, who loved thee here, e’er love thee less?
	Mother and friend, and sister choice and rare!
Israel’s first songstress, Zion’s poetess!
	Thou answerest—"Follow on—My glories share;
	Heaven hath room for all—Oh, join me there!”
										LULA.
December, 1887.


MEMORIES.

		When work is done,
The dreary monotone of each long day
Is past, and lamplight casts its sickly ray
	 	O’er my lone room,

		With hand-propped head 
I sit and gaze within the dim recess 
Of an old desk; and gazing thus, I bless
		The treasures there.

		My dreaming eyes
Behold the tracings of a writing quaint
On scrolls about whose folds a perfume faint
		Doth linger still—

		The working hands,
Now coldly locked in Death's chill clasp,
That once response had given to my warm grasp
		And cheered my soul—

		Outpourings they
Of a young soul as pure as light,
That lov’d me well, but took an earthly flight
		To Heav'n’s bright shrine:

		And visions come	
Before my strained tear-dimmed sight
And bring again that face so fair and bright
		That once was mine.

		O wells of light—
Those eyes where love and mirth combine—
Loved hair, that clusters like a clinging vine
		Upon that brow !

		O sunset flush
Of those soft, tender lineless cheeks!
Of laughing mouth, that surely to me speaks
		And bids me smile !

		O impulse wild,
That makes me try to meet it with a kiss
And thus dispels the vision and the bliss,
		Of my fond dream !

		How fast they fade!
Eyes, cheek, lips—all are fled
Of that dear face, and in their radiant stead
		Are relics pale.

		One tress have I
Of that abundant, softly-curling hair,
A score of letters and a rose once fair,
		Now scentless, dry,

		I bow my head,
And tears fall on that withered spray,
Where once the morning dewdrops brightly lay,
		In vain regret.
								GIPSEY.


LETTER.
		MARION, Cassia Co., Idaho,
					January 16, 1888.

MY DARLING LULA:
	Your holiday letter, with kind tokens of re-
membrance, was thankfully received. It is
sweet to be tenderly and thoughtfully remem-
bered by those we love. Especially do I regard
the affection of my dear children as precious
beyond measure. And that they love and fear
the Lord is a most comforting thought to
me. 
	Yesterday, I believe, was about as cold a day
as I ever experienced. I could not keep warm
close to the fire with all the wraps I could get
on. To day is not quite so cold. So far, this
winter, my health has been very good for me.
	The news of the death of our beloved Presi-
dent, Sister E. R. S. Smith, was quite a shock
to me, notwithstanding her advanced age and
the fact that her health had been delicate so
much of the time during the past year. It
seems lonely to think that she has really passed
beyond this vail of mortality, and that we shall
see her no more this side. How many of our
loved ones have departed, and how little we
know who, or how many, may be called hence
in the year just opening. It surely stands us
all in hand to be ready at any time. 	
	Reading in the Deseret News of the awful
depravity of some of the young boys in your
city, makes me fairly shudder. Oh! my
daughter, let nothing hinder your at-
tention to your little boys. Do not forget that
now, while they are so young and close around
you, is the time to impress them with all good
and noble sentiments and desires; the value of
truth, honesty and virtue, the importance of
being industrious, prayerful and generous, and
all these beautiful qualities which combine to
make up a pure and excellent character.
	If parents would only put these matters in
their proper place, far ahead of gaining
worldly wealth and all things that perish with
the using, would so many reckless young peo-
ple be found in Zion? It seems to me there
would not.True, even then some might go astray,
but I think not so many.
	I came across one of your old poems among
my letters the other day, which I will send you,
as I do not think you kept a copy of it. It has
no title. Here it is:
		"Truth will triumph I never fear,
			Ye who battle for the right;
		Be in earnest, be sincere,
			Pray and work with all your might.

		Should you once mistake your part,
			Humbly bear all just reproof;
		Cleanse and purify your heart,
			From all baseness stand aloof.

		Help your brother on the road,
			Think not of yourself alone;
		Aid him with his heavy load,
			Guard his honor as your own.

		Be prepared for deadly strife.
			Virtue to the death defend!
		Thy reward eternal life—
			Truth will triumph in the end!"

	When you see Sisters Presendia and Zina re-
member me to them with much love; also all the
other dear sisters who are laboring for the wel-

[Column 2]
fare of the work of God. Tell Sister Wells
that I very much appreciate the EXPONENT,
and ask her to please change my address to
Marion.
	With fervent prayers for you all, I remain,
			Your loving mother,
						S. K. GREENE.


ITEMS FROM ARIZONA.
DEAR EDITOR:
	Once more I have taken up my pen to give
your readers a few items from this far off place.
The pleasant weather of autumn is past, and
winter, grim and cold, is with us, and it has
been bitter cold for this usually mild climate.
The merry holidays are gone again, and little
folks started to school. We are so far from
friends and relatives, and yet dear old Santa
Claus has remembered us, and if his gifts were
small, they filled many a little heart with joy
and gratitude. The precious letters he brought,
all full of comfort and cheer, did so much to-
ward lifting us above "life's dreary cares;" such
letters are like the visitations of angels to me.
	Our numbers are so few here at the present
time, that our usual sisters' meetings have not
been held. Our Primary has lately been
organized, and we hope the others will soon be
in order again; but as there is seldom more than
three or four sisters here at a time, little can
be accomplished. I believe all are interested
deeply in such organizations, and will most
gladly hail the day when our numbers will
give promise of success in this direction.
	Our Indian neighbors are still quite friendly;
I had hoped, ere this, to have gleaned some-
thing which I could feel would be of interest
to your many readers about this people called
Navajoes, though it may not be out of place to
mention some of their strange customs.
	From a missionary I learned that a son-in-
law and mother never look at each other after
his marriage to her daughter, lest he or she
should immediately be struck with blindness.
It is said the mother may still cling to the
daughter with the same devotion as previous
to her marriage, and live for years almost with
her, and yet with this strange idea, she will not
even dare to let her eyes turn for a moment on
the husband of her child, nor will he presume
to glance at her. They are a very superstitious
people in every way, and when any are sick it
is often thought that an enemy has caused it
by casting some evil spell on the afflicted one.
Then they have their great "medicine men," to
whom they give all their houses and sheep fre-
quently, with the hope of having this dreaded
spell broken. Those who have learned some
of the beautiful truths which the Gospel teaches
are full of faith and have perfect confidence
that their sick will be healed through the ad-
ministration by the Elders of the Church, and
where this implicit faith is continued, the bless-
ing, and often the entire healing, is realized.
Our brethren have endeavored to convince
them that it is not the power of man that
brings about this cure, but it is to God, their
Heavenly Father, whom their praise and
thanks are due. They will often come with a
sick babe and ask for a little oil to rub on some
afflicted part, saying they know it will make it
well at once. There have been some very re-
markable cases of healing, and this has a ten-
dency to increase their faith.
	(Not many months ago an old chief's daughter


was taken ill so suddenly that her friends feared
she would die before relief could be found.
Her father was then living about two or three
miles from a little settlement of the Saints in
Arizona; she requested her father to go at once
and bring some of the brethren, that they
might make her well.  He came at once, beg-
ging for them to make haste, saying his child
must die if they did not come.  They found
her quite as ill as represented, and administered
with the desired effect.  This was early Sunday
morning, and at two o'clock the same day the
whole party, including the girl who had been
sick, rode down horseback to attend the meet-
ing, all rejoicing in the blessings they had re-
ceived.
	When we first came to this country, some
ten years ago, we became acquainted with an
Indian who had been several years before
shot, and the ball was still remaining in his leg.
He was a great sufferer, and had become re-
duced to a perfect skeleton.  His family had
had large flocks of sheep and many horses all
of which had been spent during the years of
his sickness, and still no relief came.  He had
heard the Gospel and been baptized about a
year previous to our arrival but through the 
influence of his many friends and their old
traditions, still clung to their foolish notions
doctoring their sick, but when everything was
exhausted and he was still a hopeless cripple
suffering at times intensely, he became willing
to trust himself entirely in the hands of the
brethren and do as they advised.  They found
a kind sister, who was a good nurse and full
of faith, and with the free use of oil and some
mild poultice, and keeping the wound
thoroughly cleansed, the ball was soon removed
and he was gradually restored to almost perfect
health, and when I met him a few years after
I was astonished and could not recognize him
as the poor wretched being I had first known.
	It is quite a curiosity to see the women at
work weaving some of the pretty blankets they
make.  White women would scorn to use such
a rude loom and the many little bits of wood
with the fancy colored yarn wound on them.
The designs are very pretty and so evenly ar-
ranged it seems almost incredible that such
work can be done with so little to work with.
As among all uncivilized races, the women do
most of the hard work.
	The husband and wife keep their property
separate, and in all their buying and selling
each attends to his or her business independent
of the other, and at the death of either party,
the brothers and sisters claim the property, not
the husband, children or wife, as the case may
be.  When the young man is desiring to marry,
he must show that he has something to give
for his bride, for a mother never allows her
daughter to be taken without a certain amount
of horses given in return, and if the young
woman is not pleased with her newly found
husband she can desert him at once, but he
cannot recover any of the means given in ex-
change; but, if she ever marries again,  her
mother will exact a smaller amount than at
first demanded.
	Well, I have written more than I at first in-
tended, but trust it will not be out of place.
Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I remain,
			Your sister,
				MARY S. BURNHAM.
San Juan, N. M., Jan. 10, 1888.


WOMAN’S  EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S VOICE.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
   DEAR SISTER WELLS:—In reading down the
columns of the EXPONENT, I often wonder
why there is nothing said about Plain City?
We have been noticed throughout the country
for our fine fruits and vegetables, and our 
pleasant location.


We have been organized in a Relief Society
twenty years; myself, with many others, have
plodded along, meeting with many scenes of
pleasure, and some not so pleasant.  We have
had the counsels of our late President, L. W.
Shurtliff, and not only his counsels, but his
presence at our meetings; also that of his Coun
selors.  His fatherly care and teachings are
not forgotten, and while we appreciate his
counsels, we do not forget those of our present
Bishop, Geo. W. Bramwell; although his time
seems more taken up with other duties, yet we
feel we have his support.  Our President,Sister
Almira Raymond, received her appointment as
President of the Relief Society in its first or-
ganization, and is still firm in her trust, backed
by her Counselors, and the sisters and teachers; 
yet with all, she has a variety of feelings and 
minds to please.  I am, however, thankful to
say she is endeavoring to do her duty in a mild
and gentle manner.
	Sister Raymond is a noble-minded woman,
and her desires are to teach others nobility of
character, and to emulate the examples of the 
noble and virtuous.  We are not alone in the
enterprise of human intelligence in this place,
for we have the Young Ladies' Association,
guided by a very noble woman, Sister Jane
Thomas, with her Counselors.  They hold their
meetings every week, and are in a healthy con-
dition.  We have also the Primary, and their 
President, Sister Susannah Robinson, with her
germs of man and womanhood, endeavoring to
train them in the paths of loveliness and virtue.
She merits great praise for her labors
	We are now through with the holidays, and
are taking up our knitting and domestic labors
as usual, and sitting down to a quiet life again.
We number over one hundred in our Society,
and have an average attendance at our meeting
of about thirty.  Oh, by the bye, I had almost
forgotten to mention, we are talking of having a
party to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of
our organization, and if we have the party, we
shall have to unite with our boys—whom we
have lived with for the last half century or
more—to help us out with the programme, as
we cannot well do without them.
	Dear Editor, I am something like Blenda
Bluegrass, it is getting so near dinner time I
must stop writing for the present, remaining,
		Your sister in the Gospel,
						ANNIE NEAL.
Plain City, Jan. 27, 1888.


CONJOINT MEETING AND PARTY.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The two branches of the Relief Society of
this city met conjointly in the Society Hall,
Thursday, Jan. 5, 1888, to celebrate their first
anniversary, being one year since the division
of the former Society.  The Secretaries read
an account of the receipts and disbursements
of their respective wards; also the means re-
maining in the treasuries, which show these
organizations to be in a thrifty, prosperous
condition.
	Encouraging and appreciative remarks were
made by Prest R. W. Tyler, Stake Prest. L.
Houd, Stake Counselors E. J. Bennet and
Laura Skinner, Bishops C. D. White and J. H.
Smith, Counselors Thos. Parkinson and Wm. 
Robinson, and Patriarch D. Tyler.
	A picnic party was also given in the evening
in the People's Hall, for the members, which 
was a very enjoyable affair.  The pleasant
countenances and cheerful voices of those pres-
ent betokened that all were enjoying themselves
to their utmost capacity.  An occasional speech,
song, essay and recitation intermixed with the
dancing was duly appreciated.  We would 
make special mention of the essay by Sister
Julia P. M. Farnsworth, which showed the 
lady to be highly gifted in the line of composi-


tion.  Bro. Hill, photographer, rendered a
recitation from the writings of our highly
esteemed and departed sister, E. R. Snow Smith,
in a very creditable manner.
	After participating in the dance until all 
were satisfied, the party was dismissed (as it
had been opened), by prayer, when all dis-
persed to their homes, feeling that this had
truly been a happy reunion.
	Notwithstanding the weather was very cold
and blustering, there was a very creditable
attendance, both at the meeting in the afternoon
and the party in the evening.
					ALICE M. TANNER
			Sec. First Ward Relief Society.
	Beaver City, U. T., Jan. 17, 1888.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Henry Ward Beecher has given the
Soldiers’ Home at Leavenworth 2,000 books
from her husband's library.
	Mme. Janauschek, the actress, has been
awarded $12,000 damages for injuries received
by falling down stairs last year at an hotel in 
Newport, R I., which compelled her to cancel
all her engagements and disband her company.
The corridor of the hotel, it seems, was not
lighted, and Mme. Janauschek fell to the bot-
tom of the stairway and broke her right
wrist.
	Mrs. Eliza Garfield, the late President's
mother, who has just died at Mentor, O., aged
eighty-six, was born in New Hampshire, and
moved to Ohio with her husband in 1830. A
log cabin was built and a farm partly cleared;
but her husband soon died, and Mrs. Garfield
was left to struggle with many difficulties. She
faced them heroically, refused to send her elder
children out to work among the neighboring 
settlers, toiled with her own hands to keep them
together under her own eye, and from her they
received the first rudiments of an education.—
Ex.
	The Jubilee Memorial to the Queen in favor
of stopping the sale of liquor on Sunday has
only just been handed in.  It was signed by
1,132,608 women, and is said to be the largest
ever presented. Among the ladies who 
waited on the Home Secretary with it were
John Bright's sister, Mrs. Bright Lucas, Presi-
dent of the British Women's Temperance
Association, aud Mrs. Temple; the Bishop of 
London. They mentioned the significant fact
that in one small town, where there were forty-
two liquor-sellers, the wives of all but four had
signed the memorial.
	In the spring of 1860 Mr. Trollope became
acquainted with George Eliot and G. H. Lewes.
His impressions of the former are given in the
following passage of his "Reminiscences:" "She 
has been compared to the portraits of Savon-
arola (who was frightful), and of Dante (who
though stern and bitter looking, was handsome).
Something there was of both faces in George
Eliot's physiognomy.  Lewes told us, in her
presence, of the exclamation uttered suddenly
by some one to whom she was suddenly pointed
out at a place of public entertainment—I be-
lieve it was at a Monday popular concert in St.
James’ hall. 'That,' said a bystander, 'is George
Eliot.' The gentleman to whom she was thus
indicated gave one swift, searching look, and
exclaimed, sotto voce, 'Dante's aunt!' Lewes
thought this happy, and he recognized the kind
of likeness that was meant to the great singer of
the ‘Divine Comedy.’ She, herself, playfully
disclaimed any resemblance to Savonarola.
But, although such resemblance was very dis-
tant—Savonarola’s peculiarly unbalanced coun-
tenance being a strong caricature of hers—some
likeness there was.  Her speaking voice was, I 
think, one of the most beautiful I ever heard,
and she used it conscientiously, if I may say
so."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ALONE.
We live alone, where'er our lot is cast,
	Bent down with care, or raised by Pride on high;
Alone we pass our lives, and at the last
	Alone we have to die.
The gifts of earth may bless our earthly lot,
	The joys of faithful love may be our own,
We count up friendships; but it matters not-
	The soul is yet alone.

The bounteous promise of the years to be
	Fills our glad youth with visions of delight;
This is the Paradise of Hope, and we
	Rejoice whilst all is bright.
But, even when dear hands are clasping ours,
	We are alike "unknowing and unknown,"
For no two souls contend with equal pow'rs,
	Each bears his cross alone.

We choose our paths through Life's turmoil and din-
	Some kindred spirits will be surely nigh?
But each one for himself desires to win
	That rest for which we sigh.
Alone in solitude, or crowds no less,
	No heart we meet is moulded like our own-
Who is there hath not felt the bitterness
	Of dwelling thus alone?

One in a crowd of ever-restless souls,
	One in a multitude that heeds us not,
"Each for himself," while hidden force controls
	Each changing  human lot.
Drifting afar upon a troubled sea
	Whose boundless waters ever beat and moan
On the dim shores of vast eternity,
	We reach that port alone;

And then set free, exalted and refined,
	Through higher circles shall our being range,
Beyond all misconstruction of our kind,
	Beyond all fear of change.
In sweet companionship for ever given
	Of happy souls once burdened like our own,
Yes, it must be the "perfect joy" of Heaven
	To feel no more alone!
							-Family Herald.


[scribbled on side:
Annie E. Cannon]

	AUNT JERUSHA ATTENDS A
		COOKING SCHOOL.
	In their great anxiety to start Aunt Jerusha
home, her nieces forgot to enclose in her travel-
ing bag the cook book they had promised her.
Such an omission, though very trivial to them,
was of more importance to their aunt, for she
had promised herself the rare treat on the way
home of "inspectin the thing and enjoy in it."
And so, when fairly seated in the cars and
awaiting the start, she began searching for
the book, and found it missing, what should she
do but gather up her traps and return to town,
reasoning to herself as she walked along in the
following manner:
	"It don’t make much difference, no how, fur
my ticket’s good fur two weeks, and this is only
the ninth day sence I left, and no one’s ex-
pectin me, and James is as good in the house ter
look after things as an ole woman; and I guess
sister and them girls will be mighty glad ter
see me comin back if it is only fur a day more.
I declar, at first I didn’t like them girls much,
I thought them so proud; but the way they
worked fur me the last two days wuz just as-
tonishin, and no wonder, with so much agoin
on, they furgot that thar book; I pretty nigh
furgot my specs and several things in the hurry
of gettin off.”		
	The consternation of the girls, when Aunt
Jerusha entered the house and carefully laid
down her traps, and proceeded to take off her
bonnet and shawl, can scarcely be described.
	“Why, Aunty,” they cried out, “what’s the
matter? You surely were in plenty of time?
Has anything happened?”
	"Nothin;” Aunt Jerusha cooly replied, seat-
ing herself and smoothing out her dress,
“nothin has happened, only you furgot ter put

[Column Two]

that cook book of yourn in the bag, and as I
aint in no particular hurry to git home, I jest
thot I’d come back and git it, and spend another
day with you, as thar’s no knowin when I’ll
git to cum agin. Whar’s your mother?”
	“Oh, she’s gone to the Club, and we are
going to the Cooking School, so you will have
the house all to yourself, and can read the book
all you please.” This pert little speech might
have offended Aunt Jerusha had she been any
other than the dear old common sense woman
that she was, but she very properly refused to
notice any insolence in her young nieces, “con-
siderin,” as she herself honestly states it, “their
age and breedin,” and answered them in a still
more astonishing manner, by announcing her
willingness to accompany them to the school:
	“I allus have thot, ever sence you fust spoke
of that school, that I’d like ter go along once
and see what it wuz like, and now’s a right
splendid chance, so hustle along, girls, and git
your things on and let’s be off.” 	
	There was no alternative; Mina tried to get
out of going, but her sister could not have the
whole burden of taking Aunt Jerusha among
their fashionable friends placed on her, so they
resolved to endure it together, consoling them-
selves with the thought that they were a little
late, and as order would be called, and all in-
tent on the cooking lesson, there would be no
chance for talking; but the place has not yet
been found where Aunt Jerusha did not find a
chance to talk and make the best of it, too.
On entering the room among the ladies of ton,
with their stylish and extravagant costumes
partially concealed behind a large new kitchen
apron, with book and pencil in hand and eyes
watching the master, with his large white cap
and long apron, his sleeves partly rolled up,
and his hands holding out a pound of butter,
Aunt Jerusha made a low curtsy, and having
said “how dye” in a voice loud enough to be
heard by all, turned to the white robed man
and said:	
	"I hope, mister, I aint intrudin, but my
nieces here has talked so much about this here
school, that as I wuz stayin in town another
day, havin furgot the Cook Book they gin me,
and cum back fur it, I jest thot I’d cum along
with em ter-day and see whut kind of a cook
you wuz; you know I kinder pride myself on
my housekeepin and cookin, and if a man kin
beat a woman like me a cookin I’d jest like ter
make that man’s acquaintance.”
	After this neat little introduction, Aunt
Jerusha sat down, quite pleased with herself;
but her nieces, perceiving the suppressed smiles
on the assembled faces, and noticing the whis-
pers passing around, were anything but pleased,
and would have given the world if they had
remained away, but they whispered to their
Aunt not to say anything more, as all talk on
anything but the lesson subject was out of order.
"Sakes alive, children,” she replied, in a loud
and audible whisper, “you don’t think I cum
here ter talk and show off my knowledge, do
yer? Course not; I want ter see how much the
man does know.”
	Silence being now obtained from Aunt
Jerusha’s corner, the master proceeded thus
with the lesson: “Ladies, we will to day take
puff paste. First write down the recipe in your
note books. One pound of flour; one pound of
butter, wash the butter free from salt and work
it to a roll as soft as your dough will be, mix
with your flour an ounce of the butter, then
pour on enough water to mix up to the proper
thickness.” As the teacher dictated the recipe
he proceeded with the mixing of the dough
and Aunt Jerusha rose from her seat when the
water was poured among the flour on the
board, fully expecting it to run on the floor.
"I say, mister, don't you mix your dough in a
pan?” “No, madam, I never use a pan for pie
crust.” “Wal, I declar, ef thet don’t beat me
how yer keep your floor clean, but mebbe yer

[Column Three]

don’t hev ter scrub it yourself, so don’t care
how much mus yer make; I guess the women
does the scrubbin and cleanin up while you
cook and do sech things.” A frown from
the teacher, a smile from the pupils and a
sigh from the nieces followed this tart remark,
when the master proceeded; “work the dough,
or cloth, as we term it, up smoothly, then roll
out on the board to the thinness of an inch,
spread the butter over three fourths of the 
cloth, leaving one fourth clean; when smoothly
spread lay the clean part over the butter, then
bring the lower part up over, and proceed to
roll. Roll out two or three times lightly, then
fold in a small roll, lay a tea towel over and
place in the larder or some cool place for fifteen
or twenty minutes.” The master then pro-
ceeded to prepare some oysters, giving the fol-
lowing recipe: “Beard the oysters and if large
halve them; put them into a saucepan with a
piece of butter rolled in flour, some finely
shred lemon rind, a little white pepper and
milk, and a portion of the liquor from the fish;
stir all well together, let it simmer for a few
minutes, it is then ready for your patty tins,
which shall be shortly prepared with the puff 
paste.”	
	Aunt Jerusha sat quite speechless during
this part of the lesson, much to the gratifica-
tion of her nieces, who dreaded any pause
in the lesson for fear she would again say some-
thing to annoy the teacher. He again took
out the paste and rolled it as before, calling
this the second roll, and again placed it away, 
in the wait preparing fruit for the pies; this
was done twice more, making four rolls in all,
and then the tins were covered with the paste,
the oysters and fruit put in, and the covers
placed over, and all put in the oven; in a few 
minutes they came out, a light brown, and five
times the size they were when placed in—the
oyster patties.	
	Well, Aunt Jerusha never saw such flakey, 
light pie crust; she rose from her seat in delight;
and said, “I ax yer pardon, mister, and declar
ter goodness I never before see the like of that;
ef rollin and waitin four times'll make dough
cum up that way, I think I’ll try myself. We
only take, to home, a pound of flour and mix
about a quarter of a pound of lard in it, and 
mix it with nice cold water, and roll it out and
spread about as much butter as lard, and fold
it over and roll it in, and fold, and then that’s
about all, and it’s pretty good pie crust, too,
but nothin like yourn.”	
	“Yes, madam, that is a very good recipe for
short paste, and is much used for ordinary
cooking,” replied the master. “Now, ladies,
you have three recipes: Puff Paste, Short Paste
and Oyster Patties, and that is quite sufficient
for one lesson.”
	The girls didn’t mind this last speech of their
Aunt’s much, as it showed her knowledge some,
and hurried the lesson along instead of retard-
ing it, but they hurried her home for all that,
and she was more than willing to go, for she 
wanted to try immediately, before forgetting
the recipe, the making of Puff Paste, and she
did make it, and succeeded beautifully, so that
the girls and their parents had some fine pies
for supper, and did not regret that evening
that Aunt Jerusha returned and accompanied
them to the Cooking School.		A. W. C


Prof. Maria Mitchell ranks with Caroline
Herschell, these two being the most distin-
guished of women astronomers.  Miss Herschell
announced the last of the eight comets dis-
covered by her in 1795, and the next comet
discovered by a woman was seen by Maria
Mitchell in 1847.  Prof. Mitchell's original in-
vestigations and observations have included
valuable examinations of the nebulae, and much
work connected with the coast survey and the
compilation of the Nautical Almanac.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,		-		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah   Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00.  Ten
copies for the price of nine.	
	Advertising rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount
to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office.  Business hours from 10 a.m
to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
			PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY.  UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	FEBRUARY 1, 1888.


﻿A VICTORY FOR WOMEN.
	The women of Washington Territory are rejoic-
ing in full suffrage, given them by law, and the bill
granting it signed by Governor Semple on the
19th of January 1888.  This makes three times
that the Legislature of that Territory have voted
for Woman Suffrage.  First passed a law in 1883,
and the women voted under it.  Governor Squire
of that Territory, in 1884 said of the law in his
report to the Secretary of the Interior.
	"It meets with the approval of a large majority
of the people and the women of the territory are
for the most part, strongly desirous that the
enactmeut be retained upon our Statute books."
	Republicans and Democrats inserted in their
platforms the declaration, that "the elective fran-
chise should not be denied to any citizen on ac-
count of sex."  The Democratic platform "re-
commended that women should be released
from compulsory jury duty."
	In 1885 the Legislature reaffirmed the law, and
"the women voted in increasing numbers."
	In February 1886, after the women had voted
three years and a half, the Supreme Court of that
Territory pronounced the law invalid, on the
ground that the nature of the bill must be des-
cribed in the title, and that the women suffrage
bill had been headed only,—"An Act to Amend
Section—Art—,"instead of "An Act to Enfran-
chise Women."  The Legislature has now given
to this law an explicit title.
	The new law states that, "women are exempted
from jury duty."  This may or may not mean that
they are ineligible, according to the interpretation
given to the law.  While permitted to serve as
jurors it is said they gave complete satisfaction
being "both competent and conscientious."  In
Wyoming the same testimony has been given over
and over.
	Governor Ames of Massachusetts, and Gover-
nor Larrabee of Iowa, have both recommended
municipal suffrage for women in their inaugural
addresses this year.  This is a fact worthy of re-
cord.  A municipal woman suffrage bill has been
introduced into both Houses of the New York
Legislature.
	In Mexico women are making great progress
though it is such a conservative country, and
where women are coming to the front in medicine
and surgery and in the literary field, it proves that
the spirit of woman's advancement is abroad in
the world, and the good seed sown among many na-
tions is beginning to spring up, and we doubt not
will bear both blossom and fruit in "the good time
coming."
	Meanwhile patience is a virtue that must be
cultivated by some, at least, for here in Utah where
women had voted for seventeen years with the
best possible results, forsooth all at once "by
one fell blow" the axe descends; the law which
had been passed, the bill with a complete heading
that had been signed and sealed according to
Territorial Statutes, was annulled, and without re-
dress or process of law of any kind, the ballot in the


hands of the women of Utah is rendered null and
void. And why? Echo answers,” “Why!” There
is no good or valid reason. There may have been
a political reason known to those who were in-
strumental in making the demand or request, but
by what right, except that “might is right,” we
fail to comprehend. But the object sought by
those who anticipated place and power by these
small means,has not been attained and never will be
It was most illiberal and unjust to lake from the
women of Utah this right to self-protection, and
it will never further the ends which it was de-
signed to compass. When Utah becomes a
State, with all the freedom that Statehood implies,
the Legislature will, no doubt,confer upon women
equal political rights and privileges of citizenship.


A DELIGHTFUL GATHERING.

	About thirty ladies assembled in the parlors of
Mrs. Phebe Y. Beattie, on Tuesday, Jan. 31st, to
celebrate the anniversary of the birthday of Mrs.
Zina D. H. Young, familiarly known as Aunt Zina
throughout these valleys of the mountains. Sister
Young was born in 1821, and has reached the age 
of 67 years. Many loving tributes were paid to
her by those present, almost every one speaking
in glowing terms of her genuine worth and good-
ness of heart. It was also the anniversary of the
birth of another of the pioneer women of Zion--
Mrs. Jane S. Richards—and one, who among the
sick, the desolate, the afflicted and the sorrowful,
has also been a helper and comforter in both
words and deeds.
	After some hours spent in genial conversation,
delicious refreshments were handsomely served to
the invited guests of the day, and the hostess,
Mrs. Beattie, in a very pleasing manner, alluded
to the happy occasion that had brought together
so many dear friends, and nominated "Aunt
Presendia" the elder sister of the honored one as
Chairman of an informal meeting, which was
agreed to by all present. Sister P. L. Kimball
graciously accepted the honor conferred, and gave
out the hymn, "O, my Father," etc, Prayer was
offered by Sister M. I. Horne.
	Aunt Presendia spoke in terms of admiration of
her sister Zina; thought it would be impossible to
say too much for her; also alluded to the women
of this Church who had borne the heat and bur-
den of the day and proved faithful—Mother
Whitney, Sister Eliza, Sister Marinda Hyde and
others. Referred to her labors with them; felt to
bless the wives of Joseph Smith the Prophet, who 
were now living; loved and honored them.
	Aunt Zina appreciated all the loving tributes, etc.
Desired to live worthily, and to do good in her
day, and be a blessing to her associates.
	Sister R. R. Grant spoke eloquently of Aunt
Zina, Mother Whitney and Sister Eliza, and al-
luded to refreshing seasons in the past; enjoyed
the society of the sisters and the spirit and influ-
ence that prevailed when all were united as on the
present occasion.
	Sister Emily D. P. Young expressed herself
strong in the faith of the Gospel, and not dis-
couraged with trials; had seen many changes;
knew the principles taught by Joseph Smith were
eternal, and exhorted all to prove faithful.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. J. Stevenson, S. M.
Kimball, M. Burnham, B. W. Smith, E. B. Wells,
E.R. Shipp, M. D., M. A. Freeze, F. Y. Thatcher,
P. Y. Beattie, M. C. Shipp, M. D., Julia C. Howe,
C. Horrocks, L. D. Alder, Ann Groesbeck, M. 
Y. Dougal, Etta Ellerbeck, Annie Watson and M.
I. Horne each made brief congratulatory ad-
dresses, and mentioned every good thing possible.
The absent ones were not forgotten, those who
had proved their integrity unto the end and
passed away from our sight, and the fervent wish
was expressed that all present might prove worthy
and attain to the same exaltation, and be associa-

[Column 2]
ted in the eternal worlds. The gift of tongues
was manifest in blessing, and interpretations were
given, and it was a time of refreshing from on
high. Singing, "The Spirit of God," etc., and a 
benediction was pronounced, and the sisters dis-
persed, feeling comforted and strengthened by the
loving words and the outpourings of the Holy
Spirit.
	Sisters Jane S. Richards and Minerva W. Snow
left the company before the meeting commenced,
as duty called them in another direction.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT extends heartfelt
congratulations to Sister Zina D. H. Young and
Sister Jane S. Richards on having attained to the
three score and more years, and wishes for each
of them length of days, prosperity, honors, and
that experience that will fit and prepare them for
celestial glory and happiness in the great here-
after.


A BOUQUET.

	My subject matter is a Bouquet, or collection of
words, which should become a part of the study
and the attributes of a child, as they develop into
manhood or womanhood. They are, viz.: Stamina,
Habit, Order, Obedience and Harmony.
				STAMINA.
	To write an article for the paper requires some
stamina, and to read an article to an audience re-
quires more stamina. To deny ourselves o
pleasure, to fulfill a promise, requires stamina. To
do just right, when very much tempted to do wrong,
requires stamina. To get up early on a very cold
frosty morning to perform duties, requires stamina,
and when a youth is desirous of qualifying himself
or herself, for any noble purpose or position, to
accomplish it will require a great deal of stamina.
Sometimes, when temptations beset us, to say the
little word no! with emphasis, when we would very
much like to say yes, requires stamina. Well,
what do I meam by stamina?
	A fixed, determined purpose (not stubbornness),
unmoved, unshaken, possessing a support, a
strength, a solidity. Some people are like a piece
of cloth, that is deficient both in warp and woof,
they have no stamina. George Washington, when
asked by his father, "Who cut down the cherry
tree?" possessed sufficient stamina to say, "I cut
down the tree, father; I cannot tell a lie!"
	Now, let us stick to our text all through life, and
let our works show that we have the stamina that
characterized a Napoleon Bonaparte, when he
wanted his troops to ascend the Alps, and they
had halted at difficulties; he says, "On! on! my
brave boys."
	If your head pains you and your lessons are
tedious, sleep, and try again, and you will be
astonished to see how the brain has awakened by
rest and sleep. You should seldom stop at obsta-
cles, but strive to surmount them, and prove
thereby that you possess some stamina. If you
have not succeeded your effort will have given you
a degree of experience, and by it a strength that
will aid you in another encounter, perhaps more
difficult, which you could not have accomplished
had it not been for the previous learned lesson.
Like the tree, with every additional blast and
bluster the roots reach out and cling closer to their
mother earth, and the tree still grows lofty and
majestically and over-looks the earth beneath.
Now, by your stamina  and magnanimous course
you have attained to the stature of manhood and
womanhood; you now are able to bless the rod by
which you were chided, and kiss the chastening
hand.
				HABIT.
	What can we say of it? Like unto stamina, if
possessed, it also is as important a trait of charac-
ter. If a person becomes accustomed to eat just
such a time of day, or just such an hour each day,


the system calls for it and craves it; just so in re-
gard to sleep; if accustomed to retire at 7, 8, or 9
o'clock in the evening, at that time the eyelids be
come heavy, and the head begins to nod.  Habit
will weave a chain around us for good or evil, that
will enslave or enrich us.  The man that has be-
come a slave to tobacco through habit, also auto-
matically, moves his hand into his pocket through 
habit.  The twig that is bent, and allowed to grow
thus, becomes fixed, and it is impossible to 
straighten it it; because it has been allowed its
habit. 
	A child that has been accustomed to allow their 
feet and hands upon other people's chairs, and 
their tongues to ejaculate oaths at the beginning 
and end of each sentence they speak, and to allow 
their face and hands and feet to be unwashed, 
have become accustomed to it, and their habit is
so fixed that awkwardness is no name for it, and a 
suitable name for them would be a "booby."  This 
is what habit has effected.  
				ORDER.
	This is another very important trait of character, 
when it is cultivated; and, having a place for 
everything, and putting things into it as they move
along; things also will apparently move into place, 
without any effort, because it has been their habit
or custom to do so, and finally disorder around 
them will be a source of annoyance, and good
order is not effected without more or less obedi-
ence.
				OBEDIENCE.
	If children are accustomed to obey their parents,
they finally move automatically, without an oppo-
site will in the mother, and it is not painful to them;
but if accustomed to question the motive each 
time, and stop to oppose, they will always be at
unrest, or, in other words, in hot water; yes, even
boiling.
	Now, what does the cultivation of these traits or 
attributes do for us?
	They qualify and help us to harmonize with
others and our surroundings.  
				HARMONY
	Is the last of our group, but none the less im-
portant, and should have a place in our collection.
In music it is an important element, and quite as
essential in the family group or circle.  Each
member of the family should harmonize with the
other, then there is no family discord.
	In arranging a bouquet, colors should harmonize.
We have what we call complementary colors; that 
is, that contrast with each other, yet they are
those that harmonize.  It is so with individuals;
they may be unlike each other, having their own
individuality, but still harmonize.  This cultivation
makes good citizens and Saints.  
	I have now collected and treated upon a group
of words, and I have so arranged them in my
bouquet that they harmonize, and if they are a 
part of the attributes of an individual, we find in 
them germs that will adorn them and fit them for
any society.  As we add to the bouquet additional
flowers, if in harmony, we beautify it, and if an
attribute is added to the individual, it is as season-
ing, spice, perfumery and luster to their existence, 
as so many additional stars to the constellation, 
which we admire because of their brilliancy and 
scintillations.  The result of the cultivation of 
these beautiful attributes will be length of days,
peace and heaven.
					DR. E. S. BARNEY.
	Written for the M. I. A. Paper of the 13th Ward,
S. L. City.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ANNIVERSARY. 

	Minutes of the annual meeting of the Y. L. M.
I. Association of the 17th Ward, held at the resi-
dence of Mrs. Ettie Ellerbeck, Jan. 25,1888, Prest.
J. C. Howe presiding.


Meeting opened by singing, “The Lord will
provide.” Prayer was offered by Sister Mary A.
Freeze. Continued by singing, “We’ll sing all
hail to Jesus’ name.” The roll call was omitted,
to save time. Minutes of the annual meeting of
1887 were read and accepted. The programme
consisted of sketches of the nations, as typified
by parts of the great image which Nebuchadnezzar
saw in a dream. The sketches were interspersed
with songs and music. Programme carried out as
follows: Reading, 2nd chapter of Daniel, Mamie
Leaver; Piano Music, Margie Dwyer; Sketch of
Bybylon, as typified by the head of gold, Emma
Ellerbeck; Song, Viola Pratt; Media and Persia,
typified by the breast and arms of silver, Allie
Merrill; Song, May Preston; Sketch of Mace-
donia, as typified by the belly and thighs of brass,
Lizzie Smith; Song, Maud Pratt; Sketch of Rome,
as typified by the legs of iron, Ella Dallas; Music,
Emma Ellerbeck; Essay on the ten toes of the
image, and the little stone cut from the mountain
without hands, Emma Finch; Song, Mrs. Louie
Felt and Lizzie Smith. This concluded the pro-
gramme. 
	The resignation of Mrs. Sadie Howe, as Third
Counselor in the Association, was offered and ac-
cepted. She was honorably released from this
position, being unable to attend to the duties of
the office on account of home duties.
	A motion was made and seconded that Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beattie act as Third Counselor to the
President of the Association; the motion was
carried by unanimous vote.
	The Association was then addressed by Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, M. I. Horne, Presendia Kim-
ball, Sarah M. Kimball, E. S. Taylor, Mary A.
Freeze, B.W. Smith, E. B. Wells, Y. Dougal,
Dr. Maggie Shipp, Mary P. Young and Mattie H.
Tingey. Each expressed herself grateful for hav-
ing had the opportunity of being present. All
had enjoyed the exercises, and offered many en-
couraging and instructive remarks. Loving words
were spoken to the memory of Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith, who was present at the last annual
meeting. Each visitor asked God’s blessing upon
the President, her Counselors and the members of
the Association.
	Sister Presendia Kimball spoke in tongues; the
interpretation was given by Sister Zina D. H.
Young. Closing remarks were made by President
Howe. The programme for the regular meeting
of February 1st was read.
	The meeting adjourned for one year. Closed
by singing, “The Millennial Dawn.” Benedic-
tion by Dr. R. B. Pratt.
	At the close of the meeting all partook of sup-
per, prepared by the young ladies. A pleasant
time was enjoyed by all, for all felt that they had
enjoyed a feast temporally and spiritually.
						ELLA DALLAS, Sec.


MISSIONARY WORK.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	I wish to place before your readers a few inter-
esting remarks by Elder R. H. Ford, now on a
mission to England.
	He visited some distinguished gentleman and
ladies, who gladly heard the words of life and
salvation; amongst the number was Earl Russel,
to whom he paid a visit, and on leaving him he
thanked him much for his visit, and said he had
enjoyed it. He has had much persecution on ac-
count of the apostates, but is doing much good
in baptizing precious souls and administering to
the sick. I will give you a copy of a letter:
MY DEAR CHRISTY:
	In and as pertaining to mortality, and I am
sorry to say not in the Gospel, I thought at first I
would treat your cruel letter to me, which I re-
ceived a few days ago, with contempt, but you are

[column 2]
my own sister, and my duty to God and you de-
mands otherwise, hence this epistle.
	First; I married my wife honorably, after she
had been a widow twelve years. The Scrip-
tures say, “Let no man put away his wife save for
fornication,” and Mr. Jarman’s wife, who is now
my lawful wife, by the laws of God, and just laws
by an enlightened nation put him away, and freed
her from a wicked man, full of every vice and
wickedness, and now she knows the contrast be-
tween a good and bad husband, and that by a
God-given right to protect His daughters. You
have insulted a servant of God, and also the same
God that sent me to proclaim the glad tidings of
the restoration of the Gospel in all its primitive
glory, majesty, effulgence and grandeur and
spiritual gifts of the Holy Ghost, that the sheep
that know the Master’s voice may no longer be
driven away and about by every wind of false
doctrine of man and creeds, based on traditional
errors of an apostate church.
	You say that you do not believe in miracles, and
that your God is not a God of miracles; you have
told the truth in this, for your God is not a God of
miracles and power, but is as much a nonentity as
your senseless creed describes Him in the first
article of your faith, which says you “believe in a
God that has neither body, parts, nor passions."
What kind of a throne can hesit upon? Answer;
a topless throne. No right hand for Christ to sit
by, no finger to write on the tables of stone, no
body, in whose image Christ was the‘express
image, no mouth to speak, no attributes.
	Lucifer, the founder of all false creeds, who was
cast out of heaven with the one third that consti-
tute the spirits, Paul speaks of thus: “In the lat-
ter times or days many shall depart from the faith,
giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of
devils.” Lucifer represents that, being named in
the first article of your faith, being as cast out of
heaven and could not take a body, and he has
founded the great heap of teachers. Paul speaks
of having the form of godliness, and denying the
power thereof, as you do; ever learning, but never
able to come to a knowledge of the truth; preach-
ing for hire and divining for money, while I and
my brethren, the Elders of Israel,like the glorious
apostles of old, come forth without purse or scrip-
trusting in God, dropping our net like Peter of
old, suffering many privations for the love of souls.
If I was proclaiming to my nation a fabrication and a
lie,God would not answer my prayers as He does,
nor would He answer as He has done sacred
ordinances of His house, administered by my
hand as a legally and duly authorized Seventy and
Elder in Israel. I will cite you two instances out
of many, in all humility, and not boastfully. A
Sister Sims has a son of fourteen summers, he
had a violent attack of cholera-infantum, and was
suffering excruciating pains; I was led by the
Holy Ghost to call on her; she had sent for a doc-
tor, who had sent word that he could not come,
but would call in the morning. She, on my
arrival that evening, asked me, as an Elder in the
Church of Jesus Christ, to anoint him and pray
over him, and lay my hands on him, as recorded
in James, last chapter—it will do well for you to
read this. I anointed the boy and prayed over
him, and laid my hands on him, and in the name
of Jesus Christ, and by virtue and authority of the
holy priesthood in me vested, rebuked the disease
from his body, and blessed him with life and
health, and God stretched forth His holy arm and
healed him up, yea, raised him up. as recorded in
James, and word was sent to the doctor next morn-
ing not to come. You can write to Mrs. Thomas
Sims, and she will testify to you and give God the
glory for a restoration of the Gospel after a silence
of 1806 years, with all its gifts.
	A sister, a poor woman that I baptized on the
30th of September, 1887, who is truly born of the
water and Spirit—she had the same complaint that
the woman had who touched the hem of the


Savior's garment, whose legally authorized ser-
vant I am—and the doctor said he could not cure
her, but he could only in a measure help, by check-
ing the flow of blood she threw up so copiously 
every time she coughed, as well as other channels.
At her request I administered the holy ordinance
to her, and she has not taken any more doctor's
medicine, and has neither discharge, nor has she 
coughed up since, and is getting well fast, being
restored to health by the power of God, the God
of miracles, the Father of our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ, and my Father in Heaven and the
Father of you His rebellious daughter. He
or she that believeth and is baptized shall be saved.
but he or she that believeth not shall be damned. 
Read, Mark last chapter, 16th verse. You will
never see these things until you are born of the 
water and of the Spirit; God does not call licen-
tious men to the ministry, nor acknowledge their
administration.
	I am doing much good in the strength of the
Lord, building up the broken-hearted and setting
the captive free, sacrificing home and a loving
wife and comfort and friends. Send me back the
book I gave you, as you say when you die you do
not want to be contaminated with anything
belonging to a Latter-day Saint or Mormon. Well,
if you die with those sentiments you will have
your wish granted you, for there is only one place
you can go to and not be contaminated with the
presence of a Latter-day Saint, Mormon or
mighty Prophet; for when you knock at the gates
of heaven in vain for admittance, Brigham Young
will be there, and his wives and children. Isaiah
says, 4th chapter, 1st, 2nd and 3rd verses, "Seven
women shall take hold of one man, saying, we
will eat our own bread and wear our own apparel,
only let us be called by thy name to take away our
reproach And in that day shall the branch of
the Lord be beautiful and glorious." Is not Isaiah 
a holy prophet? Acts, 3rd chapter, 19th, 26th and 
21st verses, "And He shall send Jesus Christ,
whom the heavens must receive until the restora-
tion of all things which God has spoken by the
mouths of all His holy prophets since the world 
began." And Christ Jesus will not come to reign
until all these laws are restored again, and the
ordinances that an apostate church, a false
Christianity has done away with by their senseless
form; breaking the ordinances, changing the
everlasting covenant, denying the power of God
and teaching the people that God is not a God of
miracles.
	Now, the time is close at hand when the Jews
will all be gathered back to Jerusalem to witness
the second reckoning or advent of Christ and the
Ten Tribes from the north, and when He comes,
which will be soon, yea, as a thief in the night,
you will, if you do not speedily repent, be 
amongst the foolish virgins, with no oil in their
lamps, too late to borrow of the woman you desig-
nate as vile, and the man you are pleased to call 
such vile names, because he is not a salaried
minister preaching for hire.
	Say, do you expect to go where Jacob is, with
his four wives, Abraham, with his wives, who was 
a friend of God? Do you expect to enter the
gates of the New Jerusatem, when it comes down 
from God, on which are the names of twelve 
sons of Jacob by his four plural wives? God
will say to men that make kept-mistresses of
women instead of wives, and those that rebel
against the patriarchal order of marriage, "Get 
out, ye hypocrites, ye workers of iniquity, ye deny
the great order of procreation, that gave the noble
sires their bodies that surround my throne, and
whose names are written on the golden gates of
my holy city."
	I must now say good bye. Repent before it is
too late.
			Your sorrowful brother,
								R. W. F.


﻿WOMAN’S' EXPONENT.


NOTICE.

	The Relief Society Conference of the Sanpete
Stake will convene at Spring City, March 10, 1888.
Secretaries are requested to send in their reports
from the various settlements on or before March
I, and oblige,
			M. A. White, Stake Secretary.


[Column 1] 
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
	MARICOPA  STAKE.
	I herewith transmit a brief summary of our
conference, which was held Jan. 5th, 1888, in
the Mesa Hall, Prest. Elizabeth McDonald
presiding. Her Counselor, also a majority of
the Relief Society officers of the Stake present,
with a few brethren. After the usual prelimin-
aries of singing and prayer, and minutes read
of preceding conference, Prest. McDonald
made a few opening remarks, expressive of her
pleasure in again meeting with the sisters in
conference again. Had hoped we should have
had Prest. Horne with us at this time but cir-
cumstances were such that she was obliged to
return to Salt Lake before conference. Prest.
C. I. Robson and A. F. McDonald were neces-
sarily absent, which was quite a disappointment,
but hoped we should have a time of rejoicing
 together. Wished to hear reports of the differ-
ent branches, which was responded to by the
respective presidents in a very favorable man-
ner, showing that many of the sisters were
wide awake, and zealous in all the duties of
 their societies, while others were correspondingly
slack.
	Cheering and encouraging remarks were
made by a number of the sisters, especially by
Coun. Susan Savage, who represented the
Papage Ward, where herself and a number of
the sisters and brethren are laboring for the
benefit of the natives, and it is certainly re-
markable the progress they are making,
especially the younger portion of them, in their
studies, reading, music, etc., proving that the
blessing of the Lord is with them in their
labors.
	Prest. McDonald also spoke upon the same
subject; said we could act as missionaries, even
if it were not amongst them; many of the young
maidens were anxious to learn housekeeping; if 
some of the sisters could take them to their
homes and teach them housekeeping, the art of
cooking, etc., it would prove a great blessing to
them.
	Bro. Henry Rogers also spoke of this mission
as a very important one, and we were required 
to take an interest in it. Spoke favorably of
the labors the sisters had performed in this di-
rection; it certainly was very creditable to them.
Spoke of the outside element that was gather-
ing in our midst; felt to regret it. “Let us not
seek their society, only to do them good; treat
them courteously, but do not associate with
them.” Spoke upon many more important
principles pertaining to our religion, and of
the many errors we were liable to be led into,
without the spirit of God for a guide.
	Bro. Chas. Allen felt to bear testimony to
the good spirit which had prevailed in this
meeting; could fully endorse the remarks which
had been made, especially concerning those who
were not of our faith, who are gathering in our
midst. “Let us protect our sons and daughters
from their influence, as far as lies within our
power; our examples should be worthy of 
imitation by the youth of this people.”
	After a few interesting remarks by A. F.
Stuart and Bro. John Lewis, conference ad-
journed for three months. Benediction by
Coun. Henry Rogers.
	S.M. POMEROY, Sec.
	DAVIS STAKE
	
The quarterly conference of the Relief So-

[Column 2]
ciety of Davis Stake was held in the Centre-
villa Meeting House, Jan. 20, 1888. Meeting
opened by singing. Prayer by Bro. John
Wooley. Continued with singing. Prest. S.
Grant presided, and Sister Zina D. H. Young
met with us. Minutes of previous conference
were read and accepted; the reports of the 
different branches of the R. S. of the Stake 
were also read.
	Prest. Grant said she did not think it too
late in the season to wish all a happy new year;
was pleased to see so many present; was also
glad to see so many of our brethren with us;
always felt glad to be supported by the priest-
hood; felt a determination to do her duty.
	She then called upon the presidents of the 
branches that were present to speak. Sister
Hatch represented South Bountiful; Sister
Fackrell, West Bountiful; Sister Lucina Ses-
sions, East Bountiful; Sister Margaret Randall,
Centerville; Sister Ellen Barkdall, Farming-
ton.
	Sister Zina D. Young then addressed us.
Said we should always be united, and learn to 
control ourselves; be subject to those placed
over us; cultivate a love for our religion, for it
would bring us joy and satisfaction. “Let us 
teach our children correct principles and to
have faith in God.” Urged the necessity of
mothers watching over their children, and try
to keep them from falling into the snares that are
devised by our enemies to lead them astray.
Advised the sisters to read the Book of Mor-
mon, and especially the first and second books
of Nephi; said we were living in the very day
that was spoken of by the prophets. Spoke of
the great testimony that Bro. Joseph and Bro.
Brigham had borne to the world and they had
rejected it; and also of the judgments that were
beginning to be poured out upon the nations of
the earth; thought the Latter-day Saints should
be humble, and not forget their prayers.
	Bishop Cheney said he had been much edified
in listening to the good counsel and advice of 
the sisters; felt to endorse what had been said;
knew that our Heavenly Father was blessing
us, notwithstanding our carelessness. Spoke of
the responsibility of parents. “Let us honor
this trust, and be watchful over our children,
that they may grow up firm believers in the 
principles of the Gospel. I pray that God
may give us liberal hearts, that we may com-
fort the hearts of the poor and those who have
been deprived of their fathers and husbands.”
	Prest. Grant felt she had been truly blest in
hearing the good instructions that had been 
given.
	Conference then adjourned until 2 o’clock,
with singing and benediction.
	2 p.m.: Meeting opened by singing. Prayer
by Bro. Waddoups, Sen. Singing again.
	Coun. Mary S. Clark said, “We are a blessed
people, gathered here in the valleys of the 
mountains, and if we listen to the counsels of
those placed over us, we will receive great 
blessings. Encourage love for one another; be 
careful to keep the light within us; our enemies
are desirous of destroying the priesthood, that
is what they are working for.” Felt a desire to 
be faithful in the performance of every duty;
spoke of the importance of taking care of our 
bodies. 
	Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very
good instruction; spoke of the evils of tobacco;
said it was destroying the health and laying a 
foundation for disease. Exhorted the mothers
to look after their children; try and gain their 
confidence; have them attend the Primary, as 
it is preparing them to be useful members in
the kingdom of God; teach them to have faith
in the Lord, and they will grow up in it Said
none would be saved in the celestial kingdom 
except those who turn from evil and choose the
good, “Read good books; search for knowledge,
and resist all evil influences; cease to find fault
with one another.” Spoke of the necessity of


prayer, and cultivating the spirit of kind-
ness, and also of the perfect organization that
existed in the Church, even the children were
organized, so that all may know God from the
least to the greatest.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers bore a faithful testi-
mony; spoke of the carelessness of the people.
“We should seek for the Spirit of God and live
in a manner that it will abide with us.”
Thought persecution was necessary to bring us
in the line of our duty; spoke of the Primary;
exhorted all those holding offices in the Asso-
ciation to be faithful and diligent, and  let us
seek for the spirit of our offices and callings.
	Sister Rhoda Hinman had a testimony to
bear of the truth of the work we are engaged
in. “We should live our religion day by day,
and strive to overcome the evil of our natures.
We are living in a day full of events; there is
nothing outside of our religion, but there is
everything in it, for it embraces every truth;
one of the worst things to regret is for a person
to lose the light after they have received it, for
oh, how great is the darkness! My desire is to
perform every known duty, and receive the in-
structions that are given us from time to time
and profit by them.”
	Sister Grant was thankful for the good in-
structions that had been given here to-day;
hoped all would treasure it up; advised the sis-
ters to read the Book of Mormon and all good
books. “Let us search after true knowledge,
for we cannot be saved in ignorance.” Was
much pleased with the advice Sister Zina had
given to mothers; hoped all would profit by it.
“Let us watch over our children, and teach
them the principles of life and salvation, which
will lead them back into the presence of their
Father in Heaven.” Felt determined to try
and do her duty and perform the labors that
were placed upon her.
	Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
ing. Benediction by Bro. Christenson.
		RHODA HINMAN, Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


﻿LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
			BY M. J. TANNER.
	Williamsburg, Sunday, May 10, 1885.
	Weather pleasant. Went to church with my
cousin, who is a Methodist. The minister is a
young man and seems earnest in his profession.
Mr. Kimball came this evening, and we had a
nice visit.
	Monday, May 11. Had my photograph
taken this morning. After dinner we visited
Brooklyn, stopping to look through a large new
store. I think I never saw anything so elegant,
and so many novelties in glass and china ware;
in silks and dresses and laces, and in furniture
of all kinds. Each story had a specialty, and
we could go up by elevator or stairs. There is
a beautiful parlor, where ladies can sit down to
rest and look out over the main floor; a dress-
ing room leads from it, fitted up with every
necessary convenience. I have been through
several fine stores, but never saw any like this
one; it is like a museum to go through it. At
each landing we are met by a gentlemanly
clerk, who inquires what he can do for us. We
say we do not wish to buy, but came in to
look at the store. He shows us through as if
visitors were an everyday occurrence. It is a
very pleasant pastime, walking through the
stores, but, like all pastimes, it has some draw-
backs. We ask very few questions about prices,
that being a matter in which we are not par-
ticularly interested; prices are marked in many
instances. When we were tired of walking
and looking around, we took a horse car and
went home.
	Tuesday, May 12. Weather pleasant. Had

[Column Two]

the headache this morning, but felt better after
breakfast. We get tired and warm with walk-
ing, and the draught of the cars gives us a
cold. We are planning a trip to New York
but cousin Charlie comes in and proposes a
trip to Ocean Beach, on the New Jersey coast,
where his aunt lives. She is my cousin, and I
decide to make her a visit, so I hasten to get
ready and go with Charlie. It is a pleasant
ride, and we see some nice towns und large
cities and a very pretty country. We pass
Long Branch, Ocean Grove, Asberry Park, and
a long line of beautiful seaside resorts. We
come to Springtown, where we stop, and take
a back to Sea Plain, where my cousin, Rebecca
Newman, resides. The weather is now cloudy
and chilly, and we are glad to sit by the fire.
It is a country place, and has a bleak, unculti-
vated look with some straggling woods near by;
they tell me the soil is sandy and poor, and the
salt air from the sea is not favorable to the
crops. The prospect is that in a few years it
will be built up as a seaside resort, as so many
miles of the coast has already been; but I am
surprised to see such an old country wear such
a forlorn, uncultivated aspect. The coast here
is a fine bathing and pleasure resort, and peo-
ple come from a long distance to enjoy it
through the summer.
	My cousin, Mrs. Newman, is much surprised
to see us. She is a tall, thin woman with very
keen black eyes, not at all like her sister, Mrs.
Kimball. She hastens to get us some dinner,
after which Charlie and I walk down to the
beach to see the ocean; it is called half a mile
to the beach. We cross a little patch of
woods, where a kind of brier-vine runs through
the sand, intersecting the path at intervals; I
catch my foot under one and nearly fall; I look
at my shoe, and find it badly scraped; I am
glad they are my old shoes. We gain the road
at last, which is just as sandy and hard walk-
ing. We sit down on a log and rest awhile, at
least I do, while Charlie stands around trying
to find something to say, thinking all the time,
no doubt, what a nuisance a woman is. We
walk on and reach the coast at last. It is a
grand thing to stand on the coast of the
Atlantic Ocean. Before us stretches a vast ex-
panse of water. I have seen so many pictures
of the ocean, that it does not seem new to me.
The waves come bounding in from the dark
blue, or, perhaps, green sheet of water, which
reaches out to meet the horizon, and at the
farther edge is a ship with sails stretched,
which looks as if it might fall off. I cannot
blame people of olden times for thinking the
world was flat; it certainly looks flat as far as I
can see, and the sky comes down like an over-
turned bowl. Behind us stretches the shore,
low, sandy, and with here and there an inlet or
pond of salt water, left by the rise of the tides.
One such little lakelet is being enlarged, and
the banks graded, with a nice carriage road
sweeping around it, and on a sign post we read,
“Lake Como.” I do not suppose it presents
any likeness to its illustrious namesake, but,
no doubt, in a few years it will be a very pretty
place.
	The beach, as far as I can see, is low and
sandy; about a quarter of a mile to the left is a
very pretty cottage, and a little way to the
right is the Life Station. The sand is white
and clean; it is damp from the constant washing
of the waves, which are now at high tide, and
come dashing over the sand in a way to make
us jump to keep from getting our feet wet; they
spread out over the sand and are gone so quickly
that I cannot dip my hand in them, though I
try several times; I pat my hand on the wet
sand and taste to see how salt the water is.
They roll themselves back, leaving everything
clean and dry, until they come bounding in
again as before. I try to think of the things
I have read as I stand looking for the first

[Column Three]

time on the grand old ocean, and I remember
these lines of Tennyson’s:
	
	"Break, break, break! on thy cold grey crags, O sea!
		But the tender grace, of a day that is dead,   
	Will never comeback to me."

	I could sit for hours watching the waves
dash and break, but, unfortunately, there, is
no place to sit, and standing is tiresome after so
long a walk. The breeze is so cold that it
rather destroys the sentiment. We walk along
the sand for awhile, gathering pebbles and
broken shells, washed smooth by the action of
the water; I pick up a piece of white bees’ wax,
and I try to weave a romance, wondering how
it came to be thrown up by the waves, and
whose fingers have pressed it, and how many
miles of sea it has traveled? While we stand
there the proverbial barefooted boy approaches,
suspenders broken and pants rolled up; he is
hailed by my companion as Charley, and is in-
troduced to me as a sort of cousin; he is a
grandson of my cousin Rebecka’s. We get
very sociable, and he has considerable informa-
tion to give about the surrounding country; he
is well posted, for his short life has been spent
there, and he is quite able to “talk.” We
realize that the farther we go, the farther we
have to return, so we decide to go to the house,
and reluctantly turn our steps. My cousin’s
husband is at home; his name is Joseph New-
man; he is also her cousin; her maiden name
was Newman, and her mother was my father’s
sister; he is very pleasant and sociable. We
have fried clams for supper. I am very tired
and retire early.
	Sea Plain, Wednesday, 13. Weather cloudy.
Had fish for breakfast. Never ate fresh salt
water fish before; they are small fish called
porgies. The regular fishing season has not
set in yet, but cousin Joe is fixing his boat and
getting ready, for he is a fisherman. He is one
of the unlucky kind, who never get forehanded; 
if he sells a piece of land he soon sees it re-
sold at enormous profits, and other people
getting rich from his hard earnings. He seems
a sort of happy-go-lucky, and takes the world
easy. His wife is all nerve and ambition; if
things were only reversed—but “so goes the
world.”
	Cousin Joe and Rebecka and Charley go
with me for a walk to the beach; Rebecka says
she has not been there before for two years.
We go to the Life Station and the keeper
shows us through the house. We see the life
boat, the life car and breeches buoy, the lisle
gun and projectile, with the shot line, the
whip line and the hawser, the sand anchor
and the crutch. The sand anchor is a heavy
plank, which is buried three or four feet deep
in the sand; a double rope, called the strap, is
attached to the anchor, and coming up through
the sand has a pulley attached to it. The shot
line is attached to the projectile, which is shot
from the gun; the whip line to the shot line,
and then comes the hawser; the projectile
reaches the ship and is hauled in by the crew;
a tally board is fast to the line; the board is 14
inches long and 4 inches wide, with large
letters printed in English on one side and
French on the other, giving directions what to
do. When all is ready a signal is given, the
life car is swung on the hawser, and the crutch
put under the strap to raise it from the ground;
this is drawn back and forth from the land to 
the ship by means of the whip line. The life
car is very light, shaped like a melon, and so
covered that the sea water cannot dash in.
	It takes eight men to man the station, and
they stay there eight months in the year. They
are disciplined and drilled regularly. The
captain or keeper has $700 a year; the rest are
hired by the month. Everything is kept very
clean and is placed on wheels ready for imme-
diate use. The keeper very kindly shows us
these things and explains their use. He takes


us through the house and up on the lookout,
where we have a fine view of both ocean and
beach. We walk along the sands and pick up
pebbles and shells; it is low tide now, and there
is considerable bank between the water now
and where it washed at our feet yesterday, but
the same restless waves came dashing in with
the same low, murmuring sound, and I feel a
peculiar fascination as I reluctantly turn my
steps to leave it, and think that probably I
shall never come here again.
	Coming back through the woods, we sit down
on the steps of an empty house. It is a sum-
mer residence for some one who brings his
family from a large city to spend the summer
months by the sea-side. There are two of them
just alike. I am told they belong to brothers,
but the season is so backward that people are
not yet seeking their sea-side resorts. We get
back to the house very tired. After dinner
Mr. Newman takes me to call on their married
daughter, Mrs. Gifford, after which we call on
Mrs. Slocum. Cousin Netta Kimball said I
must be sure and visit Aunt Fanny Rogers,
and here I am told that I must be sure to see
Aunt Fanny Rogers before I leave. I hear so
much about her, that I feel quite a curiosity to
see her.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The oldest arm- chair in the world is the
throne of Queen Hatafu, who flourished in
Egypt 1,600 years B. C. It is made of ebony,
and is beautifully carved. It is now in the
British Museum.

	Gov. Eugene Semple, of Washington Terri-
tory, who has earned the blessings of thousands
of women all over the country by signing the
woman suffrage bill, is described by the Golden-
dale Sentinel as “a very genial gentleman, who
might be mistaken for a well-to- do farmer. He
bears the honors of his office easily.”


[Column 1]
	PHEBE PRATT.
	I have never seen a notice of the death of Sister Phebe
Pratt in our little paper; I have been waiting for some one
who was better acquainted with her life to write something
in her behalf.
	She was refict of the late Parley P. Pratt, so well known
in Church History. I only knew her in the latter part of
her life, and am not well enough posted to write about the
many interesting things that transpired in the early settle-
ment of the valleys, of which she bore her part, and of her
travels with her husband in Chili. I always found her
humble and patient, and earnest in the cause of truth, will-
ing to devote her life to the Gospel. She lived with her
only daughter, Mrs Holdaway, from whom she was never
long parted, until by the hand of death.
	She was very anxious to go to the temple and do a
work for her dead. She had made her calculations and
got her recommends and papers ready twice, when in
April she was taken down with pneumonia; she had a long,
hard fit of sickness and a slow convalescence. She was
very frail all summer, but clung tenaciously to the idea of
going to the Temple.
	About the 1st of September she had her arrangements
again made, her clothes ready and her trunks packed for
the journey. She would have started in a day or two,
when one morning as she tried to get up she found her-
self unable to do so, and she never left her bed any more; a
low fever set in, and in a few days she passed away, in the
arms of her daughter.
	She still had faith that she would recover, and her sudden
demise must have been as unexpected to her as to her
friends. Soon after her funeral, which was largely attended
by her friends, her daughter moved to Tintic with her hus-
band, and I had no opportunity of gathering dates as to her
age, or anything else of interest.
	She was about sixty-four years of age, and had spent
much of her life, after Parley’s death, at Spanish Fork,
where she taught school. She moved to Provo about ten
yean ago, when I first became acquainted with her. She

[Column 2]
became associated with the Relief Society of the Third
Ward, and acted for several years in the capacity of Coun-
selor to the President. She resigned her position to go
with her daughter to Juab, from where she moved to Salt
Lake City. She returned to Provo, and was holding the
position of Counselor to the President of the teachers
quorum at the time of her death.
	We feel to offer the following Resolutions of Respect to
her memory:
	
	Whereas, In the providence of an alwise God, He has
seen fit to remove from our presence our beloved sister,
Phebe E. Pratt, and,
	Whereas, Our departed friend and associate was worthy
our highest regard and affection, we  feel that some proper
recognition of her virtues be had among us; therefore,
be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Relief Society,
deeply mourn the loss of such a sister, and will ever hold
her name in affectionate remembrance.
	Resolved, that we extend our sympathy to her family
and friends, and that we try to so order our lives that we
may hope to meet her when our journey of life is over.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be spread on the re-
cords of the ward, that a copy be given to her bereaved
family and friends, and that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S
Exponent. 
							M. J. Tanner, Prest.
							Lavira COLLINS, Sec. 
	P. S. Phebe Soper Pratt was born at Hempstead, Har-
mon, Queens County, New York, July 8, 1823. Was sealed
to Parley P. Pratt in the Nauvoo Temple by John Taylor,
Feb. 8, 1846.
	She went on a mission with her husband, leaving Salt
Lake City March 16, 1851. They sailed from San Fran-
cisco Sept. 5, for Valparaiso, Chili, South America, and
arrived Nov. 8th. Returned to San Francisco on the 21st
of May, 1852, after a tedious passage of seventy-nine days,
having suffered for proper food for forty days on board
ship.
	She died at Provo, Sept. 17, 1887, aged 64 years and
2 months.
	B.P.

	Resolutions of Respect, to the memory of Sister Nettie
Levi Yardley, by the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver City,
Beaver Co., Utah, Jan. 20, 1888.
	Whereas, God in His infinite mercy, has seen fit to take
from our midst our dear friend, sister and fellow-laborer in
the Y. L. M. I. A., and,
	Whereas, Our friend and associate was worthy our high-
est affection and regard, her labors in our Association being
faithfully performed, both as officer and member, we feel
it proper that we make expression of our feelings at the
loss we are called, upon to sustain; therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we, as members of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Beaver City, realize, that in the death of Sister Nettie
Levi Yardley, this Association has sustained a severe loss.
	Resolved, That we shall sadly miss her presence, her
wise counsels and her cheerful spirit in our meetings.
	Resolved, That we, as members of this Association, will
try and profit by the wise counsel she has given us, and
emulate her example in chastity, in cheerfulness, and in the
performance of every duty.
	Resolved, That we extend our sincere sympathy to her
stricken family, especially to her husband and babes, hop-
ing that the comforting Spirit of our Heavenly Father may
be with then to console them in their sad and sudden
affliction.
	Resolved, That a copyof these Resolutions be presented
to her parents and her husband, and that they be sent to
the Utonian and to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion.
	She was one among our number,
		As child, maiden, wife;
	Was pure, kind and loving
		Through every walk in life.
	From early days of babyhood,
		She, light of home hath proven;
	To her father and her mother
		No care or doubt hath given.

	As sister and companion,
		As wife and mother, too,
	She’s shown qualities of character
		That are seldom brought to view.
	She was lively in her nature, 
		Yet strong in traits of heart,
	Which endeared her to acquaintances,
		Unalloyed by craft or art.

	As a member of our Sabbath School,
		Also the “Mutual Guide,"
	She always filled her mission well,
		Ne’er shrank from duty’s side.
	And as sales-woman or teacher,
		Likewise mother, friend, or wife,
	She was always at her station,
		Has been thus through her life.

	She’s sanctified her mission,
		And nobly borne her cross.
	Has gone to that heavenly region.
		Where’s no sorrow, sin or loss.
	There friends do never separate,
		And hearts are stronger bound,
	True worth is rightly recognized, 
		And falseness never found.

	For her husband and her babies 
		We ask God’s choicest care;
	Also for parents and kindred,
		We extend an earnest prayer.
	The time is short before us
		To work out all that’s good,
	Before we give our record up,		
		Where each one’s understood.

	Be comforted, we say to you,
		For God’s will must be done,
	And Nettie’s with the glorified,
		Also with the Chosen One;
	And you’ll meet her over yonder,
		If worthy to join her there,
	In the kingdom of God’s glory,
		Unsullied by wrong or care.

	E. J. Bennett, President.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS
DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS,WATER & STEAM FITTERS 
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.	
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.	

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
	in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES, 
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS:
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
fant’s Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Street.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
