VOL. 16.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1887.	No. 6.


IN MEMORY

OF OUR LATE RESPECTED LEADER
PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.

Faithful Friend of God and man!
	Who shall estimate his worth?
Ever in salvation’s van,
	Toiling for the sons of earth;
Long his labors; broad the field—
That continual harvests yield.

His, the pre-appointed lot
	Of anointed Saints and seer’s;
Here the world approved him not;
	Now he mingles with his peers,
As his life blood! heretofore
Mingled with the Prophet’s gore.

Persecution’s quenchless flames
	Proved his steadfastness of soul,
Staunch his courage, true his aims,
	As the magnet to the pole.
Lasting and illustrious fame
Hence shall wreathe, John Taylor’s name.

One of Nature’s mighty men
	Our late leader was, and more;
Called of Heaven—behold him then!
	Always at the battle fore,
Undismayed! a champion bold
For the truth, revealed of old.

Full of faith and power, like Paul,
	Lion-hearted, yet so mild;
Grand and gracious, yet, withal
	He was humble as a child;
’Tis exalting, thus to find
Such a type of human kind.

From his lips, such words of cheer
	Strengthen’d many a sinking heart,
Mem’ry holds his promise dear
	Yea! ’twas prophecy in part;
Words, that lifted hopes so bow’d
Words, that rifted sorrow's cloud.

May the peace of God attend
	All the household, ’reft and shorn;
Zion mourns a watchful friend;
	Angels hail, a chieftain born!
Heavenly hosts, a brother greet;
Friends, renew communion sweet.

Veteran in the cause of Right,
	Gone with heroes hence to dwell;
Martyr to Oppression’s might.
	Faithful, fearless Saint, farewell!
Prison stripes, nor prison bars
’Wait the just beyond the stars.
	EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


TRIBUTE TO THE MEMORY OF PREST.
JOHN TAYLOR.

The grief and joy that all express
While Zion dons her mourning dress
In sacred honor to her chief,
A small expression of her grief
Now weighed beneath the heavy loss
Of one, who died beneath the cross,
With sure reward and great renown
To wear a glorious martyr’s crown.
The cross he bore with double load,
Twice martyred for the truth of God;
With Joseph and the prophets now
The crown is placed upon his brow,
Where far beyond oppression’s power
He gazes back upon the hour,
That saw him to his latest breath
A soldier of the cross till death.
No ghastly feelings, dread or fear
Are seen or felt around the bier,

[Column 2]
But sweet and hallowed peace and love,
Like dew descending from above.
And with devoted hearts we pay
The tribute, last of all, to-day
From loving eyes our tears are shed
In reverence to the honored dead—
The death that’s brought us silent grief
Has also brought us sweet relief.
While casting forth our eyes abroad,
In this we see the hand of God;
He's taken from the evil hour,
And also from the tyrants’ power.

The faithful shall rejoice to know
That he has gone to rest,
And left the persecuting foe, 
Which now afflicts the West;
But mourn to lose a leading mind
So noble and so great,
As in this holy house we find
Laid out to-day in state.
He tread the goodly path on earth, 
Which leads to heaven and God,
And from his pure, inspiring breath
Salvation’s language flowed. 
He now has reached the glory-goal
Of freedom, peate and love,
Where bigots can’t oppress the soul
That graces courts above.
In solid comfort, peace and rest,
This lovely summer morn’,
He smiles upon his foolish foes;
While laughing them to scorn,
He’s taken from the wrath to come,
Though men perceive it not, 
And from the weary prison gloom
And foul assassin’s plot.
He loved the Prophet Joseph well,
With him be met the balls
That pierced him once wilh shot and shell.
While filling duties’ calls,
Wilh him he’d fight, or bravely die
In Zions glorious cause;  
For though the murderer’s hand was nigh 
’Twas God and heaven’s laws
That still inspired the hero’s soul,
ln all his acts below;
When to the prison Carthage Jail
With Joseph he would go.
Composed in sweet and silent rest
We see the noble form,
That bound a spirit truly blest, 
Now soaring o’er the the storm;
That foul oppressors sought to wage
Against the son of God,
Who, free from persecution’s rage,
Has reached his grand abode—
With Joseph and with Brigham there
His counsels soon will tell. 
For power and knowledge everywhere
Shall strike the sounding swell,
And Zion’s children shall rejoice
Beneath the power of God;
For he will advocate their cane
To break the tyrant’s rod;
His dignified and manly voice
Will move the heavens above,
To save the people of his choice,
Who truth and virtue love.

No time nor talent will he spare
To plead the cause of Zion there,
Her cause will occupy his mind,
Until he sees her freedom signed.
	JANETTE PATON.


A love of flowers is love of the beautiful; a
love of the beautiful is a love of the good.—
S. Robinson.


LADY MACBETH AND OPHELIA.

	"The mind can make
Substance, and people planets of its own
With beings brighter than have been, and give
A breath to forms which can outlive all flesh."

	We are led to appreciate and comprehend
this power through no other works so much
as in those of the immortal Shakspeare. Has
he not created for us worlds and worlds of
thought? has he not discovered to us the
causes and effects of action? has he not given
us a more perfect conception of life than we
could form from merely observing life itself?
	Indeed, Shakspeare's perception is so vivid,
and his glance so comprehensive, that he can
search out the nature of all things and dis-
cover the relations of objects.
	It seems that the basis of every science can
be deduced from his writings; for this reason,
some intelligent investigators have been led to
believe that no one man could be the author
of them all; but the knowledge displayed in
his productions was so much in advance of the
age, that we know it was the effect of nothing
less than poetical inspiration.
	Shakspeare's knowledge of the human heart
land mind is so accurate that, under any cir-
cumstances, whether in health or disease, he 
never makes a mistake.
	He has perhaps never moulded a character
more ambitious, more powerful, more bloody
than Lady Macbeth; nor a character more
pure, more guileless, more gentle, than Ophe-
lia: yet, when we analyze and study the
characteristics of both, though radically dif-
ferent, we find they are essentially feminine.
Let us make a brief study of each, and by
comparison, discover traits and qualities that
otherwise would not appear.
	Lady Macbeth comes before us a beautiful
and attractive woman, with a form of delicate
and truly feminine mould, and with features
finely chizeled. She has just received a letter
from Macbeth, her husband, which conveys the
great news of the witches prophecy—that Mac-
beth should receive titles and would at length
become king. A shudder passes over us as we
gaze on that face and hear her exclamation—

"Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shall be
What thou art promis'd."

	There is a purpose in her tone which por-
tends bloody business. She determines to sweep
away "All that impedes him from the golden
round." While this resolution yet fires her
thoughts, a messenger announces that Duncan,
the king, will be her guest that very night. At
once she feels that uow is the time for action.
	Lady Macbeth is afraid, lest her conscience
will interfere with her base designs; so she calls
the spirits—"that tend on mortal thought," to
unsex her and fill her with "direst cruelty" and
stop up the access to remorse.
	Macbeth arrives now, and Lady Macbeth
begins her task of planning for the murder.
For the night's great business she had chosen
to take in her own dispatch. She had at once
to play the gracious hostess to the king, and
keep Macbeth to the dire task of assassinating
him,—for Macbeth was a moral coward, and
as the fatal hour approached, his courage
failed, and in this state of irresolution Lady
Macbeth found him. In vain does he protest
that he cannot murder the king, his kinsman
guest; in vain does he plead danger of discov-
ery; her final appeal, "From this time, such do


[Column 1]

I account thy love," inspired the faltering
Macbeth with the determination to do all that
he had sworn to do.
	She made very easy work for Macbeth by
drugging the attendants; and, indeed, would
have herself dispatched Duncan: but, true to
her fears, her conscience rushes on her un-
awares and for the moment triumphs—her
hand is restrained by the king's resemblance
to her father; she does not, however, hesitate in
spurring on Macbeth to his damnation
	The murder committed, he is seized with in-
finite terror and remorse, while the latter is
beginning to find its way to Lady Macbeth's
heart; nevertheless, she summons enough will
and strength to carry the daggers Macbeth
had brought in his confusion, back to the
chamber where Duncan lies slain; then, after
smearing the grooms with blood, she returns to
exclaim:

"My hands are of your color; but I shame
To wear a heart so white."

	The knocking at the gates has already be-
gun, and though it sends Macbeth nearly mad,
his wife does not waver a moment: she almost
drags him from where he stands transfixed.
	It is in this scene where Lady Macbeth dis- 
plays her superhuman will,—she seems to crush
everything that comes in her way; she ascends
to the topmost tower of her strength: the effort
was too great, and she soon gives way, but not
before she again exercises great will-power in
the banquet scene, when she seeks to bring
Macbeth to his healthy mind, as the apparition
of Banquo rises before him; she also endeavors
to give proper explanations of his wild actions
to the company, but finding him growing
wilder, and her own strength failing, she gra-
ciously dismisses the company. Though she
had uttered the most cutting sarcasm to her
husband, to recall his better wisdom, she says
not a word of reproach when they are left
alone—there is something touching in this si-
lence: she loves her husband, and her ambition
has ever been for him, more than herself; she
could not have done all she did with purely
selfish motives.
	She is not haunted by ghosts or terrified by
air-drawn daggers as Macbeth is, for during
her waking moments, all within her heart is
concealed—but she is troubled with "Thick
coming fancies, that keep her from her rest."
A somnambulist, haunting the house like a
spectre, "with eyes open to external things,
but with sense shut," she sees the spots of blood
on her hands and seeks to wash them away.
Alas! a little water might wash the filthy wit-
ness from her hand, but it cannot wipe out the
remembrance of it, nor will "all the perfumes
of Arabia" sweeten that little hand!
	Ophelia, the fair-haired daughter of the
north, arouses all our sympathies and we love
her for her untainted purity of heart. She is
very young and her mind not developed. We
first behold her when she is bidding farewell to
her brother, Laertes,—there is an expression of
sadness on her face which clings there. Laertes
thinks it his duty to warn Ophelia against the
"importunities of Lord Hamlet," tells her to
think them

"Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting
The perfume and suppliance of a minute: no more!"

	Ophelia replies half unconsciously, "No
more, but so." She believes in the sincerity of
her lover, but promises to keep her brother's
counsel as "watchman to her heart."
	She replies to her father's questioning on the
same subject, that Hamlet had given her many
tenders of his affection in honorable fashion.
Polonius perplexes and wounds her by his
harsh language, but she receives it with quiet
submission; and upon his commanding her to
give no more words with Lord Hamlet, she re-
plies, "I shall obey, my Lord."
	The anguish this cost her was known only to 
herself.

[Column 2]

	Hamlet's repulsion was the cause of his
rushing in her presence, wild in his attire, but,
with a look so piteous that is smote her heart,
she goes to her father to aquaint him with her
fears, that Hamlet was mad for her love. With
this news, Polonius is pleased; his resentment
disappears, and he hastens to inform the king
and queen. The plan is then made for Ophelia
to meet Hamlet and offer to return his remem-
brances, the scene is to be viewed from a place
of concealment by Polonius and the king, 
where they await in joyful expectation of dis-
covering that the sequel of Hamlet's madness,
is his love for Ophelia. But Hamlet heaps up-
on Ophelia's head invectives, and accuses her
of deceit. tells her he did love her once, and
upon her replying, "Indeed, my Lord, you
made me believe so," he continues, "You
should not have believed it. I loved you not."
In this scene he lacerates her heart unmerci-
fully. Ophelia scarcely replies to his cutting
remarks, but when he has gone out from her
presence, she utters a heart-broken cry:

"Oh, woe is me, 
To see what I have seen, see what I see!"

	We next see Ophelia at the play in com-
pany with the King, Queen and Court, here
she is for once happy; Hamlet reclines at her
feet, and utters not a word of scorn or re-
proach. This is the last time Hamlet is per-
mitted to behold Ophelia. On that very night,
he fatally stabs Polonius, Ophelia's father, mis-
taking him for the king.
	Poor Ophelia! her brother in a foreign land,
her father slain, and by the idol of her heart—
who was left to support and console her now?
Her already wounded spirit was crushed by
this blow, and her fine and sensitive intellect
completely dethroned by the horror and grief
of the situation.
	She appears before us now, the "queen of a
fantastic realm;" her thoughts are combina-
tions of disjointed things," but unmerciful fate
is not yet satisfied: Ophelia is destined to live
on yet a little longer.

	"The ruined wall stands
When the windworn battlements are gone,
The bars survive the captive they enthrall;
The day drags through, though storms keep out the sun,
And thus the heart will break, yet brokenly live on."

	Ophelia and Lady Macbeth, as productions
of Shakspeare, are equally great in their sep-
arate spheres, though nearly three centuries
have passed away since they were created by
an inspired pen, yet, they continue to shine in
the universe of literary characters as stars of
the first magnitude.
	From the study of these two characters we
get a knowledge of the capabilities, powers and
also the limits of the mind.
	We cannot conceive of two characters more
unlike. Lady Macbeth! what a feeling of ab-
horence strangely mingled with awe and pity
is awakened by the very name, abhorence for
her wickedly ambitious deeds, awe for her
superhuman will, and pity, for her mind shat-
tered by the shocks of many crimes. Ophelia,
on the contrary, excites our love for her sweet-
ness, our admiration for her sincerity and our
sorrow for her self-sacrifice.
	Before we judge Lady Macbeth too harshly
let us remember that the moral tendency of her
age was bad, in that ambition, an element of
life most necessary when kept within healthy
bounds, was carried to excess; her perverted
nature was to a greater or less extent the effect
of it.
	Ophelia was brought up in the strictest se-
clusion from society and only the better part
of her nature was cultivated. She was ignor-
ant of evil, and this at times is the cause of
her seeming weakmindedness.
	The chief element of Lady Macbeth's char-
acter is ambition; she wishes Macbeth to be
king and herself his queen, yet, when this is
finally accomplished, she says "nought's had,

[Column 3]

all's spent," she feels that she has gained
nothing, yet sacrificed all. Lady Macbeth had
wonderful will power, which enabled her to set
aside all scruples in gaining the object of her
ambition. This power was the result of nerv-
ous excitement. Thus, after the murder of
Duncan, we find her rapidly failing. Had she
gone on with Macbeth and taken an active part
in the murders he committed, subsequently
she could have perhaps retained this power,
but we never hear of her in connection with
wicked deeds again, though the heart-broken
reference she makes in the sleep walking scene
to the Thane of Fifes wife, is evidence that she
is informed of Macbeth's actions. She has
nothing left but to brood over the fresh crimes
of her husband as well as her own past ones,
and having lost her will through inactivity the
veil drops from her conscience she had so rudely
covered, and bares it to the view of her mind.
Ophelia cared not for the title queen (though
the chance of her obtaining it was perhaps
greater than for Lady Macbeth). Ophelia
loved Lord Hamlet with all the power of her
heart, yet sacrificed her feelings uncomplain-
ingly at her father's command—filial obedience
usurped ambition's place, Ophelia's powers
were not developed, yet we realize it required
a great amount of will to execute her father's
commands in regard to Lord Hamlet. She
exercised a quiet firmness and did not waver a
moment from the course she believed to be
right, her will was excited and dictated by
purely conscientious scruples. Lady Macbeth
is a moving power of action, Ophelia is carried
on with the currents of human events.
	The former has keen perceptive faculties, she
reads the minds of others, she suspects people.
She is quick to decide, having fixed on a line
of action, she follows it up, letting nothing in-
terfere with her progress. The latter, herself
pure, fancies the motives of others above sus-
picion, she is left very little to decide for her-
self. All her actions are a natural result of
what precedes. While Lady Macbeth creates
opportunities, Ophelia is wholly governed by
those already in existence. Lady Macbeth, in-
stead of trying to curb evil thoughts, courts
them, and steels her heart against the influence
of good. She appears to have no belief in the
existence of a power greater than the mind.
Evil seems to fear Ophelia, she has a firm be-
lief in Sweet Heaven and in Heavenly Powers.
	Lady Macbeth took her own life to escape
the terrible rack of an abused conscience.
Ophelia was unwittingly the cause of her own
death, a victim to circumstances produced by
others.
	Lady Macbeth comes before us for the last
time and, as we gaze on her face, we realize
that bad, unscrupulous and powerful as she had
been, her heart is broken and bleeding, her
conscienee is sorely awakened and she is under-
going the severest pangs of remorse. No longer
she stands before us a thing of almost super-
human will-power, but a creature of abject
helplessness. She steals away and we know it
is with the terrible guilt unwashed from her
soul. There is no chance of forgiveness for her,
yet the retribution is just We think of her
now with eyes all moistened with tears, but our
hearts are heavy, we sigh for her and our lips
are mute.
	Although insanity is considered the most dire
calamity, yet it comes like a ministering angel
to relieve Ophelia's soul, for while she sojourns
here she does not suffer that poignant grief that
would have forever been with her.
	Farewell, Ophelia, you have passed from this
life with those wild, sad songs on your lips
you have suffered much. Unused as you were
to care and troubles your heart was broken
and your mind was shattered by the wicked
acts of others. We would with the Queen have
joyed to see you the wife of your love, Hamlet,
but that being made impossible, we feel a sort


of calmness in putting you away from the sor-
rows of this life. Had you committed deeds of
sin we would feel a greater anguish, but we
part from you with the knowledge that you
passed away pure, lovely and divine.
	ALICE SMITH MERRILL.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

OUR TWENTY-FOURTH.

July has given to us two days to be
Remembered with deep love and joy
And gratitude by all true hearts;
The first, this mighty Nation's natal day,
The glorious Fourth, which millions
Join to celebrate, and sing the songs of Liberty.

	The other day is ours alone,
The Day when first a band of weary,
Footsore Pilgrim pioneers were gladdened
By the sight of Utah's vales, the chambers
Of the Mountains of the Lord—
Forty long years ago, our own dear
Twenty-fourth!

	'Tis well to-day to backward
Gaze, and trace the links in the
Great chain that leads us to the
Present. The Theme is wide, and
Deep, and vast, and we can only
Point you to a few, but you can
Read from out that mighty book.
That holds the Past, the Present and
The Future. And it were well for all
To read and study faithfully.

	In a deep forest. 'neath the blue
Vault of heaven, behold on bended
Knee a boy, fair haired and young,
With hand uplifted pleading unto
God, to know the better way,
Even the way of life eternal, out
Of the mists and darkness that
O'erspread the land.
'Twas thus he prayed: "Father, Thou
Hast said, 'If any lack for wisdom
Let him ask of me who giveth liberally
And upbraideth not, and it shall be
Given him.' I crave that promise now."
The answer came; two heavenly
Beings stood before him, and
God the Father, poining to the Son,
Said, "Hear ye Him."
	
	Then was a heavenly vision opened
To his view, the path he sought made plan.

	Again behold a little band still
In the forest wilds, met to reorganize
Christ's Church on earth. See how
From there the word of God went forth
Unto the starving multitudes, famishing
For the pure bread of life. Read from
The pages of this past, how the spirit of
Elijah rested upon them and as an
Eagle's wings they came flocking from
Afar, to listen to the Prophet's voice,
A Prophet taught of God, the Father, and
The Son, of Peter, James and John, Moroni
And Elijah, What wonder that his
Words more precious were than gold—
That rapidly he grew in wisdom and in
Knowledge far, far beyond his years.

	Behold, as fruit of Gospel seed, fair towns
And cities into being spring as if by magic,
And love and joy and deep thanksgiving
Dwell therein. And still the work
Rolls on, although each step has been
Opposed by Satan's hosts, and loud,
Deep threats of violence we heard,
And mobs arose driving the Saints from
Lands their sires had died to gain.

	But hark! what means that bitter wail of
Anguish, that sudden thrill of pain
That makes the stoutest heart stand
Still? And as did Jesus cry, "My God,
My God, hast thou forsaken us!"
Turn thou to Carthage Jail and then
Behold our Patriarch and Prophet slain;
Sealing their testimony with their blood.
Did the great work die with them? No!

[Column 2]

The Gospel truths they taught found 
Place in many hearts, the Twelve
Stepped forth to bear the Kingdom on,
With Joseph's mantle resting on our
Brigham Young.

	Nauvoo, Queen of the West, had
Reared her temple grand, and there
More Keys and powers were given—
While smiling plenty filled the land,
And still the work rolls on.
Again there comes a cry from baffled
Foemen, who had said if we but
Slay the Leaders, then the work will cease.
Listen now unto the Mandate, oh ye
Heavens and spirits of our Pilgrim fathers:
"Deny your God! Go out into the wilderness or die,
For we will wipe you out with sword and fire!"
Did they then falter? No, for Brigham's 
Voice was heard, "Unto your tents, oh
Israel, we'll seek that home
'Mid the rocky wilds, and savage tribes
Denied us here in free
America."
Swiftly they turn them from their
Happy homes; and even now the foe rush
In impatience for the prey—
Now from afar they turn to take a
Last long look—when from the Temple
Dome burst forth fierce fire and smoke
Ascending up to heaven; and stricken
Do they gaze on this another sacrifice.
We cannot follow in their footsteps over
The trackless deserts, nor pause beside the
Graves of those laid down to rest by the
Lone wayside. They found the Heaven
Sought, their feet were firmly planted
There, the desert places changed to
Smiling fields of grain, of fruits and flowers.
Far to the East to West the North and South,
Thousands have borne to nations far
The Gospel truths, and thousands have
Been added to the Fold.

	This is the fortieth year for Zion
In the wilderness. Mark it, ye wise
Men of the Nation; think of the
Doom of Pharaoh and his hosts who
Dared to fight against Jehovah's
Power, and wisdom learn, that
Ye may save this nation from a
Fate as dark as that which humbled
In the dust proud Egypt
And her Kings.
Think of it, ye Saints, for it is
Near the time when Israel
Will be numbered, and Christ
Will claim his own, the
Pure in heart.		HOPE.


[Column 1]

LETTER FROM SANDWICH ISLANDS.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Lord has said He remembereth the isles
of the sea, and while we find great consolation
in His words, we do not wish to be forgotten
by our co-laborers in Zion, who are probably
not aware of the good work being done by the
native sisters of these islands. Hoping, there-
fore, that a few items in regard to the Relief
Society of this mission may be of interest to
your many readers, I subscribe the following,
trusting that you will bear in mind the char-
acter and class of people among whom we la-
bor.
	On this island, Oahu, there are four large
branches of the Relief Society, among whom I
have been laboring since our last April Con-
ference, endeavoring, as much as my know-
ledge of the language would permit, to ex-
hort them to obedience in observing the coun-
sel given by the servants of the Lord, and in
becoming live laborers in the building up of
His Kingdom here upon the earth. They are
an excitable people, and can be easily stirred
to life and energy, and just as soon sink into
indolence and evil if left to themselves. Since
our conference the four Societies of this island
have donated $124 for the Temple, mission

[Column 2]

fund, tithing, and the erecting of a new taber-
nacle in the Capital city, Honolulu; and more
will be received before our next conference.
	On the 18th of last month we held a joint
meeting at this place, a goodly number from
other branches being present, to report their
labors and receive instructions from the ser-
vants of God. To show with what interest
and faith they gathered to the meeting, I have
but to say that some of the old sisters, who
were not supplied with horses, walked nearly
all the way from Honolulu to the place, a dis-
tance of 32 miles. Yet they felt to rejoice in
traveling in the interest of the work of God.
In order to extend the work of exhortation to
all the branches of the Society on the other
islands, we sent out missionary sisters to per-
form that labor. After the close of the meet-
ing we invited the officers of this Society, the
visitors and the old sisters to take supper at
the mission house in haole (white) style. It
propably being the first supper of the kind
that many of them had ever attended; it called
forth much gratitude on their part and much
amusement on ours, as I presume it was the
first time that some of them had ever tried to
eat with a knife and fork. Spread before them
on the large dining room table of the mission
house, was a young boiled pig, a large roast of
beef, soup, Dutch cheese, buns, fried cakes,
pies, and white and brown bread. There was
no poi, their staff of life, as at present there is
a famine for that article. Had this been spread
on a mat on the floor, with no knives and forks,
leaving the fingers to convey both meat and
soup to the mouth, all would have felt at home,
but seated around a table and supplied with
the necessary implements of a feast, placed
many of them in an awkward position, and
when our attention was drawn away, many a
finger slipped into the meat and soup dishes,
and many a fried cake was concealed in the
pocket, to provide for future need, this being
an ancient custom of the natives. After sup-
per they returned with new energy for the
work of the Lord, and "full of good spirit,"
as they say.
	On the 9th inst., a Hawaiian feast was given
in celebration of the organization of this So-
ciety, in which a good time was enjoyed. A
liberal donation followed the meeting, but I will
forbear lengthening my letter at present. The
Societies are at present in a lively condition,
and are doing as good as can be expected of
them. The Hawaiian sisters have good ability
in many things. Their making of quilts, straw
hats, mats, etc., is very praiseworthy. We are
striving to fulfill our mission honorably here
among this people, and to this end put our de-
pendence in our Heavenly Father, and we trust
the prayers of our sisters in Zion will avail us
much, while we are all laboring to the same
great and grand end.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		LIBBIE NOALL.
Laie, Oahu, July 15, 1887.


Learn from the earliest days to inure your
principles against the perils of ridicule; you
can no more exercise your reason if you live
in the constant dread of laughter than you
can enjoy your life if yon are in constant ter-
ror of death.
	The first step in debt is like the first step in
falsehood, almost involving the necessity of
proceeding in the same course, debt following
debt as lie follows lie. Hayden, the painter,
dated his decline from the day on which he
first borrowed money.—Samuel Smiles.
	Education should be regarded as capital in-
vested for the future, from which a profit may
be derived in subsequent life. It pays an an-
nual income without expense for insurance, re-
pairs or taxes. A good education is a more
lasting resource than riches.—Horace Mann.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, S3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	AUGUST 15, 1887.


[Column 1]

FUNERAL SERVICES.

	The funeral of President Taylor was held in the
Tabernacle in this city, on Friday July 29th, com-
mencing at 12 m. There was an immense congre-
gation, and hundreds outside were unable to ob-
tain seats, and many stood during the services.
The casket containing the body was placed in front
of the stand in an elevated position, so that it
could be seen by the multitudes assembled on the
solemn occasion. The coffin was of Utah pine
and highly polished. It was ornamented with
silver trimmings and inscribed on the breastplate:

PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.
		DIED JULY 25, 1887.
	Aged 78 years, 8 months and 24 days.
The footplate was engraved:
HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
REST IN	PEACE.
	The Tabernacle was tastefully draped in black
in honor of the illustrious dead, heavy black crape
being used for the organ and stands. In front of
the organ was an excellent steel-engraving of the
late President. Choice and lovely flowers were
arranged in vases and bouquets upon the stands,
and on the Sacrament table in the centre was a
large and elegant shield of flowers with the in-
scription CHAMPION OF LIBERTY in colors
contrasting harmoniously with the whole. It was
indeed a beautiful peace of artistic flower weaving.
A large sheaf of wheat fully ripe was near with
the appropriate words,
WELL DONE, GOOD AND FAITHFUL SERVANT.
	The stand of the First Presidency was unoc-
cupied. In the next were seated Lorenzo Snow,
Franklin D. Richards and Heber J. Grant, of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and Counselor
D. H. Wells, Patriarch John Smith, and Prest. A.
M. Cannon, of the Salt Lake Stake, also Patri-
archs Lorenzo D. Young and Joseph B. Noble.
On the third stand of the Seven Presidents of
Seventies were Jacob Gates, Horace S. Eldredge,
Seymour B. Young and Abram H. Cannon. The
members of Prest. Taylor's family occupied the
seats immediately in front of the stand. Prest.
Angus M. Cannon conducted the services, first
reading the following letter of Prest. Taylor's, giv-
ing instructions regarding the manner in which
his funeral should be conducted:
	Salt Lake City,
		November 17th, 1873.
President B. Young:
	DEAR BROTHER—Being asked to give a writ-
ten account of the way I wish to be buried, I
present the following:
	I have no desire for any particular formula; but
I should wish my body to be washed clean; to be
clothed in clean white linen garments and robes,
with shoes, apron, cap. etc., to be laid in a coffin
sufficiently large to contain my body without pres-
sure.
	Should I die here, let me be buried in my own
lot in the graveyard. Let the coffin be neat and
comely, but plain and strong; made of cedar, or
redwood, or of our own mountain pine; if of the
latter, colored or stained, and placed in an outer
strong box, with a light cotton or woolen mattress
or bed, and convenient pillow for the head.

[Column 2]

	The services, such as prevail at the time among
the Saints. A plain slab may be placed over the
body, and a stone at the head and feet; on the
headstone to be given an account of my name, age
and birth, as shall suit the feelings of my family.
	Should I die in Jackson County, Mo., let the
above directions be carried out as far as practic-
able.	Respectfully, your brother,
			JOHN TAYLOR.
	The first hymn sung, was the one entitled, "The
Resurrection Day," the congregation joining with
the choir in singing, the solemn peal of the organ
together with the subdued voices filled the large
building with a sublime and subdued melody.
Prayer was offered by Bishop Millen Atwood.
The choir sang,
"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone;"
	The first speaker was Apostle Lorenzo Snow,
who in his opening remarks quoted from St. Paul's
Epistle to Timothy:
	For I am now ready to be offered, and the time
of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good
fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the
faith.
	His remarks were tender and comforting, and it
was noticable that he felt keenly the tie that had
been broken; and that the bereavement was deep-
ly felt by the brethren who had been so closely
associated with the one now departed.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards in his address
reviewed some portions of the life and labors of
Pres. Taylor, expressing great interest and sin-
cere affection, and alluded in glowing terms to his
gifts and talents as a speaker, an author and a
leader, and exhorted the young, and especially his
sons and daughters, to imitate his noble and wise
examples and give heed to his instructions.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant made brief but eloquent
remarks, and also exhorted the sons and daught-
ers of Pres. Taylor to imitate his example and be
as courageous in advocating and defending the
cause of God as their father had been, that they
might meet him again and live with him eternally.
	President D. H. Wells said he agreed with the
Psalmist, who had said, "I shall be satisfied when
I arise in His likeness." He referred to the light
and redemption brought into the world through
the Lord Jesus Christ, for the benefit of the whole
human family; spoke of the illustrious character
and example of Pres. Taylor and his unflinching
integrity to the truth, and exhorted his family, his
brethren, and all Israel to do likewise.
	President A. O. Smoot said he had been ac-
quainted with Pres. Taylor nearly forty nine
years, knew him first as a distinguished and suc-
cessful missionary, then in the troubles of Mis-
souri as an Apostle of Jesus Christ, afterwards as
a journalist and an editor, always faithful, always
unflinching; never under any circumstances mur-
muring or complaining. Like the other brethren
who preceded him he also said he had come to
mourn with those who mourned, and yet, in real-
ity, there was occasion to rejoice as well as mourn.
	Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young followed with a
few consoling words, evidently much affected.
	Patriarch Joseph Bates Noble made some ex-
cellent remarks, referring back to the early days
and experiences in the Church.
	President Angus M. Cannon delivered the clos-
ing address, describing graphically his view of
the reception given to President Taylor, when
the portals of heaven opened and he met with his
co-laborers who had gone before him, Joseph,
Hyrum, Joseph, the Patriarch, and father of the
Prophet, Don Carlos, Samuel, Heber, Brigham,
Willard, David Patten, Jedediah, George A. and
others. His love and affection for his uncle was
vividly portrayed in choice and expressive lan-
guage, and he earnestly exhorted the Church to
faith, righteousness and good works.
	The choir rendered the anthem,
		"Jerusalem, my glorious home."
	Patriarch John Smith closed the solemn servi-
ces with prayer.

[Column 3]

	The funeral cortege then formed and proceeded
to the cemetary. The pall bearers were twelve
sons of the President. Six bands of music played
alternately during the time the procession wended
its way to the last resting place of the deceased.
At the grave a selected choir sang that glorious
hymn,
"O my Father, thou that dwellest."
	The grave and surrounding ground was dedi-
cated in prayer by Elder Richard Ballantyne.
This concluded the impressive ceremonies of the
day. A remarkable quiet and a feeling of awe
prevailed throughout all the exercises, and the
manifestations of love, respect and esteem from
the assembled multitudes, told plainly how Zion
mourned her honored chieftain and leader.


A POPULAR IGNIS-FATUUS.

	Moderu Christianity is exceedingly popular, and
the reason is that it promises everybody a com-
plete salvation both in this life and that which is
to come, for absolutely no exertion nor sacrifice
on their part, only a mere profession of faith or
belief in Christ. No wonder it is popular. A
natural propensity in the human family for obtain-
ing the greatest amount for the least possible out-
lay, is a notable fact; and how remarkably well
does so easy a way of securing the greatest boon
which poor, fallen humanity is offered, chime in
with this common tendency! and were it true, so
general would it be in its applicarion, that the very
devils would be saved even against their will, for
do they not believe that Jesus is the Christ? Yet,
however lovely, and grand, and beautiful it may
appear, it is contrary to the teachings of the Great
Author of salvation, and also to the whole tenor
of the New Testament writings.
	True, it is said that whosoever believes on the
Lord Jesus Christ shall be saved. But what con-
stitutes belief or faith in Christ is the all import-
ant question. James unequivocally states that
faith without works is dead, and scorns the idea
of works being separate from faith. To those who
consider works an obnoxious adjunct, we enquire,
what does James mean by asking: "What doth
it profit if a man say he hath faith and have no
works? Can faith save him?" He distinctly means
to inform them that faith and works are insepar-
able, and in a sense interchangeable terms. Again
he says: "Show me thy faith without thy works,
and I will show thee my faith by my works," in-
dicating that he who had no works had no faith,
and consequently could not be saved. It is "by
works that a man is justified, and not by faith
only; for as the body without the spirit is dead, so
faith without works is dead;" and how much dead
faith it takes to save anybody, James does not
condescend to say.
	Strange it is, that people should have such
aversion to "working out their salvation with fear
and trembling;" and stranger still that they should
claim to be saved merely because Christ died on
Calvary. Did not the Savior explicitly say: "Ex-
cept ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish;" "ex-
cept a man be born of water and of the spirit, he
cannot enter the Kingdom of God;" and "he that
endures to the end, the same shall be saved?" Of
what avail then is belief alone? Refuge is taken
behind the unscriptural assertion that by Christ's
death man’s eternal salvation was finished; and
that if we even think of doing anything, to secure
it, we rob Jesus of His glory. According to
James the fallacy of this is transparent. Why
should Paul, the great Apostle of faith, have need
to fear lest he should become a castaway? Why
should he need to work out his own salvation with
fear and trembling, if he believed it secured and
wrought out already? What an amount of labor
and anxiety would have been spared him, had he
lived in this "enlightened age," "this age of pro-
gressive theology!" No need of baptism, no need


of laying on of hands, no need of doing anything
—Christ did all. Why if that be true, what need
for preaching? It matters not whether we believe
or not, nothing can alter the grand result of His
crucifixion, that is, if by exclaiming, when giving
up the ghost, "It is finished," Christ meant that
there and then, unconditionally, we were saved
with an eternal salvation. With equal propriety
(or impropriety) we might infer that when, prior to
His betrayal, He prayed to the Father, saying: "I
have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished
the work which thou hast given me to do," man's
salvation was then accomplished.
	The Son of God came to seek and to save the
lost; and while there are sinners willing to repent,
Christ's work is not finished, "seeing that He ever
liveth to make intercession for them." But says
one, "We have to believe in His atonement."
"He that believeth not shall be damned." Then
we have to do something, and when that is ad-
mitted, does it not prove conclusively that, Christ
having done His part, we are required to do ours,
if we wish to secure that which we desire.
The very fact of our being required to believe
and be baptized proves there is something neces-
sary for us to do before we can "lay hold on eternal
life;" and that being the case, does it not clearly
show that they who clamor with holy horror
against doing anything to obtain salvation are in
error?
	Certain divines tell us that they must adapt the
truth to the advancement of the age, which means
that they must murder it and throw its dead body
to the dogs. It is asserted that the advanced
philosophy of the nineteenth century requires a
progressive theology to keep abreast of it, which
simply means that a popular lie shall take the
place of an offensive truth. Thus it is that mod-
ern Christianity, notwithstanding its popularity,
has proven a failure—because it is not the Chris-
tianity which Christ taught. Ringing down the
centuries come the Saxior's words: "If we love
me keep my commandments." "He that saith I
know Him and keepeth not His commandments,
is a liar, and the truth is not in Him." Therefor,
those who desire to be saved in the Kingdom of
our God must have faith in God and in His Son
Jesns Christ, our Redeemer, repent of their sins,
be baptized in water for the remission of the same,
have hands laid upon them for the reception of
the Holy Ghost by one having authority, and con-
tinue to walk in the narrow path which leads to
endless lives- "working out their salvation with
fear and trembling," by the grace of Him who has
called us out of darkness into His marvelous light.
And "Behold, now is the accepted time; now is
the day of salvation." (2 Cor vi, 2.)
	N. W. MCLEOD.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿

WHAT OF THE OPPOSITE ELEMENT.

	Is it possible that our enemies are not satisfied
now since they think we are whipped into submis-
sion, as it is apparent to-day? But you ask, why
call them enemies? Well, they are displeased
with us under all circumstances, because we have
received the heavenly message, and they will not
receive it. We are ridiculed and are disgraceful
in their eyes.
	It is written that the Lord made of one blood all
the nations of the earth. Accordingly they are as
responsible how they treat this message as we are.
Do they lack good common sense? No, perhaps
they are so well satisfied with this world, that they
have no time to think of another.
	Those who give their attention to the doctrines
of Jesus Christ and His Apostles, will see that
they all showed, by precept and example, that re-
spect for the higher powers, which was their due.
	In Romans thirteenth chapter St. Paul says:
"Let every soul be subject to the higher powers.

[Column 2]

For there is no power but of God: the powers
that be, are ordained of God." Believing as we
do, that St. Paul spoke these words by inspiration
of the Holy Spirit, we should not pass them by
unnoticed, but give heed to the same, which we
are doing at the present time. But we remember
also the words spoken by the Prophet Joseph, in
Nauvoo, Jan. 29th, 1841, recorded in Doctrine and
Covenants Sec. 124, v. 49 and 50:
	"Verily, verily I say unto you, that when I give
a commandment to any of the sons of men, to do a
work unto my name, and those sons of men go
with all their might, and with all they have, to per-
form that work, and cease not their diligence, and
their enemies come upon them, and hinder them
from performing that work; behold, it behooveth
me to require that work no more at the hands of
those sons of men, but to accept of their offerings.
And the iniquity and transgression of my holy
laws and commandments, I will visit upon the
heads of those who hindered my work, unto the
third and fourth generation, so long as they re-
pent not, and hate me, saith the Lord God."
	Looking at this subject in the light of reason
and common sense, we would ask: are not all the
human family children of God, our Father, and
accountable to Him how His commands are
obeyed and kept? St. Peter, in Acts second chap-
ter 13th verse, says: "Submit yourselves to every
ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it
be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as
unto them that are sent by him for the punish-
ment of evil doers, and for the praise of them that
do well." Our Lord and Savior also was subject,
as we learn from the New Testament; yet He
sometimes escaped their hands and got out of
their way for a season, until His work was ac-
complished. Yet, He always showed respect to
the higher powers, even until death, when He
cried out: "Father, forgive them, they know not
what they do."
	And why are we whipped into submission? Do
we always know what spirit we are of, while we
are engaged in this important work—this latterday
work? I know that the good and bad spirit does
not inhabit our tabernacles at the same time. Yet,
the bad one is ever at our elbow, to suggest some-
thing about this work, when he can not hinder
us in the performance of it. When we listen it 
is to our disadvantage every time. It is important
that we should know the difference in the two
spirits. Yes, that we have the discernment of
spirits; for our Great Head is not pleased with
anything short of strict obedience to His laws.
His work can not be accomplished in any other
way; although He has been very merciful to our
inexperience, while we were learning these les-
sons. But now it is time we knew them, for
we surely deserve a chastisement if we have not
learned. Let us acknowledge His hand in it, and
awaken to our duty. How has it been in rearing
large families? Were we always in posession of
the good spirit? Did we ever chastise in anger?
If so, it did the child no good. Were we not
grasping for the things of this life more than for
the riches of eternity? If so, we must be losers,
yet, we can profit by the lesson, which is an im-
portant one; because by it we become more ac-
quainted with ourselves and the need we have of
living nearer to God, and seeking diligently for
His Spirit to guide and direct us continually in
the performance of His work, for no other spirit
will suffice. We must learn the two spirits and
how to treat each one as they deserve.
	It is written that judgment will begin at the
house of God. We must purify ourselves to be
acceptable to Him. Does our Heavenly Father
chastise in severity? No, I think not; but He
allows the tempter to do it at times; and he de-
lights to whip those who will not listen and obey
his laws, and he requires as strict obedience of
his subjects as the Lord does. How could he ac-
complish his designs without it?

[Column 3]

	It is only a few days since I heard two gentle-
men converse. One of them said: "You will find
in a short time such a rush of Gentiles here that
your people will all be won over to the other
side." "Well," replied the other, "why not turn
the other way, and adhere to our side of the ques-
tion?" "No," he replied, "the world are not re-
ligious." How true, thought I. Yet a portion of
the human family always admire the works of an
allwise Parent, and long to know something more
of His character; and by studying the records of
those of similar character, they feel benefited by
the same. The Lord knows who they are, and
gives a portion of His Spirit to such. This Spirit
will show them things to come, and bring things
to their remembrance, making every effort in life
successful, which would be for their best good.
	Our Savior knew this when He said, "Except
ye are one, ye are not mine." This Spirit makes
them one in mind and feeling. It is like a pair of
good eye glasses, it enables us to see things in
their own true light.
	May we always be worthy to retain this Spirit,
is the sincere desire of
	M. E. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 3rd, 1887.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP'S CLASS.

	The following ladies, who have attended the
lectures of Dr. Shipp during the last six months,
passed very successful examinations, held by Drs.
Anderson and Bower, who complimented the
ladies very highly. The ladies who received their
certificates were: Mrs. Miranda Bateman and
Mathilda Olsen, Misses Carrie Jensen, Emma
Evans, all of Salt Lake County, Miss Jennie
Lloyd, of Cache County, and Miss Esther C. Par-
kinson, of Oneida County. Dr. Shipp intends to
commence a class about Oct. 1st. Any ladies wish- 
ing to study obstetrics would do well to communi-
cate with her before that date. She has given
such good satisfaction in the study of obstetrics,
that she should certainly receive patronage from
those desirous of gaining information upon this
necessary and important branch of the department
of medical science.


ITEMS FROM ENGLAND.

EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In my last letter I told you Her Majesty
had gone to Balmoral to spend her burth-day.
The morning of May 24th dawned brightly,
and the bells commenced ringing merrily, can-
nons were fired at intervals throughout the
day from the various dockyards and forts.
Flags were to be seen in every thoroughfare,
and the illuminations in the evening were gen-
eral, but the grandest were reserved for the
Jubilee day, which is fixed for June 21st. The
Aristocracy gave balls, banquets and receptions
to celebrate the 68th birthday of their illustri-
ous sovereign; but with these exceptions, no
public feeling of loyalty was manifest. Every-
one seemed determined to centre their atten-
tion on the day proclaimed by Her Majesty to
be kept as a jubilee holiday, in honor of the
Jubilee.
	There has been a special coinage this year,
and the coins represent the Queen, as she is at
the present time, on one side, and Saint George
and the dragon on the other. The portrait is
fairly good, but the crown to which her veil is
attached, is so placed on her head that it gives
one the impression it is falling off, and in a
great measure mars the coin. These, I believe,
are only to be circulated this year. On the
whole it is no improvement on the old coinage,
The half sovereigns and sixpences being so
much alike in size and stamp, that at the Crys-
tal Palace recently 32 sixpences had been
gilded over and tendered by some dishonest


[Column 1]

﻿people for half-sovereigns, and their similarity
causes dissatisfaction and distrust, and, if re-
ports are to be believed, these coins will be
called in. There is also a five pound piece,
which really possesses advantages, also the new
five shilling pieces; these latter are generally
retained by those who get them as mementos of
this eventful year. The editor of a Daily Tele-
graph newspaper has raised a fund in order to
give the children of London Board schools a
fete in honor of the Jubilee. Contributions
have been sent from all parts, and it is ar-
ranged to take place in Hyde Park on June
22nd, when the Queen has promised to drive
through that they may see her. It is an amus-
ing and interesting sight just now to walk
through some of our principal railway stations,
such as Charing Cross or Victoria, and watch
the arrivals of foreigners who have come to
London to witness the procession, which will
take place on June 21st from Buckingham
Palace to Westminister Abbey. Here is a
group of Germans, unable to speak English,
vainly looking for an interpreter to enable
them to get their luggage and proceed to their
hotels. Just opposite are two French ladies,
who are talking to a gentleman of the same
nationality and who evidently has been in
England some time. And how they are chat-
tering! as if their tongues were unlocked and
they now meant to make up for lost time. To
the right stands a party of distinguished look-
ing Indian gentlemen, who are evidently to be
guests of royalty from the carriage which they
quickly enter amidst cheers from the crowd,
who have followed the carriage and who feel
inclined to cheer anybody and anything con-
nected with the forthcoming event. Now and
then an Indian servant may be seen with the
pictursque red and white turban, and he stands
out in sharp contrast to the quiet-looking dress
of our own servants and porters, who, after
staring a few moments, hurry on with their
work calling cabs, rushing here and there with
luggage till all the passengers are gone to their
homes, and the next train comes in, when the
same scene is again enacted. The conutenan-
ces of the passengers are a study, some laugh-
ing, some crying, some looking intensely happy,
others very miserable. In the streets, in the
parks, the hotels, every place seems full of life,
and a pretty scene presents itself to our eyes
upon going in the parks, to see lovely green
trees and foliage which form a charming back-
ground to the bright, many-colored dresses of
the ladies, and the curious but extremely pic-
turesque dress of the foreign visitors.
	Queen Kapiolani of the Sandwich Islands.
and the Princess and suite have arrived, and
are staying at one of the West end hotels. The
Indian Princes are the guests of the Queen at
Buckingham Palace. The King of Denmark,
King and Queen of the Belgians, King of
Saxony, King of the Helenas, have also ar-
rived; also a representative from the Pope, and
many others too numerous to mention. All
the children of Queen Victoria will be present,
and most of her grand-children, and will take
part in the procession as well as the foreign
visitors. Rotten Row, the fashionable prom-
enade, is unpleasantly crowded, theatres are
filled, garden parties are being given, and en-
joyment and festivities are having full sway.
The Queen has returned to Windsor, and is
daily giving dinner parties and receiving ad-
dresses and deputations of congratulations. The
Prince and Princess of Wales have a house
full of visitors, and surely such a number of
kings, queens, princes and princesses never met
before.
	Westminister Abbey is finished and its usual
aspect is quite altered. From the floor to the
ceiling, seats, covered with red cloth, have been
erected for the accommodation of the favored
ones who will be permitted to witness the State
ceremony. A dais has been erected for the
royal family, and Her Majesty will occupy the

[Column 2]

Coronation Chair of Historical Interest. Out-
side the abbey a covered way has been erected
for the visitors to pass through, and a grand
stand has been erected for the members of
Parliament. The abbey is hid from view. The
whole of Sunday previous; to the ceremony,
workmen were busy hammering and erecting
stands, and were paid doubly for working on
the Sabbath, and it was surprising to see the
alacrity with which they stilled their feelings
about the sacredness of the Sabbath and of its
being a day of rest, when double wages were
offered.
	The military arrangements are now finally
authorized by the Duke of Cambridge, and
have been so arranged that the whole of the
route will be lined with military and naval de-
tachments. Westminister Hospital, which faces
the abbey, is externally in the hands of the
carpenters, who are putting seats all around
the building and erecting boards for spectators.
These seats, like a number of others, are fetch-
ing almost fabulous prices, such as ten guineas
for one seat, fifty guineas for a window, etc;
but, unlike most other schemes, the proceeds
will go to benefit the hospital, which nobly de-
serves all the support it can get. Hundreds of
sufferers are relieved here yearly, and funds
cannot be required or given for a better cause,
viz: the relief of our suffering fellow creatures.
	From one end of London to the other decor-
ations may be seen; the traffic is enormous,
the streets are almost blocked. Sightseers in
vehicles and on foot throng the streets, om-
nibuses are crowded outside and in, and tak-
ing advantage of the occasion by doubling, and
in some instances trebling, the ordinary fares;
but holiday makers, with their true English
characteristics, grumble and pay, well knowing
it can only be seen once in a lifetime.
	In my next letter I will endeavor to tell you
a little about the ceremony of June 21st.
		MARION.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.

MARICOPA STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of the
Maricopa Stake convened at the Society Hall,
June 16th, 1887, commencing at 1 p.m., Prest.
Elizabeth G. McDonald presiding. Opened
by singing, "O my Father, Thou that dwell-
est." Prayer by Bro. E. Ellsworth. Singing, 
"Sweet is the day of sacred rest."
	A few remarks were then made by Prest.
McDonald, expressive of her pleasure in meet-
ing with the sisters again under such favorable
circumstances. Roll of officers was then called,
which was generally responded to. Minutes
of previous conference read and approved Re-
ports were then called for from the different
branches of the Stake. Mesa was represented
by Prest. Mabel A. Hakes; Lehi, Prest. Lizzie
McDonald; Almy, Prest. Ann Kleinman;
Kempe not reported;  Papago, Coun. Savage.
Their reports were very encouraging, showing
the branches of the Relief Society in this dis-
tant country were trying to keep in the track
of their more favored sisters in the far north.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Morris, Bro.
Henry Rogers made some very interesting re-
marks. Had been much interested in the re-
ports and proceedings thus far. Said the time
had come when we had all got to stand for our-
selves; we know the Lord is on our side. Spoke
of being in Phoenix and meeting ex-Governor
Trittle; also Governor Zulich. "The one signed
the law disfranchising our people, the other
signed the bill repu liating it. They both have
made their records;  the one to endless infamy,
the other to everlasting honor. The Lord has
brought us to this land for a purpose; we must
sanctify the land by our good works; let us
strive to obtain the welcome plaudit, 'Well
done!'" Felt proud of the sisters; they were

[Column 2]

doing a good work, and were a great help in
the Stake. Was glad to meet with them in
their conference, and prayed the Lord to bless
them in their labors.
	Bishop Oscar Stewart felt that the Priesthood
of God was in the land, and they had a power-
ful backing in the sisters. Said the Spirit of
God had prompted him to come to this country,
and the opposite power should not draw him
out. "Let us retain our integrity to the cause
of truth."
	Bro. Charles Allen had listened with the
greatest satisfaction to what had been said.
Said the sisters were a great help to the
brethren. "We have got to pass through
trials, but the God of heaven will sustain us if
we are faithful." Gave many valuable instruc-
tions, which were cheering and encouraging to
his hearers.
	Bro. A. F. Stewart said, "All these Associa-
tions were necessary for the carrying on of the
work of God." Compared them to the wheels
of a watch;  each one was necessary to the other.
	Bro. Ellsworth had really enjoyed the meet-
ing and the remarks of the sisters; thought
many of them could beat the brethren speak-
ing;  thought this mission was established for an
Indian mission, and it was the duty of each
and every one to help sustain it. Spoke of the
duty of mothers in the training of their child-
ren. "Those who have done their duty in this
direction are our faithful sisters, those who at-
tend our meetings, and are always on hand to
do good."
	Officers of the Stake were then presented to
the conference and unanimously sustained.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald said how necessary it
was to keep the Spirit of God in our hearts in
every position in life. Gave good instruction
in regard to the raising of our children, and
teaching them day by day. "Remember those
where the head of the house is away; the situa-
tion of these sisters is not always understood."
Bore testimony that this is the Church and
kingdom of God. Conference adjourned for
three months. Singing, "God moves in a mys-
terious way." Benediction by Henry Rogers.
	SARAH M. POMEROY. Sec.

UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, held June 27th
1887, Sister John presiding with Couuselor
Emily G. Cluff, Sisters Horne and Zina D. H.
Young also present. Conference opened by 
singing and prayer; reading of minutes of
former conference etc.
	Sister John felt pleased that we had Sisters
Young and Horne with us who are able to edify
and instruct us. We live in a momentous
age but the Lord is with his people etc.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said, we have a great
deal to encourage, bless and oomfort us as a
people. I am pleased to have the sisters with
us to day, and we ought to strive to attend
these meetings. If we try we can so order our
work that we can gain time to attend meeting
and will be blessed in so doing.
	Sister Zina Young was very thankful to
meet with us again; had not met with us since
many of our dear sisters have been called away
to work in a wider sphere of usefulness. Our
reports show that we are humble and willing
to work. We are weak but God is our helper.
The path is plain before us;  let us each watch
our own feet;  let us strive for the Spirit of God
for when we have His Spirit our senses are satis-
fied. We can receive through prayer great bless-
ings. Let us cultivate the spirit of meekness and
kindness and be saviors upon Mount Zion etc.
	Sister Horne said, it was some time since
she had met with the sisters in Provo. Thought
we were blessed in these meetings; we can build
and be built up and if we would be more
punctual in attending these meetings, we should
gain spiritual food; we each have our own


[Column 1]

agency, and can accept or reject our salvation.
I thank the Lord daily that I am connected
with the Relief Society. The teachers have all
important mission; they should have prayer
before starting on their rounds of visiting they
should counsel the sisters to attend their meet-
ings, and advise them to read the Church works,
etc. We must not judge others or talk about 
them; we must guard well our thoughts and 
actions, and if we are faithful the Lord will
pour out his blessings upon us; advised the
young sisters to be careful with whom they as-
sociated, and not countenance young men that
were addicted to bad habits, and try to put
down evil in every way etc.
	After singing conference adjourned till 2
p.m.
	Conference opened at 2 p.m. with singing 
and prayer. Presidents Smoot and Cluff were
present.
	Sister Horne spoke again for a short time;
said we are co-workers with our brethren. We
need the Spirit of God to guide us in what we
do, we cannot comprehend the magnitude of
God's work; spoke of rendering honor to whom
honor is due, and each one working in her
own place and sphere. We shall be judged by
our own deeds etc. The Lord has complained
of our pride, our selfishness and selfwill and
said if we did not repent we should be
punished. The Lord suffers us to be perse-
cuted that we may be brought to remember
Him. We must keep our lamps trimmed and 
burning. Mothers set good examples before 
your children; teach them to be obedient; keep
them at home nights etc.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young desired the faith
and prayers of the sisters, the teachings that
we have had are food for the soul.
	Sister Horne has remarked on the time that
we should be classified; we cannot be promis-
cuous in our associations. Spoke of the evil
of Sabbath-breaking; and said the Lord was not
well pleased with us on that account; it takes
constant care to raise our children aright; culti-
vate faith in them, when we have enough faith
the Lord will come; spoke of the evil of letting
our children go to outside schools, make home
happy; never indulge in a fault-finding spirit,
and never forget your prayers;  spoke also in the
interest of the Silk Association, and advised the
sisters to persevere in raising cocoons, etc.
	Prest. Smoot spoke a short time;  felt that we
had had a feast of good teachings. Spoke of
our being in bondage to Babyon, in having to
get almost everything that we have from that
source. Said, "I hate bondage, when it can be
avoided. We can stand persecution for the
Gospel's sake, but not for vanity or pride. Let
the adornment of your bodies be the work of
your own hands," etc.
	Prest. Cluff followed with a few remarks,
calculated to encourage the sisters in good
works.
	Sister John felt that we had been amply
paid in coming to meeting. Said, "After sing-
ing we will adjourn for three months." Choir
sang, "Praise God, from whom all blessings
flow," etc.  Benediction by Prest A. O. Smoot.
	C. DANIELS, Sec.

	ALBION, CASSIA CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have intended for some time to send you a
report of our Relief Society. We were organ-
ized in September, 1884, by Bishop Horton D.
Haight and Wm. C. Martindale, of Oakley."
Our Society is known as the Albion Branch,
of the Cassia Ward, Box Elder Stake of Zion,
with the following named officers: Ada I.
Brim, President, Mary Lewis, and Rosabel A.
Brim, Counselors, Fannie L. Harper and Mary
Jones, Teachers, Althea Lewis, Secretary, Louie
Brim, Assistant Secretary, and Faunie L. Har-
per, Treasurer. There are only a few Latter-

[Column 2]

day Saints here, and we are surrounded with
those that are not of our faith, but they are
peaceable people, causing us no trouble what
ever. We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and they are very well attended, considering
the scattered condition of the sisters.
	We are few in number, but we enjoy a
goodly portion of the Spirit of the Lord. The
sisters are united and are very liberal in their
donations. Our Society has progressed very
favorably so far. There are no poor among us,
for which we feel grateful to our Heavenly
Father; that He sees fit to bless us all with
means to take care of ourselves. Hoping we
may ever retain the Spirit of the Lord to guide
us in all our good endeavors, and ever praying
for the welfare of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel of Christ.
		ADA I. BRIM, Prest.
		ALTHEA LEWIS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ANNUAL MEETING.
	Minutes of Annual Meeting of the Y.
L.	M. I. A. of the Seventh Ward held May
18th, 1887, President Sarah Eddington presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by
Bishop Wm. Thorne. Singing. Roll called, 
and minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved, after which the report of the Y. L.
meeting for the year ending May 13th, 1887,
was read by the Secretary. It was followed
by the programme exercises.
	An interesting correspondence, between Kate
Thomas and Alice McLachin was read. The
subjects touched upon in it were, revelation.
baptism for the dead, and the character and 
attributes of God. The 6th number of Vol.
4 of the Young Ladies' Journal, was read by
Alice Dinwoody. The paper was full of in-
structions, that would tend to elevate our 
morals, if put in practice. The congregation
then joined in singing the hymn, "The Spirit 
of God like a fire is burning."
	There were on the stand Prest. Angus M.
Cannon, Bishop Wm. Thorne, Coun. Thomas
H. Woodbury and R. K. Thomas; Sisters Tay-
lor, Dougall, Shipp, Lambert, Horne and others.
Remarks were made by Prest. Cannon, E. S.
Taylor, Maria Y. Dougall, Maggie Shipp and
M. I. Horne. They entreated the young ladies
to be virtuous and pure, to keep their characters
free from any stain, and urged them to prepare
themselves for the coming of the Savior, by
keeping His commandments and magnifying
our calling upon the earth; also made other en-
couraging remarks.
	A vote of thanks was tendered our visitors
for their presence and the good instructions
imparted by them.	
	The congregation then sang, "Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation." Benediction 
by Thomas H. Woodbury.
	After the meeting was over the company,
consisting of the members of the Relief Society,
the members of the Young Ladies' Association
and the visitors before mentioned, retired to 
the basement, where an excellent supper was 
prepared for them to make the evening more
enjoyable.
			ALICE MOLACIILAN, Sec.
	The following was composed by one of the
members of the Association for the Young
Ladies' Journal:
				A PRAYER,
	Our Father who in heaven doth reign
		In glory high above,
	Look down upon us here to-night,
		And fill us with Thy love.
	Thou knowest all our weakness, Lord,
		Thou searchest every heart;
	Oh bless and purify each soul,
		The Holy Ghost impart.
	That spirit which the things of God

[Column Two]

		Doth manifest to man,
	Brood o'er us while we study here
		The glorious Gospel plan.
	Thee do we ever wish to serve,
		And glorify Thy name.
	They testimony we desire,
		They presence to regain.
	Bless our Association, Lord,
		That we together may
	Unitedly and firmly stand,
		Fearless the trying day.
	And strengthen us that we may know
		Our feet are in the path.
	That road which leadeth back to Thee-
		The straight and narrow path.
	Our Father! here we dedicate
		Our future life to Thee;
	Do Thou accept and teach us how
		All wickedness to flee-
	To come to Thee in confidence
		Each weakness to confess,
	Proving how ready to forgive,
		How near Thou art to bless.
	Help us, dear Lord, to win Thy smile,
		Thy glory let us see;
	And when on earth our work is done,
		Oh, guide us home to Thee.


MAY-DAY CELEBRATION.

	The Primary Association of Woodruff, Ari- 
zona, met in the school house at 9 o'clock, on
the 7th of May, ult., for the purpose of cele-
brating May-day, presided over by President
Sally Ann Owens. The children sang "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer." Prayer was offered by
Bishop J. C. Owens. Next was a song by the
Maids of Honor, viz: Eliza Tenny, Bessie
Deans, Nettie Webb, Sarah Tennie, Aretha
Bates, Maud Owens, Pearl Cross, Corn Cross,
Nelly Webb, Irene Bates, Carrie Webb and
Zina Owens.
	The crowning of the Queen, Ruth Gardner,
was performed while the song was being sung,
which was excellently rendered. Next was a
speech by the Queen, as follows:

Dear friends and all relations we've assembled here to-day,
To give to all a celebration, on this the 7th of May,
It seems that you have choosen to elect me as  your queen,
May I set an example worthy to be seen;
I hope I may be able, with joy to fill my place,
That it may be an honor to me, and not as a disgrace.
And may I live more worthily, to reach a higher mood
In the estimation of my friends, and also of my God.

	Primary children then sang,"In Our Lovely
Deseret." Next was an opening address by
Charles Lillywhite. Bella Gardner then gave
a recitation entitled, "The Old Hat." Next
was questions and answers on the life of Joseph
Smith, by a small class of boys, conducted by
Mary E. Lillywhite. Recitation by a small
class of girls, conducted by Sylvia Owens, en-
titled, "The Floral Alphabet." Song by Mary
Owens and company, entitled, "To The Work."
A dialogue was given by two small boys, Guy
Gardner and Wilford Webb. Bella Garduer
and Joseph Deans then sang a comic song en-
titled, "The Bummers;" a song by the Maids
of Honor entitled "With Merry Hearts We
Leave Our Play;" the Lord's prayer, recited
by Eliza Owens and company; dialogue by
Frank and Milo Webb, entitled "The Young
Critie." Bishoy J. C. Owens then made a few
remarks, giving some good instructions to the
children. Brother Geo. B. Gardner also made
a few remarks. The President gave some good
advice. Singing "Lord, Dismiss Us." Benedic-
tion by Clark Owens.
	All then went home to refresh themselves.
The queen and her maids being invited, went
to the house of the President to dine. At 2
o'clock all met again at the school house, and
the little ones danced about two hours, during
which time refreshments were served. The
Bishop's wife, who had been sick about a year,
was present; all seemed glad to see her, and
well they might. Songs recitations, etc., were


given at intervals during the dancing, and all
seomed to enjoy themselves well. Counselors
Isabelle Webb and Ellen Bates and all took
an active part in the success of the entertain-
ment.
	SYLVIA OWENS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO BISHOP MADSEN.

	I must tell you something that certainly is
news, though it seems almost frivolous to talk
about pleasures in such times as we now live in.
About sixty of the good people of this place
assembled at our house on the 23rd, ult., the
Bishop's birthday, to give him a friendly sur-
prise. We had gone out to see the cane field,
and when we came back they were all awaiting
the Bishop. The weather was lovely; the gar-
den and porch afforded shady room for the
happy, friendly company. A table, at which
thirty people could sit at a time, was filled with
a bounteous picnic, and an elegant reclining-
chair, the gift of those assembled, to the
Bishop, was placed at the head of the table.
Bro. John E. Metcalf, First Counselor to the
Bishop, presided, and in a nice little speech
told the Bishop, in behalf of those present, how
happy they were to meet; and this was the way
they felt to express their good feelings for him,
and their appreciation of his labors among
them and for them. The Bishop was entirely
ignorant of anything going on, until he turned
to drive in through the gate; when it dawned
upon his mind what it meant; and he asked
me if I didn't know this, and I told him that I
did; but it was not customary to "tell."
	H. M.


NOTICE.

	The Stake officers of Y. L. M. I. A. are
hereby officially notified to prepare semi-annual
Stake reports, carefully, upon printed blanks,
and forward them as early as the 15th of
September, that a complete and satifactory re-
port may be made to the general conference in
October.
	Direct the reports to Miss Mary E. Cook,
323 E. Taiid South Street, Salt Lake City,
Utah.


[Column 1]
Dr. Romania B. Pratt,
Office and Residence at the Deseret Hospital,
Seventeenth Ward, Salt Lake City.

The Warm Springs car passes the Hospital, which
can also be reached by Telephone No. 269.

[Column 2]
﻿R.K. THOMAS

EAGLE EMPORIUM
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.

R. K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS

Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
Address. DAVID JAMES, Box 306. SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.

Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS.
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL.
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.

We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H. S. ELDREDGE. Supt.

Special to the Ladies.

AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies’ Misses’ and In-
ant's Shoes.
112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


﻿MISCELLANEOUS.

	Moral courage is the rarest of qualities, and
often maligned.
	Life is too short to be spent in minding other
people's business.
	Faith steps in to our aid when our boasted
knowledge and reason fail.
	It is the reply rather than the statement
that makes the quarrel.—E. P. Day.
	Uneducated men may escape intellectual de-
gradation; uneducated women cannot.—Sid-
ney Smith.
	What men want is not talent, it is purpose;
in other words, not the power to achieve, but
the will to labor.—Bulwer Lytton.
	If the poet be correct in his morals, his verse
will partake of the same purity; the pen is the
tongue of the mind, and what his conceptions
are, such will be his productions.—Cervantes.


﻿OBITUARIES.

	Died at Coveville, Cache Co., Utah, on May the 19th,
1887, of paralysis, Emma Bloomfield. She was born at
Bungary Suffolk, England, March 18th, 1827. Was bap-
tized into the Church by John Bloomfield, Nov. 3rd, 1853,
after which she emigrated to Utah, and settled at Franklin.
In October, 1861, she was married to Isaac Vaile, and
lived in the order of celestial marriage till her husband was


called away to labor in another sphere. She afterwards
married Mark Preece, who was a widower with a family of
small children, and Sister Emma, never having been blest
with children of her own, took the motherless children to
her heart and has been a mother to them indeed. About
thirteen years ago she moved with her husband to Cove-
ville, where she resided till her death. When the Relief 
Society of this ward was organized she was set apart as
president, which position she honorably and nobly fulfilled
till sickness compelled her to resign. For many years she
has been a sufferer; but she bore her afflictions with forti-
titude, and waited patiently for the time to come when she
would have the privilege of joining those dear ones who
have gone before—where, free from pain and sorrow in the
mansions of the blessed, her spirit would be free. Of Sister
Emma it may truly be said, blessed are the dead that die in
the Lord. She has kept the faith, she has fought the good
fight, and her reward is sure. Her memory and her acts of
kindness will long live in the hearts of her numerous friends.
She died as she had lived, a faithful Latter-day Saint; and
in full hopes of a glorious resurrection.

	While here she was one of the faithful,
		Who walked in the fear of the Lord;
	Her death, like the righteous, was peaceful,
		With them she'll inherit reward.

	She's gone to the bright habitation,
		Where truth's martyred worthies remain,
	To aid in the song of salvation
		Till Christ on the earth comes to reign.

			JANE R. BIGGS.


﻿IN MEMORY OF MARY JANE CREER.

	Mary Jane Creer, daughter of Willard Orson and Emma
Creer, was born Jan. 22nd, 1876 in Spanish Fork City, and
died June 11th, 1887.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst our much loved sister and associate, Mary
Jane Creer.
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of the
Primary Association of Spanish Fork, do truly sympathize
with her parents in their sad bereavement; for we realize
that our much loved sister was an amiable and exemplary
child. She was a regular attendant at our Primary meet-
ings, and was always punctual in whatever she promised to
do, and was much beloved by all her associates; she has 
left a record worthy of imitation.
	Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be presented to
her parents, one sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
one kept upon our Primary record.

	Mary Jane was called away
	From Sunday School and Primary, 
	And we miss the gentle face
	From its long accustomed place.
	Happy child! She learned in youth
	Principles of life and truth;
	And	all the good she gained while here,
	Will aid her in a brighter sphere.
	Her spirit mingles with the blest,
	Her body in the grave will rest
	Until the resurrection morn'
	Long promised, on the world shall dawn.
			HANNAH CORNABY.

		ELIZA G. JEX, Prest.
		CAROLINE PACE,
		MARY J. MORRISON, Counselor
		HANNAH JEX, Sec.


﻿DIED. Elizabeth Barber, aged 78 years and two months,
at the house of her son-in-law, Saml. Pike, on the 1st of
August. Her remains were buried in Logan Cemetery on
Wednesday 3rd, inst. She embraced the Gospel in the
early days of the Church at Birmingham, England, and
emigrated in 1870. She endured much suffering from in-
flammatory rheumatism and dropsy for many years with
great fortitude and patience. She was a mild, wise woman,
and left five children to mourn her loss.
		EMMA PIKE.
Logan City, Utah, Aug. 5th, 1787.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

