VOL. 16.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1887.	NO. 2.


A DAY IN THE WOODS.

Sunshine! bright, welcome sight,
	Driving care away;
Perfume rare fills the air
	On this balmy day.

Birdies sing, echoes ring,
	Rippling waters play:
With children four we leave the door,
	And to the woods we stray.

Merry shout, ringing out,
	In the forest shade;
Blossoms rare, gathered there,
	And bright garlands made.

Hours gay, pass away,
	Then the lunch we spread,
Under trees, with spreading leaves,
	Branching overhead.

Luncheon relished, all are nourished,
	Lively jest goes round;
Merry laughter follows after,
	Makes the woods resound,

Shady bowers, restful hours,
	Fill our hearts with love!
In heartfelt praise, our voices raise
	To One who dwells above.

Zephyrs sighing, day is dying,
	Footsteps homeward roam.
In this way we passed a day
	Near our mountain home.

		MAY L. MARLER.
Soda Springs, April 27, 1886.


LIFE'S SCHOOL.

I sat in the school of sorrow,
	The Master was teaching there,
And my eyes were dim with weeping,
	And my heart was full of care,
Instead of looking upward
	And seeing His face divine,
So full of the tenderest pity
	For weary hearts like mine.

I only thought of the burden,
	The cross that before me lay,
So hard and heavy to carry
	That it darkened the light of day.
So I could not learn my lesson,
	And say, "Thy will be done,"
And the Master came not near me
	As the weary hours rolled on.

At last, in my heavy sorrow,
	I looked from the cross above,
And I saw the Master watching
	With a glance of tender love.
He turned to the cross before me,
	I thought I heard Him say,
"My child, thou must bear thy burden,
	And learn thy task to-day."

I may not tell the reason,
	'Tis enough for thee to know
That I, the Master, am teaching,
	And give thee this cup of woe."
So I stooped to that heavy sorrow,
	One look at that face divine
Had given me power to trust Him,
	And say, "Thy will, not mine."

And then I learned my lesson,
	Taught by the Master alone!
He only knows the tears I shed,
	For He has shed His own.
But from them comes a brightness
	Straight from the home above,
Where the school life will be ended,
	And the cross will show the love.—Selected.


[Column 1]

DESERET UNIVERSITY.

ADDRESS OF CHANCELLOR O. F. WHITNEY.

Mr. President, Professors and Fellow-Stu-
dents:—

	For we are all students—if not in this Uni-
versity, in the University of life, the school of
human experience.
	I am not vain enough to suppose, in address-
ing you for a short time on this interesting oc-
casion, that I shall say anything new and start-
ling. To be original, in the sense of creating
something new, in an age like ours, and in a
world where history has so often repeated it-
self as to make each generation almost a pla-
giarism of its predecessors, is to be more than
"one man picked out of ten thousand," it is to
be an anomaly and a marvel in the eyes of
mankind.
	An editor once advised his readers to carry
with them a pencil and tablets, and be ready to
jot down any new idea that came into their
minds. Another editor observed sarcastically,
that some of them might carry the pencil a
thousand years, and not wear off the original
point.
	All that ordinary mortals can hope, at
this late day, I presume, is to pluck the fruit from
trees of others' planting, and by the various
methods of cookery known to this generation—
if I may use the figure—strive to make our
offering as acceptable as possible.
	There is an originality, however, which I be-
lieve it is the privilege of all men to exercise;
and not only their privilege, but their bounden
duty. It is to be original in the sense of being
independent, honest, conscientious, in all that
we say and do; in other words, to be original
in the sense of being true to ourselves.
	Says Shakespeare:

		To thine own self be true,
	And it must follow, as the night the day,
	Thou canst not then be false to any man.

	One of the greatest needs of humanity, in
all ages, is men and women of originality; of
truthfulness, sincerity, genuine motives and in-
dependence of character; men and women who
think for themselves, and dare to act according
to their thinking. As the present age is no ex-
ception, and I am speaking to some of the men
and women of the present and the future, it
will not be out of place for me to continue on
the subject I have begun.
	At first thought, it may seem a simple matter,
a very easy task, to be true to one's self; that
is, to be one's self, and not another; to defend
and serve self, when necessary; and to deny
self, when wisdom and duty dictate; to listen
to and obey the "still small voice" of con-
science, the voice of God in the human heart,
no matter how self-interest with silver tongue
may plead, or how darkly dangers may threaten;
to stand as a light-house on the storm-beaten
coast, unmoved by wind or wave, sending the
light of a heroic example over the tempestuous
waters, as a beacon of hope and of warning to
others.
	Let those who will, think it simple and easy.
Simple it may be—for simplest things are, as
a rule, the greatest—but to put such things in
practice has required, in all ages, the Hercu-
lean efforts and lion-like courage of earth's
giant souls.
     Says Emerson: "It is easy, in the world, to

[Column 2]

live after the world's opinion; it is easy, in soli-
tude, to live after our own; but the great man
is he, who, in the midst of the crowd, keeps,
with perfect sweetness, the independence of his
character."
	Independence of character does not consist
in a disposition to quarrel and contend on
every point at issue between us and our
neighbors. "Noise and fury" no more signify
independence, than the smoke and thunder of
battle tell the nature of the cause for which the
armies are contending. Silence and rest may
be quite as independent, and are often far more
dignified, than speech and action.
     The great man, the man of independence,
thinks, speaks and acts for himself. He will
never be found doing a thing, or saying a thing,
simply because it is popular. He will dare to
be himself, though the whole world oppose him.
He neither coincides in order to win favor, nor
opposes for opposition's sake. He will side
with the many, or with the few, according as
his conscience dictates. He is broad and liberal
in his views, and tolerant of the views of others.
He will dare to defend the weak against the
strong, and will never be found trampling on
the defenseless. No man is great, no man is
brave, no man is free, who feels or acts other-
wise.

	"They are slaves who fear to speak
	For the fallen and the weak;
	They are slaves who will not choose
	Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
	Rather than in silence shrink
	From the truth they needs must think;
	They are slaves who dare not be
	In the right, with two or three."

	Conscience makes cowards of all who fear to
follow her; and bigotry, intolerance—that
worst of tyrants—binds its votaries, far more
than its victims, in chains of veriest slavery.
	But let us consider the subject in some of its
lighter phases.
	It is always a sign of weakness, in real life,
to be an imitator; to be a mirror, as it were, of
other men's manners, or the echo of other
men's words and ideas. Such things be-
long to childhood or to the mimic stage. God
intended man to be original, to act his own
part in life's drama, to speak his own lines, and
no one else's.
	Even the actor, whose profession is to imitate,
to "hold the mirror up to nature" and the per-
fection of whose art is "the highest imitation
of nature;" even he must be original, or he
will never achieve greatness. There is an imi-
tation which even imitators must avoid—(ex-
cept it be in burlesque,—and that is the imita-
tion of each other's style of acting. Variety
is necessary. One Edwin Booth is enough.
One Sara Bernhardt is sufficient. We do not
care to see them duplicated in every supernu-
merary around them.
	The same holds good in literature. Turning
down the collar and drinking wine out of a 
skull goblet do not make a Lord Byron, by
any means. It may make a laugh, but it will
be at the expense of the simpleton who causes
it. "The poet is born, not made," and every
poet sent into the world must sing his own song,
and not another's, or the world will be little
better for his singing.
	Affectation of any kind is disgusting. It is
falsehood; it is theft; it is sinning against na-
ture. The young man, American-born, who
goes to England a Yankee, and comes back a
Cockney, exchanging his native nasal twang


bad as it is, for something insufferably worse—
a cultivated cold in the head; borrowing from
over the sea a foreign accent and mannerism,
simply because "its English you know," may
be the beau ideal of what is
termed a "dude," but that is about
the severest thing I would care to say of him.
	No more admirable—with all due regard for
gallantry—is the young lady who visits New
York, London or Paris, and comes back gazing
with eye-glasses and amazement at every object
familiar to her since childhood, and asks all
sorts of questions, that would puzzle the in-
vention of a hack-driver to answer, about Salt
Lake, Ogden or Provo—her birthplace.
	Be original, be genuine, despise affectation.
No man can be that which he is not. Sooner
or later he will be known for what he is, and
souls, like water, will seek and find their level.
Disgrace and failure await those who stand in
false positions, and who try—oh how vainly!—
to be any one but themselves.
	The lapdog in the fable delighted his master
by leaping upon him and stroking him with
his paws. But the poor donkey who tried to
play the lapdog, nearly killed his master, and
was soundly thrashed for his folly.
	Young man or young woman just commenc-
ing life! Be true to yourself; act your own
character; live the life for which you were in- 
tended, and you will succeed and be honored,
as surely as God intended you should. But if
you strive to be another than yourself, or to fill
a place for which you were never designed,
you will fall, as would fall the exotic before
an Arctic blast, or melt like the iceberg in the
tropics.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

SIMILARITY BETWEEN OUR POSI-
TION AND THAT OF THE
EARLY SAINTS.

	The threats and boasting which we have
heard from the would-be demolishers of Zion's
bulwarks, and the vain attempts that they have
made to bring about this end, has often re-
minded me of a story told of a certain rich
man who built a high and powerful wall for
the protection of his estate, which was as thick
as it was high, and cemented together so that
it was impenetrable, defying all the attacks
that were made upon him, which invariably
ended in the chagrin and discomforture of his
foes. After trying many times without success
they bethought themselves that the wall might
be turned over could they find men enough to
unite in this plan. They sent far and near and
gathered up a mighty host, and the feat was
accomplished, but lo, and behold their dismay
when finding the wall still standing as high and
strong as before, shutting them away from the
coveted treasures which they had sought so hard
and so long to obtain. The would-be destroyers
of the latter day Israel might as well under-
take the task of removing these mountains, or
stopping the mouth of the volcano which has
lately opened in the Sierra Madre, pouring forth
its boiling water and vast waves of lava, and
boulders weighing tons, hurling down from the
crater, filling up the cañons, and destroying
all vegetation in the valleys in that vicinity, as
to try to impede the growth of this mighty
work, or the filling up of these valleys by the
emigration from the various nations on this
earth, and from the world of spirits which God
has declared should be, and has set His hand
to accomplish.
	We do not claim that the wisdom, knowledge,
or power of man has held together the people
called "Mormons," as the world are lead to be-
lieve, but that of the Great Master, who has
founded it upon the Rock of Ages. For the
profit of those who are inclined to doubt this,
and its being what it represents, the Zion that
was to be "established in the tops of the moun-
tains," preparatory to the second and glorious

[Column 2]

advent of the King of kings. I submit the
following from the history of the primitive
Christians during the three first centuries: The
Jews "employed the most rigorous punishment
to compel them to blaspheme and renounce
Jesus Christ. They cursed them three times a
day in their synagogues, and their rabbies
would not suffer them to converse with Chris-
tians on any occasion. Nor were they contented
to hate and detest them, but they dispatched
emissaries all over the world to defame them.
They accused them, among other things, of
worshipping the sun and the head of an ass;
they reproached them with idleness and being
a useless set of people. They charged them
with treason, and endeavoring to erect a new
monarchy against that of the Romans. They
affirmed that, in celebrating their mysteries,
they used to kill a child and eat its flesh. They
accused them of the most shocking incests, and
of intemperance in their feasts of charity. But
the lives and behavior of the first Christains
were sufficient to refute all that was said against
them, and evidently demonstrated that these
accusations were mere calumny, and the effect
of inveterate malice."
	When they were interrogated in order to
learn, "whether they were really Christians,"
they were threatened "with death if they did
not renounce this religion." And because
they "persisted in their confession" they were
lead to punishment by order of the governor of
Pontus ad Bythinia," though they declared
that "their whole crime, if they were guilty,
consisted in this: That on certain days they
assembled "before the sun rise to sing alternate-
ly the praises of Christ, as of God, and to
oblige themselves by the performance of their
religious rites, not to be guilty of theft, or
adultery; to observe inviolably their word, and
to be true to their trust." The governor to in-
form himself still farther of this matter, put
"to the torture two of their women servants."
whom they called "deaconesses;" "But," he
says, "I could learn nothing more from them
than that the superstition of this people is as
ridiculous as their attachment to it is astonish-
ing." "The purity of the Christian morality,"
which was "directly opposite to the corruption
of the Pagans, was one of the most powerful
motives of the public aversion' that was felt
towards them, and the prejudice was so strong
against them because of the calumnies that
were unjustly spread about by their enemies,
that the Pagans condemned them without in-
quiring into their doctrine, or permitting them
to defend themselves."	*	*	"But,
notwithstanding the violent opposition made to
the establishment of the Christain religion, it
gained ground daily, and very soon made sur-
prising progress in the Roman empire. In the
third century there were Christians in the
camp, in the senate and in the palace; in short,
everywhere but in the temples and theatres;
they filled the towns, the country and the
islands. Men and women of all ages and con-
ditions, and even those of the first dignities
embraced the faith; insomuch that the Pagans
complained that the revenues of their temples
were ruined. They were in such great num-
bers in the empire, that, as Tertullian expresses
it, "were they to have retired into another coun-
try, they would have left the Romans only a
frightful solitude."
	What the Latter-day Saints have received
from the hands of professed Christians for over
half a century is so similar to what was inflicted
upon them in those days, that one would sup-
pose that no intelligent believer in the Scrip-
tures could help setting them down as the only
true followers of Christ. The other sects have
no warfare with man or devil. He has no fear 
from those who deny the spirit of prophecy and
revelation, etc., and unite in persecuting those
who listen to the testimony of the Holy Ghost,
and accept God's word, who declared that

[Column 3]

"miraculous signs shall follow them that believe."
No principle or organization in this Church
ever originated in the brain of Joseph Smith,
or Brigham Young, but were revealed from on
high, and put in practice by a free, God-loving
and God-fearing people, who sought and ob-
tained a testimony for themselves from the high-
est source. And this is the secret of their will-
ingness to walk together in a newness of life,
and their anxiety to gather to the fountain
head, that they may feast more fully upon the
word of God, being no longer satisfied with the
chaff,and this is why so many,many thousands of
the various nations are flocking yearly to these
valleys. This is what enables the humble
Saint to endure so calmly and patiently the
scoffs of the world, and to be "beaten with many
stripes," and even to lay down their lives like
the ancient followers of our beloved Savior.
	In the beginning, this Church was made up
of the descendants of men and women who
were accustomed to defending themselves
against unlawful encroachments whenever or
wherever their rights were infringed upon, and
to resent the same; but the Gospel of Christ en-
ables them to subdue that feeling to a great ex-
tent, and to endure many wrongs rather than to
do wrong.
	As unlikely as it may seem to those not con-
versant with the history of those early times,
some of the very principles which the Saints
were ridiculed, scourged, and many laid down
their lives for advancing—being considered
doctrines of devils—have since been caught up
and taught in some new light, but which had
been perfectly familiar to the Latter-day Saints
from their first adoption into the faith of the
true Gospel. Among the reasons given for per-
secuting them in the beginning was that they
believed and accepted what their enemies in
their ignorance deemed a new doctrine, which
had been introduced by a poor, obscure, and
unlearned boy, and who claimed to have seen
and conversed with holy messengers, that were
sent to deliver the everlasting Gospel in its
purity, as taught by our Savior anciently. All
new revelations were considered heresies, and
in their blindness and superstition the Chris-
tians pronounced them blasphemous and pre-
posterous, the same as did the wise judges and
Pharisees in the case of the poor Nazarene,
who sprang from obscurity and practiced his
"artifice" among the low, ignorant and profane,
but whose influence at last extended to persons
of wealth and standing, won over to the faith
of this "Sabbath breaker," who dared to travel,
to pluck corn on that day. and even to help up
the ox that had fallen into a ditch, and had
broken over their pious rules to that extent
that in their hot displeasure those scrupulous
souls, thinking their holy synagogues were pol-
luted, and finding their efforts useless to render
this man obnoxous to his followers, thirsted for
his blood until their malignant and fiendish de-
sires were satiated in the torture and agonies of
the son of God. No other reasons were brought
forward for this persecuting, mobbing, killing
and driving the people from the borders of civi-
lization. "Mormon" plural marriage did not
vex the souls of our torturers at that period of
our history. Not long since we were told that
this was the only thing that was offensive in
"Mormonism," and that if we would lay this
aside "and become like them" we should be pro-
tected, and all would be well. But we were
aware that this was but "moonshine," and if we
gave up one principle there would be other re-
quirements made at our hands, all of which we
were very soon called to experience. Like the
Jews, they close their eyes and their ears to
truth, mercy and justice, and would, like them,
cry, "Crucify Him, crucify Him," were Christ to
come to them in the guise of a carpenter's
son.
		HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	May 2nd, 1887.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE COMING OF THE SON OF MAN.

A trump shall sound both long and loud,
And all the earth shall quake,
	Ere Jesus Christ, the Son of God,
	Shall come and dwell upon the sod
At Zion's centre Stake.

And ere that great and glorious day
Great signs are to be given;
	The sun shall hide its rays of light,
	And day shall be as dark as night,
And stars shall fall from heaven.

The moon as crimson blood shall turn,
Woe to the fields of corn;
	Descending hail shall beat and spoil
	The growing crops upon the soil,
And men shall weep and mourn.

And in that day God's wrath shall fall,
So great His indignation;
	Strange pestilence shall infest the land,
	And evil doers shall not stand
God's vengeance and vexation.

And in the earth, deep underneath,
Shall be a rumbling sound,
	As distant thunder heard to roll,
	And earth shall shake from pole to pole,
Above and under ground.

The tides shall leap their present bounds;
So great is the commotion 
	The hearts of men on earth shall fail, 
	And woe to those whose hoisted sail
Is sailing on the ocean.
	
A second angel trump shall sound,
And through the heavens flying,
	The angel shall he heard to say,
	"'Tis God Almighty's judgment day"—
All men shall hear him crying.

A wondrous sign shall then appear
Midst heaven's liquid space,
	And men shall see it with their eyes,
	While yet it tarries in the skies,
Ere Christ shall show His face.

And then the great and glorious day
Hath come, the pure in heart
	Shall be caught up from earth to greet
	The Son of Man, whom they shall meet—
The wicked shall depart.

Then Christ shall dwell with men on earth
To the Millennium's end;
	To Him who for our sins hath died,
	Whom men on earth hath crucified,
All knees on earth shall bend.

Who shall be ready in that day
To have their sentence passed,
	By Him whose ever searching eye
	Into our secret thoughts can pry?
The first may then be last.

Be merciful, O God! and kind,
We are Thy children all;
	And in that great and glorious day,
	Our sentence, be it what it may,
Let vengeance lightly fall.

		A. A. TANNER.
Oakley, Idaho, April 30, 1887.


[Column 1]

HOUSEHOLD ECONOMY.

	Household economy is a subject that every
famiiy ought to understand, whether rich or
poor. Economy is a great blessing, especially
to those who are in a measure restricted in the
comforts of life. All people should study to
provide for themselves according to their means
or station in life.
	Never go in debt for one dollar unless you
can see your way clearly through. It is no dis-
grace to wear poor clothes; better that than
good ones not paid for. Never purchase any-
thing too costly to correspond with your be-
longings, as it will only create a desire for more

[Column 2]

to match it, and it is easier to suppress the first
desire than all that follow it, and one is apt to
go beyond her means if she make such a begin-
ning. Make what you have look as nice as you
can, and don't envy your neighbors what they
have if it is better than yours. We ought to
be able to create a public sentiment in favor of
economy. By careful economy, living within
our means and saving a little, we may enter the
road of assured prosperity. It is that which is
saved, not what is made, which constitutes na-
tional as well as individual wealth. Never be
ashamed of economy; study it, practice it, make
a duty and a pleasure of it. We are taught
that it is a sin to waste, therefore let us remem-
ber, when our meals are over, to save what is
left, and make sure of it in some way. Never
throw a piece of bread away, as stale bread
makes very nice puddings, and may be made
use of in several ways. Study how you can
use up the scraps and bits to make dishes
nourishing and palatable. A great many have
the knack of using them up in a very appetiz-
ing way. Of course the leavings from dishes,
kettles, etc., can be given to domestic animals.
You may say these are trifles, but one's life is
made up of seconds, and many cents make a
dollar.
	We should be economical with all household
belongings. If the furniture gets scratched,
varnish it; if the carpets get soiled, wash and
color them, and don't think when things begin
to look shabby that they must be replaced by
new ones, but study how you can make them
look nice and last as long as possible. As far
as you can use ornaments, laces, tidies, rugs,
mats, etc., and try to make home look pleasant
and attractive. In this way it may be nice
with very little expense. There is no truer
economy than a little good taste. What you
have, have it neat and nice. There is no real
comfort in extravagance or display of style or
pride, but economy is a virtue of life-long bene-
fit.
	Industry and economy go hand in hand, and
idleness creates mischief. Never spend an idle
moment, and you are not apt to be led into by
and forbidden paths. Remember, sister, you
may some day be a wife and mother, and will
make or mar a future household. Every girl
should be taught the business of housekeeping
in all its departments (whether rich or poor)
and it can be well acquired only by each one
taking an active part in the household duties.
With the united efforts and industry of a whole
family it is sure to become prosperous and
happy; and on the other hand, if each one is
extravagant and wasteful and selfish, destroy-
ing all that comes within her reach, regard-
less of time or expense, are apt to, sooner or
later, be brought down to poverty and misery.
And suppose the means does hold out, what
a bad example to set for those that are growing
up and learning the ways of the world. We
should let our light so shine that others can
profit by our example, and always be willing
to impart to others that which we have acquired
through study or invention, as we are in duty
bound to help others all we can. If you know
how to do housework or fancy work never
think you are too busy to teach others, for in
so doing you enable others to economize as well
as yourself.
	What a nice scene is the household work!
The mother assisted by her daughters, all things
in order, nothing going to waste, work done
well and systematically, a place for everything
and everything in its place, a time for work,
a time for books and a time for everything;
each one takes an interest in the house-
hold, consequently they love to stay at
home, love one another's society, always happy
and contented, and think there is no place like
home.
	Let no one think household economy mean
or anything to be ashamed of, neither suppose

[Column 3]

that no ability is needed to practice it. When
we can see how much it embraces, we can
plainly see that there is an ample field for
exercise of the most enlightened education.
Book learning is also needed; there is every day
occasion for its use, and the more readily
artistic knowledge is applied in domestic affairs,
the more readily the work is done, and the
more pleasure is given to the participants there-
in.
	We are not only amply paid ourselves by
practicing economy, but just see how much
better the heads of the family will feel, and
how much happier and more contented they
are when they see everyone striving to help
herself and to help one another, and if we
learn to economize in small things we are sure
to in large ones.
		C. E. W.


A LEAF FROM MY JOURNAL.

	During my stay in India, I was invited one
afternoon in the month of May by a gentle-
man friend, to visit a convent and witness the
imposing ceremony or rather celebration of
Corpus Christi which means the body of Christ.
The celebration consisted of a large procession
of priests, nuns and a mixed assemblage of
men women and children of the Roman Catho-
lic persuasion.
	It was headed by a Bishop of the Catholic
Church, and who is in that denomination a
very high and sacred dignitary. He was
dressed in a rich sacerdotal robe of gold and
silk; under him, carried by twelve acolytes,
was a beautiful silken canopy with gold and 
silver fringe, and before him on a small elabor-
ately designed platform was the model of a 
beautiful temple of pure gold, of about two
feet in height and must have weighed between
forty and fifty pounds, for it seemed to be
very laborious work for the two priests who
carried it. Inside this temple was supposed to
be the body of Christ.
	Numberless native converts were in attend-
ance dressed very neatly, swaying large and
handsome fans over the bishop and priest; and
others with large trays of refreshments as the
weather was extremly hot.
	The procession and ceremonies were confined
within the beautiful grounds of the convent,
which were very extensive and most tastefully
laid out. After the procession was formed, the
convent bell rang out a chant which was a sign
to move. The priests set up a kind of a wail
in Latin. Then the bishop would take up
he refrain, and after proceeding for a short
distance, he would stop, and the vast multi-
tude fell upon their knees. Then the priests
clustered around the temple and bowed down
to it.
	It seemed to me they were offering their
adoration to the precious metal instead of to
any Deity. This farce lasted about four hours.
I felt thankful to my Heavenly Father that I
was privileged to be a Latter-day Saint, that
I knew better than worship idols, for the Lord
has said, "Thou shalt worship no other God."
		H. F. McCUNE.
Nephi.


A door-plate in Berlin, Germany, bears the
names of three doctors. One is Dr, Tiburtius,
a staff physician; the second is his wife, the
first woman dentist in Berlin, and a graduate
of the Philadelphia School of Dentistry; the
third is the sister of the first, Fransiska Tibur-
tius, a graduate of Zurich, and who, with Miss
Lemus, has charge of a dispensary for poor
women. There are twelve women practicing
dentistry in Germany who were students of
American colleges.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah Terms:
one copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months, $1.00. Ten
copies for the price of nine.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount
o regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, No. 25 E., South Temple Street, second
gate east of Deseret News Office. Business hours from 10 a.m.
o 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH.

SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	JUNE 15, 1887.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.

	The present time is really an important one in
the history of Utah and must certainly be so con-
sidered by every thoughtful person. The enforce-
ment of the Edmunds-Tucker law has worked
very great hardship, and has been ruinous to the
homes heretofore happy and prosperous, to say
nothing of the broken hearts and blighted lives,
and even cruel deaths of women and children;
these may be looked upon as trifles by those who
are so determined to "disestablish the "Mormon"
Church" and "wipe out polygamy" little things
like these must not stand in the way, certainly not
when they talk about putting to the sword but
assuredly sooner or later there will come a terrible
day of reckoning.
	The peculiar political situation of the Territory
causes uncertainty in business ventures and is
calculated to work the most serious injury to the
best interests of those, who have striven hard to
maintain a permanent condition of temporal pros-
perity for the whole people. It has not been such
an easy matter as some have vainly imagined to
build up this country, with the few resources at
hand, remembering as the early settlers will, that in
former days everything had to be brought more
than a thousand miles overland, and the facilities
within reach were very few for making homes and
building up towns and cities; teams were poor,
there were no "thorough breds" nor "Jerseys and
Durhams" in those days and it was the bone and
sinew of the people that brought about the almost
marvelous changes that transpired in these valleys
of the mountains during the first few years of the
sojourn of the Latter-day Saints here.
	It is not much of a wonder that the veritable peo-
ple of Utah should be interested in her welfare con-
sidering the exertions they have made to make
this a desirable abiding-place, a fruitful garden, a
place of refuge and peace for the weary wanderers,
hunted and driven, persecuted and oppressed for
their religious belief, more than for the practice of
the principles they professed. Who should be so
deeply, so intensely interested for Utah, as those
who actually come here and searched out this
"chosen land," and planted the American flag here
for the first time? Reason and common sense
tell us that it is but simple justice to consider in
any country its founders. The Latter-day Saints
love liberty and freedom, the freedom guaranteed
by the Constitution of the United States. That
freedom was denied to them, and they were ex-
iled from the homes they had made on the banks
of the Mississippi, where they had built up a
flourishing city; they were compelled, at the risk
of all they held dear to make a long journey in-
land to a place then unknown, that they might be
free from molestation, and enjoy the rights and
privileges of true born men and women. This
they did in the face of difficulties and privations
of various kinds, and without any spirit of hatred
towards those who had cast them forth, as it were,
to perish, for it was a perilous undertaking with
such scant preparations as could be hurriedly

[Column 2]

made in the middle of a severe winter, across
what was then known as the Western Frontiers.
Many died by the way, and their resting places
are not even marked, their deaths were untimely
and their graves are unknown, save to Him who
watches over all, and without whose knowlege
not even a sparrow falls to the ground. Many of
those who were spared through all the privations
and hardships, suffered from hunger, cold and fa-
tigue more than can ever be told in words,they have
rightfully earned an inheritance and should be at
least allowed some privileges, and not expected to
bow meekly down and tamely submit to the dicta-
tion of those who have come here when all was
fair weather and clear sailing, on purpose to pos-
sess themselves of whatever advantages the coun-
try afforded, after the land was subdued and made
fertile, the roads and bridges made and the wild
beasts destroyed, and in their arrogance assuming,
because of the unpopularity of the people, who
had made the Territory, superior rights—and de-
clare themselves to be the only "truly loyal citi-
zens" of this great and glorious Republic. The
people of Utah are entitled to local self-govern-
ment; as the jurisdiction of Congress over
the Territories is now understood or misunderstood
there are few rights allotted to those whose mis-
fortune it is to live in a Territory, and therefore as
soon as conditions and population warrant such a 
step, it ought to be the duty of the people to take
such initiatory steps as will open the way for their
admission into the union as a state, that they may
have such a standing as will give them prestige
and rank equal with others, who have long ago out
grown and thrown off their swaddling clothes, and
stand on equal footing with the oldest and the
grandest state in the union, so far as representa-
tion is concerned.
	There could be no more practicable or safe
method for Congress to dispose of the Mormon
problem, that has vexed and perplexed their over-
righteous souls so much and so long, than to ad-
mit Utah into the Union as a state. Probably the
Hon. J. Randolph Tucker would exclaim, Utah
was not a Christian country; he affirmed that this
domain belonged to the United States, and was
wanted for Christian homes; he puts a curious con-
struction upon the term Christian—when he dis-
putes the rights of Latter-day Saints to be entitled
to the term, but as he will not probably have any-
thing official to say in the matter, not having been
returned as a member of Congress, his opinion
will not hurt the cause. And it may come to pass,
after all, that the long wished for boon—statehood
—may be conferred upon Utah, and the people be
in a position to have a voice not only in the local
affairs, but in the national issues on which so much
of the public weal depends. However, the salva-
tion of this people does not depend upon statehood,
not at all. It is an American idea, and has been
engrafted in the education of all American people;
it would give a sort of independence that is inher-
ent in those born in this great and free Republic,
and this feeling is in harmony with the Gospel, but 
if temporal prosperity, such as might possibly result
from becoming a "free and sovereign state,"
should lead this people away into darkness and
error, and to become political demagogues and par-
tisnas, then better be without it. Therefore, one
should feel in this case as in many others, that
"whatever is is right," and after having made the
effort, leave all in the hands of Him who knows
what is for the best and highest good of His chosen
people.


[Column 1]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have been favored this season with bouquets
of choice flowers and June roses, fragrant with
sweet perfume, and gracefully given as tokens of
love and esteem from dear friends. Among the
number we recall Sisters Martha McKay, Jane
Cowan, M. M. Barratt, Sarah Jane Cannon, Betsy

[Column 2]

C. Glover, the Misses Wells, the Misses Young,
Misses Woods, Miss Judith Rice and Mr. James
Dwyer.  It is always pleasant to be remembered
with such beautiful gifts, that give expression to
the most delicate sentiments of the human heart.
What would the world be without flowers, silent
messengers of love and friendship abounding with
eloquence?
	MR. EDWARD W. TULLIDGE'S play of Cromwell,
which was written by him some years ago, and
afterwards revised, will be put upon the stage at
the Salt Lake Theatre, on Friday evening, June
24th. It is said by critics and reviewers hereabout
to be an admirable work, and that it does the
author great credit. We hope and trust the pre-
sentation will be a financial as well as a literary
success. Mr. John S. Lindsey takes the leading
part in the gentlemen's role, Miss Georgie Hayne
leading lady. The writings of Mr. Tullidge have
been decidedly popular in and outside Utah, and
the author deserves from the public a crowded
house and liberal patronage, and the play itself
has such merit as entitles it to  be heard and seen
not only here at home among his friends, but
ought to win for him popularity and success
abroad.
	ON Friday, May 20th, 1887, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's
class in obstetrics passed successful examinations,
Drs. W. F. Anderson, H. J. Richards and A. S.
Bowers being the examining board. Certificates
of study were issued to the following named
ladies: Mrs. Mantie J. Shipp, Beaver; Mrs. 
Anna Mohr, Arizona; Mrs. Olive Stringham,
Holden; Miss Martha Merkley, St, Charles; Miss
Minnie and Annie Christenson, Gunnison; Miss
Katie Wells and Miss Annie Richards, Salt Lake
City. After the preliminary exercises, the after-
noon was spent in feasting on the good things of
the earth both physically, intellectually and artisti-
cally. Dr. Shipp has done a great deal of work in
this way, and enters into her labors with a zeal and
energy that ensures success. She aims to have her
students familiar with the minutest details of the
work they undertake, and not skim over the surface
without dipping down into the depths. Her teach-
ing is both practical and thorough.
	DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP'S obstetric class passed
their final examination before Drs. Anderson,
Richards and Bowers on Thursday, May 19. Miss
Edna L. Smith, Miss Mabel Park and Miss Millie
Reynolds, all of this city. These ladies deserve
great credit for their close application to the study,
but their efforts were rewarded as was shown by
their successful and brilliant examinations.  It is
difficult to fully estimate the advantages that will
accrue to the community in having young women
so qualified in this branch of medical science.
Dr. Shipp is an indefatigable worker, and has her
occupation at heart, which makes her valuable
teachings felt. When one enters into her work
whole-souled her efforts are much more effective.
Dr. M. C. Shipp has given very interesting lectures
in public places, as well as before her class, and
seems to possess a very happy faculty for adapting
her language to the ideas she wishes to convey,
thereby making the subject clearer than do those
who wrap their thoughts in too many words.
	THE most elaborate preparations to celebrate
Queen Victoria's Jubilee are being made in Great
Britain. Royalty and titled people from various
parts of Europe and the islands of the sea are
wending their way there, or have already landed in
England to be present and witness the ceremonies
on this joyful occasion. No wonder the people of 
Victoria's realm love and venerate her, for the
country has never seen such a long period of 
peace and active prosperity as during the reign of
this wise and judicious woman-Queen and Em-
press. Long may she live, to bless and to rule
with the same characteristic wisdom. Her example
has given as much prestige to her reign as the ju-


dicious and discreet management of the affairs of
the kingdom have to its fame both at home and
abroad. Queen Victoria has proven beyond dis-
pute that a woman may occupy the highest position
in state or kingdom, and yet be a most excellent
mother, and never lose that sweetness and grace of
character which is the inherent gift of womanhood,
and which men are so afraid will be lost when
women are allowed to vote and hold positions of
emolument and trust.
	"THE GREAT CONTEST!" This is the telling
title of a new pamphlet, recently issued from the
Deseret News Office, by Robert W. Sloan, who
spent the past winter, and in fact was in Washing-
ton during the whole of the last session of Con-
gress, and had excellent opportunities to observe
the way in which the Mormon question was treated
upon by men who represent the people of this free
Republic at National Headquarters. The writer
gives to the reader in a concise manner the princi-
pal features in the case, and a great many facts
that are worth knowing. No one can peruse this
little work carefully without getting a pretty good
idea of the whole Mormon situation, as it relates
to the political interests of the people of this Terri-
tory. The author shows up Mr. Tucker in a glow-
ingly unfavorable and un-Christian light. There
never was a speech fuller of inconsistencies than
that of the gentleman just named, and yet he
poses before the nation as a fearless champion of
human rights, and talks in the most pathetic man-
ner possible about the home—the Christian home
—and the one wife, who possesses the whole heart
of her husband, and so on. Mr. Sloan has made
some good and strong points in referring to the
speeches made on the bill, and the book, taken as
a whole, is a valuable acquisition to the libraries
of the home and the people. The price of the
book is within the reach of all, and it is a good
one for reference. For sale at the Deseret News
Office and all the principal book stores in the city
Price 25 cents.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			KIMBALL REUNION.

	The first general gathering of the family of the
late President Heber C. Kimball was held at Full-
er Hill Gardens on Tuesday, June 14 1887, that
day being the anniversary of the birth of Presi-
dent Kimball 86 years before. A committee of
the Kimball boys issued invitations to the family
and friends and arranged a programme for the oc-
casion. There were several hundred assembled
of the members of the family connections and in-
timate friends. In the Hall at the back of the
stand were hung portraits of Heber C. Kimball
and his wives, Vilate Murray and Anna Gheen,
also a portrait of President Brigham Young, his
life-long companion and friend. The two men
were like brothers, and for several years labored
together in the missionary field, both members of
the quorum of the Twelve Apostles and were
afterwards associated together for many years
up to the time of Elder H. C. Kimball's death in
the presidency of the Church. In days gone by
their names were almost invariably coupled to-
gether by their relatives and friends, as Brigham
and Heber, one seldom being mentioned without
the other. Besides these portraits there were
those of Heber P. Kimball, David P., Brigham
W., Jerimiah H. of his sons that are dead and of
his grandson also deceased, and one of his sons
Charles S. who was absent from home and could
not attend.
	On the stand were seated nineteen of his living
sons, all large fine-looking men; also his eldest
daughter, Helen Mar Whitney, and her son Bishop
Orson F. Whitney. Of his widows present we
noticed Presindia L., Ruth R., Mary Ellen., Har-
riet S., Christine G., and Amanda G. Kimball.
There were several of his children both sons and
daughters who were not present, still there was a

[Column 2]
large and notable representation. The master of
ceremonies was the eldest son, William H. Kim-
ball, and the opening exercise was "Auld Lang
Syne" by Held's band. The music was inspira-
tional, and the selection most appropriate. Prayer
was offered by Elder David Candland an adopted
son of the veteran apostle in whose honor the
family convened. The choir under the direction
of Horace G. Whitney with Prof. Evan Stephens
at the organ rendered that grandly significant
hymn, "O ye mountains high," the effect was thrill-
ing and tender. Introductory remarks of a most
touchingly pathetic character were made by Bishop
Joseph S. Kimball, followed by a quartette sung
by the Kimball boys, with clear manly voices in
the very best of time and tune, Prof. Stevens
accompanying them on the organ. Bishop O. F.
Whitney then read a brief sketch of the life of
his grandfather which he had written for the occa-
sion, giving the most remarkable incidents in the
life of this great man whose memory is so fondly
revered by the Latter-day Saints. The article
on Prest. Kimball read by Bishop Whitney will be
published in the Contributor for June. The Bishop
is engaged in writing the life of Heber C. Kimball
in an elaborate work. After the rendering of
the hymn, "Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah," the benediction was pronounced
by Elder Wm. B. Barton. This completed the
morning exercises after which there was an inter-
mission of about three hours, and delicious re-
freshments were served under the trees, on the
grounds, and amusements indulged in and
thoroughly enjoyed.
	About three o'clock the family and guests as-
sembled again in the hall to finish the programme
which had been begun in the morning. First was
a duet by Helen K. Bourne and Florence Whitney,
granddaughters of Heber C. Kimball; Miss
Viola Pratt sang "I stood on the bridge at mid-
night;" and Elder Andrew Kimball gave a reci-
tation. The assembly was then addressed by
President Angus M. Cannon, who made some
very happy comparisons calculated to encourage
and benefit the descendants of the illustrious
Heber C. Kimball.
	During the afternoon by request the eldest son
and daughter and the youngest son and daughter
of Prest. Kimball were introduced to the assem-
bly from the stand. The eldest were Wm. H.
Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney children of
Heber C. and Vilate Murray Kimball
and the youngest were Leonard L. and
Abbie Kimball children of Heber C. and
Mary Smithers Kimball. There are now living
of this large plural family 25 sons and 11 daughters,
36 in all. Such gatherings are commendable and
exceedingly interesting. They are productive of
great good, promoting harmony and increasing
love and affection among the members from gen-
eration to generation. There were a very large
number of grandchildren and great grandchildren
present. It was a scene and a time long to be re-
membered by all who were there, not only mem-
bers of the family but invited guests. The good
feeling and spirit that pervaded the meeting and
the association together was sufficient to prove the
love and unity that exists in large families, as well
as small ones, and coming from several parts of
the Territory, some not having seen each other for
several years, it must be a source of joy and grati-
fication to meet as they did there in social enjoy-
ment. It is hoped that this first gathering of the
Kimballs will be the initiative for many more and
that the increase of his posterity will continue to
grow and spread forth while time shall last.
	These lines were written for the reunion:
		Let Kimball families everywhere
		With joyful hearts and hands prepare
		To spend in friendship and goodwill
		A holiday at Fuller's Hill,
	
		In memory of his honored name,
		The hero of prophetic fame,

[Column 3]
		Now held in sacred love and praise
		By all the Saints of Latter-days.
		
		Released from care and earthly loads,
		He sits in council with the Gods,
		While those He left on earth behold
		The things which he so oft foretold.

		The gifted and prophetic seer
		Looks down upon his children here,
		And loves to see them leal and true,
		And carrying out his counsels, too.

		The staff of innocence and youth,
		And dauntless advocate of truth:
		Things seen through his prophetic glass
		Were always sure to come to pass.

		Among the first to open doors
		And raise the flag on British shores,
		What precious seed he scattered there
		In answer to the contrite prayer.

		Though never blest to see him here,
		His righteous memory I revere;
		And oft his journal I have read,
		And tears of admiration shed

		While musing on his generous love
		In drawing human hearts above,
		And pointing out the narrow road
		That, leads them back to heaven and God.

		Like tiger merging from his cave,
		Or lion in his manhood brave,
		His keen reproof to age and youth
		Was sharpened by unvarnished truth.

		A friend so staunch, so true and tried,
		Unwavering by the Prophet's side,
		When persecuted hearts were wrung—
		And still the same to Brigham Young.

		And in Missouri's darkest hour,
		A king in majesty and power;
		When demons wrecked the fair Nauvoo
		We know the scenes he waded through.

		The celebration now begun
		Should be a universal one;
		And Kimball hearts with grateful tears
		Repeat it through succeeding years.

							JANETTE PATON.


JEALOUSY.

	To fully describe this passion would require a
philosophical elucidation which I shall not attempt
in this short article; but simply offer a few reflec-
tions in relation to it.
	It is claimed by some of the lords of creation
and perhaps not without some justification that
woman is not naturally a philosopher, being
governed more by intuition than by the slower
method of reasoning from cause to effect; but I
believe it has never been denied that her conclu-
sions, though reached much more quickly are
often as correct as man's, especially upon those
matters in which she herself is interested.
	In all the works of the great Creator we behold
a most beautiful harmony; hence, man's gifts and
endowments are strictly in keeping with his organ-
ism; while his follies and weaknesses are decided-
ly masculine and wherever seen manifesting them-
selves are easily recognized as belonging to the
genus homo.  To say that a weakly woman ex-
hibits feminine traits of character is positively in-
correct for the lack of true manhood either in a
physical or mental sense certainly has no relation
to true womanhood, and I will not be so cowardly
as to attempt to palm off upon man anything that
woman exhibits that seems at all unwomanly. 
	Woman from the very earliest period has occu-
pied a distinct position from man.  The degree of ele-
vation to which she has attained has been de-
termined by the intelligence of the age in which
she has lived.  An age of barbarism has invaria-
bly been an age of slavery for her; while an age of
enlightenment has invariably placed her by the
side of man as an help-meet for him.  And I take


[column 1]
it that the two spheres, though dissimilar in many
respects, yet when legitimately occupied will pro-
duce no jar or friction whatever.
	I have sometimes asked myself the question.
Is the condition of women upon this earth an ab-
normal one, that she should at any time feel in any
degree whatever, jealous of her husband? And
again, can a passion so destructive in its character
and results be a part of her nature? and here I
confess I am stopped for want of a philosophy to
answer my question to my full satisfaction and my
intuition upon this point is sadly at fault also.
	To say that jealousy is an outgrowth of love I
do not believe for one moment, for the one is the
very antipodes of the other; dissimilar in every
respect. Love is confiding and trustful; jealousy
is suspicious and distrustful. One exhibits an en-
tire absence of selfishness while the other ex-
hibits it to the highest degree. Love draws;
jealousy repels. Love would sacrifice its own life
for the object of its affection; Jealousy would
murder the being it mistrusts, and glory in the
vengeance, claiming it had committed the deed
because of love. The two passions cannot oper-
ate together for they are antagonistic to each other,
and as exhibited by mortals, the one seems to be
of God and the other of the evil one; for while the
one tends to life the other leads to death; and as
Solomon says, “Is as cruel as 'the grave,” while
“love is stronger than death.”
	Jealousy, as far as woman is concerned, seems
to be tracable to the time when she was placed
under a ban by the Almighty in the Garden of
Eden when he said, “Thy desire shall be to thy
husband etc,” which desire we cannot view in the
abstract only as a curse and unless this feeling is
held under strict control will always prove to be
such;
	Man’s unfaithfulness to woman in the keeping
of his marriage vows as exhibited in the monoga-
mous relation has fanned the flame of jealousy
and caused the fire thereof to burn with such in-
tensity for so many generations past as to almost
preclude the idea of its ever being extinguished.
Woman's distrust of man has become an estab-
lished tradition, leading her to question if the
time will ever come when a consummation
so devoutly to be wished" shall be reached?
We answer, yes. That time will come and will 
be brought about by the power of the Gospel un-
der whose influence man and woman will be
brought back into the presence of God, freed not
only from the power of the curse, but from the 
curse itself; which, as I view it, belongs exclusive-
ly to a fallen earth. The provisions of the Gos-
pel are ample and cover the entire ground over
which the curse reaches, or in the language of the 
poet "Far as the curse was found." One of the 
provisions which the Gospel makes is that a faith-
ful man is entitled to more than one wife and
strange as it may appear the acceptance and prac-
tice of this very principle will secure to us victory
over this passion as nothing else will; for if its
practice, as our opposers claim, naturally tends to
the strengthening of this passion then may we
question its heavenly origin. In proof of my po-
sition I will appeal to those of my sisters who 
have received the doctrine as from God, and who 
have entered into its practice with this faith in 
their hearts and ask you, If you have not obtained
thereby a power over this passion which you could
not have done otherwise? I know the answer in
nearly every instance will be most emphatically
in the affirmative. Then in this regard are you
gradually coming out from under the curse, and 
that, too, upon the most simple principle imaginable.
By subscribing to God's law. For, instead of be-
ing jealous, you esteem and serve all the more the
men who honor this law.
	Those of my sisters who in feeling and faith 
are opposed to this principle but have yielded
thereto merely from a fear of doing wrong, they 
are to-day in a greater or less degree victims to
[column 2]
this bane of their life and suffer severely from a
passion that can only be conquered by a willing
obedience to law. Right here I make bold to
state that there is less distrust and suspicion ex-
hibited in the families of polygamists than in the
families of monogamists; the howlings of the
Utah ring, and the Christain world to the con-
trary notwithstanding.
	Marital infidelity in monogamous families in the
Christain world is the rule rather than the excep-
tion; while marital fidelity in polygamous families
among the Latter-day Saints is the exception (and
a very marked exception) rather than the rule.
Hence this cause of jealousy is so far removed.
True, there may remain what we term petty jeal-
ousies, that have their origin in trifles that are not
worth naming, which the best of us feel at times.
annoyances, which are more often the result of
physical conditions than anything else, and conse-
quently but short lived and therefore not neces-
sarily destructive in their character. But the
jealousy of which I am treating is most destruc-
tive; for if the individual who is a victim to this
passion does not seek the ruin of the person of
whom she is jealous, then it is like a consuming
fire in her own bones producing untold misery,
until death comes to her relief. It is a passion
capable of extinguishing every other feeling, re-
ducing its victims to the condition of abject
slavery, and holding them in the most absolute
bondage.
	In this one instance there is shown the superiori-
ty of the Gospel of our Lord and Savior Jesus
Christ, a dispensation of which is committed to
us, imparting as it does power to the individual
who receives it to overcome all things and the
Revelator John says of such, that they shall eat
of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the
paradise of God, which tree was closely guarded
when Adam and Eve were driven from the Gar-
den of Eden, but to which now, after having over-
come, they have free access, and by eating the
fruit thereof, will "live forever."
							AUNT RUTH.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


(AN INTERESTING GATHERING.
	In honor of Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, President
of the Relief Society of the 15th Ward of this
city there was an interesting gathering at the Re-
lief Society Hall, where a few invited guests par-
ticipated with the sisters of the ward in expres-
sions of esteem and love, and in social enjoyment
at the same time. There was singing and a prayer,)
after which a written address was read by Sister
Elizabeth Duncason, who is the President of a 
Committee in the Society, and during the reading
a memorial picture, in which many of her co-labor-
ers in the ward were handsomely grouped around
her, was presented to Sister Kimball as a token of
the high esteem in which she is held by them.
	Sister Kimball made a loving response, in which
she said, "The sisters have captured me, and I am
for the time being their subject; this representa-
tion of friends will, when located in my home, be
a precious memento. I desire to be worthy of the
love and appreciation so beautifully expressed."
	Appropriate speeches were made by Sisters M.
Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith and Jeanette
Yates, expressing love, respect and appreciation.
	Sister Ann Duncason said she had invited Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith, who, although not able to
attend, had sent her love and best wishes to all
the sisters, and felt to bless all who had so kindly 
remembered their president.
	Sister Elizabeth Duncason expressed her ap-
preciation of Sister Kimball's labors, and that she
had been a blessing to the sisters associated in the
ward, and to her especially.
	Sister Rebecca M. Jones thought there had
generally been a very good feeling among those
who had labored together for so many years as a


quorum of sisters, and that their president had
been very efficient in directing the efforts of those
associated with her, and hoped she would live
long on the earth to bless and help those among
whom she was called to labor.
     Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke for a short time
and said she thought if the sisters would unite
their faith she would like to hear Sister Kimball
bless the sisters in the gift of tongues.
     Sister Kimball expressed a wish that the Lord
would give her His Spirit to bless the sisters in
that gift; and she then spoke in tongues, blessing
all.  Sister Young gave the interpretation, which
was full of instruction, comfort and blessings to
the sisters.  After singing, the assembly was dis-
missed with prayer by Sister M. Lois Morris.
     Refreshments were then served, and after all had
partaken several songs were sung.  Sister J. I.
Jones sang, "Take me back a child to mother;"
Sister M. Lois Morris sang, "Ever of Thee;"
Sister C. Schoonhalls sang, "An Alpine Warble;"
Sister Jones sang, "I cannot sing the old songs"
and "Auld Lang Syne."  The sisters then joined
in singing, "Hard times come again no more."
They had been conversing much upon the early
days in the valley, and the hardships and priva-
tions of the people during that period.  Dismissed
with prayer by Sister B. W. Smith.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			RICHMOND.
	The Eighth Annual Meeting of the Rich-
mond Primary Association was held June 1st,
1887, at 2 p.m. A short but excellent pro-
gramme was rendered by the little children,
consisting of songs, duets, recitations and dia-
logues. Our Primary Martial Band, consist-
ing of eighteen little boys, under their efficient
leader, James Davenport, who takes great in-
terest in teaching them, rendered some sweet
selections from the Primary Music Book. The
same officers were sustained for another year.
	Stake Prest., Jane E. Molen, was pleased to
see so many aged people and parents present.
"The little boys in Richmond are always to the
front." Congratulated the Primary Band for
discoursing such sweet music.
	Acting Coun. Emma Pike said we should be
kind to the aged and infirm. "Be good boys
and girls, and God will bless you."
	Instructive remarks were made by Sister
Martha Williams of Smithfield, Sister Cornish
of Coleville, Hannah T. Brower, Bishop W. S.
Skidmore and Coun. C. Hyer of Richmond.
	Hannah T. Brower read some original verses
on the Primary Band, after which Prest. Mary
Allsop asked for the faith and prayers of the
parents to enable her to teach the children the
principles of the Gospel.
	A good spirit prevailed, and all enjoyed
themselves, and felt that we had had a feast of
fat things.
	Statistical and fiinancial report of the Rich-
mond Primary Association, commencing June 
1st, 1886, and ending June 1st, 1887: Num-
ber of officers,7; members, 225; total of officers
and members, 232; average attendance, 100;
meetings held, 49; cash remaining in treasury
from previous year, $3.40; cash received from
members during the year, $5.80; proceeds from
Primary fair, $14.15; received from Relief So-
ciety, $5; donations from parents to Primary
Band, $20 80; proceeds from theatre, $36 65;
total, $85.80. Disbursements: Paid for writ-
ing materials, $1.25; to Stake Presidency, 50 
cts.; for instruments for Primary Band, $49.50;
presented to leader of band, $13; paid for tuition,
$6; material for costumes, $15.55; total, $85.80.
Property on hand, $10.
			MARY ALLSOP, Prest.
			LATIE J. HENERICKS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A GOOD TIME.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	On the 7th inst. the Stake officers of the Re-
lief Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. showed
their esteem for Sister Julia P. Lindsay, Prest.
of the Relief Society of the Bear Lake Stake,
and appreciation of her assiduous labors, by
meeting at her residence in Paris 2nd Ward,
accompanied by a choice picnic. The good sis-
ter was surprised in the literal sense of the
word, when she saw the numerous vehicles draw-
ing up before her door.
	After the company had appropriated the
house to their use, and Sister Lindsay had be-
come accustomed to the changes which had
taken place, there were about two hours spent
very pleasantly, and those present were regaled
with sweet music, which was discoursed by
Professor Heisel; also beautiful singing by the
ladies.
	At 5 o'clock p.m. Sister L. M. Hart read an
article written for the occasion, setting forth
the sentiments of the sisters, and their good
feelings toward Sister Lindsay; she also pre-
sented the hostess, in behalf of the company,
with a beautiful cashmere dress and shawl.
The recipient of the gift replied very appropri-
ately, by expressing the pleasure which the
kindness of the sisters had afforded her, and
by thanking them profusely for the gift.
	A sumptuous supper was then served, of
which all partook heartily. The company
then adjourned to the parlor, where they were
entertained for an hour or two with speeches
and recitations by the sisters, and music by the
Professor, until 7 o'clock p.m., when the ladies
re-entered their carriages and returned to their
homes, leaving the hostess in the best of spirits,
and feeling themselves that the day had been a
pleasant and successful one.
			Yours respectfully,
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Stake Sec.


ANOTHER ART CRAZE.

	The latest art work among ladies is
known as the "French Craze" for decorating
china, glassware, etc. It is something entirely
new, and is both profitable and fascinating. It
is very popular in New York, Boston and other
Eastern cities. To ladies desiring to learn the
Art, we will send an elegant china placque (18
inches,) handsomely decorated, for a model, to-
gether with a box of material, 100 colored de-
signs assorted in flowers, animals, soldiers,
landscapes, etc., complete, with full instruc-
tions, upon receipt of only $1.00. The placque
alone is worth more than the amount charged.
To every lady ordering this outfit who encloses
the address of five other ladies interested in
Art matters, to whom we can mail our new
catalogue of Art Goods, we will enclose extra
and without charge, a beautiful 30 inch, gold-
tinted placque.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


NO TIME.

     What becomes of the time?  We have all
the time there is, and yet everywhere we hear
the cry of no ttme!
     "I have no time to read!" says a busy women.
"I have no time to visit says a busy man.
     And looking around among our friends, we
find that very few of them think they have 
time for anything.
     Everything is on the rush.  We all go by
steam, and we are looking forward to the time
when we shall go by lightning.
     Now, what is the need of all this hurry?


What particular purpose does it serve? Is the
world any better or wiser for it?
	No time!
	In many respects our grandfathers were
wiser than we are. They took time to do
well, and never hurried about it. They kept
hides in the tan-pit five years, and they had
leather when it was wanted—leather which de-
fied water and wear, and was a satisfaction to
the sole of man!
	They were years getting out the timber and 
shaping it into houses, and they courted their
sweethearts while they fashioned the nests for
them, and the consequence was that some of
the houses are standing to-day, and no wind
which has ever swept over sea or land, has been
powerful enough to tear these solid timbers
apart.
	And they took time to get their wives, and
the consequence was that there were no suits
for separation based on "incompatility," or
"lack of affinity," and a lawyer who "obtained
divorces without duplicity" would have starved
to death in those days in about six weeks.
	And right here let it be said that a man
should never grudge the time he spends in
courting. He wants to go a little slow, for
therein lies most of the sweetness.
	And it is often the case that he takes more
solid comfort with the girl before he marries
her than he does afterward. For, before mar-
riage, he and she both are dressed in their best
clothes, and they wear their best smiles, and
have the sweetest sides of their character out,
and everything is lovely.—Selected.


THE PRESENT SITUATION.

	In reflecting upon the situation of affairs to-
day one is apt to wonder why and what is the
cause of this strife and turmoil that exists.
To look at the position that the government is
taking against the Latter-day Saints, one is
apt to wonder what is going to be done? What
course the Saints will pursue?
	In my opinion there is only one course for
us to take.  I have reflected upon the princi-
ples advanced by our enemies and find there is
no saving power in them.  They are also with-
out power from God to act in his name.  Hence,
their labors are vain to look at this from our
stand point.  They do not attempt to advance
principles superior to those practiced by the Lat-
ter-day Saints.  Then, as I said before, there is only
one course for us to pursue.  Study those prin-
ciples that are designed to save and exalt us;
become more and more familiar with them;
make them a part of our lives.  Let us never
swerve to the right or left in maintaining those
principles we know to be right.  Under these
circumstances our enemies will think more of
us even though they persecute us, and God will
be pleased to own us as his children.  There
is one thing certain the Latter-day Saints are
right in their convictions or they are, as the
world says, the greatest imposters on the earth;
because the principles advocated by them are
calculated to lead even thinking people astray.
The principles of the Gospel should be first and
foremost with the rising generation.  They
should gain a knowledge of them and be able
to prove beyond successful contradiction their
truthfulness.  As the motto of our paper
is, "No excellence without labor," it is just as
applicable in this direction as any other.
	I hope that more of our young people will
become interested in this study.
	Always wishing for the welfare and pros-
perity of the young, I remain,
			Respectfully
						I. H. GRACE.


WHAT THE CHILDREN DID.

     On the 2nd of June the Primary at Leam-
ington gave a surprise to the President, Sister


Mary G. Pay.  It was the day of the meeting
of the Relief Society, and the birthday of Sis-
ter Pay.  Just before the close of the meeting,
the Primary children came tripping in with a
basket of good things, accompanied by the First
Counselor, Sister Jane Morgan, and singing,
“Gladly meeting, kindly greeting.” They also
made the President a present from their own
small contributions of five and ten cents each,
without calling on any one for means.  There
was a regular programme of dialogues, recita-
tions and songs by the children.  The secretary
read an address as follows:
     In honor of the birthday of the President
of our Primary, Sister M. G. Pay, we are as-
sembled here to-day to pay our respect by giv-
ing her a surprise, which we hope has been a
success, and praying that she may see many
happy returns of her birthday.
				FLORENCE ROGERS, Sec.
     The President made a few remarks in response,
thanking them for the honor conferred upon her,
and the good feeling that had prompted it, and
hoping to take a course in the future to merit
the confidence of all associated with her in the
same work.  It was really an enjoyable time
for the children and those interested in their
welfare.


PRETTY AMELIA REEVES.

     Miss Amelia Reeves, the author of "A Brother
of Dragons," is descended from one of the first
families of Virginia, and has all the personal
charms and graces of manner that distinguish
the "F. F. Vs."  She is a little above the me-
dium height, slender and willowy.  She has
one of those figures whose very lines are poetry.
Her face is longer than the strict laws of
beauty allow, but it is faultless in contour.
She has large brown eyes, whose expression
is roguish rather than intellectual; an olive
complexion, and black hair which falls in 
waves about the prettiest pink ears in the
world.  The chief charm of the young novelist
lies in her conversation.  Miss Reeves has the
reputation of being invulnerable to the
shafts of love.  With her ample fortune—said
to be $200,000—her beauty, and her talents,
she might have selected long ago from several
distinguished Virginia suitors, but she has
steadfastly declined all offers of marriage.  It
is said that she "thinks too much of all the
men to center her affections in one."  Like all
brilliant women Miss Reeves has her eccen-
tricities.  She will dress only in black.  What
is more surprising still, she dislikes flowers, and
will not wear one under any circumstances.
She is as fond of diamonds as an actress.  A 
diamond hair brooch, a diamond breastpin, and
several diamond rings are only a part of the
precious stones on her person.  Though she is
only 25 years old, she eschews the prevailing
fashion of bangs and frizzes.—Selected.


NOTES AND NEWS.	
	Wash silk stockings in warm borax water,
but never iron them.

	Miss Louise Imogen Guiney is about to bring
out a new volume of poems.

	Mme. Marie Dronsart, a French woman, has
written a biography of Bismarch in three
volumes.

	Queen Margharita, of Italy, has established 
an asylum for the blind in the Baths of Diocle-
tian at Rome.

	Fifty-four women have placed their names
on the British Register as duly qualified Medi-
cal practitioners.

	Some old dinner customs still prevail. The


Romans used to recline at their banquets, and
the habit of lying at public dinners still pre-
vails.—Boston Bulletin.

	The Princess of Wales in having her
daughters taught dressmaking has determined
that they shall make some of their own gowns
as an example to poor, but proud, gentle-
women.

	Marie Augustin Despeissis, of London, is a
new departure in the way of women inventors.
She has patented a device for creating a regu-
lar and even draught through the tubes or flues
of steam boilers, which is said to work well.

The Lake Champlain steamer, Water Lily, has
a woman pilot in the person of Mrs. Louise
Daniels, wife of Captain Daniels, of that
steamer. Mrs. Daniels, who is a prepossessing
woman of forty-two years, has just received her
license to act as pilot on Lake Champlain
wrters.

	Prof. Shaler says the actual moving of the
ground in the case of earthquakes is slight; the
Charleston shocks, for instance, probably
swinging the earth to and fro within the space
of an inch. Attention to good masonry in
building would secure immunity from shocks
in most cases.

	Lady Wilde, the mother of Oscar, and the
author of Irish revolutionary poems which she
wrote in 1848 over the name of Speranza, is
living in London it is said in absolute want, be-
cause her Irish tenants have not paid a cent of
rent in six years; yet she will not consent to a
single eviction on her estate.

	Mme. Dieulafoy, who received the Cross of
the Legion of Honor from the French govern-
ment for the help she gave her husband in his
explorations among the ruins of Susa, has a
taste for masculine attire. She found long
skirts inconvenient at Susa, and adopted clothes
better suited to the work. The other night
she shocked Paris by appearing at the theatre
in masculine dress, with the Cross of the Legion
of Honor on her breast. The papers are now
recalling instances of other celebrated French
women from Joan of Arc to George Sand, who
discarded the usual dress of her sex. But Mme.
Dieulafoy probably will not make a practice of 
appearing thus attired, since a French law,
passed in 1857, empowers the police to arrest 
any woman who dresses like a man, unless she 
is armed with a physician's certificate to show
that she does it for the good of her health.


WOMAN’S	EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	Sorrows are to life what shades are to a
picture—it is only by them the light is re-
vealed.

	The newspaper should become a fountain of
truth and moral influence, and should take its
stand upon some high and good principle, and
assert it boldly in the face of all opposition.—
P. Godwin.

	There is a voice from the tomb sweeter than
song; there is a remembrance of the dead, to 
which we turn even from the charms of the
living; these we would not exchange for the
pleasure of the bursts of revelry.—W. Irving.

	O mothers, do not fold the hands across
your empty lap, and say at fifty, “The story is
told.” If home has been so all-absorbing that
outside interests have fallen away from you,
find the broken thread, or take up a new one,
and you will soon find yourselves among the
world’s creators. The summer sunshine went
with the children, but your autumn may be long


and bright, with real "halcyon days" here and
there. Your daughters, now young mothers,
will feel that your example has given them a
larger life-lease, and the world must needs ac-
knowledge its errors. The promise for the
"golden age" for women is fair, but its realiza-
tion will never be reached until home training
undergoes the needed reformation, and its girls
and women secure a physical poise which shall
give judgment and stability to all their under-
takings. Upon the women of to-day devolves
a mighty task, but, when filled with glory and
honor, it teems with rich possibilities.—Dr.
Elizabeth Chapin.


﻿BARGAIN IN MUSIC.
	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock; Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor's Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
 bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately. 
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


CLOTHING FOR HOT AND COLD
					WEATHER.

	A good illustration of the changes of temperature to
which the body may be subjected in a brief interval, may
be found on any warm day of summer when a strong north
or easterly wind is blowing. On such a day an individual
sitting in the full blaze of the sun, and well sheltered from
the wind, may feel positively "hot;" while another, equally
well protected from the wind, but sheltered also from the
sun, may feel but comfortably warm; a third exposed to the
full blast of the wind, to the rapid passage over the body of
a colder air, may reasonably complain of being chilled.
Now it so happens that the disorders that depend upon
what is known as catching cold depend for the most part
upon the sudden changes of temperature. "These disorders,
says an authority, "are induced by the removal of heat to
an usual extent from the external or internal surface of the
body." The same writer recognizes three factors in the
probable cause of a "cold"—a low temperature, air in mo-
tion, and moisture; and I think that common experience
teaches us—a propos of these factors—that colds are most
frequent when the weather is cold and windy and wet.
Now, against these evils of sudden change woolen under-
garments afford a trustworthy protection. They isolate
the body. They prevent it from being influenced by the
abrupt changes of temperature that are active around.
Their properties are such that they become the poorest ex-
ponents of those changes. Linen and cotton, on the other
hand, as good conductors of heat, are susceptible to modi-
fications of temperature. They render the body injuriously
au courant with the condition of the surrounding atmosphere
and would encourage it to take part in all the changes.


R.K. THOMAS
EAGLE EMPORIUM,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R.K. THOMAS

DAVID JAMES & CO.,
TINNERS, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTERS
Agent for RUMSEY’S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to. 
Address. DAVID JAMES. Box 306, SALT LAKE CITY.

ESTABLISHED OCTOBER, 1868.
Z. C. M. I.
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah.
IMPORTERS AND JOBBERS OF
Dry Goods, Notions, Groceries
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
ELEGANT CUT GLASS,
AGRICULTURAL TOOLS AND IMPLE-
MENTS,
CLOTH AND CLOTHING,
PURE DRUGS AND CHEMICALS,
CARPETS AND WALL PAPERS, ALL
GRADES AND NEWEST DESIGNS.
We carry a larger and more complete
Stock than any house in the west.
H.S. ELDREDGE, Supt. 

Special to the Ladies.
AT TEASDEL’S
Will be found the latest styles and productions
in
LACES, RUCHES, EMBRODERIES,
FANS, GLOVES, PARASOLS,
RIBBONS, COLLARS, TIES,
And an elegant assortment of
DRY GOODS.
Special department for Ladies' Misses' and In-
fant's Shoes. 
		112, 114, 116, 118 East Temple Stre


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
