song, Which wakes in our soul where remembrance stays, The joys which e'en time can never outlive And in hours of pleasure, or darkest days A nameless charm doth their influence give. —E. B. W. OLD MAIDS ORGANIZE: The young women of Woodhaven, N. Y. Have organized an "Old Maids' Consolation Association." 'They aver that they have been neglected by the young men, and now propose to retaliate. Not to be outdone, several young men met and organized an "Old Bachelors' Sympathetic and Consolation Society.' Resolutions were adopted as follows: Resolved: That we, as representative young men of the community, deploring their hasty action in assigning themselves so prematurely to old maidenhood, earnestly request them to reconsider their action. At the same time we extend our heartfelt sympathy and penitently promise to atone for past neglect. Resolved, That we appoint a committee to attend the next meeting of the "Old Maids' Consolation Association," and do all in their power to affect a consolidation of the two societies under the title of the "Mutual Consolation Association." JUAB STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: Apostle A. H. Lund said: "T am pleased to have the privilege of meeting with the sisters, and to hear of the good work they are performing, comforting the sick, and caring for the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to be good than great; it is a mission of love to help those who are in need; look after the needy especially those who do not always ask; for there are those who can not make their wants known; give in a way that they will not feel like paupers, but sons and daughters of the same father, extend the same charity as you would to your own brothers and sisters.—Ellen Goldsbrough, Asst. Sec. Page 524 ARAH EMMITT TOUT (Mrs. Edwin F.) died in New York City, April 25, 1951, and was buried in the family's home town, Ogden, Utah. She was the wise, understanding, home-keeping mother of seven brilliant children, six daughters and one son—all singers—five of them professional. Nannie sang before the crowned heads of Europe and filled grand opera and concert engagements in London, Brussels, and Paris. Margaret (Margaret Romaine) sang in the Metropolitan Opera House, where she had leading soprano roles for seven years. Hazel (Hazel Dawn) was the famous "Pink Lady" of musical comedy fame. At Hyde Park L. D. S. Missionary street meetings, held in London, the family would open the services with their magnificent singing, walk ten blocks to another location and sing there, then move on to another group, then back to close the first meeting, and perhaps the other two. Me4kY ELLEN CHASE, Professor of English Literature at Smith College, has written an excellent biography of Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, wife of John Davison Rockefeller, III. Mrs. Rockefeller contributed generously of her faith, energy, and personality to our American democracy, in which she