Boxes For Beauty Celia L. Luce HEN you picture your dream cottage, it is not of just a house you dream. Around the cottage will be flowers and trees and shrubs. 'The house and gardens will be a complete, harmonizing unit. There are many ways to make your planting a harmonizing part of the house. One of the best is by the use of planting boxes. These bring the flowers closer to the house Bihan pavditantidenrssee ee ce cave Willard uige "Planting boxes bring the flowers closer to the house and make them seem a part of it." Page 534 passersby. And make them seem to be a part of it. Often they repeat the materials used in the house. For example, a chimney may be made of stone, and the planting boxes may repeat the stone. 'Planting boxes also provide color emphasis that can point up a good feature of a house. Used by the door they make the eye travel to the door, and the house seems to invite you to enter. Or window boxes may draw the eye to a beautiful window, and thus provide a glimpse of flowered coolness for the folks inside the house. Is your house too high in front? Often a house built over a basement looms up and seems to look down on folks outside. It seems to draw haughty skirts away from the Tall shrubs are often used to bring the front of the house down and give it a friendly look, but planting boxes also have a use here. 'They break up the uninteresting tall lines with horizontal accents. They give a friendly smile instead of a haughty glare. Use planting boxes with care, however. They should be planned with the house and seem part of it. They should be made of harmonizing materials, for planting boxes can easily become so important that they draw attention away from the house and spoil the whole effect. Using planting boxes is like using salt: the right amount brings out the true flavor, while with too much you taste nothing but the salt. BOXES FOR BEAUTY 535 Willard Luce GERANIUM WINDOW BOX This planting box serves three purposes in this small house of knotty pine. Built of the same material as the house, it brings the garden and the house into close relationship. It helps to unify the two parts of the garden by spanning the driveway area. Then, it breaks up the too-tall lines created by the garage doors and the living room window. Home 'Gene Romolo A house may be only four walls and a roof; Home is a house where the warp and the woof Of living are spun in more perfect strands By love and the art of a woman's deft hands. How to Make Sluffy Rugs Beatrice Squires Poelman Fay < make a rug! Now that spring housecleaning has unearthed worn-out sweaters, mackinaws, and overcoats, what better time could be found to plan a rug? Then, too, during the warm days, that part of rugmaking which makes a mess, such as npping up garments and cutting strips, can be done outdoors. The type of rug I'm suggesting is designed to use heavy work clothes, overcoats, old blankets, sweaters, in fact, almost any article discarded by those who make quilts, braided, or crocheted rugs. To make these rugs, strips of woolen material are sewed by means of a sewing machine on a back of canvas, or a back made of strips of overalls or strips of corduroy pants or pieces of heavy work clothes. Discarded tapestry material obtained at upholsters' shops can also be used successfully for the rug backs. Make the back in the shape or size desired. If pieces of material are sewed together to form the back, all raw seams should be on the side on which the woolen strips are to be sewed, and should be opened and stitched flat to avoid too heavy a seam over which to stitch the strips. The edge of the back should also be turned once and stitched, the raw edge being on the same side as the raw seams. After the back has been finished, a few lines marked with crayon on the seamed side will act as a guide to indicate where to sew the strips. On oblong or square rugs, the intersection of the diagonals drawn from opposite corners will determine the center point, while the diagonals themselves will indicate the turning point when stitching the 'rows around on the rug. Lines marked off about every six inches in from the edges act as guides to help keep the rows straight. On circular rugs, a few concentric circles drawn with a piece of crayon tied to a string are all the guide needed. Oval rugs require a combination of semicircles and straight lines for guides. With the back of the rug finished and marked, the next step is to prepare the strips to sew onto it. The thickness of the rug desired determines the width of the strips. Strips one-inch wide make quite thick rugs, and only when extremely heavy rugs are desired, is it necessary to cut them any wider. All materials, except knitted goods, should be cut on the bias. It is easier to turn corners or follow a curved line with strips cut on the bias than with those cut on the straight of the material. A second ly 3 SS Page 536