Usiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 2—"Remember That My Spirit Will Not Always Strive With Man" (Ether 2:15). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, November 6, 1951 Objective: To point out that only by living the Lord's commandments can we be sure of the presence of his spirit. "REMEMBER that my Spirit will not always strive with man." 'This is the Lord's admonition to the brother of Jared, and it is also a warning to us in our day. How awful it would be if we were shut out from the presence of our Heavenly Father's spirit. No. Darkness is so dense as the darkness in which one gropes without his spirit. It is a darkness more confusing and hazardous, by far, than physical darkness, for spiritual darkness - clouds the mind, the heart, and the soul—it obscures the light of truth. What does it mean to have his spirit striving with us? Of what value is it to us? It means that his spirit encourages us in righteousness, that it urges us to do good. His spirit illumines our pathway, helps us to distinguish between the real and the counterfeit, the important and the unimportant, truth and error. His spirit helps us to resist evil, gives us strength to overcome. What greater treasure could one ask for? But, under certain conditions, we are warned, his spirit will cease to strive with us. What are those conditions? When are we in danger of losing this protection and assistance? We are in danger when we harden our hearts and turn deaf ears to the spirit's promptings. We are in danger when we persist in | doing evil. When we defile our bodies we are in danger, for the spirit of God will not dwell in an unclean temple. Failure to render obedience to God's commandments places us in jeopardy; and neglect and indifference are the characteristics of spiritual weakness. How, then, may we be assured that the Lord's spirit will always strive with us? Continued adherence to the commandments of our Father in heaven is the safeguard. Sincere intent to do good must be LESSON DEPARTMENT manifest in our actions. Constant spiritual activity is necessary if we would have his spirit tarry with us. Let us live up to all our Heavenly 563 Father's commandments. Let us not take any chances of losing this most precious gift. We need his spirit to strive with us always.