"If Ye Have Faith" A Christmas Story, in Verse By Claire Stewart Boyer.
A stranger into the little town she came, Black-cloaked and silent; She took the run down house Mae Alder lets To transients; and when asked her name, A semblance of a smile trespassed her lips And she returned, "Just call me Nancy." Black-cloaked and silent, A face and form that none would pause To look on twice— Unless it were the eyes That held a strange soul-anguish. Men would call her plain, And children coming home from school Would turn and wonder at her quiet way.
A week she worked about the little house Mae Alder lets to transients, Then she came with all the wond'ring villagers To church; black-cloaked and silent, With folded arms, and eyes that fixed themselves Upon the weary, awe-struck minister, And made him wince; And afterwards alone she made her way Back to the house.
But life has never yet let things go on Without strange happ'nings Even in the dullest place; Disease stalked forth one night And seven doorsills crossed; And all the town, Pox marked from epidemics of the past, Were frantic—not a nurse was to be found. The doctor to the smitten homes returned And there he found, Black-cloaked and silent, Nancy working with the sick. Each morning saw her pass from house to house, Till all were eased; Then quietly. And while they lightly slept, She slipt out to the woods and prayed for them.
It passed and once again within the church The villagers sang praises to their God, And as before with consecrated faith, Sat Nancy with crossed arms beneath her cloak. At home that night her door was pushed ajar, A friend, recipient of recent care, Smiled gratefully and ventured in the room. "You must be lonely. Come with me," she said. But slowly, sadly, Nancy shook her head. "I won't be getting out till after Christmas." And there flashed As sunshine, glancing on a hero's sword, A heavenly light across her dark, dull face. The woman turned and went, nor came again.
Mysterious and dolorous and queer They called her, all the women of the town. And no one saw her till that awful night They brought poor Silas home to Emma Dorn; Torn to rough bits was Silas in the mine, And none could calm the wife hysterical, The raving, cursing wife, insane with grief, Till Nancy, silent and black-cloaked appeared; And then a strange inexplicable calm Took hold of Emma as the two, In silence and in prayer wore out the night.
'Twas Emma who a fortnight later on Ran swiftly to the house Mae Alder lets, And drew forth Nancy from her bed to go To Hilda Humphreys in an urgent need. And while the single woman fought with fate For life new-born, The widow stood aghast, And thought she saw a halo round the head Of her who toiled and wept and toiled and prayed. And as they parted company at dawn 'Twas Nancy who stretched out her hand in thanks For this great privilege of saving life. And as a question rose in Emma's heart From Nancy's lips the calming answer fell, "If ye had faith," He said, "If ye had faith."
So for three months snowbound, alone she stayed Within her house. Once Hilda called and brought Her child along; And Nancy gazed at the tiny face, Wept once again and put away the frock She lately had been sewing. Hilda caught her hand, Her mother heart had guessed, And with a blessing and a sob, Bewildered, she went out into the night.
And as a common fear grips at the hearts Of men and women in close comradeship, So all the town felt this new mystery And feared for her. The winter snows arrived, And frost made white the homely barns, and rails Of fences that were staggering around The fields and stocks. The horses sniffed the air. And neighed with greater friendliness to see The farmers come to feed them in the morn.
And then it came—the day of wondrous joy, The day of love and gifts and memories, The church bell tolled. Sent forth its yearly call; And with a faith renewed, A hope regained, A greater love. Youth, infancy and age Trooped through the snow To worship Christ the Savior and the King.
But as the Christmas music rose and swelled, A nervous whisper passed from lip to lip, Until an undercurrent of soft sound Was eminent— For Nancy was not there. Even the minister who passed in pride Through aisles garlanded with green could feel The whisper ominous. And as he spoke A figure ever rose before his eyes— Black-cloaked and silent.
So to his people he made fervent plea For brotherhood of man the gift of God, And sadly ended with the Savior's words. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one Of the least of them My Brethren. Ye have done it unto me."
And in the hearts of all who knew her heart A vision rose of service and of love, A new kind of Madonna touched their souls, And after services their steps were bound Straight to the little house Mae Alder lets.
They found her sitting as one in a trance. Her eyes looked heavenward, Her arms were crossed, Her lips moved slowly as one in deep prayer. "Have ye forsaken me good Lord this day? Have ye forgot your servant here on earth? And has my faith been all for naught? One wish and only one wish have I had, For seven years each night and day I've prayed With faith far greater than a mustard seed, For him, a son, whom I could call my own. 'If ye had faith,' you said, 'If ye had faith'."
Slowly the women backed out toward the door, And then the minister, Filled with the spirit of the love of Him Stepped forth and spoke, And all his people trembling Sank to their knees, "My child, His mother Mary gave the world A son of service, sacrifice and love. A Christ, revealing to each lonely heart The way of life in true humility. Unto this people here since first you came God has revealed His glory in your face, And every act and word of yours has been A Christ child answering our prayer for help. You have a child, Your faith was not in vain, And he will live as long as any here Have tongue to tell your goodness and your love."
He ceased, her virgin eyes were filled with tears, Great tears of hope and love and happiness, And on her face divine the light of Her, The great Madonna of the world shone forth.