[Vol7 | December 1920 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: A Domestic Drama Abagail Howe]

A Domestic Drama Abigail Howe — (Concluded.) "When is your own wife coming back?" asked Mr. Olson, deliberately. Charlie was at once embarrassed;  but controlling himself as best he might, he replied quietly: "Oh, sometime in the summer or fall perhaps." The innocent youth could not measure the wide disclosure of his vague reply;  but his companion forbore to question him farther, or to comment in any way. The spring days grew longer, and the sap in all growing things rose higher with each hour's climbing of the life-giving sun. Grass, flowers, grain, trees, birds, clouds, insects, and even the brown earth turned by the plough, seemed conscious of the renewal of life and love and hope. But, for some reason, as the days hurried Charlie toward his wedding-day anniversary, the peace which had been his all winter, fled, and he grew sadder and thinner while his old-time restlessness came upon him. He lost appetite and sleep;  and even the springing grain and flashing green waters of his deep irrigation canal once so beautiful to him, now lost charm and failed to arouse his interest. For some reason all the later letters from his mother had simply ignored his trouble, and her cheerful, optimistic words to him jarred him with silent misery. How could she be so unsympathetic when she knew he was still alone and suffering. Even the Olsons smiled and joked him as if his troubles were all over, and he needed congratulation rather than sympathy. His house was finished. Doors, windows, partitions and even cupboards and two good closets were completed and painted. His own hands had pounded every nail and set every window sash. He had painted and whitewashed the two rooms with scrupulous care. "What on earth are you making now?" inquired his friend Olson from the doorway as he found Charlie working one Saturday evening. "This is to be a home-made writing desk. See! It is to be fastened against the wall and the lid will shut up, so, when closed, and when can and let down it will be a desk on which to write." "Well, you are quite a genius. Instead of wasting your evenings reading cheap literature, you are making every moment count for good. But, you do need a good wife, my A DOMESTIC DRAMA 717 boy, to keep all this clean and to make it home. We men can't do that, you know." work, "Yes, that's so," replied the youth, going on with his "You've built the nest, boy, but there's no life in it. Things look cold and dead." • "They feel that way," answered the young man almost in a whisper. "What will you do if your wife should die or pass out of your life, my boy?" Charlie found this probing almost unbearable, but it was not often that his good friend had ever pried into his conference, and he felt he owed him some measure of trust. So he replied, after a sad pause: "God has my wife in his keeping;  and I feel that if Myrtle never returns, still I shall not be left hopeless and alone. I have tried to be true to my faith and my parents' teaching;  and I know that I shall not be left forever alone." The older man drew oft" his hat with a touch "of reverence, and said simply: "Amen." But Charlie was not as resigned as his words might imply. He found it impossible to sleep a single moment of that Saturday night. The next day, the Sabbath, would be the anniversary of his wedding day. His mind and heart were crowded with painful thoughts and memories. No work could appease, no book silence, this soul starvation. He had given every atom of his heart to his young and brilliant bride. She had thrown it aside, but he could not, as yet, draw back the gift he had given. God alone knew how he had loved her. and how willing he had been to sacrifice every selfish desire to increase her love or happiness. And she was so lovely, so bright, and so altogether desirable. She had one terrible lack — the greatest of all! And that lack was not the lack of domestic training. Yet, he acknowledged bitterly that her mother had not equipped her daughter for life's responsibilities as his father and mother had trained him. And yet — he could have overlooked that — he would have waited, and helped, and hoped, until time and love had overcome that difficulty. He well knew that good housekeeping was not the first, best, nor sole requirement for the wife and mother, yet it was the second one and a vastly necessary accomplishment. He was aware that men sometimes make good citizen. good husbands, and good fathers, even if they are not thrift} and provident. But oh — men and women both must be loyal — loyal, true, patient, and brave! That was the deepest sword 
 thrust of all. His wife was disloyal, — disloyal and untrue. He hurried his face in his hands and groaned aloud. "Oh God! Be merciful" — if God could and would hear his agonized cry! With a dry sob in his throat, he sprang to his feet, and, in the fresh dawn of the sleepless night, his strained eyes saw the lack in this new house of his, which his friend had spoken of the night before. Everything was clean — his own poor, weary hands kept it so. He could not have borne to see another than Myrtle's or his own hands touch these bits of furnishings gathered by themselves. But, oh the coldness, and the bareness of it all. It chilled his blood and froze his very spirit. He pulled open the hood of his trunk, and from the bottom plucked his prized possession, Myrtle's quilt, her own handiwork. The sight of it almost crazed him with grief. He flung it on his bed with a gesture of despair, and dashed out of the house, without even closing the door behind him;  then he drew his fleetest horse from the stable, and springing upon her back, without saddle or guided her with twisted rope far out into the disbridle, tan the wilderness. He forgot it was the Sabbath, forgot he had cares and duties, either temporal or spiritual. He was alone — alone, in a universe of pain and sick, silent suffering. Like one possessed, he rode, and rode, till the wilderness and he were face to face, and heart to heart. CHAPTER Vn. It was in the late twilight that he at last found himself once more on his road homeward. How the day had passed, he had no recollection. There were miles and miles of sagebrush, deep green sluggish waters, with willows and grasses bending over them, and the faint white-capped Tetons on the far eastern horizon all nierged in a single blur of misery and woe. Where he had been or what he had done, he never knew, could never recall. But now, as darkness closed the eyes of day, he came slowly homeward;  his horse, jaded and famished, gradually increased her pace as home and shelter were near. The day was sunny, but cold and chilly;  not so warm and beautiful as was that wondrous day in Utah one year before. Some way, Charlie had hoped against hope, as he had prayed without faith, that his wife would have broken the silence before the first wedded year was up. And now, now that their wedding anniversary was come and gone, he saw that there was no hope for their future happiness and that A DOMESTIC DRAMA 719 he must prepare to face life with a new purpose and a fresh ideal. Well, he would go to his lonely home;  and before he slept, he would break the long silence between them and offer her the freedom she craved. He could not, and would not, endure this agony of suspense another day. It was not in human nature to be longer patient. There came a time when even that virtue lost its savor. As he turned the last corner of his own land, he saw a light streaming out from the front windows of his house. What could it mean? "Another surprise party, I suppose," he muttered, as he checked the speed of his mare. "I wish all these people were in Hades. Why do they come to torture me on such a night!" He unsaddled his horse deliberately, dreading with unspeakable horror, the task of meeting another crowd of merry-makers. For a moment he hesitated, thinking he would ride away again and leave those within to their own devices;  yet his native courtesy prevented this, for he realized on second thought that no one knew what this day meant to him. He would reconnoiter. Stealing softly up to the lighted window in the sitting room, he was amazed to see the window draped within by soft, flowing white curtains, but the green shades were not drawn down, and as the house seemed perfectly quiet, he made bold to go close up to the glass. His amazement became stupefaction as he gazed on the transformation within. All the windows were draped with white curtains, while house-plants flanked the window sills, the crowding geraniums and ferns glowing with beauty between the white veils. The house was surely his own, and yet how different. There were cushions on the chairs, a long couch filled with pillows in a corner and the corner was draped with a gay background whereon were disposed flags and photographs in bewildering profusion. Rugs were strewn over the floor, home-made rugs, but with homely artistic beauty in every twisted knot. The mantle shelf was turned into a thing of beauty with one beautiful yet simple Venetian glass vase of wild flowers, and a pretty bronze clock ticking away the moments. There were pictures, framed prints which he knew to be copies of the masters, hanging upon the wall. The little writing desk he had fashioned the night before, stood open, and all the little shelves and pigeonholes were filled with stationary. A pen and a half-written letter lay on the lid as if some one had 
 been interrupted in finishing a letter. On the top of this little desk stood a small Rookwood vase, its green and brown and gold accentuated into exquisite loveliness with a handful of yellow dandelions. The stove was brilliant with a recent polishing, while under it lay the very square of bright oil cloth he had hoped some day to see there. The table was covered with a bran-new art square of good design, if cheap quality. His eyes flashed over to the cupboard he had built into the wall with such care;  its small-paned glass doors which he had fashioned with keen pleasure from a design he had found in "The Craftsman" were open as usual. Yet, the same strange power had been there, too. For instead of the few poor dishes he had left on these shelves, there was a whole set of new yet inexpensive blue china. The plates were ranged upright at the back, the cups hung from small hooks in the front of the shelves, while the rest of the shelves were piled with tureens, platters and glassware. What did it all mean? Was he asleep? He actually pinched himself, for his dreams during the lonely winter now passed had pictured all these things, even to the blue china which contrasted so prettily with the oiled white pine woodwork. Was it Agnes Olson again? Was she playing him some trick? Who, and when? These questions surged through his amazed and perturbed mind with a pain that was almost physical. Hark! That was a strange sound which he was sure came from the darkened bedroom, the door of which was opened into the lighted living room. Was it a kitten some one had brought and left within? Hark! Again! Frenzied with a thousand emotions, he flew to the front door, and tore it open with anguished fingers. Just as he did so, a lady stood in the inner door, leading to the bedroom. God in Heaven! It was Myrtle! His wife! Oh, now for patience! Courage and patience! What was that soft bundle of white which she held in her arms, close, close to her heaving breast? Courage now. no faintness. Patience to read this riddle! What was that light in Myrtle's eyes? The light of other days? Nay, a new, a fairly glorified radiance which veiled her like a garment, and centered its rays upon that strange white burden within her arms! What was it? Ah — motherhood! These emotions took ages of time to swell and break upon the shores of that tortured heart which beat within the breast over which Charlie had clasped his arms. But measured in A DOMESTIC DRAMA 7» time, it was only a few seconds before he whispered huskily. "Myrtle!" The young mother looked up at that still form in the doorway, and her own calm, happy gaze faltered and fell beneath the tragedy of those sad eyes. But with the sweet tact of a woman she said gently: "Are we welcome, baby and I?" The calm voice soothed him as nothing earthly could have done. With a man's swift instinct for privacy, he flew to the windows and drew the shades;  then, locking the door as if to shut out the whole world from his resurrected love, he drew gently near the rocking chair whereon sat his wife, and without speech, he kneeled beside the chair and clasped both wife and child in his hungry, lonely arms. After a little, they both found speech. With a light, reverent touch, the young father caressed the delicate brown hair which covered the tiny head. "He is called Charles Peter Winthrop, Junior. Ought he not to have his father's name when he is so much like you? Your own curls, you see. And his eyes are blue, like yours, very dark and beautiful. Do you not wonder at his beauty? He is a constant marvel, an hourly revelation of delight to my unworthy heart," . Oh, thank God, Charles was saying over and over in his heart, that he had been patient. This was the fruit of his love and patience. Never before had man tasted such perfect delight. "You are pleased with the house?" asked his wife, anxious to explain and break the tense situation. "You see, Agnes Olson has helped me to do all this. I do really believe, Peter," with a woman's keen insight and quick confession, "that Agnes could have loved you very easily. And at one time, I would not have cared. But we kept up a regular correspondence, Aggie and I. after I had answered her first letter at Christmas time. Some way I was very proud, and really, I am sure you couldn't quite see all my side of the question, any more than I saw yours. I was ill. far worse than I realized, I was so ignorant," and she caressed the curly head nestled in her arm as she spoke. "But I couldn't bear to grumble too much to you. you had so many troubles: but that last morning," the young man winced, and as he turned away the babe broke out with the sudden cry of sleeping infancy. Both parents bent their energies to quiet the little sleeper, and then the mother resumed: 
 "That morning, I was very sick, I tried to get up and do something;  and as I went out to clear up the things about the stove, I saw a snake in this very rocking chair. It was the last straw. You left me alone so much — I know you could not help it— but I was lonely and very frightened. Yet I was too proud or too ignorant to tell you exactly how felt. O yes, dearest dear, I can see now, how idle and shiftless I was, as well, but I did not realize it then. But when I got back home, even mother began to understand that my trouble was mostly my own fault. After some miserable days I grew very homesick to see you;  yet I dimly realized that it would be no use for me to come back, unless there was some change in me. At last I decided to go to the Brigham Young university with my brother who was there at school in the big church university, and mother said she would come down and take care of us both. I suppose mother sympathized with me at first, more or less, and no doubt she said some bitter things about the matter. But I started right in to study domestic science. I made up my mind that if you could learn farming and make a success of it from study and experience, I could learn housekeeping;  and I determined to be able to make a success of it before I asked you to let me return. Of course I could not complete the whole course given in the school, but I learned man}-- things. Most of all I learned to know what loyalty and integrity mean, from the teachings we all received from the noble head of that lovely school. My own faults and your virtues increased before my eyes with every day's experience in those halls. Agnes wrote me at Christmas time — such a good, kind yet sad letter. I answered it, but begged her not to let any human being know we were corresponding. I began to plan for my return to you, and I did so want to make it a surprise, and I was wild to come back and surprise you on our wedding day." "Oh, my dear," said Charlie, "if you had only written me one line, you would have saved me so much suffering." The young wife drew his head within her arms, and kissed him again and again. "Maybe I was wrong, dear, but I did so want to have it that way. We came back to the city, mother and I, in February, and I had many long visits with your good mother. She, too, agreed to keep my secret, so I thought it would be all right. Baby was born on the 10th of March. Mother thought it was a little risky, my coming here when he is so young, only five weeks old;  but I am well. Well and strong! And I just could not wait another day nor hour." A DOMESTIC DRAMA 722 Again she paused to caress the curly head lying on her shoulder, and the other tiny curly one resting in the shelter of her arm. Charles Peter was holding in his clasped 'hand the tiny rose-leaf hand of that other Charles Peter who had come so suddenly and sweetly into his life. "Agnes and her sweetheart brought me here today and helped me to fix up the house. We expected you would go to Idaho Falls for the day with Mr. Olson;  but when we found you gone, and the mare missing from the stable. I suspected where you had gone — for I knew just what this day was to you, for it is the same to me. So we just rushed things. We watched for you all day, but towards night all was done, and they went away to leave me to wait for my husband." The baby began to be restless, and the mother arose to put it out of her arms. "Bring the lamp, dear, and we will lay him down. He can't sleep so well in my arms." As they entered the bedroom, Charlie saw that the same beautiful change had been wrought in this room also. A large basket stood near the bed, filled with pillows, and over it was the pretty pieced quilt he loved so well. "Baby can have this basket as a bed for awhile. Some day you can make him a small bed, or cradle, without rockers though. I have learned some things about the proper care of a baby, by reading and study. Both our mothers have been making up for lost time by filling me with all sorts of new and old truths about babyhood and motherhood." As she tucked the quilt about the basket, she asked: "Do you remember this old quilt?" — did he remember it! — "this was my first handiwork, but by no means my last. Why I have file every stitch of baby's wardrobe by hand. I got some lovely lessons from the lady who teaches domestic art in the Brigham Young university. O, I tell you, I am a changed Myrtle, and if you don't believe it, you will when you see me sign my name — Myrtle Ann — as I always do now. I was just writing a word to mother on your cute little desk when baby cried — and then you came." Myrtle Ann! The sweet old-fashioned second name brought a savor of home and duty to his thoughts. His" wife was surely changed if she had grown to love her second name. "You shall call me Myrtle when you remember our old days and first love — and when you find me growing sensible and good just call me Ann — and I will understand at once." 
 "Sweetheart," he said, "I am greedy for happiness. God and you have pressed my measure full and running over this right;  but even so, another wishful thought rises in my heart. If God again blesses you and me, and gives to us a little girl-child to comfort and complete our perfect joy — we will call her — Ann. Just Ann! For out of the past, old-fashioned names, old-fashioned virtues and old-fashioned joys rise and haunt me with their grave and sweet old glory. We will forget our past, and begin the world anew tonight. This is our wedding day, our wedded day." Once more the baby stirred, and above its couch the parents knelt to sooth its restless slumbers. GIFT TO CHURCH BY MR. AND MRS. A. W. McCUNE. November 10. 1920. Mr. and Mrs. A. W. McCune, 153 West Adams Street, Los Angeles, California. Dear Brother and Sister McCune: The General Board of the Relief Society would like to express in some measure the gratitude and love which they feel toward you, especially since learning of the magnificent gift which you tendered so simply, so unostentatiously, to the Church, mentioning the women's organizations as the preferable recipients of your noble bounty. That your thought. Sister McCune, should reach out first to your co-workers in this matter, is not surprising to us who know and love you so well. We are very well acquainted with your tender sympathy for human needs, your unfaltering devotion to the cause of truth, and above all, we know how you long to do all in your power to hasten the day of fulfilment when Christ himself shall come and bring peace to this earth. We have heard that you said the Lord had given you this beauteous dwelling place, and that you would now give it back to Him. How characteristic of your gentle, saintly attitude toward life in all its varied phases that saying was! But we also realize that were it not for the gift of business acumen possessed in supreme measure by your no less princely and generous husband, you could not thus have manifested your love for the cause of woman and of the Church. God bless you both for this! And He will. All the prayers and promises uttered by President Grant in the late conference we repeat in fullest measure. Dear sister, you have removed from us for a season, but we trust you will carry the good message of hope and love to the Relief Society members wherever you go. Your influence will be felt for righteousness wherever your lot may be cast. We hope for your return to us, and to your labors here, whenever circumstances permit. May the benediction of peace and plenty rest upon your household is the prayer of Yours sisters and co-workers. President. First Counselor. Second Counselor.