[Vol7 | December 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: EditorialThe Pilgrims Came]

EDITORIAL Entered second at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto— Charity Neyer Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor --------- SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager ------- JANETTE A. HYDE Aaaiatont Manager ------- AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII December, 1920 No. 12 The Pilgrims Came History measures results, not efforts. Men make history only when they impress good or evil upon group life. A. hermit genius might leave behind some single token of supreme power as expressed in literature, music or marble. Rut the genius who can so express his will upon the plastic minds of his fellows that neither time nor distance may offer permanent obstacle much less oblivion — that genius, whatever his form of expression, engraves eternal characters on the pages of history, here and hereafter. The impress made by the Pilgrims on the life-history of America is out of all proportion to their numbers, their time of arrival and their previous condition. Two remarkable facts lie at the root of this truth: the party of pilgrim* were intensely individualized. Each man and each woman dynamic human unit. Courage, faith, integrity, and keen religious fervor were integral parts of each soul who landed at Plymouth Rock, December 21, 1620. That and the other far more remarkable fact that this group of strong souls could realize so keenly the saving power of group-form — what we call today, teamwork — this second binding obligation kept them together, molded differences, mellowed do secrecies and knit up the group into a dominating force which later compelled "teamwork" from the wrangling and far more 
 austere Puritans who followed them. It permeated life in the new colonies, reaching out to the bounds of Jamestown, finally, and later, even converting aristocrats like George Washington. At last it focused into itself the spirit and genius of "1776," creating a free America out of a dependent English colony. Was not the gun whose shot echoed around the world fired in Lexington? Did not Boston hold the tea party? And yet South of Massachusetts swarmed the Dutch in New York, and Pennsylvania, while the south harbored English and French aristocratic adventures by the thousands? Follow the stream of American history, listen to the waves of measurable harmony and cohesion which broke yesterday, and break upon our national shores today, and you will find the individual integrity and group spirit of the Pilgrims lingering as the undertone of all the sounding tides. To Utah came the descendants of these life path-finders. The Pioneers, like the Pilgrims, carried the group sword of justice sheathed by mercy's individual need. The torch of reason was lit. by a live coal from the altar of revelation. And each strong soul, man and woman, knew that only in group-form could, they persist. Here, as in their New England homes, they set up their altar fires within their homes, and each to each gave service for service. To such belong the kingdom of heaven. We do well to honor the Pilgrims and the Pioneers! We do better when our own lives carry on the dominant spirit of individual integrity united with devoted group service. NEW BOOK BY NEPHI L. MORRIS. Orie of our most eloquent speakers and widely-known publicists. Elder Nephi L. Morris, has entered the field of literature with a very valuable contribution, "Prophecies of Joseph Smith and their Fulfilment," published by the Deseret Book Company. The kindly encouragement of the veteran publisher and friend of all Utah authors, Walter J. Lewis, has helped to make this book possible, as the author gratefully acknowledges. The book presents many vital points concerning prophecy which would have to be hunted for in histories, biographies, and forgotten manuscripts. It will be an ever present help in time of need to missionaries, students, and saints generally. Particularly interesting today is the chapter concerning the return of the Jews to Palestine, the wonderful prayer and prophecy of Orson Hyde, and the present fulfilment of all that was foretold. It has been adopted by the M. I. A. Reading Course, 1920-1921.