			MEMORIAL.

To the Honorable President, and the Senate
	and House of Representatives of the United
	States in Congress Assembled.

	GENTLEMEN—We, you memorialists, re-
spectfully represent that at a mass meeting of
the women of Utah, held in the Theatre, Salt
Lake City, March 6, 1886, attended by over
two thousand ladies, representing the wives,
mothers, sisters and daughters of the whole
Territory, the following was unanimously
adopted:

	[Here followed the resolutions, which were
published in the last issue of this paper.—ED.]

	In pursuance of this appointment we pre-
sent the following in behalf of the women
of Utah:
	On the 22nd of March, 1882, an act of
Congress was passed which is now commonly
known as the Edmunds law. It was generally
understood to have been framed for the pur-
pose of settling what is called the Utah ques-
tion, by condoning plural marriages up to that
date and preventing their occurrence in the
future, and also to protect the home, maintain
the integrity of the family and shield innocent
women and children from the troubles that
might arise from its enforcement. But instead
of being administered and executed in this
spirit, it has been made the means of inflicting
upon the women of Utah immeasurable sorrow
and unprecedented indignities, of disrupting
families, of destroying homes, and of outrag-
ing the tenderest and finest feelings of human
nature.
	The law has been so construed by the courts
as to bring its penalties to bear upon the in-
nocent. Men who had honestly arranged with
their families so as to keep within the limits
of the law, have been punished with the great-
est possible severity, and their wives and child-
ren have been forced before courts and grand
juries, and compelled to disclose the most sacred
and private relations which in all civilized 
countries are held sacred to the parties. The
meaning of the law has been changed so many 
times that no one can say definitely what is its
signification. Those who have lived by the
law, as interpreted in one case, find, as soon
as they are entrapped, that a new ren-
dering is constructed to make it applicable to
their own. Under the latest ruling, a man
who has contracted plural marriages, no mat-
ter at how remote a date, must not only repudi-
ate his families and cease all connection with
them, but if he is known to associate with
them in the most distant manner, support them
and show any regard whatever for their wel-
fare, the offense of unlawful cohabitation is
considered to have been fully established, and
he is liable to exorbitant fines and imprison-
ment for an indefinite period, one district judge 
holding that a separate indictment may be
found for each day of such association and
recognition. In the case of Solomon Edwards,
recently accused of this offense, it was proven
by the evidence for the prosecution, that the
defendant had lived with one wife only since
the passage of the Edmunds Act, but after 
having separated from his former plural wife,
he called with his legal wife at the former's
residence to obtain a child, an agreement hav-
ing been made that each party should have
one of the two children, and the court ruled
that this was unlawful cohabitation in the
meaning of the law, and defendant was con-
victed.
	In the case of Lorenzo Snow, now on ap-
peal to the Supreme Court of the United
States, the evidence for the prosecution showed

[Column 2]
that the defendant had lived with only one
wife since the passage of the Edmunds law,
that he had not even visited other portions of
his family except to call for a few moments to
speak to one of his sons, but because he sup-
ported his wives and children and did not ut-
terly and entirely cast them off, under instruc-
tions of Judge Orlando W. Powers he was
convicted three times for the alleged offense
and sentenced in each case to the full penalties
of the law, aggregating $900 fine besides costs,
and eighteen months' imprisonment, the Judge
stating in his instructions to the jury: "It is
not necessary that the evidence should show
that the defendant and these women, or either
of them, occupied the same bed, slept in the
same room or dwelt under the same roof." "The
offense of cohabitation is complete, when a
man, to all outward appearances, is living or
associating with two or more women as his
wives."
	The women who are dependent upon the
men whom they regard as their husbands, with
whom they have lived, as they have regarded
it, in honorable wedlock, must not only be
separated from their society and protection,
but must be treated as outcasts and be driven
forth with their children to shame and distress,
for the bare "association" of friendship is
counted a crime and punished with all the
severity inflicted upon those who have not in
any way severed their plural family rela-
tions.	
	In order to fasten the semblance of guilt
upon men accused of this offense, women are
arrested and forcibly taken before sixteen men
and plied with questions that no decent woman
can hear without a blush. Little children are ex-
amined upon the secret relations of their pa-
rents, and wives in regard to their own condi-
tion and the doings of their husbands. If
they decline to answer they are imprisoned in
the penitentiary as though they were criminals.
A few instances we will cite for your considera-
tion:
	In the Third District Court Nov. 14, 1882,
Annie Gallifant, having been asked by the
Grand Jury a number of questions which she
declined to answer, one of them being as to
the name of the man to whom she was married,
she was brought into court, and still declining,
was sent to the penitentiary where, although
daily expecting to become a mother, she was
kept till the Grand Jury was discharged. On
the trial of John Connelly, she was again
brought into court and asked: "When did
you first cohabit with your husband?"
	"How long after you commenced cohabit-
ing with your husband was it that your child
was born?"
	Miss B. Harris was sentenced to fine and
imprisonment in the Second District Court at
Beaver, by Judge Twiss, because she declined
to answer whether she was a married woman,
and if so, who was her husband. She was
taken to the penitentiary, a building used for
the confinement of criminals of the most hide-
ous types, with her babe in her arms, and
leaving one behind with her mother. When
asked the questions mentioned, by the grand
jury, she answered, "Gentlemen, you have no
legal right to ask this question; and I decline
to answer it."
	The question was an insult and a vile in-
sinuation of departed virtue; and yet were she
a public prostitute, no such question would ever
be asked. She was fined $25 and imprisoned
three and a half months, when she was released
by Judge Twiss. She is a lady with strength
of character, who was defending a principle;
her right as a witness was as sacred as any
right recognized in courts. She was a martyr
to personal right, and in defense of a vital
principle of freedom. The question was
not directed to her knowledge of any crime, but
to her social relation to another, she not being
charged with any crime.

[Column 3]
	On May 22, 1884, in the same court, Nellie
White, for refusing to answer personal questions
in regard to her relations with Jared Roundy,
was sent to the penitentiary, under the same
roof with murderers, burglars and other con-
victs, and confined there until July 7th, the
Grand Jury being kept over and not discharged
for the purpose of protracting her imprison-
ment until the beginning of a new term.
	In the court of U. S. Commissioner McKay,
June 20, 1885, Elizabeth Ann Starkey was
brought in as a witness against Charles S.
White. On refusing to answer the question,
"Have you ever in this county, within the last
two years, occupied the same bed with defend-
ant," she was sentenced to one day's imprison-
ment and a fine of $50, and placed in the cus-
tody of the U. S. Marshal until payment.
	On June 22nd, she again declined to answer,
and was fined $100 and committed until pay-
ment.
	On June 24th she refused to answer similar
personal questions to the grand jury, and was
committed to the penitentiary until August
21st, but was again imprisoned and kept till
October 6th. While in prison she was ap-
proached and grossly insulted by an employe
of the Marshal's.
	On the 15th of September, 1885, Eliza
Shafer was sent to the penitentiary for refusing
to answer the question, "Have you, within three
years past, lived and cohabited with J. W.
Snell as his wife?" The Court ordered her im-
prisonment until the question was answered.
	On February 15th, 1886, Mrs. Martha F.
Cannon was brought into the Third District
Court, and the Grand Jury complained that
she would not answer certain questions, among
them the following: "Are you not now a preg-
nant woman?" "Are you not now with child
by your husband, George Q. Cannon?" On
still declining to answer, the Court adjudged her
guilty of contempt, and pending sentence she
was placed under bonds of $2,500, which were
subsequently raised to $5,000.
	On March 2nd, 1886, Miss Huldah Winters
was arrested by Deputy Marshal Vandercook
at her home in Pleasant Grove, forty miles dis-
tant, no charge being preferred against her,
but it was suspected that she was a plural wife
of George Q. Cannon. She was brought to
Salt Lake City and conducted to the court
house, where she was required to furnish bonds
for $5,000 for her appearance from time to 
time as she might be wanted.
	Under the suspicion that any woman or
young lady is some man's plural wife she is
liable at any time to be arrested, not merely
subpoenaed, but taken by force by deputy mar-
shals and brought before a grand jury and ex-
amined and brow-beaten and insulted by the
Prosecuting Attorney or his minions. But
this is not all. In defiance of law and the
usages of courts for ages, the legal wife is now
compelled to submit to the same indignities.
	On Feb. 20, 1886 in the Third District Court
in the second trial of Isaac Langton upon
whom the prosecution had failed to fasten the
slightest evidence of guilt, Prosecuting At-
torney Dickson exclaimed: "If the Court will
allow me I would like to call Mrs. Langton"
(defendant's legal wife.) After a strong pro-
test from the attorneys for the defendant, the
Court permitted the outrage and against her
and her husband's consent, she was compelled
to testify for the prosecution; the evidence
however completely exonerating the husband,
who was discharged.
	But this has now been set up as a precedent,
and within the past few days a legal wife has
been taken before the Grand Jury, as many
have been before, who refused to give evidence,
but this time was compelled to answer the
questions propounded by the public prosecutor
against the lawful husband.
	We also direct your attention to the out-


[Column 1]

rages perpetrated by rough and brutal deputy
marshals, who watch around our dooryards,
peer into our bedroom windows, ply little child-
ren with questions about their parents, and
when hunting their human prey, burst into
people's domiciles and terrorize the innocent.
	On Jan. 11, 1886, early in the morning, five
deputy marshals appeared at the residence of
Wm. Grant, American Fork, forced the front
door open, and while the inmates were still in
bed, made their way up stairs to their sleeping
apartments. There they were met by one of
the daughters of Wm. Grant, who was aroused
at the intrusion, and despite her protestations,
without giving time for the object of their
search to get up and dress himself, made their
way into his bedroom, finding him still in bed
and his wife en dishabille in the act of dressing
herself.
	Early on the morning of Jan. 13, 1886, a
company of deputies invaded the peaceful vil-
lage of West Jordan, and under pretense of
searching for polygamists, committed a num-
ber of depredations. Among other acts of
violence they intruded into the house of F. A.
Cooper, arrested him and subpoenead his legal
wife as a witness against him. This so shocked
her that a premature birth occurred next day,
and her system was so deranged by the disturb-
ance that in a few days she was in her grave.
	Feb. 23, 1886, at about 11 o'clock at night,
two deputy marshals visited the house of
Solomon Edwards, about seven miles from
Eagle Rock, Idaho, and arrested Mrs. Edwards,
his legal wife, after she had retired to bed, and
required her to accompany them immediately
to Eagle Rock. Knowing something of the
character of one of the deputies, from his hav-
ing visited the house before, when he indulged
in a great deal of drinking, profanity and abuse,
she feared to accompany them without some
protection, and requested a neighbor to go
along on horseback while she rode in the buggy
with the two deputies. On the way the buggy
broke down and she with an infant in her
arms, was compelled to walk the rest of the
distance—between two and three miles.
	They could have no reason for subpoenaing
her in the night, and compelling her to accom-
pany them at such an untimely hour except a
fiendish malice and a determination to heap
all the indignities possible upon her because
she was a "Mormon" woman, for she never at-
tempted to evade the serving of the warrant,
and was perfectly willing to report herself at
Eagle Rock the next day. She was taken to
Salt Lake City to testify against her husband.
	On Feb. 23, 1886, Deputy Marshal Gleason
went to Greenville, near Beaver, Utah. The
story of their conduct is thus related by the
ladies who were the subjects of their violence:

