		BRIGHAM CITY, Mar, 18, 1886.

Editor Exponent:
	It is some length of time since the young ladies
of Box Elder County have been represented
through your columns so I take this opportun-
ity of briefly reporting our present condition.
	On the evening of the 8th inst. our taber-
nacle was filled with a large, orderly and ap-
preciative audience who had assembled to
witness an entertainment given under the aus-
pices of the officers of the Y. M. and Y. L.
M. I. Associations of Brigham City when the
following programme was presented: Glee,
"The wolf is on the hill," by the choir. Prayer
by N. Madison. Singing, "The coming day,"
children of Israel from Egypt," by E. A. Box;
Music by Theatre Orchestra; Essay on "Mutual
Improvement," Mrs. Hattie Jensen; Rec.
"Creeds of the Bells," J. D. Peters; Quartette,
"Moonlight will come again," Pres. Minnie J.
Snow and others;  Rec. "The Wich's Daugh-
ter," Miss Freddie Widerborg. Solo and
chorus, "Once a friend, a friend forever," Miss
Ettie Madsen and others; Address, Pres. N. P.
Andersen; Rec. O. N. Stohl. Jr.; Duet, "See the
pale moon," Mr. and Mrs. E. H. Pierce; Rec.
"Jehovah's triumph over Baal," Eph Jensen.
Violin Solo and organ accompanyment "Sweet
Spirit hear my prayer," C. Christensen and
Mrs. Pierce.
	Apostle Lorenzo Snow followed in a short
address; his remarks were replete with wise
counsel and advice to the young, and en-
couraged them in the onward march of im-
provement. This  proved his last appearance
in public before going to the Penitentiary.
	The Y. L. Quarterly Conference of Box
Elder Stake, convened in the Brigham City
tabernacle Mar. 10th 1886, at 10 a. m. Prest.
Minnie J. Snow presiding. Although the
weather was extremely unfavorable,
it did not prevent a good attendance.
	After the usual opening exercises, Prest. M.
J. Snow offered a few words of greeting. Felt
grateful that we were still permitted to peace-
fully assemble for purposes of worship, in
these troublesome times, Secretary L. S.
Pelro[-] road the semi annual reports exhibiting


a very favorable condition of the Associations
throughout the stake.
	Presidents Anna Hansen, Amy Madsen,
Eliza Davis and others offered interesting and
spirited remarks filled with advice and exhor-
tations to the young girls to tread the path of
virtue and be loyal to the principles of truth.
The following subjects, "The Art of Conversa-
tion," by Lydia S. Pierce; "Fashion and Dress,"
Coun. Freddie Widerborg; "Association of
the Sexes," Coun. Hattie Jensen; "Deportment
in places of worship," Prest. Minnie J. Snow;
"Obedience to the Priesthood," Ettie Madsen;
and "Politeness," by Phena Madsen,were treat-
ed upon in an able, impressive and intelligent
manner; quotations from reliable authors were
cited and the virtues and evils of the different
features of these subjects dwelt upon by the
speakers.
	Bro. N. P. Anderson, Stake Prest. of the
Y. M. M. I. A. then addressed the sisters; tes-
tified that the Spirit of the Lord had been
present.  He spoke of the principle of virtue,
and considered it one of the greatest gifts
given to us in the world since it is eternal, we
should remember that our  actions are also
eternal. He asked God’s help to assist us in;
practising the instructions given. Singing.
Benediction. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	A commendable interest in he work of Im-
provement is noticable; particularly among the
officers of our association here, who are indeed,
laboring with  their might” in its cause.
		Respectfully,
