NOTES AND NEWS.

	Madame Patti has been offered six thousand
dollars a night to sing in concerts in South
America.

	Miss Cleveland denies that she wrote the
much quoted statement of her views on the
matter of low-necked dresses. But she says
that it expresses her sentiments.

	Mrs. Frances Hodgson Burnett has nearly
finished a new novel, which will appear in the
Century. Its completion has been delayed by
her illness.

	Miss Abigail Bates, one of the two women,
who, with fife and drum, were instrumental in
driving the British from Scituate Harbor dur-
ing the war of 1812, died last week at the age
of eighty-nine years. She was the last of a
long-lived family.

	Letters attributed to Miss Cleveland on the
subject of dress have caused much comment
pro and con. Perhaps it would be useful to
consider how bare shoulders and arms would
be regarded if men appeared with them in
public. The force of custom has much to do 
with modes of dress. But in our climate
reasons of health, if not of modesty, require
ample protection for the body.

	Dr. Mary Alice Avery wins the reward of
public official recognition at the hands of Dr.
Richardson, for a deed of heroism which he
well designates as "the bravest act of the fire
of February 12." Dr. Avery, at great per-
sonal peril and with wonderful courage and
coolness, rescued an insane patient, who was
shut up in her room at the extreme end of the
fourth-story hall. It was a plucky deed that
should not have waited a whole year for its ac-
knowledgment.—Bulletin.

	Miss Augusta Holmes has nearly finished
composing an opera. She has chosen as her
subject an antique legend of Erin, and has
composed her own libretto. Miss Holmes
spent last autumn in London, studying the
ancient Irish mss. in the British Museum. Her
compositions are played in the concerts of the
conservatoire in Paris, and her symphony on
her favorite theme, "Ireland," has been re-
ceived with acclamation by the French public
and critics.

	The public hearing given by the U.S. House
Committee on Territories, at the Capitol, in
Washington, on Friday, March 19, on the
petition of the American Woman Suffrage
Association, for a law guaranteeing women
equal suffrage in the Territories, was a notable
event. Delegate Carey, of Wyoming, gave
emphatic testimony to the benefit which has
resulted from woman suffrage during sixteen
years' trial in that territory. Representative
John D. Long spoke with effective earnest-
ness in behalf of the proposed legislation.
The addresses of Rev. Annie H. Shaw and
Mrs. Mary Hunt were excellent, and Mr. 
Blackwell made a strong presentation of the
facts justifying and demanding prompt affirma-
tive action on the part of Congress.


