MRS. PRESIDENT AND LADIES:

	Though absent from your midst on this momen-
tous occasion, I am with you in heart and feeling.
Would I were with you, though it is in trying to
benefit our common cause, and not from choice,
that I am still away. Ye are my people, and I can
say as Ruth to Naomi, "Whither thou goest I will
go, and where thou lodgest I will lodge; thy peo-
ple shall be my people, and thy God my God."
	I rejoice in the demonstration you are making
to-day in protesting against indignities, cruelties
and grievous wrongs. It is the duty of every
citizen of the United States to stand boldly forth
in defense of freedom, justice and the rights of
conscience; the people owe this loyalty to their
country, and to this free government established
"by the people and for the people."
	If the women of Utah did not publicly protest
against the indignities and insults that are almost
daily being offered to their sister women, under
pretense of carrying out the provisions of the Ed-
munds law, they would be unworthy the name they
bear, "the women of Zion," and the religion they
have espoused, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which
gives freedom to all mankind, both Jew and Gen-
tile, bond and free.
	Our honored forefathers fought for the freedom
of this goodly land, and our noble ancestors, the
Pilgrim band,left home, kindred and the graves of
their dead, and their native country, to find a place
of refuge in which to worshipGod according to the
dictates of their own consciences, enduring the
perils of the mighty deep then unexplored, and of
the wilderness, where savage Indians and beasts
of prey had roamed unmolested from time imme-
morial. And when oppressed and tyrranized over
by unjust men and taxed without representation by
the nation that had refused to them the right to
worship God in the way that seemed to them the
best—they resisted it even to the imperiling of
their lives in that great contest of which we are
all so justly proud—the war of the Revolution.
You know its history, and the blood of those im-
mortalized heroes flows in the veins of hundreds
of the Latter-day Saints.
	You know, too, the sentiments embodied in that
glorious instrument the "Declaration of Independ-
ence," given by inspiration of God. And shall
we not maintain our rights under the Constitution
we are proud to honor, and in accordance with its
provisions, which give to every individual freedom
to worship God as his heart dictates? And have
we not the right when it expressly declares and
definitely states that, "Congress shall make no
law respecting an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof?" Yet the
Congress of the United States has passed such a
law and the Supreme Court of the land has de-
clared it constitutional. That law, hard and

[Column 2]
cruel as it seems to us, must be obeyed or the
penalty submitted to, because it has been voted
upon by the majority of those who are empowered
to act for the people, and the masses of the people
who know comparatively nothing of the "Mor-
mons" have decided the matter for them, without
investigation, on the representation of others, and
popular sentiment.
	We are constantly being told that "the fifty-five
millions of people in the United States are deter-
mined to blot out polygamy." Would that the
fifty-five millions of people who are so unrelenting-
ly arrayed against a mere handful to abolish a plu-
rality of wives, would enforce some measure to
secure life, liberty and property and protect virtue,
innocence and the honor of this great people from
the insidious ravages that are eating away the
very life of the nation, destroying the purity of the
young and sapping and undermining the founda-
tions of all that is noblest and best in the struc-
ture of modern society. The proof is apparent
everywhere, that there is a mighty work to do in
the world outside of Utah, and it is not confined
to New England, or New York, Philadelphia or
Washington.
	The women of this fair land are menaced with 
something far more dreadful and nearer home
than a plurality of wives, and there is not a day, if
one observes outside her own immediate home, no,
not an hour, that the sensitive heart is not pained
with the wrongs and the sorrows of women and 
children.
	That greater liberty has been given to women in
our Chnrch than elsewhere is indeed true; that
more equality of sex prevails is undeniable; that
men and women have always voted equally upon
all ecclesiastical matters is a well known fact, and
the utmost freedom of speech has been the right
and privilege of women in the Church from the
first. That all this has been elevating in its ten-
dency, and educational to women every careful
observer must readily perceive. The aim and in-
fluence of our institutions has been to lift woman
up to a higher standard of thought and intelligence,
to protect and guard virtue, to promote self-reli-
ance, and individual development; and it is a
principle of our religion to teach our girls as well
as our boys self-protection, and to instruct our
boys, as well as our girls, that virtue and chastity
are just as essential in man as in woman.
	In common with you I protest mostly solemnly 
and emphatically against the harsh and cruel
measures now being enforced upon our people,
and especially our women and young mothers, who
are from time to time insulted, and every fine feel-
ing of their nature abused, their delicacy and sen-
sibility wounded and outraged by men who are
coarse and cruel; who show no true respect for
womanhood, no regard for the sacredness of
motherhood, And with you I appeal to the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States for pro-
tection from these insults and wrongs to woman,
and would beseech and entreat them for that com-
mon respect and justice to young women and
mothers which the Judges and Courts of the Terri-
tory refuse in every instance to grant,though know-
ing, as they must know, how they violate the most
sacred rights and privileges reserved to woman in
all civilized countries, whatever her condition or
station in life may be.
	And with you I protest against the en-
forcement of any section of a bill, before
it has been made a law according to the 
regular form and order of the government,
and also against unjust Judges and their co-labor-
ers, who pervert and misinterpret the law, and 
usurp power and authority that Congress and the 
Courts have not yet conferred upon them. Com-
pelling a first wife to testify against her husband
is contrary to law, and to the established custom
that has obtained in all ages, and in all civilized
countries, and to threaten with pains and penalties
for refusing to comply with such a requisition is a

[Column 3]
thing unheard of in a country that boasts of its
higher enlightenment, and unbounded protection
to the weaker sex.
	The proposition of Senator Edmunds to dis-
franchise the women of Utah Territory, who have
been invested with the right of suffrage so many
years is simply an act of despotism unworthy a 
man, and can only be aimed at the mere trifle of
political power he would selfishly wrest from
those who have been accused of no offense even
against the Edmunds law; but he hopes perchance
by thus robbing a few defenseless women to throw
the balance of the vote in favor of his own party.
It is not sufficient punishment for this wronged
and persecuted people, to disfranchise all plural 
wives, imprison and banish from their homes and
firesides the husbands of innocent women, and
the fathers of helpless little ones, leaving many
desolated hearths, and filling the land with mourn-
ing, but Senator Edmunds proposes to add insult 
to injury and to disfranchise those who are ac-
cused of no crime whatever. He would rob them 
of a vested right, either for party purposes, or be-
cause of religious belief, making the blow general,
to Mormon and non-Mormon alike, in order to
hide his real motive.
	In the name of justice and of right, I am with
you in indignantly protesting against all the
wrongs and cruelties perpetrated upon the people
of Utah in the name of, and under the sanction of
law; and join heart and hand with you in appeal-
ing to our countrywomen, who value the sanctity 
of home, and the sacredness of family ties, to as-
sist us in maintaining our rights under the Con-
stitution, and also memorializing the President and 
Congress of the United States, entreating them
to grant an impartial administration of the laws,
and to examine into the proceedings of courts and
juries, and take into careful consideration our
present circumstances, and prospects in the near
future, and perchance they may ascertain that
even "Mormon" women have some rights that the
country is bound to respect, and that as rational
beings they are entitled to the protection of the
government under which they live, which guran-
tees to all the rights of conscience.
				Faithfully yours,
						EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	Chicago, Ill.


