TOOELE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety, Young Ladies' and Primary Associa-
tions was held in the Tooele meeting house,
March 13th and 14th, 1886, Mrs. M. A. Hunter
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
Prest. Hunter made a few opening remarks,
during which Sisters Presendia Kimball and
Helen Mar Whitney arrived from Salt Lake
City. Sister Kimball was the first speaker;
She gave a great deal of good counsel and ad-
vice, suitable to all the Saints, both old and
young.
	Sister Whitney spoke very interestingly,
with remarks to suit all, and encouraged all to
live up to their privileges, for we live in very
critical times. She believed that this crusade
would hasten the time when the Lord would
cut His work short in righteousness, and it is
for us to live humble before the Lord. She
spoke at some length in a very encouraging
manner to the sisters on celestial marriage, and
of the great blessings that are in store for all
who live for them. 
	Bishop Atkins was well pleased with the
good instructions the sisters had given, and
urged all to adhere to them.
	The afternoon session, commencing at 2 p.m.,
was for the Primary Conference, Sister Sarah

[Column 3]

Hale, Stake President of the Primary, carried
out the day's programme, consisting of songs,
recitations and dialogues, all of which were
well rendered by the children. The visiting
sisters gave good instructions to the children,
dwelling on honoring their parents and attend-
ing to their prayers.
	In the evening, at 7 o'clock, the young
ladies held their Conference. The Secretary
read the minutes, and also the reports, all of
which were accepted. Verbal reports were
given by the presidents of the Tooele and
Grantsville associations, which showed them in
good running order. Sister Whitney addressed
the audience, which was very large, including
both young ladies and young men, giving
good counsel to the young of both sexes on
many interesting subjects. Other speakers
were Bro. George Atkin, Jun. and Bro. O. O.
Houly. After singing, benediction was uttered
by Bro. Gillespie.
	On Sunday morning the sisters attended and
addressed the Sunday School. In the after-
noon the Relief Society Conference was con-
tinued. After the Sacrament was administered,
the brethren and sisters from Salt Lake City
all spoke of the perilous times that we live in,
and encouraged the Saints to live in such a
way that they can call down the blessings of
God upon them. Bro. C. Hunderson also 
made a few remarks, encouraging the brethren
and sisters to faithfulness, and invoked the
blessing of God upon all.
	Sisters Kimball and Whitney stopped all
the week and visited and cheered the sisters,
for they were full of blessings, and on Saturday
returned home to the city.
		ANN TATE,
	Cor. Sec. for Tooele Stake.


