AND ON THIS."

	The contrast implied by these words of the
immortal bard never found fitter application 
than in the treatment the Latter-day Saints
receive from their traducers and those who 
think it their mission to oppress them, and the
opposite course pursued towards the latter by
the victims of their diabolical hatred. This is 
especially manifest right here, in what is known 
as "the stronghold of Mormonism," where
many of the most unscrupulous enemies of 
this people live, move and have their being, 
unmolested by a single act of aggression or re-
taliation. 
	We may read in the daily prints of out-
rages upon "Mormon" missionaries and their
converts, of mobbings, whippings and drivings, 
and even the assassination of humble, virtuous, 
God-fearing men, who leave their homes, wives
and children, and every social comfort, to go 
forth as wanderers for Christ's sake, to prove
their faith and integrity to His cause and scat-
ter the jewels of His Word among those who
are ignorant of its blessed import. Before our
very eyes a licentious and ribald press heaps
daily abuse and calumny upon men every-
where known to be highminded and honorable
—by none better than those who hate them
worst and abuse them most. We see helpless
women and children lied about most viciously
and branded with infamy undeserved; the
sacred memory of the dead profaned, and all 
that the living cherish and revere, held up as
targets for the blasphemy and ridicule of the
ungodly. And all this because the ones so 
persecuted are “Mormons” and hold to a differ-
ent belief regarding the life here and hereafter, 
to those entertained by their good, kind, Chris-
tian would-be reformers. 
	Moreover, efforts are continually being made,

[Column 2]
in  many instances with success, to lead our 
children away, under pretense of giving them
a free education, from the holy faith which
their fathers and mothers, rather than relin-
quish, would die for. Some of our youth are 
seduced from wisdom's ways and virtue's paths
by the wily arts of the libertine, the gambler, 
and those who earn a livlihood by inheriting
the curse pronounced upon him who "putteth
the cup to his neighbor's lips;" by those of 
smooth face and oily tongue, who clasp hands
with these so-called agents of reform, and hav-
ing "stolen the livery of heaven to serve the
devil in," prostitute the sacred calling they 
thus usurp to subserve their selfish ends and
desires. Our brethren and sisters are hunted 
down as by sleuth-hounds; the sanctity of the
fireside and the sick chamber is invaded, 
fathers and husbands are dragged from the
bosom of their families dependent upon them 
for support, harassed by vexatious suits, 
trumped-up charges and the unwarranted as-
sumptions of small-souled minions of the law; 
held in custody or forced to give exorbitant
bail; insulted, brow-beaten and abused in court, 
and then thrust into prison and punished be-
fore fairly or finally convicted of the offences
charged against them. Mothers, sisters and
wives are summoned before secret tribunals, 
inquisitorial commissioners and grand juries, 
as witnesses against their natural and legal
protectors; catechised indecently by individuals
clothed with an evanescent authority calling
themselves "good men and true,', and wearing
indeed the shape of men, but proving by their
conduct in some instances that from their unre-
generate breasts the last spark of manhood, 
if it ever existed there, has departed. 
	Such things this people have endured and
are enduring still, and yet are patient and fore-
bearing, and the authors and perpetrators of 
these and kindred acts of oppression are as
free as the air they breathe, so far as hindrance
or retaliation is concerned, and entirely so ex-
cept as they are the veriest slaves of their own 
bad passions and the spirit of wrong-doing
which has fastened its shackles upon them.
	Who is it, having eyes to see, ears to hear, 
and a heart to understand, but knows that if a
"Mormon" or any number of his co-religionists 
were to intrude into any other community on 
earth and attempt the high-handed, unwarrant-
able procedure that is witnessed here in Utah
from day to day, and of which they are the
patient victims, it would raise such a clamor
and indignant uproar as the thunders of hea-
ven could scarcely silence? Simply change
the location and the contrast between the
pictures is sublime. 
	Let a "Mormon" school teacher go into a
"Christian" city and endeavor by gilded baits
of free education or other inducements to woo
the children of the Gentiles from the religion
of their parents, adding to such efforts the
practice so common among the institutors and
promoters of sectarian schools in Utah, of
making periodical visits to his fellow-believers
at a distance, and after slandering the people
in whose midst he is laboring, returns laden
with a rich harvest of dollars reaped from the
field of falsehood he has sown, to "continue
the good work" of reclaiming the Gentile
youth by inveigling them into what their
fathers and mothers consider by and forbidden
paths. Let him do this, then witness the
mild (?) and peacable (?) results that would
follow.


Again, what if a "Mormon" press should
establish itself in the very heart of St. Louis,
Chicago, or any other city of our land and
persistently and wilfully falsify, blackguard
and abuse the most reputable and respected
citizens, without the slightest shadow of ex-
cuse, except the one we so often hear in these
parts, that its object was to Mormonize
"(Americanize") and turn them from the ways
their consciences tell them to walk in, to the
path of a so-called social and political salva-
tion. Suppose that through these continued,
heaped up, and pressed down, assaults on priv-
ate character, the name of a resident of St.
Louis or Chicago should become so feared and
hated that right here in our own city of Salt
Lake, peaceable gentile merchants or "Chris-
tian" missionaries should be shot down by
"Mormon" mobs, fired to the commisson of the
bloody deeds by the outrageous calumnies set
afloat and carried to Utah by said "Mormon"
newspaper, whose existence we are for the
sake of argument supposing.
	Suppose, still, that the machinery of the
courts and the administration of the law were
exclusively in the "Mormon" hands, and
they, though bigotry and hatred of everything
Gentile, should stretch and strain the author-
ity they held to the same extent that is now
being done in the vexatious prosecutions of
which they themselves are made the victims,
for the purpose of convicting, fining and im-
prisoning&nbsp;Gentiles, breaking up their families
and bringing them into a bondage more to be
dreaded than death, which to freemen would
seem sweet by comparison. Would any peo-
ple less patient and longsuffering than the Lat-
ter-day Saints be contented with anything
short of a revolution? And would they not
have cause? Surely as just and sufficient as
that which kindled the fires of Bunker Hill
and Yorktown, and caused earth to reverber-
ate with the echoes of the sublime declaration
that all men are created equal and endowed
by their Creator with the inalienable rights of
life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
	But the Latter-day Saints are more patient
than their patriotic sires of a century ago.
They know, like the immortal Patrick Henry,
that "there is a just God in heaven, who
watches over the destinies of men and nations,"
and they have confided their cause to Him who
has sworn to fight their battles for them.
	This is why they can bear and forbear to
the uttermost, patiently suffering the slights
and insults of those who ride rampant over
law, order and every legal restriction to op-
press them; who would rule that they
might ruin and resolve order back into chaos
that they might revel in the anarchy, confu-
sion and degradation that would follow. Look
at some of those who walk our streets, slaves
of vice and paid tools of tyranny, boasting of
what they have already done and intend fur-
ther to do against the peace and good order
of an innocent, God-fearing and industrious
people who permit them  unmolested and un-
questioned, to fulminate their vile threats and
execute their viler acts within their very bor-
ders. Look at them, and ask yourselves if
the pictures here endeavored to be painted do
not furnish as complete and striking a con-
trast as any that past or present times can boast.
