WILLIAM THOMAS' STATEMENT.

	The deputies called at our place about day-
break, and came to my window and rapped. I
asked who was there, but received no answer.
They then tried to raise the window, when I
called again, and they said they were officers.
I asked them to wait until I was dressed, but
they said no, or they would break in the door.
I told them they had better let that out, and
they went around to mother's door, which
was opened, and father was summoned. The
deputies next went to the bed of Mrs. Elliotts
and subpoenaed her. Gleason said, with a
frightful oath, that he knew there was another
woman in the house, and searched in boxes,
trunks, etc.
	These are a few instances of the course pur-
sued towards defenseless women, who are not
even charged with any offense against the law.
We solemnly protest against these desecrations
of our homes and the invasions of our rights.
We are contented with our lot when left un-
molested, and would enjoy the peace of quiet
homes, the society of our husbands and child-
ren, and the blessings that only belong to God-
fearing families trained to habits of thrift, 
temperance, self-restraint and mutual help, if
it were not for these outrages which are com-
mitted in the name of law, under the false
pretense of protecting home and preserving
the family.
	We learn that measures are in contempla-
tion before your honorable bodies to still fur-
ther harass and distress us. We protest against
the movement to deprive us of the elective
franchise, which we have exercised for over
fifteen years. What have we done that we
should thus be treated as felons? Our only
crime is that we have not voted as our persecu-
tors dictate. We sustain our friends, not our
enemies, at the polls. We declare that in
Utah the ballot is free. It is entirely secret.
No one can know how we vote unless we choose
to reveal it. We are not compelled by any
men, or society, or influence to vote contrary to
our own free convictions. No woman living
with a bigamist, polygamist, or person cohabit-
ing with more than one woman, can now vote
at any election in Utah. Why deprive those
against whom nothing can be charged, even by
implication, of a sacred right which has be-
come their property?
	We ask for justice. We appeal to you not
to tighten the bonds which are now so tense
that we can scarcely endure them. We ask
that the laws may be fairly and impartially
executed. We see good and noble men dragged
to jail to linger among felons, while debauched
and polluted men, some of them Federal offi-
cers who have been detected in the vilest kind
of depravity, protected by the same court and
officers that turn all their energies and engines
of power toward the ruin of our homes and
the destruction of our dearest associations.
We see pure women forced to disclose their
conjugal relations or go to prison, while the
wretched creatures who pander to men's basest
passions are left free to ply their horrible
trade, and may vote at the polls, while legal
wives of men with plural families are dis-
franchised. We see the law made specially
against our people, so shamefully administered
that every new case brings a new construction
of its meaning, and no home is safe from in-
stant intrusion by ruffians in the name of the

[Column 3]

law. And now we are threatened with entire
deprivation of every right and privilege of
citizenship, to gratify a prejudice that is fed on
ignorance and vitalized by bigotry.
	We respectfully ask for a full investigation
of Utah affairs. For many years our hus-
bands, brothers and sons have appealed for
this in vain. We have been condemned, al-
most unheard. Everything reported to our
detriment is received; our cries to be heard
have been rejected. We plead for suspension
of all measures calculated to deprive us of our
political rights and privileges, and to harass,
annoy and bring our people into bondage and
distress, until a commission duly and specially
authorized to make full inquiry into the affairs
of this Territory, have investigated and re-
ported. And while the blessing of Him who
will one day deal out even-handed justice to all,
shall rest upon your honorable bodies, your
memorialists, as in duty bound, will ever pray,
etc.
		MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL,
		MRS. M. ISABELLA HORNE,
		MRS. ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
		DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
		MRS. H. C. BROWN,
		MRS. MARY PITCHFORTH,
		MISS IDA I. COOK,
		MRS. IDA COOMBS,
		MRS. MARY JOHN,
			Committee.


