		MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT.
	
	Ever since the organization of the Mutual
Improvement societies, much has been said
concerning the development of the faculties
God has given us. One may say, “All that is
necessary to be said has been said.” This may
be true, but “it is a wise man who doeth what
he is told for the first time of telling.” Al-
lowing the supposition that we are not all “wise
men,” I will endeavor to point out a few ways
whereby we might improve.
	In the first place it is necessary to under-
stand why we are here upon the earth, what is
our relation to our fellow-beings, and what our
destination after this mortal career is ended.
After these facts have been fully established,
it is time to begin the improvement of our
temporal and spiritual attributes.
	Improvement may be effected in many ways.
One good way is by observation. If we have
good men and women placed over us for our
guidance, we cannot help admiring their good-
ness and intellectual perfections. If we could
fully understand the depth of the impressions
left upon the minds of the young, I think
we would be more exemplary in our habits
and manners than we sometimes are.
Not wishing to be termed acritic, but
speaking only from past experience, I
can truthfully say that impressions were
made upon my mind that have been effaced
when the true character of the individual, con-
sisting only of superficial perfections, was
brought to light.
	Now we all know that the weakness of the
flesh and the vanities of the human mind, when
brought to bear upon spiritual things and sub-
jects of high moral culture, will inevitably tend
towards the grosser qualities of our nature,
unless propitiated by truly practical as well as
theoretical influences. Considering the advan-
tage of exemplary lives, would it not be well
for all who are, or ever expect to be placed in
positions of usefulness, to “practice first what
they preach,” that they might be more success-
ful in the fulfilment of their callings?
	Notwithstanding all this, however, if the
members have no desire to improve, and have
but little, if any, faith in their holy religion,
the precepts of the most zealous, most exem-
plary and wisest of teachers will amount to
but little.  I fully believe that the desires of
the majority are good, and resolves are made
every time meeting is attended to improve at
once, but when the labor and diligence neces-
sary for this work is brought into requisition,
courage fails, and the would-be reformer falls
back into the same old condition, until a new
revival of feeling is experienced. Now it is
all very well to have this feeling, but, if we
wish to improve, we will have to come right
down to hard study in real earnestness, and,
though the improvement may not be seen at
first, there is a gradual development of the
faculties that will, in time, shine forth in bril-
liancy and power, bringing credit and renown
wherever our lot in life may be cast. In
order to gain this desired end let us live so
that the Holy Spirit may always be with us,
for P. P. Pratt says, “The Holy Spirit quickens
all the intellectual faculties, increases, en-
larges, expands and purifies all the natural
passions and affections, and adapts them, by
the gift of wisdom, to their lawful use. It in-

[Column 2]
spires, develops, cultivates and matures all the
fine toned sympathies, joys, tastes, kindred
feelings and affections of our nature. It in-
spires virtue, goodness, tenderness, gentleness
and charity. It develops beauty of person,
form and features. It strengthens, invigorates
and gives tone to the nerves. In short, it is,
as it were, marrow to the bone, joy to the
heart, light to the eyes, music to the ear, and
life to the whole being.”
	[The foregoing essay was written and read
by Mrs. Hattie Jensen at the late Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference in Brigham City.—ED.]


