	DEARH OF MRS. MARINDA A. HYDE.

	"Would it be worth the having or giving, 
		The boon of endless breath? 
	Ah! for the weariness that comes of living--
		There is no cure but death. 

	Ours were indeed a fate deserving pity, 
		Were that sweet rest denied;
	And few, methinks, would care to find the city, 
		Where never any die."

	Sister Hyde was elected President of the Relief 
Society of the Seventeenth Ward Feb. 6th, 1869, 
eighteen years ago, which position she has honor-
ably and creditably filled until her death, March
24th, 1886.  She is the third of the first five offi-
cers chosen at that time who have closed their
record for this life, and gone to receive their re-
ward in a nobler and higher world. 
	Hers has been a very eventful life.  Suffering
and coming in the early days of the Church, and
being placed in many trying positions, gave her a
knowledge and experience above many. 
	She was a noble example of the Christian graces. 
When her family or friends were in trouble, she
uttered the words of comfort, of patience and
cheer.  She stood by my side while the dear life 
slipped away whose loss brought me the deepest
sorrow and acutest pain I have ever known.
While she held me in her arms, she soothed the
wild surging waters of grief, telling me that God
the Father had permitted this, that He never made
a mistake, did all things well, and, above all, loved

[column 2]
those on whom He laid His chastening hand. 
Her child-like faith, coupled with a sublime love
of God, made her a friend always to be loved, and
never to be forgotten. 
	Among our labors with the poor, when we have
been tried, she would say, "Well, God made
them, and we must make the best of them."  Thus
breathing into the Society, not only a charity in
works, but a charity for the feelings of all God's
creatures.  With us who have labored with her
so long, I trust that her example will never be
forgotten, and that the love, charity and mercy
she taught us will remain with us through life. 
According to our best ability, we have aided and
succored the poor.  Quoting the words of Jesus, 
she would say, "Remember the poor, for them we
have always," and "Even as ye do it unto the
least of these, ye do it unto me."
	To say that we shall miss her, will express but
very weakly the deep feelings of regret her death
has caused.  Yet for her sake we should be glad. 
To think that now she is not feeble, nor in pain, 
but her gentle, cheerful spirit free to enjoy the
beauties of eternal worlds, is with her loved ones
gone before, mingling with the Church of the
First Born, where she will watch and wait for her
loved ones left behind, and welcome them one by
one as they shall reach her. 
	May the blessings of God rest upon her sons
and her daughters, her relatives and friends, and
may His peace, which passeth all understanding, 
be and abide with her youngest daughter, Zina, 
who has been her companion for so many years. 
May that sweet submission to the providences of
God fill their hearts as it did hers, and may their
prayers reach unto Him who has said He would
heed the orphan's cry.  She was the mother of
ten children, six of whom, two sons and four
daughters, are left to mourn her loss.  She leaves
twenty-six grandchildren and nine great-grand
children. 
	Sister Hyde expressed her gratitude that she
had lived to see the Society Hall built, paid for
and dedicated.  About one hundred members of
the organization followed her remains, after the
mourners, from her home to the meeting house, 
where many sorrowing friends were assembled.  
Addresses were made by Apostle F. D. Richards
and J. H. Smith, who bore affecting testimonies
to her worth, integrity and faithfulness;  also by
Bishop O. F. Whitney, who said she had taken 
her recommend with her to the Church of the
First Born, and to her would be said, "Enter, thou
hast stood firm, where many have trembled; thou
hast been faithful, where many have fallen; enter
into and enjoy the presence of thy Lord!"
	Bishop Tingey bore testimony to her labors
among the poor and distressed of the ward, of
her kind and generous heart, and prayed that her
family, and the Society who had labored with her, 
would follow her noble example. 
	After the benediction had been pronounced, we
all took an affectionate adieu of Sister Hyde, 
wishing her joy, rest and peace, and congratulat-
ing her that her trials were over.  While the
friends were viewing the remains, the choir and
Society sang, "Weep, weep not for me Zion,"
which has been a funeral hymn to us, as each one
of our number have passed away. 
	A large cortege followed her remains to the
cemetery, where, after the dedicatory prayer by
Bishop Whitney, they were consigned, to await
the coming of the Son of Righteousness. 
						LYDIA D. ALDER, 
	Salt Lake City, March 27th, 1886.


