CORRESPONDENCE.
		Hotel Brunswick, Kansas,Mo., 
						March, 15th, 1886. 
Mrs. M. H. Whitney: 
	My Dear Sister Helen:—I have been to Nauvoo,
have seen your old home, in fact have gone over
it, even to the observatory on the top. The Ger-
man people who live in it, have kept it in good
repair, and are rather proud of the fame of its
former possessor, I think. The eldest son, mother
and daughter have died within a short time, and
the eldest one left at home to take charge is very
sorrowful. They have remodled the east wing
very much, and in fact consider it entirely new.
The barns and out-houses are all well kept.
Brigham’s house, too, is about as well preserved,
and it also has had one wing, the west one, altered.
I had very peculiar feelings in going over these
few and other remaining places of the former
greatness and prosperity of Nauvoo. As I walked
those streets, my heart cried out within me, as it
were, for the poor, oppressed and down-trodden,
driven from their homes and compelled to leave
at all hazards rightful inheritances, and indeed
all the comforts of life, plunging into the wilder-
ness unknown, and unexplored, without the very
necessities for support. What cared the mob?
and what effort was ever made to right these
wrongs? None whatever.
	There are people living in Nauvoo to-day, plen-
ty of them, that can testify to these things, have


[Column 1]
told me how they themselves were driven across
the river without food and shelter, and dare not
return until the struggle was past. Now they be-
long, most of them, to the reorganized Church,do
not believe in Brigham Young, and will not ex-
cept any testimony to show that Joseph Smith
ever received a revelation upon and taught the
principle of plural marriage. To one woman,
who related the circumstances of the skirmish
there when the Esquire took part in it, and became
convinced of the truth of the Gospsl, who told
me how she had suffered, and it was indeed pitiful,
I said, “And after enduring all that, are you not
still a Latter-day Saint?” She said, “Yes indeed
I am, but not a Brighamite. I belong to the
original Church. I know Emma was a good
woman, and true, and she persisted in denying
that Joseph ever had more wives or taught any
such doctrine. On her deathbed she declared it
to be false, that he ever had entered into or sus-
tained any such practise." I interrupted her with
this question, “Madame, you say you knew Eliza
R. Snow. If she were sitting here where I am
sitting, and declared solemly to you that Joseph
Smith did teach this doctrine to her, and that she
was actually his wife, would you believe her?"
"No," she replied, "I would not." “Then,” I
replied, "there is no use to try to convince you of
the truth in the matter. Several women have
testified before a Justice of the Peace that they
were his wives, strictly speaking, and you de-
nounce them all as impostors?” “I do!” she said.
Then she went on to tell me about Maria
Lawrence's marriage to Babbitt, and that she had
two children to him, and that she had waited upon
her when these children were born, and she had
talked with her a very great deal, and she was
sure if Maria Lawrence had been Joseph’s wife,
as afterwards represented, she would have told it
to her, Brigham married Maria Lawrence to Al-
mond Babbitt, she said,but Joseph did not practise
these things. She told me several other similar
things, evidently she had been trusted with some
things, and allowed to put her own construction
upon others. I think there are a set of cranks in
and around Nauvoo, if there ever were anywhere
in the world. They have had two or three money
schemes, but they all failed, and seem to leave
them poor. Some of the folks wish the Mormons
had stayed, and think that Nauvoo would have
been a great city by this time; others think the
place was cursed because the Mormons were
shamefully abused, and so on.
	The Icarians have left there, and the larger pro-
portion now are Germans. A great number of
Roman Catholics, who have a nice Church, rather
unpretentious, though the steple is very high,
Catholic Convent for girls, and a department for
boys. There is a small Methodist Church and a
Lutheran, but that is not open now. There is a
sort of mixture there, such as I have never seen
before; old Mormons who have  lost their faith,
but stand up for the people, another class who
have become Josephites, and then a dozen other
kinds; then Germans, French and Jews, a few of
the last, but society such as you usually find in a
town of 1,500 people appears unknown.
	One incident I want to relate to you now, lest I
should forget it when I reach home. I learned,
while in Nouvoo, that Major Bideman’s son had
recently married, supposing it to be a son of a
former wife, I was utterly astonished when, on
my call at the mansion, I was introduced to the
young bridegroom, to see he was so boyish look-
ing; however, I did not betray my surprise, but
after leaving inquired what it meant, as I had been
told this young man's mother had been married to
Major Bideman about a year after Emma's death,
and, of course, this boy must have been born dur-
ing Emma’s lifetime, so I said, “He is the Major’s
stepson or adopted son," quite innocently. "No,"
said the young man, “he is his own son, and he
married the woman after Emma’s death to right

[Column 2]
the wrong he had done her in Emma's life." "O,"
I said. “Yes," said he, “Emma sent for her to
come and wait upon her when she was lying sick,
and told the old Major to marry the woman after
she was dead. “It was the best he could do,”
said the young man. O, thought I, if Emma has
begun righting wrongs, she has plenty of work
on hand. Who can tell? Her life was no doubt
unpleasant enough, with that curious specimen of
humanity—Major Bideman. He was very cordial
with me, and he seemed to take a great deal of
pride in boasting of fighting for the Mormons, and
over and over repeated, "Yes, I did it then, and
I'd do it again." I saw Dr. Weld—he told the
same sort of thing in substance, though in a quiet
and dignified way; also Morrell, the lawyer, who
married Lavinia Hibbard; all these men, you
know, were Gentiles, but Mormon sympathizers,
sneeringly called by mobocrats, “Jack Mormons.”
If one wanted to hear how the MOBS treated the
Mormons, then let them go to Nauvoo and hear
these old settlers talk; it's enough to make one's
blood run cold.
	I have not told you much, after all, but the let-
ter is surely long enough, and I have to go out on
an errand now, but I do assure you I shall be very
glad to get home and see you once more.
	Your father's house in Kirtland has been des-
troyed, so Mary Bond told me. Such lots of
places are gone, that were good when we left
Nauvoo, even. Ruin and desolation have been
the effects after the drivings and persecutions,and
yet men will not be warned. While riding down
the river on the train from Montrose, I heard a
gentleman ask another what place that was across
the river. "That's Nauvoo," said the man, as if
with a sort of pride. “What, where those abomin-
able Mormons lived?" said the questioner. "Well,”
said the man, “everybody will not agree with you
that they are an abomination," and then went on
telling him what a charming place it was said to
be when the Mormons lived there, but the man
was furrious, and I guessed then with what horror
he would have looked upon me had he known I
was a “Mormon." So goes the world.
	Love to all the family—Lillie, Gennie, Charlie
and Flod, and Mary and her children.
				Lovingly,
