Sixty Years Ago
Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1888

For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN oF ALL NarTIons

We have perused the prospectus of the Salt Lake Sanitarian, a monthly journal of medicine and surgery, about to be issued in this city. It will be devoted to the laws of life and health, diseases and their treatment. It will be edited by the Doctors Shipp, who are well known to the medical profession here, and have had quite an extensive experience in the treatment of cases in this Territory. These ladies are graduates of the Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia, and have made good use of their opportunities since they graduated, among the people here. That such a journal will be a desirable acquisition to the home literature of the Territory no one can deny. We wish these sisters every success in their new undertaking, and have no fears as to their capability to make the paper interesting and helpful to the people.

Editorial
The first conference of the Relief Society held in Uintah Stake convened in the Ashley meeting house, April 1, 1888, with Sarah Pope presiding. Reports from the different branches were read. Sister A. K. Bartlett said that she felt this was a feast of rejoicing. Gave the sisters some good instructions concerning their daughters marrying; she said the daughters of Zion should go to the house of the Lord when they were married. Sister McAlling expressed her desire to do good, said she belonged to the first Relief Society that was organized in the Church. Counselor Hatch said she felt well in meeting with the sisters and gave them some good counsel. President Sarah Pope addressed the congregation on the duties of wives and mothers. She said: "It is not right to be proud and haughty, but we should be humble and prayerful and learn to govern ourselves, before we are fit to govern others."

Ada Longhurst, Secretary

There is a flower which oft unheeded grows,
And blooms unnoticed in some shady spot;
Modestly it hides, nor gaudy petal shows,
But whispers coyly to the breeze, "Forget me not."

The bride should wear it when she leaves her home,
The dead should have it on their coffin laid;
Our friends most prize it when afar they roam.

M. A. Greenhalgh

Too many of our sex think it necessary to cultivate only the external part of our organizations. That is why they seem to think if they adorn themselves with all the frills and furbelows of fashion, that they are very attractive, no matter how uncouth their manners. They do this to the total neglect of the mental and physical and, I am sorry to say, sometimes the moral parts of their beings also. The body is only a casket for the spirit to dwell in; the spirit is the immortal, imperishable portion which we have inherited from our Heavenly Father. Who ever heard of a person's name being known to posterity because of the beauty of her dress? All can study fashion, but those who spend most of their time in that may perish with their clothing, and are soon forgotten. Then while we have respect enough for ourselves, our associates and our God to be neat and clean in our appearance and pleasant in our intercourse, let us not spend too much time in adorning ourselves to the neglect of cultivating our minds and manners.

Aunt Bird