Woman's Sphere
Ramona W. Cannon

HE two scholars who most influenced the high moral pattern of Chinese thought were Confucius and Mencius (around 4oo B. C.). Both were reared by widowed mothers, to whom Chinese historians give much credit for the accomplishments of their sons. Mencius' mother early noted his talent for learning and imitating. He would re-enact the solemn scenes of burial, occurring in the near-by cemetery. When she moved near a market place, he pantomimed every phase of buying and selling. Finally, she moved near a college and found that her plan worked.

KATHERINE ROMNEY STEWART (Mrs. Charles B. Stewart) aged seventy-two years, died January 19, 1948, in Los Angeles. For fifteen years she had the privilege unique among our women of practicing on the Tabernacle organ. As assistant organist to Joseph J. Daynes, she was always prepared to accompany the Tabernacle Choir. In 1903, attending the World's Fair at Chicago with the choir, she played for three days before the Women's Congress as accompanist for the vocal solos of her sister Mary (Mrs. Charles Ross), and individually as organ soloist. In Los Angeles, as branch president, then in 1923 as first stake president, she pioneered Relief Society work for twelve years. Her favorite impression of the Relief Society spirit was to gather up old folks and shutins for thoughtfully planned entertainments, or doing kind things in their homes. She was very devoted to her husband and eight children.

GAIN an American woman has won a Nobel prize. Dr. Gerti Theresa Cori shared with her husband, Dr. Ferdinand Cori, the 1947 prize for medicine. Both are faculty members at Washington University, St. Louis.

ASSOCIATED Press editors selected Princess Elizabeth as Woman of the Year; as internationally most outstanding woman in her field: beauty, Barbara Jo Walker; science, Gerti Cori; drama, June Lockhart; radio, Dorothy Shay; public service, Eleanor Roosevelt; business, Dorothy Shaver (President, Lord and Taylor department store); education, Sarah Blanding (President, Vassar College); literature, Rebecca West (British author); movies, Ingrid Bergman; sports, Babe Didrickson Zaharias.

ELDORA J. MAUGHAN, of Preston, Idaho, has been appointed to the National Congress of Parents and Teachers. One of the eight national vice-presidents, she is responsible for activities in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming. She is the mother of seven active Latter-day Saints.