Planning Food Buying for Health and Economy
Bernice Stookey, Linford Iron County, Utah, Home Agent

[This article is published with the suggestion that mothers of missionaries will call it to the attention of their sons and daughters in the mission field. Ed.]

Diets first for health, and then make adjustments to meet the family income. To be thrifty and wise in selection one must first know food values, not only of fresh foods, but of commercially canned and prepared foods. Radio programs, magazines, and newspapers are saturated with attractive advertisements, some of which are fraudulent half-truths which may deceive even the most intelligent. By heeding these deceptive appeals the homemaker may not only undermine health, but may greatly increase the cost of living.

Many young mothers buy practically all fruits and vegetables already canned, especially for young children, although fresh fruits and vegetables may be wasting in their orchards and gardens, which could be cooked fresh, frozen, stored, or canned at home at a great saving. The needs and income of each particular family should determine the plan for health. The resources of a family living on a farm where fruits, vegetables, milk, eggs, poultry, and meats can be produced will cut living costs greatly. However, the extra time needed to produce and prepare home-raised food will require good planning for the work of the homemaker.

Bargain buying of food in bulk if storage space is available, buying perishable fruits and vegetables at the close of the day, or taking advantage of "specials" will also cut costs. Be cautious of specials on meats, fish, and poultry, especially ground meats. These foods deteriorate rapidly. The present high prices of these products may tempt dishonest sellers to destroy the odor of spoilage by adding harmful preservatives which also preserve the natural color. Spices and herbs, too, may be added to conceal the taste and odor of spoiled meat.

Commercially prepared foods are great time savers, and are used a great deal by most homemakers. It should be kept in mind, however, that no frozen, canned, or highly processed food is as healthful as fresh food, but the careful planner will always include enough fresh foods to keep a balanced diet.

Climate, season, geographical location, and transportation will determine the "best buys" in all foods, especially fresh foods. Homemakers will make a better selection and save time and money by planning food for several days at a time.

First check supplies on HAND, then make out a shopping list. The picture chart of the "Basic Seven" pattern for nutrition published in the April Magazine will help inexperienced cooks plan menus for health and economy.

Available supplies, Price, and necessary time for preparation will determine choice of ready prepared and fresh foods purchased. Try making 4 simplified list based on the following classification:

1. Yellow and green vegetables
2. Oranges, citrus fruits, tomatoes, taw greens
3. Potatoes, and other fruits or tables
4. Milk and cheese
5. Meat, fish or poultry, 88% beans, or dried peas
6. Bread and whole-grain cereals.
7. Fats (animal and vegetable) dried

FOLLOWING is a three-day menu and cost list for two missionaries.

The demonstration was given to a group of 274 missionaries leaving the mission home for their fields of labor in September. The menu meets all the requirements for health as advocated by the "Basic Seven." A double boiler was used in cooking since missionaries usually have access to only a hot plate or single burner, or in foreign countries, a small space on the family cook stove. To conserve time and heat, cereals were soaked overnight and cooked in top of a double boiler. To save time in preparing the evening meal, potatoes were cooked in their "jackets" in the lower part of the double boiler while the cereal was cooking. Eggs were broken in a tea cup and set down in the cereal, or cheese could be melted in a tea Cup, making a "three-story cooker." Rice pudding was cooked in the top part of cooker while vegetable soup was cooking in the lower part. The meals were planned to be quickly prepared. Canned, frozen, dried, and fresh foods were all used, and fresh, evaporated, and dried milk were used to demonstrate each type, each missionary having the equivalent of one quart of fresh milk each day. 

The actual cost of the eighteen meals for three days was $5.10, including tax.

THREE-DAY MENU FOR TWO MISSIONARIES OR PERSONS OF SIMILAR ACTIVITY (Actual cost: 83c per day per person at September 12, 1947 prices).

Friday:
One large grapefruit
Cooked cereal
Soft-cooked eggs
Bread
Butter
Milk

Peanut Butter sandwiches
Sliced tomatoes
Raw pear
Milk

Warmed up potatoes with canned sausage
Chopped cabbage (boiled 4 minutes)
Bread
Butter
Sliced peaches and top milk
Milk

Saturday:
Stewed prunes
Cooked cereal
Soft-cooked eggs
Bread
Butter

1 (Continued on page 347)