[Vol12 | April 1925 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide_Lessons | Title: Guide Lessons for June]

GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 209 The Delivery of the Urim and Thummim to Abraham. Whether the sacred instrument of seership and revelation was obtained by Abraham before he filled the first part of his mission by leaving the land of Ur, or whether he made a trip back to this center of civilization and obtained from the Lord the Urim and Thummim, is not certain; but at all events he came into possession of it directly from the Lord. By means of the Urim and Thummim God gave Abraham a vision of the universe physical and spiritual. (See Abraham 3:4, 23.) Abraham Obtains the Priesthood. Abraham left the famine-smitten land of Haran and made his way to the land of Palestine where he received the Priesthood from the high priest Melchizedek after a victorious campaign of rescue. (See Genesis 14:8-18.) "Which Abraham received the Priesthood from Melchizedek who received it through the lineage from the fathers." (Doc. And Cov. 84:14.) This event was accompanied by gladsomeness and grattitude on the part of the ideal patriarch, Abraham was a born heir to the Priesthood. His ancestors had conferred the right to the Priesthood upon him as an inheritance. But he sought for an official conferring of this glorious authority. (Abraham 3, 4.) From Melchizedek he obtained what he had so long sought?the appointment as an agent of the Lord?and true to his high-grade nature he decided that in him the Lord should have an honest agent. "He gave him tithes of all." Genesis 14:20.) The Offering of Isaac. Abraham had already offered on the altar of obedience the home-presence of one of his sons?he had sent Ishmael away to be reared among the uncircumsized, and the patriarch's chief comfort was a promise from God that he would look after the boy and see to it that his life should be a part of the fulfilment of one of the great promises made to Abraham. (See Genesis 17:20.) And now when the heir of promise, Isaac, who was about fifteen years younger than Ishmael, when this boy, the only child of Sarah, was budding into manhood, God puts Abraham to a test through which he came to be known as one who loved the Lord with all his might, mind and strength, "a friend of God." The test was one to which no childless man could be put. 
 Abraham's fatherhood was to be made a special means of lifting him towards Godhood. The offering of Isaac was a double sacrifice: it included, in the mind of Abraham, the giving up of Isaac and the setting aside of an ethical ideal. Abraham was heart and soul opposed to the doctrine and practice of sacrificing human beings. He not only protested against it among his own people but he condemned it in Egypt to the extent of drawing down upon him the violence of the idolatrous rulers in that country. (See Abraham 1:5, 6, 7, 13.) Abraham, in obedience to his understanding of God's command, a superior loyalty to God, prepared to make an offering of his son which included the shedding of his blood. But when Isaac questioned concerning a lamb, he answered, "My son, God will provide. Himself a lamb for the burnt offering." The patriarch in this was a prophet, not a seer. Isaac was placed upon the altar; the knife was raised; and there the offering of Isaac ended. The call of the angel that interrupted the procedure was not a countermand of the word of God, but a revelation of what offering a son by a father meant. The ram in the thicket was an objective vindication of Abraham's stand against "human sacrifice." He was tested and found true to God, as he understood him, and the Lord intervened as he always will to prevent mistakes being made by those who are loyal to him. Abraham's son was saved and his ethical ideal preserved. B. Some OUTSTANDING FEATURES OF ABRAHAM'S LIFE AND CHARACTER, 1. He Merited the Beatitudes Pronounced in the Sermon on tlie Mount. A. He was poor in spirit and felt the constant need of God's help. There was no self-sufficiency about Abraham.: b. He was one of "those who mourn." He must have grieved over the wickedness of the world and the apostasy of his relatives. The banishment of a part of his family was a source of sorrow to him. (See Genesis 21:11.) He mourned the death of his wife. (See Genesis 23:2.) c. He was of "the meek," for what ever else meekness stands for it stands for teachableness, and Abraham stands in the front ranks of knowledge seekers. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 211 d. To know that Abraham belongs to the class '"'who do hunger and thirst after righteousness" one need but contemplate his own words recorded in Abraham 1:2: "Desiring to be a greater follower of righteousness." e. That he merits the blessing promised to those "who are merciful" is evident from his pleadings with the Lord to spare a city from destruction. (See Gen. 18:20, 38.) f. The selection of Abraham to be the lineal father of a race through which the mother of the "Only Begotten" should come is evidence of Abraham's being intrinsically one of the "pure in heart." The fact that Abraham had access to the presence of the Lord is ample proof of his being entitled to the sixth beatitude. G. "Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God." The peace-making quality of Abraham is brought to the front in his generous policy with Lot and in his refusal to accept the spoils of war. (See Genesis 13:7-12; 14:14, 24.) But the conclusive evidence that Abraham was entitled to the seventh beatitude is found in the fact that God said to him 'My son, my son." (See Abraham 3: 12.) h. In proof that Abraham merited "They which are persecuted for righteousness sake," we have the treatment he received at the hands of the idolators of his day and then the fact that he received the reward promised. Jesus in his parable of the rich man and Lazarus indicates that Abraham was among those of whom it can be said, "of these is the kingdom of heaven' and the Lord declares directly that Abraham is exalted in the kingdom of heaven. (See Doc. And Cov. 132:29.) Questions and Problems: 1. To Don About what time in the world's history did Abraham live? Describe the conditions that made the calling of Abraham necessary. What were the special desires and efforts of Abraham that gave him a preparedness for his call? What were the three features of the call of Abraham? Tell how Abraham obtained the Urim and Thummim. How is verse twenty-six of chapter three in the Book of 
 Abraham prominently related to the Latter-day Saint literature? 7. How did Abraham give evidence that his agency for God should be accompanied by absolute honesty with the Lord? 8. Discuss the difference between the offering of Isaac and the sacrificing of him. 9. What lesson was taught to the ages by the voice of the angel and the finding of the ram in the thicket? 10. Give proof that Abraham was entitled to the blessings pronounced in the Sermon on the Mount. 11. Discuss Hagar as the grand-mother of twelve princes. (Gen. 17:20.) - - LESSON II (Second Week in June) Work and Business TEACHERS TOPIC FOR JUNE Cooperation of parents and teachers in simplicity of graduation exercises. 1. Cooperation is essential to simplicity in graduation exercises. 2. Finishing the eighth grade is simply passing from the grades into the junior high and not a graduation. 3. Elaborate exercises in the grades sometimes detracts from the desire to go on to high school and college. 4. Gifts of jewelry and money at this time are inappropriate. 5. Mothers and children have been made ill through the preparations for such elaborate and wholly uncalled for exercises. LESSON III (Third Week in June) Literature HENRY DAVID THOREAU At the Relief Society conference, held during the year 1923, the members of the organization were told that America had assumed the leadership of the world since the World War; and for that reason everything American would attract more attention than ever before; and, as a consequence, American literature, treated somewhat scornfully in the past by people across the GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 213 Atlantic, would come in for its share of attention. It is because we have confirmation of this fact, and because the Spring and Summer months are coming, when writers who portray nature are especially interesting, that we have selected Henry David Thoreau for this lesson. A French paper of note is publishing a column each day on HENRY DAVID THOREAU American affairs and American literature, and the first writer they have selected is Henry David Thoreau; and, since the French people are thinking about him and reading him we think it only right that the members of our organization should become acquainted with him also. We once heard a man trom India say that the people in India knew more about John Milton than the Americans knew, we should not like the Frenchman to say that French people know more about Henry David Thoreau than the American knows. An American critic, Mr. Roy Bennett Page, tells us that Thoreau has been growing in popularity of late years, so much so that in 1906 his complete journal of over fourteen volumes was published, just as he left it. Thoreau was born in Concord, July 12, 1817. A number of our writers made Concord their home but few were born there. He was of French and Scottish ancestry. This may account, in a 
 measure, for the French turning their attention to him first of all. His people were poor, his father being a pencil maker, nevertheless they contrived in some way to have him go through school, and with some little help from the University he was graduated from Harvard in 1837. He is the writer who above all others believed in keeping a journal. Among his college themes was one that recommended the keeping of a journal, the form in which all his writings appear from the year of his graduation to his death, his journal making in all thirty manuscript volumes. In college he appears to have distinguished himself in Greek and English composition. He taught school for a while, worked at his father's trade of pencil maker, until he was satisfied that he could make a better pencil than his father, then gave it up stating that he had lost interest in further effort in that di rection. He then began what Ralph Waldo Emerson called those, '"endless walks and miscellaneous studies." One of these journeys took him the entire length of Cape Cod; another, into Maine; still another, into Canada. The report of these trips although not published until after his death, form the foundation of his literary fame. At that time he was an important factor in Concord life. He lectured before the Athenaeum, and was a skillful surveyor. Gardner and carpenter. However, in 1845, he borrowed an ax from Alcott, and a piece of land on Walden Pond, from Emerson, and built himself a hut. He lived a very frugal life. The record of this life is found in his book Walden. He tells us he went into the woods to see if he could not learn what the essentials of life really are. Somehow in his contact with nature he concluded that the institution of slavery was morally wrong. Going into the village one afternoon he was arrested and jailed "because he did not pay a tax to, or recognize the authority of, the state which buys and sells men, women and children like cattle at the door of its senate house." These are practically his own words. It is said that Emerson went to visit him while he was in prison and asked, "Henry, what are you doing here?" He was met with the yankee reply, "Ralph Waldo, why are you not here?" Thoreau declared he would not pay taxes to a nation that supported such an abominable institution as slavery. But the value of Walden, thought by many to be his chief work, lies not in the fact that its author lived the simple life at Walden Pond or that he protested against the institution of slavery, but in the fact that he interpreted nature, by telling us how "spring GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 215 came in," and of the changing color of Walden Pond. He has taught us the granduer of the great outdoor life about us and is the first of that school of writers of which John Burroughs is a notable example. He died on May 6, 1862. He had lived near to nature and had learned enough to be unafraid of death. Undoubtedly the unprotected life he lived brought on the consumption that resulted in his death. All who knew him were strongly attracted to him, as a beautiful character, and nothing in his life better justified their devotion than some sentiments expressed in his last weeks, when he knew death was at hand." "When I was a very little boy," he said to one, "I learned that I must die, and I set that down, so, of course, I am not disappointed now." 'To Bronson Alcott he said: "I shall leave the world without a regret, though to few men has 'the mere living' been more delightful." No doubt Thoreau withdrew himself from society because he thought society was diseased. In his Natural History of Massachusetts he writes, "There is no scent in it so wholesome as that of the pines, nor any fragrance so penetrating and restorative as the life everlasting in high pastures." Again in an essay on "Walking" he said, "Hope in the future for me, is not in towns and cities but in the impervious and quaking swamps." The titles of his works published after his death compiled from his journals are: Excursions, 1863; Maine Woods, 1864; Cape Cod, 1865; A Vankee in Canada, 1866; Spring, 1881; Summer, 1884; Winter, 1887; Autumn, 1892; Notes on New England and Birds, 1910. His style was incoherent, he jumped from one to another without the least warning; yet all this admitted, it does not in the least change the fact that he set forth what he observed in the habits and actions of the "woodpecker, chicadee, song sparrow, bluebird, goldfish, wild duck and squirrel, Ayla, and muskrat, and with rare affection studied all God's creatures." Emerson says, "he sat immovable until 'the bird, the reptile, the fish which had retired from him should come back and resume its habits." He seemed by nature fitted for his work, for again Emerson remarks, "his power of observation seemed to indicate additional senses; he saw as with a microscope, heard as with a trumpet, and his memory was a photographic register of all he saw and heard." THE COMING OF THE BIRDS (From Early Spring in Massachusetts) March 18, 1858. How much more habitable a few birds make the fields! At the end of the winter, when the fields are bare, and there is 
 nothing to relieve the monotony of withered vegetation, our life seems reduced to its lowest terms. But let the bluebird come and warble over them, and what a change! The note of the first bluebird in the air answers to the purling rill of melting snow beneath. It is evidently soft and soothing, and, as surely as the thermometer, indicates a higher temperature. It is the accent of the south wind, in vernacular. It is modulated by the south wind. The song-sparrow is more sprightly, mingling its notes with the rustling of the brush along the water sides, but it is at the same time more terrene than the bluebird. The first woodpecker comes screaming into the empty house, and throws open doors and windows wide, calling out each of them to let the neighbors know of its return. But heard farther off it is very suggestive of ineffable associations, which cannot be distinctly recalled, of long-drawn summer hours, and thus it also has the effect of music. I was not aware that the capacity to hear the woodpecker had slumbered within me so long. When the blackbird, gets to a conqueree he seems to be dreaming of the sprays that are to be and on which he will perch. The robin does not come singing, but utters a somewhat anxious or inquisitive peep at first. The song-sparrow is immediately most at home of those I have named. Each new year is a surprise to us. We find that we had virtually forgotten the note of each bird, and when we hear it again, it is remem-~ bered like a dream, reminding us of a previous state of existence. How happens it that the association it awakens are always pleasing, never saddening, reminiscence of our sanest hours. The voice of nature is always encouraging. When I get two-thirds up the hill, I look round, and am for the hundredth time surprised by the landscape of the river valley and the hor! Zon with its distant blue-scalloped rim. It is a spring landscape, and as impossible a fortnight ago as the songs of birds. It is deeper and warmer blue than in winter, methinks. The snow is off the mountains, which seem even to have come again like the birds. The undulating river is a bright blue channel between sharp-edged shores of ice retained by the willows. The wind blows strong but warm from west by north (so that I have to hold my paper tight while I write this), making the copses creak and roar, but the sharp tinkle of a song-sparrow is heard through it all. But, ah! The needles of the pine, how they shine, as I look down over the Holden road and westward! Every third tree is lit with the most subdued, but clear, ethereal light, as if it were the most delicate frost-work in a winter morning, reflecting no heat, but only light. And as they rock and wave in the strong wind, even a mile off, the light courses up and, down them as over a field of grain, ie., they are alternately light and dark, like looms above the forest, when the shuttle is thrown between the light woof and the dark web. At sight of this my spirit is like a lit tree. It runs or flashes over their parallel boughs as when you play with the teeth of a comb. Not only osiers, but pine needles, shine brighter I think, in the spring, and arrowheads and railroad rails, etc., ete. Anacreon noticed this spring shining. Is it not from the higher sun and cleansed air and greater animation of nature? There is a warmer red on the leaves of the shrub oak and on the tail of the hawk circling over them. MAIMED NATURE (From Early Spring in Massachusetts) March 23, 1856. I spent a considerable portion of my time observing the habits of the wild animais, my prute neighbors. By their various movements and migrations they fetch the year about to me. Very GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 217 significant are the flight of geese and the migration of suckers, etc. But when I consider that the nobler animals have been exterminated, here, the cougar, panther, lynx, wolverine, wolf, bear, moose, deer, beaver, turkey, etc., etc., I cannot but feel as if I lived in a tamed land as it were, emasculated country. Would not the motions of those larger and wilder animals have been more significant still? Is it not a maimed and imperfect nature that I am conversant with? As if I were to study a tribe of Indians that had lost all its warriors. Do not the forest and the meadow now lack expression? Now that I never see nor think of the moose with a lesser forest on his head in the one, nor of the beaver in the other? When I think what were the various sounds and, notes, the migration and works, and changes of fur and plumage, which ushered in the spring and marked the other seasons of the year, I am reminded that this my life in nature, this particular round of natural phenomena which I call a year, is lamentably incomplete. I listen to a concert in which so many parts are wanting. The whole civilized country is, to some extent, turned into a city, and I am that citizen whom I pity. Many of those animal migrations and other phenomena by which the Indians marked the season are no longer to be observed. I seek acquaintance with nature to know her moods and manners. Primitive nature is the most interesting to me. I take infinite pains to know all the phenomena of the spring, for instance, thinking that I have here the entire poem, and then, to my chagrin, I learn that it is but an imperfect copy that I possess and have read, that my ancestors have torn out many of the first leaves and grandest passages, and mutilatea it in many places. I should not like to think that some demigod had come before me and picked out some of the best of the stars. I wish to know an entire heaven and an entire earth. All the great trees and beasts, fishes and fowl are gone; the streams perchance are somewhat shrunk. Questions and Problems 1. Why is Thoreau called the "Concord Dearest?" 2. Many writers have declared that by living near to nature they have had spiritual and moral lessons suggested to them. What do you think of the idea? Have you personally had any spiritual uplift through contact with nature? 3. Do you think Thoreau was justified in not paying his taxes, and in going to prison rather than paying them? 4. State what you may have observed during the Spring months in the great outdoor world that has appealed to you. 5. What do you favor most, or what makes the greatest appeal to you, in the selections you have read from Thoreau? LESSON IV (Fourth Week in June) Social Service SocrtaAL ASPECTS OF EDUCATION The educational program is, in our democracy, a state affair. An appreciation of the necessity and value of edcuation by the 
 people generally, has led to the development of an extensive and elaborate system of state education. That the state has the power to make school attendance of children compulsory, is a recognized and accepted fact. That taxes should be levied for the support of the school system, is also an unquestioned institution. That educational legislation and appropriations vary, of course, in the different states. Utah's school attendance act is one of the most advanced of the time. The present statute provides that all children between the ages of 8 and 18 shall be in attendance at school unless the child has completed the senior high school. When he reaches 16, if his services are needed by a widow or by an invalid father, or if his health makes school attendance unadvisable, he may be allowed to discontinue regular school and attend part-time school. Until children are 18, or have completed the regular high school, they are not permitted to enter industry, unless satisfactory arrangements are made for them to enter a part-time class. This part-time school work may te taken a certain number of hours each week, or a certain number of weeks each year. The total must be 144 hours per year. In order to maintain the educational standards set by the community, the schools of a metropolis usually have their own special officers or staff members to supervise entrance, nonattendance, truancy, and later, the vocational guidance of children entering industry. Often trained social workers are employed to give the kind of expert attention that is needed to assist dependent, neglected, or problem children, to make the necessary adjustment in school or in industry. In smaller communities, the principals and teachers have the responsibility of handling these social problems which arise in the school. Many of the problems of attendance and conduct that must be met in school are fundamentally social difficulties that have their bases in a faulty home environment. For this reason the school often finds it necessary to ask the aid of some family agency to assist in treating the problem. The social worker who is visiting a family often has an insight into the family difficulties, which is presented to the school, gives the school a better understandng of the situation. A close relationship should exist between school and family visitor, for both are observing the members of the family?their health, habits, abilities, etc??and both are working fundamentally toward the same end. Both aim to contribute to the growth, the development, and the stability of the individuals with whom they work. A child usually enters school soon after his sixth birthday. In a well-adjusted family this is understood and the necessary GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 219 preparations are made as a matter of course and are often eagerly anticipated. The first day at school is something of an event to the child and also to the parents. But if the parents do not understand English, and are unaware of the school regulations, or if the mother is ill and the extra effort of making school clothes is a task she cannot undertake, or if there is actually no money with which to buy the necessary dress or pair of shoes, the first day at school is likely to be delayed. A family who has suffered the hardships of illness, unemployment, inadequate income, etc., frequently find it necessary to postpone the children's entrance in school, and if there is no outside interference or assistance in the interest of the children, non-attendance may continue from month to month and even from year to year. Even after the children have been formally entered in school their regular attendance is not assured. The same family difficulties that kept the children from entering promptly, will tend to make them spasmodic and irregular in their attendance.: It is obvious that merely to "order" children to report at school is unreasonable and often futile. The whole family may need readjustment before regular attendance can be expected. Perhaps employment is needed for the man out of work, or an income for a widow, or a housekeeper for a widower. Perhaps standards of household management and habits of regularity need to be introduced. It may take a long period of time to introduce the new habits and construct a new mode of living. Infinite skill and patience are needed by a person who attempts to reconstruct a family's standard of living. If such a program of social treatment is necessary to raise a family to a higher standard, and incidentally to insure a more regular attendance and a better appreciation of educational opportunities, the task of family rehabilitation belongs to the social worker rather than to the school. Non-attendance at school is not the only difficulty that the teacher or principal and the family visitor can share. The difficult child, the rowdy one, and the one failing in school work, is perhaps a problem because of some maladjustment at home. The lack of the material necessities of life can account for much abnormal behavior. Likewise, if a child is not well, or if he cannot sleep because of the lack of adequate covering, or if he has not had sufficient nourishing food, he is likely to be listless and slow at his school work. If there is unhappiness and friction in the home circle, the children naturally will develop an irritability and a nervousness that will make for undesirable conduct in the school room and on the play ground. A sensitive child may be made to suffer and consequently 
 behave "queerly" because of a lack of understanding at home. The following incident illustrates one child's emotional problem, and the simple treatment that removed the cause of the difficulty. A young girl appeared to be so stupid at school that until an examination by a psychologist was made it was thought that she was not quite normal. The difficulty had its chief cause in the behavior of the family towards the child. The younger brother was obviously the favorite at home because both parents had looked forward to the advent of their first son. The boy was given precedence in everything and nothing but reproach was given the girl. She was continually being compared with her brother to her own disadvantage. She would hear her mother tell visitors of her brother's cleverness and of her own shyness and backwardness. It was not surprising therefore that she should have been quiet and timid in school. Ever since she had been able to remember, her every effort at self-expression had been discourged before it had had a chance to start. Daily she was being told that she was an inferior person, that she was capable of nothing, and that she amounted to nothing. She was now bound up as effectively as if she had been in chains. Because of her family's conduct, she was shut up within herself so com~ pletely she could not adjust to her home or her school life. Only after the parents had been shown the part they were playing in their daughter's unhappiness did the child begin to receive the opportunities she needed. A changed atmosphere at home and special attention in school released her from her fears and her timidness and stimulated her to the use of her abilities. A new development of school service in the larger cities is that of a visiting teacher. The qualifications for this position include both teaching and social work experience. Children who present health or behavior problems or who give other evidences of poor care or misunderstanding, are referred to the visiting teacher for study and treatment. Because of the visiting teacher's ability to observe the child, both in the school and in the home environment, she can give the special care that difficult children require. ? When children reach the age where they are permitted to leave school and enter industry, many new problems arise. It is, of course, important to prolong the educational period as long as possible for those who have aptitudes for academic work. It is often excellent economy to supplement a family's income for a few years in order to give able, ambitious children the advantage of further school work. In some instances, however, it may be advisable to start early to give specialized training for a particular industry. Decisions regarding the continuation of the educational period should be based on the child's ability, his health, his ambitions, and the standards of the family. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JUNE 221 Boys and girls who leave school to go to work as soon as the school law permits, are not likely to be very fortunate in the choice of an occupation unless some guidance is given to them. In consequence of the growing realization of the number of industrial failures, and the economic waste caused by haphazard selection of vocations, both schools and industrial concerns are making attempts to place children in positions for which they are fitted. For instance, factory work, because of its monotony, might be depressing and discouraging to a high-tempered, lively young boy. Because of the deadening routine he is likely to quit his job some day, or perhaps even leave home and seek adventure on the open road or ina new town. If his job had appealed to some ambition he had entertained, or perhaps to his natural youthful desire for romance and adventure, he would doubtless have become a steady workman. His own ambitions and tastes should have been consulted. The factory work might have appealed to another boy who would like the opportunity to do work with his hands, to associate with pleasant people, and to gain the satisfaction and security that come with being part of an established, reliable organization. Vocational guidance undoubtedly should begin while the children are yet in school, giving them opportunity, without economic loss, to discover their aptitudes and abilities. There is some danger, of course, of specializing too early, for the selection of a life occupation requires mature judgment. Vocational guidance should not be discontinued when the child accepts his first position in industry. Supervision, given either by industrial concerns or by the continuation schools, should be extended until a satisfactory transfer has been made from school to industrial life. Reference: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 69-79. Questions and Problems 1. What are the school attendance regulations of your state? 2. Why are school problems with children often family problems? 3. How can parents and social workers cooperate with schools? 4. How can parents assist in choosing vocations for their children? 5. Why is it important to permit the child to have a voice in the selection of his vocation? 7 Half Hundred College ursess Zach an Loent Conducted by more than a score of America's leading educators, X each the outstanding authority in his line. Graduate or under- \ graduate credit, in courses covering all the major branches of learning. A summer session for all classes; mothers, nurses, doctors, teachers, farmers and professional and business people. A summer school right at your door, that offers more advantages in study and recreation than any other in the world! Several of these celebrities will remain for the full quarter. Special Faculty June 15 to July 25 Allee, Zoology, University of ChiCornell; Mrs. Palmer, Geology, cago; Binzell, child psychology, Cornell; McCollum, Nutrition, Columbia; Boyle, Agr. Economics, Johns Hopkins; Roseneau, Public Cornell; Carver, Economics, HarHealth, Harvard; Sedgewick, Engvard (quarter); Cowles, Botany, lish, U. Of British Columbia; U. Of Chicago; Dykema, Music, Shearer, Primary Methods, Long Columbia (one week); Ellwood, Beach, Calif.; Turner, History, Sociology, U. Of Missouri (quarHarvard; Walker, Efficiency Methter); Franzen, Psychology, U. Of ods, Washburn Mfg. Co.; Dr. Cal.; Geister, Play and Games, Widtsoe, Agriculture. Columbia, (two weeks); Hinman, Dancing, U. Of Chicago (two Special Lecturers: Edward Howweeks); Kester, Accounting, Coard Griggs, New York; Shailer lumbia; Kilpatrick, Education, Matthews, U. Of Chicago, Divinity Columbia; Luderbeck, Geology, School; E. A. Steiner, Grinnell, U. Of Cal.; Palmer, Nature Study, Iowa; A. E. Winship, Boston. Ist Term: June 15 to July 25 2nd Term: July 27 to Sept. 5 Register June 12 or 13 Tuition fee: $25 Ist term; $35 full quarter Write fer catalog LOGAN, UTAH. School Utah Agricultural ? When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (-? Daylight Your Kitchen The lighting arrangment of the average kitchen is woefully inadequate. The consequence of unnecessary eye strain producing nervous conditions which may lead to serious consequences. This is the opinion held by high medical authority. DURING APRIL ONLY You may have a fifteen day trial of the famous DAYLIGHT KITCHEN LIGHT?it floods your kitchen with restful, yet sufficient quantity of light and takes away the shadows. PAY 7c A MONTH ?for your light after you have tested it in your own home until the full price of $6.50 is paid. This price includes the DAYLIGHT KITCHEN LIGHT, Mazda lamp and installing. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service ? Glazier and Taylor HOSIERY COMPANY 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear  Per Pair $1.95 Box of three Pair $5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair.....$1.50 Box of Three Pairs................$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic. Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair....$1.50 Box of Three Fairs................$4.25 Hesiery durable.