[Vol10 | June 1923 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: A Joy-Crowned Visitor Minnie Iverson Hoddapp]

A Joy-Crowned Visitor Minnie Iverson Hoddapp It happened on a balmy summer isle. A Utah girl was doing missionary work among the Latter-day Saints in Hawaii. Of course she was a member of the Women's Kelief Society— in fact she was acting as a visiting teacher in that organization. Sister M. Was very proud of her new calling. She. Resolved to make herself efficient and useful in every way possible. Although her main work was teaching children in the English tongue, she grasped every opportunity to study the principles of the Hawaiian language. She applied herself diligently that she might learn to greet the older Saints agreeably in their own cherished tongue. But after weeks and months of striving with this creditable aim in view, our young sister found herself woefully lacking, speechless as it were. She became somewhat dispirited, but continued to study and visit among the Saints as usual. In her walks through the village, beautiful scenes presented themselves on every hand—blooming trees, fair fern-houses, twining vines, smiling hedges. Those good and motherly Hawaiian women never failed to show their sincere "Aloha" when she met them. "Oh, how I wish I could measure up to my calling!" This was the desire uppermost in Sister M. 's mind.. One afternoon, she entered a gate and walked down a long, narrow garden-path toward a little, low house set back among the trees. Fragrant oleanders, in pink and white bloom, nodded to greet her by the doorstep. No one came to answer her knock, but a glad voice called, "Come in! Come in!" On the floor sat a poor, lame grandmother. She was not only lame but totally blind. Sister M.—— grasped the woman's outstretched hand and explained as best she could in the Hawaiian, that she was a Relief Society teacher and had come to visit her. (How thankful she was that she had studied diligently.) Oh, the swift and happy expression that came into the dear grandmother's face! Never had Sister M. Beheld a more welcoming aspect. Then the Hawaiian grandmother blessed and praised the missionary girl. 'Twas a soul-felt Prayer of peace and joy and love unfeigned. Sister M. Understood all. What a happy, happy visit! When the girl was ready to go, the grandmother placed a beautiful "lei" or flower-garland around her neck, murmuring something for love's sweet sake. Again Sister M. Understood.