[Vol10 | June 1923 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial, The Divinity of Jesus Christ]

The Divinity of Jesus Christ A few days ago a building collapsed in Salt Lake City, killing one or two persons and injuring several others. The collapse was due to taking a building from its side that had been its support. When preachers and teachers attack the divinity of Christ, they are doing the same thing to individuals and to a Christian civilization as is done to a building when we take away its support. The report of the Save-a-Life League, published in March, throws some light on the very distressing results that may, and frequently do follow a lack of religious teaching, or bad religious teaching. The League reports twelve thousand suicides in the United States during the year. The reasons imputed for the act are oft-times as appalling as the act itself. Among those who took their lives in the United States last year were seventy-nine millionaires. What strikes one with peculiar force is the trivial reasons given by some of these persons for taking their lives. One girl took her life because she was disappointed in her appearance after bobbing her hair; a man, because he was forced to quit playing golf; a girl left a note saying she was taking poison just to get a "new thrill"; and a young man killed himself for the "fun of it." "Others," says Doctor Warren, at the head of the league, "destroyed themselves because the Christian religion had not reached them." 
 Comparatively speaking, the Puritan had few of the material comforts of life. In some respects his life was gray and drab and austere, yet there was in his soul a faith in the living God, and an exaltation of spirit that could convert the most commonplace things of life into visions of glory as seen in the light of eternal promise. Today many people are deluged with comforts. Their lives are colorful and many-sided, and yet with the low estimate they place upon the value of life, all these things are to them as naught, and they take a chance at snuffing out their lives, virtually hoping that death is the end. A goodly number of people have felt a great deal of distress at what has been going on in Russia, since the fall of the monarchy. Many there were who hoped that out of the confusion would come a better and freer type of civilization than the Russian had hitherto known. Those who wished her well have had their sensibilities shocked beyond measure at the story coming to us of what the Soviet papers call "Russia's First Public Challenge to God." According to newspaper reports, "On January 7, the date of the Russian Christmas, effigies of Jesus, Moses, and Mohammed were carted about the streets of Russian cities by paraders, and then thrown on bon-fires while young men dressed as devils and clergymen danced around them." France tried in the eighteenth century to substitute the Goddess of Reason for religion, but she was glad later to relinquish such folly. It is safe to say that Russia will not succeed in her outrageous program. Neither will those persons succeed who regard themselves learned and broad-minded, and yet seek at every turn to destroy faith in the divinity of Christ and his mission. Such sowing of wind will surely result in the reaping of a whirlwind. Religion to the entities of the soul is like the light of the sun to the world. It would make little difference how much grandeur there is in this world, if it had to be enveloped in total darkness. Jt makes little difference what the material or mental possessions of life may be if it is robbed of spiritual hope. The tendency to do away with life under such conditions is sure to suggest itself to many persons. The best way to preserve life, as also the moral status of the world, is to give to the human soul that hope and succor which the religion of Christ so abundantly affords. Religion augments every interest of life. Those who preach Christ as the Author of Life and Light, as the Son of God, and the Redeemer of the world, are putting into life its greatest verity, EDITORIAL 317 are heightening all things worth while, and deepening the value of every worthy human interest. Those persons who rob the Christ of his divinity, and teach such a doctrine are putting a philosophy into the world that will be fruitful in the destruction of human life and finally in the downfall of civilization itself. It is greatly to the credit of the late Bishop Tuttle that his last written words are words that tell the story of the Risen Redeemer. To the Latter-day Saints there need be no darkness on this point, for in the spring of 1820, the Father and the Son appeared to the Boy-Prophet in the woods of New York, and the one, pointing to the other said, "This is my beloved Son. Hear him!"