[Vol1 | March 1914 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Architecture]

ARCHITECTURE Lesson III. (Ten Minutes.) The Mountain Home: The mountain home: A screened porch or a series of porches.
The dining porch.
The Mountain Home.
The mountain home should be a porch, or a series of porches, all screened, with at least one room added, that can in stormy weather be closed in and easily and quickly warmed by stove or fireplace, preferably the latter.
The closed room may be provided with a sliding door on one side, that when open will make the room a part of the large porch.
The kitchen should be devised to be open or closed tightly, for in stormy weather the food cools quickly and in hot, dry weather the cook must have the cool breeze that generally stirs in the mountains.
If the cabin is set on a steep slope where the view naturally becomes the theme of interest and is the cause for selection of the site, the building may be set up on stilts, as it were.
Back of the house the earth should be shoveled away to make room for a path and from this should descend the path  leading to the water supply the creek.
Two rooms may be built below the porch and if more bedrooms be desired the loft (with screens on either end) may be used as a large sleeping porch.
There is one absolute necessity for comfort and health in a  canyon home, that is good screens no loop-holes left for the curious gnat, horsefly, mosquito, or house-fly.
All porches, windows and doors should be screened and even more important than this, the privy should be screened door, window and vault.
An adjustable screen at the back of the vault will save life and prevent sickness.
Preparation.
Let each member design a mountain home for her own family.
In this plan provide for a kitchen with stove and work-table and shelves, bathroom, if possible; if not, means for keeping wash basins and bath tub, etc.
A protected porch
12 cover for stationary dining table and cupboard for dishes.
Place for storing provisions.
Clothes presses; book shelves.
Suitable place for hammock.
Doors leading to creek, privy and necessary windows in kitchen.
Screened living porch.
Closed room with sliding door on porch.
ABOUT OUR