[Column 1]
two strangers bowing to the lady said,
“We are looking for a night’s lodging. We
are traveling without purse or scrip, like
the disciples of old, with no place to sleep
for the night. We seemed to be directed
hither, and we hope to have shelter,” said
the one who had entered first.
	“Certainly you shall have food and
lodging, for a night at least. But be seated
and lay off your outside wraps, the room
will be warm after being out in the cold.
Have you come far?”
	“Only from Mendon today, but we have
been traveling some weeks,” replied the
eldest of the strangers, though both men
were in the prime of life.
	Mrs. Emory looked at the stranger guests
like one amazed. She thought they must
be Methodist Circuit Preachers, yet they
were evidently traveling on foot. As they
removed their overcoats Mr. Emory noticed
that they carried books, and observed, “I
see you must be preachers. May I inquire
of what denomination you are? Methodist,
I presume?”
	“And are you Methodist?” the younger
man asked, now speaking for the first time.
	“No,” replied the host, “we are Camp-
bellites only recently connected. But you
have not told me of what persuasion you
are. Evidently you are sincere to be
traveling through the country as you do in
this sort of weather.”
	With some hesitation the older man,
(whom we shall call Gray) replied, “We
are Elders of the true Church of Latter-day
Saints, and we preach the Everlasting
Gospel of life and salvation.”
	For a moment no one spoke. The words
seemed to have come like a prophecy, but
the woman was the first to break the spell.
	“You seem to come with power. What
are the books you carry? Will you tell us
if you preach from them?”
	“We have the Bible and we preach re-
pentance and baptism for the remission of
sins.”
	“So does Alexander Campbell and Sidney
Rigdon, and it is our own faith,’’ said Mrs.
Emory, modestly.
	“We do not know of your church, I
fear, and must inquire further of your doc-
trines,” said Mr. Emory.
	“We are willing and glad to explain our
doctrines and to prove them all from the
Bible. But have you not heard of Joseph
Smith and the Book of Mormon?”
	“What is the Book of Mormon? I have
heard that a man named Smith, digging for
gold in a hill in New York State found
some gold plates and made them into a
book called The Golden Bible, but that is the
extent of my knowledge about it. I paid
no attention at all to the rumor. And so
you are his followers, are you?” said the
host.
	“We are proud to be recognized as be-
lieving in the last dispensation of the ful-
ness of times, and to testify that angels
visited Joseph Smith and conferred upon
him the Holy Priesthood, and he has be-
stowed it upon others.”
	This is a very strange doctrine and hard
to believe without further proof than you
are likely to be able to give. But you shall
have entertainment for the night and in the
morning we will speak of this new prophet
and the Golden Bible again. Meantime
will you have supper? We were preparing
to retire when you came, but you must not
go hungry. Mary, (turning to Mrs. Emory)
ask Aunt Polly to set some supper for
these gentlemen.”

[Column 2]
	Aunt Polly was very ungracious about
doing as she was asked by her niece, and
muttered to herself as she spread the cloth,
for she was not religious and always de-
clared she had no patience with men who
got their living without work.
	While the strangers were in the kitchen
(which Aunt Polly liked best of all the
house, and kept spick-span clean) Mr. and
Mrs. Emory talked of the guests who had
come unbidden to partake of their hospitali-
ty, and both husband and wife felt there
was something peculiar about them, and
even awe-inspiring, but could not tell why
they were so impressed by their presence.
	“I shall ask them to pray,” said the hus-
band, “we shall see how that will affect us.”
	During supper Aunt Polly was very
crabbed with them and they felt she was
angry they had come, she let them see it
plainly.
	Mr. Emory asked them to have prayers
as soon as they came into the room again,
and they knelt down. The prayer was like
a benediction upon them and the whole
household, and especially Mrs. Emory, who
was of a spiritual temperament, was melted
to tears. After they had retired she said to
her husband, “I never heard a prayer like
that, never.”
	The husband was not so susceptible, tho’
he was sore perplexed in his mind as to the
message these preachers brought. Their
earnestness and the way in which they were
going about was new to him, and he could
not question their sincerity. 
	The following morning the Elders were
up betimes, and were waiting when their
host and hostess came down stairs. The
breakfast was ready and the family gathered.
Mr. Emory, partly to judge the merits of
the men asked the younger one, (Mr. Dillon
we’ll call him) to offer prayer. Nothing
was said when they rose from their knees,
but Mr. Emory began, Yankee-like, to ply
them with questions concerning the tenets
of their faith, and the ready responses with
quotations from Scripture quite astonished
him. Mrs. Emory paid the closest attention
to the conversation, and became fully con-
vinced of the truth of the doctrines they
set forth.
	Breakfast over Mr. Emory said, “gentle-
men I must repair to my place of business
and will bid you good morning, but if you
preach in this vicinity, as I judge you wish
to do, from what you have said, I shall
certainly go to hear you, and you shall not
go away empty-handed.”
	He then offered them some money, which
they gladly accepted, and thanked him
heartily for his hospitality and the generous
gift.
	Before the day was over Aunt Polly came
into the room where her niece was and said,
“Mary, those canting preachers who staid
here last night are ‘Mormons.’ They’ve
been to Isaac Hartmon, one of your good
Campbellite brethren, and about converted
him to ‘Joe Smith,’ and they are going to
preach there at his house tonight.”
	“Then I shall go and hear them,” Mrs.
Emory answered, quickly, though Aunt
Polly remonstrated. And she kept her
word. Both herself and her husband were
at the meeting and listened attentively.
	Mrs. Emory was baptized very soon after-
wards. This was in November, 1830. Mr.
Emory took a little more time to study over
the matter and in about a week after his
wife’s baptism he, too, obeyed the same
principle, as also did a number of their
neighbors and friends.

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Emory was very zealous, and she
soon gave up the idea of her visit to Con-
necticut, so anxious was she to become ac-
quainted with the Gospel as taught by the
Elders of the Church. Mr. Emory was a
man of very strong character and of sterling
quality, of mind and principle. He sought
the Lord diligently in prayer in regard to
what he heard from the preachers, and
especially in reference to the Book of
Mormon, its authenticity and the manner
of its coming forth. His one desire was to
see the Prophet Joseph for himself, and he
centred his mind upon this one subject. He
prayed earnestly for it, but he believed that
he must go to visit him, and intended to do
so as soon as he could leave home long
enough. The weather was growing very
cold and the snow was thick enough on the
ground to be very good sleighing.
	Mrs. Emory was not aware of her hus-
band’s intense feelings about seeing the
Prophet, though she knew he was pro-
foundly interested in the Book of Mormon
and wanted Scriptural proofs of the doctrine.
	Just before Christmas, when Mr. Emory
was busy in his store with holiday goods, a
tall, majestic looking stranger came in late
one afternoon and stepped up to the counter,
and reaching out his right hand said, “How
do you do, Brother Emory?”
	Looking him full in the face and failing
to recognize him, Mr. Emory replied, “You
have the advantage of me, sir. I do not
know who you are,” or words to that effect
	“I am Joseph the Prophet,” he replied.
“You have prayed me here, now what do
you want of me ? My wife and servant
girl are outside in a sleigh, we have driven
a long distance.”
	In a moment it all flashed upon the mind
of Mr. Emory—his prayers, his pleadings
with the Lord to be permitted to see the
Prophet and talk with him face to face of
the heavenly visions and visits of angels;
yet here he stood, his prayers were answered
and he felt almost condemned.
	He was as one in a trance for a brief
moment, then he said, “Come with me to
my home,” and he hastened with the glad
tidings of great joy to his wife who was more
overcome than even her husband with the
startling news and the unlooked for visit of
the stranger guests. She knew not how
to receive them royally enough, and
modestly hesitated, but they were at the
door directly and needed a welcome, for
they were cold, and tired with the journey
in the inclement weather.
	As much embarrassed as one would be in
a kingly presence, yet rejoicing at the
privilege of such an honor, they welcomed
them to their hearts and home.
	Can our readers imagine the picture?
Perhaps many of the Saints, who are so ac-
customed to entertaining the greatest men
of our Church in this day, may fancy they
know how these early Latter-day Saints felt
at that time; but if you call to mind the
newness of the whole situation, the rever-
ence in which they held even the Elders
who had taught them the first lessons in
the Gospel, you will comprehend better the
feelings of those who were thus summarily
brought face to face with the Prophet, who
had been the recipient of the wonderful
spiritual manifestations of which they had
only just been told.
	Late into the night they sat round the
fire and conversed. The house seemed to
have been transformed as if by magic into a
heavenly abode, and as though angels were
present rejoicing with them.


