DR. TALMAGE’S NEW BOOK.
	Great Salt Lake Present and Past, is the
title of a book recently issued by the
Deseret News Publishing House.
	The author is Dr. James E. Talmage,
whose scientific knowledge is good author-
ity on many special subjects. His book is
certainly a very complete and comprehen-
sive work of its kind, and the people of
Utah have great reason to be proud of this
description of the lake, which they have
always felt was such a fine resort and
added so much to this intermountain region
because of its differentiation to all the
other lakes in America. To the student of
geology more especially this little work
will apply with greater interest than to
those who only consider it from a general
point of view.
	To one intensely fond of natural beauty
in scenery Salt Lake and its surroundings
is a picture of marvelous attractions morn-
ing, noon or night; in sunshine or in
storm. Its continuous mountain range of
islands and great picturesqueness to the
view, and the variety of birds that live upon
these deserted and seemingly unin-
habited islands play a conspicuous part in
these scenes of solitude: their graceful
flights, their brilliant plumage and the
sound varieties whether of the whirring
of wings or screeching, screaming or
melancholy croaking or cooing—all these
signs of sight or sound accentuate the wild
charm of this “Dead Sea of America” over
and beyond the Jordan.
	Dr. Talmage has conferred a favor on
the State by writing such a book and by
having it illustrated, giving as it does facts
and figures that will be invaluable to
the student of natural or geographical
history, as well as the geologist.
	Dr. Talmage tells the reader not only of
the lake, its beauty and health-giving
properties, but of the process of making
salt which we use daily with our food. The
book contains so much that is food for the
mind that one need not hesitate to recom-
mend it as well worth not only perusal, but
study, and as a book of reference, and in
many respects the book would be an aid in
research valuable to the historian.
	The people of Utah are very proud of
Great Salt Lake, and whatever fields of dis-
covery are open our young men and women
should avail themselves of the knowledge,
and not remain in ignorance of the vast re-
sources of this wonderful, and as yet in
many places unexplored country. We
venture to say there are many things in the
book referred to that will be a surprise to
the student of science and natural history.


THE Jewish Women of Cincinnati furnish
free trolley rides for convalescents among
their sick poor.


