HALF A CENTURY.
	Naturally one feels when fifty years of
life have passed, that he has reached an im-
portant period, and can look back with
pride if something creditible has been ac-
complished. Elder Andrew Jenson,
Assistant Church Historian, whose fiftieth
birthday anniversary was celebrated on the
eleventh of this month, has the satisfaction
of having spent thirty-four years in the ser-
vice of the Church.
	The party in his honor was arranged by
his family and two or three hundred in-
vitations sent out, some long distances.
	The entertainment was given in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms, which
were handsomely decorated with evergreens,
palms, etc. Four tables the entire length
of the hall were provided witn the bounties
of the earth for the delectation of the guests.
	The tables were well filled with the
happy crowd assembled, glad to do justice
to the variety of good things prepared for
the banquet.
	When the goodly company were seated
Apostle John Henry Smith pronounced the
blessing. Apostle Anthon H. Lund was
master of ceremonies and welcomed the
company in a few well chosen words. The
exercises were somewhat varied. Some
congratulatory telegrams and letters from
absent friends were read by Brother Lund.
Apostle J. H. Smith, President Angus M.
Cannon and Sister E. B. Wells were the
first impromptu speakers, each congratu-
lating him and wishing him every blessing
to which the faithful are entitled in this life
and hereafter. Afterwards Brother Jenson
made an address in which he spoke of his
labors as a historian and how much he en-
joyed the work, and of his love for the
Gospel and his desires for the future.
	President Joseph E. Taylor told a story
which related, in fact, to his own life and
that of Brother Jensen, and the coincidence
of birth on the same day of the year,
though he has attained to three score and
ten. His remarks were extremely felicitous
and carried one’s thoughts into the previous
existence.
	Apostle John Taylor was very amusing,
and specially complimentary to the ladies.
	There were songs by home celebrities and
recitations by little Miss Allen that were
very humorous and heartily applauded, as
also were the vocalists.
	A photographer came and took flash
pictures of the whole company, table, decor-
ations and all.


Counselor Arthur Barnes, of the City
Council, spoke a short time in a happy vein
and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Roundy read a care-
fully prepared and well written paper giving,
some idea of Brother Jensen’s early life, his
birthplace in Denmark, his travels to the
holy land and around the world. The
evening entertainment closed with singing
“Auld Lang Syne,” and benediction by
Elder Adolph Madsen.


