[Column 1]
MISS ANTHONYS ADVICE TO MOTHERS
	Only the opening paragraphs of Miss
Anthony’s greetings were read before the
Congress, and although, local leaders pre-
sented some suffrage resolutions, they were
suppressed. Leaders in the Congress
deemed it unwise to take up the snbject lest
inharmony arise. Miss Anthony’s letter
was as follows:
	MY DEAR FRIEND;—I am in receipt of your

[Column 2]
letter asking for a letter to the National Congress
of Mothers. It is true, as you say, that I am al
ways a very busy woman; nevertheless I always
have time to give my word of sympathy to every
organization for the betterment of the world.
	I have watched the progress of the Congress of
Mothers with a great deal of interest. Women can
find no more important work than a study of
the best ways and means for performing their
duties to their children.
	I trust those who are assembled in Des Moines
will not fail to recognize that the duty of the
mother does not lie entirely within the four walls of
the home, but that it extends also to the making
and controlling of the conditions which surround
these children when they go beyond the home.
	For this purpose she must have a voice in the
government of the municipality of the State and
nation. Not only the ordinances of the Common
Council, but the laws made by the Legislature and
by the Congress itself, vitally effect the conditions
which influence the home.
	Another strong reason why the mother should
have a voice in political matters—should possess
the power to make and unmake both laws and
lawmakers—is in order that the children shall con-
sider her opinions of as much value as those of the
f[---]er
	It seems to me, therefore, that the very first thing
that should be done by the National Congress of
Mothers is to demand for all women perfect
equality of political rights.
	Enclosed is a petition to Congress for a sixteenth
amendment to the Federal Constitution w[-]ich shall
enfranchise women. In the name of motherhood I
urge that this body, by its president and secretary
shall sign this petition. To procure the powerful
influence of the ballot is in direct line with the ob-
jects of this association, for whatever you may de-
cide to be the paramount duties of the mothers, its
possession will the better enable her to discharge
them.
	Hoping that you will have an interesting and
instructive Congress, and with kind regards to all
its members, I am very sincerely yours,
