[Column 1]
WAR, FAMINE, DESTRUCTION AND
			DANGER.
	The glad news that came by dispatches
on the 18th of August concerning the lega-
tions at Peking in China must have seemed
almost too good to be true after the pro-
longed strain upon the people caused by the
terrible news which came day after day of
the inhuman atrocities perpetrated.
	To those whose friends or relatives were
thus hemmed in, as it were, from all com-
munication, it must, have been something
akin to a message from the “other world,”
and the relief from anxiety and the strain
upon one’s mind and heart, can never be
described in fitting words. The whole
civilized world felt deeply this terrible out-
rage. What must have been the feelings
of those near and dear? It is impossible to
imagine. If these people some of them
live to tell the tale, vivid pen pictures of
their sufferings will be part of the historical
data of the future.
	That the great gates of the Chinese em-
pire were opened by the allied forces, prin-
cipally, it would seem Japanese and Russian,
is really true; and the whole enlightened
world must assuredly rejoice in such an
event. The Chinese wall has been thought
impregnable for thousands of years, but at
last the inventions of men in instruments of
destruction have been strong and effective
enough to open the gates of Peking to the
world outside. Surely the world does
move, and progress is being made along all
lines, material and scientific. 
	Now that the gates of China are opened
what will be the next move on the part of
those Chinese Boxers, who fancied they
were holding the world at bay? no doubt
those heroic soldiers, with their mighty
Generals and leaders who have done such
extraordinary feats already, are prepared to
do more; those who live, but how many
dead and wounded are to be accounted for,
cannot as yet be determined, and though
news travels quickly now across the sea and
land, yet the soldiers’ wives and families
will suffer unspeakable agonies of suspense
before facts in relation to the dead and
wounded can be made public.
	The Boxers have been made world-wide
notorious, and yet a few mouths ago
thousands of people never had heard the
name, who are now familiar with the re-
cital of their deeds of cruelty, Miss Anna

[Column 2]
M. Benjamin has a fine article in the
Outlook for July 1900, written in Peking
the latter part of May of this year, in which
she speaks of that city as on the “eve of
anarchy.” Miss Benjamin tells us the
Boxers, though only recently heard from,
is in reality a secret society which existed
through the whole Mauchee dynasty. It
was undoubtedly formed by the Manchee
couquerors. It used to be not very long
ago the White Lotus Society, and it has of
late years been termed “The Great Knife or
Sword Society.” Miss Benjamin states in
her article that “because of the Boxers’
continuous murder of innocent Chinese,
they may yet feel the vengeance of the
Chinese law before they carry their
righteousness to any great lengths. She
thinks that the Dowager Empress could at
that time have nipped the whole thing in
the bud with a few vigorous measures.”
	Before this paper goes to press we shall
undoubtedly be informed of many soul-
thrilling facts in relation to the breaking
down of the gates of Peking, and the relief
of those immuned within the city’s
walls

	The terrible state of anarchy which seems
to exist in the civilized world at the pres-
ent time is indeed terrifying, though at
present only directed against those in high
places, yet such a spirit of rebellion against
law and order is not to be easily quelled or
confined within given bounds. The old
saying, “Uneasy lies the head that wears a
crown,” is assuredly applicable in this age
of unrest and unholy ambition. Well may
we refer to the prophecies of ancient and
modern prophets, for there seems no safety,
and cry out as we may and do for peace,
“Peace seems to be taken from the earth,
and the avenging sword has gone forth to
slay.” In the footsteps of war comes famine
and the cry has reached the farthermost
corners of the Western world from far-off
India of the terrible suffering there. Ap-
peals for help for the starving children are
almost continuous and would move to pity
a heart of stone.

	In all countries throughout Christendom
it would seem more strict measures are
being taken and more precautions used to
safeguard rulers and men in high places.
Even in the free Republic of the United
States this has been necessary. Surely we
in this age have “fallen upon evil times,”
notwithstanding the enlightenment of the
nineteenth century and the efforts made to
educate the masses and all the various
methods adopted, plans undertaken and
money expended to reach all classes of
citizens and especially the younger gener-
ation. It appears almost incredible in the
face of such far-reaching educational ad-
vantages as now exist that there should be
such misunderstandings, such lack of re-
straint of evil passions. Yet one is obliged
to acknowledge these facts and accept the
situation as there is no other alternative.
	However, it is not well to look on the
dark side or suffer discouragement or failure
to prevent one from attempting to better con-
ditions.
	There are, no doubt, greivous mistakes
in educational systems as there are also in
government; some of these are easily seen,
others, perhaps, are not so clearly under-
stood.
	The importance of training for citizen-
ship is one which demands attention by

[Column 3]
educators as well as parents. It is a fact
that classical education, or scientific or
business course, all these are sought for and
obtained by young men and young women,
all these special lines of usefulness are
taught without the individual getting into
the broader fields and wider range which
prepares one to become a good citizen of a
commonwealth where every man and every
woman is or ought to be a part of the body
politic. There must be a development of
certain qualities and habits of character,
such as courage, discipline and loftiness of
purpose; these are some of the things essen-
tial to maintain free institutions and good
government. One must have the courage
of his convictions, whether moral, political
or religious, in order to exercise his rights
in the face of possible intimidation, other-
wise no amount of learning will save the
man or woman from degenerating or his
faith political or religious from becoming
mere mockery. Responsibility is one of the
factors in bringing out qualities that dis-
tinguish character.
	We are aware that as regards political
education there are various new methods
introduced in the schools and universities of
the present day.
	Of course we are not ignorant of the fact
that Political Economy, so called is taught
in the schools and also sociology and poli-
tics in the class rooms, but there must be
exactitude and ideals; and yet one must not
lose sight of the overwhelming importance
of character.
	Public opinion with many regulates the
public conscience, and the newspapers of
the day have much to do with educating
public sentiment, and as many of them are
sensational it is hardly safe to trust the
average newspaper to regulate the public or
form disinterested public opinion. The
grave responsibility then is thrown back
upon institutions of learning and they must
be such as teach self-government, and a high
moral influence, independent of money
making power, a fixed standard and quality
of permanence. A liberal education in the
best sense, a public spirit, the development
of loyalty, a breadth of character, a per-
manent interest in the profound things of
life.
	If every young man—or nearly so, as it
seems nowadays—who goes into the school
or college is to be a Dr. of Philosophy or
Professor, or possible D. D. or L. L. D., or
graduate with some high sounding title,
making the profession their sole aim and
ambition, where are we to get the men who
are to be the great leaders of men, to serve
the public in this great commonwealth.

	The Executive meeting of the Inter-
national Council in Paris was held in the
American Pavilion. This council repre-
sents eleven nationalities. Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, president, and the Countess of
Aberdeen, vice-president at large, were
present. Lady Aberdeen, for reasons partly
political and partly personal resigned her
position as chairman of the comm ittee on
Peace and Arbitration. This was g[-]eatly
regreted by the ladies of the Council. In-
formal conferences are held every Tuesday
from 4 to 6 o’clock. Mrs. Sewall leads
these conference, speaking in French and
in English alternately.
	In order that the ladies who atttend may
get acquainted tea is served before the con-
ference begins, and small tables are set
around the room and the ladies are intro-
duced to each other by the hostess, Mrs.


Sewall. Many French societies are repre-
sented. Each society seems working for the
Congress that will be held in September.
	Miss Vidart from Switzerland, spoke at
one of these conferences with great power,
taking her own country as an example,
twenty-two cantons, every one of them
independent, had formed a unity through
federation. This is the idea of the National
Council all over the world women agree on
many vital questions. The International
Council can help and strengthen each of
these National Councils and societies in
many ways.
	Mr. W. T. Stead, in a speech at one of
these meetings blamed his own country
very severely. He told the ladies what the
Boer war had cost the country in money
and men, but added he could not make out
what it had cost the country in sorrow for
the dead and anxiety for the living.  He
closed by encouraging the International
Council to work for universal peace and
arbitration.

	Better news from China has been coming
of late and America’s share in the relief
work seems to have been done in a way to
do credit to the country. Secretary Hay is
commended for his timely and wise advice
in matters pertaining to the United States
government, and this republic is the one
least under suspicion of having ulterior
motives. Altogether affairs seem to look
more favorable than could have been ex-
pected so soon after the terrible outbreak.
	However there must still be great un-
certainty where so little can really be
known and so many countries involved.
One must not expect too much, even though
some formidable barriers have been removed
that hindered communication between
China and other great powers. It is de-
voutly to be hoped that a better condition
of things may be developed ere long, and
that the “Treaties with foreign powers in-
stead of war, and every avenue be opened
for the betterment of mankind the world
over.


