[Column 1]
OUR SCANDINAVIAN WOMEN.
A TYPE. 
I sat in father's cosy room one day, 
Perusing dreamily a favorite book,
Engrossed in Hamlet Prince of Denmark's dreams 
And wondering how Prince Hamlet used to look,
An upward glance dispelled my bookish thoughts, 
Awoke the real in my wakeful dream, 
Revealed a life which I had never known, 
A life which I so truly noble deem, 
I fain would make my life what that doth seem.
My grandma's picture hung upon the wall,
And as I looked upon the kindly face 
With lips compressed, yet wreathed 
In smiles which time and age could not efface, 
I lost myself and woke on Denmark's Isle-
And see! in middle age and passing fair, 
Calling her little sons about her knee,
To teach them honesty, love, faith and prayer, 
A woman struggling with her load of care.
And lo! a weary traveler stops to rest.
She bids him welcome, shares her frugal meal—
“One of the least of these my little ones," 
Her lips repeat, and blessed does she feel.
She hears his message, life and light divine, 
Calmly and peacefully it floods her soul; 
Her heart rejoices in the light and life 
Which shall endure while endless ages roll:
She recognizes truth, loves and accepts the whole.
A struggle follows: he who has vowed 
To love and cherish her while life shall last, 
Though he believes cannot endure the scorn 
That comes to those 'mong whom her lot is cast, 
He hears but answers not the Shepherd's call; 
He sees but follows not the heavenly light; 
He fears but does not shun the demon dark
That drags him onward in its tireless flight, 
To hurl him down to dreary, awful night. 
And so she stands alone, with only God. 
Her chosen, neverfailing, powerful friend; 
And now leaves husband, home, her native land, 
All things on which a woman’s joys depend—
And guided by the beacon light of faith, 
Goes forth in search of Zion's holy hill,
Leading her youthful sons from vice and sin,
To the pure fountain of her Father's will-
Praying and weeping-Praying and trusting still.
I cannot trace her o'er the trackless plain-
My eyes anon fill up with scalding tears-
A hopeful pilgrim in a pilgrim band, 
Footsore, aweary, prey to constant fears 
From savage hordes; or fainting by the way, 
From nightly vigil o'er some sufferer kept: 
Who ere the morn by plague is snatched away, 
His requiem sung, hot tears of anguish wept, 
E'en though at eve so peacefully he slept.
What wonder that her woman frame gave way?
What wonder that her spirit took its flight? 
And yet she lived to see this blessed land,
Saw darkness bursting into glorious light: 
Saw friends, saw home, the city of the Saints--

[Column 2]
Saw and rejoiced, rejoiced and was content-
Nor deemed the sacrifice she made too great 
For this one blissful hour by heaven sent, 
In which the fulness of her soul was spent. 
HEROINES.
So I move from my father's study, 
Where grandma's picture is hung, 
And I think of the hundreds of women 
That I live and move among-
Women who, just like grandma, 
Have breasted the stormy wave, 
Women with souls as noble, 
Women with hearts as brave. 
And I see their trials and hardships,
Their doubts and sickening fears, 
Their struggles and privations, 
Their heart-aches and their tears;
And I see them enter a valley,
That is desolate, bleak and bare, 
And gladly accept the burden 
Which it is their lot to share.
And whether with loved companions 
They greet the barren soil; 
Or whether for son or brother, 
They harden their hands by toil, 
They are earnest, sober, truthful, 
With a constant great delight 
In the overthrow of Error, 
And the victory of right.
So with men of might and valor, 
Hand in hand these women go, 
Toiling on 'mid heat and hunger, 
Or 'mid winter's drift of snow; 
So heart and soul with their brothers, 
They battle 'gainst every sin, 
With a struggle that defies submission,
With a vigor that's bound to win.
TRIUMPHS.
A lapse of a few brief seasons now, 
And I look again at the lonely vale; 
The changes made by the faithful plow, 
Would read, methinks, like a fairy tale; 
But those women are there and are still the same, 
Though not renowned or known to fame,
And still they come from those northern climes,
And are welcomed still to our blessed land 
In the mountain-tops, where in ancient times, 
God's prophets saw the faithful stand.
And the vale is filled with happy homes, 
With meadows, orchards and growing wheat, 
With chapels where, when the Sabbath comes, 
These honest people for worship meet,
And praise their Maker in prayer and song,
And approve what's right and condemn what's 
wrong, 
And always these noble sisters live, 
By the light of the Savior's plan,
And ever their hearts and souls will give 
For the betterment of man. 
Thank heaven for all these sturdy ones,
These men of toil, these women true,
Who, working on through storms and suns,
Found naught too hard for their hands to do,
And whether on earth or whether above,
We open the records of life and love,
By the side of the names of our Danish sires.
Whose hearts grew warm in the Gospel light 
Will our mothers be, for those living fires 
Have kept them as truly bright.
