[Column 1]
earth works, and the point that would have
been most accessible to an attacking force
was Fort Washington; so that the earth-
works are higher and steeper than at any
other place. The first name of this historic
spot was Mount Job, but there was, I think,
in 1757 a forge built on Valley creek, and
f[-]om that the place came to be known as
Valley Forge, where the raw recruits from
thirteen colonies were so ably drilled by
Baron Van Steuben, that they were able to
defeat the best English soldiers. We are
all familiar with the account of the suffer-
ings of our soldiers during that “terrible
winter” at Valley Forge, but Captain Todd
told me that the mortality among the
soldiers from the south was much greater
than among the northern soldiers, because
in building their huts they would not dig
deep enough into the earth, and were,
therefore, not protected against the cold.
Though the ground was covered by
graves at one time the only one that is now
marked is that of Captain John Waterman.
He is buried on a part of Captain Todd’s
property, and the Captain offered to give to
the Daughters of the Revolution that spot 
of ground, on condition that they would
erect a monument in honor of the brave
dead. The offer was accepted and the
monument will be erected.
The only buildings of Revolutionary fame
remaining are General Washington’s head-
quarters and the old camp schoolhouse. We
had lunch at a modern hotel called “The
Washington Inn.” The headquarters
house is in charge of the Centennial
and Memorial Association of Valley Forge.
This society is composed of ladies and
gentlemen. The present Regent is a lady,
Mrs. Anna M. Holstein, of Bridgeport.
The following statement is made of the
Headquarters House: “From cellar to
attic it is in good preservation, and appears
today precisely as it did when Washington
was domiciled within it. The doors, with
bells and locks, are the very same his
hands have moved; the floors, except a por-
tion of the one in the office room, are those
over which the Great Chieftain has walked
in many a weary hour; the window glass
and sash are unchanged since the days
when anxious eyes looked through them at
the soldiers’ huts upon the hills.”
In speaking of Valley Forge Thackeray
tells how easy it would have been for Howe
with his great army in Philadelphia to have
utterly defeated the American forces and
put a period to the Revolution at this time,
he says. “But it was ordained by heaven,
and for the good, as we can now have no
doubt, of both empires, that the great
Western Republic should separate from us;
and the gallant soldiers who fought on her
side, their indomitable chief above all, had
the glory of facing and overcoming, not
only veterans amply provided and inured
to war, but wretchedness, cold, hunger,
dissensions and treason in their own camp,
where all must have gone to rack but for
the pure, unquenchable flame of patriotism
that was forever burning in the bosom of
the heroic leader. What a constancy!
What a magnaminity! What a surprising
persistency against fortune! Washington
before the enemy was no better nor braver
than hundreds who fought with him or
against him; but Washington, the chief of
a nation in arms, doing battle with distracted
parties: calm in the midst of conspiracy;
serene against the open foe before him and
the darker enemies at his back; Washington
inspiring order and spirit into troops hun-

[Column 2]
gry and in rags; stung by ingratitude yet
ever ready to forgive; in defeat invincible,
magnaminous in conquest and never so
sublime as on the day when he laid down
his victorious sword and sought his noble
retirement. Here indeed is a character to
admire and revere, a fame without a flaw.”
On Wednesday evening the Pennsylvania
Society D. R. gave their delightful recep-
tion. A number of Colonial pictures were
shown, illustrating a lecture. The speaker
gave us a part of Paul Revere, but I did
not like his rendition of it nearly as well as
I did that of our Vice-Regent, Mrs. Wil-
liams.
Thursday morning we went to German-
town, saw the house where Gibbul-Stewart
painted the pictures of George and Martha
Washington, also Robert Morris’s house,
that Howe used as his headquarters while
in Philadelphia. We also visited most of
the scenes spoken of in Hugh Wynne, but
the principal places of interest were the
Germantown Academy, a boys’ school
founded by Franklin, and frequently visited
by Washington and the Chew House. This
house is still owned by the Chew family,
one of the wealthiest and most exclusive in
Philadelphia, and is not open to the public,
but as a special courtesy to the D. R., Mrs.
Chew threw her house open for their in-
spection. Chief Justice Chew was a great
friend of Washington’s, but on the morning
of October 4, 1777, some English soldiers
entrenched themselves in the house and the
battle of Germantown occurred right on
this spot. Mrs. Chew was so charming
and gave us a full history of the event.
The D. R’s. were officially represented
in the services of the unveiling of the Grant
monument on April 27, 1899, and our
President-General placed a laurel wreath
tied with the D. R. colors.on the monument.
On Thursday afternoon we visited the
University of Pennsylvania and were shown
about by Mr. Penniman, Dean of the Col-
lege department.
All of Friday was consumed in the drive
through Fairmount park. This ended the
week’s excursions, and Miss Sterling said
she considered it the cream of the enjoyable
events. We visited the Penn House, the
first brick house built in Philadelphia. It
was built by William Penn in 1682; also the
Belmont Mansion. The home of Judge
Richard Peters stands on George’s hill and
overlooks the city of Philadelphia. Wash-
ington used to ride out early in the morn-
ing alone. Other guests were Jefferson,
Adams, Morris, General Steuben, Louis
Phillipi and Franklin. Mount Pleasant,
Benedict Arnold’s home, later Baron Steu-
ben’s, was the last spot visited on the
drive.
