[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM.
MARY ANN PRICE HYDE. 
"The journey is over, the fight is fought, 
She has reached the home of her love, 
And the smile on her beautiful face is caught, 
From the land of smiles above." 
"After the burden and heat of the day, 
The starry calm of night, 
After the rough and toilsome way, 
A sleep in the robe of white." 
"The silent chamber faceth the East,
Faceth the dawn of day,
And the shining feet of our great High Priest, 
Shall break through the shadows grey." 
From time to time we are called upon to 
chronicle the demise of one after another of 
the veteran sisters and mothers in Israel, 
whose lives have been shining examples 
among the Latter-day Saints. Many of 
those women who helped to build the 
foundations of the Church have gone to a 
higher sphere and those who remain of this 
shining galaxy of the sisterhood are fewer 
than those who have departed. 

[Column 2]
Sister Mary A. Hyde was one to be re-
membered among those who helped to 
establish plural marriage. The principle 
of this holy order of matrimony was taught 
her by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself,
and he performed the ceremony that united 
her to Apostle Orson Hyde in the city of 
Nauvoo, Illinois, in the year 1843. Sister 
Hyde honored the principle and was her-
self an honor to the family into which she 
was received at the time of her marriage 
and ever afterwards to the time of her de-
cease. She lived to a good old age, eighty-
four years the 5th of June, 1900. She de-
parted in peace at 6:30 on the morning of 
the 16th of June, 1900. She had suffered 
intensely from various causes for the last 
three weeks previous to that time, though 
her faith in the gift of healing and the ad-
ministration of the laying on of hands never 
wavered in the least, but she longed to go 
and be at rest, and meet with her husband 
and those she knew and loved while they 
tabernacled in the flesh.
Deceased was born at Lea, Gloucester-
shire, England, June 5, 1816, and had a 
very happy childhood in the bosom of a 
united and prosperous family. Her father 
was an honorable business man, and her 
mother educated, cultivated and refined.
Her maiden name was Price. Miss Price 
was educated at Broad Oaks Academy, a 
select school for girls, not far from her 
home in Gloucestershire. She was the first 
of her family to receive the Gospel as taught 
by the Elders of the Latter day Saints, and 
with a younger sister, Emma, a very 
beautiful girl, preceded the other members 
of the family to Nauvoo, arriving in 1841.
Her brother had sent a present to the 
Prophet Joseph Smith, which gave Miss 
Price an opportunity to introduce herself 
to the Smith family. She was greatly im-
pressed with the noble bearing and gentle 
manners of this great and good man, whom 
she afterwards met and became well ac-
acquainted with. 
The following year. 1842, when Apostle 
Orson Hyde was returning from his mis-
sion to Palestine the Price family, mother,
brothers and sisters traveled with him 
across the sea and to Nauvoo. 
When the Saints were driven from Nau-
voo, Sister Mary Ann Hyde was one among 
the exiles with the Hyde family. The 
hardships and privations were many and in 
Council Bluffs she was permaturely confined 
October 15, 1846. Her babe, a little girl, 
died on the 27th. This was her only
child.
Apostle Orson Hyde remained at the 
Bluffs called Kanesville until 1850, and 
was the editor of the first paper published 
in Iowa, called the Frontier Guardian. He 
remained there until 1850, when he crossed 
the plains to this valley with his family. 
In 1855 he was called to settle Carson,
then in Utah but now in Nevada, and Sister 
Mary Ann Hyde went and shared in his 
labors in colonizing the new country, and 
remained with him until he was called 
home. Afterwards, in the early hardships 
of frontier life in Sanpete Co., where 
Apostle Orson Hyde was called to preside 
over the Stake, Sister Mary Ann Hyde 
was his faithful amanuensis and companion 
in all his varied labors. 
In Spring City, where they resided, when 
the Relief Society was first organized in 
1868, Sister Hyde was chosen president and 
accepted the position until 1879, eleven 
years when she was appointed president of 
the Relief Society of Sanpete Stake, which

[Column 3]
position she occupied at the time of her 
death. She journeyed from settlement to
settlement visiting the several branch
societies, advising, counseling and stimulat-
ing to higher endeavor and nobler effort the
organizations. She had rare executive
ability, and was of a highly spiritual nature;
with the two combined she was eminently
qualified for the important labors of her
position.
Sister Hyde enjoyed her labors and mag-
nified her calling. The Saints in Sanpete
Stake will miss her presence among them
and will feel her loss deeply. She often
spoke in the gift of tongues and always
with good effect; scores of young people
have been strengthened in their faith thro’
her teachings in the exercise of this precious
gift, which she held sacred.
During her illness she was tenderly cared
for by the Hyde family, she resided with
one of the daughters generally when in the
city, to whom she was fondly attached, and
in that home her spirit took its flight to the
realms on high.
The funeral was held in the Second Ward
meeting house, Bishop Heber C. Iverson
conducting the services. The music was
excellent, hymns appropriate. The speakers
were Elder A. M. Musser, Apostle Anthon
Lund, Sister E. B. Wells, Dr. J. E.
Talmage and Elder Alonzo E. Hyde.
Brother Hyde paid a beautiful tribute to
her life and character in his remarks. Her
form reposed in a lovely white casket, and
her robes were white as snow, befitting the
purity of a life devoted to the work of
God upon the earth. There were many
beautiful floral offerings and a sheaf of
ripened grain. Two of Sister Hyde’s 
brothers attended the funeral, one from
Goshen and one from Nephi, also a nephew
and family from Mexico, and others of her
relatives.
The following day the remains were taken
to Spring City, where she had lived and
labored many years, and after suitable ser-
vices Sister Hyde’s body was laid to rest
beside her husband, there to await the morn
of the First Resurrection; though she is not
there, but has gone to join that innumer-
able company on the other shore, where
there is no more pain or sorrow forevermore.
E. B. W.


