[Column 1]
many times and asked the Lord to tell
me what I should do, and I had faith He
would do so again. I wanted to serve Him
but did not know how. I loved the
Wesleyans but my mother would not
allow me to join their class, and I always
thought they were the most liberal in their
views of any of the religious sects I knew
about. I said nothing to my sister nor any
one else, but poured out my soul to my
Heavenly Father, with full assurance that
He would answer me. I shall never forget
how very different everything those people
had said looked to me. I was in a room
alone most of the time and I prayed earnest-
ly unto the Lord to show me if I had erred
in my thoughts or actions.
	The next night I shall never forget. I
went to bed and the struggle I had with
the destroyer I shall never forget, neither
can I ever describe; but the angel of the
Lord stood by me all that night, and when
morning came I was very much distressed.
I realized there were two powers: the power
of God and the power of Satan.
	The Elders all left my sister’s place im-
mediately after Christmas. On Friday, the
last day of the year. I prayed sincerely to
the Lord that if the Latter-day Saints were
right He would inspire some one of the
Elders to come and I would be baptized.
From that time I began to think that I
would give everything to be a member of
that Church. I never told even my sister 
about what I had done, nor through what I
had passed. It was an ordeal that I can
never forget, but the Lord heard my prayer.
	New Year’s morning came, and shortly
after I arose. I sat alone in the parlor and 
heard a rap at the door. I listened very
attentively to see who it was. My sister
went to the door, and was very much sur-
prised, for there stood the Elder who one 
week before had said that I would soon be-
long to their ranks. My sister had called
him by name and asked what had brought
him back, but he answered that he did not
know. He then asked if her sister were
still there? She told him that I was, and
asked him to come in and see me. He
came in and sat down and commenced to
talk to me. I was ashamed to talk to him
for the manner I had talked to him one
week before. He looked at me a moment
and then said: “Are you ready to be bap-
tized?” That word spoke volumes to my
soul. I answered “Yes.” He then said,
“I know now why the spirit of the Lord
inspired me to come here.”
	He sat down and taught me many things
concerning the Gospel. That was the first
time I had ever listened to the first principles
of the Gospel. The more I heard, the more
I felt thankful to my Heavenly Father for
sparing my life to hear and obey the truth.
	That night was very cold and foggy, but
I did not fear the cold nor did I think of my
weakness. Two of my friends led me to
the water and the Elder baptized me in the
name of the Lord Jesus Christ. I walked
out of the water a well person, and the joy
I felt that night I shall never forget. My
soul was full of peace and love. I asked
my folks to forgive me for being so mean as
I was but one week before. My sister was
very much pleased when she found out my
intention, for I had not spoken a word to
her about it until after I had told the Elder
I was ready to be baptized. This was
January 1, 1842.
	The next day was Sunday, and we all
fasted until after sundown. I did not have

[Column 2]
anything but my new religion, that seemed
all I needed. I had read the Bible from
beginning to end, and now the Lord opened
my understanding. I saw things so differ-
ent to what they seemed before, I was not
afraid, nor did I care who knew I was a
Mormon.
	I remained with my sister until the 8th,
then I walked home, two weeks and one
day from the time when I was taken away
in bed. I expected to find my mother and
father and friends surprised, and thankful
to see me well once more, but I was the
one to be surprised. When I entered the
house I found some one had conveyed the
news to my mother, that I had joined the
Mormon Church. She treated me very un-
kindly and told me she did not wish to see
me again. She said if I had but died when I
was sick how thankful she would have
been; she cried bitterly I told her that I
would have joined with the Methodists
but she would not allow me to. She said
the Elders were wicked to baptize me with-
out her consent. My answer to this was
that the Lord had consented, and with His
help I would stand firm to the covenants I
had made with Him. From that day to
this I have never had the shadow of a doubt
cross my mind with regard to the principles
of the Gospel.
	I soon found that my friends were few
and far between, but I knew that my
Father in heaven was my friend, I had
proved Him. I had volunteered to stand
by the Church I had joined and defend it,
but my mother’s unkindness caused me to
shed bitter tears. But in spite of all this
my religion grew dearer to me every day.
	When the next Sunday came there was
considerable snow on the ground, but I
told mother I must go to meeting. She
said that if I did go she hoped that I would
not come home alive. I was blessed with a
great deal of will power, so I went. Oh,
how strange it seemed to me! To think
that after the love and kindness that was
shown to me a short time ago, now no one
seemed to care for me. There was no one
to speak a kind word to me, no love, every-
thing looked dark and cold.
	I did not know much about the religion I
had embraced, and there was no one within
five or six miles who could talk to me about
it. But there was consolation with the
Elders and Saints, so to meeting I went.
While there I forgot all my troubles, and
thought only of the exceedingly good time
we were having.
	After meeting I told my sister that I
must go home that night, mother was very
unkind to me, but I should go so as to give
her as little chance to bring anything against
me as possible. So I started and in time
arrived in safety. The first words my
mother said when I came in were’ “I wish
you had died before you came back!”
	I was weary of my journey, for it was
very hard walking, so I went up stairs and
asked the Lord to soften my mother’s heart.
In a short time my mother came and told
me to come down and get something to eat.
Had I done as I felt, I would not have gone
down for I was not used to such treatment.
It did seem hard to think that I had not a
friend now where I once had scores. Not
even one of my old associates would recog-
nize me when we would meet, or if they
did it was to insult or abuse me.
	The next Sunday came, the snow had
melted and left the roads very muddy.
Again I went to meeting, but with the

[Column 3]
same unkind treatment before going and on
returning. But I felt as strong as a lion.
I did not fear anything that might come
along. My health was good and I felt that
I must bear my daily cross. I knew that
God had promised that He would not put
more upon us than He would give us
strength to bear. My only comfort seemed
to be in reading my Bible and pouring out
my soul to my Creator. It seemed that
every time I read new proofs were given me
of the genuienness of the work in which I was
engaged. Though father and mother
and brothers, kindred and friends were
against me, yet in the Bible and humble
prayer I thought I had weapons with which
I could fight the world. I had something
dearer to me than all earthly things com-
bined.
		(To be continued.)


