U. W. P. C.
	The U. W. P. C. held its regular meet
ing in the EXPONENT office, June 30, 1900,
the president in the chair. Opening prayer
by Phebe C. Young. The secretary then
called the roll, members responding with
quotations from Tennyson.
	The 6th of July had been set apart by
the clubs of the city for an outing to the
Lake for the benefit of the Free Kinder-
garten. The president of the club council
being out of town the council had not been
called. The club discussed the best way of
carrying it through successfully. Luella
Rhodes moved and Emma J. McVicker
seconded that the club have an excursion to
the Lake Friday, July 6, and all the mem-
bers do what they could to make it a suc-
cess—carried.
	Luella Rhodes then reported the work
done in the Domestic Science School. The
school opened on the 25th of June, with a
membership of twenty-six.
	The president reported from the Feder-
ation meeting which was held at Mrs.
Plummer’s. Each club member was taxed
ten cents for the Federation to be held next
October.
	Mrs. Hyde, the delegate from the Press
Club to arrange for Field day at the Lake,
asked for instructions from the clnb. It
was decided to hold a special meeting be-
fore then to decide permanently what we
would do.
	The program was then carried out as
follows:
	Emma J. McVicker gave a very com-
prehensive review of the book entitled,

[Column 2]
“Red Pottage,” written by Miss Mary
Cholmondeley. She considered it a finished
work, which is not true of most books.
When the author pictured up, in some
cases vividly, the faults of the different
characters she portrays, she shows the
reader something to admire in them. Mrs.
McVicker considered the time well spent in
reading the book,
	Dr. Pratt read a poem entitled “A
Legend,’’ by Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron,
and Grace Anderson read a poem entitled
“Is Jesus Immortal,” by Mrs. Mary Jane
Tanner.
	On account of Field day being our next,
meeting day the club decided to hold the
next meeting on July 30. The minutes
were read and with a few remarks approved.
Closing prayer by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
