A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	Our three eldest daughters have children
under their tuition. They almost feel the
responsibilities of mothers. It is a task
equal to taming wild animals. Our third
daughter, Lois, has a little girl eight years
of age, as near as we can judge, her parents
do not know. Her father is a half-breed
Frenchman. A sweeter tempered child I
never knew, always submissive to the re-
quirements of her teachers, and easily per-
suaded to leave off all her unpleasant habits.
I should consider it a great loss of labor and
mental exertion to leave her behind when
we go from here, and allow her to fall
back to her native state and forget all we
have taught her. Ellen has wrought a
visible change in the two she has under her
care.
	Oh, what wonders might be wrought in
the training of these children! Who
would not be content to be buried from the
world to effect it?
	Occasionally I have a leisure day, and
not having much variety in my reading, I
read even my old letters, which my mother
and sisters sent me years ago. The sad
remembrance of days of sorrow came vivid-
ly before me, and I wept—a rare occurence
with me. Sister C. said she did not like to
read old letters, it brought back memories
which gave her pain. But with myself it
is an established habit to review the past,
and live my life over. It seems sublime
and sacred, though it should cause sighs
and tears.
	Brother Crosby has at length succeeded
in delivering a discourse in the Tahitian,
much to the understanding of his hearers.
In the evening service several native breth-
ren came to me for comments on the vision
of Daniel. In my broken manner I talked
of the “Ancient of Days,” told them how
it was explained by Elders in the Church.
They understood my words, and were satis-
fied.
	The “House of Prayer,” as the natives
call it, is the most comfortable place on the
Island, built as it is over water, six large
windows on each side, with slats instead of
glass and sash, to be thrown open or closed
to suit high or low breezes.
		(To be continued.)


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

