[Column 1]
		A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands, 
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	November 26. The weather is intoler-
ably dry and the fleas are like the plague in
Egypt. Sister Crosby suffers terribly from
their bites poisoning her blood. Yesterday
we made a party at the residence of Brother
C. F. Grouard, for the purpose of showing
his native wife our method or habit of
waiting on company. We told them what
our design was, that we would help them
do the cooking. They were pleased and
prepared a good supper. We furnished
dishes to set the table and instructed them
how to deport themselves. They en-
deavored to imitate us as much as possible,
and we had a merry time. In the evening
the house being fitted up to look attractive,
we had two instruments of music, besides 
the sweet voices of the native women. Mr.
Grouard seemed quite proud that his wife 
had acquitted herself so much to the satis-
faction of her visitors. We feasted on

[Column 2]
melons at the close of the party, the finest
ever raised on the Island.
	November 29. This morning we arose
early and to our joyful surprise heard the
Ravavai was in sight, which we had not
expected for several days. Brother James
Brown was on board, a prisoner by order of
the French government. When the schooner
landed in Tahiti he was in prison living on
bread and water. He was discharged with-
out a trial on condition that he would re-
main a prisoner on the vessel till conveyed
from out the bounds of the French protec-
rate. The Queen of Tubuai sent on board
and brought him on shore. He appeared
in good spirits, and intends going to Rava-
vai, or to some Islands not under the
French flag. The ship brought glorious
news. I could not sleep the first night,
so great was my excitement. Employment
now for several days answering the wel-
come letters.
	The queen is a thinking woman. She
mourns over the ignorance of her people,
and her own also. They are good readers
and could they have books printed in their
own language and adapted to their capa-
bilities, what inspiration it would give
themto acquire knowledge.
	I have been reading the history of Eng-
land in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. I
would admire her character but for the one
foul blot, the execution by her consent of
Mary Queen of Scotts. Oh, how mysteri-
ous the transactions of men appear in their
political and religious superstitious.
	A prominent young woman is sick whom
I have visited. She needs treatment of
some kind, and all the medicine I have is a
bundle of hops and a little sage. I use the
herbs and encourage the sisters to have
faith in their efficacy. I find their faith
effective in many instances. An elderly
woman came to me in the night and wished
me to go and see a sister of hers who was
very sick. I arose from my bed and went
with her. She led me through a dark,
woody place, over an intricate path, but I
feared nothing. I prayed and laid my
hands on the sick woman. I told her she
should be better in the morning, and so it
proved. “According to thy faith be it unto
you.” Consecrated oil, which we brought
with us from home, has been blessed to
their use often, all on account of the faith
they have in it.
	Ellen succeeds admirably in expounding
the scriptures to their understanding, show-
ing her knowledge of the Bible and the
Book of Mormon, far exceeding my highest
anticipations. Frances sometimes appears
discontented, uttering ejuculations like
this: “Oh, that I were in Salt Lake City
today!” I ask: “Would you like to be
there with no father to provide wood aud
other comforts we have here?” By recall-
ing reminiscences of the past she answers
in the negative. I feel sensibly the sacri- 
fice it is to our daughters to be without
good society.
	December 1. The rain is at last begin- 
ning to descend. We hail it as a welcome
messenger. How the streams will rise and
everything be refreshed. The vessel
was all ready yesterday morning for another
sail. Suddenly the wind sprang up from
another quarter, which will detain it an in-
definite time. Mr. Grouard thinks he has
more perplexities than any man on the Is-
land, having charge of the vessel besides
other duties, involves him in seeming diffi-
culties, and some real ones. The native

[Column 3]
sisters trouble him, having little judgment
about their business. He is tired and home
sick, and has reason to be so.
	For the first time the House of Prayer
has been cleaned, the seats scoured with
sand, a new business to the natives. When
completed they seemed delighted at its ap-
pearance. I told them it must be cleaned
every month, that the Lord would be the
better pleased with us for a strict observance
of cleanliness. The appointed time is the
Saturday preceding the sacrament of the
Lord’s supper.
	The 13th day. Profound stillness ex-
cept when I hear the mallets of the old
women pounding bark to make cloth. The
vibration of the beam on which they pound
is like a drum; it breaks the monotony and
is preferable to no noise at all. In Brother
Crosby’s dwelling, where we often resort at
evening, we can hear music: Ellen with the
flutina, Alma Crosby with the violin, and
his father playing the flute. It is far from
being inferior, though not perfect.
	The 18th day. This morning the Ravai
left the harbor with a fair wind for Ravai-
vai. Brother James Brown bade us fare-
well.

	We are anxiously expecting the
Ravai, and with her the children hope to
see their father. Joyful anticipation!
Captain Grouard has had a son born since
he sailed. There was great excitement
among the friends, all interested were in-
vited to be on the spot to welcome the new
comer as soon as it might be presentable.
At such times the woman, as soon as the
birth is over, is taken to the river and im-
mersed; she is never known to take cold.
Some females after giving birth to offspring
go into decline aud never recover. It does
not. however, appear to result from their
common usages, as they generally do well-
Nature does all for them. Happy would it
be for our women if they were allowed to do
more.
	The 24th. Today I cleaned house and
made preparations for Christmas. The
native sisters are preparing food. They
praise my house when they see it clean,
but do not incline to clean their own. I
encourage them by telling them that the
Lord is better pleased when we keep our-
selves neat and clean. That if we do not,
we must not expect angels will visit us,
for they do not take delight in those who
are filthy.
	The 25th. We commenced Christmas
by trimming up the house with green
boughs and flowers. In the centre of the
room a large pillar supports the roof. By
the side of it I placed two small ito trees of
the most vivid green, extending almost to
the roof, the native houses have no lofts.
To these I attached the long yellow tea
leaves of which the women make wreathes
on account of their bright color and pleas-
ant flower. Added to these, the bright,
fresh flowers of the bouraw scattered about
among the branches, forming a pleasing
contrast of tints, green and yellow.
	In the same manner over head and around
the entire room I hung boughs, flowers
and branches of the limetree with the fruit
on. Our most intimate friends prepared
for us a splendid dinner, to which they
were invited, bringing the food to the
mission house. I told them the object was
to celebrate the birthday of our Savior, and
they seemed pleased.
			(To be continued.)


