in some of us a sort of heredity, perhaps,
that makes us cling with loving and long-
ing to the haunts of nature in which child-
hood has been passed. The time of year
may make some difference in one’s feelings
and the springtime with its buds and early

[Column 2]
blossoms is especially significant of youth,
as well as of beauty in the landscape.
	Journeying from New York, with its
noise and bustle, up through the Connecti-
cut valley and into the heart of New Eng-
land among the beautiful villages nestled
among the green hills is charming in itself
as a delightful ride; and all along the way
one appreciates the quiet that seems so rest-
ful when coming from the hurry and worry
of the modern Gotham, to where time seems
almost to stand still.
	The trees so dear, so fresh in early leaf!
(trees are almost companions to me) and
the brooks so musical and all the blossom-
ing shrubbery on every hand awakens such
tenderness that one must needs be careful
not to betray emotion. Feelings are so in-
tense at such times that one lives richly in
the luxury of nature for the passing
moments, and can scarcely believe how
time passes: the air is full of sweetness and
the hum of insects on the wing and the
bird-songs mingle with the murmur of the
lazy brooklets that glide so smoothly over
the pebbly beds and seem to tell of the hills
from which they come, as in passing one
does exchange a word of greeting, perchance
with even a stranger.
	The day was delightfully warm and the
glowing life imparted by the warm sunshine
and the unalloyed joy of every note in the
melody of nature gave one a serene repose-
fulness that was not unlike a pleasant dream.
Such hours absorb the soul and fill it with
an infinite charm. One could not help feel-
ing the truth of Wordsworth’s lines on such
a day:
	“All bright and glittering in the smokeless air,
		Never did sun more beautifully steep
	In his first splendor, valley, rock or hill.
		Ne’er saw I, never felt a calm so deep!
	The river glideth at its own sweet will,
		Dear God! the very houses seem asleep
	And all that mighty heart is lying still.”
	Flowers and trees and the long tangled
grass are all a part of the pano-
rama. Trees appeal to me with a
power and significance so wonderful that I
can find no words to give expression to the
sentiment. The leaves have a meaning we
have never interpreted, there is a grandeur
about even the gnarled and rugged oaks,
that have withstood the storms of centuries
and remained unmoved, as it were, through
long periods of change.
		“The groves were God’s first temples,”
	This is a theme so delightful that one
would fain linger leisurely over it, but in
this practical, busy life one must tell some-
thing, or the impatient, busy man or
woman of the world will pass it by. We
forget when we are ourselves absorbed that
other people are not so overcharged with
sentimentality.
	Arriving at one of the most picturesque
country villages in the old Bay State,
the welcome given me was of the same
stately fashion of the olden time, and one
could easily imagine time had gone back-
ward. Yet there were railroads everywhere
and electric cars, bicycles and all the
modern electrical agencies in operation,

[Column 3]
but none of the brusqueness and feverish
excitement of the West.
	The gentleness of manner, the mildness
of expression and the sweetness of tone, all
harmonize with the beauty of the hills and
groves and brooks of which the poets have
sung thro’ the century.
	But one hastens on from place to place
to take just a look at familiar scenes
of the long ago, and as neither trains nor
streetcars run in out of the way places one
must have a carriage, so with a surrey (not
an “old-fashioned shay”) five of us rode
through half a dozen sleeping villages,
nestled down among those dear old hills.
What a wonderful ride that was, one never
to be forgotten, and how we all plied Sister
Pallas with questions about this place and
that and how many times I said to her,
“dear, you ought to know, for you have
been here all these years and I have been so
far away.” The once familiar scenes
brought old memories long since stored
away in some remote corner of the brain,
but not lost, for they come back with such
force that they almost awaken the old
echoes among the hills. We went up and
down and round about, gazing into the
ponds where the water-lilies grew, and
where we went rowing and skating, long
ago, and plunging into groves of the sweet-
scented hemlock, stopping at the same old
schoolhouses where we were taught when
children, and the meeting house with its
long rows of stalls for the horses at the
back, standing just as they did of yore, but
inside the Church was remodelled, the high
pulpit and cushioned pews with doors, had
been taken out and the gallery where we
used to sing from the old Watt’s hymn
book, when the choir leader used a tuning
fork. Now the whole appearance is modern;
but we wandered about and finally to the
home I left when starting for Nauvoo: the
place desolate, the well still the same, tho’
the old sweep had gone within the last few
years, but the neighbors still think it the
best and purest water in the village: the
brook near the well and the old home, still
runs through the hemlock groves, where
on the first day of March when a hole had
been cut in the solid ice, I went down into
the water and was baptized, the last and the
youngest of eight who received that or-
dinance of the Gospel on that day.
	The apple trees were budding into bloom
and the magnificent juniper tree which has
been the home of the humming bird for
three score years, still stands in the front
yard in its stately pride.
	The roses and lilac bushes were all gone
and only a few herbs in the kitchen garden
have lived like the trees without care.
Deserted and desolate are many of the
homes from which the Latter-day Saints
emigrated to Nauvoo early in the Forties.
	The many that we knew were nearly all
gone, the family Doctor who lived next
door with only a lane between our houses,
has gone to his rest; the minister’s house
just beyond, black with age like many
more; the old Academy with its grove of
pines, has been better kept, the boys still
play ball on the common. We drive on to-


wards another village, and espy some dis-
tance from the road the Pond House, where
many. Mormon meetings were held and we
plainly discern the pond where a great many
baptisms were performed in the years ’41
and ’42 The house, the farm and the
pond belonged to Stillman Pond who died 
some years ago in Cache Valley, and who
has left a large posterity to honor his name,
the grandfather of Sister Almira Merrill,
wife of (Apostle M. W. Merrill) and great
grandfather of Professor Joseph Merrill,
of the Utah University. One of his young-
er sons is president of Bannock Stakes of
Zion in Idaho, and one or more are now
filling missions abroad. From this part of
Massachusetts come also the Woodbury’s,
well known for their zeal in the Gospel, the
Haskells, the Aikens, the Pomeroys and
others who have been true and faithful in
the Church.
	We drove to Whitemore’s corner,
where Sister Pallas had said “good bye” to
our blessed mother when she forsook her
home she loved so well, her children dearer
than life itself, and with the three youngest
began the long and then tedious journey to
Nauvoo, bidding those she left behind the
last Farewell though she knew it not, for
her faith was great, and her hopes were
bright.
