[Column 1]
DISCERNMENT.
	John said in one of his epistles, “Beloved
believe not every spirit, but try the spirits
whether they are of God.” In this same
epistle of the twelve disciples we read much
of love and is not the world to be redeemed
by love? How could our missionaries en-
dure? How could they be successful if it
were not for the love of the souls they go to
redeem?
	When I belonged to a certain faction of
Mormons, I heard many sermons on author-
ity. I used to get tired, it seemed like a
sing-song, almost, to me sometimes, and
though I could not have gone back to
Methodism any more than I could have
been contented after using the gas light, to
read by the light of a candle, yet some-
times I used to think it would be a change
to hear a sermon on the love and example
of Christ. The spirit within me did not
seem to testify as to the truth of that part
of the doctrine. I received that faction
just as I would a higher class of sectarians;
a class who possessed a greater light be-
stowed upon them by our beloved
prophet, Joseph Smith. I have asked the
question sometimes, “Was it not because
they themselves had usurped the authority?”
	Sometimes when I would think of it, it
would remind me of what a sister who be-
longed to this faction told me. Her father
had been a coal miner. They were good
people, noble souls, but had been taught
wrong principles. She told me that her
father was a very high tempered man and
had always insisted on convincing his fam-
ly that he was the head of his house, and
the method he used was by knocking them
down with his fist whenever they differed
with him. Many of the people of this work
possess in a measure the discernment of
spirits. They judge us by our works they
judge the tree by its fruits, and did not
Jesus say, so we read in John 13th chapter
35th verse: “By this shall all men know
that ye are my disciples, if ye love one to
another.”
	I have heard some people say of certain
persons, “such a one is such a gentle spirit,
it seems impossible for him to do wrong.”
And it will be impossible for him while he
keeps the love of God within him. We
know by experience that certain spirits
follow certain spirits to try to overcome
them. A man or woman who speaks out
all he or she feels, regardless of how he
or she hurts or wounds, is far happier, I
think, than the one who treasures hard
feelings for want of courage or the desire
to make things right. Before we sought
after a reconciliation between us and our
heavenly Father; before we sought a change
of heart, if any one wounded us, though
we did not treasure malice, yet we pre-
ferred those who did would take a different
course, we preferred to have nothing more
to do with them, but after enjoying the
love of God we feel that we should en-
courage a forgiving spirit, for “to err is
human, to forgive divine.” If a gentle spirit
is converted and has not experienced a
change of heart, it is possible if hardness of
heart possesses them that if they do not get

[Column 2]
the spirit of forgiveness, it is possible that
hatred and revenge may overcome them.
Hatred if nursed may bring out imagina-
tions that look something worse than vipers.
it is not heaven to live with a person who
is not willing to make things right by
improving their faults or getting rid of their
wrong feelings.
	How necessary it is that we possess the
love of God in our souls. “Do not let the
sun go down upon your wrath,” we read
in Eph., 4th chapter and 26th verse. Let
love reign in your hearts. Mothers, do
not let the spirit of revenge nestle in your
bosoms, if you do your child may bear the
marks of that weakness. Let the words of
our Savior ring in our ears and live in our
bosoms, “Little children love one another.”
