[Column 1]
CURRENT EVENTS.
	To crowd the events of a month’s hap-
penings into brief space seems almost an
impossibility. Every day finds the news-
papers filled with accounts of storms, rail-
road accidents, strikes, wars, crimes—in
fact, calamities of every kind, too numerous
to mention.
	Heading the list comes the appalling

[Column 2]
and most heartrending misfortune to the
people of Texas. On September 8 the
city of Galveston was visited by one of the
most terrific storms ever known in this
country. This dreaded hurricane, so ter-
rible in velocity, so destructive in its path,
carrying into the Gulf many thousands of
lives, destroying millions of dollars of
property, was one never to be forgotten.
Every state, every hamlet, sorrows with
Galveston. The shock of the news is still
with us, but hundreds of thousands of
hands are reaching out to help them.
There seems so little to say and so much to
do. Miss Clara Barton and her little band
of faithful workers were, as usual, among
the first to reach the afflicted city. Too
much cannot be said for this noble cause,
the Red Cross, and its untiring workers, al-
ways ready and willing to alleviate the suf-
ferings of their fellow creatures.
	While there are men who think that a
sand island, exposed to storms from the
gulf, will never prove a suitable site for a
great city, the prevailing opinion seems to
be that solidity in construction and proper
sea walls will make the new Galveston
safe, and that its present site is so pecularily
adapted to commerce, that there should be
no thought of abandoning it.
	The presidential campaign is now in full
sway. The headquarters of both papers
are sending out men true to their respective
parties, who tell us the beautiful doctrine
of their party, all of which we are to con-
sume, digest, and last, but not least, vote
upon.
	The distinguished Governor of New
York, and Republican nominee for vice-
president, Mr. Theo. Roosevelt, honored
our beautiful city with a visit during the
month. He was royally entertained and
welcomed, and departed with words of
praise and gratitude for the people of the
liberal-hearted West.
	Several unfortunate holdups took place in
our city. One life was lost, but fortunately
the desperadoes are safely lodged behind the
bars.
	The Goebel murder case still heads the
docket of the Kentucky courts. One man
was sentenced to life imprisonment, one to
death and the trials of all others implicated
in this cowardly crime will fellow in quick
succession.
	The great Anthracite coal strike, by
which 140,000 men were out of employment
has fair prospects of being agreeably settled.
	In California the second week in September
was signalized by the celebration of the
50th anniversary of the state’s admission to
the Union. There were impressive military
parades, naval parades and other festivities,
continuing four days.
	So much noble work has been under-
taken of late along philanthropic lines. I
read with pleasure recently of ladies in
Brooklyn and other Eastern cities starting
free libraries during the summer in parks,
whereby our less fortunate sisters and
brothers had access to books and current
literature while seated under the shade of
trees sheltered from the hot rays of the sun.
Such work is truly noble and commendable.

[Column 3]
	Direct communication between the
United States and Germany was opened
September 1, the route being from New
York to Fayal, thence to Emdew, Ger- 
many. The occasion was signalized by the
exchange of cordial greetings between the
Emperor of Germany and President
McKinley.
	The war in South Africa is now virtually
at an end. Kruger has emigrated and is
now enroute to some foreign port.
	In the Phillipines the situation remains
about the same, continuous gorilla warfare
characterizes the existing state at the pres-
ent time.
	The Chinese situation is more complex
than ever. War clouds are gathering thick
and fast over the far East.
	In concluding this brief review of the
month’s events, I cannot refrain from re-
iterating the sentiments expressed by our
writer of last month’s events, that the day
is not far distant ere the white flag of truce
may float over the land; that men and
nations may live in peace and harmony,
united with the world, united with each
other.
