EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Potter Palmer will entertain dur-
ing the Paris Exposition in the house of
the Marquis de Montgomery, near the
Trocadero, which she has rented. It is
said that she is paying for it $4,000 a
month rental.
	The anniversary of the birthday of
President Brigham Young is being cele-
brated today, June 1. The children of the
city have brought beautiful flowers in
great abundance with which the statue of
the great pioneer and the monument are
being festooned and garlanded; bands are
playing and cannons have been fired by
the veteran artillery men early this morn-
ing. Services in the Tabernacle are a part
of the program, including an address by
President Lorenzo Snow, and in the after-
noon an excursion to Saltair, in which the
public are invited to participate. This is
one of the notable days for Utah when
they delight to honor this great pioneer
and leader, certainly one of the foremost
men of the nineteenth century.


Mrs. Martha G. Wells, mother of the
Governor, gave a Kensington at their resi-
dence on First Street, on Friday, May
18, from two to six p. m. About sixty
ladies, mostly intimate friends and relatives,
were present. The handsome rooms were
artistically decorated with roses, carnations
and choice flowers, and the elegantly
dressed ladies with their gaily colored
embroidery and needlework, made a bril-
liant picture, the brisk flow of conversa-
tion, the greeting of old friends and the
hearty good feeling that pervaded the
company was most enjoyable. Delicious
refreshments were daintily served and the
afternoon seemed only too short for such a
happy gathering.
	The D. R. Society gave a musical on
Monday evening, May 28, at the residence
of Mrs W. J. Beatie, for the benefit of the
Scofield sufferers. The large and com-
modious parlors were beautifully decorated
with the stars and stripes and the D. R.
colors, blue and buff, and lovely flowers
made the place fragrant with sweetest per-
fume. Helds band played choice national
selections on the lawn which was brilliant
for the occasion with electric lights.
General Charles Burton was Master of
Ceremonies, and the young and talented
Arthur Shepherd took charge of the piano,
playing the accompaniments for the sing-
ers, which the ladies felt was a very great
favor. Mrs. Willard Croxall rendered a
song in French and also one in English.
Miss Mabel Cooper, whose name is well
known in Salt Lake, also favored the com-
pany with one of her finest pieces, and Mr.
Walter Wallace, who has a fine bass voice,
also sang one of his best solos. Refresh-
ments were served to all guests, and the
ladies of the society feel the affair was a
success both socially and financially.


