SOUTH AFRICAN SITUATION.
(Read at the U. W. P. C., August 31, 1900.)
Madame Chairman and Ladies:
	In commencing my paper upon the
situation in South Africa, I shall have to
give you a long synopsis of the Transvaal
and Orange Free State. Since two years
ago, when Lord Kitchener crushed the
Dervishes at Khartoum the all absorbing
topic has been the war between the Boers
and the British in South Africa. 
	The early history of the Boers of South
Africa has its parallel in that of the Pil-
grims who landed on Plymouth Rock. When
the boat load of pilgrims left England to
come to America and found the freedom
they sought, a number of Dutch and
Huguenots, refugees from France, departed
from Holland about the same time for
similar reasons, and decided to seek their
fortune and religious freedom at the Cape
of Good Hope.
	The experiences of the two colonies were
somewhat similar. Our Pilgrim Fathers
had the Indians, and the Dutch had the
Hottentots and Bushmen to contend with.
	Notwithstanding all their trials and
tribulations everything was very favorable
with the Boers until France was obliged to
cede to England the South African settle-
ment which had been acquired with the
annexation of Holland. Even then the
settlers believd their deliverance from
tyranny had arrived, but their hopes were
only short lived. The British ruled the
colony as they had been taught in London,
and allowed no local impediment to swerve
them from their course.
	The Boer settlers had opinions of their
own and bitterly opposed the British rule.
if England had been wise in her maneuvre
and understood the country and people bet-
ter, and had been careful to send out only
sensible and sympathetic men there would
probably never have been any trouble.
	She insisted on the use of the English
language; she altered the system of the
court and local government, reducing the
rights which the people enjoyed.
	In 1853 the Boers, (the Boer means
farmer or peasant) sacrificed their farms at
whatever price they could secure and emi-

[Column 2]
grated to the Orange Free State. The
English told them if they left they could
expect nothing from them nor help. In
1854 the Boers had such a desperate battle
with the Matabele that they implored Eng-
land for assistance, but in vain. The Boers
were then compelled to establish a govern-
ment of their own, which is today em-
bodied in that of the Orange Free State.
	Since that memorable day when the
British flag was hauled down from the flag
staff at Bloemfontein fort, the British and
Boers have not been very friendly, and the
British regret that their flag is absent from
the fort. The Boers will yield their lives
before they will allow it to be raised again.
Nowhere in the world is the American re-
public admired so much outside of its
own country as in South Africa. Both the
Transvaal and Orange Free State constitu-
tions are patterned after the United States.
South Africa is a modified counterpart of the
United States. It differs in some features
but has the same general foundation.
	The president is elected for five years
and oversees the Executive Council which
constitutes the real government. The Ex-
ecutive Council consists of three heads of
departments and six unofficial members of
the First Raad. These nine officials are the
authors of all laws, treaties and policies that
are proposed to the Volkraad. There are
two Volkraads, the first like our Senate, the
second like our House of Representatives,
but with far less power.
	The First Raad consists of 27 members,
elected for and by the people, and they must
be born in the country. A naturalized
Boer is ineligible to the Upper House. The
popular opinion is that a naturalized citizen
takes less interest in the affairs of the coun-
try. The First Raad was established in
1835, the Second Raad in 1890. This was
in order that the Uitlanders might have
representation in the affairs of the govern-
ment. All members are obliged to wear
black clothes and white ties.
	All court proceedings are conducted in
the Dutch language and none but Dutch
speaking lawyers are admitted to practice at
the bar.
	The Boer of today is a man who loves
solitude above all things. He and his
ancestors have enjoyed the chief spirit of
the early settlers of South Africa for so long
that it is his greatest delight to be let alone.
	Physically the Boers are a superior race—
the roving existence, the life in the open
air and the freedom from cares, all combine
to make the Boers almost physically perfect.
They can stand any amount of pain and
discomforture and can live for a remarkably
long time on the smallest quantity of food.
A Boer can subsist on a five pound piece of
“Biltong” (beef that has been dried in the
sun until it is as hard as a stone) for ten or
fifteen days without suffering any pangs of
hunger. In time of war “Biltong” is the
principal diet in army rations.
	The religion of the Boers is one of their
chief characteristics; it comes first and is
uppermost in their thoughts. The Old
Testament is the pattern he strives to fol-
low. He reads from its pages every day, and
when he wishes to exchange cattle with his
neighbor or give his daughter in marriage
lie consults the Old Testament and finds
therein the advice that is applicable to the
situation. The State controls the church
and again the church controls the State. It
is necessary for a man to become a factor in
religious affairs before he can become of any
political importance. The Dutch reformed

[Column 3]
church has been the State church since
1835. The Heroonnde Dopper branch of
the church is a result of a disagreement in
1883 over the singing of hymns during re-
ligious service. The Doppers led by Oom
Paul peacefully withdrew, and started a
congregation of their own, and the more
progressive faction proceeded to sing hymns,
which the Doppers declared was extremely
worldly.
	The great festival in the Boer’s calendar
is that of Nachtmaal or Communion, which
is generally held in Pretoria the latter part
of the year. It behooves every Boer to
journey to the capital once a year to partake
of Communion. Pretoria then becomes the
Mecca of all Boers, the pretty little village
is filled to overflowing with pilgrims their
wagons and cattle. Those living in the re-
mote part of the country are obliged to start
several weeks before the “Nachtmaal” in
order to be there at the appointed time.
In many instances the journey to and from
requires six weeks. They camp in the
open square in the center of town surrouud-
ing the old brick church, which to them is
the most sacred edifice in the world.
	Transvaal and South Africa without a
description of Stephanus Johannes Paules
Kruger, would be like the play of Hamlet
with Hamlet left out. Kruger is a man of
absolutely no education, although he has
applied his inherent abilities so as to he able
to acquit himself of his high office in a
manner to be envied by many who have
enjoyed a hundred times as many ad-
vantages. Since his youth he has been a
leader among the countrymen. His person-
ality is most unique: he impresses one as
being a king in the garb of a farmer; a
genius in a dunce cap; an awkward country-
man in store clothes, with a silk hat in-
tended for some one else; his coat is far too
small to meet around his corpulent body and
his trousers seem to have a natural antipathy
for his shoes. He is uncouth in his manner,
is suspicious of every stranger and every-
body. He is slow to make friends, but once
he trusts a person, volumes of proof are
neceesary before he alters his opinion. He
never forgets a good deed and never par-
dons a man who does a bad one.
	Although the majority of his countrymen
are of Dutch or Hueguenots ancestory, he is
a German. His paternal ancestors emigrated
to South Africa in 1713. Paul was born
October 10, 1825. His remarkable vitality
and capacity for hard mental labor are the
results of the great care which he has be-
stowed upon himself and the regular habits
he has followed for twenty years. He rises
at half past five every morning and follows
a daily program from which he never de-
viates unless he is away from home. He is a
speechmaker of ordinary ability; he speaks
without preparation, indulges in no flights
of oratory, uses plain language that is
understood by all. His speech is in the
Taal dialect, which bears the same relation
to the Dutch language as the low German
does to the high German. This war has
been a terrible strain on his nervous
vitality and he has been obliged to forego
the habits of a lifetime. Instead of retiring
at seven o’clock it has often been one or two
in the morning. So exhausted has he been
that it is with difficulty that he has climbed
to his bed. I say climbed, for he has an
ancient Dutch bed which came from Hol-
land with the first Jacob Kruger. This bed
is five feet from the floor and is reached by
a stairway.
			(To be continued.)


