	DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION. 
                                               
                     (Concluded.)

	Liberty Bell, which bears the inscription:
“Proclaim Liberty throughout the land to
all the inhabitants thereof.”   And as I
stood by the old bell the words of the dear
old poem came back to my mind:

[Column 2]
	    That old state-house bell is silent,
		Hushed is now its iron tongue,
	    But the spirit it awakened,
		Still is living, ever young.
	    And while we greet the smiling sunlight.
		On the Fourth of each July,
	    We will not forget the bell, 
		Which twixt heaven and earth,
	     Rang out loudly, Independence!
		Which, please God, shall never die !”

	The next place visited was the Betsy
Ross House, the birthplace of “Old
Glory.”   From here we went to Christ’s
Church, a most historic spot; for many
prominent people—among them General
Washington, Franklin and the Penn family
—used to worship here.    The Continental
Congress appointed July 20, 1775, as a day
for prayer and fasting, and as a body at-
tended this church, and after Independence
bell ceased ringing on July 4, 1776, the
chimes of this church caught up the strain
and rang out the message anew.
	The last place visited on Tuesday morn-
ing was old St. Peter’s Church, where
Washington used to attend service. There
are many old interesting inscriptions and
tablets, one of the most important of which
is erected by the Pennsylvania Sons of the
Revolution, in honor of Captain William
Shippen, who was killed at the battle of
Princetown January 3, 1777.
	On Tuesday afternoon a most elaborate
breakfast was given the retiring delegates
by the General Society D. R. I will again
refer you to Miss Sterling and Miss Snow for
a very complete account of that delightful
event, for they have both told it so well.
	Wednesday, April 26, we went to Valley
Forge, and I am sure it was a day never to
be forgotten by any of us. We were met at
the Valley Forge R. R. Station by large
coaches in which we were driven all over
the historic spots.    Captain I. Heston
Todd, who owns the greater part of Valley
Forge, led the party and pointed out and
explained the points of interest. We know
that the American army went into camp at
this place on the 19th of December, 1777.
and remained there until June 19, 1778.
This is an excellent place for an encamp-
ment, as the natural features of the country
would enable the entrenchments to be made
very strong. The Schuylkill river bounds
it on one side, Valley Creek—a large
stream—on the other. These two streams
really take such a course as to encircle
Valley Forge on three sides, the other side
is protected by the earth works, planned by
one of Lafayette’s aid de camps. Modern
engineers are puzzled by some of the fea-
tures in these earth works. General
Washington’s headquarters are at the point
where the Schuylkill and Valley creek flow
nearest together.  Fort Washington is
directly opposite the Schuylkill, and the
headquarters of Lafayette and General
Knox were at the end nearest Valley creek,
while those of General Wayne were at the
other extremity of the Fort. Fort Hunt-
ingdon is almost directly opposite Wash-
ington’s and Wayne's headquarters, so that
the four headquarters really represent the
four extremities of the army encampment.
	Nothing remains of the Forts except the


