THE MOTHERS' CONGRESS.
	The Third annual session of the Mothers’
Congress convened in the Assembly Hall at
10 o’clock a. m., May 18. Those present
were bright, representative women
	The speakers’ stand was beautifully dec-
orated with flowering plants and jardinieres
filled with snowballs, making a bright
picture.
	The meeting in the morning opened with
prayer by Mrs. M. Isabella Horne and fol-
lowing this the president, Mrs Nellie Little,
read a note from Mrs. Antoinette Kinney,
tendering her resignation as recording
secretary of the Congress. The resignation
being accepted, Mrs. Augusta Grant nomi-
nated Mrs. Ella Stewart, who was elected
to fill the vacancy.
	President Nellie Little then read an ad-
dress: ‘‘The Utah Mothers’ Congress has
met this morning to hold its third annual
meeting, since its organization a little more
than two years ago, a gradual interest in the
work has been awakened.
	“At the previous annual meetings held
in ’98 and ’99, the promoters of the
good cause in Utah were fortunate in se-
curing as speakers eminent women from the
East. They, with our citizens men and
women, talked on subjects relating to the
nature, the home and the parent of the
child. At this present annual meeting the
subjects will be treated by residents of
Utah, and with the past two years’ exper-
ience as a guide we feel confident that the
Congress now in session will be a success.
	“The scope embraced by the Mothers’
club is a wide one; unlimited, unrestricted.
While some organizations of women are
established solely for literary, social or
philanthropic purposes, mothers’ clubs may
properly consider any subject pertaining to
the condition of the human family.
	“Where the surroundings of children are
undesirable and create immoral tendencies
the co-operation of the mothers in changing
the condition is very effectual. The true
mother will consider the welfare, not only
of her own child alone, but will be inter-
ested in improving the condition of all chil-
dren in her locality. The woman who
takes into her heart her own children may
be a very ordinary woman, says the novel-
ist, but she who takes into her heart the
children of others, is one of God’s mothers.
The mother, too, receives her immediate
reward in helping to improve the condition
of the youth in her community, for what-
ever elevates the moral standard of children
collectively will elevate the standard of the
individual child.
	“Here in the west she has greater power
than her sister in the east. She can vote
for men to go into office who will make just
laws, laws which favor the many and not
the few, and influence and modify legisla-
tion to the good of the community.
	“Woman’s influence on the child, on the
home and on society, is recognized and
truly appreciated by our fathers, brothers
and husbands. A minister well known in
 our city has been quoted thus: ‘A child
may get along with an inferior kind of a
father, but God pity him if he has a poor
excuse for a mother.’ It is these poor ex-
cuses of mothers that the Mothers’ Club
should endeavor to aid. They are not al-
ways poor excuses intentionally, but through
ignorance, through lack of education. They
received no training, no teaching in their
youth for the responsible position of parent-
[-]ood, in consequence of which they have
no system, no standard to guide them in
the training of their own children.
	“The work of mothers’ clubs is devoted
to the good and elevation of others. Very
seldom is self-culture the primary object.
Necessarily the mothers are benefited by
their associating together, but their first
thought is to bestow a benefit on others,
their aim is wholly altruistic. If, as is
claimed, all the great evils of life have their
root in selfishness, mothers’ clubs with an
altruistic motive must accomplish results
just the reverse of evil. We do not expect
to revolutionize the existing order of things
but we can aid our fathers, brothers and
husbands in promoting a better condition
of society. If we do this, our efforts will
be rewarded "
	Mrs. Anderson led in the hymn, “Nearer
my God.to Thee.”

