[Column 1]
WESTEL WILLOUGHBY GREENE.
	The gentleman above named was indeed
one of Nature’s noblemen. He was born
in Watertown, Jefferson County, New
York, August 28, 1819. There in his
native town he founded the “Jefferson
County Nursery,” the first industry of its
kind in that county.
	In his chosen occupation he excelled,
being a lover and student of nature, its
floral kingdom especially. He was noted
also for his strict integrity and prompt at-
tention to business.
	His father, Jacob Greene, was second
cousin to Nathaniel Greene, of Revolution-
ary fame, and brother to John P. Greene,
a prominent character in the early history
of the Latter-day Saints.
	The death of Westel W. Greene occurred
very suddenly at his home in Watertown,
N. Y., on the 8th of last March. The be-
reaved widow, Elizabeth Ingham Greene,
writes to relatives whom she visited here
in Salt Lake City some years ago in com-
pany with her husband. Mrs. Greene tells
of the beautiful life of her husband, so full
of cheery kindness that all who knew him,
children, animals and his floral pets, as
well as men and women, involuntarily
gave out to him the sweetness of love
which his influence ever evoked. Of their
visit to this city, which was in the winter
time, she writes:
	Many times have we talked over our visit with
you, and the kindness we received from all the
good people. He often wished that he could see
all his friends and the beautiful valley in summer.
He would say he wanted to see them all again
more than he ever did before he went there, the
People all seemed so good.

[Column 2]
	Besides the widow Mr. Greene left two
sons and two daughters to mourn his sud-
den departure.
	In concluding her letter, Mrs. Greene
writes:
	Dear cousin, these lines we found in a book in
which he kept some of his most choice writings.
I thought you would like to see them, they are dear
to me it is so like him. 
	Accompanying are the following beauti-
ful lines:
			“When I am dead
I would not have the rude and gaping crowd
Around me gather, and ’mid lamentations loud,
Tell of my virtues and with vain regret,
Bemoan my loss, and leaving me, so soon forget;
But I would have the few, the kindly heart, 
Who when misfortune came so nobly did their
	part,
And oft by thoughtful deed their love express—
These would I have, no more, no less—
			When I am dead!

			“When I am dead
I would not have the high and storied stone
Placed o’er my grave, and then be left alone: 
But I would have some living thing I once did
	love,
Ere I did leave the joyous world above,
Placed o’er me, and in each succeeding year
I’d have my friends renew them and oft linger near,
With loving thoughts upon the dear one laid be-
	low,
And talk of times departed long ago—
			When I am dead! 

			“When I am dead,
Forgive—O, this I pray for more than all—
The anguish I have caused—the deed beyond re-
	call!
Think kindly on me as I lay so cold, so still,
So poor a subject for thine angered ill.
Think of some generous deed, some good word
	spoken,
Of hearts bound up I found so sad and broken:
Think gently, when this last, long rest is mine,
And gaze upon my form with looks benign—
			When I am dead.
