R. S. REPORTS.
OAK CREEK ANNIVERSARY.
	Minutes of the Oak Creek Ward Relief
Society meeting, held March 17, 1900,
President Caroline E. Lyman presiding.
Singing by the choir. Prayer by Joseph
A. Lyman. Continued with singing.
	Bishop Peter Anderson made some
timely remarks. Song entitled “Daughters
of Zion, the Friends of the Poor,” by
Susan Finlinson, Rebecca Jacobson and
Annie L. Henderson. Stake President
Elizabeth Yates then spoke to us on our
duties as members of the society. Bishop
Yates, of Scipio, also made a few remarks,
and President Caroline E. Lyman spoke a
short time. Mary M. Lyman read the
minutes of the first Relief Society meeting
held in Nauvoo. Singing by the choir and
benediction by Brother George Finlinson.
	Refreshments were then served and a
nice, sociable time was enjoyed by all.
		ANNIE L. ANDERSON, Sec.
UTAH STAKE 
	On the 27th of April we held our quart-
erly conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake at Manilla Ward, near Pleasant
Grove. We had a fine time with a very
large atten[-]ance of brethren and sisters.
They made some changes in their Board of
Directors at their annual meeting in Feb-
ruary, which they will forward you in the
near future.
	Since the above date we have visited
Springville, Mapleton, Spanish Fork,
Salem and Payson. We had a profitable
time at each place, laying before the sis- 
ters their duties in the Reief Society as
members, and our obligations in this
Latter-day work, advising them to be
charitable and liberal, etc. Some are very
enthusiastic in building granaries to store
more wheat this coming season. There are
two new granaries in this county dedicated
to the Lord this year, and one nearly
finished and others anticipating to build in
the near future, by harvest time, if possi-
ble, and getting houses for meetings also
is their theme.
	I believe all are advancing in Relief
Society work and desire to learn more of
the work of the Lord. We are having
new bishopric in the Stake, hence new
Relief Society branches. A new Bishop
in the suburbs of Spanish Fork called upon
me inviting the presidency of the Relief
Society of this Stake to visit the new ward
to help organize a Relief Society in Leland
Ward. Brother Markham being Bishop, he
was present with his counselors. The
officers are: Maria Scoville, president;
Margaret Chishlom, first vice-president; Ruth
Bowen, Sarah Markham and Emma Cam-
mack, directors; Mrs Margaret Davis, Jer-
ome Jensen and Mary A. Thomas, trustees.
	They were very united on the nomina-
tions and I think they will work with en-
thusiasm. There has been several changes
in the Relief Society in the last annual
meeting which will be forwarded to you
shortly.
		Yours very respectfully,
