[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
WASATCH STAKE.
	The National Relief Society Conference
of Wasatch Stake convened in the Stake
house at Heber on Monday, May 28, at
10:30 a. m.. Meeting opened by singing
“Sweet is the work.” Prayer was offered
by Elder Joseph Moulton. Singing,
“With all my powers of heart and tongue.”
The officers’ roll was called, showing
twenty seven present.
	There were present on the stand Stake
President Annie R. Duke and her counsel-
ors, also officers representing the different
wards, which were all reported as being
generally in a flourishing condition.
	Instructive remarks were made by sister
Ann Murdock, Patriarch John Duke and
others.

[Column 2]
	At the afternoon session the annual re
port was read and accepted, after which the
time was well occupied by various speakers
on topics of interest, among the number
being Brother J. W. Rigdon, a son of Sid-
ney Rigdon, of Church history fame, who
spoke in a very interesting manner con-
cerning the testimony of his father in re-
lation to the Book of Mormon and the
Prophet Joseph Smith. Spoke of the in-
dustry of the Latter-day Saints which had
caused “the desert to blossom as the rose,”
and said they need have no fear of being
driven from their homes in the mountains as
long as they were faithful in keeping the
commandments of the Lord. President
Hatch and counselors and T. H. Giles each
addressed the conference and felt to give
praise for the great good being accomplished
by this organization. The Stake officers
were presented and all unanimously sus-
tained, after which conference adjourned
for six months.
		HANNAH HARBOUR, Stake Sec. 
SEVIER STAKE.
	Relief Society conference convened at 10
a. m. at the meeting house, President
Christina Sorensen presiding. Singing,
“Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Prayer by Brother Robert F. Goold. Sing-
ing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.”
	Officers present on the stand were, Presi-
dent Christina Sorensen, Counselors Mary
E. Magleby and Ellen Thueson, Treasurer
Caroline Bohman, also Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson, of Salt Lake Gity, and Sister
Marilla Daniels, of Provo, who had come
to attend the conference and visit some of
the branches with the Stake Board.
	Roll call, fourteen wards represented out
of sixteen. Minutes of forenoon meeting
of last conference read.
	Several of the presidents reported their
societies in pretty good working order,
wheat in good condition, stored in tithing
granaries; they hold testimony and intel-
lectual meetings; the sisters are united,
have good meetings, are willing to help in
all good works, some do not attend meet-
ings regularly; work meetings held when
necessary; teachers visit and bring in good
reports; sisters willing to donate; small
wards are more diligent in their labors;
the same sisters belong to the Relief Soci-
ety, the Young Ladies and the Primary 
Associations; all sisters expressed them-
selves as being pleased to have the sisters
from headquarters visiting with us.
	President Sorensen introduced Sister
Stevenson and Sister Daniels.
	Sister M. Daniels was pleased to hear
reports, spoke of wheat being represented
this morning, only one ward had their own
granary, encouraged the building of gran-
aries. President Woodruff’s instructions to
the sisters were to keep on gathering grain.
Read from the EXPONENT of April 15,
1898, how to build a granary out of noth-
ing, by sisters of St. George. Be prepared,
for great changes are taking place. Spoke
of the first organization of the Relief Society
by the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of going
back to Jackson County to build up Zion.
Every mother should encourage her
daughters to join the Relief Society. Gave
her experience in performing duties [-]nd
labors in the Gospel.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said: “It is no small
matter to speak to sisters of the Latter-day
Saints. We will receive the Holy Spirit if
we live for it.” Spoke of building gra[---]


