[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
    By this time some of the inmates began
to be jealous of me, and talk about me and
do all they could. They said that I was an
impostor and that they dared not pass my
door; that I was a witch, and so on. But I
did not mind it for I had passed through all
that sort when I had first joined the Church.
I knew that friends had been raised up to
me in time of need by my Heavenly Father
and I learned to trust him.
    I asked the nurse if she would prop me
up when the minister came again, for I felt
as if I would like to talk to him. I prayed
that I might be given strength to talk

[Column 2]
and words to say; for of myself I knew
that I could say nothing, for I was entirely
unlearned. He came. The nurse propped
me up as I had asked and then I told him
that I wished to talk with him about my
religion. He seemed pleased and was as
kind as he could have been if he had been
my father. He had the windows raised,
for it was very warm, and then told me he
would like to listen if I was strong enough.
    I spent more than an hour in telling him
what there was in the Bible. A great many
things he said he had never seen in his
Bible, and thought it was from some other
book. But I told him that if he would
bring his Bible I would mark it for him so
he could read it. I had a synopsis of the
Bible with me and I knew that I could find
anything that I wanted.
    When he came again he brought his
Bible, but the first thing to be mentioned
was the Book of Mormon. He said that
the Bible did not say anything about such a
book. I asked him what Isaiah meant when
he spoke of the Stick of Judah and the
Stick of Ephraim that were to be made one
Stick in the hands of the Lord? He said
he had never seen such a statement in the
Bible. We had a long talk and he, when
he left, left his beautiful morocco bound
Bible with me. I had lost the use of my
lower limbs, but not of my hands, so I pro-
cured a pencil and set to work marking
passages and by the time he returned I had
about fifty marked for him. When he
came I handed it to him. As many as
thirty of the inmates at a time had come
and listened to our talks. I used to pray
that my memory might be strengthened
and that I might have wisdom that what-
ever I should say would be correct. On
his next visit, after inquiring about my
condition, he said: “My dear young girl, I
have lived to see the words of our blessed
Lord fulfilled in you, for he said, ‘These
things shall be hid from the wise and prudent
and be revealed even unto babes.’ I was
brought up and trained in college to be a
minister of the Gospel, but I never in all
my studies knew such words were in the
Bible; but I must confess that what you
have said is true.”
    One young lady made a remark thinking
to take me off what I was saying, but the
minister turned to her and told her I was
abundantly able to answer all questions,
and that if she could not be quiet to leave
the room. She did not bother me any more.
He was a constant visitor as long as I re-
mained there and his last words to me were
“God bless and spare your life. The doc-
tor has given me some hopes today.”
    A few nights before I left the hospital
two bright lights appeared at my window,
and I heard these words distinctly, ‘‘Arise
and depart from here; this place is polluted
and you will be destroyed, Joseph and
Hyrutn Smith.”
I told the night nurse and she said she
guessed it was an angel, for I had often
told her that angels did come to the earth
these days. How I prayed that the doctor
would send me home, for I feared to stay
there. When the doctor made his next
visit he told me that I would have to
undergo an operation, I told him that I would
never submit to that. To that he said,
“you may then go home, we can do no
more for you.” He looked at me and said,
“What do you want to live for? The fear
of death, or the love of the world ?”
My answer was the love of the world.

[Column 3]
He said that if I lived I would never be
any good to myself or to any one else.
Many of my friends came to see me and I
finally wrote a letter to my friends to come
and take me home. So after nine weary
weeks of torture and suffering I was given
a paper by the doctor stating that I was in-
curable. I was taken home and was given
a large supply of medicine. My mother
was told to report my condition occasionally.
    At the end of two weeks my mother went
to see the doctor, who asked if that poor
girl were still alive. He gave her some
more medicine for me. A few days after
that some of my old Methodist friends called
to see me, and while they were there I had
to take some of my medicine. One of them
asked me if I knew what it was I was taking.
I said that I did not, and then he told me
it was opium. I looked astonished at him,
for I had been told that he took a great deal
of that poison, and a more haggard and
sickly looking man it would be hard to find.
I thought that if I could not live without
taking that drug it was better for me to die.
I prayed earnestly that if my living de-
pended upon my taking that drug which I
saw made such ghastly looking sights, that
I might die.
    As soon as my strength permitted, I took
all of the medicine that I had and went out-
side and buried it and there covenanted with
the Lord that if He would spare my life that
I might be useful in the kingdom, I would
never take doctor’s medicine again.
    I was restored to health, and though-
fifty-five years have passed and I have had
much sickness to go through, I have never
taken any of their medicine to speak of.
    After I was restored, my companion in
the Church, Sister Sarah Martin, and I
ussd to distribute tracts for the mission-
aries through two different villages; we
made a round each Sunday evening. We
had three miles to the one place and two to
the other, but we never missed going sum-
mer or winter for years. Sometimes the
people would listen to what we had to say
and sometimes they would not; some would
tell us that they had burned those we left
last and they did not want any more: others
would shut the door in our faces, but
wherever the people would listen to us we
told them what the Lord wanted of them to
the best of our ability, and we had the
pleasure of seeing some of the fruits of our
labors.
    One night as I was walking with the
president of the Bedfordshire mission our
conversation was turned to the young man
with whom I had been keeping company.
I told the president that I would never
marry him in this world, for he was too
narrow-minded, I could never be happy
with him. The president told me that
Brother Underwood loved me as much as a
man could love a woman. “But,” said he,
“the half of a man you could love is better
than the whole of one you could not love.”
    This surprised me, and I asked him if he
meant by that that men had more than one
wife in these days.
    His reply was, “You must have caught
the spirit of it!”
    “Well,” I told him, “the Bible speaks of
men having more than one wife.”
    His only answer to this was that we have
the same Gospel that the ancients had.
    I could plainly see that if plural marriage
was a principle of the Gospel then, it must
of necessity be so now. That was the first
time I had heard it hinted at, that polygamy
was being practised in the Church, I learned


