[Column 1]
	Bessie stroked the slender hands about
her neck, and pressed them to her glowing
cheeks.
	“I have had no children, dear, you know
that; but you will never know what that
fact means to a woman’s desolate heart yet
the sweet love of Christ and the dear reli-
gion we both love so well has filled the ach-
ing void, and God has answered my prayer
in some measure and given me the love and
tender confidence of my young friends.
Now, dear, I am deeply touched by your
distress about your mother. I can see how
it has all come about; but for her sake, for
your own, and that you may not be yourself
such a mother to your children, you must
break the wall of reserve and find entrance
uto your mother’s heart of hearts, while
you open the deepest recesses of yours to
her.”
	“You always understand, auntie, and know
just what to say, don’t you?”
	The tender, aged lips trembled with
emotion, and the lady sighed as she said:
	“If so, God teaches me, dear.”
	The two sat silent a long while, and the
coals dropped down in the open grate, and
grew gray in their ashen covering.
	At last the lady said:
	“Bessie, what are you going to give
your mother for a Christmas gift?”
	“I don’t know, auntie; I had not thought
much about it. I dare say I shall buy her
something, for I am in school, you know,
and can’t do fancy work. Anyway, I hate
fancywork. I would rather make a whole
dress than to work a Batteuburg handker-
chief.”
	“Well, dear, there are so many good and
profitable things to do, tnat no one need
spend their time in distasteful employment.
I have a little suggestion which might be
made into a gift for the dear mother, and at
the same time accomplish the dearest wish
of your heart.”
	“What is it, auntie? I am all expectancy
You always have such delightful sugges-
tions.”
	The two sat talking and discussing for an
hour, and then Bess sprang up with shining
eyes and a happy smile on her lips as she
said:
	“All right, auntie, I think I can get it
done nicely by working in all my spare
hours. Goodby, you dear, sweet, precious
auntie, I shall never forget you for this.”
	And as the girl closed the door the lady
arose and watched the graceful form flit
down between the rows of lilacs and rose
trees, and out at the gate into the snowy
road beyond.
	“I cannot be selfish and keep her love all
to myself; it belongs to her mother, for God
so ordained it. Ah, thank Him, that
love is of Himself a part, in giving we are
not impoverished, and in taking away we
are not deprived!”
			*	*	*
	The Christmas morning was early filled
with merry shouts of laughter and gay ex-
changes of gift and greeting in Bessie’s
home.
	As Bessie’s mother looked at the many
and elaborate presents spread out on the
table for her, she gazed with pleased eyes at
a small box delicately tied with blue ribbon
and marked,
		From Bessie to Mother.
	The mother opened all the rest first, and
finally as she reached for Bessie’s parcel,
the girl herself could not bear it, and she

[Column 2]
flew out of the room on some trivial excuse.
	But the mother was so pleasantly engaged
in discovering all her gift treasures that she
did not notice the exit of her daughter.
	As she opened the pretty box, she saw
within a very simple, dainty daily calendar,
a sheet for each of the three hundred and
sixty-five days, fastened to a small, wooden
frame, each one pasted at the top, as on a
tab. On the top sheet was inscribed, in
bold letters, Jan. 1st, 1900, and beneath it
was written, in Bessie’s own beautiful pen-
manship:
Dearest Mother:
	I have written out the very innermost thoughts of
my heart on these leaves which you will tear off
day by day. And that they will reach to the depths,
of your own pure, loving soul is the hope of your
							BESSIE.
	The mother drew away the box from the
curious eyes of her little son, who stood by
her, and who asked curiously, “What are
oo tying about, mama?”
	But she gave him a kiss for reply, and
closed up her precious gift, as if it were too
sacred for the eyes of any one save herself.
	She turned aside in a window recess and
opening again her box,’ she lifted up the
second leaf, and--under the date she read:
	Mother dear, I have your love and you have
mine! but I want your confidence, and I want to
give you mine.
							BESSIE.
On another leaf she read:
	How I have longed to sit at your feet and have
you stroke my hair while I tell you all my secrets,
but I don’t know how to begin. Won’t you help
me?
	She had read enough to know that her
young daughter had given her the most
precious gift ever given by child to parent—
the gift of her heart’s confidence! And she
put the box up to her lips and kissed it
again and again. Oh, it was what she,
too, had been longing for these many years.
And she knew not how to gain it!
	As Bessie came into the room, the mother
held out her arms and the girl ran into that
loving embrace, while their silent tears
mingled as they kissed each other fondly.
	“Oo make mama ty, Bessie,” said the
baby-boy. “Tome away.”
	But the mother picked him up and kissed
him fervently, while she whispered to
Bessie, “You have made me so happy,
Bessie. So happy!”
	And the little brother asked wonderingly,
“Did she dive oo a Christmas dift, mama?
What was it, mama?”
	And the mother stroked the girl’s sunny
hair almost for the first time in her life, as
she replied:
	“Why, baby dear, Bessie has given me
her heart for my Christmas present.”
	In the twilight of that evening two ladies
came up the path bordered by lilacs and
rosetrees, and as they were ushered into the
dainty sitting room where sat the elderly
lady, a soft, mellow voice, now full of happy
tears, cried out,
	“Oh, auntie! mamma and I have both
come tonight to talk it all over with you,
you dear, sweet auntie. And mamma says
you are not to lose me, auntie, but you are
to take us both into your heart and let us
both be your dear confidents.”
	There were no more words for a little
season as the grey-haired lady arose and
clasped the hands offered to her and put up
her own trembling lips for a kiss from each.
	Then she drew up two low ottomans and

[Column 3]
the others sat down at her feet, and while
the delicate aged hands caressed the dark
hair and the golden, Bessie said softly:
	“Isn’t this a heavenly Christmas?”
	And the hostess replied reverently:
	“Aye, for it is sanctified by Love
Divine!”
