A RARE JUNE WEDDING.
	Undoubtedly the month of June is the
most delightful time of the year to have
pretty weddings, and there have been a
large number of very elaborate ones this
June season, the most significant one, per-
haps, being solemnized on Friday, June
29, in the Salt Lake Temple, the cere-
mony being performed by President George
Q. Cannon at 4 p. m. The bride and
bridegroom were Miss Maud M. Ford, of
Cleveland, Ohio, and Mr. Le Roi C. Snow,
of Salt Lake.
	A royal reception was given by the


parents of the bridegroom at the Bee Hive
House, in this city. Eight hundred in-
vitations had been sent out, though many
of them were to friends at a distance in
different states. However, some hundreds
of the relatives and friends assembled to
offer congratulations and good wishes on
this happy and auspicious occasion.
	The bride was attired in an exquisite
white gown of soft material, and Miss
Mabelle Snow in pink crepon, little Lucile
Snow in pale blue silk, all charming and
dressed in good taste.
	The decorations outside and the illum-
inations were profuse and in bright colors
that corresponded with the artistic decor-
ations and festivities within the grand old
residence, where so many brilliant parties
have been given in the days gone by.
	It is utterly useless in our little paper to
attempt an elaborate description of the
beauty and splendor of the scene without
and within. The colors of the decorating
were fastidiously blended, and the refresh-
ments carried out the same idea of color in
effect. Bands of music were playing
throughout the evening, and Professors
Lund and Anderson, also Miss Mary
Young rendered vocal selections adapted
to the occasion. Appropriate recitations
were given by Messrs B. S. and Morris
Young.
	Mr. and Mrs. Snow received their friends
in the east drawing room, which was
beautifully decorated and draped, making
it a bower of beauty in which to receive
the congratulations and good wishes of
their “dear five hundred friends.”
	The presents were displayed on tables in
the library and were for the most part in
the same style of elegance as the house, its
furnishings and surroundings, in fact every-
thing seemed in keeping with the auspici-
ous union of two young lovers just enter-
ing upon the smooth and shining sea of
matrimony without a ripple or a wavelet
to disturb the onward passage of Hymen’s
bark.
“There’s a bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
		told,
	When two, that are linked in one heavenly tie,
With hearts never changing, and brow never cold,
Love on through all ills and love on till they die.”


