UINTAH STAKE.
Minutes of the 24th conference of the ‘
Uintah Stake, held September 6, 1900,
President Sarah Pope presiding. Singing,
‘‘Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Counselor
A. K. Bartlett. Singing, ‘‘We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Roll called,
four Stake and seven ward officers present.
Minutes of the previous conference read and
approved.
President Sarah Pope was pleased to
again have the privilege of meeting with
the sisters in conference, and said we had
with us two sisters from headquarters and 
no doubt all would be pleased to hear from
them.
The different branches of the society were
reported as being in very good condition. 
Sister Mary E. Irvine said she was not
here for pleasure, but because she was
called. President Joseph Smith turned the


key in behalf of women, and how they had
advanced since that time. We should look
after ourselves and not spend so much
time bothering our neighbors. When we
go before our Father in heaven He will not
ask us what everyone else has been doing,
but what we ourselves have done. 
Sister Susan Grant said one of the im-
portant missions of the Relief Society was
to store up grain and then take care that it
is not destroyed. We should always re-
member our prayers, for if we forget the
Lord in the hour of prosperity, He will be
slow to hear us in the hour of trouble.
Counselor Mary Hall thought the sisters
ought to turn out to meetings and hear the
instructions the sisters had to give them
after coming over such a road as they had
to travel.
Sister AbigailOaks said we often perform
duties because it is a duty, and not for the
love we have for the work. Children are
precious gifts from God, and we should
strive to train them so they will be able to
enter into the presence of our Father in
heaven.
Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing, ‘‘Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction by
Brother E. J. Longhurst.
Afternoon session. Singing, “Prayer is
the soul’s sincere desire.” Prayer by
Brother James H. Glines. Singing, “The
spirit of God like a fire is burning.” The
general and local officers of the Relief
Society were sustained.
Counselor A. K. Bartlett said we should
not neglect our duty and leave it for some
one else to perform. There is a great mis-
sionary work to be performed in the midst
of Zion. therefore how necessary it is for
mothers to understand the Gospel.
Sister Susan Grant said we should make
home the loveliest place on earth, so the
children would rather be there than any-
where else. It requires a great deal of
patience to raise a family of children, there-
fore we should pray for the help of the
Lord.
Sister Mary E. Irvine said some people
would spend all their time in training fine
animals and neglect their children. We
should train our children in love and not
anger. We should never find fault with
the Priesthood, and especially before the
children, it makes a bad impression upon
them.
President Sarah Pope felt to thank the
sisters for their visit and hoped they would
come again.
Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Bingham.
