THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLASS.
	One of the necessities of all cities, and
especially Salt Lake, is a School of Domes-
tic Science. An institution where all can
receive proper training to fit them for future
life. This school is not only for girls who
seek employment as domestics, nor for the
nurses, who, I am sorry to say, know
nothing about cooking, but for these young
girls who are growing up and know not
“when the hour cometh” that they may be
called upon to preside in the kitchen.
	While a person may go through life and
never be compelled to cook a meal, if she is
skilled in the art she is better able to know
when it is properly prepared.
	This school of ours that was held in the
Normal school building of the University
was a success and exceeded our most san-
guine expectations. It was started without
a cent of money but with the proverbial
generosity of the Salt Lake people a stove,
dishes, cooking utensils, etc., were donated,
and when our school closed our expenses
were all paid and a surplus to commence
another school.
	Every club in the city was supposed to
have a delegate who would interest herself
in the work, but it fell entirely on the Press


Club, Mrs. Georgianna Young, Mrs. Emma
J. McVicker and Mrs. Luella M. Rhodes.
	We expect to make arrangements to in-
clude it in a special course at the Univer-
sity, to be an elective study, as it were,
until the Legislature meets, when we hope
to secure an appropriation to carry on the
work and make a permanent study. This
work has progressed in London with marked
success, so that now a School of Domestic
Science is made a part of the training of
every girl. Every day between nine and
twelve there were over thirty-three pupils
at their work. The cooking department
was presided over by Miss Emily Cannon, a
graduate of the Boston School of Cooking.
The art of housewifery was taught by
Miss Edna May Davis, a thoroughly com-
petent instructress. In the sewing room
Miss Mary S. Smith, a graduate of the Pratt
Institute, N. Y., taught the girls the differ-
ent stitches, hemming, felling, patching,
darning, etc., and impressed upon them that
“a stitch in time saves nine.” Many of
the girls made articles of wearing apparel
for themselves. Some made handkerchiefs,
and some of the smaller girls made doll
clothes. This only shows what can be done
in just a five weeks’ course.
	At the closing exercises of the school
much encouragement was given the com-
mittee. Many of the parents and friends
expressed themselves as greatly pleased
with the work of the children and pledged
themselves to help support a Domestic
Science School. “As ye sow, so shall ye 
reap.’’
						L. M. R.


