[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY
			(Conclusion.)
	Counselor Ellen Thueson, of Sevier Stake,
said they had held their last conference in
Grass Valley and the sisters in that locality
turned out well and they had a good time,
also on the 17th of March the meetings
were very enjoyable.
	President B. W. Smith spoke very im-
pressively about sustaining the EXPONENT,
felt it was the duty of the sisters, all who
were able, to take it and read it. She had
taken it from the beginning, and could not
do without it, it contained many matters
necessary for the sisters and much historical
data. Urged the sisters to labor in the
Temple, not to neglect their dead, if they
did their sorrows would be great in a day to
come.
	President Jane S. Richards: “Our
meeting is never long enough. I hope we
shall all remember what Sister Zina has
told us today, let us pray that she may live
and yet visit many Stakes of Zion. Brother
Hammond has said the Relief Society 
meetings are the best he has ever attended.
I feel that they are the best for us.” Sister
Richards spoke very sweetly about the
children and babies, told a story of being in
a meeting when the brothers or Bishop
asked those who had babies to stay down
by the door. She wanted the babies to
come up around the stand. We want to
begin with the children while they are small
and train them to go to meeting and love
it, and we who are older can begin with our
grandchildren. Let us be diligent in all
our duties, pay our donations, now this ten
cent donation is not one cent a month, there
has to be money to carry on this work,
you cannot have a celebration everywhere,
but we can do whatever is practicable in the
locality. “In Ogden we always have a
good sized conference, the people turn out
well. We do want to have our young girls
come and join the Relief Society. If they
are young girls now they will grow older
and have to take their part as the older sis-

[Column 2]
ters do, and how much better it will be to
begin young. You will be glad when you
meet the Prophet Joseph, who organized
this society, that you are among those who
carried out his instructions. He was like
an angel when he spoke to us, many times
his face was transparent.”
	President F. A. Hammond: “Time is
very precious to us. Society meetings are
among the very best I have ever attended.
The sisters in Moab had a good time at
their anniversary meeting, March 17. I
realize the necessity of sustaining the EX-
PONENT, I have felt many times that it was
worthy better support than it received from
the sisters. In my travels and journeyings
all the country round, I meet with the sis
ters in their organizations and try to en-
courage them in their duties; and storing
up wheat is one of the obligations of the
society, some have done more than others.
These aged sisters who preside some of
them I have known over fifty years. I re-
joice to see them here today and to behold
their faces, and I pray the Lord to bless
them and to give them life and health as
long as they desire it on the earth.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley, of Millard
Stake, spoke of the long trips they had to
make by team when visiting the country;
yet they always felt blest and richly repaid
for any weariness or inconvenience. They
held conferences in the different parts of the
the Stake.
	President Zina D. H. Young blessed the
sisters.
	There was a motion made to thank the
choir and all those who had taken part in
the music, which carried unanimously.
	The choir sang “Should you feel inclined
to censure.’ Conference adjourned for six
months. Benediction by President Zina D.
H. Young.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


