[Column 1]
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The sisters of the General Board and
other sisters have been busy of late visiting
conferences. President M. Isabella Horne
and Sister Harriet Ellis attended the Utah
Stake Relief Society; President Jane S.
Richards attended Morgan Stake; Sisters
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and L. L. Greene
Richards, Emery Stake; President Susan
Grant and Sister Mary E. Irvine, Uintah
Stake.
	Miss Susan B Anthony is reported to be
slowly but surely recovering from the col-
lapse which prostrated her early in Septem-
ber last. She is now able to ride or walk
out a little every day. Women everywhere
will rejoice that she has been spared to
direct and advise those who love her so in-
tensely and who look up to her for wisdom
to guide the women’s movement for higher
advancement.
	The women of the L. D. S. Church every
where will, we are sure, be delighted to
know that they are to have a Woman’s
Temple or building in the not far distant
future. The presidency of the Church
have very generously given a very valuable
piece of land on the block east of the mag-
nificent Temple in this city, facing west at
the south corner of Temple avenue. The
structure when completed will, the sisters
may rest assured, be a handsome and com-
modious edifice.
	The women of Utah are honored in the
appointment of Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
for Superintendent of Public Instruction to
fill the unexpired term left vacant by the
demise of Dr. John R. Park. Mrs. Mc-
Vicker is an honor to the women of the
State, thoroughly qualified for the position,
<a>nd an all around woman of affairs. She has

[Column 2]
the hearty congratulations of the EXPONEN[-]
and a sincere wish from the editor for th[-]
future success of her educational ideals fo[-]
the State of Utah.
	The Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women Will be held at
Minneapolis, Minnesota, on November 13,
14, and 15, 1900. By invitation of the
Women’s Council of Minneapolis the pub-
lic meetings will be held in the First
Unitarian Church at 8th and Mary Streets.
Other meetings in church parlors or in
Hotel Headquarters, as usual. The
National organizations will be represented by
the president or proxy and one delegate or
alternate. Patrons and members of com-
mittees are entitled to be present and par-
ticipate in proceedings.
	The At Home given by Mrs. F. S., Mrs.
F. Dewey and Mrs. Joseph T. Richards at
the Richards residence on A. Street,
Saturday afternoon, October 20, was a bril-
liant affair. Three hundred guests were
invited and a large number attended during
the hours from 2 to 6 o’clock. The dec-
orations were on a very magnificent scale,
the front parlor in green and white chrysan-
themums, with vines and ferns, and very
artistic, the rear parlor in red and the dining
room in yellow and white. The ladies of
the house were assisted in receiving by Mrs.
J. T. Houx, of San Francisco, Mrs. C. S.
Varian, Mrs. A. G. Ewing, Mrs. Ed. Ferry
Mrs. Flank Jennings and Mrs. W. W.
Riter. The ladies who assisted in serving
refreshments were Mrs. Fred W. Scarff,
Misses Mary Young, Edyth Ellerbeck and
Ida Noble. The gowns of the young ladies
corresponded with the colors used in dec-
orating the dining hall.
	The General Conference of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints convened
October 5, 6, and 7, in the Tabernacle in Salt
Lake City, and was opened by President
Lorenzo Snow, who delivered an eloquent
and inspiritional sermon, touching upon
many important matters of historical inter-
est and also such as relate to the present day
and the lives of the Latter-day Saints. His
remarks concerning the building up of
Jackson County were in line with the spirit
of the times and his words altogether were
pregnant with significance of the work of
the Lord in the “last days,” or the fulness
of times, and of the position he occupies as
the head of the Church. President Snow,
although in his 87th year, speaks as forcibly
as ever and can be heard distinctly in that
large building. The President is a very
remarkable man and a grand representative
of his Puritan ancestry.
	The Utah State Fair, held at the Expo-
sition building and grounds, in this city,
was opened October 2, 1900, by Secretary
James A. Hammond, in the absence of the
Governor with an immense audience. The
Fair lasted through the week and was
thronged most of the time. The weather
for one or two days was rather unfavorable,
yet the showing of attendance was good.
The cattle, horses and poultry surpassed
other years, and the mineral exhibits were
fine, and also in some other departments
the excellence of workmanship and of
articles excelled previous exhibits; but in
art, education and textile industries the
exhibit was not what it should have been
to show the material progress that has been
made in these special lines. No pains was
spared, however, on the part of the presi


