[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPAY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
	William Bates, my father, was of English 
descent. He married one Elizabeth Jeffries
in 1816, and settled in a small town called
Sandy, in Bedfordshire, England.
	The house in which I was born was a
small concrete building which stood near
the St. Ives river, facing the west. There
was one door and a window in the front, a
door and a window in the back. On the
first floor were three rooms, one large room
and two small pantries while on the second
floor were but two, one large room and a
large closet. The thatched root, the picket
fence painted blue and the little flower gar-
den in which I used to spend a few spare
moments, hold a cherished spot in my mem-
ory. A few years ago the rosemary trees I
planted in my youth were still growing.
	In the meadows, outside the fence, was a
lovely place, where I and my sister and my
brothers whiled away our childhood hours
running in the grass, and in the shade of
the old willows.
	I was born July 6, 1826, being the third
child of my parents, the others names were
Ann, William Jeffries, and John Richard.
	My father and mother belonged to the
laboring class. We, as children, were
brought up in a country village. My
mother was of a religious turn of mind, and
from my earliest recollection she taught us
to read the Bible; and as I advanced in
years I took great pleasure in reading that
book. I used to go miles to hear different
denominations preach what they called the
Gospel. I would listen with the utmost
interest to them, but used to take great
pleasure in listening to a sect called in
England Calvinists. Many times I
have walked over seven miles with my
mother on Sunday to hear them preach,
before I was twelve years old. One day I
was listening to one of their speakers. In
his discourse he said “that little children
who were not born of parents who were
elected were crawling over hell like frogs
and toads.” Yonng as I was it struck ter-
ror to my soul; and I began to think if it
were possible that God was so unjust that
He would consign little children to such
endless misery, I could not find any such
doctrine in the Bible, and from that time to
this I have never listened to any more of
that doctrine.
	About that time, I remember, there were
to be some races in a place about three
miles from where we lived. I had a great
desire to go, but my mother told me I could
not go, she said she would take me to the hill
so I could see the people pass, there I could
help her gather fir apples. I went with
her, but took no pleasure in looking at the
passing people nor in gathering the fir
apples. I went off some distance from my
mother and sat down and cried bitterly. I
closed my eyes to everything around me,
but all at once spoke these words as plainly
as ever words were spoken: “When dan-
gers thick around you stand, and you are
beset on every hand, the Lord will be
your friend, in Him put all your trust.”
From that moment I dried my tears and
forgot all my troubles; from that time I
tried to pray for myself. I had been
taught a prayer, but that no longer satisfied
me; for I had been taught that God was a

[Column 2]
being without body, parts or passions, and I
did not know what to do. For that reason
went from one sect to another. I could
not accept the Calvinistic doctrine of elec-
tion, and I knew that my parents did not
believe it, At last I went to a Methodist
Sunday School. I then thought their re-
ligion was more liberal than any other.
When I was thirteen years old I dreamed
one night that I was standing on a hill
looking toward the west, and I saw the
world on fire, and as I stood looking I saw 
a personage coming toward me. I stood
still until it came to me and then it said:

	No ill shall enter where you dwell,
		And if the plague come nigh,
	’Twill sweep the wicked down to hell,
		And bear the Saints on high.

	This seemed strange to me, for at this
time I had not heard anything of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	I never had the privilege of going to
school to learn to read or write, but I did
go to sewing school until I was fourteen
years old then I started to do fine needle work
for a lady by the name of Pym. She sup-
ported a school and gave me a chance to go,
but mother could not spare me, so for the
common schooling I had practically none
in my childhood.
	I became very much attached to the
Methodist belief, and wished to become a
member of their church, but my mother
objected. One night I thought I would go
and join a class but that night I took very
sick and could not go. After that I did not
go to their church.
	The lady for whom I had been sewing
asked me to come ard join the choir in
what is called the Church of England. I
still continued going there for
some time to please my mother,
for she did not like the Methodists, and did
not want us to go to their church, but that
seemed hard for me.
	I continued to go to the Church of England
until the fall of 1841. At that time I
chanced to hear Apostle P. P. Pratt and
Elder John Snider. They had come to
England preaching in the interest of the
Nauvoo Temple.
	On the thirteenth of October of that year,
while on my way home from my work in
the Hazel Hall, as that was the name of
the mansion where I was working, I was
taken with a severe pain in my side, and it
was with much difficulty that I reached my
home. I had a mile to walk through a
park covered with trees and shrubs. After
left the park gate it was a lonely road the
rest of the way home. The pain in my
side was so severe I felt that I could never
reach home. From that day I did not set
foot outside the door for about two months,
for I was taken down, with the typhus fever
and was very low for some time.
	One night, as I lay very sick, I dreamed
that my spirit left my body, I saw my body
very plainly. Then I went and watched
the sexton dig my grave and then returned
to the house where my body lay in the cof-
fin, and watched the men take it on their
shoulders. I thought I walked backward
all the way to the cemetery, for I was afraid
they would not carry my body straight. I
thought I walked above the ground, and
knew everybody just as I had known them
in life. From that time I thought that my
time had about come to leave this earth; but
had no fear of death, as I realized that all
must die sooner or later. I told my poor
mother and she felt very bad for some time.

[Column 3]
After several weeks the doctor said the
danger point had passed, and things seemed
a little brighter. No one but my mother
was allowed to see me for weeks. The
lady I had sewed for used to send every
evening to inquire about my condition, and
one time she sent me a great treat, that
was a quart of pure new milk. In England
pure new milk was hard to buy.
	In September, 1841, my sister, Ann
Smith, and her husband joined the Mor-
mon Church, and on Christmas day had
decided to give a party to the Latter-day
Saints and Elders together. They were
in good circumstances and things were
arranged. On Christmas day my brother-
in-law came over to our house with a
horse and cart, and plenty of wraps
to take me to their home. Mother was
afraid for me to go, for it was about five
miles, but the weather was unusually fine,
and finally mother consented, or I should
not have gone. They wrapped me up in
quilts and carried me to the cart. I was
very thankful to once more have the privi-
lege of getting out in the fresh air, and to
see something new, and I almost forgot my
sickness.
		(To be continued.)


