A HOUSEHOLD OF WOMEN.

To describe a household of women I once
knew would be comical to the last degree,
if not so provokingly pitiful. There were
five rich widows (one of these women was
said to be worth ten millions) all belong-
ing to the same family, living in a hand-
some house in a fashionable part of New
York, paying heavy taxes without a word
to say in regard to municipal government;
with their maids and servants they num-
bered just one dozen women.
They had one colored man, with a head
the size of an apple, one eye and lame in one
leg. On the first Tuesday of every Novem-
ber, this gentleman, a kind of majordomo to
the establishment, represented these twelve
women annually at the polls, five of them
highly educated, the other seven able to
read and write, any one of them competent
to throw the little majordomo over the
wall; yet he was the only full-fledged citizen
of the Republic in this household. The
twelve women had not a word to say in re-
gard to the laws or lawmakers under which
they lived. They were practically slaves
according to what Benjamin Franklin once
said: “If a man’s property can be taken
from him without his consent he is a slave.
if he has no voice in the government under
which he lives, he is a slave.”
The “Fathers” said, “No just govern-
ment can be formed without the consent of
the governed.”
“Taxation without representation is
tyranny.”


Have these lofty sentiments any appli-
cation to one half of the people of this Re-
public, or are they mere glittering gener-
alities for orators in their fourth of July
orations or on the eve of their annual elec-
tions? We pause for a reply.
Women are constantly asked as to their
choice in the pending election. As there is
no mention of them on either the Republican
or Democratic platform as neither Mr.
McKinley nor Mr. Bryan has had the
courtesy to mention them in their prouncia-
mentoes, why should they feel the slightest
interest in either party? Their political
status will remain the same in the success of
either.
The questions of tariff, gold basis,im-
perialism, trusts, sink into utter insignifi-
cance compared with the emancipation of
forty millions of women, many of them
highly educated, the most virtuous and
law-abiding citizens of the Republic.
