[Column 1]
	AN INTERESTING JOURNEY.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells:
	DEAR FRIEND:- Since returning home
from my very delightful trip, among my
papers I found the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
you gave me, and thinking of you was re-
minded of my promise to write to you.
	We had a very delightful trip from start
to finish, and would have been delighted,
if the limitation of our travels had permitted,
to have remained a week longer in the
beautiful and impressive Salt Lake City, a
city which is a marvel to me in many ways.
Its rise and rapid growth from a barren and
an alkali plain; its broad beautiful streets,
bordered with immense trees of luxurious
foliage, and the beautiful Temple and
stately buildings, also commercial buildings
and fine houses; those beautiful mountains
with their different soft pinky shades, en-
shrouded in the hazy atmosphere, is ever a
delight which I never would tire of looking
upon. The greatest marvel is the Mormon
Church, which I in my ignorance had sup-
posed was almost a relic of the past, to find
such large audiences and following, and the
greatest mystery of all to me is the belief.
*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	We spent three weeks in Spokane, a city
among the pines and mountains, and found
many things to interest us in its natural
beauty of surroundings and industrial and
commercial activities. From there we
stopped off a day at Butte, and met a friend
who was living there, who made our stay
very pleasant, taking us all about the tree-
less and verdureless city and the wonderful
mining town. The sulphur from the
smelters has destroyed every green tree,
shrub and grass, leaving the city destitute
and naked, as it were, only bare walls of
stone and brush, the multi-millionaire’s
homes have the same naked appearance,
save on Clark Street was a small, weak, wild
cucumber vine, scarcely three feet in height.
	We rode up and up on the mountains,
viewing the mines in various places on the
rounds and also the city and country at 
large, sneezing and wheezing from the sul-
phur fumes. It was novel and interesting.
The ores the earth contains and the man-
made machinery invented to abstract them
from their hiding places.
	We resumed our journey through the
mountainous and picturesque Montana, and
made imaginary pictures of what that
country, so prolific in gold, copper and
other minerals, would be in one hundred
years from now, as its agricultural and
mineral resources become more fully de-
veloped.
	Well, the wonders of the Yellowstone
Park were finally reached, and wonderful
beyond description were the boiling, bub-
bling, spouting springs, the colors and
activity are indeed wonderful and so many
scattered along, sometimes clustered many
together, others solitary in different places.
Throughout the Park the various
mountain, river, lake and canyon scenery is
ever changing and beautiful.
	I will not attempt a description, for you

[Column 2]
may have seen it. We spent sixty days
very pleasantly there, then on to Fargo,
Dakota, where we stopped one week with
strangers. Then to Brainard, Minn., where
we stopped a week with a sister-in-law,
then to Clearwater, Minn., visited a cousin.
Next stop at Minneapolis and St. Paul,
where we visited all places of interest and
arrived in Chicago, September 14, 11:30 p.
m., more impressed than ever that there is
not a yard of this earth but what is beautiful
and wonderful beyond description. I see
beauty everywhere, in the sunshine, in the
shadows, in man, in woman. Where can
you look and not feast your eyes on beauty.
	We had a glorious trip and no occurrence
to mar our pleasure. For that reason we
hold to the truth that all is good, God made
everything that was made and called it
good, therefore we call everything good;
consequently good is coming our way all
the time.
	Should you see Judge and Mrs. Kinney
please give them my best regards, also
accept the same.
				Yours truly,
