OBITUARY.

To the memory of Sister Violet Ivie, who de- 
	parted this life. May 25, 1900.

	Whereas, in the dispensation of Providence God
has seen fit to call home one of his daughters who
has labored long in the Relief Society cause, not
alone of Richfield, but having been for fifteen
years secretary and afterwards president of the
Vermillion ward, until her removal to Richfield,
she having been a faithful member of our Society
and also leader of our singing.
	Whereas, she proved herself a hard worker and
a faithful member, ever ready to do good, and she
was one whose kindness and generosity of spirit
brought sunshine into many hearts, helped the
needy in time of want and was in herself a fitting
embodiment of her constant prayers that she might
be humble and united with all that is good; there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we her sisters of the Relief
Society of Richfield do deeply feel her loss, never-
theless in this our loss we feel to bow to the man-
dates of an Alwise Creator who doeth all things
well.
ANOTHER PIONEER GONE.
	Sister Thirza Melvina Thurber departed from
this life May 9, 1900, after a severe illness of about
one month’s duration. Sister Thirza was born
December 23, 1836, at Dresden, Wheaton Co.,
Tennessee. She was the daughter of Jesse and
Amelia Berry. She came to Utah in 1849 and
married Albert K. Thurber February 26, 1851.
After their marriage they resided at Cottonwood
about one year when they moved to Spanish Fork
and lived there until the fall of 1874, when they
were called to Richfield, where they have since
resided. She was the mother of eleven children,
eight of whom survive her. All were present at
the funeral except A. D. Thurber, who resides in
Mexico.
	At the organization of the Stake presidency of
the Relief Society of Sevier. May 25, 1879, she
was chosen as first counselor to Sister E B. Bean,
which position she filled with untiring zeal, ever
ready to do what was required of her in that posi-
tion for nearly twenty years. She was also a faith-
ful worker in the Richfield ward society; therefore
be it
	Resolved, That in her death we, the members
of the Richfield Relief Society, recognize the loss
of a faithful coworker.
	Resolved, That we extend our sympathy to the
bereaved children who have been deprived of a
devoted, faithful and tender mother.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
published in the Woman’s Exponent, a copy be
placed on the record of our Society and a copy be
presented to the family.
						HENRIETTA WRIGHT,
