HER MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS GIFT. 
The room was bright with two electric
giobes, and at one end an open stove gave
out more light, warmth and cheer. The
furniture was not elegant, rather to the con-
trary, it was simple and inexpensive; but
the painted floor was covered with a large
rug evidently an old Smyrna with its bril-
liantly shaded colors; the chairs were rockers
and a low, easy couch rested between two
windows, piled with soft, downy cushions.
There were curtains, simple dotted lace
ones, and a low bookcase on two sides of
the room. Two pictures, art copies of
Turner, gave an air of exquisite refinement
to the simple room.
The lady who sat reading before the fire
was fitted to her surroundings; or rather,
her surroundings seemed a fitting frame for
the delicate, high-bred beauty which, now,
more than ever, surrounded her like a halo.
She was small and slender, with thin,
nervous hands on which sparkled several
rings; a face whose every line bespoke char-
acter and nobility, from the broad, low
brow, to the firm, yet delicate chin. The
gray hair waved away from the brow was
dressed carelessly yet artistically, low in the
neck. Her silken robe was neglige
in its cut, and fell away from the tiny
slippered feet.
The door of the room was opened quickly,
but quietly, and a sweet voice asked, “May
come in, auntie ?”
“Certainly you may, my dear. Close the
door on Jack Frost and draw up your stool
and come here by the fire.”
The young girl who entered was lovely
with youth, vivacity and all the details of
comeliness. Her bright blue eyes and pink
cheeks were not coarsely pretty, but the
coloring was as delicate as the petals of a
tea rose and the blue of the heavens be-
tween the stars.
She drew her ottoman close by the elder
lady’s chair, and after a moments silence she
said, wistfully:
“Auntie, I am very unhappy about my
mamma.”
“Why, Bessie, what’s the matter with the
lady mother ? Has she been taken suddenly
ill, or is she fretting over gifts for the
coming holidays, or what is the trouble?”
“There is nothing of that kind, auntie,
mamma is just the same as usual and
everything is all right at home. It is dnly
I—that is—well, I’ll, tell you, auntie,
all about it.”
“That’s a good girl; I knew there was
something on your mind lately, Pussy, and 
I have been waiting very patiently for you
to tell me what it was.”
“That’s just it, auntie, I don’t want to
tell you; that is, I have resolved--and re-
solved—not to tell you-but to tell
mamma—and, oh—I can’t!”
The last broken words brought a little
gush of tears and the girl leaned her head
on the friendly knee beside her and wept
silently, while the slender hands stroked the
pale gold hair and the soft voice comforted
and soothed the troubled girl.
“Dear me, Bessie, this looks almost seri-
ous. I am about to be alarmed. What
has happened between my pet and her dear
mother ? Come, dry thy bright eyes and
stop the little quiver in thy voice, and tell
me all about it from first to last.”
“Oh, auntie, its so easy to tell you things
and its so hard to tell my own mother, and
that’s the very whole of the trouble.”
The elder lady took the young face be-
tween her hands and looked a moment into
the deep blue eyes.
“Now, wait a moment, Bess, I hardly
understand. You must explain a little.”
“The girl put her own hands on the
slender ones pressed on her cheeks, and said:
“Dear auntie, I have been troubled for so
long because I feel that my own mother and
are not so near and dear as we ought to
be, as you and I are!”
“Oh!” softly said the elder lady, releas-
ing the girl from her clasp.
Bessie settled herself so that she could
look into the fire, and drawing the arm of
her companion about her neck, she went on,
sure of the loving interest of her listener.
“You see, auntie, I am not naturally very
talkative; I think I am very reserved. And
mamma is like that, too. Perhaps I should
never tell any one my secrets, if you had not
won my love and confidence years ago. I
can’t tell why it is, (but the patient listener
knew why) that I can come to you and open
my whole heart to you. I haven’t thought
much about these things till I have read
and heard so much lately in our meetings
about girls confiding in their mothers. I
can fancy what a lovely thing it would be
for mother and me to be like you and I are,
but I don’t know how to do it. Mamma
loves me, of course I know that, and we
can talk about our new clothes and going
to the theatre and our shopping, and all
that; but when I have tried once or twice
lately to speak to her about other things—
well—about my beaus, you know, or things
like that—I can’t get past the first word,
and mamma never helps me a bit; she just
acts more embarrassed and colder than I do.
Now its so different with you, and I can’t
tell why!”
The elder woman felt the tears filling her
eyes, and there was a suspicious ache in her
throat, but she said quietly:
“Yes, Bessie, I can understand all you
say. I have often told you to confide in
your mother."
“I know you have, auntie,” answered
the girl, eagerly, “and I am anxious to do
it; but cau one help one’s temperament?
And both mamma’s and mine are against it.
I am sure I don’t know what to do.” 
“Bessie dear, in my girlhood days I was
a quiet, reserved and silent child; I spent the
whole time at books and music. I had little
human companionship, for my own mother
was a reserved and quiet woman. I never
remember of sitting on her lap, or of any
caress, but a very occasional kiss, in my
life. I was full of romance and strong im-
pulse, and my circumstances and disposition
led my maiden feet to the brink of many
a precipice but I never lost my footing,
thank God for that!”
The girl reached up her hand and drew
the other hands down to her lips while she
kissed them over and over.
“I learned many lessons through my
own sufferings and trials. And chiefest of
all has been the fact that all humankind
longs and seeks for sympathy and com-
panionship. He who supplies that need to
the starving heart is the one who gains
uppermost influence and power over that
heart. And so I have studied how to win
the love and confidence of all creatures,
especially the young. And, Bessie, of all
my dear young friends, you come nearest to
being like my own child.”


