[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	It was with sincere regret that we learned
of the illness of our beloved friend and
woman’s benefactor, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, and we hope and pray and trust
that ere this she has entirely recovered.
Miss Anthony’s name is a household word
in the United States and across the sea she
is held in reverence and honored every-
where, in the mansions of the great and
noble of the lands, and in the cottages of
the people. America has reason to be
justly proud of a woman who alone and
single-handed has carried out such a re-
markable destiny and carved along with
her thousands of other women, who, but for
the paths she has broken over rough and
untrodden ways, might never have attained
to the higher views of life's perspective
where they can look out into the broader
fields of human liberty and higher pro-
gression.
	Tuesday, September 5, President Lorenzo
Snow gave the brothers and sisters en-
gaged in the Temple work, an excursion to 
Saltair, in which by invitation Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith and
several of the Apostles and others joined
the party. Everything passed off pleasantly

[Column 2]
and the affair was a most agreeable recre
ation to those whose time is constantly em-
ployed in special service to benefit and bless
the living and the dead. We acknowledge
with sincere thanks an invitation to be one
of the numerous guests ot the occasion, and
regret that circumstances prevented our
making one of such a delightful party.
	Mrs. Mary Urquhart Lee, the teacher of
“Parliamentary Law and the Cultivation of
the Speaking Voice and other Mediums of
Expression” is in the city at the Kenyon
and has classes daily in both these depart-
ments of her work. Mrs. Lee is a delight-
ful person to be associated with even for a
time. Her methods are entirely new and
seemingly very original. Her talks are in-
tensely interesting. She has awakened
quite an interest among club women and
others, and her drills in organized classes
are quite wonderful. She spares no pains to
make the classes attractive and to demon-
strate clearly her ideas of physical perfection
in grace and poise. Even a few lessons are
helpful, and to those who take a full course
must be decidedly beneficial. Mrs. Lee is
a noted authority on Parliamentary Law in
America, so much so that several news-
paper men and lawyers have at times joined
her classes. She gives the most essential
points that she has acquired by years of
study and experience in teaching. The
women of Salt Lake may congratulate
themselves upon having this fine opportun-
ty of being taught by one so accomplished
in style and manner, so brilliant in conver-
sation and so bright and sparkling in all her
ways as to give one the impression that she
is in love with life and brave enough to
face all its vicissitudes. Mrs. Lee is vigor-
ous and self-possessed, broad-minded in her
views of the world of mankind and a
thorough cosmopolitan. She is pleased
with Salt Lake and it is to be regretted she
cannot stay longer in Utah.
	On Friday, September 21, an At Home
was given by Sister Priscilla Jennings which
was a most enjoyable gathering of choice
sisters. Her elegant rooms were brightened
with autumn flowers and leaves, the Utah
sunflower being, perhaps, the most con-
spicuous. Music on the pianola by pro-
fessional musicians added to the pleasure
of the afternoon. Of the sixty-seven invi-
tations issued to the sisters nearly all were
present to partake of the cordial hospitality
of the hostess, whose tact and geniality
make her “Teas and Parties” interesting
and thoroughly attractive. The meeting
of old friends under such favorable arrange-
ments for enjoyment is a positive luxury
to the sisters who devote themselves, their
time and ability to Church work, chari-
table and philanthropic, in addition to
home duties and obligations. Among the
venerable Mothers in Israel present were
Sisters Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne, Bathsheba W. Smith, Elizabeth
Webb, Mary Alice Lambert and many
other women whose good works entitle
them to a high place in the history of the
Latter-day Saints. It is needless to say
that the tables were elegant in appearance
and the refreshments delicious and appe-
tizing. President Zina D. H. Young, by
request of Mrs. Jennings, pronounced the
blessing when the guests were all seated at
the numerous tables, large and small, in
the handsome dining room and library.
Mrs. Jennings is an ideal hostess, and this
last party was a delightful success, as al[-]
who participated in it will certainly agree


