WAYNE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Wayne
Stake was held at the Fremont Relief
Society house, June 7, 1900.
	Opened by singing “Come listen to a
prophets voice.” Prayer was offered by
Patriarch E. H. Black. Singing, “O, say
what is truth” Minutes of previous
conference read and accepted.
	President Jane S Coleman was pleased
to have so good an attendance of the sisters
and brethren at conference. Prayed that
we ever may be united by the bonds of
love and good feeling. Spoke upon the
duties of the officers and the necessity of-
having our records in proper condition,
that the sisters of the Relief Society should
be exemplary in all things and workers in
the Church and kingdom of God. Spoke
upon the necessities of the poor, that they
should be looked after and not neglected,
for the Prophet Joseph said the poor would
be made to rejoice through this organization,
it would be the beginning of better days for
them.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks said she was
gratified to see so many young sisters and
brethren present. Spoke upon giving
respect to the aged and to parents, and to
teach reverence for the priesthood. Spoke
on raising families and read from Apostle
Woodruff’s discourse on that subject. Spoke
on the care mothers should give their chil-
dren and the good impression they should
make upon their minds in their early youth.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe said we
should daily improve. It is the little
covert acts that creep in and make us weak.
Mothers should pray constantly for wisdom
to raise their children in the proper way.
A wide field of usefulness is open for our
sons and daughters. Mothers need to be
watchful and incline their aspirations in an
elevating channel. Said the mission of
mothers was great and responsible, to train
and raise the children aright.
	Sister Lucinda Brown was thankful she
was a member of the Relief Society, had
never heard better counsel given than had
been taught this morning. Spoke of past
times and of the present. Gave excellent
advice to young mothers pertaining to the
family. Mother is the one to instil into the
mind of the child the qualities that will
make them good and great in life.


Patriarch E. H. Blackburn said he
esteemed it an honor to be called on to
speak at the sisters’ conference. He enjoyed
the excellent spirit that was present with
us. Spoke upon the increase of the testi-
mony of the Gospel. We should honor
our callings, increase in faith, cultivate and
enjoy the gifts of the Gospel. Angels
were present taking record of all the good
that was done and said. Bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Benedic-
tion by Elder Allan Taylor.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “An angel
from on high.” Prayer by Elder Ole Oke-
land. Singing. Stake Secretary Anna
Coleman read financial report.
	President J. S. Coleman spoke on the
subject of sericulture. Several sisters in
the Stake had donated liberally to buy
mulberry trees, the result was that five
thousand yearling mulberry trees had been
planted this season. They were reported
growing well with very little loss. Said
she felt encouraged at our success in this
direction.
	The Relief Society of Fremont, Loa,
Thurber, Teasdale and Grover were re-
ported by their respective presidents in
good condition; Lyman and Caineville (by
counselors) doing well, working in unity.
At Giles and Caineville they were feeding
a few silk worms to gain some experience
for a future time.
	The Stake secretary presented the
General Board and Stake officers for accep-
tance; all were sustained.
	Counselor M. E. Hanks made remarks
on tithing, the word of wisdom and to
seek for the spirit of the Lord and keep it.
	Sister Nancy Blackburn was pleased to
hear the subject of raising families spoken
upon, the ways of the world were making
inroads among the people of God. Said she
was the mother of thirteen children. Was
pleased with the good instructions, they
were timely and good. We should live up
to the golden rule. Bore testimony to the
work of God.
	Sisters Anna Coleman and Elizabeth
Jeffrey spoke on living up to the principles
of the Gospel and being chaste in speech,
and not indulge in too much jesting to mar
the spirit of God.
	Sister Leah Blackburn said when we do
our duty the Lord will not withhold His
blessings from us. We should examine our
record daily and know if we are accomplish-
ing some good. Spoke of our privileges as
mothers having sons carrying the glad
tidings of the Gospel to those who know it
not.
	President Coleman said we had been
taught the word of the Lord, take it to our
homes and carry it out in our lives and be
benefited thereby. Live so that the Holy
Spirit will be our constant companion to
direct us at all times, improve every
spare moment by reading good books and
advance in knowledge and intelligence.
	The choir sang “Guide us, O Thou
Great Jehovah.” Benediction by Elder
John Adshead.


