MRS. ROOSEVELT.
	Mrs. Roosevelt is a fine horsewoman, and
may be seen almost any pleasant day in a
riding habit of blue cloth and a black
Fedora hat, cantering over roads at Oyster
Bay beside the Governor. She is so slender
and girlish looking no one would suppose
her to be the mother of all those rollicking
boys who rush to the window to throw
kisses to their father and mother as they
start. The New York Tribune says:

	The Roosevelt house is on the crest of a hill
and is surrounded by trees. It has an attractive
square hall, and its walls are covered with souven-
irs of the Colonel's travels.
	A large deer’s head, with spreading antlers,
does duty as a hat rack, upon which hangs the
Colonel’s campaign hat. Above are his regimental
colors. In the dining room are the heads of a
buffalo, a bear and several deer, all brought down
by Colonel Roosevelt’s rifle.

	Mrs. Roosevelt is devoted to husband and
children. Her first care and thought are
for them, and social life is a secondary con-
sideration. She does not go into society
in general, but has her own especial friends,
whom she entertains charmingly.


Another heir to the British throne has
been born and duly baptized with the
Queen as godmother. This is the fourth
child of Princess Louise of Batenburg and
the thirty-seventh great-grandchild of Her
Majesty.

	MRS. ROGER WOLCOTT has been ap-
pointed by Mayor Hart to represent Boston
at the International Congress of Charities in
Paris during the Exposition. She has ac-
cepted an invitation to speak at the
Congress.

	The Colonial Dames of Connecticut will
give $100 to the Committee on Historical
Landmarks towards the erection of a monu-
ment on the site of the former home of the
Rev. Samuel Russell, in Branford, where
the first meeting in the interest of Yale
College was held in 1700.

	Recently several visits have been made to
the Relief Society conferences of the several
Stakes. President Jane S. Richards and
Josephine R. West attended Relief Society
and Primary conference in Malad Stake.
President M. Isabella Horne and Sister
Harriet Ellis, the Relief Society conference
of Millard Stake; Sister E. J. Stevenson and
M. A. Caine the R. S. and Y. L. of Paro-
wan Stake, and Sister M. A. Caine, the
R.S. and P. A. of Panguitch Stake. Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and Sister H. Ellis also
attended a special meeting of the Relief
Society at Park City.


[---] Relief Society
Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

VOL 29.
