[Column 1]
	President Annie Baker gave a favorable
report of the Leavitt society.	Some of the
sisters walk three miles to attend their
meeting. We are blest with good weather.
Felt we would have a prosperous year and
we should be grateful for our blessings.
	Singing, “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded.”
	President Maria Bennett, of Magrath,
society, had been called with her husband
to settle in the country, and had been hap-
pily surprised. The sisters are energetic
and faithful in their labors and have a very
prosperous society. Desired the spirit of
her calling that she might be able to per-
form her duty.
	Stake Counselor Jane Hinman bore her
testimony to the blessings received through
fasting and prayer. Knew the sick had
been healed. “We are progressive, our
president is alive to her duties and has the
spirit of her calling.” Spoke on the princi-
ple of obedience. If we perform our duties
as mothers our children will respect and
obey us. We should teach our children 
patience and self-denial.
	President M. L. Woolf endorsed the re-
marks in regard to fasting and prayer, and
added her testimony.
	Minutes read and approved. Singing,
"We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah Gibbs.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
Counselor Jane Hinman presiding. Sing-
ing, “Guide us, O Thou great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Patriarch Henry L. Hinman.
Singing, “Down by the river’s verdant
side.” Minutes of afternoon session of
previous conference read.
	Counselor Rhoda E. Hinman said: “We
are living in a day of progress, when we
cease to progress we cease to perform our
duties. We are living in an eventful time
when the prophecies are being fulfilled, we
should be prayerful, we worship a God who
hears and answers prayers.
	President Catherine Pilling of Ætna:
“We have many things to be thankful for
and above all we should be grateful for the
Gospel and live up to its requirements. We
should as sisters overlook each others failing.
	President M. L. Woolf said the General
Board desires a representation from each
Stake at the General Relief Society Confer-
ence at Salt Lake City. She presented the
name of Sister Zina Y. Card as an aid to
the Alberta Stake. Carried unanimously.
“Mothers should always be able to govern
themselves and seek for power to train their
children properly that they may grow up
useful in the kingdom of God.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card said she had attended
the General Relief Society Conference and
gave instructions received. The 17th of
March should be remembered as the day of
the first organization of the Relief Society by
the Prophet Joseph Smith. It should be ob-
served as a ten cent fund day and could be
celebrated as desired, the president of each
branch being responsible for the fund. The
Stake officers should visit each society once
a year, and twice if convenient. A class
should be called to be trained as nurses in
each Stake, we should study to care proper-
ly for the sick.	The Stake officers’
meeting should be held quarterly; local
officers’ once a month.	The sisters should
build houses and granaries, as their means
will allow after the poor are properly taken
care of. Spoke of our average attendance
not being as large as it should be according
to the members enrolled.

[Column 2]
	Duet by Mamie Ibey and Rhoda Duce,
“God be With You till We meet Again.”
	Counselor Elizabeth Hammer said the
prayer offered up at the beginning of the
meeting had been answered and we had
been strengthened. In reading the confer-
ence news she had felt the same spirit that
was with the Apostles and with the priest-
hood in this land.
	Patriarch John A. Woolf addressed the
conference: “The labors of the sisters run
in a different channel to those of the breth
ren, but all is for the building up of the
kingdom of God.” Spoke upon the law of
tithing, we would be judged from the
books and we want our names written in
the Book of the Lord. Our children should
be taught to pay their tithing that they may
not neglect this duty when grown, they
should also be taught obedience to the
priesthood. Mothers have a great deal of
influence with their children, also with their
husbands.
	Brother C. O. Card spoke upon the law
of tithing, ten thousand members of this
Church had cut themselves short of the
blessings of God. Advised the Saints to
pay their debts and endeavor to keep out.
Spoke upon the product of cheese and but-
ter making, advised the Saints to be self-
sustaining in these and other things, as far
as possible, and not depend altogether on
imported goods. Gave many good in-
structions upon temporal matters. If we
are united, our labors will be light; if we
keep the commandments of God, we will
soon have a Temple in our midst.
	Singing, “O, my Father.” Benediction
by Counselor Thomas Duce.
