[Column 1]
   REPORT OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
    The National Council of Women of the
United States held its annual business ses-
sion in Minneapolis Minnesota, this year,
by invitation of the Local Council of that
city. These meetings were set for Novem-
ber 13, 14, and 15, 1900, but from the
multiplicity of business to be transacted, it
was not possible to close the executive
meetings until Friday, November 16, at
one p. m., and even then some matters
were left over to be finished by the
General officers.
    These were indeed most interesting
meetings of this great Council, and the
Minneapolis ladies proved their generous
hospitality and welcome, as well as sym-
pathy with the cause of woman’s work in
many ways, that gave the Council good
and lasting impressions of their warm-
heartedness and nobility; also of the Mayor
and citizens of that enterprising and rapidly
growing city of the far-famed Minnehaha.
    We regret that the weather was so in-
clement when the meetings closed that we
could not venture out to see those beautiful
falls mentioned by one of our greatest
American poets in the favorite poem
“Hiawatha.”
    On Monday, November 12, a luncheon
was given by the ladies of the Relief Corps
of that Post at half past one, at the Nicolet
Hotel, in honor of their General-President,
Mrs. Mary L. Carr, of Denver, and the
officers of the Council. Only a few ladies
had yet arrived, but we who had come in
early were royally welcomed. The parlors
were gaily decorated and the banquet pre-
pared was on a magnificent scale. Hand-

[Column 2]
some menu cards and a beautiful rose were
provided for each guest, and the tables ar-
ranged in the form of the letter T were set
for fifty persons. Mrs. Morrison, chaplain
of the St Paul Lodge, pronounced the blessing
and the most social geniality prevailed
among the guests. The president of the
Minnesota Post gave a tribute of welcome
to her superior officer, the General-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Carr, to which the lady replied
in fitting words of goodfellowship and love
for the cause for which they unitedly stood.
One or two others of the local Relief Corps
spoke, and officers of the Council, including
the writer, complied briefly with the polite
request. Mrs. Higbee and the other Past
presidents of the Local Council of Minne-
apolis each added a few choice words of
greeting and welcome, making the affair “a
feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
    The same evening a reception was given
by these ladies in the parlors of the Nicolet
Hotel, quite a number of gentlemen also
being present, Grand Army men and other
citizens mingling in the brilliant affair.
Many handsome costumes were worn and
decorations of the order and flags and ban-
ners were quite conspicuous. Patriotic
musical selections by the band; and fruit
punch was served by young girls in soft,
dainty silk and organdy dresses of the most
approved styles, with ribbons and laces to
match. It was a festive occasion and one
full of pleasant memories of the grand
women who are interested in the home and
the state of Minnesota, and the welfare of
the world. Such women are growing in
numbers throughout this great and free
Republic. Mrs. McCune arrived in time
for the evening reception, she having to
travel from Omaha on another route from
the writer.
    On Tuesday from four to six, another
reception was tendered by Mrs. Walker, of
Minneapolis, and other local ladies, to the
Council, at the handsome residence of Mrs.
Walker, who is famous for her philanthropic
work and for her personal help in the way
of culture to the public. Every day, we
were informed, her gallery of choice paint-
ings is thrown open so that the students
and people desiring to avail themselves of
this privilege of cultivating the eye and
heart by gazing upon the workmanship of
great artists, have a wonderful advantage
in this private collection, many of them
gems of great value.
    Here, too, the ladies were entertained
uniquely by a band of girl musicians, who
discoursed sweet strains of music during
the entire time, and the music room and
dining room were beautifully decorated
with a variety of lovely flowers, daintily
scattered about here and there. Tea, coffee
and cocoa, with wafers, candies and cake,
were served to all guests who could leave
the picture gallery long enough to partake
of the dainty refreshments. At the table
we had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Has-
kell, whose father and husband are news-
paper people of the Boston Herald and
Minneapolis Tribune; Mrs. Holman,
daughter of the hostess, and widow of the
Reverend Dr. Holman, who took a tour
through Utah for his health a few years
ago. Mrs. Holman speaks with much
feeling of the kindness received from our
people in the south, and we very much en-
joyed a few minutes conversation with one
who had sojourned for a time among our
people and knew something of their cor-
diality to strangers. She mentioned


