OBITUARY.
	Sister Mary Ann Standring Roberts was born in
Sheffield, England, March 2, 1851. She em-
braced the Gospel in her native land and emi-
grated to Utah with her parents, John and
Elizabeth Cutler, in the year 1864. She was mar-
ried to Edwin Standring, Februrary 28, 1878. She
was the mother of two children, a daughter and a
son. Her son, John Edwin, survives her. She
was left a widow in the year 1888, and in March
1896, became the wife of John Roberts, Jun. She
was appointed assistant secretary of the Relief
Society in 1879, and in 1882 was sustained as
secretary, which position she held until the time of
her death. From the year 1888 she, in connection
with others, had charge of the Primary depart-
ment of the Sunday School. Her death occurred
on July 13, 1900, at Lehi, Utah Co.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has called from
our midst our dear sister, Mary Ann Standring
Roberts; and
	Whereas, We, the members of the Relief Society,
have been called to mourn the loss of a faithful
officer, a firm friend and a true Latter-day Saint,
therefore, be it
	Resolved, That We cherish her memory and
endeavor to emulate her noble example.
	Resolved, That we should extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, who mourn the loss
of a devoted wife, mother and sister.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, published in the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT and also placed on the records of the
Relief Society.
						SARAH T. EVANS,
						HANNAH JONES,
						SABINA CANDLAND,
					(In behalf of the Relief Society.)
	Lehi, Utah.
	It becomes our painful duty to record the death
of our beloved sister, Lavina Haigh Glenn, who
departed this life, July 12, 1900. She was born


August 21, 1853. Sister Glenn embraced the
Gospel in her native land, England, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1869. She was married to
Alexander Glenn in 1870 and was the mother of
fourteen children, three of whom preceded her to
the “better land.” Five boys and six girls are left
to mourn her loss, and a host of friends. She was
a kind and loving wife and mother and died in
full faith of the Gospel. Sister Glenn was ill for
nine months and the sisters of the Relief Society
fasted and prayed for her, and all was done for
her that was possible to relieve her sufferings, The
sisters of the Relief Society of four wards marched
in front of the casket to the meeting house. The
funeral was largely attended and the floral offer-
ings were beautiful. The Relief Society gave a
beautiful broken circle to show their love for her.
	Whereas, Death has come into our midst and
taken from us our honored sister, whom we all
loved, an earnest supporter and teacher of the Re-
lief Society, be it,
	Resolved, By the members of this society, that
we tended the bereaved family our sincere sym-
pathy and earnestly desire that God will comfort
them in their affliction.
	Resolved, That a copy of resolution be sent
to the family, a copy be placed on record and one
forwarded to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publica-
tion.
						CECELIA C. KIRK,
						MAHALA JENKINS,
									Committee.




August 21, 1853.Sister Glenn embraced-the "
Gospel in her native land, England, and -emi-
grated to Utah in 1869. She was married to
Alexander Glenn in 1870 and was the motherof'
fourteen children, three of whom preceded her to
the “better land.’’" Five boys and six girls are left
to mourn her loss, and a host of friends. She was
a kind and loving wife and mother and died in
full faith of the Gospel. .Sister Glenn was ill for
nine months and the sisters of the Relief Society
fasted and prayed for her, and all was done for
her that was possible to relieve her sufferings, The
sisters of the Relief Society of four wards marched
in front of the casket to the meeting house. . The
funeral was largely attended and the floral offer-
ing s were beautiful. The Relief Society gave a
beautiful broken circle to show their love for her.'
Viercas, Death has come into our midst and
taken from us our honored sister, whom we all
loved, an earnest supporter and teacher of the Re-
lief Society, be it,
Resolved. By the members of this society, that
we tender the bereaved family our sincere sym-
pathy and earnestly desire that God will comfort
them in their affliction.
Resolved, That a copy of this resolution be sent
to the family, a copy be placed on record and one
forwarded to the Woman’s Exponent for publica-
tion. ,-.
-- , Cecelia C. Kirk,-
jr Maiiala Jenkins, r - ... .’LHj..-Committee.


