[Column 1]
holy lives we will be preserved when the
judgments of the Lord are poured out upon 
the wicked.
	The Central ward was reported as having
missed some meetings during the last
quarter on account of the president and
several of the members attending Dr. 
Shipp’s class in obstetrics, but aside from
that they were progressing nicely, although
but few in number,
	The Graham society had had some little
misfortune with their wheat, but had tried
to make the best of it; had adopted the plan
of lecturing in their testimony meetings, 
and find it very good.
	Bishop John Taylor, of Pima, testified 
that water was scarcer than it had ever
been before in this valley, that some of the
grain had not been irrigated for three
months before harvest, yet notwithstanding
this fact we had an average good crop, in
many instances better than when water was
plentiful; he felt to give God the praise.
Urged the sisters to be diligent in paying
their tithing, and asked the blessing of the
Lord upon them.
	The Bryce and Pima branches were re-
ported by their respective presidents as
being in a thriving condition.
	Stake Aid Mary Taylor realized that
through the Relief Society a grest deal of
suffering was averted. We should prepare
ourselves for the events that await us. Said
it is not our mission to tear each other
down, but assist in building up.
	President William Johnson thought the
sisters have as great a labor to perform as
do the brethren, therefore it is just as neces-
sary that the sisters be diligent and faithful
in the performance of their duties as [--]ose
who hold the priesthood. Said the Relief
Society is the greatest aid that a Bishop can
have It is no time to slacken our efforts.
The signs of the times indicate the coming
of the Savior, therefore let us listen to and
obey the commandments of the Lord.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
Singing, “Know this, that every soul is
free.” Prayer by James McBride, senior.
	At 2 p. m. conference met according to
adjournment. Singing “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by Bishop John Taylor.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.”
	President Olive Larson, of Mathewsville,
reported their society as flourishing.
	Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis advised
the sisters to study the articles of organiz-
ation. Be generous and charitable towards
each other and perform our every duty.
	The Eden society was reported as doing
well considering their scattered condition
and few members.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by the secretary, Salina Phillips, who also
reported her visit to the last annual confer- 
ence in Salt Lake.
	Treasurer Maggie Allred read the
treasurer’s report for the six mouths past
and bore testimony to the divinity of the
work.
	Bishop Cluff said the Relief Society is
doing a great work. Asked the spirit of

[Column 2]
God to rest on all, that we might realize
the responsibility resting upon us.
	Rhoda Foster bore her testimony to the
goodness of God to her, said if we are liv-
ing in the line of our duty we can judge
between right and wrong.
	Stake President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Laura Nuttall wished to be obedient to
every call. The duties of Relief Society
members are many and varied; the success
of the society depends on the members.
	President Layton was gratified with the
reports of the different branches, also the
remarks of the previous speakers. Urged
the sisters to subscribe for the EXPONENT,
that they might keep pace with similar
organizations. Spoke of the annual dona-
tion, requested the secretaries to record their
reports and not trust alone to preserving
the blanks.
	Congregation sang “Lord dismiss us”
and benediction was pronounced by
William Johnson.
