[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
	The next Sunday came and I tried hard to
get my oldest brother to go with me to
meeting, but his wife and my mother over-
powered me and prevented him, so I went
alone.
	That day when I arrived there one of the
Elders told me that a new meeting house
had been opened about two miles from
where I lived. This was very good news
to me.
	After the forenoon meeting I went home,
thinking to go to this new place. I asked
my brother if he would go with me and he
said that he would like to go, for he had
heard nothing of Mormonism but what I
had told him. His wife was always un-
willing for him to go, but he went. When
we had gone about half of the way, for the
first time my strength failed me and I
fainted dead away. My brother caught me
and after some time I revived and we pro-
ceeded on our way. It was very dark and
cold and we knew nothing about where the
place of meeting was. My brother called at
a house and asked if they would tell him
where Mr. Coleman lived. They answered
that he was a Mormon and asked if we
were, to which my brother answered
no. Then they told him and after awhile
we succeeded in finding the place.
	Weak and tired as I was when we arrived
we were welcomed by all. They had heard
how I had embraced the Gospel and the
opposition and unkindness I had received.

[Column 2]
Many kind and encouraging words were
spoken to me, advising me to hold fast to
the truth.
	There were several there whom I had 
met in the Methodist chapel, and we were
glad to see each other, and to know that we
had embraced the truth together. Some
bore their testimony, and one lady spoke in
an unknown tougue. This was all new to
me and to my brother. We felt well paid
for the effort we had made. Brother Chris-
topher Layton was one of those who had
joined the Church and left the Methodist
chapel.
	When I reached home that night my
father had just gone up stairs to go to bed.
I started to speak in an unknown tongue.
My mother cried out for father, saying that
those Mormons had bewitched her child;
she seemed much distressed. I could not
stop for some time, but when I could talk I
told that it was common in the Church and
that we had heard it that night in meeting.
I did not know what I had said, but my
mother was never so unkind to me after. I
often thought it was one way of softening
the hearts of my parents.
	I worked hard with my brother all that
week, and on the next Sunday he was bap-
tized; This was in February. After that
I had some one to go with me to meetings.
	Our next task was to get his wife to go
with us. There were people being added
from time to time. In April there were a
great number and among the number was
my brother’s wife. After that we did not
rest until we got our mother to go to the
meetings. She soon began to think that
there was something in Mormonism more
than she had thought. She was well ac-
quainted with the Bible and knew that what
I had told her of the Gospel, and what the
Elders preached was Bible doctrine, and
she became more troubled in her mind, for
she had much sectarian folly to overcome.
She had been a strict Baptist from her
childhood, and never did anything on Sun-
day but go to meeting and read the Bible.
	My father was not at all religious, and did
not care to go anywhere on Sunday, and
that made it hard for mother. But she
tried to bring us up as she had been brought
up, to honor the Sabbath. We labored
hard with her, and finally the prejudice
gave way. The Lord seemed to enlighten
her mind, she overcame her feelings and
about the middle of May she applied for
baptism. That was a day for rejoicing in
our family. I freely forgave all of her un-
kindness to me, for I was so thankful to my
Heavenly Father. From the day of her
baptism she was true to her covenants.
She never went into a sectarian church
again. My father never troubled himself
about where we went and he would not go
with us.
	When the weather was warm enough the
Elders were told to go and hold services in
the streets. My brother and I used to be
one with them, and stand by them while
they preached. I have often been to two
meetings and then walked six miles to at-
tend an open air meeting, then returned;
but I always thought it was the kingdom of
God first. I never feared what any one
thought about me, I tried to live above re-
proach.
	The lady I had done needlework for sent
word that she desired me to do more if I
were well enough, although my mother
had told me that Lady Jane Pym would
not employ me any more if she found that I
was a Mormon. But she did not trouble 

[Column 3]
me. When she sent for me I went to the
mansion and asked to see the lady. In a
few minutes the butler came and took me to
the lady’s room. When I appeared before
her she looked at me and said:
	“Sarah, I am pleased to see you. Are
you able to sew again?”
	I told her that I was. She then spoke of
my not being at church any since I took
sick. I told her no, I had not been there
any, nor I did not intend to go any more,
for I had joined the Mormon Church.
	She looked at me and said, “What, as
young as you are? What do you know
about religion?”
	I said that I did know that the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was right.
	She asked if my mother allowed it, but I
told her that the Lord had shown me that
it was right and I joined for myself. I
was then asked whether I could tell her
what I believed, and then I explained to
her that we believed in faith in God, re-
pentance, baptism for the remission of sins
and the laying on of hands for the gift of
Holy Ghost; also that we believed in the
Bible and the Book of Mormon. There
were no more questions this time, but told
me to go the work room and tell the maid
to get me what I wanted.
	When I went again she sent for me to
come to her room. On entering she began
questioning me about our Church. These
I answered as well as I could. I then
asked her if she would not like to read
the Book of Mormon. She expressed a de-
sire to read it, so I brought it for her. I
used to ask the Lord before I went to give
me wisdom to talk to her, for she was a
bright, educated lady, while I was an illi-
terate person, and untrained. I took her
the book and she kept it about six weeks,
and when she gave it to me she said that it
was a wonderful book. Her husband,
Squire Pym, was greatly interested in it, so
she said. I offered to lend them some
tracts to read, which she accepted, and I
took them to her. She had known me from
my childhood and had known my father
and mother many years. They knew I
had never been taught these things by
man, and whenever I would take my
work to her she would not only sit and
listen to me explain the Gospel in my weak
way but would have her oldest daughter
come in and listen. They were always
very kind to me and I felt very anxious
that everybody should understand the Gos-
pel, for I was as sure that it was the truth
restored to earth as I was that the sun rose.
	When I was in my seventeenth year I
had another sick spell, but was often ad-
ministered to by the Elders. There was a
law in England that compelled every one
to have a doctor in attendance when sick-
ness came, for that reason I was obliged to
have the doctor come. I have never had
very good health. And I sometimes think
that it is for my good; had I always been
well I might have wandered from the path
of truth and right, for I had such a strong
will-power. I always had a desire to lead
out in some way that I thought would be
profitable to me. I used to work very hard 
with my needle, and I was taught never to
spend my time idly; for before I was six
years old I had made enough of what was
called pillow lace to buy me a new dress.
That dress I shall always remember, for
young as I was my mother let me select it
for myself. It was a green and white, and
was never so proud of any other dress.


