[Column 1]
“THE WORLD IS UP IN ARMS.”
	The commotion of the world at the pres-
ent time is almost incredible. Civilization
and enlightenment have reached such high
ground that it is hard to believe that such a
tempest of nations should have set in.
Using a very old fashioned phrase, “The.
whole world is up in arms.”
	Notwithstanding the earnest and strenu-
ous efforts that have been made during the
last few years to bring about settlements of
difficulties by arbitration, there seems to be
a tremendous power brought to bear to
overthrow and break down all barriers that
serve as safeguards to human life and lay
waste the countries and nations in a uni-
versal war, that shall involve all govern-
ments, however exclusive they may have
been heretofore.
	Beginning with Cuba and the war with
Spain, a spirit of war has gathered as it
were, all its forces, to kill and destroy, with-
out mercy, until it is horrible to contem-
plate. And there seems no alternative un-
less a power more potent than the puny
hand of man be brought into requisition to
stay the deadly weapons of warfare and the
terrible grasp of the adversary of peace and
good will in its devastating and downward
course. The torch of liberty, of which
America as a nation has boasted, is not
lighting the world as it should do, and men
are not paving the way for that PEACE chat
surpasseth understanding while their hands
are literally or indirectly imbued in the
blood of their fellowmen.
	No wonder the disciples of Jesus said “In
the last days perilous times shall come and
men’s hearts shall fail them,” and so on, if
nations will persist in making war upon one
another, as they are doing today. How
can those ignorant of God and His laws be
taught the better way, the precepts of the
Savior, “Love thy neighbor,” if educated,
cultured people, who profess to lead the
world in its higher advancement, only fol-
low the same methods of subduing the
powers that oppose as those who have
never known Christ and Him crucified, or
heard of the true plan of salvation preached
and taught by the Savior and His Apostles?
	The Chinese problem may be a very dif-
ficult one to wrestle with, but it cannot
better conditions to kill until every sort of
diplomatic intervention has been tried.
China has great resources of which we at a

[Column 2]
distance know very little; and what will it
avail to send a few thousand brave men to
fall at the hands of her millions, and how
can it be expected to answer the desired end?
	Meantime what can women do who have
reared these brave men who now go out to
battle at the country’s call? It is noble to
defend one’s own country and its honor and
institutions, and yet even then the cause
must be justifiable where blood is to be
shed. Surely it is time now for deep and
earnest thought and every effort should be
put forth to bring about peaceful reconcili-
ation instead of boasting of skill and
strength to compete with other nations. It
is far better to offer heavy rewards for all
foreigners in China delivered alive than to
attempt to cope with their cunning in the
use and manipulation of implements of de-
struction. What avail is the learning of the
whole world if it will not help us to set
better examples of righteousness than those
maintained by force of arms, called into
question every time a difficulty arises?
	And again, meantime women must wait
and watch and pray, and the armies of
women who pray will be more than
the armies of men who slay; and the
Lord will hear and answer their
prayers in His own due time; but as faith
without works is dead they must work
diligently and lay the foundation of such
principles in their sons as shall lead them
to higher and holier purposes in the govern
ment of the world than going to war with
intent to kill. The time is coming, how-
ever far off it may seem at present, when
swords will be beaten into plongh-shares
and spears into pruning hooks. May God
speed the day!!!
	Looking at conditions now it seems use
less to allude to such a time; and yet it is
nevertheless the prophecy of the future by
the greatest men and women—poets, sages,
seers and philosophers; and why should we
not believe in the best for the human race?
Tennyson foresaw it; Isaiah foreshadowed
such a time, and when even the
beasts of the field, the lamb and the
lion, should lie down together. And,
therefore, women need not despair though
all seems dark today as far as peace among
the nations is concerned; yet the silent
forces that are working and the heartfelt
prayers of the tens of thousands
of mothers that are offered daily will reach
the ears of the Omnipotent, and truth and
righteousness will eventually triumph, the
earth will be redeemed and Satan will be
bound.
	But woman will have to do her part in
this work of redemption, and there will be
both wise and foolish virgins, undoubtedly.
It will be the duty of all to study the ques-
tions as presented by the events that tran-
spire from day to day and from time to time
and not be led into error, but walk in the Gos-
pel light and listen to the still small voice
within. More especially should the women
of the Latter-day Saints, who have had
great opportunities of knowing concerning
the future and God’s dealings with the
children of men, study those grave and
serious questions, for where much is given
much is required. Let your light so shine
that others seeing your good works may be
stimulated to follow in your footsteps.


CONTRARY to all preconceived ideas, a
greater number of men than of women,
says the Chicago census enumerators, re-
fused to tell their ages.


