[Column 1]
dent, Bishop J. R. Winder, and the Board
of Directors, to urge the people to bring
forward exhibits, and the able and efficient
secretary, S. W. Sears, worked during the
year with an indomitable will and persever-
ance to make the State Fair an unparalleled
success for Utah.
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Aseembly Hall, in
this city, Thursday, October 4, commenc-
ing at 10 a. m., president Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Meeting opened by
singing “Now let us rejoice,” etc., led by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Mrs. Ida Daynes
Cannon accompaniest. Prayer by President
M. Isabella Horne. Singing, “Let us pray
gladly pray,” etc. Roll called, responses
from seventeen presidents, eleven counselors
and seven by other representatives.
Minutes of the April conference read and
approved.
	Miss Lutie Grant sang a solo very sweet-
ly, title, “One Sweetly Solemn Thought.”
	President Young made an address of wel-
come and of greeting to the sisters in her
usual motherly way. She rejoiced to see
their faces and appreciated their presence.
Spoke upon the sacrament and urged those
present not to neglect the privilege of par-
taking of the sacrament, and to put aside
all unkindness and they would receive the
blessing promised. Sister Zina spoke
beautifully upon humility and faith and
reverence for those who bore the holy
priesthood. She remarked that we none of
us know what the Lord has in store for us,
therefore we should be united and humble,
that we may be prepared for all the events
of Providence, for we must be tried in all
things.
	President Mary L. Woolf, Alberta Stake,
Canada, was glad to see the faces of the
aged sisters, those whom she had known
and had heard of all her life. She realized
they were growing old and feeble and
needed the support and help of younger
women. Sister Woolf felt we as sisters en-
joyed the greatest blessings of any women
on the earth, in connection with Mother
Eve, in bearing the souls of men, though
we feel very weak sometimes. Spoke of
her twelve children and thought tho’ we
might have trials and afflictions, we should
bear them heroically and ask for strength to
overcome. Referred to herself and counsel-
ors visiting the Stake, accompanied by
Sister Card, who was now an Aid in the
society. They felt very happy in visiting
from place to place, and encouraging and
stimulating the sisters to good works and
renewed efforts in the path of duty.
Thought we should teach our children the
benefit of prayer and the use of the conse-
crated oil in administering to the sick; re-
lated some instances concerning this in her
own family. When the Savior was on the
earth He said to Peter “Knowest thou me ?”
And when Peter replied, Jesus said to him,
“Then feed my sheep.” The speaker felt
we should strive to carry out this saying of
the Savior by giving spiritual food to the
people and to the children.
	Counselor Sarah Jane Hostetter, of San
Luis Stake, Colorado, said their Stake was
more prosperous than it had ever been
heretofore. The sisters were erecting two
new buildings. In their Stake Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp had been teaching obstetrics and
nursing in Sanford, and she had done a
good work there. They enjoyed the

[Column 2]
EXPONENT and read from it in their meet-
ings. She felt they were improving. She
rejoiced to be in Utah and in visiting this
city, it was her first visit here. She had
only been twelve years in the Church, and
she wanted to learn concerning the work
and to retain all she could.
	Mary N. James, the representative from
San Juan Stake, said the sisters in Bluff
were going to build in the spring. They
had a good share of material on hand, were
going to build of stone, they appreciated the
EXPONENT, used it in their meetings. She
referred to the Navajo blanket she had
brought with her to send by Sister Emily
S. Richards to the National Suffrage Baazar
in New York City. It was a very elegant
one made entirely by a Navajo woman in
their settlement.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, St George
Stake, Utah, said she had visited all the
branches in the Stake except the White
River settlement, “which we intend visiting
as soon as I return home. We have some
wheat on hand and are helping in many
directions to build up the country. We
have been very successful this year in the
silk industry and we know that the words
of President Young are true in regard to
sericulture. It is an employment for our
children as well as the older people, and we
must teach habits of industry and economy
if we expect to be prospered in our efforts.”
	Sister Zina spoke a few words upon the
silk industry, urging the sisters to carry out
the counsel that had been given by Presi-
dent Brigham Young, and the Lord would
add His blessing to their efforts.
	Sister Caroline Stringam represented
Uintah Stake. In her remarks she referred
to a revelation of Joseph Smith, the prophet,
in the Doctrine and Covenants in regard to
those who have talents and hide them, and
realized that the Lord would call us to ac-
count for not making use of our opportunities
to do good. She spoke earnestly to the
young mothers upon the training of children
and gave some instances of how her own
methods had succeeded with young boys in
her own neighborhood. Felt that the souls
of these young men were precious in the
sight of the Lord. There were really no
poor to be cared for in that locality, but the
sick were properly attended to by the Relief
Society sisters.
	Congregation sang Doxology. Benedic-
tion by Professor C. J. Thomas.
	Afternoon session. Singing by the
Twentieth Ward Y. L. M. I. A. choir led,
by Mrs. Mary F. Kelly, Mrs. Ida Daynes
Cannon, accompaniest, “There Shall be
Showers of Blessings.” Prayer by Presi-
dent Thomas Ricks. Singing, “Some One
Will Meet at the Pearly Gates, Shall You ?
Shall I?”
	President M. I. Horne was the first
speaker. Her remarks were upon union
and faithfulness, the strict observing of the
Sabbath day, the partaking of the sacrament
in the right spirit, with clean hands and a
pure heart; and “we are laying the found-
ation for a great future hereafter. We
must pursue a course that will elevate
humanity. While we are doing this chari-
table work we must seek to benefit all that
are in need, but be wise and careful in our
judgment of all matters.”
	Sister Horne then explained about the
class in nursing, referred to what had been
done in the past by Dr. Roberts and the
good work she had accomplished. Prayed
the Lord to bless the sisters in their labors
and said many other good things.

[Column 3]
	President Sarah J. Cannon was delighted
to see so many of the Mothers in Israel.
Felt we had a great deal to do and we needed
wisdom and the Spirit of the Lord to aid us
at all times. She had felt very much blest in
her labors in the Relief Society. She had
been much interested in the minutes of our
last conference that were read in the morn-
ing session. We must teach our children
the Gospel, know where they are, do this
duty and not leave the others undone. Let us
do all our duties, pay our tithing and be
charitable. Sister Cannon remarked that
she had been acquainted with all the
prophets since the days of Joseph Smith and
knew of their divine mission and teachings.
	President B. W. Smith felt happy in
meeting with so many of our good sisters
and hoped the time would come when we
would have more, realized we were on the
increase. “We want the young women
and young girls. I was young myself, not
twenty, when I joined the Relief Society at
the first organization. We want to teach
our children to be honest, truthful and in-
dustrious, pay our tithing, keep the Sab-
bath day holy and have our children attend
meetings and partake of the sacrament.
And, sisters, let us keep out of debt, not be
using other people’s means. We want to
build a house for the Relief Society in this
city, bring our mites together and see what
we can do towards it. The Lord will bless
us in our undertakings if we perform every
duty.”
	President Emma S. Woodruff reported
the Granite Stake. They had fourteen or
fifteen branches, one new branch recently
organized. They had visited all around.
She was glad to have the opportunity to
testify to the work in which we are engaged.
“Let us be consistent Latter-day Saints,
keep the word of wisdom and do our Tem-
ple work. Liked to see the Temple full doing
the work for those behind the veil. Hoped
to be faithful and true in all things.
	Counselor Mary Bagley, Bear Lake Stake:
“As Sister Lindsay, our president, was not
well enough to attend this conference she
wished me to represent the Stake. Al-
though our president is seventy-seven years
old she made the trip around the county
this summer. The Lord has blest her in
many ways. She has presided now twenty-
one years and I feel blest that I am able to
travel around with her. There is no
greater blessing than to be Mothers in
Israel in the Relief Society.”
	Sister Lindsay knew Joseph Smith and
frequently bore testimony to his divine mis-
sion. “I pray the Lord to bless these aged
sisters who have been so valiant for the
truth.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards showed the
ladies the Navajo blanket which had been
sent from San Juan County, to be on ex-
hibition at the Woman Suffrage Bazaar in
New York City in December. She invited
the sisters to assist in the effort being made
by the Utah Woman’s Council, by giving
five cent donations, which would be grate-
fully received or any article suitable for
such a purpose that might be on sale in the
Bazaar to increase the fund. Also spoke of
the circular letter published in the Deseret
News October 3, and thought the young
ladies should encourage this undertaking.
	Sister Julina L. Smith spoke of our chil-
dren and their home training and habits.
Felt it important they should go to Sunday
School and attend meetings. Educate our
boys for missionaries and our girls to make
good wives and mothers. She had recently


