[Column 1]
THE PHILIPPINE SITUATION.
	The Filipino revolutionary government
and army no longer exist. In fact, there is
not a single regimental organization now to
be found. It is true armed bands of
Guerillas, more or less numerous, are har-
assing our troops and preventing the re-
turn of their own people to peaceful occu-
pations.
	Only a small proportion of the number of
natives have been in arms against us, the
rest are friendly and anxious for peace.
While they have suffered terribly it has not
been at our hands. In fact, the head men
of many of the towns captured by our
forces have voluntarily borne testimony

[Column 2]
to the good conduct of our soldiers. Even
such armed resistance as remains, although
it may be troublesome during the present
rainy season, will doubtless disappear on
the advent of the next dry season.
	Now the presidential election is over the
Filipinoes will no longer receive and dis-
tribute among the insurgents the anti-ad-
ministration speeches which are received by
the natives, who are strangers to the election
tactics in America. The distribution of
such material has led the natives to believe
that if Mr. Bryan should be elected the
American troops would be withdrawn, and
they would be left to govern themselves in
any way they might see fit. This, how-
ever, is a totally impossible condition. In
the first place, only a portion of Tagalos,
who number not over a million and a half,
have been fighting or working for indepen-
dence, the remainder of them, as well as a
majority of the other seven or eight millions
of the population, are favorable to us, and
the same is true of the foreign residents.
	The Filipinoes as a whole are certainly
not at present capable of establishing and
maintaining an independent government.
We have assumed obligations that must be
fulfilled. We have destroyed the governing
power of Spain which offered protection to
foreign property, foreign capital and foreign
inhabitants, and in some measure, at least,
had given the natives a semblance of civil
and municipal self-government. We are
bound in honor to substitute for it a govern-
ment which will give to foreigners a larger
measure of freedom and protection, and to
the Filipinoes not only more liberty, but a
more comprehensive and generous scheme
of self-government as well.
	General Otis was released from duty in
the Philippines at his own request. Ill
health was the cause of his leaving his post
where he had served so long and so efficient-
ly. General McArthur succeeded him on
May 1. General Otis approved a scheme of
municipal government before he left that
gives to the Philippines for the first time
the right of suffrage in the election of
officers and the establishing of town govern-
ment. Bishop Henry C. Potter has just re-
turned from Manila with the most un-
qualified praise of General Otis. He be-
lieves that we should stay there now, that
we could not get out honorably if we
would.
	The new Philippine commission has been
completed. Judge Taft, of Cincinnati, has
been elected chairman. Mr. Dean C.
Worchester, of the old commission, has
been retained and Judge Henry C. Ide, of
Vermont, General Luke E. Wright, of
Tennessee, and Professor Barnard Moses, of
California, have been appointed. The
commission is well constituted for organiz-
ing and establishing civil government in
the Philippines. They arrived in Manila
in June and announced that no attempt
would be made at present to supercede the
military executive. General McArthur is
competent to perform the duties of Governor
until the country is ready to receive a sys-
tem of civil administration. That Luzon,
at least, is not yet prepared for such a
change, is made clear by daily reports of
brigandage and armed resistance to
authority in very many parts of the
island. Organized insurrection is no longer
a fact, the archives of Aguinaldo's govern-
ment were seized by General Funston in
May. In June a far more important cap-
ture was made in the person of General

[Column 3]
Pis-del-Pilar, long regarded as the ablest
military leader in the Philippines.
	The work of our army in Luzon is de-
scribed by General Schwan in a letter
recently made public by the War Depart-
ment. The garrisons of the interior and
coast towns of Luzon are commanded by
young, energetic majors, who are leaving
nothing undone to perform with thorough-
ness the special task set them. This task
includes the suppression of guerilla bands,
and also open schools and establishing
municipal government. These things are
in course of accomplishment, the greatest
obstacle is the lack of confidence between the
soldiers and the inhabitants, which he be-
lieves will pass away when each class be-
comes better acquainted with the customs,
aims and standards of the other.
	The Philippine commission has chosen
Professor Fred N. Atkinson as superin-
tendent of instruction in the islands.  There
are 5,000 children in the city schools of
Manila, under the superintendency of
Professor George P. Anderson, a Yale
graduate. The teachers of these schools are
eighty-five natives, forty Panjards and
twenty-two Americans.
	On June 21 General McArthur promul-
gated an amnesty proclamation at Manila
under which many Filipino leaders have
accepted the authority of the United States.
General Pis del-Pilar, for example, is now
working harmoniously with General
McArthur, and has been traveling and per-
suading armed insurgents to accept the
amnesty terms.
