LETTER FROM BROOKLYN.
Dear Sister:
	A few months ago you wrote a letter to
President Garrett, of the Brooklyn Confer-
ence, in reference to the new branch of the
Relief Society just organized. I ask your
pardon for not acknowledging the same,
	The society was organized May 12. In
July the president of the society was forced
to resign, owing to her leaving Brooklyn.
The society was reorganized and at present
we are in good and regular standing, having
a roll call of fifteen members.
	We meet twice a month; one meeting is
devoted to business, taking in new members
and devising plans for the good of
the society; the other meeting is de-
voted to testimonies, readings and anything
that will help the spiritual growth of the
society. We feel we have a great work to
do here in Brooklyn to help forward the
cause of truth and to be an example to the
world of what our Elders teach, and our
worthy president, Miss Agnes Rose Lane, is
anxious for any suggestions or methods we
may not have that will help us in our work.
	We have given an entertainment which
proved very successful, both as a social and
financial affair, enabling us to raise the
means to help those requiring assistance;
several are in need of relief. I am sure you
will be pleased to hear from us and we ask
an interest in your prayers that we may be
in love and unity with each other, serving
our Master as opportunities are given us.
	Hoping to hear from you at an early date,
and with God bless you in your noble work,
I am your sister in the Gospel,
		BELLE SHAFFER,
			Secretary Brooklyn R. S.


MADAME JULES SIMON, the widow of
the noted French statesman died on Sep-
tember 21. Mme. Simon was one of the
first International Congress of Women’s
Work in Paris, the first body of women to
meet under the auspices of a national
government. At the second congress held
in Paris, in June of this year, Mme. Simon
was elected an honorary vice-president. A
memento of commemorative appreciation of
the services of her illustrious husband.


