[Column 1]
MISS AMERICAN’S VISIT.
	Miss Sadie American, who recently paid
a visit to Utah, is a typical Jewess, well and
favorably known throughout this country.
She is the corresponding secretary of the
National Council of Jewish Women of the
U. S., and is a woman of strong character
and pronounced opinions. She is a con-
spicuous figure in Washington at the trien-
nials of the National Council and always
commands the attention of the audience
wherever she speaks because of her brilliant
originality and vigorous speech. She im-
presses one as feeling and believing in what
she endeavors to impart to others. She
made a good impression at the Congress in
London when she read a paper in the Large
Hall. Westminister Town Hall, on Vaca-
tion Schools. Much of her work has been
along this line and she has been very suc-
cessful. Miss American spoke a few words
in the large Tabernacle in this city on Sun-
day, June 17, although the Scandinavians
were holding their Jubilee and indeed it
seemed quite appropriate, considering she
represented a people whose origin was of
the orient. During her visit she was the
recipient of many favors from the Jewish

[Column 2]
people of Salt Lake, whose guest she was,
and from the two great societies N. W. R. S.
Y.L.M.I.A. represented in N. C. W. of U.
S., which we have every reason to believe
she fully appreciated. Miss American was
accompanied by her mother, Mrs. American,
who shared in the good wishes and hospi-
tality extended to the talented daughter.
	On Monday afternoon Mrs. Ida M.
Bamberger gave a reception in honor of
Miss American at her elegant home in this
city, which was a most enjoyable affair.
The house was simply a bower of roses and
palms, and the music of a fine band of
string instruments was enchanting. A
number of lovely young girls, who had
just been admitted to the Sacrament,
dressed in the white in which they had
received their initiation to the Jewish syna-
gogue waited upon the guests, who num-
bered hundreds coming and going during
the afternoon. The refreshments were
dainty and refreshing, and served in most
elegant style. Mrs. Bamberger’s mother,
Mrs. Maas, of Cincinnati, had arrived unex-
pectedly just in time to be one more guest
of honor and add to the enjoyment of the
party. Mrs. Bamberger may congratulate
herself on giving so much genuine pleasure
to those who availed themselves of this
rare opportunity of meeting Miss and Mrs.
American and Mrs. Maas and taking part
in the social conversation besides enjoying
the music and flowers and the friendly
atmosphere that prevaded the beautiful
home of the hostess.
	On Tuesday morning Miss American
spoke to the Salt Lake Jewish Council in
their own meeting, called especially for
the purpose of listening to one who had
had a large experience in matters of inter-
est to them. Tuesday afternoon a luncheon
was given at the Lagoon in her honor by
the Jewish ladies to which a number of
other guests were invited, and it was a
most enjoyable affair, notwithstanding the
heat. The banquet (for indeed it was) was
served in the most hospitable fashion and
the arrangement of the party altogether
was admirable, indeed there was nothing
lacking on the part of Mr. and Mrs.
Bamberger that would add to the pleasure
and happiness of the day.
	Wednesday, June 20, a Lake party of
about a hundred ladies was given at Saltair
in honor of Miss American. Mrs Minnie
J. Snow kindly tendered the car which con-
veyed the guests thither. Mrs. Snow was
not able to attend the gatherings in honor of
Miss American, on account of the illness of
President Snow at that time, but we were
favored to have her present to participate in
the festivities at the Lake. Miss American
thoroughly enjoyed the bath in the beauti-
ful Salt Sea of America and we believe her
trip to the Lake will be one of the bright
spots in her visit to Utah. Refreshments 
were served in the most informal way, but
seasoned with happy converse. Mrs. Susa
Young Gates acted as toastmistress, and is
certainly complete mistress of this difficult
role. The first toast called for was
“Women from the West,” and was re-
sponded to by Mrs. E. B. Wells, in a sort
of welcome to the distinguished guest of the
occasion. Miss American responded in a
delightful manner and with much feeling,
to the sentiment, “Women from the Far
East,” in which she spoke of her pleasant
acquaintance with the Utah Women whom
she had met and become attached to in the
National Council.


Mrs. Simon Bamberger, “Friendship’s
Ties,” was graphically portrayed in a gra-
cious manner. Miss Rose Goldberg (a
prospective bride) spoke tenderly and
beautifully to the toast “Old Hopes, Old
Friends, Old Times.” Her words were
aptly chosen and her manner simply de-
lightful. “The Link Between the
School and the World,” responded to by
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker, was characteristic
of this scholarly woman, who is conversant
with matters of both social and educational
nature in the community. “Speed the
Parting Guest,” by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow,
was fittingly appropriate, and both in spirit
and effect a beautiful close to the enjoyable
and friendly feeling that had pervaded the
intercourse of the few days visit of Miss
American. All good wishes attend her in
her summer vacation and rest in California,
the land of flowers.


