[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Box
Elder Stake was held in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, June 12, 1900, President S.
P. Booth presiding. Singing “Awake ye
Saints of God, awake.” Prayer by Counselor
Louisa Peters. Singing, “How great the
joy that promised day.”
	The Stake officers were present on the
stand and of the General Board Jane S.
Richards and Emmeline B. Wells, also
Sarah A. Herrick, of Ogden.
	Minutes of the previous conference,
morning session, were read by the secretary
and accepted.
	President S. P. Booth was pleased to
be able to meet under such favorable cir-
cumstances and wished to give as much
time as possible to our visitors.
	President Jensen, of Mantua, President
Summerville, of Honeyville, President
Annie S. Johnson, of the First Ward,
Brigham City, gave favorable reports of
their respective wards.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of our
own imperfections, if we were perfect our-

[Column 2]
selves we would have no mercy or charity
for others. The sisters of the Relief Society
are doing their part to help along. Coun-
seled the sisters to be united.
	Sister Sarah A. Herrick, of Ogden, took
great pleasure in listening to the minutes,
good always comes from doing our duty.
	President Hubbard, of Willard, spoke of
the blessings of the Lord that will be given
to all who keep His commandments.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “Come follow me.” Benediction by
Counselor Amelia Madsen.
	Afternoon session. Singing “Come
dearest Lord descend and dwell.” Prayer
by Counselor David P. Burt. Singing “Ye
simple souls who stray.” Roll called, show-
ing thirteen wards present out of sixteen.
Minutes of the previous conference, after-
noon session, were read by the correspond-
ing secretary and accepted. The Stake re-
ports were also read.
	Counselor David P. Burt then presented
the following names of sisters who had been
selected as officers in the Third ward Re-
lief Society, Brigham City: President,
Lizzie Burt; counselors, Emma Lee and
Frederica Peterson; secretary, Maria
Phillips; assistant secretary, Rose Keeley;
treasurer, Sophia Thompson. Fourth
Ward: President, Sarah Wilde; counselors,
Elizabeth Wright and Martena Pulsipher;
secretary, Lulu B. Call; assistant secretary,
Emily Brown; treasurer, Maria Hansen.
	The officers were all unimously sustained.
Sister E. B. Wells addressed the conference.
Spoke of the growth of the Relief Society,
its great magnitude and made a specialty of
silk culture, encouraging all to do what-
ever they could towards advancing the im-
portant industry; also spoke impressively
on the high calling and privileges of the
women of Zion, the great blessing the Re-
lief Society had been to all who had been
members, and what a superior education
might be acquired through laboring in this
organization for practical charity and the
uplifting of humanity. Urged the young
sisters to take part in the work. Spoke
feelingly of obedience and faithfulness in
attending to our duties.
	Sister Jane S. Richards related her
past experience; we have to be reconciled
to things that take place. Advised the
younger sisters to join the Relief Society.
	President S. P. Boothe made a few
closing remarks, and after singing Doxology
benediction was pronounced by President
Ella Watkins. Conference adjourned until
September.
		OLIVE BYWATER, Cor. Sec.
				Box Elder Stake R. S.
	P. S. After the close of the conference
an officers meeting was held in which many
questions were asked and much good in-
struction was given to those desiring in-
formation.
BEAVER STAKE.
	Conference of the Beaver Stake Relief
Society was held in the Society hall, in
Beaver City, Utah, May 11, 1900, com-
mencing at ten o’clock a. m.
	Present on the stand of the sisters were
Stake President C. C. Shepherd and
Counselors M. A. White; Ward Presidents
J. W. Bickley, Winnie Miller, and Susan
Roberts; Vice-Presidents M. A. Tolton and
Sarah Walker; of the brethren, Bishops
George Mumford, George Eyres and others.
	Meeting opened by singing “I saw a
mighty angel fly.” Prayer by Elder John


