[Column 1]
DAUGHTERS OF THE REVOLUTION.
	Undoubtedly the ladies have read the
account of the eighth annual meeting of the
D. R. that appeared in Harper’s Bazaar
of May 6. This article is written by Miss
A. W. Sterling and deals principally with
the question of the union of the D. R. and
the D. A. R.
	Then Miss Snow has told you in a very
eloquent manner of the journey of the dele-
gation to the place of meeting, and of their
reception in Philadelphia. Consequently it
will be unnecessary for me to say very
much on either of the above mentioned
subjects. I shall try not to repeat the
things already told, and shall, as nearly as
possible, confine myself to a brief descrip-
tion of the places visited, which are all of
the greatest importance to the Daughters of
the Revolution. And there is so little in-
formation that can be obtained about many
of the sites, except by a visit to the spot it-
self.
	Washington, our nation’s capital, is cer-
tainly rich in historic relics, as well as in
its artistic beauty, though its foundation
dates from a period after the Revolution.
All of the Government buildings, the
Library of Congress, the Museum and Art
Gallery are a credit to any country, but as
Daughters of the Revolution the places and
characters that figure so conspicuously in
our Revolution are the dearest to us. We
are told that Washington himself selected
the site of the White House and planned
its erection, but John Adams was the first
occupant. Perhaps there is not another
spot in America that appeals to us in just
the same way as does Mt. Vernon—and I
wish to speak of this particularly, as it is to
a woman’s courage and energy that we owe
the preservation of this “shrine of patriot-
ism.” This property we know belonged to
Lawrence Washington, a half brother of
George’s, and several years his senior.
Lawrence built the Manor House and called
it after Admiral Vernon, under whom he
sailed and for whom he cherished the
warmest friendship. On the death of
Lawrence and his only daughter, George
inherited Mt. Vernon. It was from this

[Column 2]
spot he was called to the field of battle,
from this spot he was called to be president
of the United States and from this spot his
magnificent soul took its flight to higher
regions. I was much impressed by the
following quotation which is printed in the
library at Mt. Vernon, and was written by
Dr. Andrew Reed, an eminent English
philanthropist, on visiting the tomb of
Washington in 1833:
			Washington
The Brave	The Wise		The Good
			Washington,
	Supreme in War, in Council and in Peace,
Valiant		Discreet		Confident
			Washington,
Without		Without		Without
Ambition		Fear			Presumption
			Washington,
In disaster calm, in success moderate, in all, Himself,
			Washington,
The Hero		The Patriot	The Christian
The Father of Nations the friend of Mankind,
			who,
	When he had won all, renounced all
			and sought
	In the bosom of his family and of nature
			Retirement,
		And in the hope of religion,
			Immortality.
	Every spot of ground and every article in
any way connected with our hero is sacred
to us, but of all the things that were con
nected with Washington, from the cradle to
the grave, there was nothing else that ap-
pealed to me so strongly as did his swords,
which I knew had never been drawn in any
cause but that of right and humanity. Three
of these hang in a case in the main hall at
Mt. Vernon, and beneath the case contain-
ing them is the following clause taken from
his will:
	These swords are accompanied with the injunction
not to unsheath them for the purpose of shedding
blood except it be for self-defence, or in defence of
their country and its rights; and in the latter case
to keep them unsheathed and prefer falling with
them in their hands to the relinquishment thereof
	In 1855 John Augustine Washington was
unable to keep the estate of Mt. Vernon
and was therefore compelled to offer it for
sale. Miss Ann P. Cunningham, of South
Carolina, decided to save this sacred spot as
a possession of the nation, if possible. In
1858 the Mount Vernon Ladies’ Association
of the Union was organized Miss Cun-
ningham was made Regent and twelve states
were represented by vice-Regents. The
ladies were aided in their splendid work by
some of the most prominent men in our
country, such as Edward Everett and
Washington Irving. The sum required for
purchasing the property was raised and
each state seems to have vied with the
other in refurnishing the rooms, supplying
relics and preserving with remarkable ac-
curacy and faithfulness every detail of our
Washington’s home. This magnificent
work should be an object lesson to the
Daughters of the Revolution, and certainly
we cannot be too grateful to this band of
noble women.
	Perhaps the most interesting church to
be visited in the East is Old Christ’s Church,
in Alexandria, Ga., for George Washington
was one of the first vestry-men of this
church and his pew remains just as he left
it, with a fac-simile of his autograph on a
steel plate on the door of the pew. The
pastor from this church, Rev. Charles
Davis, preached the funeral sermon at
Washington’s funeral.
	We reached Philadelphia on Saturday
afternoon and were fortunate enough to
secure very pleasant quarters at the Strat-

[Column 3]
ford Hotel, the D. R. headquarters.
	Miss Emily H. Cannon came from Bos-
ton Saturday evening, to our intense de-
light, and Utah’s delegation was full, and
I may say, we were decidedly the youngest
delegate present. We had expected to be
kindly received by the Eastern D. R’s.,
for it is undoubtedly true that in no other
association of women is there manifest the
cordiality, nor the bond of sisterhood so
strongly felt, as in these patriotic societies,
but we could scarcely have anticipated the
reception that met us. Miss Snow has so
admirably described it that it would be
superfluous for me to add anything; but I
must say that from the President-General
and her two “vices,” as Miss Sterling and
Miss Hunt style themselves, all the officers
and Board of managers and the D. R’s.
from most remote parts are women to be
admired, respected and loved.
	Miss Sterling has graphically described
the Old Swede’s Church, on Sunday, April 23.
Monday, April 24, the business meeting
was held. This occupied the entire day
and a part of the evening. The order of
business as set forth in the program was
closely followed. Every member of the
society will receive, as soon as it is printed,
a complete account of the business meeting.
The question of a union of the D. R. and
D. A. R. was considered in a dignified and
decisive manner and unless a better plan
of uniting the two can be suggested than
any yet proposed, there will certainly never
be a union, for the D. R’s. would gain very
little for what they would have to surrender.
There is not a society in America that has a
stronger, more liberal, exalted
and progressive organization than
the Daughters of the Revolution, who work
under the colors chosen by George Wash-
ington himself, and have as their motto
Liberty, Home and Country. The nomin-
ating commitiee to nominate seven ladies to
fill the vacancies that would occur in the
Board of managers, consisted of one mem-
ber from each state. I had the honor of
representing Utah, and the ladies nomina-
ted were all elected.
	The Washington Memorial Fund was
spoken of, also the Prison Ship Martyr’s
Association, and the Daughters were urged
to assist both. The organization of the
Junior Auxiliary in every state was strong-
ly recommended. The reports from the
different states were very interesting, and I
realized more than ever the necessity of
having some organized plan for study and
of doing something in a public way when
possible.
	You know the order of our excursions as
the program mapped out was closely fol-
lowed. The first place visited in “Old
Philadelphia” was Carpenters Hall. This
place was built in 1770 by the Carpenter’s
Guild, and remains just as it was when just
concluded. Within this building on the
5th day of September, 1774, was convened
the first Continential Congress, with Pey-
ton Randolph as president, and delegates
from the thirteen colonies. Over one of
the large doors, just opposite the street en-
trance, is this inscription: “Within these
walls Henry Hancock and Adams inspired
the delegates of the colonies with the nerve
and sinew for the toils of war.”
	From here we went to Independence
Hall. This building is very carefully kept.
There are many fine old pictures to be
seen, but the objects of greatest interest are
the table and chair used in signing the
Declaration of Independence.


