AUNT ZINA’S PARTY.
	On Tuesday afternoon, July 26, a num-
ber of sisters met at the residence of Sister
Zina D. H. Young, to show their love and
appreciation of this Mother in Israel, whose
whole life has been such a striking example
of self-sacrifice and devotion to the Gospel
and its work here upon the earth in this
dispensation.
	Sister Zina has truly earned the appella-
tion “Mother in Israel.” The sisters who
were present on the occasion of the gather-
ing mentioned had a most enjoyable time,
although the affair was an informal one,
yet it was a sort of meeting. Sister E. B.
Wells made a few appropriate remarks and
referred with love and admiration to the
many sisters who had been wont to meet
with us on similar occasions who were now
on the other side of the veil, and whose
great nobility of character we cherished
still in memory with fond appreciation.
Prominent among these were Vilate
Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Emma Smith,
Eliza R. Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
and later whom all present would remem-
ber, Phebe Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball,
Elizabeth Howard and many more whose
names were familiar to the Latter-day
Saints and that we should not allow their
names to be forgotten, for they had helped
lay the foundation for others.
	Sister Wells then suggested that Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith preside. The sisters
sang Sister Eliza’s hymn, “O, my Father,”
Sister Camilla C. Cobb leading and Sister
Minnie J. Snow playing the accompaniment
on the organ. An eloquent prayer which
touched every heart was offered by Sister
Elizabeth Webb, and was followed by the
hymn “God moves in a mysterious way.”
	Sister Zina, in her own sweet, motherly
way, welcomed the sisters to her home and
heart and praised the Lord, as she always
does, for all His blessings to us as a people.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke briefly and
alluded to the sisters whose names had
been mentioned, particularly “Sister
Emma,” with whom she was intimately
acquainted. Sister Zina then paid a loving
tribute to “Sister Emma.”
	Sister Sarah Jane Cannon followed in
a similar strain, referring tenderly to the
experiences of women in this Church and
their wonderful integrity.
	Sisters Margaret Y. Taylor, Hannah C.
Wells, Margaret P. Young, Maria W. Wil-
cox, Mary Alice Lambert, Sarah P. Snow,
Julia C. Howe, Naamah Twiss Young,
Elizabeth J. Stevenson, Emma S. Wood-
ruff and Minnie J. Snow each made excel-
lent and timely remarks, beautiful tributes
to those among whom they had lived in the
family relation, and the great experience
gained by being thus associated. Those
who spoke referred to other sisters, who had
been faithful in all things: Marinda Hyde,
Leonora Taylor, Presendia Kimball and
Sarepta Heywood. The sisters sang
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.”
	Aunt Zina was then blest by all the
sisters uniting their faith, Sister L. L.
Greene Richards being mouth in offering
the prayer.
	Sister Zina then spoke in the gift of
tongues and at the earnest solicitation of
all present gave the interpretation herself.
Afterwards all joined in singing “Praise
God from whom all blessings flow,” and
the little meeting was dismissed by Sister
E. B. Wells.


After the exercises the guests repaired to
the dining room and partook of the good
things provided by one and all of the sisters
assembled. Sister Lambert pronounced
the blessing upon the food. A beautiful 
vase of roses in the centre of the table were
the gift of Sister Woodruff to our beloved
“Aunt Zina.”
	Besides the sisters mentioned as having
taken part in the meeting there were pres-
ent Sisters Lydia Ann Wells, Maria Y.
Dougall, Phebe Y. Beatie, Julia A. Brixen,
Lizzie S. Wilcox Amelia Maeser, Marjorie
McCarty and Elizabeth Langton.


