[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	We are called to chronicle the death of
two of our faithful sisters in the Relief
Society of Monroe, who have borne the
burden of the day and proved faithfnl to the
end.
	Sister Lizzie Calkin Smith was born in
Gloucestershire, England, July 1, 1821.
She heard the Gospel while a young woman
and was baptized in 1848. She had much to
battle against; she left father, mother,
brothers and sisters and emigrated in 1852,
walking across the plains the entire distance,
except ninety miles, and then was induced
by one of the company to ride, as her health
was very poor; but she felt happy in doing
so, as she had promised the Lord if He
would open the way for her to come to Zion
she would willingly walk all the way.
	She reached Salt Lake City in September,
1852. On the 6th of November, the same
year she was married to Brother Asa
Calkin. They resided in Salt Lake until
1861, when they were called to help in set-
tling Dixie, where they remained during
the trials and hardships incident to settling
a new country. In February 1873 while
visiting friends in Salt Lake City, she re-
ceived the sad news of her husband’s death
but was unable to reach home before he
was buried. She worked faithfully for
three years in the St. George Temple.
	In 1880 she was married to Bishop E. N.
Smith, of Rockville, who had been left a
widower with seven children. She soon
won the love and respect of the children
and strove to fill the place of mother as near
as it could be filled.
	When the Primary Association was or-

[Column 2]
ganized she was selected president, by
Sister E. R. Snow, and also president of
the Relief Society of the same ward, which
position she faithfully filled until the family
moved to Monroe, November, 1891. In
this place she has been connected with the
Relief Society since her arrival. She was
treasurer of the same for four years and
filled that position with honor.
	In 1898 her husband died and since that
time old age has made its demand. Aunt
Lizzie has lived a useful and goodly life,
and will receive the reward of the faithful.
She died August 6, 1900.
	Her motherly counsel and words of en-
couragement will be remembered by all who
were acquainted with her.

	Just one week later, August 13, our dear
sister Flora Clarinda Gleason Washburn,
died at the ripe old age of eighty-one years
and twelve days, being tenderly nursed and
cared for by her children. She leaves three
sons and four daughters to mourn her loss,
and a great many grandchildren and great-
grandchildren.
	Flora Clarinda Gleason Washburn was
born August 2, 1819, at Tolland, Berkshire
Co., Mass. Her parents were Joel and
Lorena Gleason. They removed to
Lenox, Ashtabula Co., Ohio, in the year
1824. Her mother died sixteen days after
reaching Ohio. Clarinda joined the Church
in April, 1834, the only one of her father’s
family that ever embraced the Gospel. She
received her endowments in Nauvoo and
was called at a meeting in Nauvoo to go to
Macedonia, Ill., and organize a Relief
Society, which she presided over until she
was called to go and live at the Mansion
house, the home of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. After the death of the Prophet with
the family of B. F. Johnson, she started
with the first company of Saints in search of
a new home, after having lost everything
she owned of an earthly nature, except the
clothes she had on her body, through the
mobbings and persecutions of the wicked.
	She remained at Winter Quarters a little
over a year and a half, and started for the
valley on the 3rd of July. She harnessed,
fed and drove her own team part of the
way, and arrived in Salt Lake City October
18, 1848. Afterwards she married Abra-
ham Washburn in February, 1849. She
removed from Salt Lake City to Sanpete
Co. the following November, arrived there
November 21, and on the 22nd gave birth to
the first white child born in Sanpete Co.
	She shared in all the hardships incident
to settling and building up a new country.
She was appointed a teacher in the first
Relief Society of Manti, afterwards was
made president, which office she held until
she moved with her family to Monroe,
Sevier Co., Utah, in March, 1872. In
November, 1872 she was appointed presi-
dent of the Relief Society of Monroe, which
position she held until Feburary 6, 1897,
when she was honorably released on account
of her age and poor health, having won
many a laurel to adorn her brow in the
eternal world.
	Not only as president has she been faith-
ful, but whatever her willing hands have
found to do she has done with a will.
	She was buried on the 15th of August,
the brethren and sisters bearing testimony
to the many and faithful labors performed
by our dear sister.
