[Column 1]
lutions to the WOMAN’s EXPONENT for publication,
a copy be placed on the record of the Relief Soci-
ety and one be sent to the bereaved family.
Good bye, Sister Daw, we miss thy face,
Thy loving smile and gentle grace;
Gone to the Father on that happy shore,
Where pain and sorrow thou will share no more,
ELIZABETH BERRY, President.
MELISSA A. WEEKS, Vice-President.
FANNIE N. BERRY, Secretary.
MARGARET BENNETT, Treasurer.
ELLIS PETERSON LUTHAN.
Died at her home in Haden, Idaho, April 14,
1900, of pneumonia, Sister Ellis Peterson Luthan.
Deceased was born December 2, 1840. She emi-
grated to Utah in 1853 and has ever been a faith-
ful Latter-day Saint. She was a loving wife and
mother and leaves a husband and eight children
and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
Sister Luthan was first counselor to the president
of the Relief Society (Martha Little) in the Haden
ward, having occupied that position from the time
of the organization, now five years. She always
gave good counsel and donated liberally, was
faithful in all her duties. She was filled with the
spirit of the Lord when testifying of His goodness
and power, and always urged the sisters to love
each other and be faithful to their duties. She had
no fear of death and said it would be joy to meet
her mother and those who had gone before; and yet
she felt she would like to live for the sake of her
family. By her request the sisters fasted and
prayed, but it seemed that her time had come and
her spirit took its flight in peace and joy. She
passed away like a babe falling asleep, she had
been ill just six days.
The whole community mourn her loss, for she
truly was a mother in Israel to all who needed her
loving care, visiting the sick, ministering to the
poor, comforting the afflicted and cheering all who
came within her presence. She was of a most
amiable disposition and by her smiles and cheer-
fulness would dispel all the gloom around her.
The funeral was largely attended, the Society
house was crowded to overflowing, and a long
procession of seventy conveyances followed the re- 
mains to the grave and the greatest respect was
shown to the family.
MARTHA LITTLE, President.
MAY SMITH, Secretary.
MARY SMITH ANDERSON.
Sister Mary S. Anderson, of Rexburg, Idaho,
departed this life May 8, 1900, at twenty 
minutes past one and the funeral was held on the
the 10th at one o’clock p. m. Deceased was great-
ly beloved and many sad and aching hearts are
left to mourn her loss here upon the earth.
Sister Anderson was born February 23, 1841, in
Dundee, Scotland. She embraced the Gospel at
an early age and left her home in Dundee in com-
pany with her mother. her brothers and three sis-
ters, April 30, 1856.
They sailed from Liverpool, England, in the
ship Thornton, May 4 of the same year, arrived in
New York May 14, continuing their journey by
railway and steamboat, arriving at Iowa City,
June 26, and started to cross the plains in the
fourth handcart company, July 15th, Captain J.
G. Willey. Millen Atwood, was Captain of the
hundred in which they traveled to Salt Lake City;
they had a very tedious journey across the plains.
Miss Smith was married to Andrew A. Ander-
son, July, 1857, and lived in Lehi until 1860, when
with her husband and one child she moved to
Smithfield, Cache Co., where she lived until the
fall of 1884, when she with her husband and fam-
ly moved to Rexburg, Idaho. She filled the office
of first counselor to the president of the Relief
Society of Fremont Stake, and she traveled around
the Stake, giving good counsel to elevate the sis-
ters up to a high standard of love and good works,
and many sought her counsel and it was said of
her at her funeral that she was not only a mother
to the whole town and Stake, and that no other
woman in the county would have been missed
more or was loved more, gems of precious thought
were always coming from her lips. Her death
cast a gloom over all, she made the weary take up
their burdens and praise God for his wonderful
love and care for His people. She has left a hus-
band and seven children, three sons and four
daughters to mourn her loss; three sons and one
daughter preceded her behind the vail. One of
her sons, A. S. Anderson, was a member of the
State Convention that drafted the Constitution, and
she was also the mother of J. A. Anderson of the
Utah Volunteers, who made his name honored by
his nobility of character portrayed while in
Manilla.

[Column 2]
Sister Anderson did considerable work in the
Manti Temple for her dead relatives and also
officiated for them two or three months in the
Temple at Logan,
In all the trials through which she was called to
pass she was never heard to murmur or complain,
but al[-]ays had a word to strengthen others in
their faith and encourage them to press onward
and upward. The writer has often heard her
speak in our General Conference of the Relief
Society and in officers’ meetings, and felt to sym-
pathize with the bereaved who so sadly miss her
in the places she occupied. May the Lord abund-
antly bless them that they may emulate her wise
example and carry out the precepts she taught
them. that they may meet her hereafter never
again to be separated nor to know the grief of
parting.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
Whereas, In the dispensation of providence
God has seen fit to call home one of His daughters
who labored long and well as first counselor to
the Stake president of the Relief Society of the
Fremont Stake, and who also traveled many hun-
dred miles visiting the different branches of the
society in sunshine and showers when Fremont was
united with Bannock Stake; and
Whereas, She has proved herself an efficient
worker in all her various duties, and was one
whose kindness and generosity of spirit brought
sunshine to many hearts, visiting the sick and
afflicted and helping the needy in time of want;
and we can truly say she was a peacemaker and an
administering angel, her memory will ever live
with her many friends, as her bright gems of
thought have been scattered broadcast to live in
the hearts of men,
Resolved, That we her sisters, united with her
in the presidency of the Fremont Stake of the
Relief Society, do deeply feel her loss in connec-
tion with her earnest efforts and wise counsel, as
to know her was to love her, as we know she was
one of God’s choicest spirits; nevertheless in this
our loss we feel to bow to the mandates of an Al-
wise Creator who doeth all things well.
Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be sent
to her family. a copy be placed on the Stake
record, also one be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
TEMPERANCE HINCKLEY, President,
SARAH A. BARNES, Secretary.


