[Column 1]
CENTURY’S GREETING TO AID RED
CROSS.
	The parting of the centuries on the night
of the 31st of the coming December will
have a celebration of world-wide import
and interest in the unique watch meetings
to be held in this country under the auspices
of the American National Red Cross.
	The specially organized Twentieth Cen-
tury Department of the Red Cross is now
preparing to hold watch meetings, as far as
practicable, in every city, town and village
of the United States. Mammoth meetings
are already arranged for in New York and

[Column 2]
other leading cities, in Madison Square
Garden and other great auditoriums, to see
the old century out and the new century in.
At Madison Square Garden Sousa’s famous
band will furnish the music and a grand
chorus of one thousand voices will be heard
in song until midnight, interspersed with
speeches and greetings.
	These “Greetings” will be an unique and
epochal feature. Not only the rulers of the
prominent nations of the world, but the
leading celebrities of every land—Tolstoi,
Joseph Chamberlain, Dreyfus, Zola, Kruger,
Sir Edwin Arnold, Hall Caine, Anthony
Hope, Lord Roberts and more than fifty
others, making a total of about one hundred,
have written special messages for the Red
Cross, on the progress of the 19th Century
and the promise of the 20th Century.
	Such a grouping of crystalized thought
from the master minds of all the earth on a
subject of such universal interest was never
before made. The contributions pledged to
the service of the American Red Cross
branch will form a most inspiring and im-
pressive memorial. So important and sig.
nificant are these “Greetings” that the
originals are to be preserved for the nation
in the Congressional Library at Washington.
	At every Red Cross watch meeting in
the city or village throughout the land there
will be opened simultaneously a sealed
packet containing these “Greetings” from
the Old World to the New on the close of a
century so unprecedented in achievements
and the coming of another so transcendent
in promise.
	In the noble memorial address by Miss
Barton to Congress some twelve years ago,
she recalled the fact that probably no sign
or figure in the secular world is sacred to so
many eyes as the Red Cross of Geneva. It
is the insignia of a humanity that knows no
foe. In the fiercest conflict of arms it passes
unchallenged on its mission of mercy. Its
international organization is founded on the
welcome and authorization of the united
governments of the civilized world. Its
chief directors abroad are men of the fore-
most standing, and the crowned heads of
Europe are its patrons. It is eminently
natural and fitting that it should be the
medium for bearing messages of cheer and
fraternity that will inspire and delight all
America in these great watch meetings.
	The object of these meetings is to raise
funds for the American National Red Cross,
and to signalize the dawning of another
century by giving world-wide prominence
to that fraternity between nations which
tends to ameliorate the horrors of war.
	The Red Cross in other countries has
been endowed by various means, but in the
United States it has worked from one
national emergency to another without an
endowment or sustaining fund, and it is
believed that, at the dawning of a new
century, the people of the United States
will gladly gather together in mass meetings
to watch the old century out and the new
century in, and at the same time to aid in
the national and international work which
has for its watchword “Humanity.”
	The American National Red Cross has
for the first time consented to give the pub-
lic an opportunity to contribute to a per-
manent sustaining fund for this broadest of
charities.
	It is not necessary to enlarge to American
readers on the history and work of Miss
Clara Barton and the American National
Red Cross, nor as to what she and the

[Column 3]
Society have done for the soldiers of the
Regular and Volunteer armies of this and
other countries. With the provision of such
a fund as is proposed, the occurrence of any
great calamity, such as recently visited the
city of Galveston, would find it in a position
to offer that most valuable of assistance—
first relief.
	It is expected that some adequate pro-
vision may be made for such a sustaining
fund through the agency of the watch
meetings and the subscriptions for the
sealed packet of “Greetings” which will be
delivered to every meeting in the country at
a very moderate charge.


