[Column 1]
and educated to meet its growing knowledge.
	Prof. William M. Stewart, of the
University of Utah, spoke upon the subject
of “School and Domestic Life.” An un-
fortunate condition existed, Prof. Stewart
said, in these relations. The father usually
leaves his home early in the morning and
returns at night, and usually devotes him-
self to his newspaper or goes out to partici-
pate in separate public interests which occu-
pied his attention, the wife had her separ-
ate interests and the children theirs. There
in reality should be accordance and union
of usefulness in the home. All should
“pull together” to accomplish the highest
results. Prof. Stewart also spoke on the
evils of the saloon, and declared it to be a
blot upon the civilization of the world.

	The Mothers’ Congress reconvened in
the morning at 10 o’clock. The meeting
opened with prayer by Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young after which Mrs. Lucretia Kimball
spoke upon the “Educational Preparation
of Parenthood.” Mrs. Kimball said: “I
come before you here as a mother who feels
how far short she has fallen below her
ideals of motherhood and desiring to gain
from the ideas and association here aid in 
bettering them. I desire to speak upon
Parenthood rather than Motherhood. I be-
lieve that the spiritual should be considered
first, and that upon the development of
spiritual the physical and moral will follow.
What would it mean if men and women set
themselves to study for the holy profession
of parenthood? When a girl evinces a
talent for music we decide that everything
should be done in preparation for the devel-
opment of her gift. But how much atten-
tion or care is devoted to the development
of the holy gift of motherhood?”
	Mrs. Lucy Hoving, of Logan, expressed
it as her sentiment and hope that the time
might come when no girl would be per-
mitted to marry without first having
mastered the Kindergarten course.
	Miss May said this question of Kinder-
ten training was important enough for
thorough discussion. One girl had been
allowed to take Kindergarten course, who 
wanted to go on the stage. She did so,
aad it seemed to crush out all desire for the
stage together with all the frivolity and
lightness that had hitherto ruled her life.
	Mrs. E. E. Shepherd followed with an
address upon the subject of “Honor Be-
tween Men and Women.”
	There has been an idea for ages that the
single life is the only pure life, and we have
celibacy enforced in the priests in many re-
ligions. Considered in its true and holy
light, lived in the way that God intends,
marriage is holy. The progress, morality
and purity of the race depend upon the
right understanding and practice of right
laws.
	The greater freedom of women and their
wider mingling with the world has obliter-
ated, to a great extent, the thought of sex.
	How often we hear parents say, “Oh my
boy is sowing his wild oats, he will come
out all right.” How would you like to
have your daughters sow wild oats? A
boy who sows his wild oats, is never the 
equal of the the pure young girl joined with
him in marriage.
	What can we as Mothers’ Congress do to
destroy this false standard? We must set
ourselves to consider these subjects and
help to solve these questions which affect
the progress and morality of the world.

[Column 2]
	The meeting adjourned at 12 o’clock to
meet at 2 p. m.
	“The Rights of Children” was the subject
under discussion in the afternoon at the
Mothers’ Congress. Mrs. R. T. Hilliard,
of Ogden, reviewing the physical side of the
question and Miss Whalen, of the same
city, the ethical.
	It is becoming recognized that the child
has his rights equally or even more im-
portantly than the adult. Every child
primarily has the right to be well born, to
have a perfect and healthful body, and the
right to have this body properly cared for.
Every child should also have the benefit of
normal training, that his hands may be
skilled to create beautiful things. If a child
is properly trained the aptitude for re-
sponsibility will come with years. There
is a growing interest in the question of the
right training and culture of children. This
unrest has evidenced in the many mothers’
organizations throughout the land, and
there is no doubt a better condition soon to
develop from this unrest. We must not
decide ourselves selfishly to our own chil-
dren; we must better the entire world or
our efforts to regenerate the race will be in
vain. Mrs. Hilliard gave some clever
illustrations of the importance of the con-
sideration of economics in the solving of
social problems.
	The Chaminade chorus under Mrs.
Lewis directorship sang two beautiful
selections from Rene the King.
	Mrs. Stewart in response to President
Little’s call for discussion of Mrs. Hilliard’s
paper, said that she thought the most im-
portant right of the child was to be desired.
No one has the moral right to bring an un-
welcome child into the world. They should
also have a place. Usually they are made
to feel in the way, there is no place pre-
pared for their play in the home and it is
not strange that they are found on the
street and in undesirable spots.
	Mrs. Alice E. Harford gave the group of
children’s songs postponed from the pre-
vious day’s program, illustrating the kind
of songs desirable and appropriate for chil-
dren. “The Wind,” “The Tulips,” “The
Owl and Hare,” “You Seen my Kitty,”
were the titles of the songs sung and were
received with applause.
	President Little appointed a nominating
committee to prepare a list of officers to pre-
sent for election, after which Miss Whalen,
of Ogden, made an interesting address deal-
ing with the ethical rights of children.
Her talk was enjoyed throughout and
elicited much applause.


