[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting, held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
July 1, 1900. Meeting opened by singing
“Once more we come before our God.”
Prayer by M. W. Wilcox. Singing,
“Glorious things of thee are spoken.”
President Horne read a letter from Sister
Alder, which was very interesting. She
then told the sisters that she would like to
hear testimonies from them and that when
they testified to the truths ot this work it
strengthened others. Spoke of the old
folks’ excursion, had a very nice time. She
was glad to see President Joseph F. Smith
and other Apostles with the party. Said
Heber Goddard sang “Hard Times.”
Brother Joseph F. Smith said that we would
not have any more hard times. She urged
the sisters to do right and to keep the com-
mandments of God.
	Sister Seabeck was grateful to be with us
and always tried to come to the meetings of
the sisters, for there was a good spirit here
and she always acknowledged the hand of
God in all things and was glad to be num-
bered with the Saints.
	Sister Joanna Peterson felt thankful for
health and strength every day and testified
to the goodness of her Heavenly Father.
Hoped that she would prove faithful to the
end.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “Jesus the
Giver of all we enjoy,” and said she de-
sired to do what was right. We know now
that the day is drawing near when we will
see perilous times, when we hear of wars
and famine and so many accidents.
	Sister Smellie said we must love the
spirit of the Gospel, wanted to say that we
must continue to keep the commandments
of God and He will bless us. She spoke of
Sister Alder and said that it would be nice if
we all could donate a little money so that
she would be able to do more good on her

[Column 2]
mission. “I am sorry we did not have the
minutes here today, I want to speak of the
power of women.”
	Sister Hardy: “I desire to bear my testi-
mony to the truth of this work. May we
strive to set a good example to those around
us.”
	Another sister said that she rejoiced in
the work of the Lord.
	Sister Jane James felt thankful that she
had the Holy Spirit. She thanked Sister
Horne for her blessing, and rejoiced in a
knowledge of the Gospel. She had lived
with the prophet’s family, and had once
converted a young girl to the Gospel.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young: “It is by the
grace of God that we will do His will and
be humble, blessing our brethren and
having the love of the sisters. Always try
and do good, and try to look after the poor
and needy. We must love one another and
try to do all the good we can, each one of
us should invite others to our meetings.”
	Sister E. J. Stevenson was feeling very
weak, she said. “When shall we all meet
again. I feel grateful that I am well
enough to come to this meeting. Sister
Howe came and comforted me. May the
blessing of God rest upon us that we may
always do what is right. I am as thankful
as when the stars shouted for joy that we
have had our ears opened.” Said she had
done all she could helping to redeem the
dead.
	A young lady here feels the Spirit of our
Father, she feels that she would like to go
into the united order. “I rejoice that we
have had a feast of fat things. We must
stand up and speak of the goodness of God.”
	Another sister spoke of the goodness of
our Father, said that she was so happy.
	A sister prayed for all the sisters and
blessed them, and testified to the goodness
of her Heavenly Father.
	Sister Mair: “I am thankful that I be-
long to the Relief Society. Let us move
forward and do all the good we can. I
hope I will prove faithful unto the end.”
	Another sister said, “I rejoice with the
Latter-day Saints, where can you find
better women than here? Since I was
here I have had many testimonies. May
we all be faithful.”
				Sec. pro tem.


