[Column 1]
PARIS LETTER.
			July, 6, 1900.
Dear Sister Wells:
	A few days since I had the pleasure of
sending you an invitation to participate in
the ceremony of unveiling the monument to
Gen. Lafayette, which occurred on the 4th
inst., in the place du Carrousel, (hereafter to
be called Square Lafayette) and believing
that you would be interested in knowing
that the Daughters of the Revolution were
well represented at the function, I give the
names of the committee as follows: Mrs.
John K. Gowdy, Mrs. Ernest H. Tripp,
Mrs. A. E. Cullop, Miss Sarah E. Hunt,
Mrs. George Geran, Mrs. T. G. Webber,
and Miss Tarquinia L. Voss, chairman.

[Column 2]
	Miss Voss effectively read a dedication
poem by Frank A. Putnam, which was
loudly applauded, and the Daughters placed
a large floral piece (about four feet in
diameter) of yellow roses and blue flowers,
the colors of the association, at the foot of
the monument. Among the list of honor-
ary vice-presidents I was more than grati-
fied to find the name of our able and
esteemed governor, Heber M. Wells.
	Among the most notable persons on the
platform were the American Ambassador to
France, Gen. Horace Porter, our Ambassa-
dors to Germany, Russia, Italy and Switzer-
land; His Excellency, the President of the
French Republic (Loubet) and his Cabinet;
Archbishop of Ireland, of St. Paul, and all
the commissioners, including Mrs. Daniel
Manning and Mrs. Potter Palmer. Sousa
and his famous band played our national
airs and the flags of America and France
floated side by side from public and private
buildings alike. In short, America cap-
tured Paris for that day.
	It was a novelty, I assure you, for a
daughter of Utah to march down an avenue
covered with crimson carpet and lined on
each side with soldiers of the guard in their
gorgeous scarlet and gold uniforms at pre-
sent arms, with bands playing and flags
flying.
	Paris at all times is a busy place for the
sight-seer, but this week it has beeil un-
usually so for me. On Sunday I attended
church and met Dr. and Mrs. Thurber,
cousins of Mrs. Byron Groo. The Dr. is
pastor of the American Church here and I
thought his sermon broad and very excel-
lent. On Monday we attended Mrs. Daniel
Manning’s reception given at the Elysee
Palace Hotel, in honor of Mr. Daniel
French, the sculptor of the Washington
monument, which was unveiled on the 3rd
inst. After the unveiling of the Lafayette
monument on Tuesday we attended Gen.
and Mrs. Porter’s reception, said to have
been the most brilliant ever given by an
American Ambassador in Paris, and in the
evening we attended a banquet at the Con-
tinental Hotel, given by the American
Chamber of Commerce. There were over
four hundred guests seated and we had
speeches from Gen. Porter, the French
ministers of War and Commerce, Archbishop
of Ireland, our other foreign Ambassadors
and others of note. The banquet lasted
until after midnight and was very enjoyable.
	I have had a very pleasant hour with
Madame de Mercy, the president of the
Ladies Club, the only woman’s club in
Paris; and Madame Bogelot, who since her
visit to America in 1893 is so pronounced in
praise of our women that she is now called
the “American-French woman.”
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall has asked me to
call on her this evening, so with these social
matters and the Exhibition my hands are
full.
			MARY E. R. WEBBER.
	P. S. Mrs. J. B. Farlow sails on the
Palatia from Bologne on the 9th for home.
Miss Teasdel is at Etaples with an art
class.


