[Column 1]
	Emma Smith had come on this visit with
her husband with very little preparation,
and Sister Emory was proud to divide with
her the new goods she had expected to make
up for her trip to visit her parents.
	The days passed swiflty. There was so
much to tell and so much to hear. Sister
Emma—for so they called her—knew all
about the visions and manifestations of her
husband, and was never weary of repeating
these wonderful incidents to Sister Emory,
her neighbors and friends, for many came to
see and to hear of the new faith. Christ-
mas came very soon, in less than a week
after the arrival of Joseph and Emma, and
though the day was not celebrated then
with all the parade and extravagance that
prevails nowadays, yet there were gifts and
feasts and charities of a simple character,
and kindly feeling among peoples of all
classes and all religious faiths.
	Think if you can what it meant to these
people to have a prophet with them on
Christmas day after so many hundreds of
years that no direct revelation had been
given, and they had been told that there
would be no more, “the canon of scripture
was full.”
	The Lord had indeed been mindful of
them and they listened entranced day after
day to Joseph and Emma as they recounted
the thrilling events that had transpired since
the promulgation of the truths received from
on high, and the indignities, heaped upon
them and the persecutions they had been
made to endure.
	To those who are living now and are
acquainted with the leaders of the Church,
who are men of years, grown gray in the
service of the Lord, it is scarcely possible
to make them realize how very young the
Prophet Joseph was when he commenced
the great work of this dispensation. When
the Church was organized first he was not
yet twenty-five years old; and just before
the Christmas following that event he had
barely reached his quarter of a century. It
really seems incredible that a youth, a mere
boy, could have accomplished so much in so
short a time. Assuredly it is marvelous;
and the time will come when the world will
acknowledge his wisdom, and the influence
he has exerted in this century, now so
nearly drawing to a close.
	To be associated in a slight degree with
Joseph Smith was sufficient to inspire one
with his superiority to other men, even his
brethren in the priesthood, therefore it
is not to be wondered at that all those
liying now who remember him, should
testify to the influence and power he carried
wherever he was seen, no matter at what
time nor in what place.
	Nothing could be more beautiful than the
early life of Joseph Smith. In his manner he
was gentle and kindly, and he was always
affectionate to his friends, and at times
demonstrative. He was strong and ardent
in his nature and valued highly the quality
of sincerity in friendship. He was manly
to an unusual degree, yet tender-hearted as
a woman on occasions. In his tastes he
was literary as well as spiritual, fond of the
drama, of music and of poetry. A very
dear friend of mine who knew the Prophet
intimately when she was a child, assured me
she had repeated poetry to him by the hour,
and that she had known him to shed tears
when hearing some specially fine vocal
music, particularly old-fashioned songs and
ballads. With such noble characteristics it
is not strange that he was so intensely
beloved.

[Column 2]
	Blessed is the home where such men find
welcome: thrice blessed those who are
privileged to entertain prophets and men of
God.
	And therefore we repeat that to sit down
to a Christmas feast unexpectedly with a
man of destiny is far greater than any
material gift of this world’s goods. Such
privileges are only vouchsafed to the few;
yet Christmas is the opportune time to dis-
pense bounties and to share with others, our
friends and neighbors, the good gifts a kind
Providence bestows, and to show our apprecia-
tion in some genuine and substantial way
for those of our own household, if we can
do no more; but if possible extend a helping
hand to those less able to entertain, not as a
charity, but graciously, that their Christmas
may be one of good cheer and kindly fellow-
ship.
	The Savior came with Peace and Good
Will to all men. He brought life and
salvation to all who obey His command-
ments. It was the beginning of a new
time from which we date our years, now
numbering Nineteen Hundred in a few
more days, as time is now calculated. He
gave us the Golden Rule, “To do unto
others as we would have them do unto us.”
	In this century the Gospel he taught has
been restored again to earth by Joseph
Smith, whose mission was greater than any
other man or prophet since the days of the
Savior and His Apostles. And the name
and fame of the great Prophet of the
Latter-day dispensation should be kept be-
fore the children of the Latter-day Saints,
the name be spoken with reverence among
this people.
	The children old enough to appreciate the
fact, and thoughtful people generally, will
be sure to remember that this Christmas is
more unusual than any they have celebrated
heretofore, because it is the last in the cen-
tury and commences the last one of the two
thousand years since the birth of Christ.
	The Christmas seventy years ago, the
first one after the Church of the Latter-day
Saints was organized, though little thought
of then, was really an eventful one.
Sometimes we pass over almost uncon-
sciously the events that in after years prove
to have been the most important turning
points in history, and it is only in looking
backward that we recognize even afterwards
their significance.
