[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting
opened at 2 o’clock p. m., President M. I. 
Horne presiding. Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints. Prayer by Sister Mary Silver, Sing-
ing, “Welcome best of all good meetings.”
	President Horne said Sister Woolley was 
away visiting in the country and we had
no minutes to read. Asked Sister L. L. 
Greene Richards to act as secretary for the 
meeting. Told of a kindly offering for the 
poor made by the Davis Shoe Co. They
had given her twenty-four pairs of shoes to 
be distributed and she would hand them 
over to the sisters for the poor of their wards
at the close of the meeting. She then asked
the sisters to occupy the time. 
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, and said
she felt that it would be a terrible thing to 
lose that testimony. Related some of her
experiences and prayed that we might so
live as never to have our testimonies dimin-
ished, but that they might grow brighter. 
	Sister Julia C. Howe followed in the
same line the previous speaker had taken
up. Gave as a key by which to know if 
we are really enjoying the testimony of the 
spirit of God, “If we love our brethren and
sisters and all our Father’s children.” By
this we can know that the love of Christ is
abiding with us. 
	A sister in the congregation bore a faith-
ful testimony to the truth of the Gospel. 
	Sister M. Silver spoke of the blessings
which certainly follow the paying of tithing
as well as obedience to all the command-
ments of God. 
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson exhorted the
sisters to look after the suffering ones; be 
missionaries at home and always on the 
alert to do good. We must see to it that
no hard feelings exist in our hearts toward
any one. Speak no evil; set proper ex-
amples before our children always. “The
rain falls on the just and the unjust,” but
the spirit of the Lord will not dwell in un-
holy temples. We must be pure. 
	Sister Barnes spoke of the importance of 
our Temple work, also of looking after the
newly arrived Saints, not leaving them to 
feel lonely, but showing our love for our
Father’s children by taking an interest in 
their welfare and being kind to them.
	Sister Perry said truly she had
wondered why she should be the only one
of her father’s family to accept the Gospel.
But she had found it was that she might
labor in the Temple for her dead kindred.
	Sister Reed told of her having been an 
invalid for years, yet how the Lord was 
blessing her now, renewing her strength to 
the surprise of her friends.
	Counselor Sarah J. Cannon spoke of the
progress the sisters were making and of the 
necessity of the younger sisters being initi-
ated into the Relief Society work, that they
may be prepared when the burden of the 
business, which is now borne principally by
the older ones, shall rest upon them. Ex-
horted all to diligence and faithfulness in 
dispensing love and cheerfulness among all
with whom we come in contact, bestowing
wisely, not wastefully, to those whom we 
should comfort and succor. 
	Sister Elizabeth Y. Yates, president of 
the Millard Stake Relief Society, was intro-
duced by President Horne and addressed the
meeting. Spoke of the joy she felt in 
hearing the voices of her sisters She al-
ways looked for the reports of these meet-
ings in the EXPONENT and enjoyed read-

[Column 2]
ing them. Told of a visit of a sister [---]
Stake, who had been backward in [---]
testimony. She dreamed she died an[---]as
conducted to a most beautiful man[---]on. 
There a testimony meeting was being held
by some of the Saints. The sister’s heart
was so filled with joy and gratitude that she 
felt she must get up and bear her testimony.
But she was not permitted to speak there
because she had not been valiant in the
testimony of Jesus while upon the earth.
That sister was so impressed by her dream
that she commenced from that time to be 
valiant, and is now a good faithful worker
and a bright speaker in the Relief Society.
	Sister Margaret Gardner and another 
sister, whose name was not assertained by
the secretary, spoke encouragingly and 
prayed for the prosperity of Zion, that the 
mothers would teach their children to pray
as a safeguard against many evils. 
	Sister Martha Morris sang, very sweetly,
“The trials of the present day.” Others
bore testimony of the truth of the Gospel, 
the efficacy of prayer. 
	Sister Smellie, by permission of President
Horne, read the poem, “A Thread
of Thought.”
	Sister Decker told of some of her exper-
iences which had given her a testimony of 
the truth of the Gospel.
	Several others, whose names were not 
known to the sisters on the stand, spoke of 
their love for the work of the Lord, and the 
comfort they found in striving to live their
religion.
	Sister Bassett said she had visited other 
churches, but there was nothing satisfactory
to her in any religion but that believed in 
by the Latter-day Saints. 
	Other sisters made remarks, all harmon-
izing with those of the previous speakers.
	Sister Bateman related an instance of re-
markable healing in her family, through 
faith and the administration of the priest-
hood.
	President M. Isabella Horne in-
structed the sisters regarding the impor-
tance of seeking first the kingdom of God 
and His righteousness, trusting him to ful-
fill His promise that all other things should 
be added. 
