[Column 1]
JUNE NINETEEN HUNDRED.
	The month of June, Nineteen Hundred,
has been unusually full of stirring events
and happy occasions. Many pretty wed-
dings and brilliant receptions, some given
to guests from a distance, and others to
emphasize some occasion of special im-
portance.
	The first day of June Brigham Young’s
birthday was celebrated, both in the city,
with appropriate ceremonies, and at Saltair
with eloquent and telling addresses from
men of learning and famed for eloquence.
No tribute we as a people can pay to this
great leader and pioneer can be too much
of an ovation to his great genius, his
ability to plan and execute with skill,
energy and wisdom for the people whom he
loved so devotedly, and to whom, under
God, he gave his time, his talents and his
best efforts devotedly and untiringly.

	The General Conference of the Y. M.
and Y. L. Associations, which convened in
this city on the 10th, 11th and 12th of
June, and which brought the officers of
these institutions from afar—Mexico,
Canada, the Eastern, Northwestern and
Southern States, was a never to be for-
gotten occasion, and will be far-reaching in
its results, not only on those who were
favored to attend, but upon the great
work they represent. The serious illness
of the General President and the President
of the Church, Lorenzo Snow, was the one
drawback to the perfect enjoyment of the
conference. In consequence of this the
reception that had been planned to be
given in the Bee Hive had to be changed
to the Gardo House.
	This reception was on a magnificent
scale in every particular. The house itself,
which is elegantly furnished, was artistic-
ally decorated by specialists, and outside
banners flags, bunting. Chinese lanterns,
arclights and all the pretty effects of ap-
plied electricity gave the beautiful grounds
the appearance of fairyland. A dancing
floor on the west side of the lawn accomo-
dated the dancers, and bands of music were
playing both indoors and out. Young
ladies in shimmering white, and a great
variety of becoming colors, flitted here and
there dancing or helping to entertain those
who were not dancing and guests from a
distance, and the young men were particu-

[Column 2]
larly attentive and desirous to do all in
their power to make everyone happy and
comfortable. It was one of the most bril-
liant affairs of its kind ever given in this
city, tho’ Salt Lake is famous for success-
ful entertainments.

	The Scandinavian Jubilee was held in
June, beginning the 14th, in commemor-
ation of the half century that had elapsed
since the Gospel was first introduced into
the Scandinavian countries, and it was an
event of great importance in Church history.
Their representatives came from long dis-
tances to take part in the proceedings, which
were of great interest. The Tabernacle
decorations were very fine and in good
taste, and the flags displayed of the several
countries were quite a study. The enter-
tainments were all in keeping with the
occasion and gave opportunity for social
intercourse and renewing of old acquain-
tannce that was very pleasant and satisfac-
tory.
	One session was entirely given to the
women, Sister Minnie J. Snow presiding,
which was a sort of departure for them and
shows they are falling in line with the
spirit of progress. Sister Stevens read a
poem of her own composition at this meet-
ing, which we publish on another page in
this issue. They have their poets and
orators, several of them vigorously gifted in
these respects, and are quite famous for
beautiful singers and musicians, that have
not only done honor to their own people,
but to Utah. Sister Snow was presented
with an exquisite bouquet of flowers, an
expression of affection which she fully appre-
ciated.

	On the 22nd of June the Sons and
Daughters of the Pioneers of Utah county
celebrated with a feast and meetings at
Pleasant Grove. A program had been pre-
pared and visitors expected from a distance.
The exercises were in charge of the presi-
dent, Apostle Reed Smoot, who in the
kindliest manner cared for all present. A
bowery under the trees was comfortably
seated and afforded ample room for a larger
gathering. Carriages had been sent to the
station for the guests coming by train, and
at 10 a. m. there was an informal recep-
tion. Then music by the Pleasant
Grove band and prayer by the chaplain,
President Edward Partridge. Hymn, “O,
ye mountains high” and address of welcome
by Professor J. L. Brown, responded to by
Apostle Reed Smoot. The address assigned
to Governor Heber M. Wells was given by
Apostle A. O. Woodruff. A song by Miss
Arville Clark, with organ accompaniment,
by Professor Lund, was greatly appreciated.
A part of the program, the Pioneer
Fathers, was given by Apostle Rudger
Clawson. A song by Miss Mary West was
very sweet and tender.
	At the banquet two hundred guests were
seated and a fine menu was partaken of,
which the guests appreciated by partaking
bountifully. Professor J. L. Brown acted
as toastmaster and was quite humorous in
some of the parts. Mrs. E. B. Wells gave
“A Morning in Camp.” A buffalo hunt,
Mr. Hancock, a stampede, wittily given by
J. Golden Kimball, son of Heber C. Kim
ball, who always reminds one of his father
in his manner of expressing himself. “The
First Glimpse of the Valley,” Moroni
Snow, son of Apostle Erastus Snow. Song
by Professor A. C. Lund, rendered in most
excellent voice, “The Blue and the Gray.”

[Column 3]
Song, Miss Arville Clark, “Annie Laurie,”
she has a fine voice and good expression.
	Afternoon exercises. Apostle Brigham
Young spoke in a most impressive manner
npon the subject “The Debt We Owe.”
“The Battalion Boys” was given by S. L.
White. Mayor W. Clark recited, in a graphic
manner, ‘‘The Settler’s Story.” The com-
pany sang “Babylon, O Babylon.” Apostle
Reed Smoot made some very well timed
remarks, urging the duty of keeping in
mind the privations and toil of the Pioneers
and paying tribute to their memory and
deeds of valor.
	The affair was a very happy one and it
seems appropriate that in every county in
Utah such a society should be organized
and kept up. All honor to the brave
pioneers who made it possible for thousands
to have happy homes in these vales of the
mountains.

	On the 13th of June the Primary Asso-
ciation held a General Conference in the
Tabernacle, the children assembled in great
numbers. The General Board were all
present in person, and also Presidents
George Q. Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, of
the First Presidency of the Church. A
very pathetic feature of the conference was
the prayer offered by the children for the
venerable President of the Church, Lorenzo
Snow, who had been expecting to address
them and was too ill to be present. The
president, Sister Louie B. Felt, presided at
this great gathering of the children of Zion.
The vast work accomplished by this organ-
ization during the twenty-one years since
the movement was started is a spiritual up-
lift such as can only be appreciated by those
connected with this magnificent work. Its
leaders and originators deserve the highest
tribute of praise from the parents in the
Church.
	At evening a banquet was given in the
Sixteenth Ward meeting house. Tables
were laid for three hundred guests. Presi-
dents George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith were present also several Apostles and
Joseph E. Taylor, of the Salt Lake Stake.
Elder Joseph H. Felt made a humorous
opening speech when all were seated, and
President Louie B. Felt expressed herself in
a few well-chosen words of welcome to her
guests. President George Q. Cannon asked
the blessing upon the feast. A program
had been prepared and Sister Cornelia H.
Clayton took the part of Toastmistress, to
which she seemed admirably adapted. Sis-
ter E. B. Wells responded to the toast, “Our
Grandfathers.” President George Q. Can-
non, “Our Grandmothers.” Maria Y.
Dougall, “Our Fathers.” President Joseph
F. Smith, “Our Mothers.” Aurelia S.
Rogers, “The Primaries.”
	The affair was most enjoyable, especially
meeting with workers from a distance in a
social way. President Felt and her co-
laborers are to be congratulated in having
made the conference and entertainment such
a success. Songs were well chosen and
finely rendered by some of the sweetest
singers of Israel.
	The Primary Association is an institution
that stands alone in the world. There is
no such training for children in any other
church or locality, and certainly it has
given excellent proof of its importance in
the training of the little people of Zion.

	June has been a notable month this year
in the matter of accidents, fires and nations
at war or declaring war, one can scarcely


contemplate the happenings of the month
without a feeling akin to horror, and the
outlook is, judging from present conditions, 
indeed very threatening to peace and safety.
	National Conventions held recently by
both great parties argue great political 
contests at election time, and the enthusiasm 
may turn ones attention from the sickening
depression caused by dwelling upon calami-
ties and causalities of recent occurrence.
	June has been beautiful in bloom this
year, roses and other fragrant blossoms in
great abundance, and with the numerous
parties, receptions and school entertain-
ments and weddings that have been given,
the flowers have added much in the way of
artistic decorations.


