THE NATIONAL BAZAR.
THE PIONEER’S RECEPTION.
	Magnificent weather greeted the first day
of the Bazar, and there was a great crowd
at the reception to the pioneers on the open-
ing night Of the pioneers invited, Mrs.
Stanton, Mrs. Howe and Mrs. Livermore
could not be present, but Miss Anthony,
Rev. Antoinette Brown Blackwell, Mrs.
Isabella Beecher Hooker, Mrs. Anna C.
Field and Mrs. Charlotte F. Wilbur were in
line. It was a pleasure to see that row of
white-haired ladies, most of them over
eighty, yet all of them fine looking, several
of them eminently handsome. It was a
work of time and difficulty to get near them
so great was the crush of the younger people
who pressed up to shake hands and congrat-
late them. The pretty girls who acted as
ushers finally linked hands and formed a
cordon, so as to keep off the crowd and make
the people pass in single file.
	Miss Anthony was, of course, the chief
attraction. Though still frail from the
illness brought on by her magnanimous and
successful effort to raise the sum needed to
secure the admission of girls to the Univer-
sity of Rochester, she looked very nice in
the point lace given her by the women of
the District of Columbia seventeen years
ago, and the historic ruby velvet gown that
has served as her “best dress” for the last
quarter of a century. Its good state of
preservation is her pride and a testi-
mony to her economic virtues. Except for
the remodelling of the sleeves, it has con-
ceded nothing to the changing fashions. The
enormous puffs in vogue when it was first
made have been taken off and cleverly
transformed into bags and needle cases,
which find a ready sale at the Susan B.
Anthony Booth.—Ex.


MRS. RUSSELL SAGE made several visits
to the Suffrage Bazar, and was a large buyer.
	ARISTOTLE is credited with being the first
European to discover the true origin of the
material from which was woven the precious
fabrics which for over a thousand years the
Orient alone had supplied to the West. In
his time the fabric known to use as chiffon
was first made by the Roman ladies, who
obtained their working material by unravel-
ing raw silk imported from Persia. The
actual introduction of silk culture into
Europe occurred much later, in the sixth
century, A. D., when two Nestorian Christ-
ians, risking death, which was the penalty
for such export, succeeded in bringing silk-
worm eggs from China at the instigation of
the Emperor Justinian.


