[Column 1]
	STORY OF ONE CHRISTMAS.
Who can tell what ships may be sailing towards
us over unknown seas?
	Christmas Eve, the memorable night
when the solemn stars shone out bright
and luminous on the pathway of Mary,
the Blessed Virgin, as she journeyed to-
wards Bethlehem of Judea; and she knew
not what awaited her, nor the tidings that
were to be given on that night of nights to
the country shepherds, abiding in the
fields, keeping watch over their flocks.
How the angel of the Lord came upon them
and His glory shone round about them,
and he declared unto them the glad tidings
of great joy, saying “Unto you is born this
day, in the city of David, a Savior, which
is Christ the Lord.” We all know the
sweet and touching story, so beautifully
portrayed by inspired men in days of old,
and handed down to us in Holy Writ.
	And thus many times since and even in
our own day have strange things come un-
expectedly in the course of human events,
and sometimes light and knowledge of
divine truth has been brought to the homes
and hearts of men and women, when they
knew not that the Lord was so mindful of
them, or that the angel spoken of in Reve-
lations had flown through the heavens bear-
ing the Everlasting Gospel to preach to
them that dwell on the earth, the message
of salvation; and sitting by their own hearth-
stones or toiling in the fields or workshops,
all unawares this message has come to
many thousands, not always upon Christ-
mas, or the Sabbath day, but sometimes
even so, and no greater Christmas gift can
one receive than the divine ray of light and
truth.
	Look back seventy years and picture to
yourself a home of peace and plenty in the
then far Western Reserve of Ohio, near the
great lakes. All is prosperous without and
within, and you may gaze into the living
room, where order and tranquility seeming-
ly abide, and hear the father, mother and
children singing an old Campbellite hymn,
as they sit around the fire of hickory logs.
Listen to the sweet voices! It is not a
Christmas carol, though Christmas is draw-
ing near, but a grand anthem of praise.

	“Burst ye emerald gates and bring
		To my enraptured vision, 
	All the ecstatic joys that spring,
		Round the bright Elysian.
	Lo! we lift our longing eyes,
		Break ye intervening skies!
	Son of righteousness arise,
		Ope the gates of Paradise!

	“Four and twenty Elders rise,
		From their princely station,
	Shout their glorious victories
		Sing the great salvation;
	Cast their crowns before His throne,
		Cry in reverential tone,
	Glory be to God alone!
		Holy, Holy, Holy One!”

	It is a fitting hymn for those whose hearts
are full of love and devotion. The evening
prayer is offered and the children in their
white night robes are taken away by the
nurse, after the usual goodnight kiss, and
the father and the mother sit talking over
the events of the day, refering to the chil-
dren and to those who are at school, and
proudly, too, of the eldest boy who is

[Column 2]
making rapid progress, while they are
somewhat puzzled what is best to do with
the girl who is almost as old as her brother
but prefers needle, thread and scissors to her
books.
	“We’ll send her to Painesville to the
girl’s Seminary,” says the father, anxious
to ease the mother’s mind.
	“I can’t help thinking,” says the fond
mother, “of my own home so far away, and
how little I realized until I had children of
my own what my mother must have felt
when I left her to come West with Aunt
Polly. Dear me, it is a dozen years ago or
more, how long it seems, and I’ve promised
them every year since I was married I
would visit dear old Bethany and New
Haven again.”
	“And so you shall this next spring. My
business has prospered beyond my wildest
dreams or ambition, the Lord has been more
merciful to me than I deserved, and there is
no reason now to delay your visit longer. I
shall go to New York to purchase goods and
will take you with me, and accompany you
to your old home and you can stay until I
transact my business and am ready to re-
turn,” said the husband in reply.
	“Aunt Polly will not consent to my leav-
ing the children, I’m sure, and I do not
know how I could trust them to hired help.
I fear my visit would be made uncomfortable
with thoughts of their being neglected in
my absence. I do not know what is best, I
wish they would come here and visit us.
How proud I should be to show them each
one of my little troop!”
	“Well, Mary, you have some months to
think it over and decide, and you can busy
yourself meantime with cutting and making
new apparel, for my wife must go home in
style and her girl friends will see tho’ she
went away out into the wild West, that she
is not behind them in dress or manner.”
	“O, as to that, I care very little, but
Aunt Polly’s feelings must be considered.
She has been father and mother to me, you
know, and she has no one except me and
mine to love or care for. But she is a
spinster and children annoy her, and she
cannot understand them. I must think the
matter over carefully.”
	“We’ve settled down for life now and we
must educate the children. Frank will
soon be ready for Oberlin, at the rate he is
progressing. His teacher told me today he
was far ahead of any boy in the school. We
need have no fears for him, and as for Lois,
she’ll be safe in the Seminary, and you must
make up your mind to go, my dear, and it
will be a benefit to your health and a great
satisfaction all around.”
	And so the matter was settled and sort of
dismissed from their minds, for it had often
been discussed before, but so many obstacles
always seemed in the way of accomplishing
the long journey, for such it was in those 
days.
	Silence reigned, such as comes from deep,
absorbing thought, when a loud knock at
the door caused Mrs. Emory to start and
exclaim, “Who can be coming so late?”
	Almost before she could finish the sentence
Mr. Emory was in the front entry unbolt-
ing the door, and the hearty “Good eve-
ning” of the strange voices rang through
the house, clear as a bell.
	“Walk in, gentlemen,” said the host,
and led the way to the fire. “My wife,
gentlemen. I have not the pleasure of
your acquaintance, unless—”
	The sentence remained unfinished, for the


