[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
Prof. Evan Stephens has begun the com-
pilation of a Hymn Book for the
Primary Associations suitable to the needs
and understanding of the little folks, and
that will stimulate them to excel in vocal
exercises. We understand the hymns and
songs are by local writers and are carefully
selected.
We acknowledge with sincere thanks the
gift of the little pamphlet of the late Con-
ference and banquet, which is a brief sum-
mary of Primary work, though not given in
statistics, the papers and remarks show
plainly the progress of this beautiful work
among the children of Zion There cannot
be too much said of this noble undertaking
of these good sisters who freely, for the
love of the children, have taken hold of
this primary work which lies at the found-
ation of the lives of those who are to be
the very bulwarks of the Church in days to
come.
We are very much pleased to hear that on

[Column 2]
President C. O. Card’s birthday, Novem-
ber 5, of this year, the day was made a
social event at the Card home in Cardston,
Canada, and the commodious new brick
residence of the family was dedicated with
appropriate ceremony. May health, pros-
perity and all that tends to make life
valuable be and abide with President Card
and his entire family, and especially do we
rejoice that Sister Young Card has a home
where she can dispense the generous hos-
pitality in a social way which she has al-
ways delighted in doing.
Since our last issue of the paper visits
have been made by members of the General
Board and others. Cache Stake conference
at Logan, President Jane S. Richards and
Sister Ellen J. Stevens; Oneida Stake con-
ference, at Preston, President Susan Grant,
who also accompanied President L. B. Ben-
son, of the Relief Society of that Stake in her
visits to each of the settlements where she
has jurisdiction. Sister L. Lula Greene
Richards attended Tooele Stake conference,
at Grantsville. We have a letter from
President Ann C: Woodbury, who has
recently been visiting through the Southern 
part of St. George Stake visiting and hold-
ing meetings with every Relief Society in
the locality, and from others who have
visited at a distance, which will be published
later.
On Tuesday, November 20, President
M. Isabella Horne reached the great age of
82 years A party was given in her honor
by her daughters at the residence of her
daughter, Mrs. Minnie H. James. About
twenty of the sisters and intimate personal
friends were present, among them the
venerable sisters, Presidents Zina D. H.
Young and Bathsheba W. Smith, Sister
Julia C. Howe and other dear friends and
relatives. Many loving congratulations
were extended to the veteran Mother in
Israel and tokens of remembrance given.
Dainty refreshments were served and after
sweet interchange of greetings, and so forth,
Sister Horne blessed the sisters present, in
a song or chant in the gift of tongues,
which was very gratifying and inspirational.
Sister Zina gave the interpretation in her
sweet, motherly way and a general time of
rejoicing was enjoyed by all. The EX-
PONENT offers its best congratulations to this
aged mother and sister, and desires that she
may live many years yet, or so long as
she can retain her faculties of mind and
activity of body, or while life is desirable.


