[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society conference
convened in the Tabernacle August 24,
1900, Stake President Elizabeth DeLong
presiding.
	Present on the stand besides the Stake
officers were Sister Margaret A. Caine, who
had come especially for the conference,
President Cameron, Bishop A. Hiller and
counselors, Bishop Culbert King, Patriarch
Joseph L. Heywood, beside in the congre-
gation many prominent men of Panguitch
and other wards.
	After singing, and prayer by David
Cameron, the roll was called. Minutes of
previous conference were read and accepted,
also the order of business in accepting the
resignation of Sister Barbara Myers and
sustaining the new officers, which was made
part of the records. A vote of thanks was
tendered Sister Myers for many years of
faithful service as Stake President.

[Column 2]
	Mary B. Heywood reported the Panguitch
ward. Said the March 17 anniversary was
well observed and had the effect of putting
new life into the society for a little while.
	President Sarah Howell reported Circle-
ville. Felt they were doing fairly well
under the circumstances.
	President Mary T. Wilcox reported
Escalante. They had seventy-five members
and an average attendance of thirty. The
teachers gave good reports.
	President Delilah Rowan reported
Marion. Their society was small but com-
pared favorably with those already reported.
	President Isabelle King reported Kings-
ton. Some young girls had lately joined.
The sisters were all good and willing to help
whenever called upon.
	President DeLong was pleased to see so
many present. Had visited all the societies
except Marion, would go there later. Had
no Mothers’ clubs but were all mothers or
would like to be, and ought to be qualified
to fill any position in the gift of the Gospel
or the gift of the government. Wanted to
give the time to Sister Caine, who had
come to talk to us, prayed the Lord to bless
her to this end.
	Sister Caine felt pleased with all she had
seen in regard to the society here. The
Lord had never given a law restraining the
Latter-day Saints in gaining knowledge.
The Prophet Joseph studied diligently all
the time and at his death spoke three dif-
ferent languages besides his own tongue.
Wished to extend the greeting of Aunt
Zina and counselors, also Sister Wells, who
are just as interested as they can be in all
the sisters. Wanted to talk on the real ob-
ject of society work this afternoon, as it had
been inferred there would be more present.
	Counselor David Cameron felt the society
was a great place for learning, looked upon
it as a society of [-]otherly queens. We are
equally interested in Father’s work, men
and women, and would hardly know how to
get along without the Relief Society in
time of sickness and need. Prayed the
Lord to bless the society everywhere.
	Congregation sang "Zion stands with
hills surrounded." Prayer by Bishop King.
	Afternoon session. Conference recon-
vened at 2 p. m. After singing and prayer,
Bishop Allen Hiller said he knew of no
organization that was of more importance in
the ward than the society, nor more alive
and active.
	Report of 1899 was read and approved.
	Sister Permelia Hatch then reported
Mammoth society. Their ward was nearly
broken up on account of the reservoir flood.
	Sister Caine wanted the sisters to under-
stand the purpose of the organization, no
other can take the place of this. It was to
qualify them for high and holy positions.
Mothers can better prepare for family
prayers than any one else, also to instil the
principle of tithe-paying upon the children.
Retrenchment as taught by President Young
did not mean altogether in dress, but in
cooking good and wholesome food and less
pastry, and in all our home work to find
time to improve the mind. If we sustain
those who are placed over us the Lord will
bless aud preserve us against the judg-
ments to come. President Woodruff
approved of the International Council of
Women and of the Relief Society affiliating
with both the National and International
Councils. Asked the sisters to sustain the
EXPONENT.
	Singing “How firm a foundation.”

[Column 3]
	General and Stake officers were sustained
unanimously.
	Counselor Alice J. Cameron felt weak,
but well paid in attending meeting.
	Sister M. Isabelle Henrie felt we had re-
ceived much valuable instruction and with
the help of the Lord intended to improve
her opportunities better.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing “Praise to God, immortal praise.”
Prayer by James Houston.
