OBITUARY.
SKETCH AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Resolutions adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Emery Relief Society in honor of their
beloved sister; Beata Burton Hansen, who de-
parted this life after an illness of one month with
typhoid fever. Sister Hansen died July 26, 1900,
at her residence in Emery Co., Utah. She was
born in Helmstad, Sweden, December 14, 1838.
She embraced the Gospet of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in her native home and emigrated to 
Utah in 1863. She was married at Manti City,
Sanpete Co., in 1863, to Peter Hansen. She was
the mother of ten children, six sons and four
daughters, eight of whom survive her. They were
all present at her funeral except one son who is
filling a mission to the Northern States. She
along with her husband was called to leave their
home in Sanpete, which they did, and go and help
to build up what is known as Castle Valley, in the
year 1880. They helped to build up three settle-
ments, known as Castle Dale, Ferron and Emery.
	Sister Beata was a good, faithful sister. She
was a mother to the orphan and a friend to all
who knew her. She acted as counselor in the
Emery Relief Society for a long time and after-
wards as a teacher in the Relief Society. She
never tired in doing good. 
	Sister Hansen was conscious to the last and
called her children to her bedside and bade the
all good bye, then passed peacefully a[-]ay.
	Resolved That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved sister and friend to her heavenly 
home, that we desire to emulate her noble example
and that we herewith express our heartfelt sym-
pathy for her husband, her children and grand-
children. Be it further
	Resolved, That these resolutions be placed on
the records of the society, a copy be sent to the
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				ELIZA O. JORGENSEN, Pres.
				LUELLE CHRISTENSEN, Sec. 
HATRIET CAMPKIN YOUNG.
	It is with sincere regret we record the death of
one of our faithful sisters in Three Mile Creek,
Box Elder Co., who departed this life on August
30, 1900.
	Sister Harriet Campkin Young was born at
Biggleswade Bedfordshire, England, on the 23rd of
May 1852. She was the daughter of Isaac Campkin
and Martha Webb.
	In the spring of the year 1856 Brother Campkin
and family started for Zion and arrived at St.
Louis in safety. While there Brother Campkin
was taken down with typhoid fever and in a short 
time succumbed to that disease. The widowed
mother with her family of five small children con-


tinued their journey, crossing the plains with
Captain Willey’s handcart company, arriving in
Salt Lake sometime in October of the same year.
After a short stay they came to Box Elder Co.,
locating at Three Mile Creek, where they have
since resided.
	Sister Harriet accepted the principal of plural
marriage and became the wife of Thomas Young,
December 23, 1878. She was the mother of four
children, all of whom survive her. We deeply
sympathize with them in their bereavement, know-
ing they have lost a faithful wife and loving
mother.
	Sister Harriet has been identified with the Relief
Society from its organization, and has ever been
an earnest worker in the cause of truth. At the
reorganization of our society. August 15, 1891, she
was chosen a teacher, which position she held at
the time of her death. She magnified this calling
with credit to herself and honor to her sisters.
Her good counsel and instruction will long be re-
membered by them.
	Naturally of a quiet, retiring disposition, yet she
was always at her post of duty and on hand at
every call. She was a true and faithful Latter-
day Saint and as such we mourn her departure,
yet feel to acknowledge the hand of our Father,
knowing “He doeth all things well,” and we
feel to say “Sister, Rest in peace, all is well, your 
reward is sure.”
			NELLIE ROBERTS, Secretary


