AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON.
			[Continued.]
	It was about noon when we arrived at
their home. Some of the guests had arrived
when we got there. Soon a gentleman
came into the room where I was sitting. He
looked at me and then turned to my sister
who was just coming in and said, “Is this
your sister?” to which she answered “Yes.”
“Then,” he said, “We shall very soon
have her in our ranks. I can see the blood
of Joseph rushing through her veins.”
	I was filled with anger, and in a moment
I said, “I know you never will.” He was
a stranger to me; in fact they all were. I
set my mind firmly against them and all
they could say. They were very kind to
me; some of them tried to tell me about the
Gospel; some bore a faithful testimony;
they sang beautiful hymns, some I had
learned from the Wesleyan hymn book. But
the more they tried to attract my attention
the harder I felt towards them. After the
close of the party they asked me how I
had enjoyed myself, and I told them it had
been the most unhappy day of my life.
Some of them said they would pray for me,
but I told them I did not want any of their
prayers in my behalf, and that they had
better ask the Lord to open their eyes to
see their delusion. I was a mere child,
but I knew what they said was Bible doc-
trine, for I had read that time and time
again. I sincerely believed they were the
false prophets that the Bible said would
come in the last days. I hardened my heart
against all they said and wept to think I
had fallen into such a snare.
	The next morning I asked my sister for
some writing material as I wished to write
to my mother and have her come and bring
me home. The letter was written but my
mother never received it, I do not know
what became of it. I could not walk around
for I was so weak, and I was so sorrowful
that I did not even pray as I used to. I
kept in that mood until the Wednesday fol-
lowing Christmas. My sister and her hus-
band appeared very happy and were very
kind to me.
	After they had retired I thought I would
pray and ask the Lord to show me through
His spirit if I were doing right in en-
couraging such a bad feeling. I had prayed


