A GOOD WOMAN GONE.
She is not Dead but Sleepeth.
Caroline Hopkins Clark, wife of Bishop John
Clark, who departed this life October 30, 1900 at
the advanced age of 69 years, five months and 15
days, was born at Sutton, Warwickshire. England,
on the 16th day of May. 1831. She became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the spring of 1849, and came to Utah
in the fall of 1866, settling in Coalville. She was
the mother of seventeen children, nine of whom
survive her—seven sons and two daughters—and
grandmother to fifty-one grandchildren and seven
great grandchildren. On the 22nd day of August,
1887, she was chosen president of the Upton Relief
Society, which position she held up to her death.
She was the daughter of Samuel and Ann Hopkins,
to whom were born three sons and seven daugh-
ters. At an early age she left the home of her
childhood for the Gospel’s sake—she being the
only one in the family to join the Church—and
came to Utah. Deceased was just and kind to all,
a loving wife, kind and indulgent mother and be-
loved by all who knew her, She died in full faith
of the Gospel with the hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. The funeral services over the remains were
held from the meeting house on Saturday, Novem-
ber 3, and it was the largest attended funeral ever
held in Upton. The room was beautifully decor-
ated with flowers. President W. W. Cluff was the
speaker at the services. Twenty-three vehicles
loaded with sorrowing friends followed the remains
to their last resting place.
Just a few minutes before her death Mrs. Clark
repeated the following verse:
	Affliction sore, long time I bore, 
	Physicians were in vain,
	Till death did ease and God did please
	To ease me from my pain.
		CARD OF THANKS.
In behalf of my family I wish to heartily thank
all those who so kindly assisted in any way during
the illness and death of my wife. I also wish to
thank J. W. Simister and the members of the choir
for the excellent music rendered at the funeral.
May all be rewarded for the good they did.
