[Column 1]
UNVEILING OF PIONEER MONUMENT.
	The final ceremonies of unveiling the
pioneer monument, as completed, with the
three added figures, the Indian the trapper
and pioneer group, took place July 24, at
10:30 a. m. Seats had been arranged in-
side the iron railing for speakers and dis-
tinguished guests, and the public filled the
street roundabout and occupied all the
available space in the windows and porches
of buildings near by. The Brigham Young
Memorial Association had charge of the
exercises, (Hon. James Sharp president)
which were mostly of a reminiscent char-
acter. At 9:30 Held’s Military band
stationed near the monument opened
the exercises with some of the old familiar
airs appropriate to the occasion, in com-
memorating the founding of the State.
President George Q. Cannon made the ad-
dress of the day.
	He said “that being one of the pioneers
who came here in 1847, many reminiscen-
ces crowded his mind and he could not
help drawing contrasts between conditions
now and those existing here fifty-three
years ago. While some people cannot or
will not acknowledge that Brigham Young
was an inspired man and a prophet of God,
all will concede the fact that he was a
great man and a strong leader of men.
When the Pioneers first looked into this
valley all was desolation: the courses of
the streams running into the valley being
marked by willows, the only green to be
seen. When Brigham Young saw the
valley he declared it to be the stopping
place of the pilgrims, and this in the face
of assertions of trappers and hunters that
it would be impossible for a community to
live here. He sent exploring parties to
the south and to the north to investigate
the country and all returned declaring that
the decision of Brigham Young was a wise
one. The people suffered almost untold
hardships during the first years of life in
this valley when the elements were more
inclement than now. They suffered the
pangs of hunger in their most extreme dis-
tress. Once a week in my uncle’s house,
where I lived, said the speaker, we would
weigh out our provisions in the family and
then eke them out for the week. Our
rations were very short, we did not have
enough to eat; we were hungry, very
hungry—hungry to the ends of our fingers;
hungry to the ends of our toes; always
hungry—one good meal would not suffice
to satisfy us, our hunger was so great.
We cut thistle tops to eat and I never
tasted such “greens” in my life. I
actually began to get fat on thistle tops.
Even boiled hides were eaten by the peo-
ple, and even after the grain had been
planted and began to grow, giving promise
of a bread supply, the crickets came and
swept it all away and added more hard-
ships to those already endured by the set-
tlers.
	“When gold was first discovered in
California, Brigham Young advised the
people to remain here and cultivate the
land, promising them that they should
be prospered if they did so. And while it
has been charged against Brigham Young
that he discouraged the development of the
mineral industries of Utah, the sequel
proved that his advice was wise, for by re-
maining at home and producing food the
people placed themselves beyond the dan-
ger of a shortage of food supplies and put
them in a position to pursue the search for

[Column 2]
gold and silver without jeopardizing the
lives of their families by lack of something
to sustain life.
	“I am not much of a believer in monu-
ments, for I think that men and their good
deeds should live in memory; but this
present monument is a very proper one.
The story of the pilgrimage of the Pioneers
and their settlement here should be told
and retold to our children in order that
they may know of the heroic deeds done by
their forefathers.”
	Hon. James T. Hammond said that he
did not believe in the worship of a monu-
ment, but thought the accomplishment
which it represented was the thing to be
revered. Mr. Hammond reviewed the his-
tory of the erection of the monument and
the life of the sculptor, Mr. C. E. Dallin,
and introduced that gentleman, who said:
	“Friends, it is some twenty years since
I turned my face eastward toward the un-
known land of my hopes and aspirations,
and as one who has visited strange lands
and seen many sights, I return to the font
where I first drank the life-giving waters 
of pure inspiration. To those who are
born and reared amid these circling hills
have little need to tell what a potent
spell they have, and as whatever little I
have done has been directly tracable to
their influence, you can well understand
how they are intimately connected with
the most sacred part of my being. To the
mighty forms of sculptural beauty and the 
ever changing lights and shades of the
peaks my mind was ever atuned and as the
history of sculpture plainly shows, sculp-
tors have ever been reared amid the
mountains. These silent formative  in-
fluences are even deeper and more lasting
than we realize, and to you who have the
privilege of this silent communion of the
hills your spirits must ever be awake to
the beauty and poetry that daily speak to
you from the mighty heights.
	“Art of every kind is simply the realiza-
tion that beauty lies around us on every
hand, and the artist is only he who pos-
sibly realizes more fully this truth, and he
only becomes an artist in trying to reveal
this truth to his fellow man. Art to the
many is considered a luxury or an accom-
plishment, whereas in truth it is one of the
most necessary functions of a well ordered.
life, and to deprive man of this means of
expression would plunge him into a bar- 
barism from which there would be no hope
of ever rescuing him.
	“The monument as it now stands is an
attempt to depict the early history and
condition of Utah, and with the exception
of Brigham Young, the statues are repre-
sentative. Thus the Indian represents the
early condition that prevailed in this valley
before the advent of the whites, and the
trapper represents the first white man that
ever penetrated the wilderness. The
Pioneer group represents the hardy, in-
domitable family that first made their home
in the wilderness, and from them sprang
the first civilization of the great West.”
THE UNVEILING. 
	It was just 10:58 a. m. when a trumpet
call was sounded and the veil of banners
was loosened and fell from around the
monument disclosing the new bronze
figures, while the band played “America,”
Then there were cheers and the crowd
surged about the monument to view the
figures that finished the monument to the
Pioneers and their brave deeds.


Miss Margaret Young, a daughter of
Major R. W. Young, and a great grand-
daughter of Brigham Young, drew the
cord that released the veiling.


