[Column 1]
A THANKSGIVING INCIDENT.
	Horace, I’m going home to Thanks-
giving tomorrow, it will be our last in
New England, if we go West in the spring,
and I must spend it in the old home with
mother and the folks,” said a timid young
bride to her husband, who could not think
of refusing her, tho’ he knew his mother
would object, which she did very strongly.
But young Mrs. H. was determined, tho'
saddened by the opposition; or did she
have premonitions of the future which she
could not comprehend. Be that as it may, 
we shall see what followed.
	Thanksgiving morning came after a
sleepless night, for so sensitive was the
young bride that an unkind word or even

[Column 2]
a look was enough to bring tears to her
eyes, so pitifully young and tender-hearted
was this bride of a few months.
	The breakfast table presented some ap-
pearance of approaching festivities, with
evergreen vines and bowls of winter
flowers, and the indispensable savory
meats and pumpkin pie. But tho’ the
family urged the young couple to remain
with them, Mrs. H could not consent, and
soon the merry sleigh bells were jingling
at the door, and off they flew over the hills
and down the accustomed road by the pond
where skating was already beginning, for
the weather was cold in those days and
snow and ice were plentiful.
	The sleigh ride was exhilarating and the
gloom wore off as they gaily sped along,
every house, every tree was familiar and
they talked of the village people as they
sped over the country roads, but ever and
anon came to the young wife the forebod-
ings of the future leave-taking of the old
home and friends, the forest, through
which they drove on their way reminded
her most of all of what it would be to leave
the dear old woods and giant trees under
which she had so often sat and dreamed
wide awake of the happy days to come.
“And now were these day dreams to be
realized?” was her thought as she sped
homeward.
	Looking at the house and trees beautiful
in the white snow, out came the dear
ones to welcome her, and her thoughts
were, "This is a day for giving thanks.”
	We are all here except one or two
whom we expect later because of the dis-
tance,” said the dear mother. “We’re
glad to see you here, we were fearful you
would be detained at home. Now we
shall all be together once more before you
take that long journey Westward.”
	Those were not the days of fast trains
and electric cars. People came from miles
away in old-fashioned coaches or one
horse chaise to celebrate festive occasions
and in the winter time sleighs were plenti-
ful, everybody used them.
	Through the great, wide rooms adorned
with hemlock boughs and evergreen vines,
with the scarlet berries, the young wife,
led by the little ones, wended her way,
pausing before the great fire of pine knots
to take off her wraps, for the staircase was
cold after the long ride in the frosty morn-
ing air. Already the younger children
were plying her with questions and telling
her how they missed her when gathering
the evergreens and ferns to decorate with.
	“We didn’t know where to find the pret-
tiest vines, such as you always brought
home other years, and we had such a
tramp around by the great rocks we’ll
never care to go again even in summer
time if you’re not here to show us.”
	“Come and look at the table, Sarah, you
will see what a  Thanksgiving dinner
smoking hot is ready, only waiting for
William and Eliza, with little Isadore,”
and before the party reached the North
room, never used except when tables were
set for many guests, because too large to
warm with only a fireplace, another sleigh

[Column 3]
came jingling its bells up the lane, and out
flew the occupants, and wild with delight
came little Katie and all the crowd to greet
with real thanksgiving the new arrivals.
	Soon all were seated, the mother having
arranged them all in order on each side
with the eldest married son at the head of
the table to carve the steaming roast turkey
while she served the vegetables, taking
sp cial pains to have the baked beans pip-
ing hot from the large brown earthen pan
in which they had come from the great
brick oven in the kitchen. The mother
herself pronounced the blessing and the
feasting was graced with the usual New
England Table Talk of bounteous harvests
and Thanksgiving events, entertainments,
sleigh rides and balls.
	The dinner over the family gathered into 
the long living room where the air was frag-
grant with the perfume of spruce and hem-
lock. Outside the snow was falling, but
little heed was paid to the storm, for around
the blazing fire the young people and chil-
dren kept up a constant stream of lively
conversation, laughing, jest and song,
nothing could bespeak the genuine enjoy-
ment and goodfellowship of the household
more than this scene presented oh that
Thanksgiving in the old home.
	But we must hasten on to tell our story
and not linger over details, however
agreeable that may be to us.
	There was a sort of feeling, a premonition
among the guests that this was a farewell 
party, and each one tried to shake off the
foreboding that seemingly darkened their
hearts and the house itself even tho’
lamps were lighted and the pine knots blazed
higher as the evening advanced. Around
the hearth in a half semicircle the family
group gathered, and stories of frolic and ad-
venture were told to dispel the gloom, and
old, old songs were sung and childhood’s
memories recalled, and as it grew late, the
little ones were put to bed with prayers
upon their lips, and the ring around the
fireside broken in upon, when on a sudden,
in the middle of singing “Lochinvar,” the
joyous music of a band burst upon the
evening air; the doors were flung open and
in came the jolly crowd of musicians and
their friends. It broke the spell and dis-
pelled the gloom and for a few hours sweet
strains of music filled the rooms and glad-
dened all hearts, and was indeed a chorus of
thanksgiving and praise. What we owe to
music is indeed beyond language to express.
The young people and the band had come
in unbidden to salute the bride, not having
had the opportunity to serenade the bridal
party at the time of their wedding as they
had gone away immediately to the adjacent
town, but hearing they were at the old
home for Thanksgiving, and also being
aware of their intention to go West in the
Spring, this was an opportune time, and
the music and revelry was kept up to a
late hour, so that there was no further
chance to indulge in the “blues,” or to bid
a melancholy adieu to those who had come
long distances, except in haste, as one after
another the sleighs drove away after it was
past the midnight hour.


But as coming events cast their shadows
before, so it was with those assembled there
at that time, and they parted disguising
their real feelings in pity for each other.
Byron says:
	“Lets not unman each other—part at once
	All farewells should be sudden when forever
	Else they make an eternity of moments.”
	Never again did those assembled on that
evening all meet together. Out from under
that roof tree, where so many happy days
had been spent, so many festive occasions
celebrated, they went, and no doubt the
picture lingered lovingly in their memory
long years after. It is now more than fifty
years, and the vision is in the mind of the
writer still vivid. The wintry scene with-
out; the winter decorations within; the blaz-
ing fires; the New England dinner; the
generous hospitality; the jokes, the songs,
the merriment—and over all the shadows of
the future; the broken home; the scattered
flock; the desolate hearthstone.
	Where are they now? Some sleep in
warrior’s graves, who were babies then; and
one beside the sea in the far-off Indies, the
mother in an unknown grave on the broad
Western prairie, and others died at home
and their graves are marked by monuments
of stone; and some of the older ones still
live with large families of their own, and of
these a few are aged and feeble, looking for-
ward to the brighter and more complete
Thanksgiving, when they shall meet the
blessed mother and the loved ones gone be-
fore.
	Many joys have crowned the lives of some
of those assembled on that day, although the
world is full of sorrows and of mourning,
yet there have been many melodious days
and happy hours, and looking backward
over life’s changing, shifting scenes, one
cannot regret, but must rejoice that such
family meetings occur to link more closely
together kindred ties, even if the shadows
do hang over them.
	A New England Thanksgiving lives in
the memory of the writer one of its most
beautiful, ideal pictures; and may the cus-
tom which originated with our Pilgrim
Fathers, and which has become general
throughout the United States, be perpetuated
forever.
