[Column 1]	
	LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held on Saturday, May 12, 1900, in the
Fourteenth Ward Hall, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Opened by singing,
“God moves in a mysterious way.’’ Prayer
by Sister Clara C. Cannon. Singing “Let
us pray, gladly pray.’’ Minutes read and
approved.
	President Horne said it seems necessary
that we assemble ourselves together often
and be stirred up in the principles of the
Gospel. Spoke of the calamity of the
Scofield explosion that had recently hap-
pened, causing so much death and sorrow

[Column 2]
among us, and that she would like to give
every woman in Salt Lake Stake a chance
to contribute to their relief.
	A sister from the Eleventh Ward spoke
of the terrible calamity, said their society
had made a collection for the widows and
orphans.
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and related her experiences in the
missionary field in Holland. Another sis-
ter bore a testimony of the truth and told of
her interest in Temple work.
	The congregation sang “Redeemer of
Israel.’’
	Sister Zina D. H. Young said the spirit
we partake of here refreshes us in body and
in mind, begged all to be humble and meek
and true to their obligations and never
speak evil especially of the priesthood.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the wonder-
ful history of the building we are now in,
and of the spirit of God that people had been
endowed with who had spoken here. She
thought we ought to keep good records in
our Relief Society, felt that the history of
our work should be written and kept. Spoke
of the difficulty that the Young Ladies’
Society was having in trying to collect the
early history of their organization. Re-
ferred to her recent trip to New York and
how she enjoyed meeting with the brothers
and sisters there. Testified that the Lord
had always preserved her from accident in
her travels. Miss M. Snow and herself
were well received by the women of the
Daughters of the Revolution. Told us she
was preparing a complete file of the EX-
PONENT for the Paris Exposition; that it
was the oldest woman’s paper in the West.
She had often heard it said theEXPONENTwas
a good missionary, and a number of our
missionaries had told her it was. Thanked
the Lord for the organization of the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph turned
the key for women in 1842, he organized
the first society of women in the world, not
till that time were women organized and
the women of the world were adopting
many of our plans of organization in their
societies. She believed our influence was
being felt for good among the women of
the world. Spoke of their good work, she
felt the Relief Society was the high school
of the womens organizations. Said she felt
it was proper that the Salt Lake Stake
Relief Society should give fifty dollars to
the Scofield sufferers.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the influence of
the EXPONENT and the good she believed it
would do in the world, and spoke of thejndg-
ments that would begin in the house of the
Lord.
	Sister Langton said she desired to live to
do good and be filled with charity.
	A sister in the congregation bore a testi-
mony of the truth.
	President Horne said she thought the
price of the EXPONENT was within the
reach of all, and thought we ought to
support it.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “The
God we adore.’’ Benediction by Sister
Julia C. Howe.
		M. Y. TAYLOR, Act. Sec.


MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL has edited
and now publishes the report of the third
triennial meeting of the National Council of
Women held last year in Washington, D.
C. It is a volume of more than three hun-
dred pages, containing stenographic report
of all the meetings.


