[Column 1]
Lang. Singing, “May we who know the
joyful sound.” Roll called, nine officers
present. Minutes of morning session of
previous conference were read and accepted.
	President Shepherd said it does us good
to meet and hear the reports of the differ 
ent branches; also of the growth of these
organizations in the past fifty-eight yeats,
and the many duties devolving upon us—
building, looking after the sick, etc.
	Bishop Mumford spoke of the good spirit
here, also of the necessity of attending our
different conferences. We should not
neglect spiritual for temporal duties. Re-
ferred to the judgments which are abroad
on the face of the earth, and felt that more
of our young sisters should identify them-
selves with the Relief Society.
	Vice-President M. A. Tolton bore testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and the
divine mission of Joseph Smith. Spoke of
the necessity of living up to our
many duties.
	Sister Harriet Ashworth sweetly sang
“He Knows.”
	Sister S. M. Dell felt well in this work.
Prayed the Lord to bless us.
	Sister Sarah Walker said the Miners-
ville sisters had built a hall which they de-
sired to finish and dedicate another year.
They had a good set of sisters, alive to
their duties.
	Sister Edward Stevenson, of Salt Lake
City, who had arrived since meeting opened,
was pleased to be with us and feel the good
spirit here. This a grand work organized
by the Prophet Joseph. The first organiz-
ation consisted of comparatively young
women, now our young sisters do not unite
with us as they should. The prophet said
the Church was not fully organized until
the Relief Society was organized, which
was not only to look after the needy, com-
fort the afflicted, etc., but to provoke our
husbands to their duties; never allow our
children to speak lightly against the holy
priesthood and those in authority, brethren
or sisters. Spoke of the sad disaster at
Schofield, also the judgments befalling the
nations. Referred to the sacred duties of
teachers, our annual meeting and ten
cent donations and other obligations. Re-
ferred to the instructions of President
Young to the sisters in regard to building,
storing grain, etc. The young sisters
should come and learn how to train the
precious jewels entrusted to their care.
	Bishop George Eyres made encouraging
and eulogistic remarks.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. to L. D.
S. meeting house. Singing “Lord dismiss
us.” Benediction by President M. L.
Shepherd.
	Afternoon session opened at 2 o’clock p.
m. by singing “We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet.” Prayer by Professor W.
G. Bickley. Singing, “How firm a
foundation.” Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference read and ap-
proved.
	President J. W. Bickley reported the
Beaver Relief Society in good condition.
Have work meetings every week. Grain
has been in good condition until the present
time, but now mice are working through
the ceiling, but we intend to take im-
mediate steps to stop their depredations.
	President Susan Roberts reported the
Minersville Society in a prosperous con-
dition. The sisters are united and turn out
well both to religious and work meetings.
	President Winnie Miller reported the

[Column 2]
Greenville society prosperous; fair attend-
ance; rock on hand to build a hall.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
and the General and Stake officers of the
Relief Society were presented and sustained.
	A solo was sweetly rendered by Sister
Janet Shipp.
	Stake Counselor M. A. White spoke on
the many duties of mothers and the care
necessary in training our children. The
Relief Society is a great help to mothers.
	Sister Stevenson felt very humble in
standing before us. “Motherhood is a
grand mission. These noble spirits which
we have to bear were held in reserve for
this dispensation.” She spoke of the neces-
sity of a watch care over our sons and
daughters, gaining their confidence, teach-
ing them virtue and the necessity of purity
in matrimonial life, that wives may be
healthy and raise pure offspring; also spoke
on faith, household duties, economy,
cleanliness the word of wisdom and every
good virtue. The sisters should belong to
the Relief Society. It is suggested that
each pay a little towards building a house
for the General Society. Encouraged the
sisters to sustain the Exponent. We
should read good literature and not trashy
novels. Bore a faithful testimony to the
Gospel.
	President C. D. White spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to labor and
lighten the burdens of mothers; also the law
of tithing. Sabbath breaking was spoken
strongly against.
	President Shepherd made closing re-
marks. Primary conference was announced
for the next day at 2 o’clock p. m., and
conference adjourned till the second Friday
in November. Singing, “The spirit of
God.” Benediction by Patriarch D. Tyler.
	ALICE M. T. TANNER, Stake Sec.


