[Column 1]
little by little until I was fully convinced
that it was true. This was in 1846. My
sister was in Nauvoo at this time and when
I wrote to her I asked her if the men there
had more than one wife. She said they did
some of them, but it was not publicly
known to the world. My companion, Sarah
Martin, and I used to talk about it when
we were together, and read about it in the
Bible until we were fully satisfied about it.
We never spoke of it to any of our friends,
and we made a vow that if ever we did
marry we would marry the same man.
Time rolled on, but we never swerved from
our promise. We said that we would not
marry until we came to where the Saints
were. The young man with whom I had
kept company left his home and went to
London, but I had long since decided that
we two should never wed. At this time
that principle was not known among the
people there, but we knew of it, and had
set our minds on what should be our lot.
We had several chances to marry, but the
conditions were not what we wanted, so we
refused. 
	In the early spring of 1850, Brother
Christopher Layton returned from Cali-
fornia, where he had gone as a member of
the Mormon Batalion. We had known him
before he went to America. He had left
England in January, 1843, for Nauvoo, and
while there his wife had died leaving a little
girl one year old; this my sister kept for
him.
	One night there was an Elder at our
place who had just returned from America,
and we were very anxious that the people
should hear him, so we invited our neigh-
bors in. But instead of their coming with
a pure motive, they called in all of the
roughest element for miles around and
came to do mischief. As the Elder was
talking they began throwing stones at the
house. The house being made of concrete,
the plaster was soon knocked off and the
windows broken. They had formed two
lines along the path, thinking to catch the
Elder and some of the Saints and drag them
to the river and throw them into it. But
they were defeated, for we led them around
another way. They climbed over our live
fence and made their escape while the mob
waited.
	This was very hard on my father, for he
was not a Mormon and it worried him. The
mob continued throwing stones for some
time. Finally my father went out and
told them that the Elder was far away. This
he did for two reasons: one for the safety of
his property, and the other was to find out
who some of the men were. This he did.
The next day the landlord came and told
father that he would have to leave that
home. “For,” said he, “you see what
your wife and daughter have brought you
into.” I told father that the Lord would
help us to get another house. Before that
day was past he had secured another and
the following day we moved. The land-
lord saw what he had done, and sent word
that he was sorry for what he had done in
his anger. Within a year my father and

[Column 2]
mother moved back to the old home in
which I had lived all of my days so far.
	Soon after the return of Brother Layton
his sister sent for my mother and me to
come over, as he wanted to see us. We
were pleased to see him, as he had seen my
sister not long before. He told us that he
was going to return to Utah in the fall and
that he would be pleased to take me with
him. This suited me very well. The next
day he came over to our house and asked
my mother if she would give me to him for
his wife. This she refused, as she said she
did not believe in hasty marriages. He
asked me what I thought about it, and I
told him that my mother had always wished
me well, and that I would not go against
her wishes. He then told me that he should
go over to see Sarah Martin. I told him
that she would be glad to see him, as we
had been brought up close neighbors. He
asked her to be his wife and she consented.
She was about four years my senior. He
told us then that the Latter-day Saints be-
lieved in having more than one wife. We
told him that we knew that and had
understood it for a long time. He asked us
if we would be willing  to live together when
we should arrive in Utah. We told him
then that we had made that agreement long
since, and that we had no desire to break it.
	I did not tell my parents what I intended
to do, neither did Sarah Martin; but it was
understood between the three of us.
		(To be continued.)


56
