[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
MARICOPA STAKE.
	Report of the Relief Society conference of
the Maricopa Stake, held June 14, 1900,
opened with the usual exercises. Present
of the brethren were Stake President Collins
R. Hakes and Counselor H. C. Rogers, also
Ward Sunday School Superintendent George
T. Wilson. Four Stake officers of the Relief
Society were present and six ward officers.
Four out of the six wards were reported
favorably, though there had been much
sickness and some deaths in the Lamanite
ward since last conference. The sisters of
the Relief Society of that ward have had
work to perform in taking care of the sick
and laying out and dressing the dead, but
by being humble they are blessed.
	President Mabel A. Hakes had been to
Salt Lake to General Conference to repre-
sent our Stake since our last conference,
and was glad she could do so favorably.
The subjects spoken upon were storing
grain, or as we have to do, canning it, on
account of so many insects in this country,
following after the fashions of the world,
unity, charity and example, etc., all tend-
ing to strengthen and encourage the sisters
in well-doing, making this one of the best
conferences we have ever had.
			ANNA E. FULLER, Sec.
CASSIA STAKE.
	Minutes of the conference of the Relief
Society of Cassia Stake, convened at Elba,
June 22, 1900, President Louisa Haight
presiding. Present Counselor Ann Wilson,
various ward presidents, also Stake presi-
dent William T. Jack and counselors.
	Conference opened by the choir singing
“O Lord, our Father, let Thy grace.”
Prayer by Brother Wells Hess.
	President Louisa Haight felt pleased to
meet with the brethren and sisters of Elba,
had a love for the people and was glad to
visit here.
	Minutes of previous conference read and
accepted. Reports were given by Relief
Society presidents of various wards. Re-
ports showing many of the sisters were
energetic and faithful, while others were
dilatory; also that the sisters of Oakley had
a Relief Society house nearly completed.
She loved to labor with her sisters in this
work of love and grandeur.
	Counselor Ann Wilson advised the
mothers to teach their children the com-
mandments of God
	President William T. Jack spoke on the
influence of mothers in the home and with
her family, and the necessity of her attend-
ing to spiritual duties, so she will be fully
prepared for duties and responsibilities of
the home. Sisters should use their in-
fluence for good, both at home and abroad.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. The
choir sang “Prayer is the soul’s sincere
desire.” Prayer by Bishop Thomas Taylor.
Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
the choir singing “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Prayer by Brother William F.
Brim. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	President John L. Smith spoke on the
duty of teachers, we should go with the
Spirit of God and teach the principles of the
Gospel.
	Sister Rosabell A. Brim exhorted all to
improve every opportunity to learn the
principles of the Gospel.
	President William T. Harper said if we

[Column 2]
learn to do the will of the Lord it will lead
us to do good and be brave in the work.
We should set a good example before our
children and those around us. We can not
do too much good to lead mankind aright
and teach them aright and teach them the
Gospel.
	Sister King said it is for mothers to lay a
good foundation in their children, and in-
stil into their minds that which is right.
	President Louisa Haight spoke regarding
each society celebrating the 17th of March,
and each member giving ten cents and the
same be forwarded to the Central Board,
then we may have some of the presiding
sisters visit us. Spoke of having aids to
the Stake presidency. As aids Sister King,
of Almo, and Sister Cynthia Ward, of Elba,
were chosen and unanimously sustained.
	General and Stake authorities were pre-
sented and sustained by the conference.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Congregation sang “The Spirit of God.”
Benediction was pronounced by Bishop
Thomas King.
		LUCYNTHIA ROBBINS, Sec.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Bear Lake Stake, held in St. Charles,
July 1, 1900.
	Our officers meeting was held in the
school house, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Julia P. Lindsay called the meet-
ing to order. Of the Stake officers present
there were Counselor L. M. Hart, Mary
Bagley, and Amelia Hoge, Stake aid.
	Hymn. Prayer by Bishop Kutch. Hymn.
Roll called, eleven Officers of the several
branches present. Minutes of the previous
conference lead and approved.
	The following branches of the society
were reported: St. Charles, president First
ward; Fish Haven, president Second, ward;
Garden City, Ovid, North Liberty, Bloom-
ington, Liberty, Bennington, Montpelier
and Wardboro.
	President Lindsay congratulated the
presidents on the success each branch was
making. Desired to impress upon the sisters
the necessity of taking proper care of their
grain. This mission is no less important
now than when given to us by President
Young many years ago.
	Remarks were made by President James
H. Hart, Counselor L. M. Hart and Sister
Amelia Hoge. Subjects of importance were
touched upon by the speakers. Members
of the Relief Society were encouraged to
continue in the noble work. The teachers
should be regular in their visits that the
sisters may be strengthened and encouraged
to labor in the accomplishment of the noble
purpose for which the Relief Society was
organized.
	Several questions were asked which were
answered by Stake officers to the satisfac-
tion of the inquirers.
	After singing, benediction was offered by
Elder Quinton.
	Afternoon session of conference, was held
in the meeting house, commencing at 2 p.
m., meeting called to order by President
Lindsay. Singing by the choir. Prayer
offered by Bishop Philemon Lindsay. Sing-
ing, “O, my Father.” Sacrament admin-
istered. While the bread and water was
being partaken of, the choir sang “Ye chil-
dren of our God.”
	President Lindsay said she had much
pleasure in meeting in conference, had
never yet performed a duty without receiv-

[Column 3]
ing blessings. Spoke at some length on
the great blessings we enjoy in this goodly
land, and of the promises made he sisters
by the Prophet Joseph, if they would bs
faithful. It is no light matter to neglect
our meetings after having our names en-
rolled, for we then covenant to uphold that
organization. We should economize our
time, that we may devote a portion of it to
spiritual culture..
	Counselor Mary Bagley expressed her
gratitude for being permitted to live in this
important day. Testified of the goodness
of God unto her, of being healed by His
power and of the many blessings received
through being a member of the Relief
Society.
	Elder Alfred Osmond esteemed it a great
honor to address the sisters on this occasion.
It requires constant effort for us to perform
the duties required of us. Much has
been accomplished through the Gospel; had
it not been for this, probably many of those
intelligent men of olden times, such as Paul
and others, would never have been known.
Spoke at some length on the advancement
woman is making, she has been and is to-
day by many looked upon as inferior to
man. Woman can accomplish a great
amount of good in spheres where man can
do but little, she has a mission here on earth
which no one else can fill.
	President James H. Hart said those who
commenced this great work in which we
are engaged had a hard road to travel.
Spoke of the necessity of our striving to
overcome our evil passions and subjecting
ourselves to the will of God.
	President N. E. Pregmire, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., spoke a short time. Felt proud
of the Gospel, more so than of anything
else. There is a great responsibility resting
upon the mothers, greater than many
realize.
	President Lindsay made a few closing re-
marks, the choir sang “Thy God
Reigneth” and benediction was pronounced
by Elder John Bagley.
		NANCY H ALLRED, Stake Sec. 
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society of the St. Joseph Stake was held at
Pima, Arizona, June 22, 1900, commencing
at 10 a. m., President Elizabeth Layton
presiding. After singing by the congre-
gation and prayer by Bishop James Cluff,
of Central, the officers’ roll was called,
showing an attendance of seventeen.
Minutes of the conference held December
17, 1899, read and approved.
	President Layton made opening remarks
in which she expressed her appreciation of
the attendance of brethren and sisters; urged
the presidents to see to it that their secre-
taries were alive to their duty, and por-
trayed the importance of each report being
correct.
	Verbal reports were heard from the Lay-
ton and Thatcher branches, showing that
the members were alive to their duties,
were storing grain and sending missionaries
monthly to the Y. L. and Primary Associa- 
tions.
	Stake Aid Elizabeth Moody felt that we
were greatly blessed by having our grain
and fruit farms matured. Spoke to the sis-
ters about drying and canning fruit and
making it secure from moth that it might
be kept for a time of scarcity. The prophets
have declared that famine would come and
their words will not fail. If we live pure,


