		THE NEW CENTURY.

    Whatever may be the fate of the world a
century later one cannot help feeling and
realizing that the United States, the Repub-
lic of America is marching onward to a
high destiny. American women have
brought about great changes in the last fifty
years—the advance towards a higher civil-
zation, a purer and better government is
largely due to the women reformers and
educators, not only here, but in other
countries.
    The rapid strides that are being made in
the arts and sciences are not altogether
man’s achievements, woman; too,  has
striven courageously in these directions and 
against popular prejudice, making it so
much the more difficult to attain a degree o[-]
excellence equal with man.
    Development goes forward and ideas ac-
cumulate as the world grows older, and
men and women who seriously contemplate
life and action, and who engage in any pur-
suit or calling of a lofty nature, enter upon
it heart and soul and seem to be lifted by a
sort of mental and spiritual enthusiasm into
higher ranges of sublimity than were known
a hundred years ago.
    Woman’s future in business will be large-
ly co-operative, for assuredly the movement
is gaining ground steadily; but men and
women will unite generally in these lines,
and women can be trusted in many matters.
They consider business matters more
seriously. With them a steady occupation
is almost a religion, conscience enters
largely into their daily life. Already
women have covered a broad field in this
direction, in figures and mathematics many
of the sex are experts. As clerks, steno-
graphers and accountants they are more
generally reliable than men, for the simple
reason that they are less given to habits of
dissipation, smoking, drinking, and so forth,
and consequently less inclined to make errors.
    The conscientious delicacy and tact
natural to the feminine nature fits them par-
ticularly for some of the professions, especial-
ly the medical, and it cannot be gainsaid
that so far where opportunity has been given
women in the professions, they have shown
themselves, in almost every instance, on
record, equal to the occasion, however per-
plexing or difficult, or even embarassing
the situation might be.
    That we are now on the threshold of

[Column 2]
greater changes than have ever taken place
in the world’s history, one must believe
who watches the trend of events, and as-
suredly these wonderful changes are for the
uplifting and betterment of mankind and
all humanity. The spiritual vision is clear-
er, greater light and knowledge has come
through research and the development of
higher intelligence, a nd we are approaching
a sublime crisis in the dawning of the new
century.
    That the future business of the world
will be conducted by men and women in
co-operative movements and institutions,
and that thus greater progress will be made
industrially, there can be little doubt, be-
cause both are equally interested in the suc-
cess of enterprises and the strong elements of
man’s nature can be modified by intuition
and the painstaking and persistency of the
feminine in woman. There will be greater
improvement along all lines of business and
trades when women not only give advice
and lend their influence, but when they
actually manipulate side by side the modus
operandi of the great schemes now almost
entirely in the hands of men.
    Domestic service, hygiene and sanitation
will become so perfect in household matters
that the drudgery of cooking will no longer
be a terror to the young bride, her own
knowledge of the science of life and of living
will be her safeguard, and the young mother
will never know (by experience) the bitter
trials of the mothers of the psst centuries,
for knowledge is power and the night of
ignorance is fast passing, and the morning
of science is dawning and the next gener-
ation will bask in its light, and it may be 
that man will so order his life that he may
live to the age of a tree, as the scripture
foretells.


