A WONDERFUL MANIFESTATION.
	The history of the terrible disaster that
overtook Galveston, Texas, a while ago,
would be incomplete without a brief note of
the experience of some “Mormon” Elders
who labored as missionaries in that city at
the time of the flood which brought death
and destruction to so many souls. Accord-
ing to a letter received at the News office,
there were four Elders in the city, viz:
Peter Norton, of Pima, Ariz.; Horace L.
Johnson, of Thatcher, Ariz.; Samuel Shaw,
of North Ogden, Utah, and Heber N.
Folkman, of Plain City, Utah, and they all
were preserved as by a miracle, while
thousands fell on the right hand and thou-
sands more on the left.
	These Elders had then been laboring in
Galveston for the past three mouths and a
half. It seems, however, that their testi-
mony had been rejected and they were about
to leave when the flood came.
	On the fatal night they were stopping
with a family named Daniels. As the
water rose and reached the house, these
good people fled panic stricken to higher
ground, leaving the Elders alone in the
house. These went upstairs and commended
themselves to the care of divine Providence.
When the morning broke and the desola-
tion wrought stood forth in all its awe-
inspiring details it was found that the house
in which the Elders were, was the only one
in the entire neighborhood that had escaped
damage.
	It seems these missionaries were during
the entire night of horror unconscious of the
extent of the visitation. Elder Norton in
his letter to the News says part of the night
they slept, though the water was surging
and the wind was raging all around them.
When in the morning they went out to see
what damage had been done, they were
astonished to learn the extent of the disaster.
They saw corpses everywhere. Men,
women and children had met death either
by drowning or under the falling houses.
There was no difference now between rich
and poor, white and black. Death had
placed them all on about the same level.
	The miraculous preservation of the house
in which the “Mormon” Elders had been
given shelter that night must have been a
powerful testimony to some of the people
who had rejected their message. And there
are many such testimonies both in the his-
tory of the Latter-day Saints’ mission, and
in the experience of Church members. If
they were written they would form a volume
of pecular interest. To the eye of faith
they would demonstrate that God is the
same today as he was in the time of Moses
and the first Apostles.
	The memory of their experience will
probably never entirely fade away from the
minds of those Elders; it should be to them
an ever abiding testimony, and a subject of
thanksgiving;—Deseret News.


