[Column 1]
MARVELOUS ADVANCEMENT.
	Assuredly the world is entering upon an
era of great importance in its history in the
opening of the new century, and if figures
are significant the closing of another
thousand years must cut some sort of
figure.
	Men talk of looking backward and re-
counting the advance made in all directions
during this century, but what of the nine
centuries since the year ten hundred?
What condition was the world in then? How
far had civilization progressed? What did
the Eastern hemisphere know of the West-
ern? Only tradition and very little of that.
	Since that time to consider the vastness
of the work of the world makes ones head
swim. The discovering of a continent and
of islands almost innumerable, large and
small. The discoveries not only of earth
but the heavenly bodies.
	To comprehend in part this subject one
must take in the universe, the sun, moon
and stars and some of the laws by which
they are controlled, and the order in which
they move, and their relative position to
each other and to the planet we inhabit.
The knowledge of elemental forces existing
that were unknown to men have been
brought to light by science and its applied
instrumentalities. Many things can now
be measured and weighed that were once
considered wholly exempt or outside of any
control.
	In fact, science seems to have transformed
the universe and instead of unknown space,
that to us was lost, empty or void, there is
ever the rush and bustle of activity, or an
eternal stream of life and power and action
which penetrates the realms of space and
the entire world. And we call all this pro-
gress and man’s invention and applied
science to the forces already existing, but of
which man had no practical knowledge
heretofore.
	In many, perhaps most respects, the
greatest strides in higher civilization have
been made in this Nineteenth century. In
the fine arts, literature, music and painting,
undoubtedly, unless one goes back to
ancient Greece, of which we have very little
except tradition.
	To be sure, we speak of the beginning of
the finer culture in the Elizabethan period,
but it is the boast of the age in which we
live, and an accepted fact, that the greatest
men and most profound thinkers and largest
culture and attainments have been of this

[Column 2]
latest century. The fact remains, however,
without any fear of contradiction, that
Shakespeare is without a peer in this or any
other age, and, therefore, he must be an
exception.
	No doubt there are those who would
differ with the writer, but nevertheless this
has been a century of learning, of refinement
and culture. Great things have been
undertaken, and many of them accomplished
and the world looks on and wonders at the
advancement in all the lines of thought and
phases of life.
	What may be expected in the twentieth
century from the indications of the present
lookout, who can or dare determine? Only
a prophet or seer dare venture a prediction.
	The changes that have taken place in
atmospheric conditions prove that not only
men’s environments are subject to the
changes that occur through discoveries and
inventions, but that there are many differ-
ences from year to year which man is
powerless to control.
	Those who are permitted to live far into
the twentieth century are likely to see and
learn still more marvelous things than
have been made known in the past.

	An attempt has been made to determine
the opinions of ten of the most eminent
scholars now living concerning the very
best books of the century or those that
have most influenced thought and activities.
	The men selected are James Bryce,
Harry Van Dyke, Arthur T. Hadley, T.
W. Higginson, Edward E. Hale, George
A. Gordon, A. M. Fairbairn, C. Stanley Hall.
	Of these men five are heads of colleges,
and all are men of broad views, and
superior knowledge of the world in its
widest sense.
	The books most mentioned are Tenny-
son’s incomparable In Memoriam, Words-
worth’s “Lyrical Ballads,” Goethe’s
“Faust,” Scotts “Waverley,” Victor Hugo’s
“Les Miserables,” Harriet Beecher Stowe’s
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” Ruskin’s “Modern
Painters,” Hegel’s “Logic,” Lyell’s
“Geology,” Comte’s “Positive Philosophy.”
	These seem more often mentioned except
one which is mentioned by nine out of the
Ten, Darwin’s “Origin of Species.”
	Other books mentioned are George
Elliot’s “Middlemarch,” Froebel’s “Edu-
cation of Man,” Napoleon’s “Civil Code,”
Spencer’s “Principles of Psychology,”
Renan’s “Life of Jesus,” De Tocqueville’s 
“Democracy of America,” Carlyle’s “Sartor
Resartus,” Grove’s “Correlation of the Phy-
sical Forces,” Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Leuter”
and others.
	The Latter-day Saints one and all, per-
haps, or if ten of the most eminent men in
the Church were selected to give an
opinion of this kind, would probably agree
that the book which had been most bene-
ficial in awakening thought and activities
in this century would be the “Book of
Mormon,” which was not exactly written
in this cenutry, but brought forth and
translated. Then the “Book of Doctrine and
Covenants” and “Pearl of Great Price.”
	Of others we should naturally think
“The Life of Joseph Smith,” “The Voice of
Warning,” “Key to Theology,” “Spencer’s
Letters” and the poems of Eliza R. Snow
and John Lyon.
	The writer also appreciates Tullidge’s
“Life of Brigham Young,” his “Life
of Joseph Smith” and his “Women of
Morrnondom,” “The Articles of Faith” and

[Column 3]
Orson Pratt’s “Key to the Universe,” the
last mentioned would probably be con-
sidered, by men outside the Church, the
greatest book by a Mormon author.
	The writer agrees with the judges ap-
pointed to give opinions upon the books of
the century, on Tennyson’s “In Memoriam”
as the greatest poetical production, and
would differ in reference to George Elliot’s
“Middlemarch” substituting as her best 
novel “Romola.” So far as the principle
of Evolution in Darwin’s work we would
not differ so widely, but in regard to his
origin of species, we are positive his theory
is incorreet. However, the world is moving
onward, and the Lord is teaching and
giving light and knowledge to mankind,
and Tennyson’s words are coming to pass-
‘Not in vain the distance beacons, forward, forward 
	let us range.
Let the great world spin forever down the ringing
	groves of change.”


