[Column 1]
CURRENT EVENTS.
	There has been rather a dearth of news
here of any great importance during the
month of August. What seemed to be
uppermost in the minds of the people was
the extreme heat that prevailed and the best
methods of keeping cool. The summer has
been the hottest experienced for many
years, especially in the East where large
numbers of deaths and prostration have
occurred daily, principally in New York and
Chicago.
	In a paper-given recently on current
events, the hope was expressed that the
“white flag of truce would soon float over
the nations of the world.” It is to be re-
gretted that the hope has not been realized,
for wars and rumors of wars still exist in
almost every part of the world, with the
prospect of still greater wars occurring
than we have yet had. The conditions
existing in China are the leading topic of
the day. It was first thought the trouble
originated with a lawless element called the
Boxers, but Minister Conger declares the
blame rests with the Imperial government.
Other opinions are that the responsibility
rests with the European governments, on
account of the jealousies existing between
them, and their lack of foresight and prud-
ence in meeting the crisis. But wherever
the blame lay, it was evident that the
foreigners at the legations were in great

[Column 2]
danger of being massacred, and that it was
of the utmost importance that the allied
forces should hasten to their rescue. After
a long and difficult march, and with numer-
ous victorious engagements with the enemy,
they entered the city of Pekin. They found
the foreigners all safe, but almost starved,
as they had been living on small rations for
some time and had only enough provisions
to last three days. After a siege of fifty-six
days of danger and privation we can imagine
their rejoicing over their deliverance. What
the future policy of the powers will be in
dealing with China is yet to be determined.
	In South Africa the Boer situation con-
tinues to be a vexed question. Kruger is
still defiant and declares that the war will
last a long time yet. The war proper is at
an end, but indiscriminate fighting is still
going on, the Boers keeping up a sort of
guerilla warfare, of which the English are
becoming very tired. There can be no
doubt but that England will be victorious,
in the end, but it will be after a long siege
with much harassment and loss of life.
	The situation in the Philippine Islands is
very similar to that in South Africa. The
Filippinos are still fighting for their in-
dependence. It is said their hatred for the
Americans is more bitter than it was for the
Spaniards. Their army is still well organ-
zed and the prospects are that fighting will
be continued in the Islands for some time to
come.
	The assassination of King Humbert of
Italy by an anarchist, is one of the sad
events of the month. His son, Victor
Emanuel III., in order to avoid riots and
disorder, immediately ascended the throne.
He is said to be small in stature, but of
strong character and it is thought will be-
come popular with his people. Attempts
to assassinate other rulers and heads of
governments have been made, among whom
was President McKinley.
	The Paris Exposition still continues to 
draw large crowds, as many as half a mil-
lion were reported to have been in attend-
ance in one day. There seems to be a
difference of opinion in regard to the success
of the Exposition. Some say it far sur-
passes the World’s Columbian Exposition
in Chicago in 1893, others say it is not so
good. It certainly should be better, as it
has seven years the advantage in the way of
advancement. Financially the Paris Expo-
sition is not a success. It has been officially
announced that it will close on November 5.
	The first trial in the celebrated Goebel
murder case has at last come to an end, and
Caleb Powers, who has been tried for com-
plicity in the murder, has been convicted
and sentenced to imprisonment for life. It
is to be hoped that all who took part in the
assassination of Governor Goebel will meet
the same punishment.
	Several notable deaths occurred during
the month, among which are the Duke of
Saxe-Colberg and Gotha, Admiral in the
British navy, and son of Queen Victoria;
Baron Charles Russell, Lord Chief Justice of
England; Collin B. Huntington, President
of the Southern Pacific R. R., and Senator
Ingals.


The campaign for the election of a presi-
dent of the United States, and also local
officers, has just commenced, and promises
to be a lively and interesting one. One
pleasing feature of the campaign in Utah
will be that a number of women will be
candidates for important offices. It is to be
hoped they will receive the support of every
voter in the State, especially of the women,
that our lady candidates may come off
victorious in the coming political struggle.
	Salt Lake City entertained a large num-
ber of strangers during the month of
August. The six biennial sessions of the
head camp Woodmen of the World, which
was held here, brought several hundred.
The great Eastern newspaper league repre-
sentatives also visited us, and many othei
tourists. The visitors were unanimous in
sounding the praises of our beautiful city
and its hospitality.
	The clubs of the city are resuming their
sessions and are taking up their winter
work, the work being along the lines of the
advancement of woman, and the improve-
ment of mankind, which is the motto of
our own Press Club.
