[Column 1]
DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	It is with great pleasure that I greet the
readers of the EXPONENT here in this par-
ticular corner which shall be ours to discuss
some of the problems which interest women
in their homes. We may exchange
recipes and methods, and, too, we shall
consider many of those home topics which
just now are so popular and which engage
so much attention from the scientific and
economic world.
	But, bear with me, dear sister, we shall
not enter too deeply into the grave question
of economics, at least, not at present; but
we shall discuss some practical phases of
home life and home uplifting.
	I am very happy to present to you, as the
first paper in this Dept., one written by the
brilliant President of the N. H. E. A., who
herself is deeply interested in our Western
problems, while she as yet has never been
West of the Mississippi.

[Column 2]
	I commend your earnest attention to the
paper, and bid you good day for a season.
DOMESTIC SERVICE PROBLEM.
	We no longer try to dodge this question
which is perplexing all housekeepers at the
present time, for we would still have the
fact staring us in the face to the consterna- 
tion of all who desire to live in homes, that
there is certainly a movement going on
which some one has designated as “The
passing of the servant girl.” We have all
read columns of stuff on this subject, (some
of it funny and more of it almost tragic), in
our eager and determined desire to discover
a cure for this disease which has gathered
us all in its clutches like an epidemic.
Back of all this seething unrest in the house-
hold world may the cause not be found in
three stupendous facts? Is not one of them
due to the recently opened door in the busi-
ness world which has not only allowed all
women to enter, but has made the path so
easy that many have forced their way in, to
the sacrifice of their own abilities?
	Let us dwell for a moment upon this
peculiar phase of the present situation—the
woman in business and in consequence the
recognized depletion in the ranks of house-
keepers as well as household wage earners.
First, however, let us be perfectly clear on
this subject and not confound the women
who have forced themselves into the busi-
ness world needlessly and unfittingly, with
the business woman who has learned to
make herself so invaluable in whatever
niche of affairs she has secured for herself
by ability and perseverance for which she is
now receiving all due recompense. There
is always a good market for skill and brains
and tact in every department of wage earn-
ing. Therefore, we have to do with the
women who have rushed into business pur-
suits and pre-empted their claims with an
avidity worthy of our Oklahoma settlers, 
and not the reliable, capable, level-headed,
earnest business women which this pro-
gressive nineteenth century has brought
forth.
	If we may believe the signs of the times
as depicted in recent magazine and news-
paper articles, we need hardly trouble our-
selves a great deal about this large army of
incompetents. One writer facetiously claims
a speedy return of the prodigal daughter in-
to the safe but neglected harbor of home
life, which show that in the economic re-
lations of the world of business there is no
room for sentiment. Just as soon as the
supply of efficiency equals the demand, the
incompetents in business pursuits will
be crowded out, and they will then be forced
naturally with regret, to learn the sad decree,
some one has put so tersely, that “women
who are eager for a career must remember
that ignorance and inefficiency in the home
are not good recommendations for the busi-
ness life for which they long.” Nearly all
of the holes in commercial life are square and
we must admit that the average woman is
by education, heritage and environment so
well rounded that she has a natural fitness for
the many-sided phases of home life. Never-
theless we must emphasize the statement, at
the risk of repetition, that the average
woman seeking for a place in the world of
commerce must not be confounded with the
business woman, who perhaps has a family to
support and at least a pardonable desire for a
home to have and to hold. When our
young women show that degree of self-
reliance and capability which this business


