[Column 1]
GRANITE STAKE.
The first conference of the Relief Society
of the Granite Stake of Zion was held at
the Mill Creek meeting house, August I,
1900, Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Meeting opened at ten o’clock a. m.
Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Prayer
by Counselor James R. Miller. Singing,
“The Spirit of God.”
On the stand were Counselors Mary P.
Young and Katharine H. Brockbank, Maria
B. Winder and Armeda S. Young, of the
Granite Stake Relief Society; also Counselor
James R. Miller and Stake Clerk Thomas
Alston and Assistant Superintendent Rich-
ard Horne, of the Sunday School.
All the presidents of wards were present
excepting Mountain Dell.
The secretary called the roll, showing
thirty-one ward officers present and four
Stake officers. The secretary read a brief
outline of the conference at Mill Creek,
where the new Stake of Granite was organ-
ized with the Relief Society and the other
organizations, January 28, 1900, also noted
the visiting tour of the president, Frank Y.
Taylor, to every ward in the new Stake, as
the Relief Society president and officers were
honored with the privilege of accompanying,
him with all the other officers in the Stake;
read the account of the number of Stake
officers’ meetings since the Stake was organ-
zed, five in number; the visits President
Emma Woodruff with her officers had made
in the different wards were at Taylorsville,
May 8, 1900; South Cottonwood, May 17;
Big Cottonwood, May 23; Mill Creek, June
12; East Mill Creek, June 13; Granger
June 15; Mountain Dell, July 15. The re-
port was accepted.
The statistical and financial report of the
last six months was read and approved.
Counselor Mary P. Young called on the
presidents to report their respective wards.
President Sarah B. Gibson reported
Sugar Ward; President Stevenson, Forest
Dale; President Sarah A. Turnbow,
Farmers Ward; President Elizabeth Hill,
Mill Creek; President Ann Eliza B. Neff,
East Mill Creek; President Emily W.
Stevenson, Big Cottonwood; President
Mary Rawlins, South Cottonwood; Presi-
dent Margaret Carruth, Murray Branch;
President Elizabeth Pixton, Taylorsville;
President Mary E. Porter, Granger; Presi-
dent Charlotte Nielson, Hunter.
Each of these sisters gave excellent re-
ports.
Counselor Mary P. Young: “We visited
Mountain Dell about two weeks ago. The
people are in a very scattered condition.
The president has sold her property and in-
tends to move away.”
Brother Hill, of Mill Creek, favored us
with the beautiful song, “The Holy City.”
Counselor James R. Miller said: “It gives
me pleasure to meet with the sisters of the
Relief Soeiety in their first conference. You
will improve from time to time. Next year
you will be better than this year, and so on.
I like the reports from the sisters, think
they have all been well reported. God
bless the sisters of Granite Stake and all
other Stakes.
Elder Richard Horne said: “I am pleased
and glad I came. You have given in good
reports. I have taken note and have, seen
many sick in my mind today and these sis-
ters going among them, I feel to say God
bless these good sisters, for they have laid
their hands on many a fevered brow to com-
fort and bless.” He spoke of the great

[Column 2]
blessings that were in store for the faithful
sisters, and said the will of the Lord will
teach us patience. Spoke of Noah’s day
when he was building the Ark, his patience,
perseverance and obedience. Then came
his reward and the perishing of those who
disobeyed and sinned. Related a dream
which a sister had who had been very in-
different in taking any part in the Relief
Society, but would help with money and
kind words. The Lord saw the good in
this woman and permitted her to have this
dream. She thought she was in heaven in
a large, pleasant room and felt quite satis-
fied and happy with the comfortable and
pleasant surroundings. Throngs of people
were passing to and fro. A very few passed
her and went through a doorway which
was opened slightly a short distance ahead
of her. She began to be anxious and de-
sirous-of seeing what was in the other room.
As the door opened she caught a glimpse
inside. It was so beautiful and glorious
s[-]e thought she would enter. As she
[---]ose and started that way a hand was laid
[--]on her shoulder and a voice said, “You
[--]nnot enter there. It requires a greater
work than you have done before you can
e[-]ter there. This left a great impression
w[-]th her and she took hold in the Relief
Society and all other good works with much
interest and earnestness.
Brother Holm: “I am happy, my broth-
ers and sisters, to live upon the earth and
belong to the Relief Society. We have
many in this conference who have sacrificed
pleasure and sat by the side of the sick. We
[-]ust realize that great responsibilities are
[-]eighing upon us, and we must do them if
we get in that room Brother Horne spoke
of. I rejoice to visit the sick and the poor.
The Lord blesses us because we take care of
the poor. The poor are given us to look
alter. To have the Spirit of the Lord in
our souls is better than all else. God loves
the pure in heart, the meek and the lowly.”
Siister Mary B. Hamilton was pleased to
welcome all present in behalf of the Mill
Creek Ward and extend an invitation for
them to partake of the lunch prepared in an
adjoining room.
Counselor Mary P. Young made a few
closing remarks and referred to our good
meeting and the many good instructions
that had been given. She moved that a
vote of thanks be extended to the singers
and the young brother who spent his time
in leading the singing, which was carried
unanimously.
Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p. m.
Benediction by Elder Thomas Alston.
(Continued.)


