A MORNING IN CAMP.
	This was a subject given me to speak
upon at a celebration given by the sons and
daughters of the pioneers of 1847 at
Pleasant Grove, Utah, on the 22nd of June,
1900. I made a few notes which I did not
use on the occasion, and as the object of
perpetuating the storey of the pioneers,
who sought out these vales in the desert, is
one that ought to receive some attention, I
felt to put in print what I had written, as
some thought might thus be awakened and
lead to recollections with others who had
similar experiences.
	A morning in camp is not very amusing,
and if at all pleasant must depend upon
circumstances, one morning will scarcely
suffice as an illustration.
	I must go back to my first morning in
camp in February, 1846, when we had
slept on the ground for the first time in our
lives, a number, thirty-one of us in
one tent. We had crossed the Mississippi
river the day before. When we woke on
the following morning the ground was
covered with snow, a beautiful picture to
look at—tents, wagons all beautiful with
the white covering, and some of us were
romantic enough to admire the scene not-
withstanding the cold and the many dis-
advantage of being out of doors in a snow 
storm, and could not help contrasting the
scene with pictures of Ancient Israel as they
journeyed hither and thither in the olden
times in far off Eastern lands with their
flocks and herds, pitching their tents here
and there, as we were doing.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow described one of
these mornings thus:
 
	“Lo a mighty host of Jacob,
		Tented on the Western shore,
	Of the noble Mississippi,
		Which they had been passing o’er,
	At the last day dawn of Winter,
		Bound with frost and wrapped in snow,
	Hark, the cry is Onward! Onward! 
		Camp of Israel rise and go, 

	All at once is life and motion,
		Trunks and beds and baggage fly,
	Oxen yoked and horses harnessed,
		Tents rolled up and passing by.
	Soon the carriage wheels are moving,
		Onward to a woodland dell
	Where at sunset all are quartered,
		Camp of Israel, all is well.”

	Some mornings our horses were lost or
cattle had strayed and we would be hindered
for hours, and lucky if not for days. Oc-
casionally we found pleasant spots to camp
in, though some were miserable—damp,
rough and always uncomfortable to make
beds down on the ground.
	Mornings we usually had time to get
some kind of a breakfast and put things in
order, but we had to fly around pretty
lively to do it, and quite frequently we had
heavy biscuits and many such annoyances—
kettles upsetting and putting out the fire
in the middle of the cooking. We didn’t
cook scientifically, but we did some things
by weight and measure, for fear the food
would not hold out on the journey. We
always had “starters” that gave the word,
“Take down the tents, put out the fires
and pack up the cooking utensils, don’t


