[Column 1]
ies, of the sayings of President Brigham
Young that the sisters should build their
own Relief Society halls and granaries.
Spoke of the building of the Fourteenth
Ward Relief Society Hall by the help of
the brethren and their own energy. It is
the duty of the young people to attend and
take hold of responsibilities. Our mission
is to encourage all in good works, attend
to family prayers, be punctual in opening
our meetings.
	President Sorensen was pleased with the
remarks made, urged the sisters to come on
time.
	Minutes read by the secretary. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Benediction by
Bishop Orson Magleby. 
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.,
President Sorenson presiding. Singing,
“Guide us, O Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Brother C. P. Christensen. Sing-
ing, “O ye mountains high.” Minutes of
afternoon session of last conference read.
	Other presidents present reported their
wards, gave favorable reports of their
labors. In intellectual meetings they
read from the history of Joseph Smith,
Doctrine and Covenants and other good
books. All the sisters feel to do their duty
and improve by instructions given.
	Sister Stevenson encouraged the sisters
to go on in good works. Said teachers are
the backbone of the society. We should be
careful in financial matters, be judicious
and happy with what little is ours. Spoke
of the noble spirits being born in this gener-
ation. We should know the mind
and will of God on marriage, and there
would not be so many divorces. Spoke of
the work for the dead. Teach our children
to pay tithing, cultivate and improve, there
is no stopping place.
	Stake President Seegmiller was pleased to
hear reports; was considering the great
results of the organization of the Relief
Society in these days, and of the great
work that will yet be done in the future.
Asked God to comfort all with His Holy
Spirit and that our daughters may be de-
sirous of accomplishing what they were
sent here for.
	Sister Daniels encouraged the sisters
to be charitable, our mission is to save souls
put in practice all the good we can.
	Minutes of meeting read, closing remarks
by President Sorensen, thanks to President
Seegmiller. Joseph S. Horne and all the
brethren and sisters who had attended the
meetings. We have had a feast of good
things.
	Singing, “How firm a foundation.” Con-
ference adjourned for three months. Bene-
diction by President Joseph S. Horne.
	The sisters also visited with us according
to program arranged. Many valuable in-
structions were given and many blessings
enjoyed, and all the sisters who had the
privilege of listening have felt the great out-
pouring of the Spirit of God in our meet-
ings. All are willing to come up more
fully to the duties required of them. The
sisters will observe the 17th of March more

[Column 2]
fully in the future; in all paying member-
ship fee. Encouraged the sisters to take
the EXPONENT, it is our paper.
			MARY SWINDLE, Sec.
	Monroe, June 8, 1900.


