A MOST EVENTFUL YEAR.
	The many remarkable events transpir
ing in the world at the present time cannot
fail to impress any one of a thoughtful
habit of mind with a deep feeling of awe
and solemnity, to say the least, and to a
religious nature the tendency must be to-
wards the cultivation of a higher spiritual
life; and to the Latter-day Saint it is like
the opening of a series of prophecies the
fulfilling of which we have been told from
year to year and from time to time.
	Only during the present year, the close
of the nineteenth century, pause and con-
sider how many telling events have taken
place, and in view of the dire consequences
of these occurrences think what disaster,
grief and fatal ravages have followed fam-
ine, desolation and death, carrying off
millions of human beings, while the careless
and indifferent still pursue the pleasures
and pastimes of the hour, heeding not the
judgments that are sweeping the earth
with devastating floods and fires and
plagues, and they see not neither do they


understand. Assuredly it would seem the
Lord has come out of His hiding place to
take vengeance on those who have been
disobedient unto His commandments and
have held Him in dishonor and scorn.
	These are the signs of the times that are
spoken of as ushering in the coming of the
Son of Man. Therefore, it behooves the
Latter day Saints who have been warned
and forewarned of these disturbances to
draw near to the Lord in humility and
faith, that they may claim the promise that
the destroying angel shall pass them by.
	The terrible catastrophe at Galveston
cannot fail to make men’s hearts sicken for
fear—a great city full of life and of wealth
swept away by the tempest in a few brief
hours, like a visitation of the wrath of the
Almighty. The bravest men and women 
naturally shrink from witnessing such
fearful suffering, and yet truly noble are
those, who, though tender and sympathetic,
ordinarily unable to endure the sight
of extreme distress, go to the rescue
of their fellow beings in times of their
direst need.
	The Red Cross Society, with the great,
magnanimous Clara Barton at their head,
lost no time in going to the scene of the
Galveston calamity. And though Miss
Barton succumbed to physical weakness
and had to be taken to her home, yet the
work she had planned will be executed by
her able assistants; and though it may be
utterly impossible to reach all cases of
sickness and destitution, yet it is good to
know the milk of human kindness flows
still in the breasts of many thousands of
men and women, who esteem it a sacred
duty to minister and succor those whom
misfortune has overtaken unawares,
and so fulfill the law of Christ, “Bear ye
one another’s burdens.”
	It is quite impossible to go into the de-
tails of the outrages, atrocities and crimes
perpetrated by fiends in human form dur-
ing the last few months in foreign lands.
One cannot help echoing the words of the
poet, Cowper—
“My soul is sick with every day’s report  
Of wrong and outrage with which earth is filled.”


