[Column 1]
break the dishes, and get ready quick, jump
in the wagon and take care you are not left
behind.”
	Some people seemed to be ready without
an effort. Altogether we were a happy
crowd; boys and men whistling while they
harnessed the horses or yoked the cattle;
women with babies were particularly well
cared for. President Young and Heber C.
Kimball, the life of the camp, always up
stirring about early while some of the boys
were snoozing. I remember Brother Brigham
Young round the camp at Sugar Creek with
a bucket full of composition tea giving us a
cup of it because we were chilly and cold, we
had just come from our warm fires out into
the cold prairie, facing storms, wind, snow
and sleet; it will hardly bear talking about
even at this late date.
	Sometimes we found in the morning that
we had camped in a spot where there were
wild flowers and clear water, and birds
singing, but this was a rare exception,
generally we were very hungry and before
we could finish our breakfast we were
ordered to pack up and be off. Sunday
mornings were better because we rested,
and about eleven o’clock the camp would
be called together for instructions.
	I assure you I looked over my diary written
when coming out of Nauvoo to see what I did
say about the mornings. Sometimes the
horses were lost and then we were in
great trouble, generally it was muddy,
the water was poor, and once old Bill was
dead and we all mourned because he had
been faithful and was good and strong.
	All of us who have had such wonderful
experiences make our stories too long, there’s
so much to tell; suffice it to say we came,
we conquered every obstacle. Some died
on the way and some were born on the
journey, in fact quite often the exciting
topic of the morning was a new baby. The 
tents blew over in the night quite frequent-
ly and then we had to crowd in wherever
we could, which didn’t help to make us
cheerful in the morning. Early in the
journey before we knew how to arrange and
dispose our kitchen apparatus, the sisters
would complain in the morning that the tin
cans had been poking them in the ribs all
night.
	There was not much fun in the morning,
all was hurry and bustle and the camp cry
was always be off, and we were generally
on our way before we knew it, for there
was no waiting, you jumped on or you got
left, and we girls were afraid to be left, for
there were Indians in those days as well as
buffaloes and wild cats, and we had to be
carried over the rivers in some man’s arms,
you know, because we were not experts at
swimming, and we couldn’t fly, tho’ we 
often wanted to.
	We had prayers in the mornings, in fact
am sure it was faith in God we depended
upon to bring us safely along. It was a
wonderful journey and now after more than
fifty years, looking back upon it, the wonder
is how we had the courage, the persever-
ance, the endurance to accomplish it; the
mornings were not the most agreeable, there
were too many things to do and to think of
though one sister I remember used to say
almost invariably, “I am glad we have a
clean camping place every day, that is a
luxury,” and one that has camped three or
four days or a week in one place would
appreciate that saying most certainly.
	Looking backward I can recall a few
bright mornings when something unusual
broke the monotony, or the scenery was

[Column 2]
more picturesque, or we had seen a beauti-
ful deer, perhaps two or three or half a
dozen such beauties, so graceful in their
movements. I recall a morning when the
boys, who had been out for the cattle found
wild honey and came into camp for buckets
to put it in; this was a great treat. Some-
how we always felt safe; there was order in
the camp, men stood guard at night and we
slept soundly in the open air. Those are
wonderful days to look back upon; how
marvelously we were guided to this land.
	One of the best things to have on such a
journey is cheerfulness under all circum-
stances. In our family we had a Welsh
sister whom everybody called Grandma,
and I have often said since, she kept us
alive with her jokes and witticisms and her
Welsh songs and prayers, for she always
prayed in Welsh and out loud. Whenever
she was offended she would break out in
her Welsh tongue, and invariably put every,
one in a good humor. She drove a little
light wagon aud one horse and took care of
the baby and her own things, and made tea
in her rare old china teapot every morning,
and if we could coax her to give us a cup
of her tea we considered it a favor. Funny
as she was we were all sort of afraid of her,
she rather kept the young folks in order
when she was around, even if it was in the
morning.
	If I should ever have a pioneer subject
again, I trust it will be the camp at eve-
ning, for of that there is something to tell.
