BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.
	Mary D. Israelsen was born in Kasfjor-
den, Nordland, Norway, August 9, 1836.
Her parents being poor, she early learned
to labor. She was always noted for her
obedience and industry. Her parents were
religiously inclined and were members of
the Lutheran Church. She was, therefore,
from early childhood a member of that
church.
	On October 25, 1855, she was married to
Telleo J. Israelsen, of the same place. In
1861 she embraced the Gospel, her husband
having joined the Church some time before
She was the only member of her father’s
family that ever accepted the Gospel and
joined the Church. Remarkable enough,
her husband was, also, the only member
of his father’s famiiy that has ever joined
the Church.
	In 1864, together with her husband and
children, she emigrated to Utah and settled
in Hyrum, Cache County, where she ever
afterwards resided. In the early 80’s both
her husband and oldest son were on foreign
missions at the same time. This son has
since performed another mission in his
native country, Another son just returned


from Norway in July, where he had been
laboring as a missionary.
	Her husband died December 11, 1897.
She departed this life September 2, 1900.
She was the mother of twelve children, five
sons and seven daughters. Of these three
sons and five daughters survive her. She
had thirty-eight grandchildren, twenty-
nine of whom still live. One of these is
on a foreign mission at present. She also
had one great grandchild at the time of her
death
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Our beloved sister, Mary D. Israelsen, has been
a faithful worker in the Relief Society of Hyrum
for nineteen years.
	Whereas, God, in His infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call from this sphere of action  our beloved
sister and colaborer in the Relief Society,
	Resolved, That we mourn in her death a faith-
ful worker, a wise and loving mother and a true
Latter-day Saint.
	That we esteem her exemplary life and her
faithful labors among the needy, worthy of the
emulation of every member of our society.
	That we mourn and sympathize with the chil-
dren, grandchildren, relatives and friends, and
realize that our Father doeth all things for the
best and that we must be submissive to His will.
				LUCY WILSON,
							President.
			ELIZABETH CRITCHLOW,
			FINETTE WILLIAMS,
							Counselors.
	GEORGINE RALPH, Secretary.


