[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We had the pleasure of attending the
annual meeting of the Primary Association
in the Tenth ward, Thursday, May 24. It
was twenty-one years since the organization
was effected and was a sort of gala day for
the children. The meeting house was
prettily decorated with flowers of great
variety, and the president, Sister Howarth,
looked as happy as the little ones. She had
prepared a short program in which the chil-
dren did themselves and their teachers great
credit, both in singing and reciting. Of the
Salt Lake Stake Primary officers there were
present Superintendent Camilla Cobb and
Assistant Mary L. Morris, also President
Elizabeth Paul, of the Tenth ward Relief
Society. Brief remarks were made by the
sisters and by Brother Keddington, coun-
selor to the Bishop. The little folks spent
the afternoon at Liberty Park to celebrate
their anniversary. This is one of the Primary
Associations we had the privilege and honor
of organizing, in May 1879. Sister Jennie
McLean was its first president, and was
most faithful and energetic in this and in
all her duties. Sister Howarth seems ad-
mirably adapted to work with the little
ones, and we certainly wish her earnest
endeavors may prove successful in training
some of the children of Zion.
	Mrs. A. W. Carlson gave a Kensington at
her very pretty home, on Friday, June 29,
or one might with all propriety call it a
garden party, for the heat was so intense
that most of the guests preferred to sit out
on the lawn and in the shade of the beauti-
ful trees and the hedge of pretty soft
shrubbery. The view from Mrs. Carlson’s
home is particularly fine, magnificent at
sunset. It was an enjoyable afternoon
notwithstanding the heat. Mrs. Carlson
has a happy faculty of entertaining her
guests, and is a graceful and charming
hostess. There were perhaps forty ladies in
the party, many of them old friends who
had not met each other for years, and re-
newing old acquaintances in this pleasant
fashion makes one feel doubly indebted to
the hostess. Surely gatherings of this sort
without parade or ostentation are pleasant
places in one’s memory afterwards, a change
from the humdrum of daily toil; and really
one should occasionally take these breath-
ing spells on life’s highway, and value the
opportunity of a few hours interchange in
social converse. There were delicious
refreshments served in a rare hospitable
way, five o’clock tea with all the dainties

[Column 2]
one could imagine as well, quite unlike the
English pretty custom of serving tea and
wafers. Mrs. Carlson may certainly con-
gratulate herself upon the success of her
Kensington, tho’ as for sewing, etc. the
ladies were usually occupied in using fans
instead of needles.
	Saturday, July 16, at 3 p. m., the Society
D. R. met at the residence of the writer to
celebrate two important days, “Old Glory”
and the ’’Battle of Bunker Hill.” The
parlors were decorated in blue, and buff and
the stars and stripes were conspicuous here
and there. The portico was festooned with
bunting, while roses in great variety, car-
nations, California poppies, pansies and
larkspur gave the rooms a gala day appear-
ance. Vice-Regent Maria Y. Dougall
presided. Meeting opened with prayer by
Mrs. M. W. Wilcox. The ladies sang
America, Mrs Willard Cannon leading, Miss
Vera Cannon accompanist. Roll call was
responded to by patriotic sentiments.
Several letters were read from absent mem-
bers, and informally recollections of the
original occasion being observed were made
the theme of the speakers. Mrs. Willard
Cannon sang with spirit and thrilling
melody, “The Star Spangled Banner,” and
Mrs. Annie W. Cannon read most feelingly,
“The Flag Goes By.” After the
exercises ice cream, cake and lemonade
were partaken of, and as the guests were
saying their good byes, they carried away
handsfull of roses. May the fragrance of
that day be as fresh and sweet in their re-
membrance as the roses were on that bright,
sunny day in beautiful June.
	On Tuesday, June 25, Mr. and Mrs.
Morris B. Young gave a dinner party and
evening entertainment at their hospitable
home in Forest Dale. Notwithstanding
the heat was intense a sumptuous dinner
was served at 3 o’clock in the afternoon.
The dining room was fragrant with the
sweet flowers and the table decorations
were very pretty. The guests of honor
were Mrs. Hannah Snow Lewis and Mr.
and Mrs. Oliver Snow, of Ohio, cousins of
President Lorenzo Snow and of the hostess,
Mrs. Young, his daughter. Other guests
were: Mrs. Z. D. H. Young, Mrs. M. I.
Horne, Mrs. Margaret P. Young, Mrs.
Emma Woodruff, Mrs. Alice and Mrs.
Regina Pond and the writer. The conver-
sation was very highly flavored with rem-
iniscences of early days in the valley, in
which Sister Eliza R. Snow and the vener-
able President Lorenzo Snow had taken
part. Later on towards evening quite a
party arrived and there was music and
singing, and the porches and shade of the
trees was filled with the younger people.
President F. Y. Taylor and wife, of Granite
Stake, Bishop Millen C. Atwood and wife,
of Sugar Ward; Drs. Leslie W. and M. O.
Snow; Elder Le Roi C. Snow and Miss
Ford and many others of the Snow family.
Ice cream, cake and lemonade were served
to all the large number of guests.
	On Friday afternoon, June 15, quite a
large party of ladies assembled by invitation
of Mrs. C. R. Howe, at her residence in this
city, in honor of the 77th birthday anniver-
sary of her mother-in-law, Sister Julia C.
Howe, who is one of the best known
women in the city, and is universally be-
loved. She has been connected with chari-
table and philanthropic work ever since
coming among our people, and is a woman
of exceptional attainments in many respects,

[Column 3]
and has had large opportunities in early
life, and is particularly well acquainted with 
the Bible, which of itself is a rare acquisition.
Sister Howe has not only been associated
with the work of the Relief Society, but
also with the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Primary Association, and in all the posi-
tions she has been called to fill she has been 
efficient and untiring in her efforts, and she
has the adaptability necessary to success in
managing young people: She has a fine
personality and is remarkably well preserved
for her age, looking much younger than
her years. There were present at the party
Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Bathsheba W.
Smith, Margaret Y. Taylor, Matilda M.
Barratt, Elizabeth Webb, Elizabeth J.
Stevenson, Susan Smith, Lydia Ann, Han-
nah and Susan Wells, and Maria W. Wil-
cox, whose birthday occurs on the same
day, though she is a few years younger.
There were many other sisters present, in
all thirty or more, and the afternoon was
very happily spent in congratulations and
general social conversation and birthday
greetings. The rooms were very prettily
decorated, there were roses, carnations and
sweet peas in abundance. Delicious refresh-
ments were served in dainty fashion, the
hostess, young Mrs. Howe, knowing ex-
actly how to entertain her guests, which is
a happy faculty. May Sister Howe have 
many more such delightful birthdays, tho’ 
we are aware that every year takes from us
one or more who have been accustomed to
meet with us at such reunions.


