	MRS. DUSENBURRY’S PAPER.

	The time has arrived when co-operation
is fast taking the place of in[-]ividual labor,
that is, labor where one man or woman
makes an effort to carry on successfully a
number of occupations alone. For many
years the male portion of our population
have seen the necessity of specializing their
part of the labor; but the mother is still
toiling and wondering why she cannot be a
success at child raising, cooking, washing,
ironing, sewing, sweeping, dusting, calling
and entertaining. She little realizes that
any one of these occupations would furnish
sufficient employment if done in a profes-
sional way, by one person. She does not
stop to think that the world means many
people and she is wearing her life out for


but the few who are especially near and dear
to her. She endeavors for a few moments
each day to teach her child something of
the life of Christ, never realizing that the
little one can have no conception of the
Savior unless he has present living exam- 
ples upon which to buil[-] his ideals. She
tells him Christ spent His life toiling for
His fellowmen. She relates to him stories
of the never-tiring labor of Jesus for the
rich and poor alike. She pictures to the
little mind the beauties of such a life, yet
day by day, year by year, passes and she
toils on; for the few who surround her
hearthstone. It is said, “to work for one’s
self is the lowest kind of labor. To work
for one’s family is but one step better.”
Then there is but one kind of service that
will answer the present needs of the human
family and that is service for all the world.
How are the mothers and women to assist
in this struggle for a broader field of action
if they are not awakened to the necessity of
co-operation ?
	The world today is much exercised over
the child-study question, but comparatively
little is written or said about mother-study.
Fewer punishments and less scoldings
would take place if we stopped to think
that the fault for which we are punishing is
only a reflection of that same trait in our-
selves.
	If the parent would begin with reforma-
tion of self, the desire for self-improvement
would grow greater, while the unnatural
warping of child character would grow less.
What we want is mothers not alone in a
physical sense, for this attribute we hold in
common with the lower animals—but in-
tellectual, broad-minded, spiritual, social
mothers—mothers who are willing to meet
bravely the world, and battle with its diffi-
culties; mothers whose names will even
stand with honor in the lives of their poster-
ity. These are the kind of women we must
have, but the kind we will never get until
the women of the century are fully awaken-
ed to the importance of organization and
co-operation.
	We must have broader-minded mothers
and there is no better way to develop them
than through interest shown in their little
ones. Just let the mother feel that you are
unselfishly laboring for her children and
she will give you her hearty co-operation.
This is the only successful way of obtain-
ing the support and assistance of the greater
number of our mothers today, I have found
it to be the only thing that will make
mothers’ clubs successful organizations. It
has been the custom for years for mothers
to remain home days, weeks, yes, years,
ceaselessly laboring at everything, for the
benefit of her loved ones; she has never
stopped to think “that love grows by being
spent,” and she is never requiring her little
ones to labor for her. Her love each day may
grow brighter and stronger for them while
they are seeking other things to love. We
must, as mothers, mingle with the world;
for it is the only way to develop that love
for humanity which is character building.


