[Column 1]
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF SARAH B. LAYTON
			(Continued.)
	In my eighteenth year I again took sick.
I lost the use of my right hand, and that
was a great trial to me, not to be able to
use my hand, for with that I had earned
much. I then tried braiding straw, but
my hand continued getting weaker, and at
last I could do nothing The doctor came
and examined it and said it was my spine
that was affected and that I would have to
go to the hospital at once. I thought I
could never stand to go there, as I had
never been from home one night in my life,
but now to leave my home and friends, it
seemed as if it were more than I could
bear. Our presiding Elder advised me to
go. It was a Saturday when I went. It
was about ten miles from home. Mother
and the folks said that I could go an out
patient, that of course would allow me to
live at home, but go to the doctor for treat-
ment. When I arrived there the doctor
said he would have to examine my back,
so he drew his thumb down my back so
hard that I shall never forget it. He said
that I would have to come an in patient.
That meant that I should stay in the hos-
pital for treatment all the time. I cried
and said that I would rather go home and
die than to stay there, but mother told me
that if I would stay there I might get the
use of my hand. That was a great trial to
me. I was taken up to the fourth story
and was shown into what is called a two-
bedded ward. I walked in and there found
a strange woman occupying the one, I was
to occupy the other. Everything was as
clean and neat as it could be.
	My supper was some milk porridge, but
my appetite had not come. Then came
the nurse with some medicine and some
opium to put me to sleep; but it did not put
me to sleep that night.
	It was springtime and everything was
beautiful outside, the shade trees and the
gravel walks, but there was no pleasure
for me, for I was a stranger to everybody.
I went to a large window and dropped a
towel out so that I could go out for it. I
went, glad to get out of my prison, to the
place where I had dropped it. It happened

[Column 2]
to drop by the matron’s window. I did not
know, neither did I care, but when I
started up stairs a lady met me. She
looked very angry and said, “What have
you been down for? Do you not know
the rules?” She then asked my name and
told me to go back and read the rules, that
they were in my room, and said, “Do not
let me see you down again until after ten.”
	I did not say anything, for I did not
know what to say; and as for the rules,
I never did read them.
	At eleven o’clock the bell rang for church
but I said to the sick woman in the same
room that I would not go to their church.
She said I must, but I still insisted that I
would not go. I was then told that I would
have to take the blame. I wanted to get
out and did not care for the blame that
would be given me.
	After the service the minister was shown
in by the nurse. He looked at my name
on the card at the head of the bed, and said
in a stern voice, “Sarah Barnes, I did not
see you at church today.”
	He then wanted to know my reason, and
I told him it was just because I did not
want to go. I was asked whether I had
read those rules, or if I could not read?
But I informed them that I could, but did
not care to read their rules. The minister
wanted to know if I did not believe in re-
ligion, but I declined to tell him at that
time, I had never seen him before. He
left me then. He was a very pleasant ap-
pearing man and gentlemanly in his man-
ner. His hair was very white and he
seemed very nice.
	When he left the room the nurse asked
me why I objected to go to church? “For,”
said she, “you must go as long as you stay
here.”
	But I told her I would not, for the
church I believed in taught me better. I
was then asked what that church was, and I
told her that it was the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. She said she
was very sorry for me, for she said they
were a very wicked people; their leader
was a false prophet.
	From that time I began to tell about the
Gospel. I had some books with me and I
told them to read them. It was soon
known all through the building that I was
a Mormon. Some came in the room to see
me, to see what I looked like. Some said
they were afraid to pass the room, but I
told them there was no danger, and some
said that I ought not to be allowed to be in
the hospital. I tried to show them that it
was the true Gospel that was spoken of in
the Bible, that should be restored in the last
days by an angel who was to fly through
the midst of heaven, having the everlasting
Gospel to preach to those who dwelt upon
the earth. There were none there who had
ever heard an Elder preach, and they knew
nothing of it but from rumors.
	Well, Wednesday came, the day for all to
go to church again; but again I was absent.
At the close of their service the minister
again come to me and spoke of my being
absent, and asked what church I belonged
to, was it the Methodist, Calvinist or
Presbyterian, or what was it?
	“I do hope,” said he, “that you do not
belong to that deluded sect called Mormons,
led by that imposter, Joe Smith.”
	I quickly said, “I do belong to that very
church that you speak of.”
	He felt sorry that so young a girl as I
should be led into such a delusion.

[Column 3]
“I came into the church of my own ac-
cord,” I said, “after being fully convinced
that it was true.” This ended our talk for
that day.
	I had let some of the patients take the
books that I had with me to read, and many
of the patients began to listen to me in
telling about the Gospel. But Sunday
came again and this time when the minister
came in he had with him all my books and
told me that it was not allowed for me to
do as I had done, and that if they wanted to
hear from me they would have to come into
my room but that I might have the privi-
lege of talking to them if they wanted to
come into my room and listen. He then
began to ask questions about our religion,
which I answered very readily. He said
he understood that we had a new Bible, but
I told him that was not true. After an
hour’s conversation he left.
	On his next visit, the Wednesday follow-
ing, I was very low. I had been taken
very sick and they had put me in a warm
bath and it came near ending my life. I
fainted before I had been in there two
minutes, and they took me out and rolled
me up in a blanket and carried me to my
room and laid me on the bed, they thought
I was dead. Several of the inmates gathered
around me and felt my pulse, but no signs
of life could they find. I could hear every-
thing that they said and feel every touch,
but I could not move nor breathe. The
next thing I heard was that I must be
moved to the dead house. What a feeling!
How I prayed to the Lord to give me
strength to make some sign. At that
moment a young woman by the name of
Mary Harris suggested that they try putting
a looking glass to my lips and press it hard,
and that if there were any life it would be
shown by the breath on the glass. This
was tried and to the astonishment of them
they found the sign. The word “dead-
house” struck terror to me. In a short
time I could open my eyes, but I found that
I was very helpless, for I had not strength
to speak.
	When the minister came in the next
Sunday he seemed troubled when he saw
me so weak. I told him that I would be
better when he came next time. As he left
the room he called the nurse out and told
her that if there was anything that I wanted
to let him know what it was and he would
see that it was made right. He said that
my life was too precious to be neglected.
She came in and told me, but I said that
there was nothing I needed.
	Before he came again I had been almost
used up. My back was cupped; that is,
they had laid me on my face and cut twelve
gashes on each side of my backbone, and
then rubbed me with something that sali-
vated the whole of my back. The marks
still are there and will be as long as I live.
	He, the minister came and seemed to feel
so very sorry for me in my suffering, and
would spend considerable time with me and
ask if there was anything that I could fancy.
	The next week Lady Jane Pym drove up
to the hospital and inquired for me and
offered any assistance that I needed in the
way of comforts. The matron showed me
all the respect that it was possible for her to.
She would come in and sit and talk with me.
		(To be continued.)


If you would have, your songs endure,
build on the human heart.


