[Column 1]
CURRENT EVENTS.
(Read at the U. W. P. C. May 31, 1900.)
Madame Chairman and Ladies:
	In order to get over the worst part first, I
will commence this paper with the awful
calamity at Scofield, by which a large num-
ber of women and children were
left homeless and helpless. A calamity like
this is unparalleled in the United States.
	On the morning of May 1st over two hun-
dred men went to work as usual in the
mine. In a few hours their mangled re-
mains were being brought to the surface. A
large proportion of these were heads of
families. My sympathy went out to the
poor Finn women, who could speak no
English, and could only sit and moan.
Imagine ourselves where we could not
speak the language, and our loved ones
buried in a debris of fallen earth and tim-
ber.
	The disastrous results of this accident
have only been exceeded by one, which oc-
curred in Wales some years ago, in which
five hundred were killed in a mine explo-
sion. The largest one in the United
States, previous to the Scofield accident, oc-
curred in Pennsylvania, in which over one
hundred men lost their lives.
	We should be proud of the citizens of
Utah, and also citizens of other states, who
responded so nobly to the call for finance.
It is well, for we know not the hour that
we may need help ourselves.
	It is not war alone that makes heavy
drafts upon the courage and happiness of
women, since in many of the hazardous
vocations “Men must work and women
must weep.” The work of the world calls

[Column 2]
for sacrifices every hour. Every day lives
are snuffed out, and every day the world is
engaged in burying its dead. After the
funeral, the work has to be picked up and
carried on, so it is an endless chain, and life
itself is but a long funeral procession, until
it is closed at the grave.
	Almost heart-rending reports come from
India, bringing news of the pitiful condi-
tion of the country more than ever to the
public view. Cholera is gathering in its
deadly hold ninety millions of people, who
are living in the midst of pestilence and
misery.
	The government is exerting itself to
meet the emergency, but not more than five
million can be relieved. The roads are
crowded with ghastly bands seeking to es-
cape from stricken territories, but for lack
of food and water succumb in the attempt,
and the roads are dotted with heaps of dead
and dying. In some parts of India the
bodies lie exposed to the sun, as the inhabi-
tants are dying more rapidly than the sur-
vivors can provide for the dead.
	An appeal from London says that the
United States ought to at least contribute a
million of dollars toward a relief fund. An-
other from Calcutta says that owing to the
fact that the English are engaged in the
somewhat expensive task of reducing the
South African Republic to the same Colon-
ial vassalage, the government has not been
able to do as much for the succor of the
people of India as it might under other
circumstances.
	Every American sympathizes with these
sufferers in far off Asia. The deplorable
condition produced by crop failure has been
intensified by the financial system enforced
on the people of the unhappy land by the
London bankers. No doubt the United
States would raise the one million, without
much trouble, but while we are sending
money into this British colony, the British
are sending money out to aid in the spoila-
tion in other lands.
	The Philadelphia Ledger has this to say
about England.
	She is sending millions out in carrying out an
aggressive and unjust war against South Africa,
while neglecting the manifest duties towards sub
jects who being under paternal sway, should be
equally the subjects of paternal solicitude. If
England can afford to spend so much money for
the taking of the lives of the Boers, she should be
able to spend a tithe of the sum to save the live
of her starving people in India. If England in-
sists upon spreading death and desolation in South
Africa and squandering her millions in this way,
what is left for humanity to do, but to feed and
care for her starving subjects and colonists in
Asia?
	The Paris Exposition of 1900 was formal-
ly opened on April 14, M. Milerand, the
Socialist Minister of Commerce, was chosen
to deliver the inaugural address. Like all
expositions the present one was opened
some weeks before the buildings were
ready. The number of American exhibi-
tors is second only to those of France, and
far ahead of all other competitors. Where
England has only one thousand, Germany
three thousand, the United States has seven
thousand exhibitors.
	The American section occupies three
hundred and twenty-nine thousand, and
fifty-two square feet, with forty-seven dis-
tinct exhibition spaces. There is every
reason to believe that the exhibition will
have good effect beyond its commercial suc-
cess.
	After three years of almost incessant tur-
moil, it need hardly be said that the Fre


(Column 1)
people have put forth every effort to make
the Exposition successful. The number of
French exhibits reach thirty thousand,
twelve thousand more than all foreign
competitors put together. The grounds
have been laid and the buildings erected in
accordance with the French taste which is
so universally admired.
	Germany has shown particular friendli-
ness, and the Russian section was opened
with special ceremonies, the occasion being
the presentation of a personal gift from the
Czar to France.
	The Queen of Saxony visited the Exposi-
tion, and set an example that will probably
be followed by all the Royalty of Europe.
	One of the most delightful places to live
in is the little village of Ætenburg, Europe.
It is ruled by no monarch, has no soldiers,
no police and no taxes. It is where four
countries meet, but belongs to none.
	The railway system in the Phillipine
Islands consists of a single line of antiquated
cars running over a road of less than 125
miles. To give us an idea of the form of
travel and transportation under the long
Spanish regime: This road connects Manil-
la with Dagupan, a town on the east coast
of the Island of Luzon. The gauge of the
road is three feet six inches, the ties of the
finest hardwood, the locomotives are insig-
nificant. The speed averages less than fif-
teen miles an hour. When the American
troops took possession of the Island, their
railroading astonished the natives, the speed
being frequently doubled. Compartment
coaches are used, each apartment seating
eight people. The first class are provided
with cane chairs: the second class, rough
wooden benches; the third class, entirely
bare and are usually crowded with natives
carrying baskets and bundles of all de-
scriptions.
	The recent visit of Queen Victoria to the
Emerald Isles was an occasion of rejoicing
and the heartiest welcome possible. All
accounts agree that as a mere matter of
artistic display, the Queen’s reception sur-
passed the Jubilee celebration of 1897. And
far more remarkable was the irrepressible
delight of the Irish people at having the
Queen again among them, after an absence
of nearly forty years. The visit was
undertaken in recognition of the bravery
of the Irish soldiers in South Africa, and no
attempt was made on either side to give it a
political coloring.
	On the 24th of this mouth was the 81st
birthday of this noble queen. For sixty-
five years she has dignified the English
throne with the noblest attributes of en-
lightened womanhood. As wife, mother
and monarch she has presented an example
of honor, virtue, piety and patience which
has served as a constant inspiration to her
subjects. The world has seen few such
queenly women, never a more womanly
queen.
	Alaska promises to be of more service in
other ways than producing gold. A curi-
ous and interesting part is the effort to save
our wild animals from extinction. Thirty-
five small, bare Alaskan islands are occupied
by fox farmers who are breeding wild foxes.
They pay the United States $100 a year for
these islands. The blue fox has been in
line of extinction with the buffalo, wild
pigeon and the ruffed grouse. The fox
farmers pay from $150.00 to $200.00 per
pair for breeding animals, and mnst wait a
dozen years for profit, then the profits are
large.	The animals are fed on unmarket-

(Column 2)
able fish, blubbers and cornmeal. Each
island is in charge of a keeper and two or
three native assistants. The Island of
Kadiak has 1275 foxes bred by an enter-
prising Long Islander, who believes that
this will lead to the domestication of many
other fur bearing animals.
	The Supreme Court decision just handed
down in the Kentucky gubernatorial con-
test puts an end to a disgraceful controversy.
In Kentucky for over a century the ques-
tion of disputed governorship has been one
for the legislative assembly to decide. 	It
did decide who was Governor and there
the case should have rested. 
	The present season has witnessed an epi-
demic in strikes, unlike anything the coun-
try has seen for years. 	Chicago gets her
share of strikes especially among the
machinists. 	A short time ago three thou-
sand machinists were out in Chicago, and
two thousand more in Cleveland and Colum-
bus, Ohio.
	The unrest in the trade threatened the
suspension of work among the Union
machinists all over the country. In Chicago
the violence which the strikers have resorted
to has not been beyond the power of the
officials to control. In New York the
militia have been called upon to preserve
order.
	Another strike a few days ago, in St.
Louis produced blood shed and death.	A
street car strike in Kansas City is also re-
corded. The car strikes are disastrous to
people living miles out of town, and who
are obliged to depend on car service, especi-
ally working people who are liable to lose
positions if not in time for work.
	Japanese emigration continues to excite
the laboring men in this country, and no
wonder. Hundreds of the Orientals are
coming in on every ship, some to take the
place of section hands on railroads and
others to work in factories.	It is reported
that the Japanese are leaving their country
by thousands because of the danger of a
conflict between Japan and Russia. It is
estimated that ten thousand Japs landed on
the Pacific coast last month.  They dis-
embarked in British Columbia and made
their way across the border to get employ.
ment when and where they might.
	The Bubonic plague seems to be a serious
matter. The Chinese are in mortal terror
of innoculation. They gather in mobs and
the Federal authorities are obliged to take a
hand in the disturbances.	The Chinese
highbinders have threatened to assassinate
any Chinese who submit to innoculation
against the plague. There are twenty-three
thousand Chinese in the Chinese quarters
in San Francisco, and they are terrorized at
the prospect of vacination. With the
“Haffkine Brophylactic” most of the
Chinese were at first willing to submit to
the innoculation, until the  highbinders
issued the ultimatum that the whites wanted
to kill off the Chinese and took this method
of doing so.	The plague is a high fever,
indisposition one day, collapse the next and
the following day death. There seems to
be no medical treatment for it but the serum
which is injected into the blood, and in that
way destroys the food of the bacilli and the
fever is abated and recovery assured.	Rats
are a ready victim to the disease and die
in numbers, they are the most dangerous
means of carrying the infection. In the
last dispatches from San Francisco the
board of health had quarantined China-
town, and all that section of the city is sur

(Column 3)
rounded by police who refuse to let any one
pass in or out. The quarantine also in-
cludes street cars, which are not allowed to
pass through the district.
	A session that we have been much inter-
ested in this month is the Mothers’ Con-
gress. The papers and oral arguments
gave subjects for consideration.	An inter-
change of thoughts and ideas is good for us
all.	After the reception of Professor Cris-
mon,s paper at the Mothers’ Congress at
Des Moines, Iowa, I am inclined to think
that the gentleman will not be so free to
offer his valuable information.
	The resolution that was passed at our
Congress to prevent young girls from enter-
ing wine rooms and the sale of cigarettes to
minors, deserves the thanks of every mother
and father in Utah. We have laws here
against these very things and every one
should pay the penalty for disregarding
these laws. If the City Council pays no at-
tention to the appeal of the mothers, then
it is time for them to take a hand in the
municipal affairs of our fair city.
	Last, but not least, in our current events
of this month, is Decoration Day.	This
day is for a tribute of love and honor to
the nation’s dead.	No other government
has a day like this, others have achieved
their independence, at the cost of blood,
but they have never thought of setting
apart a day for the decoration of the graves
of the dead soldiers.
	In Utah and in other states new graves
have been made in the last two years. The
brave lads who heard the call for soldiers
sprang to arms in response. Some of these
were boys who but a little while ago were
in our public schools, and when they re-
turned to us were hidden away in their final
homes and were given back dust to dust.
Many a mound which covered the crumb-
ling dust of heroes was decorated yesterday
with flowers and wreaths, symbols of a sor-
row with which we would not part; tributes
of a love that lives while memory lasts.
