[Column 1]
A HOPEFUL OUTLOOK.
	It is rather a hopeful outlook for the
future that men of exceptional ability have
been appointed by the President of the
United States to represent this country in
the International Court of Arbitration.
The Hague agreement stipulated that each
of the signatory powers were to appoint
men of recognized standing on great
national questions, to arbitrate differences
between interested governments that were
at variance.
	Very much has been said and written in
regard to the Hague Conference being a
failure, but the leaven generated there will
work its way among all civilized people,
and the little seed sown, though it may
have been small, will certainly become a
strong and powerful tree, under whose
wide-spread branches generations yet un-
born may sit at ease and rejoice that war
and all its attendant evils and terrible con-
sequences are known no more.
	The sentiment in favor of peace created
through the agitation of the meetings held
simultaneously, just previous to the sitting
of the Hague Conference, will never die
out while women mourn their dead slain in
battle, since that gathering of the repre-
sentatives of sixteen nations. Sixteen
powers signed the Articles of the Conven-
tion. The Pope sent a letter assuring the
assembly of his cooperation, and stating
that he had at times previous performed
the functions of an arbitrator, and promised
to continue his efforts in the advancement
of civilization; and we know the highest
civilization makes for peace.
	The fact of an International Court of
Arbitration on neutral ground once fully
established will have its influence upon
national differences, and create a feeling of
greater permanency in securing justice to
all concerned in the causes to be adjusted.
Notwithstanding it may take a long time
to bring about the much desired results,
yet we should not lose heart in pursuing
the work that is sure to triumph ultimately.
	Though men may agree that it is all in
vain, because wars have been waged since,
(and it is the way of the world) yet, never-
theless, we know ignorance is hard to
overcome, and it is the few who are sueing
for peace against the many whose methods
are crude, and whom it is difficult to con-
vince that there is a, better way to settle

[Column 2]
even national disputes, than to array armed
forces against each other.
	Not only does the furtherance of the
measures to establish this International
Court of Arbitration look hopeful, but the
theories and philanthropic sentiments of
women now being developed along practical
lines that will tend to helpfulness in ways
heretofore directed wholly along charitable
lines; instead investing money in enter-
prises that will supply work for those
needing help and actually encouraging
habits of industry in those more or less
dependent, who through force of circum-
stances are not in a position to create work
that is remunerative. When women’s
clubs and societies can launch ou tand do
such things as are now proposed in some
of the large cities of the East, young men
will not enlist in the army so frequently for
the sake of a living, and brought up in the
country air and taught healthfulness and
familiarity with nature, will give new life
and increased vitality to the boys and girls
who have the material benefit of such
training.
	One lady in dealing with this subject says
charity deals with symptoms, philanthropy
with the disease; but she went on to tell
the need of law which is a vital truth, for
when any effort is made the workers are con-
fronted by the law, city, state or national,
and the question goes back to the honesty,
fearlessness and disinterestedness of the
law makers and law enforcers. All giving
of material aid should be with a view, if
possible, to make the recipient self-helpful.


