[Column 1]
returned from a visit to Canada, and had
met there an English Lord and his wife
and party. Told us how punctual they
were in keeping an appointment they had
made with our people to meet some of our
folks and dine with them, even though they
had to ride and drive through a heavy rain
storm, both going and returning. His
Excellency remarked, “We made an ap-
pointment and we would not break it.”
Sister Smith felt the people were prospering
there and were serving the Lord. The
Relief Society, the Y. L. M. I. A. and the
Sunday School were all visited, and were
doing a good work. The vegetables raised
up there were very large and excellent, it
was easy to raise them. The people had
also started fruit trees. The Saints were
enjoying their religion and trying to make
an honest living; and meantime they are
making themselves comfortable homes as
circumstances will permit. They are not
without recreation, such as dancing parties
and simple amusements.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, stated that the Stake had only been
organized a little over two years, and they
felt the need of the visiting sisters to give
counsel and encouragement. They had
saved some grain and had some granaries.
They had found it a good plan to line the
granaries with tin. Dr Ellis R. Shipp had
been there and taught a class in obstetrics and
nursing. She felt these classes were needed
in Zion. Spoke encouragingly upon the
progress women were making everwhere.
	President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake, said they had been called upon to
donate a hundred dollars towards fixing up
the Academy and they had complied. She
was sure they would do their share in any
undertaking to benefit the society. Spoke
very kindly of the retiring president, and
said that they valued her services and would
like to have the benefit of her counsel and
experience.
	Star Valley Stake was represented by
Annie K. Kennington, who said: “We have
a new president, Sister Alice J. Call, our
former president having moved away. We
have not a large Stake, we visit every six
months. We can’t boast much of our
grain, ours is a stock raising country. We
have one house of our own belonging to the
Relief Society. We have never yet had a
visit from the leading sisters, but anticipate
one sometime, we shall be very glad to
have them come to see us.”
	Pocatello: President Eliza M. Oram said:
“During the two years I have presided we
have visited the Stake throughout three
times. We have ten wards and three hun-
dred members. We are in a scattered con-
dition, though we travel by team and we
are united in the work. We had a visit
from Sister Grant and Sister Stevenson and
we enjoyed their visit very much, they have
the spirit of progress. We feel there are
not enough young women who appreciate
the work of this society. Brother Nuttall
came and went through the Stake with us.
Our sisters are not rich and money is scarce
with us, our sisters cannot give as those
who are working for a salary. I feel to
bless the sisters of the General Board. Sis-
ter Grant prophesied to us when she was
there and her words came to pass in less
than a month.”
	Bingham Stake, President Emma J. Ben-
nett: “We have visited all the places this
last spring except one. We have to travel
over seven hundred miles and do it all by

[Column 2]
team. I believe we are converting our
brethren up there. At first they seemed
afraid and did not come into our meetings,
but now we have a great many of them who
attend. They really did not know the
benefit of the Relief Society until they had
one in their own locality. We have had
Sister Stevenson’s counsel and instruction
we have had in our visits a wonderful por-
tion of the Spirit of God in our meetings in
the various places. I am pleased that we
are to have a building of our own, every
Stake will be interested in this, we are all
working for the same cause.”
	The Young Ladies’ choir sang a very
beautiful hymn, “Labor On.”
	The secretary gave out notices of meet-
ings and explained some important matters.
	President Thomas E. Ricks, of Fremont
Stake, gave a good report of the sisters’
labors in that place. He was thankful for
the Relief Society, and that we were to
have a place to meet in suitable to our
needs. Referred to the faithful labors of
the older sisters, some of them who had
been faithful since the first days of the
Church.
	President Zina D. H. Young: “If I had
the power to bless you, my sisters, more
than you are blest, I would do so; but the
blessings of heaven are with us. I always
feel like a babe in the hands of my Father
in heaven. Sisters, never speak a word
against the authorities of this Church. May
we each of us have wisdom to impart the
true principles to our children and to our
companions, and to the world, I rejoice in
the spirit that has filled this house,
the sweet peace, the loving forbearance of
our Heavenly Father, that takes us into
sacred nearness to Him. I pray that we
may all come together again in the name of
Jesus. Amen.”
	President Jane S. Richards: “I have had
several invitations to speak today, but wished
to hear from “Sister Zina” and others. I
never get tired in a Relief Society meeting.
We have had a glorious time today in this
conference, and I wished to wait until every
one else had spoken. I have enjoyed the
meeting very much, and have felt happy
and had enjoyment in hearing the reports
and in listening to the mothers, and
especially to Sister Zina. It is a great call-
ing to be a mother, and to train our children
whether we are mothers or grandmothers.
I feel as some of the sisters do who have
spoken about partaking of the sacrament.
Sister Horne spoke of this. I think we can
all improve in this matter. When we think
of the love of our Father while we are par-
taking, and we want our children with us.
I have admired very much all who have re-
ported, especially the one who spoke of the
rough boys. I must tell a little story: One
day there were four little boys quarreling,
calling each other bad names as I was going
along the street. I stopped a minute and
talked to them. I told them I was sorry to
hear such language and tried to persuade
them to make up, ‘but,’ I said, ‘I am going
on now and I’ll be back in ten minutes.
You little boys partake of the sacrament. I
shall be obliged to report you to the Sunday
School unless you make up before I come
back. When I returned they had made it
all up. We ought to teach all these little
things. What a favor and privilege it is to
live when Temples are built and the Lord
will accept of them and we have the oppor-
tunity of doing a work for our dead friends.
Sister Smith said she liked to see us in the

[Column 3]
Temple, she has the spirit of it. When I
went for my grandmother I left her name.
Brother Edlefson said, ‘No, do for her
yourself,’ I was gratified to have the feel-
ing that my grandmother was by me and
followed me. We have everything to en-
courage us. When Jesus was upon the
earth He worked among the poor, just as
we do when we are trying to do the work
He did. Weakly people, when they go to a
good meeting, come home feeling well and
lifted up in their hearts to go on in doing
good. May the Lord bless us and keep us
safe, is my prayer.
	Conference adjourned until April. 1901.
Singing, “God be with you till we meet
again.” Benediction by Sister Elizabeth J.
Stevenson.
		E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


