ZINA SMOOT WHITNEY.

“There is no death—the thing that we call death
	Is but another sadder name for life,
Which is itself an insufficient name,
	Faint recognition of that unknown Life
That Power whose shadow is the universe.”

	When we think of the beautiful woman
whose name is mentioned here, we cannot
feel that she is dead, and as we sat pen in
hand meditating, the poet’s words we have
quoted came fresh to mind, although we
had not thought of them for years. Zina
has passed from earth to another sphere,
she has gone home to her Father and
Mother in heaven, and her little babe,
Heber, and to her earthly father and
mother, and many more whom she knew
and loved while here. We who loved her—
children, husband and friends—cannot call
her back, do what we may, but we can
cherish her memory, emulate her good
deeds, her many virtues, her tender, sweet
words and ways, her gentleness, her purity.
We could not wish to have her live and
suffer longer; she has gone where there is
no pain nor sorrow, nor will there be any
more sad partings for her to endure, and
by and by we shall go to her if we are
worthy.

[Column 2]
“So—through fierce winds blowing.
	Through rough desert ways,
Through long nights whose dreary darkness
	Reaches o’er the days,
So He brings them home at last
Safe from every stormy blast!

So—through cares and trials,
	Through temptations strong,
Through dead hopes whose joyous blossoms
	Have been wasted long;
So He brings His chosen Home
Nevermore to sadly roam!”

	Sister Whitney’s many attractive char-
acteristics endeared her to those with whom
she was associated; and she had a large
circle of intimate friends, as well as
relatives whose hearts were deeply touched
when they realized that she had gone for-
ever from their view. But her children
live and whatever affection or tenderness
may be bestowed upon them the mother
will appreciate as if it were done to her,
and even more, for now her capacity for
love will be greater than before. She
“wore the badge of motherhood with
most becoming grace,” and now that she
cannot minister to the little ones she
loved so tenderly, will watch her little
flock with even greater solicitude. And
we who remain count not those lost who
died loving us.
	Zina Smoot Whitney, beloved wife of
Bishop O. F. Whitney, was born February
20, 1859, and was the daughter of the Hon.
Abraham O. and Emily H. Smoot. Sister
Whitney passed peacefully away at her
home in this city, on Sunday afternoon,
May 20, 1900, aged forty-one years and
three months.
	The funeral was held at the family
residence on Wednesday, May 23. The
rooms were beautifully decorated with
flowers, the loving gifts of her dear friends,
who with their own hands arranged them
and also made the dainty garments in
which she was robed and laid away.
	The funeral services were held at 2 p.
m. and were tender and impressive, the
music being particularly fine, and the
speakers were sympathetic as well and in-
spirational. Her grave was literally
covered with exquisite floral tributes. Her
last resting place was dedicated by Elder
Rulon S. Wells, and the quartette of sing-
ers rendered the beautiful hymn “Rest on
the Hillside, Rest.”


