[Column 1]
	Bishop Hamilton, of Mill Creek: “I re-
member a few years ago on my way to Re-
lief Society I met a brother who had just
come out of the penitentiary. I invited
him to come with me. In his remarks he
said, ‘My dear sisters, I love every one of
you.’ I might say the same. I see my
dear mother and a great many good women
here. I have made quite an effort to get
here, but I have been working in the ser-
vice of the Lord. He said we should take
an interest in all the organizations. My
dear sisters, may God bless you and may
we become more acquainted with each
other and with the principles of our re-
ligion.”
	Counselor Mary P. Young: “It has been
moved and seconded that we return a vote of
thanks to the good sisters who have pre-
pared and furnished us with refreshments.
	Singing, “Hail to the Prophet.” Benedic-
tion by Counselor Mary B. Hamilton.
			ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Sec.
		MALAD STAKE.
	The Malad Stake Relief Society held its
quarterly conference at Fielding on Sunday,
August 12, with Stake President Lucinda
Hoskins presiding. On the stand, of the
General Board, were President Jane S.
Richards, Stake President Lucinda Hoskins
and counselors, Secretary Eliza A. Hall and
a good representation of the presidents of
the different branches.
	Meeting opened by the choir singing
“Come, thou glorious day of promise.”
Prayer was offered by President O. C.
Hoskins. Continued by singing “Come
ye that love the Lord.” The minutes of
the previous conference were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Lucinda Hoskins felt happy to
see so many of the sisters in conference;
called for reports from the different branches.
	President Annie Sawyer reported Malad
city; President Jane A. Harris, Portage;
President Eliza A. Ward, Washakie;
President Hannah Griffiths, Samaria;
Counselor Sarah Rudd, Plymouth. All
were in excellent condition, a good spirit
prevailing in each branch reported.
	President Jane S. Richards said, “We do
not desire to speak only as we are dictated
by the Spirit of the Lord. The Relief
Society was organized for the purpose of
taking care of the sick and of those that
cannot take care of themselves. We think
and worry too much over our work and do
not pay enough attention to our spiritual
affairs.” She had never missed anything
by attending her meetings. “We should
divide our means with those less fortunate
than ourselves. It would be well for the
presidents to hold meetings at the home of
some of the sisters that never attend meet-
ings. It has been done and with the very
best results.” She admonished the teachers
to visit all the sisters in each ward and try
to get them to attend their meetings in the
Relief Society, and would gain rich bless-
ings thereby.
	Bishop Henry Hess, of Fielding, esteemed
it a glorious privilege to meet in the Stake

[Column 2]
Conference. “There is a great glory in
store for those sisters who will live humble
and take the advice of those dear sisters that
are over us.
	Myron Richards, Bishop of Riverside, al-
ways enjoyed the instruction given in the
Relief Society conference by these dear sis-
ters who are laboring so diligently for the
upbuilding of the kingdom of our Father in
heaven.
	President Lucinda Hoskins adjourned
the conference until 2 p. m. Meeting
closed by singing “Should you feel inclined
to censure.” Benediction by Stake Counse-
lor Wm. H. Gibbs.
	Afternoon session opened by the choir
singing “High on the mountain tops.”
Prayer was offered by Elder E. Wilcox.
Continued by singing “Again we meet
around the board. ” The sacrament was
then adminisiered by the brethren. Minutes
of the last afternoon conference read and
approved.
	On motion of Christina McCrary, seconded
by Lucinda Hoskins, Jannette Parkinson
was sustained treasurer of the Malad Stake
Relief Society.
	President Alice A. Smith reported the
Fielding Ward; President Lucy Mason, St.
John; President Julia Richards, Riverside;
all in good running order, the sisters alive
to their duties.
	Stake Counselor Christina McCrary and
Secretary Eliza A. Hall then spoke a short
time.
	Sister West, of Ogden, felt thankful she
had a name and standing in the Church and
kingdom of God. Spoke of the healing
ordinances and many other subjects.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke at some
length on the benefit the young ladies
would derive by joining the Relief Society.
We should be willing to make many sacri-
fices in order to keep our children in the
Church. Asked the presidents of associa-
tions to visit the different branches and be-
come acquainted with each other. Asked
God to bless and unite us all together, that
we may be saved in the kingdom of God.
Stated that President Zina D. H. Young
sent her love to all the sisters in Malad
Stake of Zion and would have loved to have
been in our conference.
	President O. C. Hoskins made excellent
remarks, bearing testimony to the instruc-
tions that had been given in our meetings.
The choir sang “Lord, Thou wilt hear us
when we pray.” Benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Frank Walker.
