BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSAY.
	On the 2nd of December was the birthday
anniversary of Sister Armeda Snow Young,
and by invitation of her husband, Brother
Morris Young, and his mother, Sister
Margaret P. Young, a number of her friends
gathered at her home and held a meeting.
As it was Fast day many of the guests had
attended the morning Fast meeting in the
Temple, yet were not excused on that
account, therefore the Bishop of the ward,
Millen C. Atwood, and Frank Y. Taylor,
President of Granite Stake, in which she re-
sides, had arranged to hold the meeting at
the residence of Brother and Sister Young.
	President F. Y. Taylor took charge of
the meeting, Prof. C. J. Thomas of the
music. The first exercise was singing,
“Jesus mighty King in Zion.” Prayer by
Brother McGee. “Singing, O, my Father,”
	President Taylor made a few opening re-
maks, also President John R. Winder, one
of the presiding Bishopric of the Church,
and Bishop Atwood.
	Brother George D. Pyper sang in his
beautiful tenor, “Scatter Sunshine,” which
was a great pleasure to all.
	Other speakers were Sisters Zina D. H.
Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emma S.
Woodruff, Sarah B. Gibson, Margaret P.
Young’ Emmeline B. Wells, Brother and
Sister McGee and Sister Lillie T. Freeze,
who also sang very sweetly in the gift of
tongues which was interpreted by “Sister
Zina.” Brother Hafen also made some re-
marks.
	Brother and Sister Morris Young wel-
comed the guests in the beginning of the
meeting very cordially, and all the exercises
were rendered in a very heavenly spirit.
Prof. Thomas led in the hymn, “Who are
these arrayed in white?” and at the close
the hymn “Lord dismiss us with Thy bless-
ing” was sung by the assembly. Bishop
Winder pronounced the benediction.
	Tables were spread with a bountiful re-
past and decorations of white chrysanthe-
mums and beautiful ferns gave a festive ap-
pearance to the auspicious occasion.
	The dinner was a most delicious one and
thoroughly enjoyed by all present, as also
the conversation, which was mostly rem-
iniscent of “Auld Lang Syne.”
	Many heartfelt congratulations and good
wishes for future success and happiness
were showered upon Sister Young in re-
membrance of the day, and complimenting
her upon retaining her youthful appearance
and vivacity of spirits, and wishing herself,
husband and children all the blessings
of this life and eternal happiness hereafter.
	There were many others present besides
those who took part in the meeting, among
whom we noticed Prof. Evans (the artist)
and wife, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, Brother
Le Roy Snow and wife, Mrs. George D.
Pyper, Mrs. Asahel Woodruff, Mrs. Mary
A. Freeze and many others.
	President Lorenzo Snow, Sister Young’s
father, was detained on account of a death
in the family, which was a source of regret


to all; but the affair was a very pleasant one
and the EXPONENT wishes long life, health
and prosperity to Sister Young, and that
she may always be able to entertain her
friends in as kindly and hospitable a fashion.


