[Column 1]
we were kindly entertained for dinner at
Sister Sullivans.
	Sods Springs was the next place visited,
where we enjoyed the delightful soda water.
President Lau received us and we had a
good meeting. From there we went to the
branch of the Lund ward and organized a
branch of the Relief Society.
	We had a good attendance of both
brethren and sisters, a good spirit was
manifest and some good instructions given.
	Sister Cramer was sustained as president,
and Sister Peck and Sister Hedda Anderson
as her counselors, and Sister Jergeson as
secretary and treasurer.
	The next place visited was Ten Mile, a
branch of Hatch ward, where we had a
good attendance. The many subjects
handled were unity, charity and the storing
of grain. We were entertained by Presi-
dent Esther Banks in her usual genial sty[---]
	The next meeting was held at Hatch
ward, where there was the largest attend-
ance, according to their number, all being
present who had their names enrolled except
two. A good spirit prevailed and many
good instructions were given.
	The last meeting was held at Chesterfield.
President Columbia Loveland, of Chester-
field, gave a good report of the society. Felt
weak in her position, yet willing to go
ahead and do her best. The Stake presi-
dency gave some good instructions and en-
couraged the sisters and said that they had
enjoyed their visit through the Stake very
much, and thought the sisters were doing
a good work in this part of the Lord’s vine-
yard.
		HANNAH C. HATCH, Sec.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake was held in the
Assembly Hall, Saturday, September 8,
1900, President Horne presiding. Meeting
opened at ten a. m. by singing, “Once more
we come before our God.” Prayer by Cor-
responding Secretary Maria W. Wilcox.
Officers present on the stand. President M.
Isabella Horne; Counselors A. T. Hyde and
C. C. Cannon; General Presidents Z. D. H.
Young and B. W. Smith; Sisters M. W.
Wilcox, J. C. Howe, E. J. Stevenson and
Emma A. Empey.
	Conference continued by singing, “O
Jesus, the Giver.” Minutes of morning
session of previous conference, held March
5, 1900, read and accepted.
	President Horne made opening remarks.
Regretted that no more were present today.
The last conference had to be omitted and
we had really not held a conference for six
months. “Where there is a will, there is a
way,” and if the sisters had a party or a
parade to attend they could find time to go.
The things of the world should not take the
place of the things of the kingdom. I wish
every one would read the 3rd chapter of
Isaiah. The young people of this day in the
kingdom do not have the trials and the
hardships to endure that their parents and
grandparents had. If we do not listen to
the promptings of the Spirit we will regret
it greatly in the time to come. We do many
things that it would be better to leave un-
done. Presidents talk of these things in
your societies, urge the young women to
come and assist in the Relief Society.”
	The financial and statistical reports were
read by the secretary, also the treasurer’s
report and all accepted.
	Superintendent Empey gave a report of

[Column 2]
the nurses. There are twenty-five nurses
who are ready to answer any call for charity.
“I am pleased to say that there have been
only four cases of extreme destitution that
we have had to provide for. There is a
good spirit among the nurses and they are
willing to work wherever they are needed.
Those who have done the most charity
work are those who are willing to do more.
I have enjoyed my work, though it has been
quite hard at times, but we understand the
work now, so that in future it will not be so
difficult. I do not think there is any need
of any one who is suffering to lack attention.
There are many who do not feel like accept-
ing charity, and this is commendable.
Such cases should not suffer, but can pay a
small amount. There are two of the nurses
who do only charity work, they will not
accept pay, but give their time freely when
required by the poor.”
	Reports were then given from the First
Ward, President Steel The reports gener-
ally showed that the different associations
were in good condition.
	Second Ward, President Bassett. She
said they had adopted a plan of working in
the Temple one day a month for the poor.
	Third Ward, President Smith; Fifth
Ward, Sister Pettit; Sixth Ward, President
West; Eighth Ward, Sister Chamberlain;
Ninth Ward, reported by teacher; Tenth,
Ward, President Paul; Eleventh Ward, re-
ported by the counselor; Twelfth Ward by
President Druce.
	President Horne made closing remarks,
approving what had been reported. Hoped
the house would be filled this afternoon.
	Meeting adjourned till two p. m. Sing-
ing, “Our God we raise to Thee.” Bene-
diction by Sister B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session. In addition to those
present in the morning, there were Apostles
Young and Grant and President Joseph E.
Taylor and President Elmina S. Taylor.
	Meeting commenced by singing “Come
come, ye Saints” by members of the Tem-
ple choir. Opening prayer by Sister Sarah
J. Cannon. Singing, “Lord we come be-
fore Thee now.” Minutes of afternoon ses-
sion of previous conference held March 5
read and accepted.
	President Horne was pleased to announce
that Apostles Young and Grant were with
us and we will be pleased to hear from
them during the afternoon. First we will
hear from our “mother,” Sister Zina D. H.
Young.
	Sister Young spoke in a most feeling
and interesting way. Gave many incidents
of great interest connected with her event-
ful life. “When I hear the sisters pray for
me I think ‘O, am I worthy?’ Let us try
to be cheerful, be upright, be honest. Let
us be an example to our children. How
thankful we should be for good parents.
I pray that we may all be obedient and
strive to keep the Spirit of the Lord.
	President B. W. Smith spoke of the sis-
ters. Urged all to be faithful, honest,
truthful and virtuous, that we may merit
the blessings of God.
	Sister S. J. Cannon followed, expressing
her gratitude for the privilege of attending
these meetings. It is a greater work than
we realize.
	President Joseph E. Taylor said we should
try to create circumstances rather than to be
controlled by them. “We are crowded so
much by the affairs of the world that it
would seem that we hardly have time to
serve the Lord. I have enjoyed hearing

[Column 3]
he testimonies of the sisters from their rich
experiences, and we should treasure them
up. I have been urging the young sisters
to come to the front and relieve and assist
the older sisters, take advice from them, and
profit by their experience.
	“President Brigham Young said: ‘God
will hold you responsible for the faith of
your children.’ The mothers have too many
household cares, they should be relieved in
a measure, that they may have more time
to cultivate their children. There is an in-
fluence at work in the world that tends to
limit the bearing of children and this in-
fluence is creeping in among us. I wish to
urge upon you sisters that wherever you
hear a whisper of this, use your influence
against it. What was the greatest blessing
and promise to Abraham? Offspring. There
are some that through physical causes are
deprived of this great blessing and who
mourn over this condition. To such I
would say be faithful and prayerful and the
time will come that you shall have this
great blessing and you shall rejoice.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde would like to
have these meetings once a week, that we
might meet together and receive instruction.
Teachers should visit the sisters, not simply
to gather donations, but to give spiritual
advice and aid and to relieve the suffering.
The work of the nurses is very praise-
worthy. The two years for which this first
class was engaged is nearly over and we
wish to have another class started. Presi-
dents should find out how many would like
to join. If there are any among the young
ladies, would be pleased to have them join.
If there are any in adjoining Stakes who
can come, they will be admitted.
	President Horne spoke to presidents and
secretaries: “Be sure to have your reports
in on time.” Was surprised to hear that in
some of the wards children were sent around
to gather donations. This is not right, but
the sisters should go to give counsel and
comfort to the Saints.
	Apostle Brigham Young said all that he
had heard this afternoon was in harmony
with his thoughts. “The work of the Re-
lief Society is a labor of love without hope
of reward in this life. The duties are
onerous, many of them disagreeable. In
the pioneer days my mother’s home was a
hospital. Strangers, sometimes a half
dozen at a time, were cared for when they
were sick unto death. The Relief Society
is a power for good in Zion. Ever since I
can remember I have heard the voices of
these good women raised in defense of the
right, for good, for purity of life in public
and in private. Their voices by and by
will be stilled. Their experience is like re-
fined gold, and more precious than gold are
their words. Those who are not here to
listen to them will be the losers. In relation
to what the Prophet said concerning the
duties of mothers, I do know that the Lord
never requires anything of His son or His
daughter that is impossible.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant followed. “Ac-
cording to the number present the sisters
have done better today than we did at our
conference. There are many who have the
letter of the Gospel, but not the spirit.
There is nothing truer than has been said,
that the right spirit is obtained by attend-
ing our meetings. The adversary has no
power over a faithful man or woman. When
we follow the advice and counsel of those
in authority all will come out right. Gave
several instances in proof of this. When


we do not partake of the right spirit and 
have the letter only, then we go wrong. 
"If each sister here will make up her mind to
bring some one else here with her for your
next conference she can do it. I echo all 
the sentiments of respect and love for the 
aged sisters and for all the sisters who are 
faithful. After all is said and done it is the 
faithful mothers in Zion that make the faith-
ful children."
	President Horne felt very thankful for
the good words from our brethren. "Re-
member what has been said and profit by it."
Also felt grateful to the singers. Adjourned
conference until December 1. Singing, 
"O God, our help in ages past." Benedic-
tion by Counselor Clara C. Cannon. 
