	MISS ROSE ELIZABETH CLEVELAND
sister of ex-President Cleveland, and Miss
Ames, daughter of ex-Governor Ames, of
Massachusetts, have bought an old home-
stead in Seven Hundred Acre Island, Me.,

[Column 2]
which they are to have remodelled into a
fine summer residence.
	A NEW monthly magazine will appear in
Boston this month called The Patriotic
Review. It will be published from Septem-
ber to May, inclusive, each year, and will
be devoted to the interest of patriotic and
historical societies throughout the country.
Miss Marion Howard Brazier will be editor
and Miss Ethel Brigham, of Brookline,
manager.
	CLARA BARTON, president of the Red
Cross Society, who was in Galveston, Texas,
to look after the distribution of relief sup-
plies, was suddenly stricken down and is
seriously ill. The physicians were impera-
tive in their orders that she leave for her
home in Washington immediately. She
was taken ill at her rooms in Tremont
Hotel with her staff of nine gathered to-
gether. Miss Barton had just completed an
outline of her work, assigning each mem-
ber of her staff a particular part of the work.
	MISS CLARA BARTON was honored in a
special manner at the reunion of the Grand
Army of the Republic in Chicago. Her
work at the head of the National American
Red Cross has made her name a loved one
among the old soldiers, and they delight in
giving her extraordinary marks of their
appreciation of her services. Miss Barton
was invited to address the Convention which
she did in a stirring speech, which was
loudly applauded. Almost every sentence
evoked a demonstration of some sort.
	The struggles of the Cuban teachers at
the Harvard summer school to learn Eng-
lish furnishes good stories for the Boston
papers. The “Listener” of the Transcript
tells the following:
	One day the teachers were invited to some sort
of an evening function at the Longfellow house on
Battle Street. It happened that shortly before the
hour for the assembly some ladies who were in
front of that house were politely approached by a
group of male Cuban teachers, who, with their
hats in their hands, stood bowing.
	“If you please, dear madams,” said their spokes-
man, “we are invited at this house tonight. We
wish to attend. We were been on an excursion to
the distance, and have not the time to go to our
houses, so that we wear, as you see, our day
dress. Perhaps you can tell us if it would be per-
mitted to us to go to the reception in our day dress?
If it would not, then certainly shall we take the
time to go to our houses and put on our night
dress!”
	The ladies assured them that they would do
much better to go as they were than to put on their
night dress, and they bowed gravely and gratefully
and withdrew.


