[Column 1]
especially the Woolleys of Kanab, Can-
nons and Brooks of St. George.
	The Local Council of Minneapolis also
gave a reception to the officers, delegates
and members of the National Council on
Thursday afternoon at half past three, in
the parlors of the West Hotel, the Coun-
cil’s headquarters. Mrs. Higbee, the
president of the Council, was hostess. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, the president
of the International Council, was
present at this reception, but was obliged
to leave early for home. She, as well as
Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, always
shine in brilliant assemblies of this kind.
Both have great charms and dress with ex-
cellent taste. The writer imagines that one
would know at a glance that Mrs. Gaffney
lived in the City of New York, both by her
dress and manners. Dr. Kate Waller
Barrett, although always in the black garb
of her calling, is a woman of the South, one
must know it by her Southern polish and
attraction. She carries the unmistakable
stamp both in manner and speech. Bril-
liant, witty and emotional and a wonderful
speaker. Rev. Annie Garlin Spencer is
another type with all the collegiate graces of
manner and correctness of language. Her
gray costume might make one suspect her
a Quaker, and she comes from Providence,
Rhodelsland; but instead of Puritianism she
holds most broad and liberal views on
religious questions and all others. Then
we have Mrs.Solomon, a pronounced Jewish
type, but with the grand and lofty aspira-
tions of the tribe of Judah concerning her
people, interested in all that makes for their
advancement, but especially in religion and
the Bible, a woman of strong character.
	Though, as our readers know, we are not
given to describing costumes, yet while
mentioning others Mrs. McCune, of our
own city, might with all due propriety be
spoken of, because she wore an elegant Paris
gown of black lace which suited her style
remarkably well, and was sufficiently con-
spicuous for the writer to observe, even
among so many elegant dresses.
	Mrs. Peck, the Vice-President, was not
able to be present, but there were presidents
and delegates from many of the National
organizations belonging to the Council,
some of whom we knew well and others we
had not known heretofore. Mrs. Mary
Newbury Adams, of Iowa; Mrs. I. C.
Manchester, of Rhode Island; Mrs. [-]iske,
of Minneapolis; Mrs. Lillian E. Hollister,
of Michigan; Mrs. Emma R. Wallace, of
Chicago, and Mrs. Flo Jameson Miller, of
llinois. Miss Bower, of Detroit, and Mrs.
Terrell of Washington, D. C., were women
we had known previously,some of them for
many years. The new acquaintances we
met more familiarly were Mrs. Olds, of
Elyria, Ohio; Mrs. Woods, Quincy, Ill.;
Mrs. Glazier, of Ft. Madison, Iowa; Mrs.
Burns, of Michigan; Miss Mannering, of
Chicago; Mrs. Parry, who gave us a copy of
her poems, and Dr. Cora Smith Eaton, of
Minneapolis, a schoolfellow and fellow-
graduate of Miss Babcock’s, who was de-
lighted to see us because we knew her at
home in Salt Lake, and sent loving mes-
sages to her by us.
	There is not space to tell all the good
things about the women of the Council, but
we must mention one or two facts. First,
that Mrs. Gaffney is a fine presiding officer,
just and courteous to all, with unfailing
patience and always punctual and knows
how to economize time. Her opening ad-

[Column 2]
dress was a masterpiece and a great credit
to the Council, as was the welcome extended
by Mrs. Leach and Mrs. Tuttle, of Min-
neapolis, and also that of Mayor James
Gray of that city. The Mayor dwelt
much npon women influencing public senti-
ment and their work in education, and on
the school boards, etc. Certainly one of the
ablest speeches made during any of the open
meetings, was on Tuesday evening, by
Professor Maria Sanford, of the University
of Minnesota. She elaborated upon the
larger life with broader purposes, if men
and women would work together upon
practical matters in the home, the city, the
state, the country and the world. Gave
practical illustrations of what cnildren had
been induced to do in cleaning and beautify-
ing that city, etc, when sufficiently aroused
by means of prizes offered and such like in-
ducements.
	At the gathering extended by the Local
Council, as at all the others, we met many
beautiful women, one cannot even remem-
ber the names, but it was an exchange of
greetings between women of a great variety
of faiths and from all points of the compass.
Music of the choicest kind; and flags and
flowers in available places gladdened the eye
and enlivened the scene. In a gathering of
this sort one notes the many highly intel-
lectual faces that make the ocoasion more
attractive than aught else. Unexpectedly
one meets with kindred spirits, and here
we met one of the Wells family of Wethers-
field and Hartford, also one of the Whitneys
of New England.
	Very little time can be given to social
gatherings when the Council meets for
morning, afternoon and evening sessions.
There are meetings to be attended and work
to be accomplished as well as speeches and
reports to be listened to, if one keeps in
touch with the spirit of the Council. News-
paper women seemed to enter most heartily
into the real merits of the Council, and to
comprehend its highest ideals.
	The objects of the Council have been
furthered at this meeting and we may look
forward to hopeful suggestions from these
able women. A telegram received from
Miss Anthony said: “I send greetings to
my daughters of the most comprehensive
organization of women, and the one in
which I have the greatest hope.”


