	SISTER MARY ALMINA WATKINS.

	Sister Mary Almina Watkins passed from this
life April 29, 1900, after an illness of over six
months. She was the daughter of John and
Louisa Parker Hammond, and was borne at Ma-
lone, Franklin Co., New York, December 4, 1827.
She was baptized when a child, her parents having
embraced the Gospel in the early days of the
Church. They left their home and joined the
Kirtland company. Circumstances did not permit 
them to reach Nauvoo until 1842.
	There she was married to William S. Watkins
December 4, 1844. Together they enjoyed the
association of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his
brother, Hyrum, and passed through the sorrow
and persecution endured by the Saints at the time
of their martyrdom.
	In 1846 they left Nauvoo and in 1848 located near
Kanesville, Council Bluffs. Here they remained
until 1852 when they crossed the plains, arriving
in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 12, of that
year. Just a few days prior to entering the Salt
Lake valley, Sister Watkins gave birth to a daugh-
ter.
	Afterwards they located in Big Cottonwood in
what is known now as the Holliday settlement.
They moved from there to Brigham City in 1861,
at which place she resided until her death. She
was associated with the order of celestial marriage
and proved a faithful, loving helpmate to her hus-
band and family. Twelve children were born to
her, nine of whom were living at the time of her
death, and all of them are members of the Church.
	Sister Watkins served as a teacher in the Relief
Society of Brigham City from its first organization
until the city was divided into wards in 1868, she
was then chosen president of the 4th ward. This
position she held up to the time of her death, She
was always found faithful to her trust and was a
comfort and a help to those in sorrow or need. It
was always a delight to her to bear her testimony
to the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and
to tell of her life and good works to the young
people.
	The following resolutions were unanimously
adopted at a recent meeting of the Relief Society of
the 4th ward of Brigham City:

