		JANE THORN.

“Now, what are you writing, my Anna?”
	“I’m writing a letter, you see,
To give Mr, Santa a message
	About gifts he’ll bring unto me.
I’m tired of writing, dear grandma,
	And want to go out now and play.
So please read and seal up my letter,
	And post it right off today.”

Away flew the darling, and left me
	To wonder what message she’d send—
What gifts of all others she wanted,
	Dolls, books or money to spend?
Her mother peeped over my shoulder, 
	And read the queer writing with me,
Sure, never was sent such a letter
	On land or from over the sea.

‘Dear Santa,” it read, “please send me
	Some white satin and velvet clothes, 
With a train, and a ring and breastpin,
	And glasses to pinch on my nose,
Some pretty white hair like my grandma’s,
	In a switch to take off at night,
And teeth to take out in a tumbler,
	And earrings that sparkle bright.

I don’t mind a bustle and corset,
	Though grandma says they are bad,
But just send the prettiest bracelet
	That cannot make any one sad.
That’s all for this Christmas, dear Santa.”
	The letter was ended here.
The mother and I looked at each other,
	And into her eyes crept a tear.

“What weeds have we sown in the garden,
	Of this innocent baby’s heart?
With our frills, our trains and our jewels,
	We each must shoulder our part.
Instead of our virtues she copies
	Our vices and follies, you see;
This letter has come like a warning
	From God unto you and to me.”

“The mind of a child is a garden,
	In which God planted good seed,
But the weeds of the world soon choke them
	’Tis the care of a mother they need,
But mother forgets in the worry
	Of providing the clothes and food,
That something must grow in that garden,
	And evil grows faster than good.

“If we think and talk altogether
	Of the world, its joys and its cares,
What wonder our gardens grow nothing,
	Save thistles and thorns, and the tares.
Good seed grows only by culture,
	The weeds spring up in a night!
We two have neglected our duty,
	And evil to us has seemed right.

“Come, let us accept of our lesson,
	Put away from us vanities’ snares,
And into our lives crowd more closely, 
	Good thoughts, good deeds and good prayers.
Remember that teaching means talking,
	And setting examples true,
We must make our own lives the better.
	Then her’s will be beautiful, too.

“This Christmas must bring to us, daughter,
	The gift of a purer heart,
The desire to serve the Master
	By choosing a meeker part.
And thus will our Anna be blessed,
	And thus will her odd letter prove,
A message from Heaven to us-ward,
	Filled full with forgiving Love.


