WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			HUNTSVILLE R. S.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
of Huntsville, held at the Relief Society hall,
October 16, 1907. Conference convened at
10 o’clock a. m., Counselor Juliana Nielson
presiding. Singing. Prayer by Bishop
Renstrom.
	Emeline Bingham, president of the Mid-
dleton ward, reported the society as not very
flourishing on account of the small number
of sisters and sickness; said the sisters in
their ward were willing to work and do what
they could. President Shoop, Eden ward, gave
a good report of their society; said they held
meeting every week and had met with good
success; they were piecing quilts and doing
all they could to help the society. Presi-
dent Chard from Liberty ward felt pleased
to meet in conference with the sisters, they
had not held their meetings as she would
like on account of the people living so scat-
tered, but felt the busy time was over now
and that they would be able to hold their
meetings. Counselor Juliana Nielson of
Huntsville reported the society in good con-
dition, her greatest desire was that Sister
Eliza Tracy, the president, would soon gain
the strength she so much needed; that she
would soon be able to meet with her sisters
again; she felt the Lord was blessing Sister
Tracy in her affliction, and that He would
bless us in our affliction if we would do our
duty when we were able. Counselor Mary
Burrows felt pleased to be at the conference,
and felt the influence of the good spirit that
was present.
	Stake President Jane S. Richards felt
very pleased to be in our midst once more,
she felt that when we are sick if we have
been faithful in attending to our duties, that
the Lord would bless us in all our trials, en-
couraged the sisters to do their duty in every
respect so far as it is possible, and asked
the blessings of the Lord to be with each
and every one.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke of the last time
she was in Huntsville, and felt perfectly
satisfied with the sisters, was glad to hear
their humble testimony; she felt they were
trying to do their duty, spoke of the noble
work being done by the Relief Society
throughout the world, spoke of the work
Brother and Sister Penrose were accomplish-
ing in Europe, said they had organized 18
branches of the Relief Society and that the
good work would still continue.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff felt pleased
to meet with the sisters in Huntsville and
the neighboring wards; she was twenty years
of age when she first joined the Relief So-
ciety; said it had been taught to her since
her childhood, that her mother was indeed
a true Relief Society worker, although there
was none organized in her day, did not feel
to speak long on account of having a bad
cold.
	Sister Emily S. Richards felt pleased to
meet with all, felt that in such a beautiful
valley one could live their religion where all
was peace and quietude away from the noise
of city life, asked the Spirit of the Lord to
be with us.
	After singing and benediction meeting ad-
journed until 1 o’clock p. m.
	A banquet was spread for all sisters in the
beautiful hall upstairs.
	Conference continued at 1 o’clock p. m.
After usual opening exercises Katheren
Grow was called to act as one of the trustees
in the Relief Society.
	Bishop A. P. Renstrom felt pleased to

[Column 2]
meet with the sisters in their conference,
said that as a member of the Bishopric he
felt the society was performing a great and
a noble work and it would be impossible to
get along without the aid of the sisters.
	Counselor Charles S. S. Wood felt there
were many of the sisters that could and
would speak to us and give to us the spiritual
food necessary for us to receive, felt the sis-
ters were doing their duty and that they were
being blessed in their labors.
	Elder Angus McKay felt to rejoice, enjoyed
the good spirit that was present, he only
wished the brethren enjoyed the same spirit
as do the sisters, said they were full of love,
good will and sympathy, there was nothing
that would bring the spirit of the Gospel like
the love and good will that the sisters pos-
sessed.
	Sister Lona Schade was pleased to be
present, spoke of President Richards’ long
and earnest labors, and was glad to bear her
testimony to the truth of the work.
	Counselor Emily M. Shurtliff was pleased
to hear the brothers speak words of encour-
agement to the sisters in regard to their
labors, said we could always show in our
actions love and kindness to each other;
urged the parents to have patience with their
boys and to teach them by love and kindness,
and she hoped the true love of the Gospel
would be in every heart.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt pleased to see a
full house, spoke of the pioneers at Winter
Quarters, the faithfulness of the Saints
and the gift of tongues, manifest at
that trying time; said how careful we
should be of the gifts of the Gospel and
of all sacred things.
	Eliza A. Tracy was sustained president
of the Relief Society of Huntsville, Juliana
Nielson first counselor, Mary Burrows sec-
ond counselor; Nicolena Sorensen, secretary;
Emma Tracy, assistant secretary; Grace Mc-
Farland, treasurer; Willimena McKay, Lona
Schade and Kathren Grow as trustees.
	President Richards felt it was time for us
to throw all frivolous things aside, spoke of
being kind to those that were afflicted and
to comfort the downcast and the sorrowful,
kindness costs nothing and is a great com-
fort to those who need it.
	Sister Emily S. Richards was thankful for
the privilege of saying a few words and for
the many gifts and blessings of the Gospel,
and asked that union and love might ever be
with us all as it is today.
	Sister Nellie Becraft felt pleased to be at
the conference and to bear her testimony to
all that had been said, spoke of our young
folks and the interest we should take in
them to keep them from going to places
where they ought not to go.
	Singing and then benediction offered by
Elder Stewart Eccles.
			EMMA TRACY, Asst. Sec’y.

