			December 6th, 1907.
		Mrs. E. B. Wells,
DEAR SISTER:
	I wish I could tell you how pleased I was
to receive a P. C. verses and papers from
you two weeks ago. Accept my heartfelt
thanks for such kind thought of me. I do
thoroughly enjoy every word of your excel-
lent paper. I wonder if the saints in Utah
realize how much it is to us out here to re-
ceive anything like that. What a grand
work the Relief Society must be doing and
as I read reports of the meetings and topics
taken I long to join you. I am hoping and
praying that the way will soon be opened
for us to go to Utah. I am rejoicing more
and more in our grand religion and the more
I read, study or think about it, the more
beautiful and perfect it seems to me, and oh,
how I wish I could tell others how I feel,
and why I know it is true; but I fail to make
them understand. As a Christian worker
for years past I have many friends, but not
one of them has any sympathy with my re-
ligion now. My dearest friend, the one who
has been help and comfort to me all my life,
nearly, is not interested enough to read any
Latter-day Saint paper or book. She says
she loves me the same and I have been used
to pouring out my whole heart to her and
now, feel a restraint in what is filling my
heart and mind. Such things are trials to
a sensitive nature; also what we hear said
about the Prophet Joseph and others. I
have been a Sunday School teacher in vari-
ous denominations, but to none of their creeds
could I place my whole heart or feel what I
feel now to our Church. The elders who
have labored in this district have been faith-
ful messengers, but so few take the trouble
to investigate for themselves. We regretted
Elder Geo. M. Cannon’s transfer to another
district. He is a noble character truly Christ-
like. We bid Elder Sheffield goodbye, last
month, and felt like parting from one of the
family. We shall never forget their good-
ness. They used to have a Bible-class with
us twice a month. At present there are no
elders in East London and just one member
beside those of this family; she is a good
woman, in humble circumstances; she is
desirous of going to Utah. I wish I had the
means to send her. Mother and I look for-
ward to the time when we shall have the
privilege and joy of attending conference and
listening to those inspiring discourses. I
love to read them. Another thing I love to
read are the meetings of “Daughters of Pio-
neers”. Oh, how grand it must be to be
one of them. I am a great reader and lover
of good books and literature. I have never
been able to gratify my desire to be the pos-
sessor of a library of good books. Before I
was ten years of age I had read a great
number of books. My father being fond of
reading. I learned when quite young to guide
and control my appetite for reading to choose
wholesome helpful books. I want now to
own all the church works, books and history,

[Column 2]
but cannot afford to buy any. I love poetry,
especially sacred poetry. Have you read
“Whitney’s Poem?” I would like to see the
book. I think it is called “Elias.” As a
child my ambition was to write stories and
books, but I left school when quite young,
and began to help my mother in the care of
a large family; being the eldest in a family of
twelve and you know where there are little
babies coming so often, how much work
there is for mother and big sister.
	I thank God for the patience He enabled
me to give to the little ones. It seemed a
hard discipline to me at times; I ever strove
to be a dutiful daughter and sister; was often
in prayer for help to be kind and loving.
Many times I wanted to be writing, or read-
ing and had to hold baby or cook. I often
think of the wonderful thoughts I used to
have while in the kitchen. I used to prop
my books open on the table to read or learn
pieces. I am very fond of children. I have
only one, a boy of ten. I have been living
with my mother and family since he was
twenty months old. He is a bright little
fellow, and I pray God to help me to bring
him up to be a true Latter-day Saint. It is
hard to train boys without a father’s help.
How beautiful it must be to have a good
husband. My dear father was so good and
mother misses his shielding care of her; he
was called away eight years ago, and, oh,
how we all miss him, he was such a good
father.
	We live on a farm 5 miles from the town.
A long drouth of six months has been very
trying to us; spring rains were witheld.
Three weeks ago copious rains began. The
dry brown aspect of the country is changed
to lovely green; all are busy, ploughing and
sowing, and all vegetation is growing and
though it is summer, it seems like spring.
Lovely wild flowers grow here, I have pres-
sed some on a card for you.
	Christmas will soon be here. I send greet-
ings to you and yours. We hope to have
three elders to spend christmas with us. I
will send you a piece for the EXPONENT if
you care to have one to print; it may interest
some of the sisters to hear about this part
of the world. My mother and brother join
me in loving gospel greetings to you. I hope
to meet you some day. Thanks for good
wishes expressed on your pretty card. Please
write to me soon and remember in your
prayers your sister in the gospel
