A PRETTY HOME WEDDING.

“How happy they! The happiest of their kind
Whom gentle fates unite, and in one fate
Their hearts, their fortunes, and their beings
	blend.”

	On Thursday morning, December 19,
1907, Richard Denton Andrew and Louise
Blanche Cannon, both of this city, were
united in marriage, President Joseph F.
Smith performing the ceremony in the Salt
Lake Temple at 11 a. m.
	The wedding reception was held at the
Cannon home at eight in the evening.
About two hundred invitations had been
issued and many guests responded by being
present. The rooms were artistically decor-
ated, the parlor with spring effect with pink
and white, the large bay window where the
bridal party stood was a complete bower of
apple blossoms in sprays and branches, a
trellis of the daintiest ribbons pink and
white and a lattice of green arching over
the recess. Carnations pink and white
about the room gave a dainty summer air
to the whole. The spacious dining room was
in Christmas red and green, twelve smaller
tables being arranged around a central one
having a large candelabra shaded in red for
a centrepiece, while sprays of holly were
strewn over the tables and bows of red rib-
bon completed the pretty and effective pic-
ture.
	The bride wore a gown of white net over
white silk, and carried a shower bouquet of
white roses, she appeared as dainty and
sweet as a slender white lily. The brides-
maids were her sister Miss Margarer Cannon
in pale pink and white and Miss Lucile
Wallace in pale blue and white, both the
girls carried sprays of pink and white carna-
tions. Mr. Bert Cooper was best man to
the young and bashful bridegroom. The
bridal couple received many beautiful and
some very elegant presents, for they were
great favorites with their numerous friends.
	The evening passed off very pleasantly
and when at the close of the festivities and
the guests were about to leave, the bride
threw her bouquet from the top of the stair-
case, there was considerable merriment over
the rush to be first to catch the bride roses.
Altogether the affair passed off like a charm.
	That the future life of this young couple
may be as happy and prosperous as their
fond parents and friends could wish, is the
desire and prayer of the writer.

“Love rules the court, the camp, the grove
And man below and saints above
For love is heaven, and heaven is love.”


