NOTES AND NEWS.
	A Congressional hearing on the petition
for a Sixteenth Amendment forbidding dis-
franchisement on account of sex will take
place at Washington on March 3rd. A re-
ception to the presidents of the State Suf-
frage Associations visiting Washington at
the time will be given at the Shoreham the
evening before. A meeting of the National
Business Committee will follow the hearing.
It will be held at the Rev. Anna H. Shaw’s
home in Moylan, Pa.
	Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett writes
from London that she thinks the statement
that the Primrose League passed a strong
resolution in favor of woman suffrage is an
error. She says: “The National Union of
Conservative Associations passed a woman
suffrage resolution at Birmingham, but this
is not the Primrose League.” A report that
the Primrose League had done so was cir-
culated in the American press and copied in
our columns. Apparently it was prema[-]ure.
	The engagement is announced of Nora
Stanton Blatch, granddaughter of Elizabeth
Cady Stanton and daughter of Mrs. Harriet
Stanton Blatch, to Dr. Lee De Forest, the
inventor. Miss Blatch graduated from the
civil engineering course at Cornell in 1905,
at the age of 21. She was the first woman
to enter that department at Cornell. She
distinguished herself during her junior year
while in camp doing field work by swim-
ming across Lake Seneca, a distance of a
mile, and a few days later by swimming
across Cayuga Lake at its widest part. She
graduated among the first five in a class of
seventy-five, and was elected to the honor
society, Sigma Psi.
	Of a distinguished educator who objects
to the predominence of women in the teach-
ing profession, an acute woman makes this
criticism: “At on time this man’s judg- 
ment on educational matters was worth
something; but he has been in educational
work so long, has studied the petty details
of his work so constantly, and has become
so narrowed by the prejudices of his calling
and by continually dealing with the smaller 
things of life, that his judgment is of very
little value at present.” There is something
well worth thinking over in the point of that 
criticism. The teaching profession, with its
excessive demands for concentration upon 
small things and its necessity for constant
adaptation to the needs of immature minds,
has so strong a tendency to weaken the
powers of generalization that educators
should never cease to guard themselves
against this debilitating influence.—The
Public.


