R. S. REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Lib-
erty stake Relief Society convened in the
Second Ward meeting house, December
6, 1907, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m., with Pres.
Annie S. Musser presiding. The soloists
for the morning session were Miss Claudia
Hoge and Miss Woolley.
	After the opening exercises, etc., Pres.
Musser made a few opening remarks and
feelingly welcomed the sisters, and very
favorable reports were made by the presi-
dents of the 9th, 31st and 33rd wards, after
which Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley deliv-
ered a lecture on Prayer, followed by Sister
Nibley, member of the General Board. El-
der Milando Pratt of the high council of
Liberty stake, and Sister Annie T. Hyde, of
the General Board, bore their testimony.
	After singing the doxology, and benedic-
tion by Sister Jessie West, conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock.
	Conference re-convened at 2 o’clock by
singing “O ye mountains high,” and prayer
by Sister Margaret Buchanan.
	Sister Harriet Harker, of the General
Board, gave us some timely instructions in
regard to our work, followed by a lecture on
Home, Wife and Mother, by Sister Emily
Davis, which was much enjoyed.
	Sister Annie K. Hardy, of the Ensign
stake, spoke to us for a short time, and
Miss Keddington rendered a solo.
	Elder Charles W. Symons, of the High
Council of Liberty stake, and Sister Peters,
of Salt Lake stake, urged us to be humble
and prayerful, and spoke words of comfort
to the Relief Society workers.
	A solo was then rendered by Mrs. Bessie
Browning.
	Pres. Musser made a few closing remarks,
thanking all who had helped to make our
conference a success.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Secretary.
		GRANITE STAKE.
	A program of unusual excellence char-
acterized the recent quarterly conference
of the Relief Society of Granite stake,
which was held in the stake taberna-
cle on December 10, 1907. We were fa-
vored with the presence of Sisters Bathshe-
ba W. Smith, Annie T. Hyde, Priscilla Jen-
nings, and Julina L. Smith, of the General
Board, and fourteen stake officers.
	An eloquent address on “The Blessings
of the Faithful” was given by Bishop J. D.
Cummings of Wilford ward. Two solos
were rendered by Sister Juliet C. Carter, and
some excellent remarks were made by some
of the visitors.
	The afternoon session was taken up by
the family of the late George A. Smith, in
continuation of the “Lives of Our Leaders.”
A biographical sketch of the life of George
A. Smith was read by his granddaughter,
Sister Irene Merrill Richards. Solo was
given by Sister Bessie Smith, Apostle John
Henry Smith paid an elegant tribute to the
memory of his father, said: Geo. A. Smith was
a worker—a man who was never overdone
or underdone in his duty; a man of energy
and sound judgment, absolutely fearless in
defending the right. An honest man, who
feared his God and none other, who believed
implicitly in the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, and who loved the
work of God more than all else—in short, a
Latter-day Saint.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith followed with
many interesting reminiscences of her hus-
band’s life and labors, and Sister Julina
L. Smith also paid a tribute to his memory.
	The singing was very good, and was led
by a choir composed of Relief Society chor-
isters and singers of the different wards of
the stake, under the direction of the stake
chorister.
	The attendance was excellent and all
went home feeling repaid for coming. It was
a day long to be remembered by all who
were present. 
	LUCY M. GREEN, Assistant Secretary.


