A WOMAN'S TESTIMONY.
Salina, Utah.
	Seeing a piece in the Exponent that asked
for the names of any who belonged to the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, will say that I be-
longed to that society.
	The first meeting I attended the prophet
was present and talked to us. He told us
what to do. We were not only to look after
the poor but he wanted us to canvas every
house for there was sin and false teaching
in our midst. “For this is a day of trial
and we shall be tried as gold is tried seven
times in the fire.”
	There was John C. Bennett and Law and
the Higbees and others all trying to lead the
youth away, and we found it so. They
were holding secret meetings in all parts of
the city, saying it was the prophet’s teach-
ings.
	When I think of being there in those days
I cannot believe myself. Brother Joseph,
the prophet, was tried to the quick. He
taught us to look after the sick, and wanted
the poor looked after, and if they were able
to work, to give them work and pay them
for it, and not buy material and make it up
for them, if they were able to do the
work themselves. He said the poor we
will always have with us and it was not our
business to know how they came to be poor.
We were told to do our duties and we would
be blessed. He said it was no charity to do
for those who could do for themselves. We
were not to neglect the sick or any one in
distress.
	The prophet was a noble-minded man. I
would know his voice in the hour of mid-
night. I was at the last public meeting
that he ever preached and the rain poured
down, He said if it rained pitchforks, tines
downward he would preach, his enemies had
said that he should never preach again, and
he wanted to make them false prophets.
This meeting was held in a grove a few days
before his death.
	I was one of the sick that the prophet
visited on the banks of the river.
	I was one of the women in the battle of
Nauvoo. I passed through many scenes,
and still I am here for a wise purpose, I
hope. I want to do all the good I can and
as little harm as possible.
	I was born in Pennsylvania Sept. 5th,
1822. Married to Levi Nickersen May 10th,
1840, in Nauvoo. Came to Utah in 1850.
	In 1852 my husband was called on a mis-
sion. His name was overlooked. He went
to the president’s office aud was told if the
boys who went with the mail were going, he
(my husband) could go, but he could not
go alone. On the first of November they
started with twenty ponies.
	When they arrived at Sweet Water a bliz-
zard came and scattered their ponies. The
men hunted for their ponies and found
three. During the hunt for the ponies one
of the men got lost. The others hunted for
him, but were unsuccessful, as they were so
badly frozen themselves that they moved on.
When they reached the Bluff their feet were
so badly frozen that the bones were scraped.
My husband was unable to travel, so he
worked in a wagon shop. On December 15,
1853, he was found dead in the shop. He
was born in Pennsylvania, 1814.
	I remain as ever faithful and true to this
work and to this people. I sincerely know
it is true, and bear witness to the same.
May I ever prove faithful, is my prayer.
