AN P TAPH.
BY LENA GRISWOLD BROWNE.
Within a country churchyard small,
Where faded rose-leaves gently fall,
There lies a low and narrow mound,
Which children softly gather round,
And strangers trace the well-worn path
To read this sweetest epitaph:
“Below, the body of a child we lay,
Of whom her playmates often say,
(A tender girl, to heart and memory dear)
’Twas easier to be good when she was here.”
I cannot tell how long has been her rest,
Since first the rose-leaves fell upon her breast,
Nor paint the picture of her form and face,
Or tell the name of this sweet child of grace;
I only read this witness, quaint and rare
“’Twas easier to be good when she was there”
As pilgrims in a strange and unknown way
Pause at some holy shrine to kneel and pray,
So here I bow, this prayer upon my lip—
“Grant me this seal of Christ’s discipleship,
That for some soul the way was made less
	drear,
And easier to be good, when I was here.”
O brother mine, with all thy wealth and power,
Which after all but answer one brief hour,
’Twere better that thou rest without a name.
Thy deeds unknown to all but household fame,
If but a child shall whisper o’er thy bier,
“’Twas easier to be good when he was here!”


[Column 1]
	OUR DARLING MARIAN.
	The memory of this beautiful little girl
will endure with those who knew and loved
her as long as life shall last; the sorrow of
her departure from among us has stricken
the breasts of those nearest and dearest in
the home of which she was one of the choic-
est treasures,
	The verses we use in connection with this
notice of Marian seem very appropriate to
her, She was good, and one of the choice
spirits sent from above to bless and happify
those unto whom she came, and never was
a child more welcome. Her parents and
grandparents almost idolized her as a baby.
Nothing was ever too good for Marian, and
she grew from her infancy to be a distinct-
ive personality in the home. She was very
attractive and made friends everywhere she
went; her grandfather made a sort of com-
panion of her from her babyhood, as long
as he lived. Marian must go to gather
roses in the flower garden with him, and
the rarest flowers were for her; in fact,
all her short life it seemed but natural that
she should have the best and choicest of
everything, and she grew to be companion-
able to be both old and young. She was
fond of elderly people and paid them def-
erence that was noticeable. A foreign lady
artist, advanced in years, who only knew
the child casually, said of her, “she was the
most respectful to age of any child she had
seen in America.” Marian was naturally
religious; she loved Sunday School and
Primary, she was gifted one might say with
music that amounted to a passion, was
studious at school, reveled in story books,
and was fond of play and exercise; never
still, an uncommon child, in many ways
quaint and original, and even dramatic.
We had not thought of her dying, perhaps
because she was rather delicate and had
lived through several serious illnesses.
	Marian Buchholz was the daughter of C.
W. and Isabel Sears Buchholz, and the
grandchild of Hon. S. W. and Isabel M.
Whitney Sears, and was the eldest of three
children. She was born at the residence of
her grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Sears, in
East Waterloo, August 2, 1898. Her death
was the result of heart failure, while suffer-

[Column 2]
ing from quinsy and tonsilitis, and was very
sudden, She passed peacefully away at 8
o’clock on Saturday morning, December 14,
1907, aged nine years, four months and
twelve days. Her father was absent in
Bingham and had to receive the painful
news by telephone. The father’s family
reside in the east, so none of them could
be present at the funeral except a sister—
Miss Buchholz—who was here on a visit.
	The blow to the entire family was almost
unendurable, but great griefs, though seem-
ingly heart-breaking, have to be borne, and
though sorrows gather like great storms and
break upon us suddenly, they purify us, if
we will but submit to them, as the storms
purify the air. It is true that sorrow is
the noblest discipline; though our natures
shrink from it, it is none the less a dis-
cipline. Those who have suffered are like
those who know many languages—they
have learned to understand and to be under-
stood.
“There is no flock, however watched and tended,
	But one dead lamb is there;
There is no fireside, howso’er defended,
	But has one vacant chair.”
	Marian was dressed in the beautiful,
delicate things she loved, and in the
pure white casket looked angelic and fitted
for the divine presence. The last hymn
she sang for me, playing her own accom-
paniment on the piano, was, “O my Father”
now she has gone where she will join in
the sweetest music of the heavenly throng.
	The funeral services were held on Tues-
day, December 17, at the residence on 8th
East, in this city.
	Stake President Joseph S. Wells, uncle
of Mrs. Buchholz, presiding. The rooms
were literally embowered in flowers, gifts
of relatives and dear friends, as were all of
those who took part in the services. The
singers were H. G. Whitney, John D. Spen-
cer, Hattie Whitney Saville and Rettie Py-
per. The opening hymn was ‘‘Sweet and
low,” a touching prayer was offered by
Apostle Orson F. Whitney, and the speaker
was Elder Junius F. Wells, who drew in
the course of his remarks a vivid picture of
the Savior surrounded by the children
whom on one occasion. when visiting this
continent after His resurrection, He took in
His arms, one by one, and blessed. Elder
Wells portrayed the scene so clearly, that
one spiritually inclined could both see and
feel the transfiguration.
	Elder Horace S. Ensign sang as a solo
Marian’s favorite hymn, “O my Father.”
and Elder John Q. Cannon pronounced the
benediction. At the cemetery the singers
rendered “Beautiful Land of Somewhere,”
and Elder Joseph S. Wells dedicated the
grave, which was lined with lovely flowers
and covered afterwards with those sweet
mementoes of love—a last tribute of sincere
affection to one who dearly loved the beau-
tifui in nature and in art.		E. B. W.


