CONTENTS.
										PAGE
L. D. S. Women of the Past. Personal Im-
	pressions................Emmeline B. Wells		49
Letter from California..Sarah Jenne Cannon		51
A Woman's Testimony..Mary Ann Nickerson		51
Relief Society Reports:—Oneida Stake.......		50
	Interesting Conference in Arizona.......		55
	Morgan Stake—Alpine Stake...............		55
In Memoriam..........................Nellie Becraft		52
Floating Down the Rhine...........................
	...........................Romania B. Penrose		53
In Memoriam.............................................		55
Resolutions of Respect.................................		55
Notes and News...........................................		56
Editorial:—An Artistic Booklet—Relief So-
	ciety Annual Day—The Jubilee Box...		52
	Jottings.............................................		52
	Editorial Note....................................		55
Poetry:—Rays..................................E. R. S.		49
	The Things That Count..Clarence Urmy	50
	To Aunt Em............Josephine Spencer		51


RAYS.
One single ray this Sabbath day
Across my dreary pathway fell.
It passed away in shadows grey
Before its glory I could tell.
So many days unto my gaze
The sky but cloud and mist hath shown,
Enwrapping earth in dark’ning haze—
Ah! even thought hath sombre grown.

’Tis hard to bear so small a share
Of life's great joys and sunny things,
To be oppressed with doubt and care,
While pleasures seem to flit on wings;
To yearn for power to learn each hour
Some useful lesson for this life,
While fame and wealth on others shower,
Without so much of weary strife.

’Tis sad to rove away from love,
Through what it seems fates stern decree,
To hear no more as oft before
Sweet frindship’s voices calling me
To feel the bliss of loving kiss
Upon my aching, throbbing brow—
The clasp of hands—Oh how I miss
A soothing presence with me now.

Yet while I pray for strength this day— 
Just as that beaming sunbeam fell: 
A brilliant ray lights up my way
The power of our God to tell;
A cheering thought by angels brought
Makes clear the troubled turbid stream,
A blessed truth divinely taught—
I know it is no fleeting dream!
 
For just so sure as I endure
In patience—cease to cry aloud—
My Father’s promises most pure
Dispels the fog, removes each cloud,
True joys reveal, which make me feel
That all I bear is grand and just;
Faith’s, bursting ray He will reveal,
Oh blessed balm of hope and trust!
							E. R. S<hipp>


[Column 1]
L. D. S. WOMEN OF THE PAST.
PERSONAL IMPRESSIONS,
BY EMMELINE B. WELLS.
	To begin a series of remembrances of
eminent women, who have been conspicuous
in Church history, one must first mention
Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet Joseph
Smith. This article is not to be life sketches
but, as stated, only personalities from the
writer’s point of view. That Lucy Smith

[Column 2]
was a strong character is self-evident from
her own picture. She was everywhere rec-
ognized among the Saints as a remarkable
personage. A woman whose soul shone out
of her eyes, and who uttered wise sayings.
It was considered a privilege to call upon
her, and one felt in her presence a sort of
unusual reverence. To me she seemed what 
she really was, the mother of great men.
She possessed a very good gift of language
to express her ideas, and did not hesitate to
speak somewhat authoritatively. The peo-
ple paid her homage wherever she went and
quoted her wise sayings. She impressed me
as a woman of great power and force of
character. She seemed to be by nature en-
dowed with the rare gifts of prophecy, bless-
ing the sisters and healing the sick, as
well as giving spiritual comfort and conso-
lation to the sorrowing and afflicted. Lucy
Smith was born in Gilson, Cheshire Co.,
New Hampshire, July 8, 1776, and died in
Nauvoo, Illinois, May 5, 1855.
	The wife of the Prophet Joseph must be
next in order of early Church women. She
was a woman of great prominence among
the people: large and well proportioned, of
splendid physique, dark complexion, with
piercing eyes that seemingly looked one
through; noble in appearance and bearing
and certainly favored of the Lord, who called
upon her to prepare the first Hymn Book of
the Latter-day Saints, and by revelation
styled her the “Elect Lady.”
	Sister Emma was benevolent and hospit-
able; she drew around her a large circle of
friends, who were like good comrades. She
was motherly in her nature to young people,
always had a houseful to entertain or be en-
tertained. She was very high-spirited and
the brethren and sisters paid her great re-
spect. Emma was a great solace to her hus-
band in all his persecutions and the severe
ordeals through which he passed; she was
always ready to encourage and comfort him,
devoted to his interests, and was constantly
by him whenever it was possible. She was
a queen in her home, so to speak, and be-
loved by the people, who were many of them
indebted to her for favors and kindnesses.
	Emma Smith was fond of horses and
could manage them well in riding or driv-
ing. Many can recall seeing her mounted
on horseback beside her husband in military
parade and a grander couple could nowhere
be found. She always dressed becomingly,
and a riding costume showed off her shapely
figure to the best advantage. She was a
woman of commanding presence and in her
palmy days, a brilliant conversationalist.
Born in Harmony, Susquehanna, Co., Penn.,
July 10, 1804; died in Nauvoo, Illinois, April
30, 1879.
	It is difficult to choose of many great
women who should be mentioned next, but
to me it seems most in keeping with the
idea I have in writing this series, to take
Elizabeth Ann Whitney. She, too, like
Lucy and Emma Smith, stands somewhat
aloof from many grand woman of her day,
because of her great spirituality and attrac-
tive personality, a woman possessed of rare
charms in voice and manner. A natural
lady with the intuition and tactfulness that

[Column 3]
surpass accomplishments or adornments of
person. Sister Whitney was a notable char-
acter in Church affairs, a woman who in-
spired confidence, and both brethren and
sisters came to her for counsel and com-
fort.
	In the days of Kirtland she gave much
to the poorer Saints in such a delicate way
as not to offend the most sensitive. She
was intimately associated with Sister
Emma, of whom she always spoke in the
highest terms of praise for her good works.
	Sister Whitney excelled in singing the
songs of Zion, her voice was full of melody,
rich in tone, and she warbled like a bird
on the high notes.
	She was frequently alluded to by her
friends in the early days, as the “Mormon”
nightingale; her voice was sweet and tender
and true, exquisitely so, and though not a
woman of style and fashion, she was a
graceful dancer of the old-type, and a
woman who shone in a ball room or large
gathering of what is termed the best society;
and was never at a loss or ill at ease in any
company; at all times womanly and attrac-
tive, what she did and what she said was
the “proper” thing, A woman who could
grace a lowly cottage or a splendid man-
sion, yet spiritual in the finest sense of the
word and in so beautiful a way that it char-
acterized her whole life and shed around
her a radiant atmosphere of love and peace.
Elizabeth Ann Whitney was born in Derby,
New Haven Co., Conn., December 26, 1800.
Died in Salt Lake City, Utah, February 1,
1882.
	The names of two or three great women
are often associated together, and in early
days in Utah, Sister Whitney and Sister
Eliza were spoken of almost unavoidably, as
it were, in the same breath; yet they were
very unlike, Sister Eliza Roxie Snow was a
most remarkable character, as were many of
the pioneer women in the Church of Latter-
day Saints, but she was something more
than even that. She was a woman of fine edu-
cation and attainments intellectually, and
gifted in various ways with unusual ability.
A very pattern of neatness and order in all
pertaining to herself and her work,one of the
“old school” of proper manners and behav-
ior.
	Everything she did was of the best, wheth-
er it was braiding straw, making lace, em-
broidering lace, muslin or silk, sewing, knit-
ting and mending, all must be done to per-
fection, and she always used the finest ma-
terial possible to procure. Punctuality was
one of her virtues, and she insisted upon it
in others; industrious beyond her physical
strength, and economical in all matters,
whether of money, time or means; she was a
very early riser, often remarking, “one hour
in the morning is worth two in the evening.”
Sister Eliza was the Puritan type in the ex-
treme; religious in temperament and by in-
heritance. No half-way measures, “Hew
to the line and to the plummet” with her
—an old saying originated from the script-
ure quotation, “Judgment also will I lay to
the line and righteousness to the plummet”
(Isaiah 28, 17). Her endurance of fatigue
in traveling, or of all kinds of hardship was


[Column 1]
wonderful, her courage in danger and passing
through trials and difficulties, never wavered,
no matter how insurmmountable the obsta-
cles to be overcome might appear; she was
always equal to every emergency whatever
the occasion called for or required.
	Sister Eliza was so highly gifted in poetic
verse and composition, her language so elo-
quent, and subjects so lofty, that she deserv-
edly won the beautiful title of “Zion’s Poe-
less,” and as such stands pre-eminent among
this people. Her poetic style has been said
to be Hebraic, and she herself was not un-
like the Jewish type in appearance. She
possessed an innate refinement, and delicacy
of feeling and gentility of manner that fitted
her for any society even among royalty: in
conversation she chose the loftiest themes
when she was in company with congenial
spirits who loved sacred subjects.
	Sister Eliza R. Snow was a born leader,
and one might say a general, a commander,
and was also a very efficient organizer of
which her work along those lines is proof
positive and needs no verifying, Her extra-
ordinary powers and strength of character
and firmly established convictions of the
principles of the Gospel gave her the confi-
dence and assurance, if one may use the
term, to act independently in places, and at
times, when other women would have falter-
ed or hesitated to undertake such heroic ef-
forts. That she was a woman of destiny the
writer has no doubt. Her great reverence for
the priesthood and absolute devotion to the
principles of the Everlasting Gospel amount-
ed to a consecration of all her time, talents,
and life itself upon the altar of her faith.
	Born in Becket Berkshire Co., Mass.,
Jan. 21, 1804. Died in Salt Lake City,
Utah, December 5, 1887.
	One more woman, whose name was once
known throughout all Israel, and who in all
the womanly qualities that make up the sum
of human happiness in home life and who
should be mentioned, among the very first
of the grand and noble sisterhood of early
days in the Church, is Vilate Murray Kim-
ball. She was a woman primarily devoted
to home and its best interests, but with a
heart large and tender enough to feel for the
woes of all within the sphere of her activi-
ities; a woman of unbounded charity, not
only for the needy and unfortunate, but for
the weak and erring. She never failed to
minister to the distressed whether temporal
or spiritual help was needed, and seemingly
she always had the necessary supplies. She
was in every sense of the word the “Lady
Bountiful.” Her intense sympathy with all
suffering and compassion for the unfortun-
ate was in constant exercise; and the calls
made upon her time and strength as well as
to furnish actual provision in times of scar-
city, can never be estimated, even by those
who knew her best. She was so modest
and discreet withal, that only those who were
near her, ever comprehended, the almost
superhuman efforts she made to alleviate
distress, and comfort the sorrowing and
broken hearted, especially those bereft of
loved ones, widows and orphan children.
	Sister Vilate Kimball was a true mother
in Israel in its broadest and best sense. She
was intensely devotional and religious in
character, and her faith was founded upon
“the rock of ages.” Naturally a woman
gifted intellectually, but though she was
poetic in temperament and sentimental, her
life was too full of activity in the routine of
family and friends, as well as those who
clung to her for the positive needs of every-

[Column 2]
day life, that she had no moments to herself
even to spare for what her nature craved. Her
letters to her husband, Heber C. Kimball,
when away from home are rich in the lang-
uage of the heart and reveal the gift of poesy,
latent in her soul.
	Thinking of “Aunt Vilate” as I knew her
should describe her as a bearer of burdens,
laden down with the burdens of others.
	Sister Vilate Kimball was beautiful, tall
and graceful, with fair complexion and fine
hair that lay in soft waves about her fore-
head giving a touch of elegance to her shape-
ly head. She fed the hungry, she clothed
the needy, she comforted her husband in all
his trials throughout his long public career.
A model, housekeeper and homemaker, a
loyal friend to women, ready to hear their
grievances and keep sacredly their confiden-
ces. She was a strength to the daughters of
Zion in her own household, and elsewhere.
If of any woman we may use the saying of
Solomon in Proverbs xxxi. chapter and 29th
verse we may say it of Vilate Murray Kim-
ball “Many daughters haye done virtuously
but thou excellest them all.”
	Born in Florida, Montgomery Co., New
York, June 1, 1806. Died in Salt Lake City,
October 22, 1867.


