BY CLARENCE URMY.

Not what we have, but what we use;
Not what we see, but what we choose—
These are the things that mar or bless
The sum of human happiness.

The things near by, not things afar:
Not what we seem, but what we are—
These are the things that make or break,
That gives the heart its joy or ache.

Not what seems fair, but what is true;
Not what we dream, but good we do—
These are the things that shine like gems,
Like stars, in Fortune’s diadems.

Not as we take, but as we give;
Not as we pray, but as we live—
These are the things that make for peace,
Both now and after Time shall cease.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORT.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of Oneida Stake
convened Nov. 2, 1907, at Preston. First
session was an officer’s meeting. Devotion-
al exercises were held with the priesthood
and other Stake officers. When convened
for regular work President Louisa B. Ben-
son presided.
	First Counselor Hannah Mickleson re-
ported the General Relief Society Confer-
ence held in Salt Lake October 3, 1907.
	Local officers were asked to report briefly
on Unity and Mothers’ Work and means
adopted to replenish treasuries.
	Franklin ward had sent a written report
showing unity, success in Mother’s Work,
plenty of means on hand, by donations.
	Clifton reported meetings held monthly,
not much accomplished yet in Mother’s
Work, hoped from now on to have better
success. A fair had been held to remuner-
ate the treasury, unity existed. Cedar-
ville meetings had not been held reg-
ularly—otherwise doing well, donations for
sufficient means.
	Cherryville reported as just having been
organized.
	Fairview sisters were united, much good
resulting from Mothers’ Work, plenty of

[Column 2]
means on hand, but contemplated a bazar
for the winter Glendale reported unity and
love, Mother’s Work getting well started,
means gathered by donation. Mapleton, no
officers present prepared to report. Mink
Creek reported good being accomplished in
Mother’s Work, unity existing and means
being raised by a fair, also by donation.
Oxford reported unity, means gathered by
donation, had also held a fair, Mothers’
Work somewhat neglected but doing better
at present. Preston first ward reported
unity, means gathered by donation, Moth-
ers’ Work accomplishing much good, attend-
ance not as good as usual.
	Preston third and fourth wards gave simi-
lar reports. Riverdale reported that their
work was not as good as they would like.
Rule had been adopted for each one to do-
nate 10cts at the close of meeting held first
week in each month.
	Swan Lake had just been reorganized.
	Treasureton reported few in number but
good work being done; no poor; had pur-
chased sacrament service and carpet for
meeting house.
	Weston not fully organized due to death,
unity existed, Mothers’ Work doing much
good, means gathered by donation, quilts on
hand. Whitney reported unity, success in
Mothers’ Work, means gathered by dona-
tion.
	Counselor Lucy D. Parkinson gave a talk
on Morality and the care of children, which
was much enjoyed by all.
	Instructions regarding teachers and the
use of means were given by President Ben-
son, also asked secretaries to be prompt with
their reports.
	Afternoon session, President Louisa B.
Benson presiding. Singing by Fairview
choir. Prayer, singing and other exercises.
	The Relief Society Stake report was given
by President Benson. All parts fully organ-
zed, excepting Weston, where death had
claimed the President, but work was being
well cared for. Much good was being done
by the several organizations and stake offic-
ers were encouraged at all being willing to
respond to every call, although better work
was still hoped for.
	A talk on what it takes to make a good
Relief Society was given by Esther Rogers,
president of first ward of Preston. Solo “I’ll
do what you want me to do, dear Lord,”
Serge B. Benson.
	Last poem of Brother H. W. Naisbitt en-
titled “Mother,” read from the Exponent by
Mrs. Junius Jensen. Sister Mary Hawkes
spoke on the power of Relief Society work,
emphasizing Mothers’ Work. A sketch of
the life of Harriet Henderson of Clifton was
read by the secretary. A quartette was then
rendered by Patterson, Griffith and Co.,
President Parkinson addressed the confer-
ence on the the subject of “Motherhood.”
Encouraged and blessed the mothers. In-
strumental music George Dalley,
	A volume of blessings given by President
Bathsheba Smith to her Relief Society sis-
ters was read by the secretary.
	Choir and congregation sang “Guide us, 
O Thou Great Jehovah.” Conference ad-
journed for six months. Benediction Presi-
dent Chas. D. Goslind.
