EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Sometime about the middle of this month
(February) Brother Joseph Wilson of this
city brought some Eastern ladies to call at
this office in whom he thought we would be
particularly interested, because of the work
they were doing for destitute mothers and
children. It is needless to say that we
who are so actively engaged in the Relief
Society are always glad to know of simi-
lar work being done elsewhere. The ladies
were from Kansas City, Mo., and when
they informed us that the home they had
established was called “Joseph’s Home”
the name attracted immediate attention.
Mrs. Julia Anna Baker, who founded this
home for mothers and children who are
left stranded and helpless, has a most at-
tractive manner and is very prepossessing
in appearance, and in conversation. She
has a cultivated, pleasing voice, like one
accustomed to alleviating sorrow. The
facts stated here in regard to the Home
were of great interest and the work seems
of untold value. The ladies, two of them
are remaining here for a few days, and
the women of Salt Lake will have an op-
portunity to inquire into the benefits and
helpfulness of the home established by
Mrs. Baker, which strongly appeals to
women benevolently inclined and desirous
of rendering aid to young mothers with
little children, left dependent upon their
own exertions, with perhaps no experience
of the world and its besetments, and no
advisor, or suitable employment; perchance,
even without a dollar, or a place of shel-
ter. The writer recalls the magnificent


work done in a similar direction by Mrs.
Sarah Andrews Spencer of Washington D.
C., wherein she saved the lives of many
very young mothers and innocent babes.
Such women are public benefactors in a
very broad sense, and certainly humani-
tarians in heart and soul. Whoever saves
one precious life from pure motives is
worthy of commendation, and in these
days when divorces are frequent and de-
sertion of wives and little children has be-
come a matter of every day occurrence, if
there is “balm in Gilead” for young moth-
ers, a home for the little ones who are
unprotected and unprovided for, it is most
assuredly a source of satisfaction and to
know that there are women unselfish
enough to devote their lives to this grand
and noble service of tenderly caring for
mothers and children and keeping up the
home idea, instead of farming the children
out, and merging their identity into the
public, until they do not know their own
parentage, is a point to be emphasized, and
carefully considered.


