RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			MORGAN STAKE.
	The semi annual Relief Society conference
of the Morgan Stake was held in the Stake
house on Saturday, February 15, 1908.
	After opening exercises President Lydia
Rich welcomed them all to our meetings.
Reports were given from Morgan, Rich-
ville and Milton wards, that the work is
alive in their wards and doing pretty well.
	Bishop Giles of Milton encouraged all in
the work. A quartette was then beautifully
rendered by the Richville Society, given by
four of the elderly sisters, “Christ at the
Door.” A talk on “Hospitality” was given
by Secretary Annie W. Clark. A speech by
Sister Belle Butters.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p. m.
	The afternoon session convened with a
pretty good attendance of stake and ward
officers and members; also President Daniel
Heiner and a number of brethren; after
opening exercises “A Testimony” by Sister
Jane S. Richards was read. Counselor
Maryette Waldron gave good advice to
secretaries.
	Counselor M. J. Walsh made a few re-
marks. A recitation was given by Martha
Meacum, “An Address to the Sisters in
Zion;” a solo by Miss Benson, “Face to


[Column 1]
Face.” Sister Tilda Neilson Petersen gave
a Mother’s Talk, “Training Girls;” Coun-
selor William Francis of the Stake Presi-
dency made a few remarks. Choir sang an
anthem, after which Sister Ann Fry gave us
a short talk, referred to the noble life of
Sister Jane S. Richards. Counselor Mary-
ettee Waldron then presented the general
and local Relief Society officers, which were
sustained by vote.
	President Lydia Rich advised all to sup-
port Relief Society work better. It will
make good women better. There is too
much of the spirit of pleasure-seeking in
our day. We should avoid extremes.
Benediction by Brother John Rich.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
				ANNIE CLARK, Sec’y.
			ALPINE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine Stake was held at Ameri-
can Fork, January 17th, 1908. President
Rebecca Standring presiding.
	Meeting opened at 10 o’clock by singing
and prayer as usual. Roll call, with a good
response from stake and local officers. Min-
utes read, etc.
	President Standring was pleased to meet
the sisters in conference, and hoped that
this might prove a happy and prosperous
New Year to us. “There has been much
sickness amongst us during this winter,
many have been bereaved of their loved
ones, but the Lord knows best, and we
should asknowledge His hand in all our cir-
cumstances. God is watching our labors,
and He will reward us as we deserve.” De-
sired His blessings to rest upon us this day.
	The four wards of American Fork were
reported by the different presidents. The
reports were encouraging. A noble band of
sisters always on hand to do what is re-
required. The rich and poor and lonely are
visited and their wants supplied. The
“Mothers lessons” on faith are doing a good
work, just what is needed.
	Song, “Count Your Blessings,” American
Fork, first ward.
	President James H. Clarke spoke of the
progress being made by the sisters and the
wisdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith in or-
ganizing the Society. Only a few years ago
it was considered indelicate for a woman to
speak before the public, now the women of
the world are pushing to bring themselves
into recognition. Think of the few people
who accepted these principles in the begin-
ning, and see what has been aocomplished
in a short time. This has not been accom-
plished by the wisdom of the world, but by
the power of God; and this work is to con-
tinue to the end. never to be taken away
nor given to another people. Many leading
men had to be cut off from the Church in
early days. We cannot estimate the im-
portance of our children growing up imbued
with the principles of the Gospel. Every
member of the Church should be those who
can be depended upon, and we should be
proud of our association with this people.
We have not commenced to see the expan-
sion of this work.
	President Louisa Halliday reported Pleas-

[Column 2]
ant Grove, and President Christina War-
nick reported Manila both doing well, pros-
pering and united, love the work, enjoy the
lessons and also the little Gems from the B’s.
	Sister Sina Chapman felt to rejoice in this
meeting. Some think they cannot speak or
sing, but we know that our sisters are equal
to every task required of them. God is
pleased with our work. Where would we
have been had not the Prophet Joseph been
nspired to organize the women? The Lord
recognizes, these women. See the noble
band of young missionaries, male and fe-
male, now out in the world, taught by their
mothers. Riches cannot change us, the
Spirit of God guides us, and the Lord blesses
His daughters even in our administration
to our sick children. Prayed that the Lord
would continually bless our labors and His
Spirit guide us. 
	Closed with singing and benediction.
	A nice lunch was prepared and served by
the committee during the noon intermission,
and was partaken of by over 200 guests,
who all agreed that it was much better than
going out to dinner. It was also a good
time for old friends to see each other.
	Afternoon session: Conference reassem-
bled at 2 p. m., President Standring pre-
siding. Meeting commenced by singing,
prayer, etc.
	The four wards of Lehi were reported by
the presidents, also Alpine reported by
President Sarah Marsh. All gave encour-
aging reports. “They are united and trying
to do their duty, holding good meetings
with an increased attendance. All have
good granaries and are trying to fill them.
Are trying to serve the Lord and are thank-
ful for the blessings He bestows upon them.
	Song. “The Daughters of Zion are Friends
of the Poor,” American Fork, third ward.
	A short history of the Relief Society of
Alpine Stake from 1901 when it was first
organized to the present, was read by Stake
Counselor Annie C. Hindley. Song by the
first ward Primary officers, entitled, “A
Prayer.”
	President Stephen L. Chipman had been
satisfied with the reports given of the wards,
they had been very good. We should al-
ways report all that is good, and keep our
criticisms to ourselves. Admired the sing-
ing. We should all sing who can and all
say Amen to the prayer. No one asks for
a position in the Church, the nominations
come from the head, and then it is put be-
fore the body for approval. Spoke of tith-
ing. After the head authorities, the
Bishops are required to look over the names
of the non-tithe payers. Those who earn
nothing are not expected to pay tithing,
neither are missionaries. The good plan
would be for each sister to keep a little book
and enter all her small earnings so that she
can refer to that and know how much tith-
ing she owes the Church. Spoke of ex-
travagance in families. It looks like we
might have close times, and people should
be careful and live within their income.
Now is a good time to curtail our expenses,
to be economical in our living and dress.
Spoke of funerals, thought those of children
might be held at home. Let us be con-

[Column 3]
sistent. Sisters, stand together and do not
let a sentence escape your lips before your
children that would be detrimental to the
brethren and sisters who are over us.
Prayed the Lord to bless our labors.
	Bishop Warren B. Smith gave a few
words of advice to the sisters on retrench-
ment in our households. We should re-
strain our children from the evils that are
around us. They should go to meeting and
learn their duty and curtail their amuse-
ments. Prayed that we be dictated by the
Spirit of the Lord.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the
committee who had worked so hard to
make things pleasant for the sisters.
	After singing and prayer conference ad-
journed for three months.
