RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL DAY.

	The seventeenth of March will soon be
here and the Relief Society in all the world
will be celebrating the memorable occasion,
The Sixty-sixth anniversary should be an oc-
casion of much rejoicing and no doubt will
be, The very fact of its being organized
before any such movement for women had
been made anywhere, by any other people
or community should stand out as a way-
mark in favor of the Church of which we
are members. It should demonstrate clear-
ly to all honest hearted people, women
especially, that it was established by divine
revelation. The Prophet Joseph Smith,
without any pattern to follow, called women
and set them apart by authority given him
from the Lord.
	The women of Zion are favored of the
Lord above any women elsewhere, and they
should realize and appreciate it, and culti-
vate the gifts and blessings they are in pos-
session of, and thus seek to magnify their
calling. Think of the consecrated work
given into their hands, to minister to each
other, to edify and instruct, to study the
Bible and other sacred books, to obtain
knowledge through prayer by the aid of the
Holy Spirit.
	Taking the advantages of the work in the
broadest and highest sense, there is no limit
to the attainment of excellence in wisdom
and understanding. The active work of the
teachers in the organizations, is the work
our Satior loved to do when he tabernacled
in the flesh. He ministered to the meek
and lowly, the sick and distressed, in fact,
“He went about doing good.” Our sisters


have this privilege and they have joy in their
labors. They do not spare themselves, they
are unselfish, they are self sacrificing. Their
work cannot be estimated, they are un-
doubtedly fed with the bread of life, and
that buoys them up in times of need when
otherwise their strength might fail them.
	There are no words of commendation or
praise too good or too much for the sisters of
the Relief Society, who do these things in
love and with singleness of heart. Well
might they be called sisters of mercy. It is
ardently desired that this day be kept for
such enjoyment and festivities as seem ap-
propriate and fitting to those who preside.
it is sometimes thought that little has been
accomplished by the society during so many
years, but that is a mistaken idea; hundreds
and thousands have been fed, have been
ministered to in various ways. These acts
of love, deeds of kindness are not apparent
in the same way as building houses and
founding libraries and [-]aving grain, but
these count in the books of the angels, and
cannot we comprehend that our Father who
will not let a sparrow fall without His
notice, knows every little deed of kindness or
even a cup of cold water given in His name
to [-]he suffering ones.
	And so we say again, let all women rejoice
and give thanks on this day, whether in
feasting or in dancing, and remember espec-
ally those who are sick or in sorrow or in
trouble, and those who are kept at home
because of this or that, minister to them,
cheer and comfort them, and thus make
your own happiness more full and com-
plete.


