WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
FLOATING DOWN THE RHINE.
The Rhine, the Rhine, the beautiful Rhine.

	Durham House, 295, Edge Lane,
        			Liverpool, England.
					February 1908.
	The broad, deep, placid, blue river of ro-
mance and of most enchanting scenery,
	The shores on either side are dotted with

[Column 2]
towns and villages and castles,many old and
ruined, built in times of long ago, having
each a legend weird, romantic and myster-
ious. Many castles are built on the highest
pinnacle of a mountain, in the most inac-
cessible positions to enable them to with-
stand long sieges from hostile and preda-
tory neighbors. They are huge piles of tur-
reted towers and solid masonry which seem
to bid defiance to time and all men. They
are magnificent, grim and grand. Many are
in a complete state of ruin, through the de-
structive invasion of the French. Some are
inhabited in the safest parts aud all are in-
tensely interesting as landmarks in the his-
tory of a people long since dead. The view
is all too fleeting, sailing down on the bosom
of the lovely river. One desires to stop and
ramble through the deserted halls and ban-
quet rooms and revel in imagination of the
gay and beautiful women and heroic knights
who once trod in pride these wondrous struc-
tures. Renowned towns and villages came
in view at nearly every turn of the frequently
bending river, which has been the birthplace
of some never to be forgotten person or ex-
ploits of some ancient worthies. The river
winds majestically along, washing the feet
of high mountains, precipitous rocks and
rolling hills, for 730 miles down to the North
sea. The middle section for a little over
one hundred miles from Frankfort to Cologne
has the most rugged and mountainous scen-
ery. Many of the steep sides of mountains
and hills are planted to vineyards almost to
their very tops. They have to be terraced
before planting. The breaking up of this
ground has all to be done by hand, for no
animal or plow could work on the steep
places. This utilization of this kind of
ground could not be carried on in Utah,
where every vine has to have a streamlet of
water to it, or it will wither up and die. In
Rhineland every year is not a fruitful one on
account of drouth. A fruitful vintage is
only once in a while. They say the grapes
are not pleasant to eat, only good for wine.
We thought that we would like to taste the
renowned Rhine wine. I had about two
tablespoonfuls poured into my glass and
tasted—ugh—flat vinegar. A spoonful of
good vinegar, water and sugar, like my
mother often gave us in summer time with
our lunch, was much more to my taste. Per-
haps my taste is uncultivated, but they can
have their wine if they like it. This reminds
me of another difference in taste. At the
table where we sampled our wine, sat a fine
old German and his daughter. On a plate
there was some slices of moist, very black
rye bread. The German insisted I taste
this bread, saying it was the finest in the
world. I did, and thought I had taken a
quid of tobacco, it looked, smelled and
tasted like it, although I do not believe I
ever tasted tobacco.
	To describe at any length the scenes,
towns, castles, ruins and bridges noted and
renowned, places of history and interest, as
one passes them sailing down the river,
would make the article entirely too long.
So a short notice and a legend attached will
be all that can be done. We left Frankfort
on the Main and took a train to Biebrech, a
small town where we were to take the boat,
There were two trains leaving about the
same time to this village, one going into it
and the other going on down to the wharf.
Of course we took the wrong one, so we had
to walk, or trot, as we had not much time
to correct our mistake, and catch the boat.
But the walk of little over a mile was
through a fine park in which was a pretty


[Column 1]

old ruin, a hasty glimpse of which repaid us
for our walk. We arrived in time to go on a
boat named “Barbarossa.” It was a fine large
boat and had quite a number a passengers.
We had a book describing points as we came
to them and it kept us busy watching first one
side and then the other, so as not to miss
anything of note.
	Bingen, the chief town, in one of the divi-
ions of Hessland, is of very ancient origin,
was noted in Roman times. A bridge on
one side of it built over the river Nahe,
dates from 13 B. C. Burg Klopp, a castle
built in the center of the town, was built in
the enclosing wall of a Roman fort. The
French invaded the town and nearly de-
stroyed it and also the castle. Every one re-
members the pathetic song of “Bingen on the
Rhine,” in which a dying soldier sends his
last message to his bereaved mother. Pass-
ing Bingen you come in view of an interest-
ing castle, the Mansethurm, built on an
island in the river, but very near the shore.
It is merely a tower to which is attached the
legend that a miser, fearing there might
come a famine, filled the tower with wheat.
The famine did come, and he selfishly shut
himself up in his tower with his wheat and
was deaf to the distress of the people around
him. After a great while the tower was
broken open and it was found that the mice
had eaten up the wheat and the miser too.
	Nearly all of the legends are of the im-
possible, but that very fact and the mystery
veiling them is their principal charm. An-
other turn in the river, and we see a very
fine monument erected to commemorate the
victories of the German people and the rest-
oration of the German empire in 1870-1871.
It is 110 feet high, and the figure “German-
ia,” crowns it. On the substructure, which 
is 80 feet high, are the figures of Emperor
William I, and two hundred contemporary
kings and princes.
	We now come to a large, real castle,
Rheinstein, perched on an impregnable pre-
cipitous rock. Tower rises above tower,
grim, gray and ivy-covered, full of mystery,
and stories of love and sorrow, if the walls
could only speak. It has one legend of false
wooing. The Knight Siegfried von
Rheinstein, a warrior, during one of his pre-
datory excursions, captured a beautiful
maiden named Jutta and married her. He
ceased then his pillaging and carousing. In
time a little girl was born to them and Jutta
died. The little girl was named Gerda, who
grew to be so beautiful that suitors from far
and near sued for her love and hand. Her
heart was won by a neighboring knight
named Kuno von Riechenstein. It was the
custom of the times for young lovers to have
a mediator to conduct their suit, so they
chose Kurt von Ehrenfels, Kuno’s uncle.
But faithless to his nephew, he ingratiated
himself into the good graces of Gerda’s
father and gained his consent for himself.
No entreaty of the betrayed Gerda had any
effect with her father after he had given his
word, especially as the uncle was possessed
of great wealth and her lover of very little.
The wedding day dawned, and the festal
procession neared the Klemenkapelle,
where the marriage ceremony was to take
place, when a swarm of gadflies came out
of the bushes. One of them stung the silver
gray palfry of Gerda and it reared and
dashed out of the procession. Gerda
spurred it on, and the steed flew with her to
Reichenstien, the castle of her lover. Kurt,
the uncle, rode after her, but was thrown in
the pursuit and killed, also her father in try-
ing to stop the run away horse, was hurt, 

[Column 2]
but recovered and gave his blessing to the
lovers.
	The next interesting point is the “Lore-
lei,” a basalt rock rising out of the water
430 feet, almost perpendicularly. The river
here is said to be 75 feet deep—the greatest
depth in the river. It is the only place
where salmon is found. When the river is
low seven stones can be seen above the sur-
face. The legend of them is that they rep-
resent seven maidens, who were fickle and
hard hearted, and had deceived their lovers
and at the curse of the Lorelei were turned
to stone.
	The word Lorelei means in German the
“blustering rock,” or echo rock with us.
Standing below the rock twelve echoes can
be heard resounding from point to point.
Another legend more noted than the above
is that a beautiful (always beautiful) en-
chantress whose wonderful power lay in her
eyes, befooled so many men that she was
ordered shut up in a convent. On her way
there accompanied by a knight, as they
were riding up the Rhine they came to the
high rock. She begged the knight to allow
her to ascend the rock in order to view once
more the castle of her beloved. While gaz-
ing, in the distance she suddenly caught
sight of a ship bearing the colors of her
knight. Then she recognized the returning
loved one standing on the deck. In her
great joy she made a false step and fell
headlong into the deep river and was
drowned. A gale of wind dashed the ship
against the rock and upset it, and thus the
lovers were united in death. Mystery affirms
that from the 13th century a treasure has
been shut up in the rock Lorelei.
	Soon after rounding the sharp curve of
the river at Lorelei, we came in sight of
St. Goar, just above which rises the great
fortress Rheinfels. Some say it is the most
magnificent ruin on the Rhine. It was built
in 1255 and destroyed by the French in
1797. The ruins were sold in 1812 for
2,500 francs or $500.00 in American money.
This castle was built to endure for ages. Its
foundations were laid deep and strong and
were well nigh impregnable. Sixty Rhine
cities combined in vain in 1255 to lay seige
to it, the seige lasting one year and fourteen
weeks. In 1692 a French commander with
17,000 men attacked it with an equally
fruitless result. In 1758 it was treacherous-
ly delivered into the hands of the French
commander Marquis de Castries. The his-
tory of the ruthless destruction and desola-
tion in the German country by the French
explains the slumbering hate that raged in
the bosoms of the German nation which
burst forth in all its fury in the subsequent
war which despoiled France perhaps very
justly of a large slice of her possessions.
	Sailing around the sharpest curve of the
river we come in view of the pretty and an-
cient town of Boppard. It has many tow-
ers, two of the old Parish churches dating
from the beginning of the I2th and 13th
centuries. It has a hydropathic establish-
ment and a beautiful avenue extending for
more than a mile along the river. Passing
along reveling in the glory of the mountains
with vine and tree covered sides, we arrive
in view of the fine monument erected to the
memory of Emperor William I. It was un-
veiled in the presence of Emperor William
II, and many princes, August, 1897. We
next arrive at Coblentz, the chief town of
the Rhine province, said to be the most
beautifully located of all the large towns on
the Rhine. Its origin goes back to Roman
times. It is situated at the junction of the

[Column 3]

Moselle and Rhine rivers. One of its most
interesting places is the Kastorkirche. This
church is built in the form of a fine Roman-
esque Basilica, and dates from the end of the
12th century. It gets its name from a her-
mit of the 4th century, Kastor, whose bones
are said to be deposited in it. In the left
aisle is the monument erected in 1725 to the
saintly Rizza, who went every morning dry-
footed over the Rhine to worship in the 
Kastorkirche, so the legend runs.
	We now glide on past many interesting
places and come to Siebengebirge (seven
mountains) and the castle Drachenfels
(Dragon Rock). This name was a favorite
one for high mountain castles in the middle
ages. This one certainly deserves the name
as it forms the pinnacle of a very steep, in-
accessible mountain. The legend is that
Siegfried, a hero, visited the old Frankish
king Childerich in his vine covered castle
and found him sick and deserted. His
beautiful daughter Gunhild had been car-
ried away by a rejected suitor, Duke Hun-
old, who was  a magician, and placed her in a
cavern guarded by a huge dragon. King
Childerich offered in vain his throne to any
one who would rescue his daughter Gun-
hild. Thirty knights had already been de-
voured by the dragon in their attempt to 
rescue her. Siegfred, hearing the story, de-
clared himself ready for battle with the
monster. In the battle the monster swal-
lows his spear, which he thrusts into its
jaws, then he draws his famous sword, Bal-
mung, and with one terrible stroke of its in-
vincible blade lays the monster dead.
	The fetters of Gunhild are loosened in the
same instant, and Hunold’s soul is taken to 
hell. Unfortunately the usual sequel of
marriage and a long life of happiness does
not follow, for Siegfried is already betrothed
to a lovely woman. Lord Byron has im-
mortalized Drachenfels in one of his canto’s,
in Child Harold. One verse is as follows:

“The castle crag of Drachenfels
	Frowns o’er the wide and winding Rhine,
Whose breast of waters broadly swells,
	Between the banks which bear the vine,
And hills all rich with blossomed trees,
	And fields which promise corn and wine,
And scattered cities crowning these,
	Whose far white walls along them shine,
Have strew’d a scene which I should see,
	With double joy wert thou with me.’’

	We now come to Bonn, a pretty little
town and a wonderful bridge across the
Rhine. This town has the distinction  of
being the birthplace of the great musician
Ludwig von Beethoven. His father was
a tenor singer to the elector. On the Mun-
sterplatz stands a monument to his mem-
ory unveiled 1845. The Bonn Rhine Bridge
spoken of above is a magnificent piece of
engineering, its central span of 610 feet
being the second largest span in Europe.
	A little back from the river is a villa with
a cupola. This is the residence of the Im-
perial Princes while studying in Rome.
	We now soon arrive at Cologne, the end of
our never to be forgotten ride down the
Rhine.
	Cologne is the most important town of the
Rhine Province, though not the capital. It
was an important place on the Rhine in
Roman times, 38 B. C. The city is the seat
of an Archbishop and of a Governor.
	To it was intrusted in 1164 the preserva-
tion of the remains of the three Kings (the
Magi). This has caused pilgrims from all
parts of the earth continually to be drawn to
the city. The grandest and most amazing
structure in the city is the cathedral, called


The Dom. I have gazed upon and gone
into many cathedrals, but none excel this
to me. One can gaze with enraptured awe
standing in front of this amazing structure,
with its two towers 530 feet from the
ground, for hours without being weary or
feeling that half had been seen. From the
ground to the pinnacle it is most wonderfully
ornate. The history of its building is pa-
thetic in its long struggle to be finished.
	The foundation stone was laid in 1248.
It is of Gothic architecture designed by Ger-
hard yon Riehl. The choir was consecrated
in 1322 and the temporary wall with which
they enclosed it fn order to hold divine
services remained standing until 1863. It
was finally finished and on the 15th of Oct.,
1880, Emperor William I, surrounded by
the whole of the royal family and many of
the princes of Germany, laid the capstone of
this grand and noble building, thus this
sublimest monument of architectural skill
was completed. The interior is in keeping
in beauty with the exterior, the immense
fluted pillars and stained glass windows of
surpassing beauty enchain the admiration
of the beholder and cause one to feel that
the worshipers in such a delightful building
should have the light of true worship. We
attended a short service and came away
with sad hearts, having witnessed the mock-
ery of religion, and the darkness, ignorance,
and mystery that fills the hearts of the wor-
shipers. At the window of our room in the
hotel opposite the Dom I sat long gazing on 
this grand structure, and I wondered when
the mummery which is used in the name 
of religion would be stilled and the sublime 
structure dedicated to the true and liviag
God.
