			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our heavenly Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from our midst our
much esteemed and beloved president, Fanny L.
Harper, who departed this life on the 16th of Sep-
tember, 1907; and
	Whereas, our intimate association with her in
the performance of her duty as a president of the
Relief Society of Oakley Fourth ward, has so en-
deared her to us, that we feel it a duty and a
pleasure to express our appreciation of her labors
in our Society and of her earnest endeavor to do
right,of her integrity and faithfulness in the Gos-
pel of Jesus Christ.
	She was a devoted and loving helpmate to her
husband, a kind, tender and affectionate mother
to her children. Therefore,
	Be it resolved, that we, the members of the
Oakley Fourth Ward Relief Society, do most
deeply mourn the loss of so faithful a sister, but
are willing to acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in all things.
	Be it further resolved, that we extend our
heart felt sympathy to her husband and children
in their bereavement, and ask Him to bless and
comfort them in their hour of trouble and
	Be it further resolved, that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes, of our society, and a copy
given to the bereaved family of the deceased,and
a copy sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Louisa H. Hale, Margery A. Price, Fortbilda
I. Funk, Committee.


[Column 1]
“WHY A WOMAN SHOULD DESIRE TO
			BE A MORMON.”
			(Concluded.)
	(Written by special request and read at
Womens’ Clubs in New York.)

	Parley P. Pratt brought to Kirtland the
Gospel and also the Book of Mormon and
presented these truths to Sidney Rigdon,
who was also a Campbellite, and con-
verted him to the Gospel, as also many
others, notably Eliza R. Snow and her
brother Lorenzo, who were also members
of the Campbellite faith. Sidney Rigdon
was afterwards Counselor to Joseph
Smith, the Prophet, and Parley P. Pratt
and Lorenzo Snow became members of
the Quorum of Twelve Apostles. Loren-
zo Snow was at the time of his death,
October, 1901, President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Eliza
R. Snow, his sister, was a gifted poet and
is alluded to by “Mormons” and Gentiles
as “Zion’s Poetess.”
	One of her hymns has become famous

[Column 2]
in many lands and is quoted and sung in
other churches besides our own. We
distributed with our program of our meet
ing in the Woman’s Congress, at the Col-
umbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893,-
hundreds of copies of this poem. I in-
sert it here as giving you an idea of our
belief in a pre-existence, it is styled— 

