		LETTER FROM CALIFORNIA.

						Feb. 19, 1908.
My Dear Aunt Em Wells:

	If you have had time to think of me at all
you have probably wondered why I have
not written according to promise. As you

[Column 2]
know, my trip here was not altogether for
sight-seeing, and pleasure; though my
friends wish me to have a good time and
are doing all they can to have me enjoy
myself. It rained most of the time for three
weeks, but for a week now the weather has
been delightful. Mrs. Garnett, a lady I
met three years ago, took me to the Presi-
dia the other day. We went to the old
fortress built on the point, where the waters
of the Pacific and the bay meet. It was
indeed a grand sight, one never to be for-
gotten. It was the Golden Gate where the
fleet will pass through. There is a beauti-
ful reservation of sixteen hundred acres. My
friend asked me how far I thought we had
walked. I told her about a hundred miles.
We kept seeing things that were only a little
farther, you know. Another friend, a Mrs.
Eddy, took me to Golden Gate Park last
week. I enjoyed crossing the Bay, as I al-
ways do, very much indeed. The gulls
seem to have multiplied wonderfully since
my last visit. We took a car on the other
side and went on California St. through part
of the earthquake district, We passed the
place where once stood the elegant home of
Mrs. Stanford. The foundation remains
and some shrubbery and stone steps, that is
all. It reminded me of a deserted cemetery.
Many places we passed we saw tall chim-
neys standing, and the stone steps that once
led up to some grand mansion. As we were
on the cars we only caught a glimpse of
what there was to see. But my friend
pointed out the places of interest and is a
good hand to take charge of such a trip.
We went to the museum and conservatory.
The lawns are very beautiful, though only a
few months ago many refugees camped
there. No place in the park can you see the
unsightly sign “Keep off the grass.” We
had lunch on the part called the children’s
playground. Going back to the ferry we
took another street. I do not think the
papers ever told a tenth as bad as it really
was, for now, after two years and the won-
derful amount of work that has been done,
it looks dreadful. And I have heard more
of that terrible calamity than I ever saw in
the papers. Of course I had to go to the
Cliff house (or where it used to be) and
take a fond look at the ocean, Dear Sister
Sumner took me over to Oakland to church
once and to Relief Society once. Consider-
ing the members of the society, there was a
better attendance than at the general meet-
ing. There was a Mrs. Douglas at the soci-
ety meeting. She is a member of the re-
organized church, and I imagine a very
prominent one too. She called us sisters and
thinks it will not be long till we are united
with them. She bore a strong testimony to
the mission of Joseph Smith and the Book
of Mormon, and rejoices that the Smiths
have come to their own. She is thankful
that Joseph F. is at the head. I also bore
my testimony to the great work and to the
wise leaders the Church has always had.
Considering everything, the society is doing
as well as we could expect. Well I shall
have to stop sometime, and it might as well
be now. Give my love to Sister Smith and
the members of the board who are with you.

		Yours with much love,
