		AN INVOCATION.
	“O My Father, Thou that dwellest,
		In the high and glorious place;
	When shall I regain Thy presence
		And again behold Thy face?
	In Thy holy habitation,
		Did my spirit once reside?
	In my first primeval childhood
		Was I nurtured near Thy side?

	“For a wise and glorious purpose
		Thou hast placed me here on earth,
	And withheld the recollection
		Of my former friends and birth.
	Yet oftimes a secret something
		Whispered ‘You’re a stranger here;’
	And I felt that I had wandered
		From a more exalted sphere.

	“I had learned to call Thee Father
		Through the Spirit from on high;
	But, until the Key of Knowledge
		Was restored, I knew not why.
	In the heavens are parents single?
		No, the thought makes reason stare! 
	Truth is reason; truth eternal
		Tells me I’ve a mother there.

	“When f leave this frail existence,
		When I lay this mortal by
	Father, mother, may I meet you
		In your royal courts on high?
	Then at length when I’ve completed
		All you sent me forth to do
	With your mutual approbation
		Let me come and dwell with you.”

	There are many interesting incidents
connected with the women of the Church
that would answer the question asked in
the title of this paper, but it is not pos-
sible to elaborate in so little time, as we
must touch upon the marriage question
and the everlasting covenant.
	Marriage seems now the great question
of the age. At any rate, it is the woman’s
special subject, it is certainly one of the
reasons why a woman should desire to be
a Mormon. Marriage is a part of our re-
ligion, we believe in marriage, and mar-
riage for eternity as well as for time.
Every one who believes in the Bible must
know marriage was ordained of God; and
the first requirement made of Adam and
Eve, was to multiply and replenish the
earth, etc. It is useless to quote to intel-
ligent women that “Man is not without
the woman, nor the woman without the
man in the Lord.” The saying is pro-
verbial.
	We believe in the strictest morality
and purity of life in both men and women
equally. One standard of morals, not-
withstanding all that has been said of us
as a people to the contrary. Leaving all
that out of the question, we believe in
what is termed Celestial Marriage, the
ceremony to be performed by an Elder
in the Church holding the authority to
unite men and women in the bonds of
matrimony for time and all eternity; that
covenant we hold sacred; we expect not
only to dwell together here, but to dwell
together in the family relation hereafter
throughout all the endless ages of eter-
nity; and as we do not think there is any
other class of people on the earth holding
the priesthood of God, which is after the
order of Melchisedec except the Latter-
day Saints, if we expect to attain that ex-
altation in the eternal world, then we must


[Column 1]
abide in that faith called “Mormonism.”
	If you look at the seventh chapter of
Hebrews, you will perhaps understand
what I mean better. “For this Melchise-
dec, king of Salem, priest of the Most
High God, who met Abraham returning
from the slaughter of the kings and
blessed him. To whom also Abraham
gave a tenth part of all, first being by in-
terpretation King of Righteousness, and
after that also King of Salem, which is
King of Peace.”
	I cannot take time to enter further into
this order of marriage except to say that
through these covenants we hope to at-
tain to celestial glory in the world to
come, which hope encourages us to per-
severe that we may have our mansions,
not ethereal, but real, to dwell in, and
eventually attain to greater glory, going
on and on in greater progression, worlds
without end.
	That there is no stopping place for
those united thus, who magnify their
calling and make their election sure. In
1. Corinthians, chapter XV, verse 40:
“There are also celestial bodies and bod-
ies terrestrial; but the glory of the celes-
tial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial
is another.” In verse 41: “There is one
glory of the sun and another glory of the
moon, and another glory of the stars, for
one star differeth from another in glory.”
	Perhaps you may think from what I
have said that we go directly to the man-
sions of glory when we die, but I do not
mean that, but we pass from here to the
spirit world and await the morning of the
resurrection, when we shall all be judged
according to the deeds done in the body.
There are many passages in the Bible
which to me prove the resurrection when
our bodies which we have laid down will
be reunited with our spirits and we shall
be glorified and go on unto perfection.
	In this connection, perhaps, it would
be well to say one of the purposes of
building Temples is for sacred ordinances
pertaining to the dead. Do you recall
the passage of scripture, 1 Peter 3:19-20,
“By which also, (speaking of Christ) He
went and preached unto the spirits in
prison which sometime were disobedient,
when the long-suffering of God waited in
the days of Noah,” etc. Also refer to
1 Cor., 15, 29: “Else what shall they do
who are baptized for the dead, if the dead
rise not at all? Why are they then bap-
tized for the dead?”
	There is proof also in the prophecies
of the ancient prophets in regard to the
coming of Elijah. In the closing chapter
of the Old Testament, the Prophet Mala-
chi says’ “For behold the day cometh
that shall burn as an oven.” And in the
last two verses he says: “Behold, I will
send you Elijah the prophet, before the
coming of the great and dreadful day of
the Lord; and he shall turn the heart of
the fathers to the children, and the heart
of the children to their fathers, lest I
come and smite the earth with a curse.”
	We testify that Elijah came. He ap-
peared to Joseph the Seer and Oliver
Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, April 3,
1836, and he said to them, after repeating
the words of Malachi,” “The time has
fully come spoken by Malachi;” he also
said. “The keys of this dispensation are
committed into your hands.”
	As one evidence of the coming of Eli-
jah, the whole world, so to speak has
been gathering genealogical statistics for

[Column 2]
the last fifty years, proving conclusively
to the Latter-day Saints that the spirit of
Elijah is upon the people. though they
know it not. Family records have been
collected at great expense in some instan-
ces, and the labor has been arduous;
these records are of great value to our
people who are engaged in this work for
the dead. Many of those who have em-
braced the Gospel have been converted
through this one principle, that they
could do a vicarious work for those who
had died without a knowledge of the true
Gospel. Without our friends who have
passed away and not received the ordin-
ces of the Gospel, we could not be hap-
py. This is one of the most interesting
and astonishing principles revealed
through Joseph Smith, and I bear my
testimony to you that he was a prophet
of God, no man could have accomplished
what he did in so short a time except
through the divine teachings. If you
were to study Mormonism, the entire sub-
ject, you would see how much it contains
and one must acknowjedge, even though
prejudiced, that it is “a marvel and a
wonder.”
	Having said so much about the Gospel
and its principles, I desire now to tell
you of woman’s organized work in the
Church.
	The Relief Society, now incorporated
as the National Woman’s Relief Society
is, as you will know by its name, a chari-
table and philanthropic organization to
care for the needy, the sick, and unfor-
tunate, to minister spiritual consolation,
look after the morals of the community as
well and in a certain sense save souls.
	This great society has been and is a
wonderful power for good. more than I
can possibly tell you in a brief sketch.
It has been educational in the best sense
of the term to many thousands of women
gathered from different parts of the
world. It is this society that is affiliated
with the National Council of Women of
the United States. It has branches
wherever there are members of our
Church. It numbers more than 30,000
women, and is divided and subdivided in
such a way that it is comparatively easy
to reach all the members when necess-
sary. This Society was organized by
Joseph Smith himself in Nauvoo, Illinois,
March 17, 1842. We celebrated our jubi-
lee on the same date, 1892, all over the
world; that is in Europe and the islands
of the sea, Australia, Tasmania, New
South Wales, New Zealand, the Sand-
wich Islands, and also in Canada, and
Mexico as well as the United States. The
Society owns land, houses, granaries full
of wheat, and is not behind in spiritual
matters, faith is one of the foundation
principles of our religion, and we believe
in healing by the laying on of hands. The
sick are often healed by the administra-
tion of the sisters, but we take none of the
glory to ourselves, but give the Lord the
glory. This Society is presided over at
the head by five general officers and a
board of twenty-three women, including
the general officers. The officers are a
General President, two Vice-presidents, a
General Secretary and a General Treas-
urer. The society is divided into what
we term “stakes” an ecclesiastical term,
of these there are fifty-five, which also
have officers corresponding to the general
officers; besides these, there are missions
such as the branches on the islands and

[Column 3]
in foreign countries. In the stakes al-
luded to, there are organized branches
that have a similar board of officers, also
teachers who make regular house to
house visits. In this way, each society:
large or small, is aware of the condition
and circumstances of all in local districts.
These stakes are also visited at stated
times by members of the General Board,
and missionaries duly appointed.
	The young women also have an organ-
ization called the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association, also
affiliated with the National Council, which
is more for intellectual, moral and spirit-
ual development. Their work is broad
and extensive and far-reaching. It enters
into all the avenues of life, including
the home. The young men have a simi-
lar organization, and these two associa-
tions meet conjointly at regular intervals,
	Another large organization of our
Church is for children, both boys and
girls under fourteen years or thereabouts.
It is called the Primary Association. It is
much of it religious work, yet manners
and morals form a great part of the
teaching.
	Besides these, we have the Sunday
Schools, the public schools, high schools
and kindergartens, academies, colleges
and universities of learning.
	As you undoubtedly know, we have
women’s clubs, woman suffrage organ-
izations and Republican and Democratic
clubs and associations, and we are divided
on party lines like other people, both
Mormon and Gentile.
	Perhaps you will say after all that I
have not given a straightforward answer
to your question. I have endeavored to
have you understand what Mormonism
is, and how it appeals to me. Mormon
women are the happiest women in the
world, taken as a whole. I know them
intimately, in their homes, in their organ-
izations, in politics, in religion. We have
more actual freedom than most other
women, we are a very independent body
of women, we vote, we attend political
primaries and conventions and take part
in them, we have helped to make this
country, (some of us who were sort of
pioneers,) and we feel as if it belonged
to us, we are home-makers, we be-
lieve in homes, we are some of us col-
onizers, our young people marry and go
out into new lands, north and south and
bnild up new settlements somewhat as we
did when we came here, only they are
better supplied with what is needed.
	We have been and are trying to estab-
lish such institutions, educational, civil
and religious as will be a credit to our
great country. We are a patriotic peo-
ple. The Constitution of our country
and the Declaration of Independence are
sacred instruments to us. We have here
a society of the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion, and Daughters of the American
Revolution. There is a large number of
our people who are descendents of the
New England Puritans (myself among the
number). Joseph Smith, Brigham Young
Heber C. Kimball, and other Apostles
were of this lineage, born in Vermont.
Many other leaders of the Church were
born in other New England States, Wil-
ford Woodruff, President of the Church
at the time of the famous manifesto, pro-
hibiting the practice of plural marriage,
was from Connecticut. My husband,
Daniel H. Wells, was born in Trenton,


[Column 1]
New York, but of Puritan parentage.
Joseph F. Smith, the present President
of the Church, was born in Far West,
Missouri, while his father was in prison
for his religion, at the time of the terrible
persecution of the Saints when they were
driven at the peril of their lives into
Illinois. His father, Hyrum Smith, was
an older brother of Joseph Smith, and
was martyred hy his side, June 27, 1844,
in Carthage jail, Illinois. This may be
beside the subject, but my aim is to show
you who the Mormon people are, among
whom my lot is cast.
	I have known all the principal men and
women of the Church since 1843. I
knew Brigham Young intimately and all
his large family, have been closely asso-
ciated with them, and wish to say that he
was a noble, upright and honorable man,
a great leader a pioneer, knew how to
win the hearts of the people, lovely in his
family to wives and children. My hus-
band was his Counselor in the Church for
many years, until the death of Brigham
Young.
	I have traveled among this people and
have represented the women in Suffrage
Conventions and other assemblies of
women in the East, and in Washington
many times, have presented memorials in
behalf of ‘‘Mormon” women to members
of Congress, and Presidents of the United
States. I know whereof I speak when it
comes to “Mormon” women. I have pub-
lished the Woman’s Exponent for consid-
erably more than a quarter of a century,
and during that time have met and con-
versed with possibly thousands of people,
not of our faith; so that I know some-
thing of the women of the world, as well
as of the men. My work has been mostly
with women, except my political work,
and my great desire is and has been to
help women. As the General Secretary
of the National Woman’s Relief Society,
I have a grand opportunity of helpfulness
to women. I love my work and only
wish it were possible to do more. I stand
for the higher advancement of woman
the world over, for everything that will
better her condition, mentally, morally,
spiritually, temporally. I am aware of
the awakening of women the world over,
and I know its significance. Woman will
be redeemed from bondage, but she must
be taught how to help herself. This is
indeed the woman’s age, and I honor the
brave and noble women who have taken
the lead for the enfranchisement and
progress and higher education of women.
I know many of them personally.
	We have in our Church some of the
grandest types of women the world has
ever known. The president of our great
organizations, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
President of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, Mrs. Mary Isabella Horne, Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, all these women are
over eighty, active and energetic, spirit-
ually and temporally. Mrs. Elmina S.
Taylor, president of the Y. L. N. M. I.
A., numbering 25,000 young ladies, Mrs.
Louie Felt, president of the Primary

[Column 2]
Association of 50,000 children, and these
are but a few of the women of our Church
(we know many hundreds) who stand for
purity, for truth and righteousness. The
women of the past whose names appeal
to me, who have endured the severe
trials and persecutions rise up before me
when I think of them, and I see how they
developed the most admirable traits of
character while passing through such ter-
rible ordeals, driven from their homes,
wanderers in the wilderness without food
or shelter, for the sake of their religious
faith. I speak their names with rever-
ence. There are many heroines in the
“Mormon” Church whose names will ring
down the ages. Their faith in God is as
strong as the everlasting hills, that can-
not be moved. They are self-sacrificing
and reverent women. They are trying to
live by the Golden Rule.
	Respectfully submitted,
			EMMELINE B. WELLS.
Feb., 1903.


