THE JUBILEE BOX.

	Perhaps it is not generally known that
the Relief Society has deposited in the His-
torian’s Offce in this city a Jubilee Box. It
would be well to remind the younger gener-
ation from time to time of the fact, that
they may not let it remain unopened at the
proper date. This box is safely sealed and
is to be opened in April, 1930, by the gen-
eral secretary of the Relief Society. The
box contains poems, miscellaneous papers,
historical manuscripts and pictures, also a
letter addressed to the oldest female de-
scendant then living of the person who pre-
pared the respective package.
	This jubilee box was the original idea of
Sarah M. Kimball, who had been elected
secretary of the General Relief Society June
19, 1880. It will be remembered that al-
though the Jubilee Conference of the Church
was held in April, 1880, yet the Jubilee cele-
bration was on the 24th of July, 1880.
	We are familiar with the particulars con-
cerning the box, as much of the preparatory
work was done in the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT in the old Council House, on the
famous corner of the block where the Dese-
ret News building now stands, and the
writer was one of those who personally
helped with the work. The inspiration,
came to Sister Kimball during the celebra-
tion, or about that time, July, 1880, but
the box was not deposited until April, 1881,
as it took some time to get the matter ready
and have it properly understood.
	There is also a similar box deposited in
Provo by Sister Margaret T. Smoot; that
box contains besides Relief Society matter
the names of each officer and member of
the Primary Associations in Utah County.
This part of the work was done by Sister
Zina Young Williams (now Card) and her


son Sterling Williams. Sister Zina andher
son Sterling may very likely be living in
1930 when the box is to be opened.
	If there are any sisters who see this notice
and recall having prepared a package for the
Jubilee Box, the editor of this paper desires
the name and present address of such per-
sons for publication, and to keep on record
for future use.


