		HARRIET CANFIELD BROWN,

The Angel Death passed through our midst one
		day,
	In quest of noblest soul, whom, he might send
For special purpose to the Father’s throne,
	And lo! he took Aunt Hattie, our dear friend.
Not strange that he should choose so rare a
		gem,
	Not strange the call, “The Lord hath need of
		thee.”
’Twas stranger that she stayed with us so long,
	So good, so pure, so angel-like was she,
A very halo round about her seemed;
	No evil e’er found place within her heart
The slanderer in her presence stood as mute,
	Awed by her power, which was of heaven a
		part.
Of trial, sorrow, persecution sore.
	Full share had she, yet bravely stood the test,
Of battles quiet fought she gave no sign.
	Brave conqueror thou well hast earned thy
		rest.


[Column 1]
	Quietly and peacefully, on December 27,
1907, at 9:10 a. m., the spirit of Sister Har-
riet Canfield Brown took its flight across the
shadowy river to the great beyond.
	It was just such a passing away as was
emblematic of her life, calm, peaceful, tran-
quil. No matter how heavy her cross, “God
willed it so,” and that satisfied her trusting
soul. Bravely she bore her load and accom-
plished her mission, passing thence from
death unto life. Closed now are her eyes,
hushed is her voice, her form will no more
be seen in our midst, but she has left upon
our souls the impress of her nobility of char- 
acter, her loftiness of purpose and her un-
swerving trust in God.

	How nobly, how bravely she toiled,
		How well her work is done;
	Her life, its labors seemed all complete,
		Ere the setting of life’s sun.

	Sister Harriet Brown was born March 9,
1834, at Ossion, N. Y., where her early life
was spent. As a child she was of a gentle,
loving, modest and retiring disposition, and
the same qualities remained with her
throughout her entire life and distinguished
her as a choice and noble spirit, yet withal
her personality was such that evil would be
abashed in her presence. She was always
of a studious nature and loved books far
better than childish sports. Her parents de-
siring to give her that which her whole na-
ture craved, sent her to the Alfred Academy,
N. Y., from which she graduated in July,
1854. Prior to this she had taught school.
	The days spent in this academy must
have been very happy ones as evinced by her
abiding love for her Alma Mater, for she
ever kept in close touch with that institu-
tion.
	But not alone in the satisfaction exper-
ienced through the realization of her fondest
aspirations, was her great happiness found.
The Gospel had been preached in that vicin-
ity, and she, with others of her dear ones 
had received the glad message. Thus was
her soul expanding and drinking to its full-
est of the waters of life. She was baptized
June 17, 1851, thus linking her life with
those of the Latter-day Saints. After grad-
uating she went to Kentucky where she
taught school for several months, but, as is
usual with the true saint, the spirit of gath- 
ering manifested itself and she traveled to
Council Bluffs, teaching school at that place
during the winter of 1855. It was here she
met and loved a man of God, and they two,
whose lives were consecrated to the same
high and holy purpose, were united in mar-
riage, April 13, 1856.
	Then followed the journey across the
plains, with all its attending hardships, test-
ing the faith and endurance of every Saint
who gathered to Zion in those early days.
Arriving in Ogden, her husband was engaged
to teach school, in which vocation she soon
joined, continuing in the same until 1870,
when poor health compelled her resignation.
Three children came to bless their union:
Harriet E., Israel C., and Annis, all of whom
with a faithful and devoted sister, and other
members of the family, are left to cherish
the memory of their honored and sainted
dead.
	Sister Harriet Canfield Brown early iden-
tified herself with the Relief Society, where
her very efficient labors soon brought her
into the front ranks; this, indeed, was work
in full accord with her loving, sympathetic
disposition.
	After the return from the south in 1858,
she was chosen second counselor in the

[Column 2]
Ogden City Relief Society. Next we find
her president of the same, working with the
same diligence to perform her part in the
work of love and charity to which her whole
soul responded.

	How tender she was at the couch of pain,
		How willing her sisters to bless,
	The poor felt her liberal hand in theirs,
		Her works were of righteousness.
	Her counsels were fraught with wisdom,
		Her teachings were full of love,
	Her example will bear fruition
		That will follow her above.

	In 1871, by her own request, with deep
regret, she was permitted to resign her posi-
tion as president, and Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards succeeded her, retaining Sister Hattie,
as she was lovingly called, as her first
counselor, which position she honorably and
faithfully filled until called from us by
death. In 1877 the work was largely in-
creased by separate branches being organized
in each ward of Ogden and Weber Co., and
the complete organization of the Relief
Society of the Weber Stake being effected,
yet although frail in body she exhibited the
same zeal, energy and faithfulness that al-
ways characterized her labors and still
proved herself the wise counselor and val-
ued friend, and when through affliction she
was no longer able to meet with us, her
messages of love were as benedictions to the
sisters.
	Although she shrank from anything of a
public nature, yet she drew around her the
good and pure, both old and young, and
her beautiful life has been an inspiration to
all with whom she came in contact. "To
know her was to love her, and they who
knew her best loved her most.”
	In her death we are all bereaved, but
what must it mean in the quiet home over
which with such queenly grace and dignity
she presided so long: there, as with us her
place is vacant, She has passed the bourne
from whence no traveler ever returns. One
can only pray that with their bereavement
may come its accompanying balm and that
the sweet influence of the holy spirit
may brood over the home hallowed by the
noble dead who have passed its portals in
their flight to the realms of glory.
	At her funeral as in her life there was no
grand display or demonstration; heads were
bowed, tread was muffled, voices subdued
and softened. All were awed by the passing
of a great soul. And when in that silent
city of the dead, her body was lowered into
mother earth,

“Then faith viewed life in that scene of death,
Felt summer’s breeze in the winter’s breath,
Knew the seed in weakness sown that hour,
Hereafter would rise in glory and power,
Changing earth for heaven’s high sphere,
Time’s brief day for Eternity’s year.’’

