WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Box
Elder Stake was held in the Tabernacle
Brigham City, November 5, 1907. Presi-
dent Susannah P. Booth presiding. Sister
Emily Richards of the General Board was
present, also Stake President Olein N. Stohl,
and the officers of the Stake Relief Society.
16 branches of the Society were represent-
ed.
	After the opening exercises President
Booth gave the opening address, felt grate-
ful for the blessings of the Lord, urged the
sisters to be faithful in observing the laws
of the Church, spoke of her recent visit to
the conference at Salt Lake City, had at-
tended many meetings there and enjoyed
the instructions given, felt pleased that the
Relief Society Hall was in course of erec-
tion, mentioned what had been donated by
the Relief Society of the stake, towards the
building.
	Garland Society was reported by President
Julia Bingham; Bothwell by Pres. Sophia
Anderson; Beaver by President Lydia E.
Watkins; Scandinavian Society by President
Emma Pratt.
	Sister Emily Richards said, there is an
heavenly influence here which we always
feel in the meetings of the sisters, referred
to several meetings she had attended, where
many sisters were present, where the in-
fluence of the Holy Spirit flowed freely.
Quoted remarks made by President Joseph
F. Smith, also by the Prophet Joseph in re-
gard to woman’s progress and improvement.
Women are a litte inclined to be contracted,
they must expand before man will be what
he might be, for they are the mothers of
men.
	President Stohl said, how thankful we
should be for the gospel and for the great
knowledge we have received, the complete
organization of the Church. The gospel was
restored in this dispensation to prepare the
way for the coming of Christ. He bore his
testimony, and related several incidents,
spoke on the word of wisdom, advised par-
ents to instruct their families in honesty and
purity of character.
	President Booth made a few closing re-
marks.
	After singing prayer was offered by Coun-
selor Mary J. Harding the sisters repaired to
the vestry where refreshments were served,
after which an officers’ meeting was held and
valuable instructions given by Mrs. Emily
Richards and others.
	Conference was reconvened at 2 o’clock.
President Booth presiding. Stake Counselor
W. C. Horsley was present. After the open-
ing exercises of singing and prayer, etc.,
Bear River City Society was reported by
President Sarah M. Fridahl; Elwood, by
Counselor Annie Hansen.
	Sister Lottie Cazier sang “Providence is
over all.”
	Stake Counselor Emilia D. Madsen spoke
on attending meetings, said, we often ex-
cuse ourselves and others for triflling cares.
We can overcome these little difficulties if
we are determined to do so; referred to her
past labors and associations in the Relief
Society, gave instructions to the teachers,
also spoke at length on the word of wisdom,
rejoiced greatly in the privileges of the gos-
pel.
	Sister Emily Richards expressed pleasure
in witnessing the order of the meetings here,
how nicely and orderly everything was con-

[Column 2]
ducted, was pleased with all she had seen
and heard; spoke of training the young peo-
ple, the care necessary to properly bring
them up, etc.; gave explanations concerning
the nurses class; spoke on the influence of
woman, her help is needed everywhere to
put down lawlessness, so much destruction
has recently been done by our own children;
spoke on existing conditions among us, and
said, there are women, who would rather
take care of dogs than children.
	The Latter-day Saint women know what
their jewels are. Read a poem, “The Mas-
ter.” She spoke interestingly on many other
subjects.
	Elder W. C. Horsley was pleased with the
privilege of attending this conference and of
listening to the speakers, related an incident
or two concerning the young people. Said,
“we must sometimes take a firm stand or
we will have no children.” Related several
incidents and experiences in his travels
among the people, mentioned some of the
good work, accomplished by the Relief So-
ciety in this stake; read two poems, the first
entitled “The mean man,” the second
“What have we done today.”
	President Booth said, we all have been
benefited today by attending this conference,
thanked all for their attendance and assist-
ance.
	After singing “Our God we raise to Thee”
and bendiction by Sister Emmeline Watkins
conference adjourned until next June.
				ANNIE J. WIXOM,
							Secretary.
				NEBO.
	Conference of Nebo Stake Relief Society
was held at Mammoth meeting house, Presi-
dent E. J. Dixon presiding. After the usual
opening exercises, Sister Forcey, president
of Mammoth ward R. S., welcomed us to
their city. Reported Mammoth Ward
society in good condition. President Dixon
was pleased to meet with us in conference
capacity and well pleased with the good re-
port. Asked for a representative to be at
our union meeting to keep in touch with
the work. We must keep up with our du-
ties, if we expect to gain the reward, if we
keep the laws we are sure to have the bless-
ings, we must look in, and not out, look
for the good in ourselves. Sisters Whit-
lock and Freckleton sang a beautiful duet,
“Angels are Watching us.” Sister Mary
Brown read an article on R. S. work and
duties reported the General R. S. still in-
creasing rapidly. Read what Sister Bath-
sheba Smith said in regard to the scope of
R. S. work. Recitation by Sister Millie
Sutherland. Sister May Miller talked on
good environment. Meeting adjourned un-
til 2 p. m., with singing and prayer.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. After
singing and prayer, reports were heard from
Sister Boyer of Silver, Sister Jones, Eureka,
Sister Forcey, Mammoth, Sister Pierce,
Salem; all in good working order, united
and doing well.
	Duet by Lizzie Allen and Laura Bring-
hurst,
	Sister Townsend spoke of the importance
and magnitude of R. S. work and the great
good accomplished by the sisters each year.
Brother Chatwin was pleased with the re-
ports that had been given here today, spoke
of the power of love with our children in
governing and controlling them. President
Dixon reported Nebo Stake R. S., thanked
the sisters for their contribution to the

[Column 3]
stake tabernacle and also thanked them for
their hospitality.
	Singing, “Do what is right.” Conference
adjourned. Benediction by Sister Forcey.
				ELIZA A. HAWKINS,
							Cor. Sec.
			SAN JUAN.
	The San Juan Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held at Mancos, Colorado, on
Monday, November 11, 1907. Sisters Annie
T. Hyde and Minnie H. James, of the Gen-
eral Board, as well as a great number of
visftors were present. Stake President
Mary N. Jones presiding. After the open-
ing exercises, the reports of the ten branches
of the Relief Society were given. These re-
ports showed a diligence in the work, not-
withstanding the scattered condition here.
Brother John Evans favored us with a vocal
selection, “Sometime we’ll understand.”
Counselor Annie T. Hyde of the General
Relief Society gave an interesting history of
the early days of the society. We special-
ize the Gospel, we have to live the Gospel
before we can teach it. The love of the
Gospel should be strong enough to enable
us to keep all the commandments. God
meant what he said, “Man, know thyself.”
We need to teach the young people to be
pure minded. We hope the girls will grad-
uate from the mutual and become efficient
Relief Society workers. We grow by what
we give. The test of the love of the Gospel
is shown by the way we live. Don’t worry,
preserve your health that your lives may be
prolonged.”
	Sister Minnie H. James said the Prophet
said every virtuous woman was to be a
member of the society. He opened the
gate and led us in.
	Sister Vida Halls favored us with a solo,
“Sometime, Somewhere.” A good spirit
prevailed throughout the meeting. Our
officers’ meeting was held at 4 p. m., in
which the nurses’ work was spoken of by
Sister Hyde. The day was perfect and
everything contributed to the success of
the conference.
		MARY LYMAN, Sec. pro. tem.


