			ALPINE.
	The regular quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine stake was held at
Pleasant Grove, Friday, October 18, 1907,
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
	After the usual opening exercises Presi-
dent Standring expressed her pleasure in
meeting her sisters in fall conference. Said,
Times are hastening on; are we keeping
up with the times and trying to do our duty
along with the brethren. There had been
much sickness amongst us lately, and some
of our presidents are laboring incessantly
among the sick, until some of them are
worn down and not able to attend to their

[Column 3]
legitimate duties. This should not be, there
are quite a number of sisters who can attend
to this matter, which should be directed by
the teachers. This would be satisfactory,
for the president would know that the sick
are well taken care of. This organization is
the greatest on earth among women, they
not only attend to the temporal wants of the
poor but look after the spiritual welfare. Bore
a faithful testimony, and thought it would
be good to have a spiritual meeting this
morning, that the sisters might bear testi-
mony of the work of the Lord and the good-
ness of God towards them.
	A majority of the local presidents bore
testimony and sxpressed their love of
Relief Society work and their determiation
to continue in their labors and to do their
duty. Also reported their several wards,
which are in good working order, with faith-
ful officers and teachers. A spirit of im-
provement seems to be in their midst, and
they are steadily advancing, showing an in-
crease in faith and good works and a gener-
al good feeling among officers and members,
all doing whatever is assigned to them.
	Singing—“Who are these arrayed in
white?”
	Brother James H. Clarke, of the stake
presidency, was pleased that the sisters were
loyal to the president of the Society, and
had spoken as they were moved upon by
the Holy Spirit. We should be loyal to our
Church and loyal to our families and friends.
If we are loyal to each other, the spirit will
grow with us and we will stand for every
pure principle of the Gospel and everything
that is good. If we do wrong we bring re-
proach upon each other and upon the
Church. Your hearts are in the work, and
if this influence were to be carried to others,
how much good would be effected. Strang-
ers watch us, and we should try to get them
to see the light; if we could convert them we
would have much cause for rejoicing—some-
times five minutes’ sermon will accomplish
much good. Was sorry to see little boys on
the street at night! The parents know not
what they are doing, but if they get into evil,
trouble may come. The Lord is with you,
sisters, and though your bodies may be
weak, He will bless you, and after a while
you will go on the other side, where there is
no weakness, but crowns of life will be laid
up for you, that fade not away. Cease not
to pray for your wayward children—don’t
give them up; they may have to suffer, but
the Lord will bring them back. Felt to ask
God’s blessing on the sisters and that His
Spirit may abide with them continually.
	Singing and benediction.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session, reassembled at 2
o’clock, President Rebecca Standring presid-
ing.
	After the opening exercises, three more of
the presidents of wards reported, each branch
of the stake is in an encouraging condition,
they also bore testimony to the principles of
the Gospel and expressed the pleasure they
took in Relief Society work.
	R. S. Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley
felt when the sisters were telling of their
visits to the sick and poor they were fulfill-
ing the words of scripture. We believe in
doing to others as we would have others
do unto us. Was pleased with President
Standring’s instructions regarding the care
of the sick. Its not wisdom for the presi-
dents to take so much responsibility upon
themselves until they are worked down, for
they do more than their strength allows. We
as mothers know whether our children are


out on the streets or at home, and my sym-
pathy goes out to mothers who are troubled
over children. As mothers we are trying to 
do our very best, and we are blessed in having
children in our homes. May the spirit of
the Lord help us to guide our children.
There is no heaven for us without children,
and parents and friends. May we be able
to control our children that we may enjoy
peace and contentment.
	Stake Counselor Harriet Jacobs testified
to the truth of the Latter-day Gospel. We
are blessed in having been brought out of
the world unto the light of the Gospel. Sis-
ters, be wise when you go to sit up with the
sick—if possible, lie down and give the pa-
tients a chance to rest if they can. I have
suffered myself by having persons sit up
when they might as well have lain down.
You can give all the attention needed when
you are close at hand. We are told that
we will be judged by our thought. We
cannot help our thoughts coming, but we
are responsible for those thoughts remaining.
When we feel bowed down, let us sing the
songs of Zion, and we will feel lifted up. Let
us keep the Word of Wisdom, and let us en-
courage our young sisters to go to the tem-
ple when they enter the holy state of matri-
mony, Asked the Lord to bless us in our
endeavors to improve.
	President Stephen L. Chipman: The re-
ports of the wards are necessary. We learn
from each other, and a word may be dropped
that will benefit another. To be spiritually-
minded is life We must think of the things
of God. We must act along the lines of the
Gospel; the more we work, the more we en-
joy the spirit of the Gospel. The Relief
Society is one of the helps to assist in con-
verting souls and in caring for the sick and
downcast. It is necessary that we have
charity. We must bear with one another
where I am weak; perhaps you may be
strong, and where I am strong you may be
weak. Every organization in the Church is
necessary, and one cannot say to another,
We have no need of thee; all have been
placed there to help and make a perfect
completeness. God established this work
and this plan, and our organization aston-
shes the world. The Lord will bless us if
we are united and work in harmony togeth-
er. The sisters are more loving and spirit-
ual-minded than their brothers. It is in the
hearts of the sisters to reach out and help all
who are in need, Spoke of the movement
on foot to establish free libraries in the
small towns for the benefit of the boys and
attract them from the streets. May God
bless you, my sisters, may we never tire of
work in this cause.
	Sister Zina Chipman said we have had
truths enough today to reflect on for a long
time. We have no time to waste, and
hoped she would always be ready and will-
ing to do her duty in this Society.
	Meeting closed by singing and prayer by
Sister Emma Featherstone.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
