[Vol32 | May 1945 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Marianne Clark Sharp Lyman]

Marcia Knowlton Howells First Counselor in the General Presidency, 1940-45
President Amy Brown Lyman MARCIA K. HOWELLS DAUGHTER of a Relief Society stake president and relative of one of the two elders who assisted the Prophet Joseph Smith at the organization meeting of the Relief Society, Marcia Knowlton Howells has, since her childhood days, been familiar with Relief Society work and activities, and she has always loved, appreciated, and honored this great woman's auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Her mother, Minerva Richards Knowlton, was a life-long member of the Society and served for many years with distinction as Relief Society Page 272 president of Davis Stake, which at that time covered the whole of Davis County. In addition to traveling about, supervising and directing the welfare, health, and civic activities in this progressive unit. Sister Knowlton planned and prepared the courses of study used in her wards. The General Board at that time did not provide, as it does today, a uniform course of study, and stakes were left to prepare their own work. Marcia, no doubt, remembers seeing her mother work long hours and far into the night over her outlines, after a hard day of household activities. Her grandfather's uncle. Dr. Willard Richards, accompanied Joseph Smith and John Taylor to that important meeting in Nauvoo, Illinois, on March 17, 1842, when the Relief Society was organized, and assisted by acting as temporary secretary until the organization was effected and Eliza R.
Snow was appointed permanent secretary. His name is listed among the seven donors who, on that memorable occasion, made charity contributions and thus established the first charity fund of the Society.
With this unusual Relief Society background, a rich heritage in itself for a Relief Society worker, with her long years of service in the organization, and with her exceptional ability, Sister Howells has been able to make outstanding contributions to
MARCIA KNOWLTON HOWELLS 273 the Relief Society cause in both ward and stake as well as on the General Board. I first met Marcia Knowlton at the summer cottage of Sister Heber J.
Grant at Brighton where we were both guests. I was immediately attracted to her because of her charming and interesting personality, her fine qualities of heart and mind, and her boundless energy and interest in life. And from that time on I have loved and admired her and have enjoyed association with her as a fellow worker in civic and Church activities. SISTER HOWELLS was called to the General Board of Relief Society on February 2, 1929, and on January 1, 1940 was appointed first counselor in the general presidency. As a Board member she has given generously of her time to important committee work, and has traveled extensively throughout the Church attending stake and mission conferences and conventions. Her work in the general presidency has been largely of an administrative nature. As manager of the temple and burial clothes department and general director of the Mormon Handicraft Shop, she has demonstrated unusual executive and managerial ability, carrying forward her labors in these connections with efficiency, diligence, and dispatch, and achieving, withal, phenomenal success.
Directing the work of these two important departments, always a challenge, has been especially taxing the last few years because of the shortage of materials and merchandise and because of war restrictions; but Sister Howells has always regarded this assignment as a rare privilege which she has enjoyed. She appreciates the distinctive and important service and opportunity these projects provide or offer to the people of the Church. As a member of the general Church Welfare committee, with special assignment to the clothing committee, and as work director on the General Board, Sister Howells has given time and attention to the clothing and sewing plans of the Church Welfare program, and to the sewing activities which are carried on in the regular work meetings of the Society. She has also assisted with the preparation of that portion of the General Welfare budget which has to do with the clothing program. Sister Howells has represented the General Board in many community activities, notably those which have had to do with health and welfare work. She was state chairman of the May Day Child Health Day in 1939. She is at present a valued member of the executive committee of the board of directors of the Utah Tuberculosis Association. She recently helped to direct the establishment of the splendid library of which the U. S. O. Of Salt Lake City has been so proud. In 1939, she attended the National Conference of Social Workers at San Francisco, following which she attended a social service institute at the University of California at Berkeley. In 1941 in company with Sister Donna D. Sorensen, she represented the Society at the biennial meeting of the National Council of Women. Sister Howells has been a wise, safe, and helpful counselor.
Blessed with intelligence, broad experience, and sound judgment, and fortified with a burning testimony of the gospel and with an understanding of the responsibilities and obligations resting upon those who serve in a Church capacity, she has been able to recognize the relative importance and value of the many questions and problems presented for consideration and action, and to help to make wise, reasonable, and safe decisions. She is an able presiding officer and a gifted and fluent public speaker, with an excellent vocabulary. She gave promise of these fine qualities of leadership when, as a young woman, she served as president of her class at the L.D.S. high school, and as vice-president of the student body of that institution; also later during her four-year period of teaching.
She was educated in the public schools of Farmington, at the L.D.S. high school and University of Utah, preparing herself for the teaching profession at the latter institution. In 1910, she was married to Dr. Thomas J. Howells, a leading physician of the State, and an able and progressive specialist in the field of public health. He was for many years the Salt Lake City health commissioner, in which position he gave excellent service, and is at present a member of the State Board of Health.
Sister Howells is a generous, devoted, and unselfish friend. She is never happier than when doing something for others. When her friends are in trouble she is among the first to visit and comfort them. I count it as one of the distinctive privileges of my life to associate with and share work with Marcia Knowlton Howells. MEADOW LARK Grace M. Candland Returning friend of early spring, I hear Your call from low, green marsh and leafing tree, A lilting song of joyous melody Divinely sweet to each attentive ear. And then my heart grows light, I seem to know That His kind care, perhaps, had thought of me. And of my need of just such ecstacy When clouds obscured the way that I should go. May I, like you, blithe messenger, renew In some despairing life the will to see That lowly things send forth incessantly A song of life that thrills one through and through. Dear meadowlark, your floating notes of bliss Are one rare treat I would not care to miss. Vera White Pohlman General Secretary-Treasurer, 1940-45
President Belle S, Spafford FEW persons called to a position of trust and responsibility come to that position better qualified through native ability, training, and experience than did Vera White Pohlman when, in January 1940, she was called to serve as general secretary-treasurer of Relief Society. Thoroughly familiar with the history, rulings, and policies of the Society, acquainted with General Board office procedures, having a knowledge of the requirements of Reliei Society Magazine work, and intimate with the work of the Relief Society welfare department through twelve years of previous service in the general offices, her Relief Society background was rich. Prior to her appointment as general secretary-treasurer she had served with the Salt Lake County Department of Public Welfare, where she organized recording and filing systems and supervised the stenographic and clerical staff. She had also been employed as statistician with the State Emergency Relief Administration (F. E. R. A.) which was succeeded by the State Department of Public Welfare, where she served as director of its bureau of research and statistics, contributing much to the development and establishment of its policies and procedures, and to the training of personnel in this new function of state government in Utah. VERA W. POHLMAN All of this experience was invaluable in her Relief Society assignment which had so much to do with welfare work, important record keeping, the formulating and establishment of rulings, policies, and procedures, and the training of personnel. At the time of the appointment of Vera W. Pohlman as general secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Amy W. Evans wrote of her: "With her natural ability for details, her experience in welfare work, her fund of information regarding and thorough understanding of all phases of Relief Society work, her faithfulness to trust, and her dependability, Mrs. Pohlman will make a very efficient and valuable general secretary." Page 
  MAY 1945
This prognostication has indeed been fulfilled. Her record of efficient service to the Society in this responsible position will ever stand a credit to her and a blessing to the Relief Society. Vera W.
Pohlman has a brilliant and an analytical mind. She has a marvelous capacity not only to quickly and clearly see a problem or a situation, but to see all that is in any way related to it; she readily recognizes the influence of one situation upon another and can accurately foresee results of action.
This rare capacity has made her of inestimable value in executive councils, in committee work, and as a member of the General Board, enabling her to arrive at sound conclusions and to guide others to do likewise. Mrs.
Pohlman is a tireless, enduring worker. No amount of time or effort is considered, nor is any thought of saving herself allowed to enter into the performance of her duties.
During the early years of her incumbency as general secretary-treasurer when, in addition to the regular duties incident to this position, she was reorganizing the offices and setting up new and more economical and efficient systems of management, she also carried a tremendous responsibility and did a vast amount of work in connection with Relief Society centennial plans and activities.
During this period she worked long into the night, denying herself recreation and relaxation.
Every minute was devoted to duty. THERE are few people who take greater pride in their work than does Vera Pohlman. Careful, painstaking, accurate effort accompanies all that she does from the smallest unimportant bit of work to the heaviest and most essential of tasks.
Perfection is her standard of measurement.
Vera fully appreciates the importance of the Relief Society cause. She loves the women of the Church and has a sincere desire to serve them. She continuously strives to make things clear, easy, and convenient for them, and she is never happier than when she feels she has been of service. She has met with thousands of Relief Society women in her visits to the stakes and missions of the Church. In 1943 she traveled continuously from early September until mid-December, meeting with Relief Society women representing 142 stakes and missions. The many expressions of appreciation for these visits bear evidence of the regard felt for her by Relief Society women because of her efficiency and knowledge of Relief Society work, and of their love and admiration for her because of her willingness to serve them.
Special mention should here be made of a few of Mrs. Pohlman's special contributions to Relief Society. She has prepared new, simplified visiting teacher report books, and has revised ward and stake record books. The revised record books allow for the inclusion of valuable information, much of which was formerly not included, particularly with regard to the sewing program.
This information permits a clear picture of the status of all phases of Relief Society work and materially aids the General Board to better plan and more effectively direct the Society. Mrs. Pohlman's personal ability to interpret figures and give them life and vitality is a rare gift.
In 1941, she prepared family record forms for use of Relief Society presidents in making a family analysis. These forms, endorsed by the Church Welfare Plan, are in use at the present time and are a guide and an asset to Relief Society presidents in analyzing the situation of families under care and in making sound recommendations to bishops regarding family needs.
Relief Society publications have benefited by the skills and knowledge of Vera W. Pohlman. She is a gifted writer, meticulous in the preparation of material for publication and is familiar with technical publishing details.