[Vol32 | May 1945 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Poem | Title: Parallel]

favor of the scheme of ''pro came, in eﬀect, two parallel confer-visional
cantonization," a plan ences, and when the British propos-whereby existing
communities of als for a compromise settlement were Jews or Arabs would
be formed in rejected, in turn, by both groups, to cantons, or local self-
governing the conference came to an untimely units, under the direction of
a cen end. tral or federal government. The Congress very sharply criticized
the Peel A ^ a result of the failure of the recommendation with regard to fur
Arab-Jewish conferences, the ther immigration restriction. British
Government, on May 17,
Although the British Government 1939, issued its oﬃcial statement of at
ﬁrst formally approved the Peel policy with regard to Palestine in Report,
opposition was so strong to what is commonly known as the ward it in the
House of Commons, Chamberlain White Paper. This that the Cabinet voted
to table the document envisaged the establish-plan pending further study.
Mean ment, within ten years, of an inde-while, civil war again ﬂared up in
pendent Palestinian state, in which Palestine. Beginning in 19387 both
Jews and Arabs were to parti-''riots, sniping, bomb throwdng, as cipate
equally, according to popula-sassinations, banditry and inter-rac tion, in a
representative form of gov-ial outrages were of almost daily oc ernment.
"X^'Tien once established, currence." The Government sought the
independent state would be obli-vainly to restore order by imprison gated
to enter into treaty relations ment, hangings, and executions. In with Great
Britain. A transitory or July 1938, marines were landed at probationary
period of ten years was Haifa and additional troops ordered speciﬁed for
the development of to the interior. In light of these cir self-government. If,
at the end of cumstances, it is not surprising that this period, the British
Government the British authorities, in Novem should conclude that the
