[Vol32 | May 1945 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Donner]

The following January 1940, Sister Garff was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society under its new president, Amy Brown Lyman. Sister Garff and Sister Lyman had developed a close friendship in Europe which Sister Lyman was presiding over the women's auxiliaries of the European mission. Sister Garff has said of her many occasions that she doesn't know how she could have carried on her great responsibilities had it not been for Sister Lyman's frequent letters of direction and encouragement. Sister Lyman's deep understanding of people and their problems, with her helpful disposition made it natural for Gertrude to turn to her for counsel and advice. She was very happy to be called into a continued association with so noble a character.
Sister Garff is friendly and approachable. She works well with people. She has the courage of her convictions, yet is pliable to the extent that if she is shown a better way she willingly accepts it. She attacks each assignment with an open-mindedness intelligence.
Gertrude and Mark have three young children: Mark R. (eight years), Charlotte (four years), and baby Georgia (one and one-half years). These human treasures along with her splendid husband receive her untiring devotion.
From her husband, her father, and her mother, she will receive maximum support in her new position.
FULFILLMENT
Mabel Jones Gabbott
The young bride dreamed of years ahead, All shining bright with lofty deeds, With this accomplishment and that She planned to meet the world's great needs.
The years came on with toil and pain, No great achievement came her way; Her life was filled with humble tasks, She met and wisely lived each day.
She swept and baked and sewed and sang; In holy partnership with God She brought a boy into the world And taught him rev'rence for the sod.
The mother, crowned with silvery hair, Looked back content when life was done. What greater gift could help the world Than this a fine and noble son?
Amy Brown Lyman
General President of Relief Society, January 1940 April 1945
President Belle S. Spafford
DURING the past 103 years, eight women, each richly endowed with leadership strength and possessing a strong testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, have presided over  
Sister Lyman became a member of the Relief Society General Board in 1909. Her capabilities, fine spirit, zeal, and willingness to serve brought consistent advancement for her. In 1911 she was appointed assistant general secretary. This appointment was followed successively by her appointment as general secretary (1913-21), general secretary-treasurer (1921-1928), counselor to Louise Y. Robison in the general presidency (1928-39), and general president (1940-45).
Her administration has covered a momentous and unusually trying period in the history of the Society. Almost immediately upon taking over her duties as president, Sister Lyman, with the aid of her capable Board, enthusiastically initiated plans for an appropriate observance of the Relief Society centennial, two years away, including completion of the membership campaign which had been launched in 1935 for the purpose of enlisting 100,000 members by 1942. Straight thinking,
history of the Society and appreciation for the past, as well as a clear, certain, hopeful outlook upon the future, coupled with a fine understanding of the purposes of the Society and its meaning in the lives of Latter-day Saint women were needed to direct plans and activities for this important event. Possessing all of these qualifications President Lyman was ideally suited to preside at this time, and she was heavily drawn upon.
Due to the engagement of the United States in war, December 1941, all centennial plans did not mature; some were cancelled and the consummation of others delayed. However, there were many noteworthy and beneficial results from centennial activities. These, together with the graceful acceptance of the situation by Relief Society women and their ready adjustment to conditions are pronounced evidence of President Lyman's leadership strength.
Not only did the war affect the centennial observance, it also brought about modifications in the regular Relief Society program. In accordance with recommendations of the First Presidency, whose counsel President Lyman profoundly respects and implicitly obeys, the program was greatly simplified and the recommended restrictions strictly observed. Moreover, her understanding of what is basic in the Society, her analytical mind and good judgment enabled her to meet these difficult problems and guide the Society through perilous and discouraging war years with outstanding success. In spite of the greatness of handicaps, high standards were maintained in regular Relief Society work, effective co-operation was given the Church Welfare Plan, a vast amount of war work was accomplished, and progressive action taken that will lighten the load of future leaders. Relief Society activities during the administration of Amy Brown Lyman reflect the genius of her leadership. Page 

  MAY 1945 ALL of the contributions of Amy Brown Lyman to her Church and to society are too numerous and varied to even enumerate in the space here available. Her influence has been national and international; thousands have been the beneficiaries of her service. As a pioneer in the field of social-welfare work she is pre-eminent among her contemporaries. Her efforts to alleviate human suffering, to promote family solidarity, and to develop improved methods of helping people out of trouble have been consistent, continuous, intelligent, and successful. Her love for women has expressed itself in tireless efforts in their behalf. She has worked diligently to create better understanding of their needs and interests, and to secure improved opportunities and greater consideration for them in the fields of education, industry, and the professions. She has actively affiliated herself with the National and International Councils of Women, holding responsible positions and favorably identifying herself with great women leaders of this and foreign nations. Mrs.
Lyman has been the friend of children, actively participating in securing legislation providing for better maternity and infancy care. She has co-operated in the establishment of milk depots, encouraged well-baby and health clinics, and promoted and fostered sound child-welfare programs and practices. She has been sympathetic toward the underprivileged and handicapped and has programmed intelligently for them.
Instrumental in the establishment of the American Fork Training School, she served for twelve years as a member of its board of trustees. Amy Lyman has valued and advanced education and encouraged learning. She recognizes the power of education to help people appreciate life and adjust to it. She herself is a gifted teacher. She also has an avid interest in history and its careful and accurate preservation. As general secretary of Relief Society she collected, indexed, and preserved valuable records and prepared comprehensive record books for use in wards and stakes. She has also been instrumental in the collection and preservation of pictures and other materials of historical value to the Society. As a missionary, Sister Lyman has borne her testimony in many lands, taught the gospel she so dearly loves, and enriched many, many lives. She refers to her missionary labors as "a joy, a satisfaction, and an inspiration throughout."
Fortunate are those who work with Amy Brown Lyman. She possesses rare administrative ability. She unselfishly magnifies her associates, inspiring them with confidence in themselves by readily recognizing their strengths and the value of their work, and by turning full credit and honor back to them. She loyally upholds those who she appoints, at the same tie aiding in their development and wisely guiding and directing their activities. As her successor in the general presidency of the Relief Society, I am grateful for the opportunities and training she has given me. I regard my association with her as among the richest experiences of my life. I admire her devotion to the gospel. I admire her devotion to the gospel. I appreciate the vision she has given me of Relief Society work. I love her for the charm of her personality, her sense of humor, her deep understanding of human nature, her loyalty to her friends and to the right, her courage, and her many personal kindnesses to me. I honor her for her true greatness of character.
FROM UNNAMED MOUNTAINS
Dott J. Sartori From unnamed mountains marred with violence You write "How are the hills of home this year?" A tendril groping for some permanence To twine beyond the loaded bandoleer Here are the counterparts of memory. The canyon, cleft within your exiled brain. The misted peaks, become reality. I troll the ageless certitudes again Down to you from a wind-washed eminence Where russet soil has settled on this tier Of rock. The evergreen still drives its lance Into the sky, a changeless cavalier. The butterflies thread woods along the stream. Woof of the forest and weft of your dream. Assurance of unaltered majesty In the long-lived profile of a precipice, I send, and faith no stricken earth nor tree Shall disillusion your returning eyes.... Upon the northern slope, the aspen stems Glow silver-green, pale as a luna moth; The fern is beaded lace between the hems And petticoats of cool and living cloth. This boulder sheltered daisies small as these The age, when under Pinta's listing spars, Mutinous eyes, from strange and fearful seas, Were lifted to the same familiar stars. On some dark retina, now dust, once lay Horizons I delineate today.