[Vol32 | May 1945 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Meadow Candland]
While he selected and cut the right size willows, she yanked and slashed oﬀ
wild grapevines to serve as ropes. When the travois was ﬁnished, it had a
lashed platform for the wheat and a pair of shafts for Tilda. She cleaned
herself up, braided her hair, and put on the hat her mother had woven for
her from pond rushes. Ma brought a lunch—two pieces of cornbread and a
cucumber—wrapped in a piece of ﬂour sack. Pa carried out the wheat and
placed it on the travois
platform. Tilda laid her lunch beside the sack. She was dressed in her
Sunday homespun, and wore her shoes.
"Take your ﬂipper," ma directed. 'Tou might meet something."
Tilda laughed, but she stowed the slingshot and a handful of pebbles in her
skirt pocket.
Pulling the drag along the road, Tilda pretended she was an Indian girl on
the way to greet her warrior lover. She threw her hat on the wheat and hung
her long braids over her breasts. With her belt and a turkey feather she
found, she made an Indian headband. She had just donned it when old
Bishop Robinson rode i|p behind her.
"Mornin', Gal," he said heartily. He had twinkling eyes.
"Good morning. Bishop Robinson."
He cocked his gray head to one side. "Let's see. Whose gal you be? I can't
place all these children growing up so fast."
"I'm Mathilda Dawson."
"To be sure. Say, what you got there, Sister Tildy?"
"A bushel of wheat I gleaned. I'm taking it to town."
"It's a right hot day for dragging. To save you the trip to Ogden I'll give you
two dollars for your wheat."
Tilda remembered that though the bishop was a righteous worker for the
Lord, he had the reputation of being a shrewd trader.
Page 287

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1945
''What say, Tildy?" he prompted. "Whose ﬁeld did you glean?" "Brother
Burnett's/' "He grows good wheat. Tell you, I'll make it three dollars."
She didn't want to oﬀend Frank's grandfather. She must refuse politely.
"Thank you, Bishop, but I got to take this to town."
"Why's that?" The old man shifted his weight in the saddle.
"I got to buy me some calico dress goods."
His wise eyes crinkled at the corners. "Couldn't you buy the goods with the
money? Easier than drag-gin' your sack so far."
"Calico's dear. Three dollars ain't enough." Would he be mad?
He chuckled, "That's the best I can oﬀer. Well?"
She shook her head.
"Maybe you'll get more." He clucked to his horse. "Giddap."
The dust settled on Tilda. She plodded ahead. The heat grew intense and
she stopped brieﬂy to remove her shoes. It felt more comfortable to walk
barefoot. Did squaws get this tired?
After what seemed a very long time, she came to the river. She would have
to carry the wheat across. Tilda caught up her skirts and fastened them
around her waist with her belt. She pierced the feather through one of her
braids. She unloaded the sack on a ledge jutting out from the river bank.
Bending her shoulders, she hauled the heavy load onto her back, then
walked cautiously into the shallow stream.
The rocks on the bottom were slick. Minnows brushed against her legs. It
was hard to keep her balance, but she reached the op-
posite bank and slid the sack to the ground. Tilda drew a long breath. She
recrossed the river, got the travois and her shoes and hat, and brought them
over, too. Now she'd eat her lunch.

"What's that you're so scared o' wettin', little Injun?"
A squat, red-headed man stepped from behind a tree. A tall, gray-haired
man and a half-breed joined him. They had riﬂes.
Tilda faced them deﬁantly, though she quaked inside.
"I'm no Indian," she said with dignity. "This is wheat. I see you're
strangers. If you are on your way to California, you're headed in the wrong
direction. You go through Salt Lake."
"We done found that out," mumbled the gray-haired man. "Boys, we can
use that wheat, eh?"
'An' take a load oﬀ the gal's shoulders," laughed Redhead.
"It's my wheat!" Tilda crouched desperately over the sack.
"You get more," said the half-breed in threatening gutterals.
The tall stranger roughly shoved the girl aside and slung the sack over his
shoulder. "Run back home or I'll smack you."
Lowering her head like a goat, Tilda butted him. He stumbled and the
wheat slid to the ground. But Redhead grabbed her arms.
"You big bullies!" she sobbed, and kicked her captor's shins.
"Ain't you a hellion though!" There was admiration in his tone. "Now, Sis,
skedaddle. Else I'll turn you over my knee and paddle you."
A hot ﬂood of mixed humiliation and rage engulfed Tilda. They went into
the bushes with her wheat.
TEN MILES TO CALICO
289
Two weeks of hard work! The tall man spoke to horses, then she heard
wagon wheels creak.
Tilda gulped her last sob. She wouldn't let them do it! She felt in her pocket