
VOL. 49 NO, 10 ~ OCTOBER Dorothy J. Roberts Gold hung high where poplar stems were leaning; Crimson were the maples, kissed by frost. Light lay, amber, even in the shadows And dappled the clear streamlet as we crossed. Golden halls arched down the autumn canyon, Coral carpets rustled at our tread. Darkness was a stranger to the mountain Save where the emerald boughs of fir were spread. So brief the gold that trembles on the aspen, The flare of cnmson climbing up the slope, But I have held fall close another season And breathed again the brave, clean air of hope. I shall remember, long, the tall stems, leaning, Their shadows stretched like streamers on the trail. I shall recall this flaming glade and hollow, This golden day beneath a cloud's white sail. The Cover: Autumn in Owens Valley, California Color Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Autumn Tracery, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press 713 TOM I was so thrilled with the July issue of the Magazine. I have enjoyed every issue for years, and they have always seemed so perfect that I didn't think any improvements could be made. I enjoyed especially the article and pictures "Jesus and the Land He Loved" by Christine H. Robinson and Dr. O. Preston Robinson. The cover picture of the Jordan River was very beautiful. "Hand to the Plow," by Ilene H. Kingsbury is beautifully written, also "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. I have loved the series "She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith" (AprilAugust 1962), by Preston Nibley. The article by Frances C. Yost "In a Time of Flood" shows how people should demonstrate their love for their fellow beings by relieving their distress and suffering. The women of the Church are extremely fortunate in having such a wonderful Magazine. —Golda A. Thomas Bonne Terre, Missouri I am a teenager from Glasgow, Scotland. I have been a member of the Church all my life. In fact, I am a third-generation Latter-day Saint on both sides of my family, of which I am very proud. I really enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine. The only thing I have against the Magazine is that I have never seen any letters from Scotland on the From Near and Far page, so I thought I would let you know that the saints over here read and enjoy the Magazine. —Miss Christine Scott Glasgow, Scotland I loved the last issue (July) of The Relief Society Magazine, with its beautiful cover, its inspiring poetry and articles, as well as interesting stories. I especially loved Doris Duncan's "The Pea Patch" and also "One of the Pioneers,' by Adrian Hansen. They are both so vivid and appealing. —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California 714 Var anid Tey I just have to express my appreciation for our wonderful Magazine — the beautiful coloring and the new type of paper add so much. The July issue was extra special — especially the article by Christine H. Robinson, "Jesus and the Land He Loved." What a wealth of information the article contained, and the pictures. Are priceless. The frontispiece poem "Summer Interval," by Dorothy J. Roberts, sparkled with beauty. I love all her poems. —Sylvia Probst Young Midvale, Utah After reading "In a Time of Flood," and wiping tears away, I was more prepared to enjoy the wonderful July issue. Sister Yost told about the flood in such a way that I actually felt I was there with her. Our home was Soda Springs (near Bancroft, Idaho) years ago, so this story seems very close to me. Each Magazine seems to fill my need from daily cares with the joy of poetry, stories that never fail to give courage, the beautiful scenes, and, most of all, the lessons, for spiritual food and growth. —Mrs. Zerelda Sapp Weed, California I just have to tell you how much The Relief Society Magazine means to us sisters here in Alaska. There are times when we cannot get out as the weather is so cold, and what an uplift it is to go to the mailbox and bring in the beautifully colored Magazine. The stories, poems, and the visiting teacher messages are wonderful. —Wilma Poff Fairbanks, Alaska Now for several years, through the generosity of Mr. And Mrs. Virg Bird of Springville, Utah, I have enjoyed the lovely Relief Society Magazine. Each edition is a renewal of their love, faith, and friendship. This Magazine is full of beauty, inspiration, understanding, and I enjoy every page. —Marie Lewey Blountstown, Florida

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES Gospel Restoration — Part of the Etermal Plan ooo. TeeceeeeeeeeceecceceeeeeneeceeneesMark E. Petersen 716 Patterns of Family Life and Organization -2 eeesceeeeseeneceeeeeeescceneeceeeccenneesLucile Dimond Smith 722 A Permanent Home ooio. Ioe cee ecceececcsesseceeeecseecaseceneeesecenscecscensseaeensetecseesceaseescsensnecccasseeceesNorma Dee Ryan 729 Hands Across co Quilt 2o eiccieieeeeceeceseeecceneceeeceenscecensesececesecenseeenccceeececsseesensestencensacseccecesAleine M. Young 738 FICTION The Spirit of Thamnksoiving 2. Cee eee eecee eceeeceeeececeescescenecencenececenecessnsesneeccenceencessneeensHelen H. Trutton 730 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 4 2ooecetecciccecieceecccceceescececeneeenecnsnscseeneensceesnecnsesncccsneneccesShirley Thulin 750 Hand to the Plow — Part VI (Conclusion) 2 c.. Cece teeeteececeecnneceeeeeeeceeeeeeeeesIlene H. Kingsbury 756 GENERAL FEATURES ete 00le i ae | aia 714 ME POOLS AO nnn non. O. Scencesesnenneenceenenccnnceneeceereeenscncensseneenesssseenenscsceasansecesecsececcensseccesueceeseenesectansnaneeasecsencenss 734 A fo) ceXo) oN s) ©) el.) ¢- reRamona W. Cannon 735 Editorial: The Wages of Indulgence uo eee ceseeceeeeeeeceeceeeeeeneceeeceneececeeeenaceceseeeseeMarianne C. Sharp 736 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities _..00.000 —Hulda Parker 762 Birthday Congratulations ooo eleeeectceceececcsecececeseccecceeceesceceeenscceeceecsecenssucececeeccesenceceseceseneseceeseeeecesneeeeesenecece 792 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Joy Of Workimg ooo. OeieecccececcececccseceessceeeecescensanceseesescseeneseceuscessssssenessesesseceeseesasessCaroline Eyring Miner 721 BITS LOT VAT nena ce cenneecncencecoceenccnecaccansecsececceecseceescerecececccecceeceseeeeneesMay Walkenhorst 741 Recipes From Calgary Stake oo ceceececcecccccececceccecececsececcecsscecccoecuseeceeseescesecsseseeseceseceVirginia N. Myers 744 Two Handy Gifts for Christmas 2. O ecsccscecececcsecscececesscecessesseeseseustecesesecectssaeteeceeeesesesenseeAdelle Ashby 746 Dorthea Strom Knits Sweaters for Missionaries -.. S.:0--cscssecececesecsseceocsceccoscssecesesesneeesessueenseseveveseoseee 761 LESSONS FOR JANUARY Theology — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments -..0.0 -----0:-ssecesseseeseseeeeoseneeeeesRoy W. Doxey 769 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time' ap eece ce cere ce eco veeceetee eee eeeeeeeeceenenecemsneneusesChristine H. Robinson 775 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized — Part IV ence ennnvennnnenonvaceinnnasdpseeceeceneecsaausllVirginia F. Cutler 777 Literature — Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable AMateur cecccccccceccccccccccccecc-eBriant S. Jacobs 779 Social Science — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) coecceccccccccsecccccseoeeeAriel S. Ballif 784 POETRY October — Frontispiece oon. Eo. Ccecccecescecscccsessecteveescoterecseeeereseeeeeee.. Dorothy J. Roberts 713 Published monthly by 

THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Repor:; change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

TS Gospel Restoration - Part of the Eternal Plan Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve his presence before the world was formed. The earth was created as a home for us. Adam and Eve were sent here first, and through them we, the rest of the human race, were destined to be born. The purpose of our coming into mortality was to obtain flesh and bone bodies, so essential to our progress, and to be placed here in a probationary life in which we could prove our worthiness to come back into our Father's presence, for it was his desire that we develop and become like unto him. In order to have Adam and Eve and their children clearly understand their relationship to the Almighty, it was necessary that God appear to them and talk with them face to face, so that they could see him, hear him, and know him. They were commanded to worship him, and to make their worship intelligent, they were permitted to see and talk with him. It is interesting to note that God even appeared to the first murderer, Cain, and talked with him face to face after his crime. Not even Cain and his children — banished as they were into the land of Nod — would have any excuse for not serving God, for the Lord did appear to and talk with Cain. 716 \ S children of God we lived in As the human race began to grow, Satan came among them, and sowed seeds of disbelief. He taught them to love darkness better than light, and as he did so an apostasy from the truth developed. Many fought against God. Always there was the faithful group, but many drifted away into error and sin. The apostasy developed so fast and so far that in the days of Enoch the Lord called him to bring the people back from their disobedience. So evil were they that they attempted to slay Enoch, but the Lord protected him. The Lord was determined to save his people if they would only listen to him But many of them, having fallen away so far, had lost their true knowledge of God. 'Therefore, that knowledge had to be restored once again, and so God appeared to and walked and talked with his servant Enoch. It was a new revelation of God in that day. It was another attempt of the Lord to call his people back to the way of truth. Angels were sent to help him as part of this new revelation of God in his day. Enoch told the people of this new appearance of the Lord. Said he: "I saw the Lord and he stood before my face, and he talked with GOSPEL RESTORATION me even as a man talketh one with another, face to face." As a result of his labors, a great conversion took place among the honest in heart, all of whom were gathered together into the city of Enoch and were called Zion, the pure in heart. But there were many who rebelled and continued in their apostasy. Enoch wept for them, and the heavens wept. When Enoch and his city were taken into heaven, only a few faithful were left remaining on the earth. The apostasy continued until the time of Noah. Again, the Lord attempted to call his people back, once again by a personal revelation of himself. Just as he had appeared to Adam, to Seth, to Cain, to Enoch, so he now appeared to Noah and walked and talked with him, in what was a new revelation of God for that day. Mankind could not have excuse, for God _ personally came to earth and made himself known. It was another attempt to stave off further apostasy, and to bring the people back to the knowledge of God. But the people still rebelled. The Lord gave them 120 years in which to repent, but they would not. Noah preached with power, but they resisted him. "There were giants in the earth in those days," and they sought Noah to take away his life, and the Lord warned that "My spirit shall not always strive with man." "And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people, saying: Hearken, and give heed to my words; Believe and trepent of your sins and be baptized 717 in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you." But the scripture says "they hearkened not," and Noah's "heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth." So great was the apostasy that "The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was cortupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth." So came the flood, and Noah and his family — eight souls — were saved, together with the living creatures they had taken with them into the ark. But the Lord was not to give up. He was ready to start a new dispensation on the earth with Noah and his family. To make certain that they understood the gospel, and knew God, the Lord appeared, and walked and talked with Noah, and gave him commandments. Again, the Lord was granting unto man a new revelation of himself as a means of convincing them of the truth of the gospel. But it was not long until sin again overcame much of the righteousness of Noah's family. As new generations came, they, too, drifted away; they, too, began to apostatize. This new apostasy continued to the days of Abraham, who, in speaking of his own family said, "My fathers having turned from their righteousness and from the holy commandments which the Lord their God had given unto them, un- 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 to the worshiping of the gods of the heathen, utterly refused to hearken to my voice." Abraham's own father was an idolator. But the Lord appeared to Abraham in that time of idolatry, giving to him the true knowledge of the living God, despite the apostasy even in Abraham's own family. God walked and talked with Abraham, as he did also with his son Isaac and with Jacob. Evidently there were few faithful believers in the day of Jacob, for when he and his family went to Egypt to avoid the consequences of the famine, there were but "three score and ten" to go. The Israelites multiplied rapidly in Egypt, and by the time they had spent 400 years in that land they were numerous. But 400 years in Egypt — a land of idolatry — took their toll in a loss of faith among the Israelites, who began to follow the ways of their captors. Israel began to apostatize again. Many of them adopted the ways and the religion of the Egyptians and departed from the true faith. The Lord had a great destiny for Israel, but he could not work it out with them in a state of apostasy. So he raised up Moses to bring them out of Egypt, and lead them to the promised land. God knew how far they had departed from the truth, and endeavored to bring them back. As was the case with earlier similar apostasies, only a restoration of the truth would overcome error. So God gave to Israel of that day another — and to them a new — revelation of himself. Moses walked and talked with him. Seventy of the elders of Israel went into the mount where they beheld the Lord in person, and even ate and drank in his presence. They could testify of him to the rest of the people. The Ten Commandments were given. 'The mighty sequence on Mt. Sinai took place, much to the fright of the faithless and unbelieving, and finally the law was given. It all was a new revelation of God to these wayward people. It was another attempt of the Lord to save them, and he provided this new revelation as the means of doing so. Time went on. As the Israelites entered the promised land they pledged their allegiance to the Lord, and for a time kept his commandments. But again apostasy developed among them. Many were faithful, but many were not. Prophets arose among them, such as Elijah, Elisha, and Jeremiah, in the midst of apostasy, warning them of destruction if they would not repent. Captivity came to them as a result of their rebellion against God and his prophets, some of whom they killed, others they put in prison. Part of the apostasy was a changing of the law of the Lord in that day on the part of the learned among them. This led the people farther than ever from the Lord. Y the time of John the Baptist, they had drifted far, and he endeavored by his preaching to draw them back to the Lord. Again but few responded. When Jesus came he opened the dispensation of the meridian of time. As Paul expressed it: "God, GOSPEL RESTORATION who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son." It was another new revelation of God, for Jesus, as Paul explained, was the "brightness of his [the Father's] glory, and the express image of his person." Truly the coming of Christ was a new revelation of God to the people of that day, and it was an effort of the Almighty to once again draw his people away from apostasy and sin, and back to the true work of God. Jesus preached throughout' Palestine for three years. 'Throngs followed him. At one time he fed five thousand, at another time four thousand. But apostasy took place even in his own day. Early in his ministry, as recorded in the sixth chapter of John, a great falling away took place, so great that he turned to the twelve and asked if they, too, would leave him. Then it was that Peter replied for the group and said, "Lord, to whom Shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life." When the arrest and crucifixion came, the Lord's few followers were scattered. Most of them fled. Even Peter denied him. A mere handful were present at the time of the resurrection, and when the day of Pentecost came, only 120 — of all the thousands who had followed him — assembled. Filled with the Holy Ghost, and with the power of the revelation of God which had been provided through the life and ministry, death and resurrection of the Savior, the 719 Twelve carried on the ministry against great odds. At last apostasy came again, led by bitter persecutions and encouraged by the Greek philosophers who confused the people in doctrine, by the sins of the people themselves, and the loss of divine authority in the clergy. This went from error to error, until there was great disputation and contention in the Church. Constantine tried to correct it, but failed. Finally, it was he who decided upon the mistaken notion of God which was handed down for years to come. When the Protestant reformation came, new churches were formed, new doctrines were advanced, and the apostasy grew. But the Lord loved his modern children as well as he had loved his ancient ones, and he determined to save them from the darkness of spiritual bondage. Again, there was only one way to pierce the gloom and to correct the false notions of God and religion so widespread among the people, and that was to give a new revelation of himself to man. There was much to do before the second coming of Christ. The way must be prepared. The true Church must be brought back among men, with the divine Priesthood to conduct its affairs. S the Lord raised up Moses for his day, and Abraham for his, so he raised up a new Prophet in modern times to begin his work. He prepared his mind and led him into spiritual paths. He inspired a little boy whom he had sent unto the earth with a great 720 mission. 'The boy was confused, as was his family, when they listened to the contending preachers of the day. They did not know which church was right. This boy, Joseph Smith, was guided by the Lord to read in James: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." This Joseph determined to do. Going into the woods near his home, he knelt in humble prayer, asking for guidance. Which church should he join? In answer to his prayer, the Father and the Son, God the Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ the Savior, appeared to him there in western New York, and gave him direction. It was no dream. It was not even a vision in the usually accepted definition of the term. It Was a Great Reality. God came down from heaven and appeared here in the United States in modern times to a modern boy. So likewise did the Savior, Jesus Christ. It was as real as the appearance of God to Moses, and for the same purpose. It was a new revelation of God to man — given as a means of bringing salvation to those who would follow the Lord in sincerity and truth. As was the case in Moses' day, so in our day, this new revelation did not end with one appearance. It included setting up an organization through which God could do his work. As the Lord established his laws and practices and his Church organization in the days of Moses, as he did likewise in the days of Peter and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Paul, so in our day this new revelation of God included setting up his Church on earth again. It was part of the great divine plan. This modern appearance of the Lord was not merely in answer to the prayer of a little boy seeking guidance. That prayer was the immediate act which God used to open his new and modern dispensation, fulfilling the predictions of the prophets of old. This dispensation is different from all previous dispensations which had been given to combat apostasy throughout the history of the world. It is different in that all others ended in one form of apostasy or another. This one will not end in apostasy. This new dispensation will continue on until the coming of Christ. The gospel will not be taken away from those who now are its custodians, nor will it be given to another people. It will remain on the earth and grow — even, as the prophet saw — until it fills the whole earth. This is the last dispensation, the last time because it is in the last days, preliminary to the coming of the Savior. The testimony of this dispensation is the same as all others before it — God lives, he is our Father; Jesus is the Christ; he is our Savior; his Church is upon the earth, and only through it can salvation come, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.". == » Autumn Paaeant a. J - ~ Evelyn Fyjeldsted Yellow leaves are turning somersaults, Across the lawn and down the walk. Shadow silhouettes move listlessly, With the gentle rhythm of the wind. Like a stately ship at sea, The grey hawk aerials his course, With graceful might he disappears, Upon the waves of sun-streaked clouds. A banished little moon design — A dandelion too late — alone, Is hiding from the changing winds, A refugee of golden light. The chorus in the tree is gone. One small note drifts through the sleepy calm, A lonely sound and hesitant As a dry weed shaken by the wind. The reassurance of the hopes, Disclosed in autumn's pageant ways, Is challenging to unbelief, Although these witnesses are brief. The Joy of Working Caroline Eyring Miner "yD rather work at chemistry than eat. I really feel guilty about taking money for a job I love to do so well!" I have heard my famous scientist brother Henry make this statement many times. Fortunate indeed is the person who has found work to do that he loves. The greater part of our lives is spent in work, and if we have enthusiasm for it, and would rather do it than eat, we are going to live happy lives. The chances are also that we are going to live successful lives, for we do well the things we like to do. My father loved horses and cattle. To ride the range in the lush pasture land of Old Mexico, where the grass was tall and beautiful, was never work in any sense of burden to him. He loved horses and cared for them and rode until he was past eighty. Making cheese at the mountain ranch on the Tanejo River was a sheer delight. My mother's hands were never idle. She braided rag rugs, darned stockings, knitted lace, or did some useful work almost every minute of her so-called leisure hours. "Life is joy when your work is well done, so pitch in, sons," said an old poem I learned as a child. The world of work is an adventure, if our minds are set to make it so. 72| Calvin Smith; Lucile Dimond Smith, holding baby Wayne Smith; Mary Smith. Picture taken about thirty-five years ago. Patterns of Family Life and Organization Lucile Dimond Smith "Utah Mother" of 1962 ia2 THE CALVIN S. SMITH FAMILY Front row seated, left to nght: Claudia Smith; Maurine Smith; Kathleen Smith. Second row seated, left to nght: Elizabeth Smith Wrathall; Mary Taylor Smith; Calvin S. Smith; Lucile D. Smith; Susan Miller, granddaughter; Helen Smith Rabe. Back row standing, left to right: Lucile Smith Hutchings; Nora Smith Grover; Virginia Smith Scharffs; Margaret Smith Miller; Calvin Smith, Jr.; Wayne Smith. James Dimond Smith and Mary Smith, deceased, are not in the picture. Picture taken about six years ago. A pattern for a dress. It is a design, a way or mode of life one selects to achieve a goal or an objective. What one wants out of life, what one values for himself and his family, and how much one is willing to sacrifice for his objective, determine the pattern or design for family life he will choose. What is God's purpose in creating man? Dzifferent nations, different cultures, and religions show a marked divergence in their outlook on life and _ life's purposes. What constitutes the good life? ' pattern for family living is like Primitive peoples are said to be kindly and indulgent with their children. National patterns among the poor and the middle classes in some nations are strict, authoritarian, and harsh. 'They exploit the children. One nation rejects the family altogether as a means of survival. Choosing a pattern of living is a very complex problem. In choosing a pattern for my family, I was greatly influenced by the family living in the home of my parents. They were sincere, honest, industrious Latter-day Saints. My father was a 723 724 convert to the Church, an immigrant from England, and the first bishop of Bennion Ward. My mother was the daughter of a pioneer of 1847, and the first president of Uintah Stake Relief Society. My father's home and the pattern of family life were based on the Church principles of love and service. My parents extended themselves, with their limited resources, to give us every advantage of religious training and education. We were a healthy, happy, integrated group. We were given consideration and respect. We loved each other, worked, and co-operated _together to make the most of our resources. In being mother to my family, I have had in mind the fulfillment of what I conceived to be woman's noblest and most important function — having a family and rearing the members of it so that each individual in it could find the greatest happiness and _ satisfaction possible out of life, and render the best service of which he was capable. It is my belief that woman finds her greatest joy and reward, and _performs her most useful services to God, her children, and her community in rearing a healthy family of trained, useful citizens who find joy and happiness in life and in service to their fellow men. The mother is the "fountain of life." It is she who is the most important teacher, the example, the stimulator for good, the protector against evil and dissension, and the guardian of peace. It is she who must be responsive to the divine purposes of God, and_ transplant them into the daily living of all her family. It is she who must seek to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 understand and interpret the good from former times, and the worthy and enduring trends of the changing present. She must be responsive to the moral and ethical impulses of society, whether represented by the Church, the schools, or by society in general. The mothers and fathers should be the major line of defense in keeping the atmosphere of the home and of society in conformity with accepted standards of nght and wrong. HE unwritten code and the family pattern for training our children seem to be: 1. Our children are God's gift to us. 'They give purpose and meaning to life. We accepted the responsibility for rearing our children, educating them, and find our greatest source of joy and happiness in working for and with them. It has been my major responsibility. 2. I have tried to be patient and understanding with my children in order to keep the lines of communication open between them and me. Anger, corporal punishment, condemnation, harsh criticism, tend to close the lines of communication between parents and children, and prevent empathy and understanding. I recall with resentment instances of unmerited and what I thought unjust punishment and criticism i my own life. I have tried to establish a permissive environment for our children, where they would feel free to express their feelings, where they could democratically experiment, share, evaluate, and grow. This was a major challenge. With all my getting, I have tried to gain understanding of them. 3. We have tried not to kill the PATTERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND ORGANIZATION child's interest by negation and evasion. The children have all wanted to help. We have encouraged them by giving them opportunity and by patiently teaching them how to perform household tasks most efficiently. If, with patience, persistence, and love, you can put a premium on individual development, it pays a thousandfold. Sometimes it seems so much easier to do the task than to teach the child how to do it. I shall never forget Calvin sitting by the fire trying to lace his shoes, with the tearful lament: "You always give me the hard things to do." We tend to forget the difficulties we had in learning to do things when we were small children. 4. We have tried to set a pattern of orderliness in the home. To teach children cleanliness and orderliness is one of the difficult things to do. Parents who succeed in this are the envy of all their neighbors. Some children must be reminded continuously to hang up their clothes, to polish their shoes, to make their beds, and clean the bathroom facillties after they have used them. Sometimes all it requires is a visit to the home of a careless acquaintance, and, by comparison, they feel the need of maintaining the family tradition of cleanliness and order. Personally, I have been grateful many times for the opportunity to co-operate with the schools in teaching the girls better home management by planning to redecorate their bedrooms, closets, or in the installation of the newer devices for hanging clothes, caring for shoes, and various storage items. Girls like projects. Every child needs a dresser and 75 a clothes closet, if possible, especially in the demanding adolescent period. For the boys we bought a small pants presser, particularly for use in their pre-professional days when clothes were at a premium but had to be kept neat and clean. The presser was used every day. It was also a boon to the pleated-skirt girl, who could not throw her skirt into discard because it needed a pressing. Once I watched with sadness the collapse of a fine family. The father had a keen sense of orderliness. For years he poured his wages into new furniture and new clothes for his children. But the odds were against him. 'The buttons were never sewed back on. Stitches that had become loosened were never repaired. The beds and overstuffed furniture were mere trampolines. Then he became discouraged. When all members of a family participate in planning and beautifying the home, assuming responsibility for decorating, painting, and cleaning their rooms, one of the problems of accepting and carrying responsibility is on its way to a solution. 5. I have not injected myself into childish disputes. It seemed better for the children to settle their own disputes. I did not want to be a referee. Intrusion was necessary only to prevent injury or domineering. 6. We do not overprotect our children. I would hesitate asking special favors for them, from the school or the Church. I would rather expect them to stand on their own feet. We have not encouraged belligerency. It is better to promote a spirit of sharing, of give and take. 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 7. I have tried to find constructive, useful tasks to keep the children growing; to expose them to good books and music, to supply them with attractive, appropriate recreation at home. Our home has been available to their friends. I have tried to lead the way, to encourage, to motivate, to provide incentive, to recognize their needs, and to cooperate in providing for the needs. I have hoped they would find pleasure in their tasks. When we all worked together at a job to be done, I think they, as well as I, have found real happiness. We all worked in the fields together. How to keep the children busy was of constant concern. I have struggled in my mind over and over as I have said The Lord's Prayer, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil,' and tried to make an interpretation for the benefit of my children. It seemed especially important when companions whom we knew did not have a good background, would gravitate, day after day, to our home. One would fear they might undo all the patient efforts of years of training. So the children said I "invented" work — music to be practiced, books to be read. The boys oiled the machinery so many times it was almost bathed in oil. They constructed cars out of discarded motors. (That took considerable time, and brought a bevy of little boys.) We cut down trees for the winter firewood. A lathe and jigsaw in the basement made furniture and playthings for the smaller children, and provided hours of recreation in cutting molds and patterns. My husband accumulated a fair-sized library of plans for children's projects: boats, kites, mechanical toys, furniture. This library was kept in the working area. The boys made their own play equipment: a Ferris wheel, teeters, tricky bars, swings — some on pulleys that extended the length of the yard — sand boxes, and dog houses. 8. I wanted my children to learn to play one or more musical insttuments. I set a schedule, often at five in the morning, and until late evening. Scarcely a day passed that I did not practice with some of them. Stringed instruments are so difficult to learn by oneself, so I studied the violin to help them. They have all co-operated with me. I noticed that if I played music, a rhythmic tune or melody, and left the music open on the piano, that, one by one, the children would try it out and soon learn it. 'They liked melody. Eventually, they would want to play it better than I. Music, to be enjoyed, cannot be a static thing. It is movement, joy, exuberance. 'That is one reason I have wanted each child to be a part of an orchestra or choir. I am amazed at the superior musical training young people are receiving in the schools. If they will only qualify, they will have one more anchor for rich, purposeful living. G. We have made regular attendance at school important. There has been little or no truancy on the part of our children. 10. "When I grow up, I want to be just like Papa." So said a small boy of our group. When questioned what he had in mind, he said, "Papa never wastes a minute." 'Truly the eyes of our children are always evaluating. 'They will be our judges now and later. We have tried to be forthright and honest — no idle PATTERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 727 promises or threats, and no evasions. Integrity and honesty and truthfulness are important. Our children and we must face the realities of life. We have tricd to treat each child fairly, and to deal justly with them, and to encourage them to be just with one another. 11. I have led the way; I have tried to set the example. I have not forced the children to accompany me to church. 'They have usually followed because they have found friendship and companionship there. Love and persuasion — not with a strap or a stick, not with coercion, but by patient insistence and firmness — have usually won out. A mother should not be too sure of herself; she must keep flexible. She should listen to her children. She may be wrong like the little boy's mother, when he said, "If my mother says it is so, it is so, even if it isn't so." The child may be right. Unjust punishment leads to resentment, and blocks communication and understanding. THEN I decided to make homemaking a life's work and profession, my husband concurring, I had some advantages. We were able to select a home site with enough area for home, garden, and domestic animals, and possibility for expansion. In the absence of zoning laws, we could finish our home as money permitted. We have kept to the policy of staying out of debt. Our home has never had a mortgage, although it has taken twenty years to build, on a_ pay-as-you-go basis. Thus we could put a major emphasis on education for husband and children. Both boys and girls were encouraged to select their vocations as early as possible, with the help of intelligence, aptitude, and interest tests, in order that high school and college time might not be wasted in a trial and error selection of vocational objectives. Each of our children has learned to milk cows, care for chickens, run a tractor, to plow, harrow, and cultivate before he learned to drive a car. 'They have hauled hay, combined grain, and irrigated. Each girl has learned from experts to cook and to make her own clothing. Through 4-H clubs and woolgrowers contests, they have had opportunity to win firsts and grand championships in clothing at county and State fairs. Each child has learned to play one or more musical instruments. All the children use the typewriter, and have had some traming in bookkeeping and_accounting. 'They have gone to political meetings and participated in political campaigns. We were greatly blessed in that our children have been normal physically and mentally. We do not wish to give the impression § that they were all little angels and never got into any mischief. 'They did as all normal children do. They learned to swim in the dirty waters of the canals. 'They played with the neighborhood children. Wayne and his friend shot the neighbor's ducks. He traded two fine turkeys for some hair oil, with a salesman who convinced him he was going bald. Elizabeth spent two years in bed with theumatic fever. Experiences such as these have made life exciting and uncertain. And so it has been a busy life, trying to fill every minute with 728 Church, school, and civic services, when needed. All the children are grown now. Claudia graduated from high school this year with honors. She is still with us. The others have graduated into responsibilities of their own. We have occasional family reunions with the children and grandchildren. We rejoice in the family solidarity, their interest in each other, and their friendship. So far they have shown no disposition to depart from the way in which they were brought up. Sorrow and tragedy have come into our lives, but there has been an acceptance of the inevitable, and no vain, useless lamenting. As far as we know, there is no truer, finer, more satisfying purpose in life than that accepted by the Church as revelation from God: Man is that he may have joy in abundant living, here and hereafter. Co-operation, service, industry, integrity, frugality, compassion, and neighborliness beget love and are the elements of happy living. In our family there has been a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 unity of purpose. Differences in patterns of family living have been talked over together, with the same goal in mind. For example, we have been unable to provide a weekly or monthly allowance for each child, as we should have liked, but we have allocated the income so as to satisfy the most important needs of each child. Where wages would have been paid for farm and other work, the children have been reimbursed. What a child earned was his own to use as he desired. One cannot have financial maturity or security unless one has a chance to handle money of his own. The gospel objectives of life have been our goals. The patterns of family life we have chosen, often after trial and error and study, have been designed or selected to achieve the gospel goal of joy in life for us and our children. 'The happiness and joy in life our children achieve, and the measure of their service and usefulness in their communities, are the criteria of our success. Cloud Cover Betty G. Spencer (| ee day was gloomy! Clouds covered the lofty mountains that were usually framed by my picture window. Yet, even though I could not see the tops that dreary morning, I knew those granite sentinels were there. That morning was a simile to life. Often, we find life's issues obscured by clouds of our own making. When we fail to do our best or evade our responsibilities, excusing ourselves with flimsy, contrived reasons to justify our actions, we are covering the truth with clouds. Beneath the clouds the truth remains—ready, waiting, to guide us in righteousness. Just as the sun's warm rays dispel the clouds on the mountains, our willingness to accept the truths of life, will sweep away the clouds which have hidden the truths from our view. Permanent Home Norma Dee Ryan "We moved into our house when we were first married and have lived there ever since." Hearing these words expressed at various times has, in the past, filled me with much envy, for due to my husband's military service and, subsequently, his occupation as a commercial pilot, we have had to move many times. To hear an acquaintance relate the history of a certain tree planted in her yard several years ago, or to have pointed out to me the thmill a friend has had in remodeling or adding to a beloved home, has been disheartening to me, when I can barely recall some of the apartments and houses we have lived in across the country. This thing that I envied for so long is a feeling of permanence, and I used to think that the only way to find it would be to stay in one spot, one home. 'Then one day I realized that all along I had been enjoying another kind of permanence which is stronger and more stable than any home. And that is the Church. When moving to a new location you must adjust to the climate, the housing, the schools, but when you go to Church, whether it be a large chapel or a small branch of a few members meeting in a rented hall, you are immediately at home. There is no adjustment to be made here! This is the same Church you have always known, the same teachings, and the same procedures. It is the one, steady, dependable "holdingon-place," while you feel your way into your new surroundings. S the mother in your family you can attend Relief Society, where you will feel welcome at once, for the women there will always seem the same as those you have known all your life. Here you continue, without interruption, the course you were following in your previous ward. 'The strength you derive from these associations and the lessons presented in Relief Society, will equip you better emotionally to be able to help the rest of your family make adjustments to their new environment. The best antidote for any homesickness or instability you may feel is to plunge immediately into the Church work that is familiar to you. I may never have a chance to return to Big Spring, Texas, to see if the flowers I planted survived the dust storms, and I know that at least one house we have lived in has been torn down, but the association I had with other Church members and the testimonies I remember which helped strengthen my own, are more valuable to me than any flowers. Our nomadic life may come to a halt, and we may yet be able to watch the small trees we plant grow into big ones, which will be wonderful, of course, but I am glad to know, should we have to move again, that for a sense of belonging, a feeling of permanence, we can always depend on the true, reliable permanent Church. 729 'The Spirit of Thanksgiving Helen H. 66 HERE," Cleta said aloud, | sticking the' last chrysanthemum in the vase, "they may not look florist quality, but they are decorative." Lucky, at least a few stragglers stood the ordeal, she thought, of these crisp November nights. She moved to the window and watched the big fleecy snowflakes swirl to the sidewalk, then melt away. This would be the first Thanksgiving she and the children would be alone. It had always been such a special day in the family. Kent had felt that they should spend the day filled with the traditions and lore of that first 'Thanksgiving, and she had agreed. "It helps the children appreciate their great heritage," he had often said, "and reminds us all to give thanks for our blessings." 730 Trutton Her thoughts were interrupted by her young son Danny as he came dashing into 'the room carrying his snowsuit. "Mommy, help me put this on. I can't do it alone." She turned from the window and took the coat. "Of course, dear." "It's too little," he said, as she tugged to get his arm into the tight sleeve. "I know, but it will have to do this year. We'll manage it somehow." "Why?" he asked. "Well, it's quite simple. Haven't the money to buy you another one. Come on, darling." She gave him a slight shove after zipping the suit. "We have shopping to do, and I want to stop by and pay Mrs. Larson." "You had better hurry," he yelled We to his two sisters in the next room, "Mommy and I are both ready." "So are we." Dawn and Heather appeared in the doorway, with Dawn, as usual, the spokesman for both of them. "We've been ready longer than you." Cleta managed a smile in spite of the loneliness that had clung to her all morning, as she reached down and took Danny's hand. "You really do look rather 'poured into that suit, but you look precious." "What's precious?" he asked seriously. She squeezed his hand. "That I love you. Come on, let's go. Our insurance check will be here today. We have things to do." All the way to town, she listened to the girls in the back seat chatter about their plans. "We will do the same things as always, wont we, Mother?" Dawn asked, "I mean the big dinner and program?" "Of course,' Cleta always." said, "as ENT would want it that way, she knew that. I'll read the same story, she thought, of that first Thanksgiving. Danny will stop me often to ask questions and add his 'deas about the friendly Indians who had joined in that first gathering. Dawn and Heather had asked the same questions when they were four and a half. Then the story would be over, and everyone would take a turn telling what they were especially thankful for — and, in the past, Kent had closed the little program by reading Psalm 100 from the Bible. "Daddy won't be home for 73) 732 Thanksgiving?" Danny asked, looking up at her. "Will he?" "No, dear," she answered. "Tl miss him." "Danny!" Heather leaned over the seat, and took his arm. "Be quiet." They were at the post office now. Cleta stopped the car, and slipped an arm around her young son. "We'll all miss him, Danny, but we'll have the best Thanksgiving we can. And, in the meantime, you stay here with the girls. I'll be ght back." "All right, Mommy," he said. "I won't move." She reached in her purse for the key to her box, and walked quickly up to number 218. But even before she stuck her hand in the box, she could see it was empty. "That can't be," she said aloud. "It's always here." Cleta hurried to the window and spoke to the man at the general delivery department. "Is the mail on time?" "Yes, Ma'am," he said, without looking up. "Tt has all been boxed." "I was just thinking, my letter might be mislaid, or placed in the wrong box." She tried to appear calm. "It's always here on this date." He raised his head and looked at her. "Not likely, Ma'am." "Are the trains running behind schedule?" she tried again. "T guess so, back East. Been some bad storms according to the papers." She thanked him and left. There was no need going to the grocery store now. She had no money for extra groceries. At the door, she paused, watching a group of youngsters along the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 street tossing the snowballs at one another. 'They were having such fun. Dawn, Heather, and Danny were enjoying themselves from the safety of the car. "Oh, Kent, what shall I do?" she breathed softly. EATHER came running to meet her when she started down the steps of the post office. "Ts anything wrong, Mother?" she asked anxiously. Cleta didn't answer until they were both settled back in the car, and then she said as calmly as she could, "Our insurance check didn't come, children." "Why?" Danny asked. "The check comes from Philadelphia. Trains are running behind because of bad storms," she said. "What will we do, Mother?" Dawn asked. "Do?" she said, and then she remembered the ten dollars she hadn't given to Mrs. Larson yet. If she used it today, and paid her when the insurance check came, the children wouldn't be disappointed. It was just too much to dampen their expectations by telling them there would be no big Thanksgiving dinner. Only — she had _ promised Mrs. Larson she would pay her today. "Can we still have the story, Mommy?" Danny scooted over against her when she started the car. "Can we, Mommy?" Wies, dear." "Who will read Daddy's part?" Heather asked quietly. "I know part of it." "We'll see," Cleta answered absentmindedly, "'later." THE SPIRIT OF THANKSGIVING If she asked Mrs. Larson if she minded waiting until her check came, naturally she would insist on waiting, even if she needed the money badly. Mrs. Larson was like that. She was elderly, and had very little to live on. Still the children.... Decisions, decisions, how she wished Kent were here. He always knew the right thing to do. They were nearing Mrs. Larson's little cottage now; she slowed down, and then suddenly stopped the car. "Tl only be a minute," she said, climbing out before she had a chance to change her mind. "We owe Mrs. Larson, and I think we should pay her — even if it means no turkey dinner tomorrow. Don't you think?" The children looked at her but. Said nothing, not even Danny. Quickly she left the car and walked up the steps and rang the doorbell. Mrs. Larson answered the door, smiling broadly. "Hello, Mrs. 'Thornson. Come in." "I brought the ten dollars I owe you." "Thank you, dear. I have my bag all packed. When you said you would bring the money over, I called my son and told him that I could come and spend Thanksgiving with his family." "Oh, that's wonderful. And you were counting on this?" she asked, handing Mrs. Larson the money. Eres." "Well, ''m certainly glad I didn't forget to come by," she said with relief. "Have a good trip. Now I must run." 733 "Goodbye, Mrs. Thornson, and thanks so much." Snow was sifting silently down from the sky as she walked slowly back to the car. She was so thankful she had paid Mrs. Larson. But now she must face the children. They would be brokenhearted. She didn't blame them. She had failed them on this first Thanksgiving without Kent. "Heather really can say part of Psalm 100,' Dawn called out when she neared the car. "Want to hear it, Mother?" "Very much," she said, fighting back tears. "I'm listening." "T know this part," Heather said quietly. "Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name." "Wonderful!" Cleta said. "Then you most certainly may do Daddy's part." She hesitated, looking from one to the other. Weren't they going to complain? She waited. The children were still making plans. Finally she said, "You don't mind the delay in our Thanksgiving dinner?" Serious Heather wrapped her arms around Cleta's neck. "No, Mother," she said. "You and Daddy always said that wasn't the important part of Thanksgiving. Didn't you?" Cleta's heart was too full to speak for several moments. When she could control her emotions, she said, "You really do understand the true spirit of Thanksgiving. Our precious little family — Daddy would be so proud of you, and so am I." Sixty Years Ago nn Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" INTERESTING VISITS AND MEETINGS — Colonia Juarez, Mexico: Early Thursday morning, June 27, Brother Edward Eyring, home missionary, President Mary B. Eyring and Eunice S. Harris, in the interest of the Relief Society, and Caroline Eyring, first counselor in the Primary, left their homes in Colonia Juarez, to visit the colonies in the mountains. A pleasant journey of about eight miles brought us to the mouth of the canyon, where the change of scenery, combined with the cool atmosphere made the ascent of the mountain indeed pleasant.... We had a magnificent view of the beautiful valley 1520 feet below... And as far as the eye could see rolling hills interlaced with canyon gorges and covered with a forest of pine, oak, and juniper.... We continued our journey through the most sublime mountain scenery to Pacheco.... We met with the Relief Society, then continued our journey to Garcia... And met with the Relief Society.... Early Saturday morning we resumed our journey to Chuichupa, located in an open valley forty miles south of Garcia. On Sunday we met in a special meeting with the Relief Society and Primary.... — Mary B. Eyring UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: Still all the beautiful things have not been written, the world of thought opens wider and wider as we advance step by step and behold the wonders contained therein. Then, my comrades of that world, press on and on Come Inspiration, flame divine, My thoughts attune, thy fervor lend, Unveil the past, o'er the future shine, Ah! Memory come, be thou my friend.... — Lydia D. Alder A WORK OF ART: By courtesy of Miss Ada Patterson we have received the new book... Entitled "By the Stage Door."... There is a great deal of character study in the work, it is a book to make one think deeply. It might easily be called a psychological study.... The language is delicate and refined and one need not be afraid to trust the reading of it to an innocent, inexperienced girl, in fact, the book is good enough, in language and sentiment, and sufficiently beautiful in outward appearance to be placed on the drawing room table in any home, be it cottage or palatial mansion. — Book Review A WOMAN MISSIONARY — in the Society Islands — 1850: The king is a very friendly man, agreeable in conversation. Is pleased with the American elders because of their industrious habits. He prides himself in doing more work than any other native man. He is subject in his official capacity to the French Governor. On the 27th we attended the morning service in the House of Prayer. After the close Hoatan, our fatherly chief, addressed the people.... The sea abounds with luxuries, and the land teems with good things.... The north star we cannot see, the grand cross is in the firmament over us. To the same God we pray and invoke blessings... - — Mrs. Addison Pratt 734 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. FRANCES OLDHAM KELSEY, a specialist on drugs, who serves with the United States Food and Drug Administration, is credited with preventing many babies — possibly thousands — from being born with deformities. She was instrumental in prohibiting the marketing of Thalidomide, a sleeping pill linked to deformities in the newborn. For this achievement, she was presented with the Government's highest civilian citation for distinguished service, at the White House, August 7, 1962. RS. MAUDE FRAZIER, a legislator of long standing from Clark County, Nevada, and also an educator, has been appointed by Governor Grant Sawyer to serve out the remainder of the term of the late Rex Bell as lieutenant governor. SPANISH girls are attending coeducational institutions more and more, breaking away from strictly Spanish customs, and adopting the styles of dress and manners current on the Continent. Interested in the political future of Spain, they are looking forward to greater freedom. (THE following facts, reported by the United States National Committee on the Status of Women, are of interest. Women make good physicians, and the United States should have more of them. About twenty-four million women in Sweden are working, approximately one third of the working population. There are more women pharmacists and dentists in France than in most other countries. MADAME BARBARA KARINSKA, in her seventies, personally designs ballet costumes exclusively for choreographer George Balanchine, but she heads a company which produces costumes for wide distribution, including the entire Metropolitan Opera cast — heroes, villains, and choruses. Hers is a difficult art. She says an actress can just stand and look beautifully garbed, but a ballet dancer must still appear beautiful while performing. Madame Karinska is an American citizen who fled from Russia in 1917. She received this year the eleventh annual Capezio Award for her contribution to dance culture. P= 3) EDITORIAL The Wages of Indulgence A woman of achievement wrote in her memoirs that, probably, the one thing that contributed to her success and kept her from "early ruin,' was the fact that she grew up during the depression years of the '30's and her parents couldn't give her money they didn't have. At least in her own mind, she believed that her parents would have granted her every wish and ended up by spoiling her, as they took away her incentives to work for her own desires and her development through working for her own advancement. It seems difficult for some parents to say no to their children, even when it is a matter of teaching obedience to law. Because of the pleadings of one young boy who was not old enough to obtain a driver's license, his father allowed him to drive, resulting in an accident of serious proportions. In walking through a supermarket, it 736 is interesting to observe the behavior of children in different family groups. Some mothers are besieged with requests which almost end up as commands. "I want that, why can't I have it? Mary's mother bought her one." The mother's initial refusal often ends up in a grudging yes, if the child continues begging long and loud enough. The children of another family may look just as longingly at the merchandise on display, but ask for nothing. It seems fairly obvious that the two family patterns are developing in different directions. An indulgent parent or grandparent can undermine a child's sense of values and the worth which he places upon his possessions. Contrast, in some instances, the care which a child gives to a bicycle for which he helped earn money to the care given by a child who was given a bicycle as soon as he expressed a desire for one. It is Natura] for parents to wish to help their children, Hands Across a Quilt Aleine M. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford and Sister Chiyuko Oko standing in front of the Relief Society Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. ANDS across a quilt, as well as hands across the sea, is a wonderful H way of bringing us closer to our lovely sisters in faraway Japan. Such was the feeling of Sister Chiyuko Oko, who left her home in Tokyo last April to attend the General Conference of the Church, to do some temple work, and to learn as much as she could about the Relief Society, which is very dear to her. The General Conference was a revelation to her, making her realize the magnitude of the Church and that it is now world-wide, with people from many countries meeting and worshiping together. She does not speak the English language, but this did not deter her from accomplishing her goals. Her Japanese sisters were happy to act as interpreters, and many other members of the Church joined in making her visit most enjoyable and profitable. Sister Oko and her husband, who passed away about a year ago, were previously members of the Buddhist religion, but, due to the kindness shown her husband by Latter-day Saint servicemen when he was seeking work, and to their invitations to attend the Latter-day Saint meetings of the servicemen in Japan, they both received a firm testimony of the gospel and were baptized in 1949. She said that they were impressed by the friendly atmosphere of the meetings, the Word of Wisdom, and the 738 Left to right: Mardis Motoki of the Dai-Ichi Branch Relief Society, Salt Lake City; Anne Shino, Dai-Ichi Branch; Lily Shino, hostess for the quilting party, and Work Director Counselor, Dai-Ichi Branch; Chiyuko Oko, work meeting leader, Tokyo North Branch Relief Society, Japan; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society. Belief in the work for the dead. Her great joy was that she was now able to take her endowments and do some temple work. She was the first native Relief Society president in Japan, and, at that time, sent a beautiful Japanese doll to each member of the Relief Society Presidency. When she visited the Relief Society Building, she was delighted to see a doll in a case in the office of each member of the Presidency. She said, "It is like a dream come true to see these dolls displayed in this beautiful building." At the present time Sister Oko is work meeting leader in the Tokyo North Branch Relief Society of the Northern Far East Mission. She reports that the sisters there are now working on their annual bazaar and are making the same type of articles that the sisters are making in this country, as well as some that are typically Japanese, such as kimonos and zabatons. Sister Oko was interested in every phase of the Relief Society as she is anxious that meetings in her branch be carried on just as they are throughout the rest of the world. She visited several ward meetings, a bazaar, and a stake convention, where she observed the wonderful handwork of the sisters and found many suggestions to take back to her sisters in Japan. 739 740 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 After seeing the many beautiful quilts on display at the convention and bazaar, and inasmuch as quilting has always been a tradition in Relief Society, she was particularly anxious to learn to quilt so that she could teach it to her sisters in the mission. So arrangements were made by Sister Lily Shino, Work Director Counselor of the new Dai-Ichi Branch of the Salt Lake Stake, to satisfy this desire. She invited a group of sisters, who were also anxious to learn to quilt, to her home for an old-fashioned quilting bee. Under the able direction of Sister Mattie Stembridge of Grant Stake, they were taught the art of putting a quilt on the frame and taking the small even stitches, not forgetting to prick their fingers just a little to be sure that they had sewed through both sides of the quilt. The sisters invited to learn with Sister Oko were Mardis Motoki and Anne Shino, also members of the Dai-Ichi Branch. Sister Oko spent a great deal of time in the temple, visiting friends and former missionaries, gaining information, and absorbing as much of the spirit of the Church as possible. Her mission accomplished, she returned to her own country in June. Did those first eighteen members of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo realize that this great organization would bring sisters together from all parts of the world in love and fellowship? Perhaps they did. Could they foresee, however, that the sisters in this country would be teaching an old American art to the sisters of a country where art is thousands of years old? God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform. Lweed lime Again Maude Rubin The in-betweenness of the season now Styles autumn tweed for mountain meadow-lands. Each northern slope is nubbed with flecks of snow And chilly wind whips loose the woodbine strands To scarlet ravelings.... A flicker's wings Weave rust through leafless woods, and pasture creeks Are narrow tinsel threads; now gathering For pinon nuts, in sudden vivid streaks Of indigo, these raucous mountain jays Are grumbling at the shortness of the days. A time for GIVING May Walkenhorst Christmas is a time for giving — not only of gifts, but of oneself. And what better way to express the thoughtfulness and spirit of the season than by giving a gift you took the time and effort to make or decorate by hand? In addition to handmade gifts having more meaning than commercial gifts, handmade articles can be economical as well. The cost of materials is small, and you may find most of the necessary items already on hand. For the Golfer Create your own "Golfie the Gloworm." 'The fun with this one is in the packaging of golf balls. The price will depend on how much you choose to pay for the balls. Stuff a white sock with six golf balls, tying the sock between each ball with wool yarn. Insert tees for legs; tie a ribbon to make the neck; use gummed stars for eyes above a glued-on paper mouth; and glittered pipe cleaners for feelers. 741 742 For a Child's Desk Use a small empty jar for creating a paper-weight snowstorm. Set a small plastic figure from the variety store in a mound of plaster of Paris the size of the jar neck. Glue the set plaster figure to a washer cut from an old inner tube the size of the inside of the jar lid. Fill the jar with water, adding one teaspoon of moth flakes. Insert the figure and screw the lid on tightly. Edge the lid with decorative tape. Cost, about fifty cents. Knitting Bag for a Doll Any little girl with a small "teenage' doll would love to have a miniature knitting bag which can be made for no cost at all, provided you saved the plastic container from the last tooth brush you bought. Using a razor blade, carefully cut the container down to 2!/" in height. Work a hole in each side with a hot needle or an ice pick for attaching a yarn handle. Roll up three tiny balls of yarn, tucking the ends under securely. Push two nails with small heads through the yarn balls to represent knitting needles, and place in the "bag." Replace the plastic cap, and stand by to watch a delighted face on Christmas day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 A TIME FOR GIVING 743 For a Convalescent Child Ww uy Cover a blank notebook with of brightly colored paper, bound with F decorative tape, giving the front a | B personal inscription to start young "wheels" in motion. Cost, less | & than fifty cents. | - STRATE For Little Learners Trace around a child's_ hand, allowing extra width for the thumb. Use this pattern to trace and cut four pieces of felt for "Stop" and "Go" mittens. Apply green letters for "Go" to one piece, and red letters for "Stop" to an opposite piece. Join the pieces together on the machine or by hand using the blanket stitch. 'These help a young child to learn the traffic signals and colors. Cost, about fifty cents. A Bib for a Boy Many instructions are given for making bibs for girl babies, but here's a bib idea just for boys: Cut a "V" in the center of the top and bottom of a washcloth or piece of terry toweling. Bind the edges with bias tape, and machine applique a folded strip down the front, extending on each side for ties. Stitch unfolded strips 114" long on each side for "pockets," and decorate the vest front with small buttons. Cost, about fifty cents. Recipes From Calgary Stake Submitted by Virginia N. Myers President, Calgary Stake Relief Society T our Relief Society Convention in Calgary (Canada) Stake, we served a sherbet which was so much enjoyed, and which received so many compliments, that we thought the sisters throughout the Church might like to have the recipe. Also, here in Canada, our weddings and parties are not complete without dainty cakes and "squares," as they are called. Included here are several other choice recipes from our good Canadian cooks. Three-Fruit Sherbet 3 Cc. Sugar 1—4 oz. Bottle maraschino cherries, 3 lemons (juice of) quartered and drained 3 bananas, mashed 1 tall can evaporated milk (14/2 ounces) 1—4 oz. Can pineapple, crushed 1 c. Whipping cream milk to fill 4-quart freezer Mix all ingredients and freeze in a 4-quart freezer. Raspberry Squares ¥ ¢. Butter 4 tbsp. Raspberry jam 1 c. Flour Cover with topping as follows 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 C. Sugar Cream together and add: 1 tbsp. Butter 1 ©8& 1 ¢gs 1 tbsp. Milk 2 c. Coconut Press batter in 8" x 8" pan and 1 tbsp. Vanilla spread with: Bake at 325° for 25 minutes. Cut into 1-inch squares. Pecan Rolls "2 |b. Butter 2 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Powdered sugar 2 c. Pecans 2 c. Sifted flour "2 tsp. Salt Mix in order given. Shape in fingers. Bake at 300° for 30 minutes. Pale in color when done. Roll in powdered sugar while hot. Will be Nut Smacks Yc. Sugar 1 c. Flour ¥ c. Butter 1 tsp. Baking powder Cream together and add: 1 tsp vanilla 2 egg yolks Press into 8" x 8" pan and cover with the following topping: 2 egg whites, beaten stiff 1 c. Chopped walnuts 1 c. Brown sugar Bake slowly at 325° for 30 minutes. 744 RECIPES FROM CALGARY STAKE 745 Nanaimo Bars - First Part Cream 1% c. Shortening, add % c. Sugar and 1 egg Mix separately: 2 c. Crushed graham wafers Y, c. Chopped walnuts 5 tbsp. Cocoa 1 c. Coconut Add to above and spread in pan. SECOND PART 2 tbsp. Custard powder ) "% c. Shortening (or vanilla pudding mix, not instant) 2 c. Icing (powdered) sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla (if powder is used) 3 tbsp. Cream Cream above mixture and spread on first part. IcING 1 tsp. Butter, or other shortening 4 squares chocolate, melted Mix and pour over above Mark in squares and store in refrigerator. Ome VIET CINC be| — A — 1 can sweetened condensed milk 1 tsp. Almond flavoring (5% ounces) 2 8-ounce packages fine coconut 2 C. Icing sugar Mix all together, tint a pale pink. Press into buttered loaf pan and chill in refrigerator. Then shape like wedding bells. Place a silver candy on top. May also be colored green and shaped as wreaths for Christmas. In Summer's Wake Eva Willes Wangsgaard I stand above exotic tropic bloom Begonias yield within their sun-flecked shade, The hose relinquishing a silver plume Of liquid life to burnish leafy jade. While all about petunias climb and spread High up the fence and over moistened roots. Bright garlanded in apples overhead, The Hopa crabtree molds its crimson fruit. Yet something indefinable repeats A thin familiar warning "'Autumn's near." And deep within me smoldering protests beat A sharp denial to the waning year. Each mellow moment caught in summer's wake Tempers my joy with its peculiar ache. N4, ELLE ER rr LLL LLLLL 777) " for Sa So a Christmas Adelle Ashby Cheery as Christmas itself are these tree-shaped place mats with matching napkins (Figure 1), and the gay, colorful shopping bag (Figure 2). Both are easy to sew and inexpensive, and they make a good pre-Christmas sewing project. The Christmas trees make your holiday table a joy to look at, and whether you use them as place mats, or march them along the tablecloth as center pieces, they are attractive. The shopping bag will add an extra bit of Christmas glamor and fun to your Christmas shopping, as well as being practical. The bag is much more attractive than a paper bag and will not fall apart or tear when out in the rain or snow. It is also handy and useful for carrying records and books, or sewing and knitting. Make one for everyone in the family, from grandmother to teenager. 141 748 For the place mats, you will need: 2 yards of broadcloth, or linen, emerald green. 17 yards of white sawtooth trim, or jumbo rickrack. To Make: 1. Make a triangular paper pattern for the tree, the base measuring 1614", the height 1434", and the sides 16". Cut six of these triangular trees from the fabric. 2. Mark where the horizontal trimming lines go on the tree, by placing the first line 21/4," from the tree point, then space the remaining lines 3" apart. 3. Cut six tree trunks from scraps, each 314," by 4". 4. Fold the trunk in half lengthwise. Seam the sides, leaving the top edge open. Turn to the night side and press. 5. Fold the lower edge of the tree 14," up to the right side and press. Center and stitch the unfinished edge of the trunk over this folded edge. 6. Now stitch a row of trim over this raw folded edge with two rows of stitching on the trim to hold it fast. 7. Stitch the rows of trim on the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 tree, horizontally, and clip the ends even with the outside edge of the tree. 8. Fold and press the outside edges of the tree 14" to the right side, then sew a row of trim all around the outside of the tree to cover this raw edge. For the napkins, you will need: 1 yard 36" material to make 12 napkins, each 9" square, or more cloth, if larger napkins are desired. To Make: 1. Cut cloth 9" square, or larger if desired, and wider material is used. 2. Narrowly hem all the edges of the napkins. 3. Top stitch a row of trim over the hem at one corner 6" along one edge. Fold a miter at the corner and continue with 6" along the adjacent edge. Finish the ends neatly. For the shopping bag: You will need 14 yard of green sailcloth or other heavy fabric, 1% yards of jumbo rickrack, red, and 11/4, yards of white jumbo rickrack. Also Y yard of red satin ribbon, 1" wide. TWO HANDY GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS Sb 2 > FF eS™ Pr Srvg? Grain To make the candy cane motif: 1. Stitch the ends of the red and white rickrack together and _ interlock them together all along by putting one point over the other, similar to braiding, only with two strands. Catch the other ends with stitches, and press. 2. Cut a 20" strip of this interlocked rickrack to use for the candy 7 — ", oe ee eee ee 749 To make bag: 1. Cut two rectangles of the cloth, both measuring 18" by 14". 2. Cut two handles from the cloth 14" by 314". Fold the long way and press to triple thickness. Now stitch securely along the edges. 3. Apply the candy cane design (directions for making candy canes are given below) on one piece of sailcloth. 4. With right sides together, stitch the seams at long sides and lower edge. Invert and press. 5. Fold and press under 2" for the top hem. Stitch. 6. Center and pin the handle ends to the wrong side of the front and back hem 3" below the edge of the bag. Firmly stitch the ends to the bag and then stitch again at the top edge of the bag. Wwe wwe wwe we cane. Form the cane-shape diagonally onto one piece of the sailcloth and stitch in place, folding the raw edges under. Stitch the remaining interlocked rickrack onto the i inner edge of the top hem of the bag so that only the points of the rickrack show. 4. Tack the satin bow and a tiny bell where indicated on candy cane. Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 4 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come with her family to their mining property in Montana, planning to oversee the assessment work which must be done to hold the property. In the mountain wilderness Marian meets Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent property, whose motives she mistrusts. ARIAN put the bucket of M water down. Her fingers were suddenly too weak to hold onto the handle. Jake picked it up and started towards the cabin with the long strides of a confident man. For a minute she could not follow him, then, knowing there was nothing else to do, she turned and made one foot go in front of the other. At the cabin door Jake stood waiting for her, looking at her, and she felt uncomfortable, like a schoolgirl caught by the football captain with her hair amiss. "Sure is a lot to be done around here," Jake told her, not seeming to notice her embarrassment, and yet at the same time enjoying it. "Yes, but Jim and I." "IT have a full crew at my mine this year. 'That gives me some spare time." Jake was a big man and now he was in the doorway. Marian could not get past to open the door. She had to stand there, 7150 not knowing what to do. She had felt this way once before, when she was in a play at school, and the leading boy wouldn't give her the right cues. "Maybe I could come and help out some each day. You would be surprised what a little paint and fixing can do to a place like this." "Yes, I suppose so, but we hadn't planned." "Oh, should I take this in?" he indicated the water bucket, and she knew he had timed his question to interrupt her objections. Jim looked up from the table where he had been working all morning, making lists and planning. At the sight of Jake, he got up and took the bucket. He didn't say anything. He just looked at his mother and then at Jake and set the bucket on the drainboard. "Howdy, son," Jake said, "I was just telling your mother how much there is to be done around here. Why, the work on the cabin alone would cost quite a bit, and take a lot of time, not to mention the work on that old worthless mine." "Yes, we know," Jim said, "we plan." "T bet if you were to add up all the cost of the improvements that need to be done around here, and OUT OF THE WILDERNESS the cost of the labor it would take, you would be going way in the hole each year. Now, I'd suggest you let me help you." "We don't need any help." Jim was suddenly like a young cil trying to protect what was his. "Now, wait a minute, son. There's no use to get all upset." Jake had a half-smile on his face. It was as though he were enjoying Jim's upset. "I only want to help you." "T told you we don't need any help." Jim's words were measured. "We can get along just fine." ARIAN could see that Jim was angered. "Just what is it that you want, Mr. Hadley?" she asked. Jake's grin disappeared at the unexpected firmness in Marian's voice. "Well, I thought you might consider selling out. I'm prepared to give you a good deal, and you'd be wise to accept." Marian thought of the leaky roof, the ugly black stove, Sue's frightened screams at the sight of a little animal. She thought of the bare floors and the old scrubboard. "Well, we hadn't thought about it, but maybe." "Mom! You wouldn't. You just wouldn't!"' "Don't decide just yet." Jake looked at Jim and then back at Marian. "I never did believe in hasty decisions. I'll come back in a week or two." Jake left then, and there was silence between mother and son. Jim stood at the doorway with bent shoulders and Marian sat down near the table. Then Jim said, "Mom, you really hate this place, don't you?" His 751 words were like something he didn't want to say but had to. "No, dear, I don't hate it, exactly," Marian spoke slowly. She wanted to tell him how she truly felt and didn't know how. "It's more that I just don't understand the cabin, the forest.... I'm just not at home here." "Mom, please don't sell. Keep it for... For when I grow up. I want to have it always. Please, Mom. You won't have to come back ever again. I'll take care of it from now on." "We'll see, son. Now, tell me what all this is." She picked up one of the papers he had been working on. "Dad told me that each year we have to do $150 worth of improvements for each claim we have. I am figuring out how much money I'm going to have to charge myself per hour to add up to the right amount." "Charge yourself?" "Yes, you see, I won't really collect any money. 'That's how Dad and I did before. You just estimate how much your time is worth. If you had to hire the help, that is " He stopped, not being able to find the words to explain. "T think I understand." Marian felt his need for understanding. "You are sort of making a bid on the job, but instead of hiring anyone, you do the work for yourself, is that it?" Jim looked relieved. "Yes, and I have to figure how long each job is going to take me to make it come to the nght amount." "What jobs are you planning to do, Jim?" "Tll have to dig a shallow ditch along the railway back into the mine 7152 so that the water can drain out. That's one of the things we've had to do each year, so I know how. Then [ll have to fill in all the chuck holes in the road that leads to the mine from the cabin. They are pretty bad this year. That will take quite awhile." "But, I don't see how digging along a track that no mine cars are going to go on, and filling in chuck holes on a road that no automobile will travel on, is going to accomplish anything,' Marian told him. "Mom," Jim began, then whatever he was going to say, he decided against it and began anew. "'Let's just say that it's sort of the rules. Anything you do to improve the mine, keeps your lease for you." His voice was patient, as though he were explaining something to a child. ARIAN looked at her halfgrown son in a new light. She could see that he knew what he must do, and just as she had let David make plans, she must now let Jim. It was a comfortable feeling, having an almost-grown son, and she smiled to herself as he went on telling her of the way he was going to haul dirt with the wheelbarrow to fill in the pit holes, and what a job it would be to cut down some small trees for replacing some of the badly rotted timber in the mine. He ended his explanation with a faraway look. "Someday I'll be able to go deep into the mine as far as Dad did, and make a lot more repairs. Maybe next year." "Jim, the mine isn't any good any more, is it?" "No ore has been taken out for a long time. Costs too much to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 ship it. It used to be one of the richest mines around here, but shipping costs went up. Dad told me that if somcone ever builds a mill close, it could pay again." "Then why did your father want to keep it? Why do you?" "It isn't only the mine, mother. It's the land. Its." His words ended, but in his eyes, the dream continued. Marian knew what he was feeling and how deep the feeling was within him. She hadn't known in time for David, but she was thankful that she did know for Jim. Marian got up and looked out of the window to check on the children. They were still playing near the cabin. They had been all morning, and now besides little colorful rocks, their collection included pine cones and snail shells from along the bank of the small stream. Marian was glad that Sue no longer felt the need for the protection the cabin afforded. She seemed almost as much at home outside as did the bovs. Jim was busy writing more figures, so Marian got out her cookbook and turned to her grandmothers bread recipe. 'The batch she made long years ago had not turned out well, and she had given it up. But now there wasn't a grocery store handy on the corner, and she knew she had to learn. We can't eat baking-powder biscuits the rest of the summer, she told herself. "Mom, do you suppose Ted and Jed could help me?" Jim looked up from the table. "T think they could. They're ten, and pretty husky." A smile spread over Jim's face. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "T used to help Dad plenty when I was ten. I could handle a shovel fairly well, and could help smooth and tramp down the dirt on the road. I dragged trees to the mine and." He picked up his pencil and made a new row of figures. "There, that ought to do it," he said and folded the papers. "Pll go to the mine this afternoon and look things over, and then tomorrow I['ll get a good early start on my work." "What about the roof?" Marian was reluctant to mention it, but she didn't want to go through another rainstorm without its being fixed. "Oh, yes, I almost forgot.." "Are you sure you can do it?" "Yes, I helped Dad with the woodshed." ARIAN stirred and measured and smiled to herself as she thought how like a man it was to tarpaper an old shed first and let the house go. And in so thinking, a feeling of loneliness for her husband filled her. She stirred faster and tried to see the words on the page, but they were dancing through her tears. Jim went out, and Marian knew that more than the wilderness of her surroundings, or fear of the unknown, she would have trouble conquering loneliness of heart, and the wilderness of her soul. Marian gave the fresh dough a final pat and covered it with a clean cloth. She went out into the dooryard and watched the children. Her eyes swept across the stretch of blue sky circled by giant green pines. She looked at the road which led to the mine, and it seemed to beckon her, but she could not follow. The mine had somehow been an enemy 7153 all these years. Maybe tomorrow she could follow the short road and make the mine her friend, but not today. Today, she would make some hot suds in an old bucket and scrub the bare boards clean with a_ sturdy brush. She would find the hammer and nails in the shed and try to fix the loose boards along the wall and in the floor. She would wash the windows and have Sue shine them with bits of torn newspapers, and she would look for some wire or rope to make a clothesline between two trees. Marian went into the shed and hunted for nails and wire with a warty eye. She remembered the spiders she had encountered in the shed as a bride. Picking up boxes, and looking in old crocks, she happened to find a large shoebox filled with seeds. There were packages of carrots, peas, radishes, and lettuce. "Jed," Marian stepped outside the shed, "look, I've found some seeds. Would you and Ted run up to the mine and tell Jim to bring the shovel when he comes? We're going to plant a garden!" The twins hurried along. 'They enjoyed being near the mine and were glad for an excuse to go there. "Mommy, what's a garden?" Jill asked. "Oh, don't you know anything, jill?" 'Tommy said. "A garden is a field with cows and horses and hay in it, like at Grandma's." "Not that kind of a garden," Sue corrected, "ours will have... What will ours have, Mom?" "See? Carrots, peas, lettuce. 1 found them in the shed." "T don't like peas and carrots." Tommy screwed up his nose. 7154 "You'll like these, fresh from our own garden." "T like cows and horses," said Jill. Marian laughed and hugged her baby close to her. She was so glad for the prospect of a new project, especially a garden to tend. "Here comes Jim already," pointed Sue. "And he's got something." ARIAN looked. Jim and the twins were just coming out of the wooded area, into the clearing. Jim was holding something—an animal, with long legs.. Jed and Ted were having a hard time keeping up with Jim's long strides. He was very disturbed, and for a moment Marian was frightened, then as he neared her, her fears turned to compassion. "What is it?" "A fawn, Mother. Just a little fellow, left to die." Jim stooped and tenderly laid the bewildered little animal down on a grassy spot near the shed. "Left to die?" Marian knelt with Jim, and so did the children, all but Sue, who kept a little distance away. "Mom, how could anyone...?" Marian looked at Jim. His mouth was drawn in a hard line and his face muscles were tightening. "How could anyone do what, son?" "Someone killed the mother deer and left the fawn to go it on his? Own. "Killed his mother?" 'Tommy asked, his big blue eyes wide. "Maybe they didn't know about the fawn," Marian said. "Maybe they didn't kill her, maybe she just got sick and died," Ted suggested. "Maybe he's an orphan," Jed said. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 "Yes, an orphan," peated. "He's an orphan, all right." Jim rubbed the deer's head and then patted him on the side. "Jim, what makes you think someone killed the deer?" "T found the fawn first, and then could see where something had been dragged through the brush to a big tree. And there at the bottom of the trunk, were the feet and part of the hide where they had cleaned her." "Maybe someone was lost and hungry. They might have had to do it, Jim." "No. 'Those miners do this all the time — shoot them out of season. I heard Dad talking about it. We found one once. It was on our property that time, too." Jim's eyes Tommy re narrowed. "Now I know where I saw Jake before. Dad was talking to him... Telling him it was wrong." Marian put her hand on Jim's shoulder. "Don't, Jim. Don't feel so strongly about it. You're not sure Jake did it. Maybe it was someone else." Jim pulled himself from her. "Stay close to him, so he won't get up and run. I'm going to see what I can find to make a pen with." "Mommy, is that a horse or a cow?" Jill asked. "It's a baby deer, sweetie. What shall we name him?" And while the children were suggesting one name after another, Marian's heart went out to Jim. He is so intense, she thought, and so lacking in judgment. I dare not think of what may happen if Jake comes back here again. (To be continued) New Desian Lucille R. Perry October's air has disciplined the vine Whose restless march entwined the porch in green; Shorter days have shaped the new design Of arrowed flocks, and time, caught in between The sweet and somber seasons, join the two In wedded beauty — a rose unwilted grows Beside the border of chrysanthemum. Like a wind-twirled prism, earth delights In tawny color, while westward evening comes With deep blue mists foretelling winter nights. 15 Part VI — "Bid Them Farewell" (Conclusion) Ilene H. Kingsbury 1 7 OW, the emigrant was con- ~\ cerned with only the immediate past of Uncle David. This was a past of victory for her brother whose songs echoed the Merthyr hills, filled the gentle valleys of Wales and sent reverberations straight to the great national song fest called an Eisteddfod. His mother's dream had come true. His medals of honor lined the mantel for all to see. Look closely. The one attached to a gold chain had the picture of the Queen on one side. On the reverse was a wreath, a motto, a date, a name. One summet's day the "Swedish Nightingale" Jenny Lind had unclasped_ that chain from around her neck and, in the seeing of thousands, placed it about the neck of Uncle David. He had fairly won this treasure from the wor]d-loved voice of song. When he made his way home up the Cardiff Valley to Merthyr, his kindred and friends met him afar off. They mingled their voices with his. They knew joy. In a sort of ceremony the medallion had been passed from one admiring hand to another. 'Then, with near reverence, it was placed 156 among other wonderful honors. When the emigrant mother and her five children viewed this memento for the last time, they all wondered what would become of it after Uncle David no longer could catch the gleam from its surface. At this point in the story the emigrant unloosed the drawstrings of her little velvet bag and unfolded a white silk handkerchief most carefully. 'There, before their very eyes, reposed Uncle David's chain and medal! All hands reached to caress it. All eyes feasted on its beauty. All hearts wondered just how it was that their mother could now quite magically produce the very item they believed back across the great Atlantic. They all smiled and hummed as she explained that at the last minute Uncle David had very secretly pressed it into her hands. To cover its beautiful presence he had drawn his handkerchief from his pocket and swaddled it carefully in silken folds. He had exacted a promise from his sister to keep it as a remembrance and perhaps, in some far-off place, award it to a sweet-voiced niece or nephew. She had promised. HAND TO THE PLOW "T want to wear it!' demanded little Sannie. Her mother quickly slipped the chain about the little neck, and Sannie instantly became a beautiful singing princess who was loved by all the world. 'The problem then became how to get the chain off of her. The mother decided to let Sannie wear it at least until sunset. At that moment David, the namesake of Uncle David, said that, well, if he couldn't sing very well, at least his was not a bad voice, and perhaps he should have it. The brothers and sisters laughed at him. His looks of misery startled them. How else could they know that he had yearned for that piece of honor from the moment Uncle David had placed it on the mantel? Mothers are masters of compromise. 'The emigrant now made a most unusual one. She leaned forward, released the special spring that held the medal to the chain and, with a quick thrust, laid it in the palm of David's hand. He was as speechless as the rest. "That's it!" she said. William blinked incredulously. Eddie felt called on to remark that the thing looked like a common old shilling piece to him, which in America was worth about twenty-four and a third cents. It couldn't be so great, then, could it? [AvID flipped the gold piece from side to side. He ran his thumbnail along the minted wreath, he wet his forefinger and pressed it against the raised surface. How it gleamed! How it beckoned the glance to stay and admire. He tossed it from one hand to the other, he 757 pretended to make it disappear, which frightened his mother. He became quite adept at spinning it on the arm of the pew seat. But games and stories and gifts were not the entire order of that war-torn afternoon. 'The writhing train lurched, shuddered, and Shrieked. It shunted itself to a sidetrack. 'The boys tried to ascertain the cause of such a commotion. Their secret hopes had at last been realized — they were in the war! Great logs had been thrown across the track just ahead. The repairmen had ceased to try to remove them. Instead, they had come running toward the train yelling of disaster and waving hats and shovels. The only fortunate aspect was that the siding was near, and a temporary refuge could be claimed. Eddie and William jumped off the still moving car and ran forward to the engine. David sat down again with disdain for such trivial excitement, for wasn't he now the owner of a gold piece that money could not buy? A noise resembling a wail, a moan, a cry of distress was heard coming from outside. The roll of a drum officially announced the approach of army men who had power to capture, impress, or conscript soldiers for their cause. The word was screamed from car to car that soon every man and boy who could carry a gun would be dragged away. 'Terror swept every soul. A cringing of size was apparent in each traveler. A prayer ascended for preservation from this bloody conflict. Each mother feared the day when she could no longer say her son stood 758 beside her, but was a memory of this day of horror. The emigrant now remembered every word the station agent had said about this thing called conscription. 'This forced enlistment was a part of every war, she knew that, but this was so newly her country and thus not quite the part of her that Wales had been, that she was not ready to spill the blood of herself and children that it might endure. Loyalty she knew. Honor she had lived for. But give them a chance of decision, a moment to stride about these ways, a day in which to become a part of their new land. LREADY the mother had lost sight of two of her boys. Heaven help them now. In haste she tore off her shawl and tall black hat and draped them around the head and shoulders of David. His little sisters began to laugh at the sight of their handsome brother looking all of a sudden like an old woman. He was about to shove them to silence and toss off this feminine disguise when some men of uncouth looks entered the car. The emigrant glanced in panic at the two girls now huddled in a far corner of their little sanctuary. Quickly she sat down beside David and gently turned his shoulders with her own so his face was averted from the aisle. Inexorably stomped the recruiters. They dragged a youth from the arms of his dear ones. He was no longer a traveler, an emigrant, a free man. He was a soldier in a war. As the men approached David they seemed to suspect that here was an odd creature. But then, one couldn't always tell about these RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 foreigners. Didn't they? One of the Southerners tried to peer beneath the brim of the hat. In doing this his eyes caught a gleam of gold. He snatched at David's hand. Wasn't money better than a taw boy who probably couldn't speak English and might run away from camp when the back was turned? 'The four travelers involved were paralyzed with fear. Pray now little mother. This is the most crucial moment of your days. The man suddenly dropped the hand that held the medal and tainted the air with an oath. He straightened up, twisted himself about so as to extricate himself from the property of these queer people, and stumbled toward his companion. No breath was drawn. Only hearts burst with fright. This man, then, waved his arms and in excited phrases fairly yelled his displeasure. "See that piece of money? 'That's the kind English sailors give to boys they want to spirit away to the sea! First they get these boys dead drunk, then they put a shilling in their hands as the sign that they now belong to the Queen's navy. When the boys get to know anything, and see the com in theit hand, then they know that they have to go to sea. Conscription, they call it. Say, now, I never thought that the Union boys were putting this trick to practice. If they have been through this train, they must be hiding near in the hills. Get out of here!" The two soldiers hunched their shoulders and quickly sidled out of the car. They forgot to take with them the lad they had already captured! Dressed awfully funny, HAND TO THE PLOW THE emigrant mother had always believed in miracles. Here, indeed, was one right under her very nose. David brushed aside the hat, then leaned over and placed it on his mother's head. At the same moment he kissed her on the cheek. He folded the shawl and laid it on her lap. Then, with a grin of inner satisfaction, that of knowing all the time how things would turn out, he tossed Uncle David's present from Jenny Lind high in the air and caught it with a swoop of his hand. The little girls laughed at this sign of confidence. The mother said nothing. The noise outside the train was as loud as when the warning was raised, but now it took on the nature of spectators at a parade who cheer the floats and the horses and the marshal of the day and generally feel that this is a jubilee. However, as the emigrant counted her children, she knew that her two other boys were nowhere to be seen. She got a wider view of how the land lay by looking up and down the tracks on each side of the train. She could not recognize them among the throng of workers and travelers. She noticed that each person had a feeling of questioning, a thought of wondering why the men had left so suddenly — and that without taking a single conscript with them. Funny people, those from the South. The emigrant became frantic for the whereabouts of William and Eddie. She ran to the engine end of the train, all the while searching for a clue to their whereabouts. Her strength was about gone by now, and she thought to sit down 159 on a railroad tie that was part of the usual supply along the tracks. As she did so she heard her name called. As she looked up she just could not believe what she saw. There was William standing on a part of the engine, the sort of running boards kind of platform near the huge boiler. He looked like a worker for the railroad, for on his head he wore a tight fitting cap with a little visor front. In his hand he held a small bucket of grease. He called down to her. "Mother! See, I am a tallowpot!" If he had said he was a man from Mars she would not have been more astonished. He took a flying leap from the side of the hot boiler and landed almost at her feet. "See what I have been doing! Just as I got to the front of the train the troops came riding up. I didn't know what to do or where to hide. The man in the cab window called to me, put his hat on my head, and this tallowpot in my hand, and said to climb on the engine and pretend I worked for him. As I poured tallow into the steam chest where all the valves were, I thought I would be burned alive. 'The rail man ordered me to be a little more careful or we would all be on fire. As the troops rode by they thought I was a real tallowpot and didn't stop to take me to the war." A flash of thought shook the emigrant. If only one could have enough hats handy, one could work a miracle with each of them. How sacrilegious a thought. But now was no time to straighten out such a tricky thought. She stood up and walked back to her part of the train. She glanced quickly about, search- 760 ing for Eddie. All of a sudden there he was running toward het. He put his arm about her shoulder. "Mother, guess what happened?" She could not reply. "T lost William just as the soldiers came riding in so I crawled under the logs that had been covering the track. 'The horses jumped right over me once, and I thought it was judgment day at last. After they rode away I wiggled out, and here I am." A mother certainly has a lot to endure, thought this one, whose three sons were still hers, whose lives she could guard and guide and take on to the valley. Do not wait for nightfall for silence to pray, do [- C =~ ol ~~ JIU RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 not wait for silence and calm, do not wait to say that word of gratitude for prayers answered by miracle. The journey continued when the logs were removed and the soldiers were no longer a menace. As the wheels rolled and the smoke of the wood burner up front became as a mantle over the top of the train, the mother thought that the war and the Bend and the ocean were better left in the past. For now she faced the West, and there was no turning back. She gathered her children around her as twilight descended and the evening enclosed them under the watchcare of the Lord. Teaaltealy=\a C a P ws | JONG Viola Ashton Candland October, let me savor Your mellow, ripened days Of Indian summer flavor, Before cold winter flays All nature with its icy whip. October, your elixir is sweet upon my lip. October, let me gather A beautiful bouquet. Too soon the frosty weather Lays waste your fine array Of autumn-clad chrysanthemums. October, hold them tenderly until November comes. October, let me glean from you Tranquility in age; Let Indian summer's warmth imbue Me with the faith to gauge The waning-season's worth. October, let me hoard your wealth Against the winter's dearth. Dorthea Strom Knits Sweaters For Missionaries has many talents, but she js most knitting sweaters. She has made many of the handwork crafts an expert in other handicraft, pillows, quilting, and making nd teaches other women her beloved among her associates and rememes she has served and befriended. General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field' in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Central Atlantic States Mission, Danville (Virginia) Branch Anniversary Program, March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elsie Yarbrough, President; Myrtle Morris; Grace Martin; Pauline Walker; Beulah Doss; Virginia Hinton; Ora Garner; Lucy Lowe; Ella Rader; Minnie Compton; Hattie Overstreet. Catharine W. Aposhian, President, Central Atlantic States Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society of the Danville Branch had a special program on March 17, 1962, in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. It was a special occasion for the small branch, with a larger than usual number in attendance. An account of the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith was given by Elsie Yarbrough. Also included in the program was the reading of some beautiful poetry by Pauline Walker. There were also some special musical numbers. The color scheme of blue and gold, Relief Society colors, was used in the decorations and refreshments." 762 NOTES FROM THe FIELD 763 Weiser Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Weiser-Nyssa Stake Relief Society Convention April 24, 1962 Seated on the stand, left to right: Marion Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society; Irene H. Baxter, President, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Elder Evern O. Youngberg, President, Weiser Stake; Elder Dehlin A. Erickson, President, Nyssa Stake; Irene B. Woodford and Irene C. Lloyd, of the General Board of Relief Society. Standing at the left of the chorus: Pauline Jensen, chorister, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Jeanette Thornock, organist. Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music 190 for Stake Conference, March 18, 1962 Seated, front center, in dark dress: Betty Erickson, chorister; Marilyn Madsen, organist, seated at the right of Sister Erickson. Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake Singing Mothers chorus numbered ninety-four, although some of the sisters were unable to be present when the picture was taken. This group is newly organized, and we were proud and thrilled at their performance in rendering four beautiful songs, which added much to the spirit of the conference. We love and appreciate these sisters for their service. Many hours were spent in practice in preparation for stake conference and other occasions. Much credit goes to our stake chorister and organist for their untiring efforts in bringing this group together." | | | 164 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 St. George Stake (Utah), St. George Second Ward Relief Society Presidents Honored at Birthday Social, March 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Rosilla B. Porter; Paula Mathis; Hazel Bradshaw; Zetta W. Stucki; Hannah Wells. Back row, standing left to right: Marie Booth; Louise Englestead; Barbara Hunt; Bertha Weaver; Nola Jones. Violet C. Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: 'All ten Relief Society presidents of St. George Second Ward attended the social, representing thirty years of service. ''o commemorate these years of service, a skit written b Cleo Gentry, pointed up special and amusing incidents in the work of each of the former presidents. Each sister was given an appropriate gift in commemoration of her services." New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Honors Visiting Teachers at Social January 15, 1962 Seated, left to right, honored visiting teachers: Grace Nicol; Mary Brian; Anna Westbrook; Iris James; Myrtle Bankston; Lena Brian; Lula Smith; Irene Crawford. Standing, left to mght: Gloria Phillips, stake Magazine representative; Mollie Brady, stake Secretary-Treasurer; Cleora Williams, stake Second Counselor; Lea Larson, stake President; Florence Chapman, Stake First Counselor; Fern Wakefield, garment representative; Dolores Brian, stake visiting teacher message leader; Mary Nelson, stake literature leader; Joyce Grigg, stake chorister. Sister Larson reports: '"'A social honoring all visiting teachers in New Orleans Stake was held in the Baton Rouge Ward Chapel. 'This area covers most of the southern half of Louisiana. Visiting teachers with over fifteen years of service were presented corsages which had all been handmade by Second Counselor Cleora Williams. Record cold weather conditions throughout the State failed to daunt seventy-two sisters from attending this social, the first of its kind since the stake was organized in 1955. A luncheon, featuring seafood gumbo, was served, and the theme 'messengers of love and service' was carried out in the table decorations, as well as in the program which followed the luncheon. It was a rewarding day for all attending." East Long Beach Stake (California) Inter-Faith Social May 25. 1962 At the right: Gladys Phillips, theology class leader. Melva Orgill, President, East Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very lovely inter-faith social was held May 25, 1962. A program designed to explain the history, purposes, and activities of Relief Society through words and music, was well accepted by those in attendance. The adjoining hall was then opened to allow the group to view closely and leisurely demonstrations and displays of all phases of the Relief Society program: the educational program, the homemaking program, the recreational program, the Welfare program, and other activities. Light refreshments were served, as well as samples of bread, candies, relishes, and other foods distributed from the demonstrations. This social was felt to be a most successful activity, with many women joining their hands and hearts to show nonmember friends the greatness of Relief Society. The picture represents the theology display." — -_ 11% SBS ea am < ain! 'wp aware, ee wee & ae — mgs ve neat ban vin ton ater 088 SE gots ph ye gee ae s Ate we eax be te 2% 24 % is. * Bs "3: Hite Fiare ' alla nae ian kp, Wa "s; a A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 South Carolina Stake Relief Society Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society, March 17, 1962 Left to mnght: stake board members Fannie Thornton, Sylvia Bass, Carolyn Hurren, Bernice Kneece and Alice Voyles; Lottie P. Joyner, First Counselor, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Elder Benjamin W. Wilkerson, President, South Carolina Stake; Harriet W. Capps, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Malcolm B. Fagan, Second Counselor; Nellie Opie, Melba Ross, Donna Jensen; Geraldine D. Petty, Secretary-T reasurer. Sister Capps reports: "The South Carolina Stake Relief Society celebrated the 120th birthday of Relief Society on March 17, 1962. Refreshments were served before leadership meeting began. Members of the stake board were attired in costumes, similar to those worn by the sisters of the first Relief Society in 1842." Palmyra Stake (Utah), Spanish Fork Sixth Ward Relief Society Presents "The Relief Society Memory Book," March 20, 1962 Left side, seated, left to mght: Ann Leek, as Emma Smith; Effie Sorensen, as Clarissa Williams; May Christopherson, as Emmeline B. Wells. Left side, standing, left to right: Edith Ludlow, as Eliza R. Snow; Flora Belle Davis, as Zina D. H. Young; Delores Nelson, ward chorister; Luana Clark, ward organist; Vera Jenkins, as Bathsheba W. Smith. | Right side, seated, left to night: Jennie Dart, as Amy Brown Lyman; Lula Hermenson, as Belle S. Spafford; Dora Stewart, as Louise Y. Robison. Right side, standing, left to mght: Kay Lowe, director; Helen Olsen, narrator; Zelma Hair, President, Sixth Ward Relief Society; Blanche Bradford, First Counselor; Emma Hancock, Second Counselor; Ruth Hancock, Secretary-Treasurer. Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society, reports: 'This was one of the best and most exciting Seventeenth of March affairs we have ever had. To see so many of the older women participating and happy over the event was a great thrill to us, and we sincerely feel that there is no better way to learn of the lives of great women in our Church and in Relief Society, and to enjoy each other's association, than by accomplishing such a presentation. The nine general presidents of Relief Society were represented in an oval opening of the album. Special tributes were given to the Sixth Ward Relief Society presidency. The play was written by Virginia D. Clark, with revision and additions by Marianne C. Sharp and Alberta H. Christensen, and directed by Kay Lowe. Small portraits of each president were placed in silver frames and given to each sister present." South Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Stake Relief Society President Ilene S. Bagley stands first on the right in the second row, as a member of the chorus. Standing in front: Blanche J. Ellis, Education Counselor, who was the author of the continuity and one of the narrators for the May 4th concert; Maurine M. Haycock, Work Director Counselor, who acted as publicity chairman for the concert; Gladys C. Van de Merwe, narrator; Mona M. Jensen, stake chorister; Inez C. Tanner, stake Organist, seated at the piano. Sister Bagley reports: "The South Davis Stake Singing Mothers chorus of sixty voices began rehearsing in February 1962, in preparation for stake conference, which was held in March, and for a concert held on May 4th, as well as for the two-stake Relief Society convention held in conjunction with Bountiful South Stake. Twelve numbers were learned by the group and artfully presented on these occasions. The concert was the musical highlight of the year in the stake. It is hoped that this will become an annual affair. Each of the stake board members was given an individual assignment concerning the concert, and all were co-partners in its success." 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Seattle Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, left to right: Stake Relief Society President Phyllis Unbedacht; Ella Glick, organist; six ward choristers who assisted in training the Singing Mothers; Jacquelin Holt, stake chorister; Grace Collette and Cemoria Frankman, Counselors, Seattle Stake Relief Society. Sister Unbedacht reports: "We are having a fine year for our stake Singing Mothers, who sang for our visiting teachers convention on February 7th; our Relief Society convention on May 11th; for the morning session of stake conference on May 20th; and on May 3ist presented a concert at the stake center for the member. Ship and their friends. The bishops of the wards have also been using the ward groups in their meetings. We are indeed grateful for having these experiences." EES Glendale Stake (California) Inter-Faith Social April 27, 1962 Left to right: Leah F randsen, Education Counselor, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Mae Warrington of the First Congressional Church; Florence Dalton, Work Director Counselor, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Jesse M. Koeslen, First Methodist Church; Ellen Werisk, First Covenant Church; Edna Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Mrs. Simonds, First Lutheran Church. Sister Beal reports: "We felt very happy with the outcome of our inter-faith social. We had some 350 women in attendance of whom 250 were women of other faiths. Nineteen different faiths were represented We felt that this social was a great missionary help. We also had Priesthood members in attendance to answer questions." THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 44 — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59:15-24) For First Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To learn the promises of the Lord for the faithful who keep his command. Ments. Introduction N last month's lesson we learned that on the day the Prophet Joseph Smith attended the funeral of Polly Knight, the Lord gave a most important revelation for the comfort of the saints. It was a message of hope concerning the future life where the deceased continue to find joy in activity. The saints also learned that they would be blessed with commandments received by revelation through the Prophet. One Of these commandments was the proper observance of the Lord's day of rest. Eight positive requirements of Sabbath day observance were enumerated in the lesson. An official statement by the First Presidency was also given concerning violation of the Sabbath. (Lesson 43, Relief Society Magazine, September 1962.) "Inasmuch As Ye Do These Things With Thanksgiving" If we follow the commandment concerning the Sabbath day and are faithful in keeping the other commandments, our harvest will be rich. But what is expected of the member as he obeys God's will? Gratitude, yes, as we learned from verse 7 of Section 59. Then what? As a member follows the commandments in keeping the Sabbath day holy, joy is received, and rich blessings are promised. (SeeD & C 59:15-19.) Keeping the commandments brings the favor of heaven. In the foregoing verses there is stated the purpose for which the things of the earth — food, clothing, and shelter — are provided, to strengthen one physically and spiritually. Implicit in these verses is the same thought expressed in an earlier revelation. All Jaws and commandments thought of as temporal are spiritual. (Ibid., 29:34-35.) The important fact is that the bounties of the earth are for all men 769 770 (Ibid., 49:19), but not in excess. An equitable distribution of the products of the earth is the ideal. Those who receive more of these materials are not only to use judgment in their use, but also to see that advantage is not taken of their fellow men. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion (Ibid., 59:20). Moderation and honesty are to guide man's use of God's creations provided for man's sojourn on the earth. Riches are to be used for the benefit of man. (Ibid., 49:20; Jacob 2:18-19.) President David O. McKay has emphasized that life should not be centered on wealth. (Gospel Ideals, page 393.) President Heber J. Grant has pointed out that riches in themselves may be blessings if used in the way the Lord intended. (Gospel Standards, page 108. ) Man's Offenses God's wrath is kindled against those who disregard his commandments when they know his will. His wrath or anger will be demonstrated at his coming in power to the world. (D & C 1:9-10.) The wicked will feel his wrath because they have brought his displeasure upon themselves due to violation of law. (Ibid., 124:48.) 'The demands of justice will be met by all those who remain unrepentant. (3 Nephi 28:34-35.) When the Lord stated the temporal blessings received by the faithful who obey the Sabbath, he expressed a truth which emphasizes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 the necessity of man's full acceptance of God's sovereignty and his dependence upon the Creator. It is: And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments (D & C 59:21). Is man to acknowledge the earth and the things of the earth for his benefit as coming from the Father in heaven? President Joseph F. Smith taught that man _ should acknowledge all truth from God. (Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, pp. 5-6.) For one who has felt the divine goodness of God, as did King Benjamin the Nephite, of the Book of Mormon, the answer must be yes. He labored to serve his subjects, for which they expressed gratitude. Using this as an opportunity to show wherein the Nephites were to thank their heavenly King, he said that if men should serve God with all their hearts, they would still be unprofitable servants. (Mosiah 2:20-21.) To acknowledge the Lord as the Creator who has given man life and provided the bounties of the earth for his benefit does not seem to be for many a part of present-day belief and practice. We should as Latter-day Saints learn a lesson from the Nephites. When the bounteous blessings of the earth are received, we are to be stewards over them, realizing that they are given to us by the Lord. A lesson that we should learn is that pride was the downfall of the Nephite nation. (Ibid., 38:39.) Obey His Commandments The Nephites were given specific LESSON DEPARTMENT promises that if they did keep the commandments they would prosper in the land. (I Nephi 4:14; 2 Nephi 1:20; 3 Nephi 5:22.) This same promise is given to the saints of the latter days. (2 Nephi 10:19; D& C 10:49-51.) Although one acknowledges the hand of the Lord in the blessings of life, he is still not completely acceptable to God unless he keeps his commandments. The keeping of the commandments is based upon faith in the Lord Jesus as the Savior and Redeemer. The strength of one's motivation to keep the commandments is determined, in large measure, by his attitude toward the Savior and the Father. Are we dependent upon them for life, for the opportunity to use earth's resources as stewards? Do we genuinely believe that we should give thanks to the Lord for these blessings? Is there a direct relationship between one's keeping the commandments and one's temporal and Spiritual welfare? According to the prophets, as shown above, those who do not show their gratitude by keeping the commandments offend God and against them his wrath is kindled. (D & C 59:21.) The time will come when all men will confess that God is sovereign, and they will acknowledge him as the Giver of life with its opportunities for proving oneself a true disciple. A Great Truth One of the outstanding truths given in sacred literature concludes Section 59. That all believers might know the pathway to successful living, the Lord revealed: But learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, 77 even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come. I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record. Amen (D & C 59:23-24). This truth expresses the most important promise the Father can give to any of his children. The greatest measure of salvation attainable is eternal life. When one thinks of rewards as blessings from the Father, one should remember that the Lord favors those who keep his commandments. (I Nephi 17:35.) Specifying "Works of Righteousness" What are the works of righteousness required of one to receive the rewards mentioned in the text quoted above (D & C 59:23)? One might summarize the answer by saying, "Keep the commandments!" But we don't always gain our objective by such a general statement. When the prophets by inspiration tell the people that they should keep the commandments, it is assumed that the saints are acquainted with the commandments. Not all of us are sufficient readers of the scriptures and the works of the living prophets to have specific knowledge of the Lord's will. It seems necessary, therefore, that we speak with some detail about the works of righteousness. Perhaps this restatement may serve as a review for many, and to others it may bring a greater understanding. For all it should be an opportunity for taking inventory of one's own status before God. Appropriate to this thought is the admonition that the member of the Church should 772 learn his duty in all diligence. (Ibid., 107:99. ) Without considering the following suggestions of works of righteousness as complete or of their importance in the order in which they are given, let us consider some significant items. Seeking Perfection One of the first steps toward righteousness in the sight of the Lord is to accept baptism in his kingdom. (Matt. 3:15; 2 Ne. 31:5-10.) Having taken this step, an important work of righteousness for the member of the Church would be to continually have in mind the objective of life; that is, to strive for perfection. (Matt. 5:48; 3 Ne. 12:48.) 'The genuine desire for perfection suggests that the member will rid himself of all ungodliness. (Moroni 10:32.) The most successful method of accomplishing this goal is to love the Lord with all one's heart, might, mind, and strength. (D & C 59:5.) Develop a love for Christ that "worketh by faith." Such love will engender the same emotion toward all men, but, intrinsically, it must come in the realization of one's dependence upon Christ for all things, for what he has done in behalf of the individual through his redeeming sacrifice. (2 Ne. 31:18-20.) A second great step toward righteousness is to help perfect the lives of the members. In the process of working out one's salvation, interest in others is a necessary part. Instructing others in the gospel contributes to perfecting the life of the teacher as well as of the person taught. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Missionary Work — Righteousness What other responsibilities come to a member of the Church in his acceptance of Christ? If one answers this question in terms of the purposes of the Church, the missionary program stands out foremost. The individual member has the responsibility, a work of righteousness, to teach the gospel. If this is not performed, the salvation of our fellow men is upon our heads. (D & C 88:81-82.) In addition to the formal missionary program to which one may be called, there are other opportunities for the member. Referring names of non-member friends to stake and foreign missionaries, as well as discussing the gospel with nonmembers is one way. The keeping of a missionary in the field or contributing with others to the maintenance of a missionary is another way. By teaching the gospel in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, one may have an opportunity to perform missionary service. If the teacher, however, is to make a "convert" his attitude must be that of the missionary. Elder Mark E. Petersen has pointed out the need for conversion of members of the Church, as follows: Conversion is all-important in the classroom. Each member of the Church must be thoroughly converted. But conversion is dependent on good teaching, and good teaching must include good doctrine. Good doctrine may be found in the official sources of the Church, and from such sources we should obtain it. Conversion is so important to the whole future life of an individual that all care must be taken to have him converted to correct doctrine and practice and not to mistaken views of some persons, no matter how sincere (Your Faith and You, page 40). LESSON DEPARTMENT Labor for the Dead The responsibility of the Church to provide the facilities for the members to discharge their own responsibility to their kindred dead, is a work of righteousness. 'This activity is one of the most direct ways to participate in the salvation of others. One may be a "savior" of the living, but he may also become the "savior" of countless dead. This work of righteousness includes the genealogical research as well as temple service, where possible. Service to Others Every principle of the gospel lived, every Church activity engaged in, serves as an example for others. This kina of service cannot be overemphasized, for "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). One provides for continued works of righteousness through the Church organization by contributions of material means in the form of tithing, fast offerings, ward or branch budget, building fund, and other assessments. In a practical sense, if there is a work of righteousness that contributes to the service of others, it is the giving of one's own self in terms of such contributions. Participation in worthy Church projects for the advancement of others, such as Welfare projects by the Priesthood members and _ the Relief Society members stands high among the works of righteousness. This is the organizational way that a member may, in part, retain a remission of his sins from day to day — by imparting of his substance to the needy. (Mosiah 4:26-27.) 773 Obey Leadership With the Church as the divine institution through which the foregoing purposes for man may be realized, it is evident that full confidence is to be shown in the counsel given by those who preside over us. Continuous revelation is_received that the member may reach perfection by obedience to the Lord's will through his servants. There is salvation in no other way. Fveryday Religion The works of righteousness are to be shown forth on all days and not only on the Sabbath. (D & C 59:11.) In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn:.. For I want to tell you that the religion of Christ is not a Sunday rehgion; it is not a momentary religion; it is a religion that never ends; and _ it requires duties of its devotees on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and all of the days of the week just as sincerely, just as strongly, as it does on the Sabbath day (Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, page 394). Rewards of Righteousness The first reward of righteousness given in our text (D & C 59:23) is peace in this world. Certainly this peace does not mean that war will end before the second coming of Christ. (Ibid., 1:35; 87:6; 97:22- 23.) Peace as a reward to the righteous may be enjoyed always regardless of the turmoil, strife, and tribulations in the world. It is a peace of mind, a sense of security, a settled conviction, a joy to the soul, which comes only through the Holy Ghost because works of righteousness have and are being performed. (Smiru, Joseru F.: 774 Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, pp 126-127; Lesson 38, Relief Society Magazine, December 1961.) Isaiah expressed it as a "quietness and assurance forever" (Isaiah 32:17). The second reward of righteousness and the greatest gift to be conferred by the Father upon his children is eternal life. (D & C 14:7.) The quality of living forever is possessed by the eternal spirit of man, but to live forever as a soul, that is, with the spirit and body united, through the resurrection, is known as immortality. (Ibid 88:14- 16.) Immortality is received by all of the earth's inhabitants, but eternal life is reserved for those who become like God. (Ibid., 29:43; Moses 1:39.) Eternal life or exaltation is to live in God's presence, to become like him, with the powers of spirit procreation. (Ibid., 132:15-17, 19-22.) What greater blessings may one have than the assurance of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 well-being in this life and eternal life in the world to come? The text for this lesson comes from the revelation on the Sabbath day. Rewards for Sabbath observance are numerous, but these blessings come not because of Sabbathkeeping alone but also by keeping the other commandments. 'Thus, the Lord declared that his people | are to acknowledge his hand in all things and to keep the commandments, and the rewards will be peace of mind in this world and eternal life in the world to come. Questions for Discussion 1. Is acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all things sufficient to bring forth his blessings? 2. Discuss: One must love Jesus Christ with all his heart to win exaltation. 3. How may one give of himself in being of service to others? 4. Discuss: What are some _ rewards of keeping the commandments of God? Interlude Thelma J]. Lund When melody of robin's song Is lilted with gladness overlong Enjoyed, and leaves glide without sound Like scarlet tanagers to the ground, The hours of autumn's golden run Glow like amber polished with sun. With grain and apples ripe and binned Against the deepening drifts of wind, The mind no longer thirsts for more Than time to meditate its store. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 44 — "Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" (D & C 60:13). 'Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, January 8, 1963 Objective: To emphasize the importance of utilizing our time wisely and to the best possible advantage. LL of us differ considerably in the nature and in the amount of our physical possessions and in our abilities and talents. Yet, one precious possession in which we are all equal is the amount of time we have each day. Regardless of who Or where we are, each of us each day has twenty-four hours of time — no more nor no less. What we do each day with this package of time determines the nature and accomplishments of our lives. Benjamin Franklin once asked, "Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of." One of the most important lessons we can learn is to live each day as fully as possible without worrisome concern about what happened yesterday and what may happen tomorrow. Actually, we have only one day of life and that is today. Yesterday has been lived and tomorrow may come, but today is here and now! This significant thought is appropriately expressed in the well-known hymn of Evan Stephens "Today, While the Sun Shines." (See L. D. S. Hymns, page 215.) Today, while the sun shines, work with a will; Today, all your duties with patience fulfill; This does not mean, of course, that we should not learn from our experiences of the past nor that we should fail to plan for the future. It is wisdom both to learn and to plan. But how much we benefit from our experiences and how well we plan for tomorrow depend upon what we do today. Today is the fruit of yesterday and the key to tomorrow. Anna Brown Lindsay wisely said: "The most reckless spendthrift in the world is the one who squanders time. Money lost may be regained, houses and lands sold may be bought or built again. But what power can restore the moment that has passed, the day whose sun has set, the year that has been numbered with the ages gone? We are spending time well when we are paying it out to God, to buy the things he means our lives to own, whether he is putting before us a duty to be done, a friend to be won, a small service to be rendered, a child to be consoled, or a house to be set in order. There is time TIS 776 enough given us to do all that God means us to do each day and to do it gloriously; yet, there is no moment given us to throw away" (Linpsay, ANNA Brown: The Compact Treasury of Inspiration, pp. 176-177). One of the great truths which the Church teaches in respect to our time in this life is its importance, not only during this mortal existence, but also the significant role it plays as a fundamental part of eternity. 'Thoreau had a glimpse of this great truth when he said, "As if you could kill time without injuring eternity." The great Book of Mormon prophet Amulek had a clear understanding of the importance of effective utilization of our time in this life as part of eternity. He said, "'this life is the time for men to prepare to meet God; yea, behold the day of this life is the day for men to perform their labors.... This day of life... Is given us to prepare for eternity" (Alma 34:32-33). If each of us would resolve each day to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 utilize his time most effectively what great energy for good would be released! We should not lose time in worry, discontent, and self-seeking, in useless regret, in idle and harmful activities. Life is for work and accomplishments and for the true joys and satisfactions that come therefrom. Take time to work — It is the price of success. Take time to think — It is the source of power. Take time to read — It is the foundation of wisdom. Take time to be friendly — It is the road to happiness. Take time to worship — It is the highway to a better life. Take time to laugh — It is music to the soul. Take time to love and be loved — It is the end of all living. (ZopeLt, ALBERT, JRr.: Story Classics, pp. 121-122.) Waiting Gladys Hesser Burnham With mind at ease we wait the drenching rain To beat tattoo on windowpane and door. The apples, pears, and prunes are gathered in; A bounteous year has favored us once more. With thankful hearts, we put the tools away And seek our needed rest before the spring. A gusty sigh, the leaves come pattering down; Gratefully we hear the raindrops sing. | WORK MEETING (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part IV) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To show that decision-making is the heart of good management. Socio-drama will be the feature in this lesson. It is a dramatization which' gives the actors a chance to put themselves in the place of those facing a problem and allows them to feel, to behave, and to talk as they would were the problem their own. 'The audience has the advantage of seeing how different people act in various situations, of hearing what they would say, of reacting to the feelings expressed by the actors. Spontaneity and sincerity are the keynote. Actors are volunteers who are willing to try out how they would react in a given situation. Action and dialogue are unrehearsed. No lines are memorized. Each person plays her role, she says what she feels, and she acts as she feels the character would act under the circumstances. Neither scenery nor costumes are used. The leader describes the setting and the actors take the audience with them In imagination by pantomime and dialogue. The family problem to be acted out is making a decision about | whether Susan (the teenage daughter) should have money to buy a party dress and go on a date. After the cast of Relief Society sisters speaking as a father, mother, an eighteen-year-old son, a fifteen-yearold daughter, and a twelve-year-old son, has volunteered, the leader spends a few minutes with them to agree on the approach and solution to the problem. She then describes the setting to the audience and the play is on with each Relief Society deciding the outcome of the discussion. (In the interest of time, selection of participants and direction by class leader could be just prior to discussion period. (These participants should all be Relief Society sisters. ) A Latter-day Saint family is well organized to make decisions. 'The father, holding the Priesthood, the mother, whose responsibility is homemaking, and the children old enough to express ideas and opinions, form a decision-making team. Relatives or others living in the home may assist in making choices if requested to do so. Since decision-making is the heart of management, it is essential that great skill be developed in making wise choices. Training for decision-making begins in the cradle when a rattle is favored over a doll. As soon as the child knows the difference between 771 778 a penny and a nickel, he should be allowed to have a few pennies and nickels with which to make some choices. In the beginning, he will prefer an ice-cream cone today, rather than a toy at the end of the week. His span of interest is very short. By the time he is a scout, he should be able to look ahead in order to save money to buy his scout uniform instead of squandering his money on ice-cream cones. At an early age, he should be able to plan for some savings for his mission, instead of spending it all on clothing. And, later on, he will look forward to the training he needs for his lifetime work and grasp every opportunity to further that goal. He will not suffer from the impulse to buy any and everything he sees, but will be looking ahead to the time when he will be an owner of a home and the head of a household. In the same way, decisions are made about the use of time, the use of energy, and other resources. During the training period, there is a culling out of undesirable choices, and decisions become easier to make. Family members become more mature as they look into the future and make decisions today that will make a stronger tomorTOW. Training in decision-making pays off when small decisions can be made wisely by individual family members, and only major ones need be brought up for consideration by the family team. It is necessary to have an easy atmosphere for making decisions. 'They might be made around a table, where the facts of the case are brought out. There is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 some pondering and weighing of alternate choices, and the best way is finally decided upon. Or there may be a regular time for the making of decisions, such as the family hour. Whatever the system, every family member should have an opportunity to bring up a problem for consideration, and there should be a full and frank examination of all the facts in the case. 'There should be a weighing of the merits of various choices and consideration given to the personal feelings of family members, A compromise might be the answer rather than a yes or no, but once the decision has been made, there is an obligation by members of the family to support that decision and carry it through. Decision-making is done with minds, not with hands; it is based largely on values that are held important and upon worthwhile goals. The experience of helping to make decisions develops faith, courage, and understanding — and most of all, the ability to think and act. These are the qualities which translate dead knowledge into living wisdom. 'They are what make our guesses turn out right. Questions for Discussion 1. If a person who has never been trained in decision-making, marries, what are some of the mistakes she is likely to make? 2. A young husband has a hobby of taking pictures. He spends considerable money for equipment without discussing it with his wife, and she feels the money could be better spent for the family. How can this problem be solved? 3. Review the essentials for good home management and report progress made in developing the attributes and _ skills needed. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 36 — Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 463-471) For Third Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To enrich our understanding and enjoyment of Holmes' wit and poetry by acknowledging the issues of his time which he represented. Holmes the Man Oliver Wendell Holmes was born near Harvard Yard in Cambridge in 1809, just 100 years after Dr. Samuel Johnson, his neo-classical ideal whom he revered so _ highly that he reread his works each year. His father, Abiel Holmes, was pastor of the First Church in Cambridge for thirty-seven years, and a prominent historian of Puritan New England. Although his father's rigidity and coldness contributed in large measure to Oliver's later repudiation of religious creed and the Calvinistic definition of man as a depraved animal, he never lost his belief in a benevolent Deity. His mother was a smiling, cheerful soul whose outlook was far removed, indeed, from that of her older husband. In 1840, Oliver married Amelia Lee Jackson, a woman with a fine mind and of unusual charm. After graduating from Harvard in his twentieth year he studied for the law, but to him, it was so dry and boring that for relief he wrote the poem "Old Ironsides" which aroused sufficient public indignation to save the American Revolutionary War frigate The Constitution from being destroyed. He studied medicine in Paris for two years just as vital medical discoveries were being made, and returned home after extensive touring in Europe to become the "whip which drove back the objectors and_allowed the modern scientific concept of medicine to gain entrance." Most abhorrent to the young doctor was the old idea that God caused sickness in corruptible men as punishment for their sins — sin itself being regarded as an inescapable mortal frailty resulting from Eve's yielding to temptation. The more Holmes studied science the more he found God's benevolent handiwork in men and nature. For him science was "piecemeal revelation" of God's truth. "There is no conflict between science and _ religion; science represents the thought of God discovered by man." For Holmes, God and nature could never be separated. When a wound healed "God's presence and power and knowledge are there healing it." Educated, intelligent, cultured Hi) 780 through travel and a proud and dominant family tradition, he was well aware of the great transitions his age must face. As a most beloved teacher at Harvard Medical School for thirty-five years, he exalted his faith in the scientific method and in the reality of that which is knowable through the senses, almost to the level of a religion. But as poet he played, dashing off witty puns in conversation and formal speeches, both rhymed and in prose, to amuse himself and his many warm friends. And, if in his Boston, the "statehouse is the hub of the solar system," then Boston's great public halls and the homes of his friends were the revolving planets which carried him sparkling through the brilliant social whirl which he loved and esteemed so highly. Each year from 1851 to 1889 he carefully wrote verses for the annual reunion of the Harvard class of '29 and he won several prizes for his publication of medical papers. He also wrote three "medicated" novels: Elsie Venner, The Guardian Angel, and A Mortal Antipathy, none of them distinguished. They were written to popularize his psychological and environmental theories. But as for his verse, he spoke truly when he wrote: I'm a florist in verse, and what would people say If I came to a banquet without my bouquet? The immediate nation-wide popularity of his "Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," first appearing as articles in the new Atlantic Monthly, intensified Holmes' local popuRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 A Perry Picture OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES larity as toastmaster and conversationalist. Socially and culturally he was dominated by Dr. Johnson's neoclassical values: gentlemanliness, order, balance, wit, quality, and breeding. Strongly — resembling Cooper, he felt himself merely exercising his democratic rights of choice when he said, "I go politically for equality... And socially for the quality." While he felt it might be all right to "admire a selfmade man whittled into shape with his own jackknife, other things being equal, I prefer a man of family." By "family" he meant "those who had pluck and audacious self-esteem, with good grounds for it.' And "good grounds" were produced by the environment familiar to Boston's wealthy class: high society, distinguished ancestry, family portraits, a library, silver, and a tme residence. He loved these rewards of financial and social success. In summary, his Boston, LESSON DEPARTMENT with art, music, literature, education, good talk, and comfortable traditions, he loved; the new Boston, with immigrant Italians and Irish laborers, he could never understand. Professor Holmes Dr. Holmes gave the name anesthesia to the loss of consciousness induced by drugs, as used for the first time by Dr. Morton in 1846 at the Boston General Hospital. Holmes is also generally credited with proving, in his medical writings on puerperal or childbed fever, that the disease is contagious, and is transmitted by doctors and facilities im unsanitary hospitals throughout the world. His true love in medicine, however, was the teaching of human anatomy for more than thirty-five years to Harvard medical students. Possibly the best-loved teacher Harvard ever had, Dr. Holines began lecturing at the last hour of the day to three hundred weary, semi-asphyxiated students! Even in the late afternoon, his entrance into the classroom was greeted with much applause. His lectures were illuminated by vivid description, apt comparisons, and anecdotes to illustrate the salient points of his lectures. His poetic imagination created a brilliant glow that enlivened the factual material which he presented. Yet he was precise and authentic in all his statements, exemplifying a complete mastery of imagery as well as acCuracy in describing minute details. All the virtues claimed for Holmes by his former students are exemplified in his method of ex- 781 plaining the constituents of the body: clear, organized, vibrant with words which enhance rather than blur his main purpose. Following are the opening lines of a lecture on anatomy: Take one of these boiled eggs, which has been ravished from a_ brilliant possible future, and instead of sacrificing it to a common appetite, devote it to the nobler hunger for knowledge ("Pages From an Old Volume of Life," Holme's Works, Vol. III, page 187). Holmes' Writings Save for his early crusading burst of indignation "Old Ironsides," Holmes wrote solely in a_ gentle satiric vein for the pleasure it gave to himself and others. So successful was he that his amiable contribution to our culture will never be forgotten. But great literature grows only out of sustained moral earnestness, the noble quality so richly abundant in the New England tradition as in his son Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., one of the greatest jurists and liberals the United States has produced. In his own life, with insignificant exceptions, Holmes reserved his moral intensity for his professional scientific pursuits. Here lay what he felt to be his true challenge; here therefore he placed the full weight of his mature mind. In writing The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table followed by The Professor at the Breakfast-Table and The Poet at the BreakfastTable, Holmes used the plan of rambling monologue touching on any topic that came to his mind. This literary form was admirably adapted to his temperament and powers. By combining the tech- 782 niques of prose-fiction, essay, drama, poetry, and light verse, he was able to sketch character, present his favorite ideas, tell stories, satirize stupidity, and praise Boston, at the same time remaining warm and kind. It is in this series of writings that we find some of his best-known humorous and serious poetry. Both as "autocrat" and as poet, Holmes wrote for the large family party which was Boston society — he named them the Brahmins, or untouchables, and was proud to be included in his own definition. Passionately he loved them; cleverly he entertained them, using most frequently in his verse the neoclassical tool of satire. First he satirizes all reformers and idealists, particularly the Miullerites who had long predicted that the millennium would be ushered in during 1875. In the poem "LatterDay Warnings" he depicts mortal foibles still to be overcome. (See text, page 465.) LATTER-DAY WARNINGS When legislators keep the law, When banks dispense with bolts and locks, When berries — whortle, rasp, and straw— Grow bigger downwards through the box. When one that hath a horse on sale Shall bring his merit to the proof, Without a lie for every nail That holds the iron on the hoof, — When in the usual place for rips Our gloves are stitched with special care, And guarded well the whalebone tips Where first umbrellas need repair. Till then let Cumming blaze away, And Miller's saints blow up the globe; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 But when you see that blessed day, Then order your ascension robe! The "One-Hoss-Shay," which satirizes the rotting away of the oldtime Calvinism which Holmes spent his life opposing, is so filled with delight-in-words and boyish pranks that it is difficult to believe that he is at all serious. (See text, pp. 468- 469.) Holmes is aware of fair play, for he satirizes himself, too, or at least his vast enjoyment of what we now call "creature comforts." His "Contentment" (text, page 470) lists his minimum essentials: a_ plain brownstone mansion, a three-course dinner rather than ten, topped with vanilla-ice. As for titles, he can squeeze by with two simple ones: Governor and Ambassador. Books? Fifty, bound in red morocco, while a span of easy-gaited horses, rather than fast, showy pacers, will fill his need.... I care not much for gold or land; — Give me a mortgage here and there, — Some good bank-stock, — some note of hand, Or trifling railroad share; — I only ask that Fortune send A little more than I shall spend. Jewels are baubles; 'tis a sin To care for such unfruitful things; — One good-sized diamond in a pin, — Some, not so large, in rings, — A ruby and a pearl, or so, Will do for me; — I laugh at show. Among other well-remembered poems written by Holmes are "Dorothy QO," "The Organ Blower," "The Last Leaf," and, for sheer amusement, "Aunt Tabitha," "The Height of the Ridiculous," and "The Stethoscope Song." But it is in "The Living Temple" which he LESSON DEPARTMENT wrote aS vigorous protest against Puritanical attitude toward the body as a corrupt vessel, as well as in "The Chambered Nautilus" that Holmes most nearly approaches greatness. THE LIVING TEMPLE* Not in the world of light alone, here God has built his blazing throne, Nor yet alone in earth below, With belted seas that come and go, And endless isles of sunlit green, Is all thy Maker's glory seen: Look in upon the wondrous frame, — Eternal wisdom still the same! The smooth, soft air with pulse-hke waves Flows murmuring through its hidden caves, Whose streams of brightening purple rush Fired with a new and livelier blush, While all their burden of decay The ebbing current steals away, And red with Nature's flame they start From the warm fountains of the heart. No rest that throbbing slave may ask, Forever quivering o'er his task, While far and wide a crimson jet Leaps forth to fill the woven net Which in unnumbered crossing tides The flood of burning life divides, Then, kindling each decaying part, Creeps back to find the throbbing heart. See how yon beam of seeming white Is braided out of seven-hued light, Yet in those lucid globes no ray By any chance shall break astray. Hark how the rolling surge of sound, Arches and spirals circling round, Wakes the hushed spirit through thine ear With music it is heaven to hear. Then mark the cloven sphere that holds All thought in its mysterious folds; That feels sensation's faintest thrill, And flashes forth the sovereign will; Think on the stormy world that dwells Locked. In its dim and clustering cells! The lightning gleams of power it sheds Along its hollow glassy threads! 783 O Father! Grant thy love divine To make these mystic temples thine! When wasting age and wearying strife Have sapped the leaning walls of life, When darkness gathers over all, And the last tottering pillars fall, Take the poor dust thy mercy warms, And mold it into heavenly forms- — The Poetical Works of Oliver Wendell Holmes, (Vol. I, pp. 252-254). (*Note this word picture of his aesthetic interpretation of the human body, as each verse elucidates a part of it, 1..: verse 1, the body whole; verse 2, lungs and circulation; verse 3, heart; verse 4, eyes and ears; verse 5, brain.) Similar to "The Living Temple," "The Chambered Nautilus" concludes in spiritual hope and _ nobleness. (See text, pp. 466-467. ) THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main, — The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair. Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pear!! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed, — Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed! Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, IIe left the past year's dwelling for the new, Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, 784 Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more. Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap, forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew front wreathed horn! While on mine ear it rings, Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings: — Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea! A versatile, alert, man-about-town Bostonian, Oliver Wendell Holmes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 exhibits narrowness and_ prejudices which amply prove his humanity and mortality. Like Lowell, Holmes, for every reason was destined for greatness, yet he avoided it successfully. But nothing conceals his zest for learning, quality, culture, and literary excellence, whether it be to embody his observations on his contemporary world, to chide the local mutual admiration societies for taking themselves too seriously, or to share his faiths and fears in his city's future. He lived richly and well. For his wit, sparkle, and wisdom we are again his debtors. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss Holmes' basic beliefs, both in science and religion. 2. Has this lesson increased your appreciation for Holmes as a man; as a writer; as a teacher; as a man of versatile abilities? If so, why? | SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 3 — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) Elder Ariel S. Ballit For Fourth Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To establish the importance of system and order in Church government. [NX the preceding lesson, it was noted that divine law provides the direction by which man can develop his full talents, realize the purpose of his creation, and, at the same time, receive the fulness of joy in living. This combination can only be accomplished by man's LESSON DEPARTMENT exercise of his free agency. Choice, not force, is the important principle. President McKay says that, "Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man" (Improvement Era, February 1962, page 86). In the present lesson consideration is given to system and order in the design of the Lord as it refers to human welfare. God is exacting in his dealings with man. "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). God deals in truths that are unfailing. 'This is evident in the order of the universe and the regularity of the physical laws governing the earth and life upon it. "Mine House Is a House of Order' "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name? Or will I receive at your hands that which I have not appointed? And will I appoint unto you, saith the Lord, except it be by law..?" (D & C 132:8-11). Possibly the most obvious evidence to us of order in the Lord's house is found in the operation of physical law. President Brigham Young said, "... The Priesthood of the Son of God... Is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever" (Widtsoe: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). With this law in action, 785 we can observe the regularity with which the sun rises and sets, due, of course, to the earth turning on its axis. 'Ihe earth also moves in orbit, with other planets of the solar system, about the sun, at the same time the whole solar system moves as a unit through space but always in orderly relationship to the countless other systems. Order in Our World A more intimate look at the world we live on reveals the same consistent operation of law resulting in regularity and order. We are aware of the change of seasons. This makes us aware of the growth of plants, noting how growth varies with the warmth of the sun, the presence of plant food, light, and moisture. 'lhe seeds responding to the forces of nature sprout and grow true to their kind and variety. The same regularity exists in the animal kingdom. This regularity has gone on since the creation of the earth and will continue in orderly fashion according to the law of God. The physical world about us fulfills its purpose through the operation of divine law. In the beginning, God said, "... Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping things, and beasts of the earth after their kind, and it was so" (Moses 2:24). The faithful function of the law in the physical world is evidence of the supreme wisdom of the Creator. Order in the Lives of People The same great knowledge and wisdom has provided the direction and regulation by which man can attain the full purpose of his crea- 786 tion. But man, being the spiritual child of God and having an intelligence that is co-eternal with God, was blessed with the privilege of choice. In the great plan, through inspiration and revelation, man was provided with direction and opportunity for full development, but he must discover for himself the value of truth and its bearing upon his progress and eventual exaltation. The physical world was set by law to accomplish its purpose, but man was given his free agency (the responsibility of choice) with the power of reflective thinking and the ability to make decisions, the effectiveness of which determines whether or not he is successful in achieving the full purpose of his creation. Emphasis Upon Human Relations When the onginal family partook of the fruit and became mortal, they also became subject to the influences of good and evil. Lucifer was the director of the forces of evil, and Jesus Chnist, the Savior of mankind, the essence of righteousness and the source of light and truth to all of the human family. Although Adam and Eve were driven from the garden, the Lord still communicated with them, instructing them in the divine law, giving them the direction that would eventually bestow upon them all the blessings of heaven. In the fifth chapter of Moses, we are informed that the Lord instructed Adam in the way of life and salvation. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and _ their daughters" (Moses 5:12). But Satan deceived the children of Adam sayRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 éé ing "... Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish" (Moses 5:13) These are the sins of the flesh. 'They find expression in the gratification of the physical appetites. 'The law of progress is directly related to overcoming the flesh, exercising judgment and control over desire. It is disciplining the body and the mind so that the impulses of nghteousness can be received. The Lord, through the Holy Ghost, called all the children of Adam to repentance assuring them of salvation if they would hearken, '"... And as many as believed not and repented not, should be damned (their progress stopped) (See Smith, Joseph Fielding: Doctrines of Salvation, Vol. 2, page 227); and the words went forth out of the mouth of God in a firm decree; wherefore they must be fulfilled" (Moses 5:15). But Cain was rebellious, and hearkened not to divine law saying: "Who is the Lord that I should know him?" (Moses 5:16). Even in his offering unto the Lord, Cain was moved upon by the power of evil. Therefore, his offering was not acceptable. In spite of the warning Cain received, he rejected the Lord and entered into secret covenants with Satan. Cain gloried in his wickedness, and he exercised his free agency in the murder of his brother Abel. 'This act was not a momentary impulse, but was the product of a series of actions based on selfishness, jealousy, and carnal desire. Abel's death was a climax to a falling away or an apostasy. For | LESSON DEPARTMENT there were many of the children of Adam who followed after Cain. Here we can see that interaction of people, respecting the rights of each individual, is a major concern of the plan of life and salvation. If we love God, we will keep his commandments. 'The first and greatest commandment is to love God, and the second is to love our fellow men. The constant flow of divine communication to man from the beginning to the present has emphasized the importance of the behavior of men and their relationship one with another.. The Example of Israel The plea of the prophets from Adam to Noah to Moses and on down to the present day has been _ to love one another, overcome self- -ishness and greed, and to be concerned about the welfare of fellow "men. When Moses led the children of Israel out of Egypt, he found their greatest bondage was the bondage of evil. After they reached the wilderness, it took forty years of constant training to modify their Behavior sufficient for the Lord to get them back to the land of their forefathers. The book of Exodus is a vivid account of the efforts of the Lord, through Moses, to teach Israel the basic principles of righteousness "expressed in human behavior. The Ten Commandments sumMarize the teachings referred to above, placing the emphasis upon love of God and love of fellow men. In the first four of the ten, attention is focused upon the place of God in our everyday activity. The fifth commandment stresses 787 the importance of family relationships. It points out the mutual responsibility of love and respect between parents and children and the resultant blessings. The last five of the commandments present direction and regulation of the appetites and desires of the individual in relationship to the other members of society. 'Thou shalt not kill, commit adultery, steal, bear false witness, or covet. 'These are personal problems growing out of human association when Satan dominates the minds of men. (See Exodus, Chapter 20. ) When Jesus came upon the earth he expanded the importance of human relationships in his Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 5), where he summarized all his teachings in terms of ideal social interaction. In fact, the gospel of Jesus Christ or the divine plan of life and salvation is a blueprint for ideal living. It is motivated by love and is the only plan by which perfection in human association can be attained. Divine Law and Organization 1. An explanation of government and law. The descendants of Adam have spread over the face of the earth. In the process, they have separated themselves, through choice, in varying degrees from the inspiration, revelation, and direction of the divine will. Being endowed with intelligence and the power of reflective thinking, man has recognized the necessity of regulating his own activities in relation to others. In the most primitive societies, some form of government has existed. Government is simply the exercise 788 y= for. SINGING MOTHERS a GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spoafford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner --.-----:--0--0000.30 ~ | | | l | I l | i I I I l | l | | I - JESU, JOY OF MAN'S | DESIRING—Bach ____ 25 y LET NOT YOUR SONG END— } I l | | I | I | j I I l l I I | I a -25 a. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 >a LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— Smart 222..2---eeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeee.20 a LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 az. LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.25 —— MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen ---.- -25 = STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen 2 eee eee.22 se UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven a VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Scott ------.2.. Sscescseeesseceeeee 25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated ' \ ' I t t { above. CC] On Approval [J Charge \ 1 i i} t | \ [CJ Money Enclosed Se Salt Lake City 11, Utah Ow 100% Yor (62-162 cm mer es me we ee we a Oe i ee ee See eS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 of authority in regulating the action of something. In organized society, this regulation is established by law, and law simply means the rules or mode of conduct insisted upon by the agreement of the people to whom the law is applied. Violations are punished by the controlling authority. At various times in history, the controlling authority has become a tyrannical force, appropriated to one man, or a small group of men, who have developed a powerful empire through military force. Force is Satan's base. Just as regularly as nations rise on the basis of force they decay and fall, the power shifting to another center where a superior concentration of force has been developed. This type of government does not have as its motive the welfare of mankind. A Lasting Kingdom The restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ was the establishment of the kingdom of God upon the earth. The terms Church and kingdom in this sense are used synonymously. A church to some may mean only a building, a place of worship. In a larger sense, church refers to the structure, the organization, the program and the membership. The Church as we use the term includes all of these but also a much more essential element than is included in this explanation. This element is divine authority. The Church of Jesus Christ or the kingdom of God has been established through divine law, and is motivated by the divine attribute of love. It is not political in nature, being a perfect theocracy, and having for its purpose "to bring to pass the im- LESSON DEPARTMENT mortality and eternal life of man," and in the process to bring him joy in this life through advancement, achievement, and progression. Characteristics of the Kingdom How will we identify the kingdom? What will be its distinguishing characteristics? In the first place the kingdom of God will be the place for Jesus Christ to come to as God the King and will be an everlasting kingdom. The laws of righteousness will be its code. The enmity of man and beast, in fact the enmity of all flesh shall end (UD & C 101:26). In this kingdom, wickedness will be overcome and the pattern of prayer given in Matthew 6:9-13, "Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven" will be realized. A Living Example of the Kingdom We are given a glimpse of what the kingdom of God will be like in reviewing 4 Nephi in The Book of ' Mormon. Here the principles of the | gospel, the teachings of the Savior, actually directed the lives of the people. Living under the direction of divine law, they were able to overcome their social ills and direct their energies toward the advancement and progress of their society. (See | 4 Nephi, verses 2-3, 5, 12-17.) | | | | This condition continued for two hundred years until of their own choosing they let pride and riches turn their hearts from the things of God. Selfishness and greed blinded their eyes to the value of the pattern of life rest by the Savior to their forefathers. ROSE PARADE TOUR IN DECEMBER HAWAIIAN TOUR IN NOVEMBER WORLD'S FAIR TOURS IN OCTOBER MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first. And finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Up to 150 miles 2.0.0.0..35 Rate 150 to 300 miles _ 0002..0000.39 300 to 600 miles _ As ©} 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles 64 1400 to 1800 miles 76 Over 1800 miles _ -..-..-0.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah 790 Divine Heritage From the discussion of the last two lessons and the references used, we are aware (1) that the divine laws are designed for the benefit and welfare of mankind and (2) that system and order are essential to the development of the kingdom of God. It has also been pointed out that the major concern of God the Eternal Father is the progress and development of his children. 'To this end he has dedicated the wisdom of heaven expressed through revelation and inspiration to the human family, producing for mankind the plan of life and salvation. The Lord of Creation has thus provided the proper direction to man's life, making possible the full realization and expression of his possibilities. ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Isiand; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade Leaving December 26, 1962 MEXICAN TOUR Leaving end of January, 1963 Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Ruins Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Ask about Mardigras Tour in February ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Our heritage, then, is the interest, wisdom, and love of our Eternal Father made evident in the divine law that sets forth the way to effective living with our fellow men and to exaltation in his kingdom, made possible by the atonement of Christ. REFERENCES D & C 101, 130, 131. Moses, Chapters 2, 5, 7:18. The Book of Mormon, 4 Nephi. TaLMaGE, JAMES A.: Articles of Faith, pp. 363-368.. WiptsoE, Joun A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130. Exodus 20. Matthew s. McKay, Davin O.: The Improvement Era, February 1962, page 86. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What was the great purpose of the creation of the earth? 2. How important is obedience to law to successful government? 3. What is the significance of choice in achieving the full purpose of man's creation? 4. To what extent does man's treatment of his fellow men reflect his love of God? 5. What are the social implications of the Ten Commandments? Of the Sermon on the Mount? Dusk Carolyn Despain The sun Fell into the hills The moon Touched the trees, And the house Knew cat eyes. Grandmother's Quilts Zara Sabin Grandmother's quilts are a joy to behold No two alike it would seem — Sunshine and Shadow and Sutter's Gold Bow Tie and a Maiden's Dream. Seating herself in her wicker chair, She would rock for a moment or two Then she would say with a martyr-like air, "T must find me something to do." Soon you would hear her hunting around Humming a lively lilt — You would know that when a pattern was found Grandmother would start a quilt. Crazy Quilt, Nine Patch, Bethlehem Star, A Double Wedding Ring, Log Cabin, Flower Garden, Peace and War, The pointed Crown of a King — Bordered or plain or appliqued, I can see her fit and scheme — Such were the quilts that Grandmother made — No two alike, it would seem. Have You Heard About Basic-H? A revolutionary, unique and completely new cleaning product. NOT A SOAP — NOT A DETERGENT. AS GENTLE AS LOTION TO YOUR HANDS. THE IDEAL CLEANER FOR ALL PURPOSES. TRY IT ONCE AND YOU WILL NEVER GO BACK TO OTHER CLEANERS. Send $2.00 for one quart BASIC-H CONCENTRATE, WHICH MAKES 53 GALLONS OF THIS FINE CLEANER. Postpaid anywhere in the United States. Address MADSEN DISTRIBUTORS Post Office Box 2224, Salt Lake City 10, Utah 791 192 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Three Mrs. Lizzie Deti MERRILL Henniker, New Hampshire Ninety-seven Mrs. ANN CRAWFORD JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. NExuie A. Coss LAMBERT Panorama City, California Ninety-five Mrs. Mary Gositinc WADE Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. SARAH FrANciIs HENDON Warren, Arkansas Mrs. LucretT1A PHELPS POMEROY Mesa, Arizona Ninety-four Mrs. RosaLiE WILLIAMS BEARDALL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Fruint House Brigham City, Utah Mrs. Apa BIssELL HARRISON Springville, Utah Mrs. Mary JANE SOMMERS ROSE Seattle, Washington RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 The Art of by Daryl V. Hoole 2.95 9 Second edition just off the press First edition sold within two months "THE ART OF HOMEMAKING promises to decidedly change the outlook of womankind towards her obligation within the home. After reading it through, | begin each day's routine with a feeling of delight and anticipation. Mrs. Hoole should be considered 'the Dr. 'ua Spock of homemaking arts'. The price as quoted in the September advertisement was a mistake. $2.95 is the correct price. Now available at your local book stores or by ordering copies direct from Deseret Book Company Salt Lake City, Utah or Extension Publications Brigham Young University Provo, Utah Ninety-Two Mrs. MAHALA SMITH PaARRISH Ammon, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. Mary ExvizABETH MATHER NOBLE Smithfield, Utah Mrs. MarTHA ANN LINDSAY San Francisco, California Ninety Mrs. Hattie Pack Howarp Logan, Utah Mrs. ANNIE HupsOoN WEBB Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY SUGGESTED READING FOR 1962-63 COURSES OF STUDY AT DESERET BOOK Literature Textbook: 1. AMERICA'S LITERATURE by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes All of America's foremost authors from Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson to Emily Dickinson, Mark Twain, Carl Sandburg, and Ernest Hemingway ene A p "nm;. - ~- '' oe "y are well-represented in this choice compilation of © American literature. $9.75 Z mericas:: ' Postage $.25: Theology:: LITE RATURE 2. DOCTRINE & COVENANTS, Library Edition i An ideal edition for those wishing to do considerable underscoring and entering of notes during this ) | a, &. Specific course of study. $1 50 »% ——— PLUS all of the following paperback editions: 4 THE PORTABLE THOREAU $1.65 6. MOBY DICK, Herman Melville Postage.15 a. Rinehart Edition $.95 A. AUTOCRAT OF THE BREAKFAST ——— 7 TABLE, Oliver Wendell Holmes _ 3.99 ee itl — a ostage.: A a itman i §. THE PORTABLE HERMAN MELVILLE 1. EEE ES A SES) ere i =. $1.65 8 THE PORTABLE WHITMAN $1 85 l Deseret Book Company \ | Postage.15 Postage | | 44 E. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah an Gentlemen: Enclosed please find Deseret ae check money order 1 have an account, please charge. Amount en- 44 East South -Tempte Salt Lake City Utah closed -. For encircled (numbered) books: 1234567 8 City Zone State 0 Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax | | | | | Address | | Is your life insurance Beneficial? Dentists—as well as doctors, lawyers, and other professional men and women — you might well ask yourselves this question: just how much life insurance should you have? The answer will depend, of course, on a careful study of your assets and your responsibilities. Your assets would include your Social Security, your home, your present life insurance, your savings, and your investments. These are often worth Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah a substantial sum but are they worth enough to meet your growing responsibilities... And your plans for the future? Sound financial planning for your family's future must include consideration of all of your assets and your responsibilities. Your Beneficial Life insurance representative, backed by the "Planned Futures' department in our home office will help you study these assets and responsibilities and help you decide on the best program for your needs and income. Call him soon. Write for more information on "Planned Futures." BENEFICIAL LIFE Srsurance of: Company Salt Lake City, Utah Virgil H. Smith, Pres.
