Vol 49 NO. 5 MAY. 1962 ) a z wg Os ~; ) "re: =. ';..) A ines a6 ". - t, nds t"* Pa i oe ~~ nay; Ona May Morning Ouida Johns Pedersen In my mother's land, the hawthorne Now unfolds Ineffably sweet upon the air, And lanes waken to-the fragrance Of meadows starred with Mayflower. If her thoughts turn backward To those lovely shores, where Childhood blossomed like orchards, Only a pensive glance At the cherry trees betrays it. The hour Of relinquishment has been assuaged by time. And here, her love, unfailing as the sun, Unfolds in service sweeter than the bough Of fragile bloom, strong as the root. | Perennially, her care, wild nectar on the tongue Sucked from these stars of spring, Creates for children who surround her now Gardens of loveliness. Dearer than the shoot © Of tender green, these buds so young Are now enriched by her remembering. The Cover: Mountain Garden at Brighton, Utah Color Transparency by L. Paul Roberts Frontispiece: Lane of Blossoms in West Virginia Photograph by Luoma Studios Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far We of the McGill Ward Seminary in the Nevada Stake of Zion wish to thank you for the serial story "Because of the Word" (concluded in January 1962), by Hazel M. Thomson. In our seminary we are discussing temples, and this story concerning the building of the Kirtland Temple fits in very well. It added color and variety to our study of temples. —LaVerl K. Harris McGill, Nevada I enjoy all the Magazine so very much, and another sister and I meet each week for our own "home Relief Society." —Mrs. Mary Ann Kohfield Norton, Kansas The covers of the Magazine are simply beautiful. The January cover picture looks so real (Yosemite National Park, California), I can almost feel the snow. The first prize poem ""The Other Mother," by Miranda Snow Walton, in the same issue is certainly thought provoking. —Erma B. Braack Raymond, Washington I wish to express my appreciation for the Magazine. I enjoy taking a few minutes now and then to read a clean inspirational story. Many times I have gone to the public magazine racks for a magazine containing short stories, and I have come away empty-handed, and emptyhearted, so to say. I am a young mother with four children, and I do not have time to read book-length novels, but I do enjoy reading short stories during rest periods. —RM rs. Maxine P. Done San Jose, California The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. 'The stories contain beautiful examples of right living. —Magree G. Schaerr Kanab, Utah Page 314 Recently we had shocking brush fires which encircled our city, and a national emergency was declared. After the fires had been raging for two days, the Red Cross society found that we keep a list of nursing sisters, and we were thrilled to be able to send some of our wonderful sisters to the rescue at very short notice. The Relief Society organization is truly wonderful, and I sometimes feel that we could say that we are prepared for any emergency. We certainly appreciate The Relief Society Magazine down here in Melbourne Stake. —Mavis E. Cutts President Melbourne Stake Relief Society Victoria, Australia I just have to tell you how much IJ enjoyed that fine, inspiring address by Elder Sterling W. Sill, "Where Your Treasure Is," in the March issue of the Magazine. Every member of our Church should read this address. I rejoice in the Magazine, which is published especially for the women of the Church. I feel with all my heart that it should reach every home. A good book is truly a lasting gift. —Cora Daley Snowville, Utah I have never read a fiction story that could touch one's heart like the story "Good Morning, Mrs. Romaie!'' (by Mabel Law Atkinson, March 1962). I don't believe a more beautiful story could be written. Such a true picture of a wonderful life. —RMrs. Colleen L. Barnes Naf, Idaho A word of appreciation for the lovely serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). With its lofty theme and crisp style, it has the impact of poetry. Our Magazine is a fitting frame for such excellence. —Evelyn Miller Sandberg Ojai, California

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publicati f the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints a _ RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. S afford - | - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - ~ - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny 5S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - '. - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 49 MAY 1962 NO. 5 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES Portrait of ca Mother ooi. O eeceeeecccececeeceocecetsereresseeeeceeseecceeesssecesecssuessecensensatensseeeesWilliam J. Critchlow, jr. 316 Hazel Sowards Cannon Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society occ cecceseceeceeceseeesseccesseceeessecsssseenneneesnecceesccacesecsssesnesseneeeceeeesLuella F. Okeson 320 Hazel Sperry Love Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Mary R. _Yougis ae Contest Announcements — 1962 302 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Oo ee 322 Relief Society Short Story Contest ---ccccccccscs--cscce-csescoessesssessvesesoessevssevessnasssessnssuseenssceeneececsneenses 323 She Knew the Prophet igo | Smith — Part II — Mercy aie Thompson.. Preston Nibley 326 Magazine Honor Roll for 1961. FICTION Hand to the Plow — Part I — Ticket Wicket 2 ceeeeeeeeceeseeeceeeceeeeeecceeeeeeeeeeensIlene H. Kingsbury 330 A Dog and His Maid ee ee ee Shirley Sargent 335 Little Teamstress 2.0.0 eeeeeeceeeeeee.; ee Frances C. Yost 342 Dare to Be Different.2 1 csccsssecceeescecescececeneeceseeeceenseeeensecenensncersecsecesnsnnecereneeceseceeeMabel Law Atkinson 348 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 5 oo.. I.. Ecec. CcssesceccesesecceeseeeecsccesneneceeecececeneeeMargery S. Stewart 366 GENERAL PERE pass MST CATAL Fionn nncccccnnces cenececccnceconcnnsccaceccencececcecnscccceecscecceececsaseenccenancacnegsspenenecsnessecsenessecceasuacessnenee314 Sixty Years Ago or ne 338 A! EoheeXot oUt IES) 0) 60-3 (=Ramona W. Cannon 339 Editorial: The Cultural Values of Relief Society 2.0.0.2. Eceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeee eee eeeLouise W. Madsen 340 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20 tect cceseccseecsesesecccceseeecseseeeeceHulda Parker 384 Birthday Congratulations uo iu nen neene--n-eeneeeseoeecneeecnenanneecnnceoucenecenconsennaecenscsnnsencacceccereccneecnseeccesencseeensees 392 FEATURES FOR THE HOME MVS OEMS] BOK nnn ne nen ccctceccecescncececee nveceenccececseseecevecceccenaseccececceresccsaeeensecenscecencrnaceeViolet Nimmo 334 How to Give a Magazine to Someone Who Is II] oceansLenceececesesneenecseEvelyn Witter 346 ieveme | nine -.--------..--- eeElsie C. Carroll 347 The Reward of a Thing Well Dome oon eeeeelie cece ceceeceeneeeeeceeneeeeeeeeeeeeeee Caroline Eyring Miner 351 My Mother's Hands oonnoeeciocceccccccccececececeneceeeeeeccceeseeeeeeeseeeees _ aEsther H. Lamb 352 Patio Breakfasts for Summertime 22.0.0 2.. E. Ee cceeeecceceeeeeceneneccnseecenseeeceseneececneeeereneceseceeeeeLinnie F. Robinson 356 Souffle Sandwich ooo. Ccee cece ceceesenececnceeceneececceseececeeecececeeceeeceeeseceacessneeesssesesseeeeesssseecaseeeceeneseseesHelene B. Ray 357 Surfside Luncheon Theme ee _____Eva Willes Wangsgaard 358 Rhubarb Recipes ooo ieee eeeeecececcececeenceecceceeecenecusceeseccececeessanssneceesessnsencsesessnssnessnsovestucceneeasGrace V. Price 360 A Song of the Sewing Machine 2002 cic cee ceceeecneeeceeneceeeeeeeeceeeceececeeeeeceneeacceecccoeeeeneneecesShirley Thulin 362 Rachel Kirkham Wanlass Makes Unique Gifts for MIA GDS occcaecccceecccseeccccsecscveeccosdutecceseesveeeseveeeconvecs 371 Your Pre-School Playmates 200.2 cee cececeseeeecneeecceeececceccensscenceeseceecaceecneeseneeeueeeceecesesesceenejanet W. Breeze 391 POETRY On a May Morning — Frontispiece 20.0.0 ec eeeseeeecceceeeeececeeceeseeseesecceeeeeceeeesOuida Johns Pedersen 313 Memories, Lela Foster Morris, 319; The Constant Generation, Lael W. Hill, 324; The Sentinel, Zara Sabin, 325; I Love You, Florence S. Glines, 341; For Mother's Day, Dorothy I. Roberts, 351; Mine for Keeps, Ida Elaine James, 353; Spring Cleaning, Vesta N. Fairbairn, 354; New House in Old Orchard, Maude Rubin, 354; New Day, Leora Larsen, 354; Party, Christie Lund Coles, 361; Wait for Me, Sun, Mabel Jones Gabbott, 370; Seeking, Catherine B. Bowles, 391; Each 'Day, Mae L. Curtis, 392. 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Page 315 Portrait of a Mother William J]. Critchlow, Jr. Assistant to the Council of the Twelve Artist, Your model is dearer than any other. Paint beauty, when painting The portrait of mother. HE lady sat across the aisle one row ahead of me in the coach I boarded one morning at Ogden. She was alone. The pillow in the vacant seat beside her bore mute evidence that she had spent the night on the train. She was napping when, accidentally in a straying glance, I saw a faint smile break on her thin lips. It faded, reappeared, and faded again, all in a moment, and then of a sudden it broadened almost to a grin, bringing with it a gush of tears which her eyelids failed miserably to restrain. Eyelids never were tear-tight anyway. God purposely made them that way, and hers were no exception. Obviously embarrassed, she quickly brushed them aside with her bare hands, succeeding only in smearing them all over her cheeks. I watched her dry the cheeks with a handkerchief. Her face was thin, pale, unadorned by any sort of make-up — and unmistakably sad — without her smile. Before the conductor came in to announce Salt Lake City as the next stop, she nervously slipped into her coat, adjusted her hat in the window glass, settled forward in her seat, pressed her face against the windowpane, and sat almost motionless until the train idled to a stop. She was looking for someone, of that there could be no doubt. Page 316 —Helen Gray Robertson There was a sheer look of disappointment on her sad face when she left her seat and hastilv "elbowed" her wav into the line of disembarking passengers, keeping the while, her eyes glued on the window. Presently, I saw, but not before she did, three women come alongside the car. One was carrying a child — a little girl, Out of the line of passengers she bolted back to the window. With rapid, violent taps on the sturdy glass, she attracted their attention and immediately the child was brought to the window and boosted high up near the windowpane. Pointing hands directed its attention to the excited lady in the car. I could not hear the women's voices but. I did read their lips, "Look, there's Mummy — see Mummy?" The child stared soberly. Could "Mummy" have been gone so long away that she was forgotten? I wondered, but not for long. Suddenly, almost explosively, the child came to life. Its face brightened — its legs began to kick — its arms stretched out to the window — its lips were crving, "Mummy — Mummy!" The child's crying 'intensified as the mother, inside the window, bolted back again into the line of passengers out of the child's sight. I stood aside to give her my place in the line. As she brushed by me hot PORTRAIT OF A MOTHER tears fell upon my hand. Truthfully, I do not know whose tears they were — hers or mine! Need I describe further that happy reunion? Have you ever witnessed a greater love than that of a mother for her child? Does the love of a child for its mother match it? Children have been commanded to love their mothers: "Honour (love) thy father and thy mother (Exodus 20:12). Husbands have been commanded to love their wives (the mothers of their children): "Thou shalt love thy wife with all thy heart (D & C 42:22). We have all been commanded to love our God: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind" (Mt. 22:37). UT where in such strong language as "WITH ALL THY HEART" have mothers ever been commanded to love their children? No such commandment comes readily to my mind nor shall I spend time searching for one because | firmly believe that God, choosing women as his partners in the creative process, tucked away somewhere in their hearts a larger spark of his divine love, which later glows to brilliance in a mother's heart, and this endowment, it seems to me, obviates the need for a specific commandment to love their children. This love is inherent. It operates automatically — even instinctively. In lower forms of animal life it is called instinct. Hunters have told about the fury of the mother bear when her cub is molested. We have observed the mother hen scratch for worms to 317 feed her chicks, and we have seen her spread her feathered wings to provide a protective covering against cold and the night. Call it instinct or whatever else you may, I still believe the tender care and affection the mother of my children has for her children is the noblest and the greatest kind of love. It is matchless, eternal, and I thank God for so endowing her. "There is a love," said Rufus Choate, "which comes uncalled for, one knows not how. It comes with the very air, the eye, the ear, the instincts... The first beating of the heart." Edgar Allan Poe has written: I feel that, in the Heavens above, The angels, whispering to one another, Can find, among their burning terms of love, None so devotional as that of Mother. The love of a good mother stands next to the love of our Heavenly Father. If one would only give a comparable amount of such mother's love to our Heavenly Father, such devotion might well satisfy the commandment: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart.. The family is an organization. Every organization needs a spokesman. 'he father in the Latter-day Saint family, by reason of his Priesthood, is the spokesman, also the priest in his own family. The mother is: The Heart — There is a center to each home from which all joys must start — the center of the home? It is a mother's heart. The Co-creator — God's partners in the creating processes — the architects and builders of all humanity. 318 The Expeditor — In the absence of father, she leads the family to prayers and always to its duties. The Teacher — She teaches the little children their first prayers. She teaches by example. The mother who drinks coffee even though she denies it to her children has failed to effectively teach the Word of Wisdom. "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it'' (Proverbs 22:6). The Dietician — She wants her children to grow up strong and healthy. The Cook — The daughters, her assistants. The Nurse — Sickness, though uninvited, visits occasionally in every home. The Psychiatrist — Principally for her husband, for whom she is the receptacle for all his cares and most of his ill humor. Somewhere it is written that "'the virtues of the mothers shall be visited on their children as well as the sins of the fathers." "A mother," says Jim Reed, "is a composite. She's your nurse when you skin your knee, your conqueror when you're across her knee. She's your provider at mealtime, your teacher for home work. She scolds, laughs, and loves." NCE when my three children were in their tender years, my wife and I joined four other couples on a two-weeks vacation tour of the Northwest. It took a powerful lot of persuading to get my wife to leave the children in the loving care of the grandparents. I am sure, there was scarcely a moment all the while we were away when the children were not uppermost in my wife's mind. Early in the second week she had a feeling that all was not right at home. "I am needed at home," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 she said. "Something has happened — the children are sick!" "Mamma, you worry too much," I replied, and the others all sustained me — but to no avail. So, sooner than we had planned, we started for home. I shall never forget that last, long day's drive. I was at the wheel, my wife at my side urging me on and on: "Faster, faster, don't stop for lunch — don't stop for dinner — keep going." It was late that night when grandma tearfully greeted us at the door: "We have done all we know how to do, so has the doctor. Your Bobbie is very sick. He needs you. I am so glad you're home!" Now how did the mother know that all was not night at home? Has God endowed mothers with another special gift — a something we might call intuition? Only this I know: I could have made fewer errors through the years had I substituted at times this mother's intuition for my rationalism. Intuition is kin to inspiration. Reason in itself is not a source of knowledge; it must often give way to a mother's sense of perception. You may call it intuition, inspiration, or whatever you like, but you will be exercising wisdom if you will heed it now and then. Motherhood is just another name for sacrifice—a synonym for devotion. Mothers never love too much but some love not too well. Those who indulge their children often spoil them; those who neglect them, hiring out for wages, even though the wages provide comforts, convenience, cars, or whatever else the mothers think their children need, often contribute to their delinquency. No profession, no career can PORTRAIT OF A MOTHER compare with motherhood. A mother's place is in the home. May I suggest a creed for mothers? Since to this work, Father, thou hast called me — a partner in the creation process — help me to give it all that thou hast given me of love and gentleness and insight, and wisdom and strength and patience and forgiveness. I accept the calling of motherhood as a noble career — even the holiest and the happiest of all earth's tasks. HOUGHTS of mothers," said Richard L. Evans, "somehow seem to symbolize the sense of belonging; of home and family, of the love of loved ones, the lasting, healing kind of love, which Emerson said, "is the remedy for all blunders, the cure for all blindness... The redeemer and instructor of souls.' " 319 John Ruskin wrote: "The perfect loveliness of a woman's [mother's] countenance can only consist in that majestic peace, which is founded in the memory of happy and useful years queens you [mothers] must always be... Queens to your husbands and your sons... Wherever a true wife [mother] comes, this home is always round her. 'The stars only may be over her head... But home is yet wherever she is... With a love that heals, that waits and watches, a love that gives, and does and shares, and shelters and understands...." "Thank God for mothers, you who have them. And you who have not now, thank him for such a mother to remember. And you, the young mothers who have children yet around you, God grant that you may give them such love, such memories to remember" (Richard L. Fvans ). Memories Lela Foster Morris Memories I have of olden yesterdays, Leaf-shadowed lanes and flower-bordered ways; Children gathering anemones on a windy hill In early spring; I wonder if they bloom there still. Small, white-clad figures trudging up the stair, Dimpled hands folded reverently in prayer, Like sleeping angels in their cosy beds; Pale silken curls were halos for their heads. Cherished scenes of an olden yesteryear, Of all life's bliss and ecstasies most dear, Locked away in memory's treasure chest, Deep in my heart forever there to rest. Hazel Sowards Cannon Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Luella F. Okeson Instructor of English, Granite School District, Salt Lake City, Utah HAZEL SOWARDS CANNON AZEL Sowards Cannon was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society February 21, 1962. She has accepted the responsibility in a spirit worthy of a devoted Latter-day Saint woman. Among her many qualifications for the position are a truly humble attitude, a sincere love of her fellow beings, and a vital, innate graciousness of manner. Sister Cannon is the daughter of Harmon S. And Ida Rebecca Jensen Sowards. These devout Latter-day Saints settled in Vernal, Utah. Fer father is a civic- -minded, friendly, generous man with a distinguished record of service in his community and Church. Her mother, now deceased, was also a devout Church and civic worker; a genteel woman, sensitive to the needs of others, and creative in every phase of her life. Page 320 Sister Cannon graduated from Uintah High School in Vernal. Later, she received a degree in home economics from Utah State University in Logan, Utah. She taught at Granite High School for two years. On August 30, 1934, she was married to Hyrum P. Cannon in the Logan Temple. 'They have two children. Harmon S. Cannon has fulfilled a mission to the Eastern States and, with his sister, Ida Christine, is now attending the University of Utah. Sister Cannon has created a lovely, distinctive home for the family, and has proved that real homemaking is an art. 'True to her early training, she has always — been devoted to serving her Church. She has been an active Relief Society worker, having held positions as a visiting teacher, literature class. Leader, work meeting lesson instructor, and counselor in the presidency of the Federal Heights Ward, Emigration Stake. In recent years Sister Cannon has returned to teaching school. With her keen interest in education, she enjoys this outlet and finds satisfaction in it. She taught at Olympus High School from 1954 to 1956, and at the present time is on the faculty at Central Junior High School. Surely Sister Cannon's marked spiritual qualities and extensive background in Relief Society work will enable her to be dedicated, wise, and conscientious in the performance of her new duties. Hazel Sperry Love Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Mary R. Young Member, General Board of Relief Society HAZEL SPERRY LOVE HAzZet Sperry Love was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society March 7, 1962. She comes to her new position with a rich background of training and of service and leadership in the Church. Her faith, sincere testimony of the gospel, enthusiastic willingness and capacity for work are but a few of her outstanding qualifications. Sister Love was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, to William A. And Anna Eardley Sperry in a home where she was taught the principles of the gospel and to accept every opportunity which came to her to serve the Church. She was married to J. Leonard Love in the Salt Lake Temple on March 18, 1919, and has always supported and encouraged him in Church positions, as Bishop of Yalecrest Ward, member of the Church Welfare Committee, Mission President, and in his present position as a Reginal Supervisor of Stake Missions. 'Together, they created a beautiful spiritual home for their three children, Jay L., Richard S. And Joyce (Mrs. Spencer Jenson), all of whom were married in the temple. Sister Love brings a wealth of experience to her new assignment. She served as head of the Relief Society in the Northern California Mission when her husband presided over that Mission. She has worked diligently in all of the auxiliary organizations of the Church since she was a young girl. Her wonderful influence was felt by the young people as she served as an officer in the MIA. As a Relief Society worker, she was an outstanding visiting teacher for many years. She was a counselor and then president of the Relief Society in Yalecrest Ward, Bonneville Stake, and later served as first counselor in the stake presidency of Relief Society in Bonneville Stake. At the time of her call, she was a member of the Sunday School Board in Parleys Stake. Her rich experience, exceptional executive ability, plus her sincere testimony and genuine love for Relief Society will contribute added strength to the General Board. Page 32] 324 d. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 ognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1962. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The Constant Generation Lael W. Hill My father and my mother see Still, the child I used to be — And cannot quite admit that now The twig they bent is equal bough. My children; willow-lithe, behold In me a full shade, heavy, old; To tell the green years I, too, crossed Is leaf on lost leaf laid and lost. Between these young, those old, I stand, My roots in theirs twined strand with strand, And know — whatever time falls by — I was... I shall be... Lam I. REWARDS OF HAPPINESS To try to discover our failings and exchange them for virtues will bring rewards of happiness in this life and throughout eternity. —Pauline M. Bell SHAN RURERIN RUD gos NET we ee ee SN ae te gs OF Jeff Thomson SENTINEL PINE ABOVE YOSEMITE VALLEY, CALIFORNIA The Sentinel Zara Sabin Tall it stands upon the mountain's crest. Wild wintry winds, the summer's scorching sun, And storms of all the seasons strive to wrest It from its princely place. Both east and west It tops the plain, the rivers as they run, The fertile fields, in checkerboard design — (Where persevering man has hardly won His fight with nature, not to be outdone) — And spreads its branches far, a welcome sign That squirrel or nesting bird may be a guest Whenever they desire, or wandering kine May seek its shade — staunch sentinel, a pine. Page 325 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part Il-Mercy Fielding Thompson Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting said to have been painted in Nauvoo, Illinois, by William Majors Page 326 _ than a half centurv. Dear little woman, Mrs. Mercy Rachel Fielding Thompson, died at her home in the Sixteenth Ward in Salt Lake City, on September 15, 1893. She had lived a long and useful life. On the previous fifteenth day of June, she had observed her eighty-sixth birthday. The day after her death, the following appeared in the Deseret News: "Sister 'Thompson was widely known and highly esteemed among the Latter-day Saints, with whom she had been associated for more v. She was at the time of her demise, one of the eldest members of the Church, in connection with which her life had been one of faith and noble sacrifice. She was a sister to the mother of President Joseph F. Smith. Her husband, Robert B. 'Thompson, who was the secretary to the Prophet Joseph Smith, died at Nauvoo on August 27, 1841." It is not my purpose here to write a sketch of the life of Sister Thompson, but only to say that for a few brief years she had the rare privilege of an intimate personal acquaintance with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and with her gift of writing she recorded and published some of her experiences. In an article printed in_ the Juvenile Instructor in July 1893, she tells us that she was born in England in June 1807, and that, together SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH with her sister Mary, and her brother Joseph Fielding, she emigrated to Canada in 1832. At Toronto in 1836, she was converted to the Mormon religion, and baptized by Parley P. Pratt. The following year, with her sister and brother, she made her way to Kirtland, Ohio, the headquarters of the Church. And then she continues: "My first introduction to the Prophet Joseph Smith, was in May, 1837, at Kirtland, Ohio; and on the 4th of June, following, I again met him at Brother John Gaylard's house in Kirtland, where a small company of friends had gathered to witness the ceremony of my marriage to Robert B. Thompson, the Prophet performing the ceremony. "There were present on this occasion several of the T'welve Apostles with their wives, also the aged Patriarch Joseph Smith and_ his wife — father and mother of the Prophet —— and also my brother Joseph Fielding, and my sister Mary, who soon afterwards became. The wife of Hyrum Smith. "After the marriage ceremony was over we listened with joy and profit to the words of instruction and counsel which fell from the inspired lips of Joseph Smith, each word carrying to our hearts deeper and stronger convictions that we were listening to a mighty Prophet of God. "In February 1839, while Joseph and Hyrum Smith, with four other brethren were incarcerated in Liberty jail, I accompanied my sister Mary from Far West, to visit them. It would be beyond my power to describe my feelings when we were admitted into the jail by the keeper and the door was locked behind us. We could not help feeling a sense 327 MERCY FIELDING 'THOMPSON From a Portrait in Andrew Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. Said to be the only picture of Mrs. 'Thompson in existence of horror on realizing that we were locked up in that dark and dismal den, fit only for criminals of the deepest dye; but there we' beheld Joseph, the Prophet, the man chosen of God in the dispensation of the fullness of times to hold the keys. Of His kingdom on the earth, with power to bind and to loose as God should direct, confined in a loathsome prison for no other cause or reason than that he claimed to be inspired of God to establish His Church among men. There also we found his noble brother, Hyrum, who, I believe was not charged with any other crime than that of being a friend to his brother Joseph. The night was spent in fearful forebodings, owing to a false rumor having gone out that the prisoners contemplated making an attempt to escape, which greatly enraged the jailor and the guards. 328 NDER these circumstances we were constrained to _ bid adieu to the Prophet and his brethren, and hasten our departure from Liberty. My sister was in very delicate health, having with her her babe only three months old, whom his father then saw for the first time. (This "babe" became President Joseph F. Smith, the sixth President of the Church. ) "The next time I saw the Prophet was on his arrival at Quincy, IIlinois, after his almost miraculous escape from Missouri, with his fellow-prisoners, in April, 1839. Soon after this, arrangements were made for the Saints, who had been expelled from Missouri, to settle at Commerce, afterwards Nauvoo, where I became more intimately acquainted with the Prophet, in consequence of my husband being employed as his secretary, and to whom the Prophet became very much attached, so much so that one day he jocosely said to me, 'Sister Thompson, you must not feel bad towards me for keeping your husband away from you so much, for I am married to him'; they truly loved each other with fervent brotherly affection. "I have seen the Prophet under a great variety of circumstances, in public, in domestic and social life and in sacred places. "T have seen him as if carried away by the power of God beyond all mortal conception, when speaking to the Saints in their public gatherings; and in less public places I have heard him explaining to the brethren and sisters the glorious principles of the gospel, as no man could, except by prophetic power. "In a social gathering of the Saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 at the Bowery near the site of the Temple, I saw him rejoicing with the people, perfectly sociable and without reserve, occasionally uttering jokes for their amusement and moving upon the same plane with the humblest and poorest of his friends; to him there were no strangers and by all he was known as the Prophet and friend of humanity. "I saw him by the bed-side of Emma, his wife, in sickness, exhibiting all the solicitude and sympathy possible for the tenderest of hearts and the most affectionate of natures to feel. And by the death-bed of my beloved companion, I saw him stand in sorrow, reluctantly submitting to the decree of Providence, while the tears of love and sympathy freely flowed. Joseph took charge of the funeral ceremonies, strictly adhering to my husband's wish that there should be no military or other display at his burial as had been but a short time before on the occasion of the burial of Joseph's brother, Don Carlos, both having been officers in the legion. "Don Carlos died August 7, 1841, Joseph's little son, Don Carlos, died about August 18, now, Robert B. Thompson, his faithful secretary, on the 27th of the same month, so that Joseph could feel the import of the lines of Dr. Young addressed to death: "Thy shafts flew thrice and thrice my peace was slain.' "This indeed was a time of sorrow, but I can never forget the tender sympathy and brotherly kindness he ever showed toward me and my fatherless child. When riding with him and his wife Emma in their carriage, I have known him to alight and gather prairie flowers for my little girl. SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH "IT have been present at meetings of the Relief Society and heard him give directions and counsels to the sisters, calculated to inspire them to efforts which would lead to celestial glory and exaltation, and oh! How my heart rejoiced! '¢ A T another time — at a time never to be forgotten — I was present at a meeting when Joseph knelt down with the small congregation surrounding him, when every sentence he uttered seemed to convey to my mind, and to the minds of others present, the impression that this was our last meeting together — and so it was. "A few days after this he called at his brother Hyrum's to take leave of the family previous to their crossing the Mississippi River, intending to go west to the Rocky Mountains to seek out, if possible, a place of peace and safety for the Saints. His parting words to my sister Mary, as she wept at their going, were these: 'Sister Mary, don't feel bad, the Lord will take care of you, and He will deliver us, but I do not know how.' The two brothers then started to cross the river, not knowing whether they would ever see their homes again or not. But on account of the feelings expressed by some of the brethren, who should have been their truest friends, and by their 329 urgent request, sent after them, the brothers returned to Nauvoo the following day. Watching from a chamber window I saw them being rowed in a skiff across the river, until they landed, and walked up the river bank to Hyrum's house, where they both entered, Joseph seating himself, while Hyrum made some changes in his clothing, when they both went on to the Mansion. "Although I did not know that the brothers had returned home to be taken as 'lambs to the slaughter,' my feelings were indescribable, and the very air seemed burdened with sorrowful forebodings. "The awful scene at Carthage followed in a few days, and here all men must draw the veil, for until all the truth concerning these good men, and this black deed of their murderous foes, can be told and understood, the history of this time will not be written. But the day will come when God will speak, and the martyrs and their history shall be known. "T received my endowments by the directions of the Prophet Joseph, his wife Emma officiating in my case, and in his instructions to me at that time he said: "This will bring you out of darkness into marvelous light'" (Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 27, pp. 398-400). TRUE PROGRESS qpsce progress is to start with little, apparently unimportant things — determined to keep going — to do one's very best. "Be ye perfect." The goal, perfection, for his Son said, —Pauline M. Bell Hand to the Plow PART I — TICKET WICKET Ilene H. Kingsbury And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee, but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God (Luke 9:61-62). Jie splintered floor of the railway station echoed the footfalls of fugitive humanity. Such furtive glances as the emigrants were observed to chance from under their black hats were noted as momentary. It would seem that curiosity was not a virtue and that any evidence of it was to be denied these most recent ocean-wafted people. However, there is that fine margin of out of the ordinary thinkers in any crowd, and two boys of fifteen and seventeen cared not to disguise their interest in everything American. And this is what they saw: 'They noted the ticket wicket with cage dividers and wrought-iron severity. So many travelers had stood before this official fare window that the imprint of two shoes just a little bigger than average size was worn in the floor. In fact, one almost slid into place while cautiously asking directions, prices, and free information. The same _ indented wearing of wood was to be noted at the entrance and exit doors where the shifted weight of thousands had flowed into the station and worn to slivers the but once painted threshold. The benches of the station were fashioned after church pews; straight, Page 330 unbending, severe, uninviting. They, at least, were worn smooth from constant sliding on the surface by wide-backed European peasants and ovetloaded baskets, carpetbags, and cloth bundles whose four corners were tied to form a clutch knot. Under each bench was a light film of dust, a lint gently sifted there as it broke from swishing skirts and shawls and coats threadbare from unrelieved usage. Light glanced through the tall, many glassed windows. 'These were seen to be fly specked and rain trickled. This was in the traditionally unkempt appearance of public buildings where pride was noticeably absent. A_ giant heater, called a forge stove, sat in the middle of the station and obscured the view of the opposite side of the room. Depending on the season, the woodbox was either bursting with stove lengths or brown and bare. It was scarred and beseeched a coat of paint, or an armful of fuel to hide its lonely cavity. Along one side of the station was a row of benches which needed no sign of "For Men Only" to designate who should properly sit there; for, in a line directly in front, and at equally spaced intervals, one saw a platoon of spittoons at convenient striking distance from this obvious- HAND TO THE PLOW ly reserved male section of the station. Needless to say, no respectable lady would have been seen waiting there, though she might stand for hours, holding a babe in her arms, and have another clinging to her skirts. As this was midsummer, the doors of the station were propped open with scraps of railing, their 'T-shaped style lending itself to easy handling and their weight lending itself to utility as a doorstop. It was quite obvious that in winter the doors would be dragged open with the entrance of a newcomer, and hastily closed by him as petulant glances of shivering travelers were cast in his direction. This would no doubt keep the air warm, but no doubt stale. T was a hazard to walk about this place, for baggage rooms had not been invented, and personal accouterments were fearfully kept near the owners. 'This obviously meant that monstrous piles of trunks and boxes of cloth, carpet, leather, and basketry were placed adjacent to each family and never left unguarded for a moment. 'Teenage children were assigned this duty and were the only insurance against loss and _ theft. Depending upon the nationality of the emigrants, the "possibles" were colorful or drab, valuable or useless, secure or hazardous, each attesting private means and social status. It was not unusual for bird cages to perch atop a pile of bedding. Then, crouched in a comfortable blob of feather pillows, sound asleep with fist clutching the pet's abode, a little girl could be seen worn unconscious by emigration. Such blessed sleep was not for a 331 twelve-year-old who sat stolidly on a seaman's trunk and counted over and over the number of bundles, sacks, boxes, and containers which represented the entire wardrobe of her family. 'To lose even one bulky item presaged disaster. Often one saw a pair of children taking turns walking around and around their family belongings in a sort of restricted exercise. Or perhaps they took turns at it while the other ran beyond the doorway to peer up and down the platform. A brave one might even dart beyond that safety island to place his ear on the rails to hear if a train was coming a long way off. If trains were delayed — no business schedule being guaranteed — it was possible for families to sleep among their accumulated possessions, thus saving expenditures for a room. 'This also permitted the excuse to eat in the station. The one lunchroom, a built on afterthought sort of thing, was not large enough to accommodate more than a score of famished men who shouldered their way to standing bar counters for a swig of something hot and filling. 'There were two odors here, beans and tobacco. Either of these, or a commingling of both, sickened most emigrants. 'They then organized themselves to send responsible members out into the town to buy loaves of varicolored and_ varitextured bread, a pail of milk, a few apples, if in season, or if fortune favored them, even a cooked hen or pork side. The miscellany was brought into the waiting room, spread about the tops of trunks and boxes and the family served in careful portions by the mistress of the community, the mother. 332 T could be noted that never, never was all the food eaten at one meal. 'Though hunger was said to be consuming, the gangling sons who at home ate like the cows, as they sometimes said, times and places were different now. Almost niggardly portions were doled out and always some saved for the next meal, just in case more could not be found. 'This precious conservation of a biscuit or two was a learned fetish with most emigrants. No one believed this was a sign of stinginess, but of foresight for the very young, the ailing, and the aged. A little crust became a comfort to teething infants and was not missed by more husky children. It was in this setting that Welsh Eddie, his mother, two little sisters, and two brothers could have been discovered that summer of 1864. The geographical location was a bit out of Philadelphia, U. S. A., and was one of a series already explored and acquainted with and was to be continued as a series west and on west as far as the tracks were laid. And as long as one knew life was not to be permanently lived in this unpainted frame station and the promised land would eventually unfold and welcome them and sustain them in comfort and plenty, what was this temporary crowding, smell, ceaseless vigilance to cause bother? The emigrant mother, who was a widow, having counted, fed, admonished, and otherwise cared for her little flock, straightened her shawl, fluffed out the ruffled lace cap which covered her hair under her tall-crowned, black Welsh hat, and resolutely approached the ticket wicket. She had timed her approach RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 so that no moment would be wasted waiting a turn. Her feet easily slid into the precarved groove of a thousand shoes, each as resolute as her own to keep on the march to a new life in this land long dreamed. The ticket agent glanced at her, and with clairvoyance reserved for public servants, threw aside formalities, got the destination and number of travelers out of her, and with flood intensity took over the scene. "Listen, lady, if you and your five children are going out West, and want to ride the trains as far as St. Joe, on the Missouri, and then catch a wagon train from there, why are you so worried about a little town in Pennsylvania that no one ever heard of and you don't even intend to get off and see?" HE station agent, as he adjusted his black gauntlet wrist protectors, certainly left but one answer. And why, indeed? But before the emigrant could assemble her Welsh words and reassemble them into Yankee of the Americas, the agent stampeded his ideas in front of him. "And if I were you, lady, I wouldn't get off the train, either, what with the war in its fourth year, and the battle line swinging up and down the map like a bull whip over stubborn oxen. Why, one can't be sure from one stop to another that the train will not be invaded by soldiers, ours or the rebels, and you'd find yourself and the young ones sleeping on a ditch bank. Now, you certainly wouldn't want that. If I were you I would get on any old train that had a good cooking stove in it, just so it was headed West, and I'd stay on HAND TO THE PLOW just as long as the tracks were laid in my direction." The word direction gave the emigrant an idea. "Sir, do you have a map of the trains to the West?" At that the agent fairly shrieked in derision. "Listen, lady, this isn't a big settled country, that is not yet, and only the generals have the maps, and mighty poor ones they are, too. Once I tried to make myself a map of the railroads from New York, through Philadelphia, through Pittsburgh, and on over to the Mississippi. Do you know what it all looked like? Just an old maple leaf with the in-between parts decayed away and the meaty veins left running every which way. "If the stem was placed near Castle Gardens, the longest vein would point right across the country and end in St. Joe. Most trains shuttled about before you got over the mountains to Pittsburgh, and the scarce ones thinned out until only a couple of long scraggly ones got to the Mississippi river, and then one branch line dared to build out to where the trails of the prairie left the Missouri. Guess I didn't need a map after drawing that one. It's pretty simple. All one has to do is 333 ask where you are at each station, get on the next train heading West, and in about a half a month, there you ll be in St. Joe." "Then [Il take a ticket for my family right on to the end of your veined leaf," decided the emigrant. "Oh, no you won't. Why, lady, at least five companies have to sell you fares between here and the West. Why, even their cars don't look alike inside, let alone the tracks they roll on. Seems to me I heard one soldier say that sometimes the tracks are on a wide gauge, sometimes on a narrow one, and again on one of a completely individual width. You can't expect trains to roll along at that rate. Change the passengers, charge a new fare. Anyway, I hope you reach the big rivers before the soldiers get all the cars run to the battles. If you missed them, you would be left roaming, on foot, say in Ohio or Indiana. Of course, if you get beyond those wild places, then Illinois and Missouri might be reached. My bet is that an ox team is surer and safer than any steam engine hereabouts." (To be continued ) Treetops Celia Luce ae full fury of the wind hits the top of the tree. The rain beats down on the topmost branches, and, in winter, snow bends them down. There. But it is at the treetop that the sun shines brightest, and the rosiest fruit grows The growing tips of the branches may point toward God's blue sky. Safe, inner branches wither away and die. The Oatmeal Box Violet Nimmo | gga morning as I prepared my child's breakfast of oatmeal, eggs, fruit, and milk, I had come to the bottom of the oatmeal box. I had a strange feeling of guilt as I tossed the empty box into the waste basket. I retrieved the box and while the little Quaker man smiled at me, I was reminiscing about my childhood and a wonderful nostalgia hit me like the crisp winter air. I said aloud to myself, "This wonderful oatmeal box." I received a look from my son that said, "Are you daydreaming again, Mother?" My thoughts went back to the golden days when I sat and ate a breakfast of oatmeal, questioning my mother's daydreams. I reflected that when I was a child we had an infinite variety of uses for the empty oatmeal box. I could visualize a decorative arrangement of dry plant material, with its sculpturesque beauty, like that which was placed in the center of our old-fashioned round table. We would come home from school and look into the cupboard for the oatmeal box. It contained some spicy ginger snaps or crisp sugar cookies with small misshapen lumps of hard sugar that had forgotten to melt, or perhaps, one held some rich brown doughnuts, all of which our mother lovingly baked for us. Now I was pedaling my bicycle to the old farm where I purchased a box of brown eggs, always receiving an extra one or two, or a midget egg the kindly farmer's wife gave me for myself. Perhaps she would treat me to a glass of buttermilk and a piece of pie before returning home. I remember one time I had an accident on the bicycle and dropped the eggs, which were all broken. Afraid to go home, I returned to the farm and offered my services as a helper to pay for another box of eggs. Yes, she saved oatmeal boxes, too, and I was sent happily on my way with a new order of eggs, only in a box of a different brand. I could see the loaded shelves in our old cave cellar, holding the dried peas, beans, and popcorn which were stored for winter, and the boxes of seeds my father saved from the most choice fruits and flowers to be planted the following year. I saw the tomato and cabbage plants carefully being transplanted from the box to the garden. There was the shelf that held decorated oatmeal boxes, with each child's name printed across the top, where we kept our clean stockings, all rolled up neatly. There were waste baskets we made from them to hold our trimmings of paper while cutting pictures from magazines or pretty greeting cards, or to hold small toys such as tinker toys and blocks. Even nails, screws, and hinges were saved and placed in the boxes for repairing objects about the house. The oatmeal box also had its use as a darning basket. Our mother would sit in the evening and mend our stockings and tell us stories, or she would keep a box for buttons or a thread container. As my son kissed me boodbye and left for school, I carefully placed the oatmeal box with the smiling Quaker man on the shelf in my cupboard. Perhaps I would make some old-fashioned sugar cookies for him this morning. But how did my mother get those yummy little chunks of hard sugar on the top? Page 334 A DOG AND HIS MAID Shirley Sargent Y home is a forested area M adjacent to Yosemite National Park where I have well water, and hot and cold running mosquitoes. My typewriter, record player, and young, old-maid self have lived a happy, carefree, pine-needle life here until this summer. In late June, a summer ranger friend asked if I would dog-sit with a Dachshund belonging to another seasonal ranger who had come from Oklahoma with his dog, not knowing dogs were not allowed in the park. "No," I answered violently. "A dog has to be fed and watered, curried, and carried. I come and go too much. Absolutely not." "But it would onlv be for two months, and a dog would be good company." Unfeelingly, I interrupted, "Tim here is all the company I need and he can feed himself." Mv dear friend's fourteen-year-old visiting son looked disturbed, not amused. The ranger expostulated, "How can you be so selfish? Kennel life would be sickening for Fritz and his owners. 'The youngest boy cried himself to sleep last night." "Tough," I said heartlessly. Pi prize my independence." At this stony moment, big-eyed, dog-loving Tim began to beg and plead that, while he was around, he would do everything — feed, water, chase, quiet, and bathe Fritz — so that I would have neither care nor complaint. My ranger friend hastened my ungracious capitulation by adding, "Fritz's mistress says she'll be glad to do your washing and ironing in exchange for the dog's board." That did it. The well was low, the nearest laundromat twelve mountain miles away, and I detested ironing. RITZ came, and both he and I complained vociferously for two davs. I didn't like his whimpering, his cold, wet nose, or his barking. He hated his leash, being away from his loving family, and the cold nights in our outdoor "dorm." Poor Tim bore up bravely under my scathing I-told-you-so's and Fritz's heartbroken cries until two AM. When he quieted the dog's shivering and lonesomeness by shoving him down in his sleeping bag. My objections to this unclean bedmate were blotted out bv the blessed quiet. The next: morning I tried to look at the dog objectively. He was a compact, muscled, brown bundle of nervous energy with pretty markings and soulful brown eves. He was so short, the wild daisies hid him and so nervously brave he barked at falling pine cones. Tim showed me proudly that Fritz would sit and beg, but this didn't impress me in view of the time he spent on the couch and beds. He was a spoiled, beloved dog, and losing his family was, obviously, a traumatic experience. Most of the day he whimpered to Page 335 336 go out and, once there, cried to be off his leash. Even Tim seemed disenchanted by his charge, and I thought vainly of ways to rid myself of the pest. Unexpectedly and dismayingly, that was accomplished when I opened the back door in answer to a friend's hail and out shot Fritz. Tim and I spent a hot, breezeless afternoon looking for the escapee. Gnats buzzed, dust rose, tempers heightened, and echoes of futile calls were our only accomplishment. 'Tim worried about Fritz being thirsty, tired, chased by bears, bitten by a snake, and irretrievably lost. More selfishly, I fretted about what his ranger family would sav and feel and lamented how short-lived would be my vacation from ironing. Toward evening, a panting, dusty Fritz dragged in, gulped water, nuzzled Tim, and fell heavily asleep under, not on, the couch. After that, there was no more whimpering, running away, or need fora leash. Fritz was 'Tim's shadow. I had as little to do with him as possible, but was amused at the way his ears flopped as he ran and the way he bounced over the mountainside. Tim taught him not to jump on the beds, but he was still a pest. He cried so we couldn't—or, rather, Tim wouldn't—leave him home alone. In the car, he climbed over and on us and, of course, while we shopped or went sightseeing in Yosemite Valley, he had to be restrained by a leash — a calamity which he bore with the equanimity of a caged bear. Still, his mistress was doing our washing and ironing and supplying the smelly, dog food with so many compliments on our stewardship, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 felt as if I were the "Good Neighbor" of 1962. HEN came the day Tim left for home and the whimpering routine began again. I had to see that Fritz had food and water and tried angrily to quiet his barking when friends came to see me. He seemed to realize he was the man of the house and protected me fiercely, if misguided, by barking, growling fairly menacingly, and pawing the ground so that dirt and pine needles flew all over the paths. He followed me everywhere. In the mornings, he greeted me as if he hadn't seen me in days — jumping on me, wiggling, and nuzzling my hands. It was flattering and I knew I had made the team with Fritz. One afternoon, he scurried out from under the couch in obvious distress and tried his best to make it outside before he was sick. He missed, but looked so abject and mournful that I heard myself saving, "That's all right, honey. You couldn't help it." Honey! Fritz had made the team with me. T remained utterly adamant at having him in or on my bed, or talking baby talk to him, but when he stood and begged for loving, I gave it to him and, when I shivered out of my swim in the river, his warm, lovable body felt good. Occasionally, I submitted to his licking; often I played with him, and frequently I talked to him. Our "lovematch" continued until summers end when Fritz left with his real family. My prized independence is inviolate again. The only responsibil- A DOG AND HIS MAID ity I have is for myself and a huge pile of ironing. Happy, carefree, independent? Sure, that's I, but I miss the ecstatic morning loving, the floppy ears, yours-but-to-command eyes, 337 and faithful shadow of Fritz. 'Thanks to him, now there is room in my part of the woods, under my bed, and in my heart for a dog that will belong to me, not just summers, but all seasons of the year. Sonnet for a Somber Day Evalyn Miller Sandberg A morning sky is overcast with gray, And ivy-festooned oaks blend ash with green, While on their boughs dark crows in silence sway, Subdued by seeming imminence of rain. A legendary chief on yonder peak Is blanketed with fog and hovering cloud; The timberline my eyes habitually seek, And foothills, too, now lie beneath a shroud. This quiet setting cradles roof and wall, Displays a house as jewels held to light; And here, in warmth and safety, within call, Are those I love, and much that gives delight. My little kitchen, done in tangerine Seems, on this day, especially serene. Keep Dreaming Nancy M. Armstrong oye ss were never meant to die unused, though time and changing needs must sometimes alter them. A dream is the budding of accomplishment. To relinquish it is to forsake an uncompleted task. And to stop dreaming is to lose the motivation for radiant living. Dreams that are pursued keep enthusiasm alive, enlarge our horizons, increase our capacity for the success we desire. They keep us aware, not only of what we desire to achieve, but of what we ought to strive to achieve. Keep Dreaming! e | | Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE SEVEN RULES OF HARMONY: 1. Make the sacred spirit of peace a living power in your life. 2. Never listen, without protest, to insinuations, vituperations, or unjust accusations against the members of your family or your fellow-citizens. 3. Seek to understand the spint of the national laws and: obey those which exist. 4. Dedicate your thought and use your influence to develop the national and patriotic spirit. 5. Do not destroy... Instead, make it your object to plant, to nourish.... 6. Teach your children and your dependents what you may learn with regard to justice and peace. 7. Seek each day to utter some word, or to perform some little action which will promote the cause of peace, whether at home or abroad. — Selected LETTER FROM ST. GEORGE: My counselors and myself, of the Relief Society, Sisters Morris and Bleak... Traveled down the Virgin River. The people are making homes along the river, settling in little patches. We took dinner with Sister Bodilla M. Johnson at her home a few miles above Mosquito Fat, then went on to the town of Mosquit... We met with the members of Relief Society, and a number of brethren met with us. We urged the sisters to live their religion, store grain, take care of the sick and afflicted, provide for the poor and needy and comfort the hearts of those that are called upon to mourn, to teach the children to pray from imfamey, and they will arise and call them blessed.. — Ann C. Woodbury COURAGE Why should I hug life's ills with cold reserve, To cure myself and all who love me? Nay! A thousand times more good than I deserve, God gives me every day. And in each one of these rebellious tears Kept bravely back he makes a rainbow shine, Grateful I take his slightest gift, no fears Nor doubts are mine. — Celia Thaxter FOUR SCORE YEARS: A happy anniversary celebration was commemorated on Saturday, May 3, 1902, in the handsome old parlors at the historic Bee Hive House, the occasion being the eightieth birthday anniversary of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, one of the most noble mothers in Israel in this dispensation.... Sister Smith occupies. The highest place of honor among the Latter-day Saint women, president of the Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day Saints in all the world. It is therefore most appropriate her name should be known among our people, and honors accorded her, befitting the position she holds. — Editorial THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT: | If the sisters could realize the importance of having a paper of their own and the prestige it gives to their work, surely they would bestir themselves to obtain subscriptions... And better supply the needs of the women... Who are looking for light, knowledge and wisdom.... — Editorial Page 338 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon R. MARY I. BUNTING, fiftvone, mother of one daughter and three sons, is also a microbiologist and President of Radcliffe College (for women), associated with Harvard. She believes the future will require women's abilities as well as men's. Her girls at Radcliffe regard their president as a "marvelous woman." Dr. Bunting has alwavs stood for family first in a woman's life. THE proportion of girls in United States colleges in 1920 was forty-seven per cent. Now it is only thirty-seven per cent, and only a little more than half of those college girls stay with it long enough to get a degree. Of the top highschool seniors who skip college, twothirds are girls. BARBARA TERRETT and William C. Wheaton, both of the University of Pennsylvania, and Martin Myerson of Harvard are joint authors of Housing, People and Cities, a book filled with information for people with a personal interest in housing, such as tax payers, builders, landlords, and zoning officials. 'The book clarifies the ways in which patterns of community growth are changing. ENORITA IRMA ARANGO, twenty-four, pretty and charming, and also a dynamo of energy, is the director of Panama's Tourist Bureau. Hoping to make tourism an outstanding industry, she advertises her country's scenic and _ historical attractions all over the hemisphere, working for conventions and visits from vacationers. MADAME WANDA _ LANDOWSKA, the greatest harpsichordist of our modern day, shortly before her recent death, recorded for Capitol Records twenty sonatas for harpsichord by Scarlatti. This series of records traces the history of music. RS. MARY ALLEN HOUK, widow of a Civil War soldier, recently celebrated her one-hundredand-seventh birthday in Lenoir City, Tennessee. Although blind and hard of hearing, she is still alert and interested in life. GINA BACHAUER is one of the world's foremost pianists. She recently received a tremendous ovation when she played with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. Page 339 ©— EDITORIAL —~9 VOL. 49 MAY 1962 The Cultural Values of Relief Society "IN the work of the Relief Society are intellectual, cultural, and spiritual values found in no other organization and sufficient for all general needs of its members." So stated the First Presidency in a letter to the Presidency, officers, and members of Relief Society upon the occasion of the issuing of A Centenary of Relief Society. This statement, coupled with the promise of the Prophet Joseph Smith that knowledge and intelligence would flow down to women, brings an awareness that the Lord would have his daughters instructed and engaged in intellectual pursuits. The dictionary defines culture as "the enlightenment and refinement of taste acquired by intellectual and aesthetic training." It further states that culture is "the act of developing by education, discipline and training." 'The desirability of attaining culture and refinement is apparent. Within the all-encompassing program of Relief Society are found the intellectual training and the educational opportunities to raise women to cultural heights. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints fosters education as one of the facets of the abundant life. "Education is not only a lifetime process, it is an eternal process." Much emphasis is placed on the continuous growth of mind and spirit, and use of the intelligence with which mortals are blessed from on high. The acquiring of culture Page 340 is an effort to improve or perfect through greater knowledge. This knowledge should serve to refine, to remove that which is dross, and serve aS an impetus to constantly seek further development. Inspiration and experience have led Relief Society to provide cultural training for women. Acquaintance with all of the fine arts adds beauty to life. Gentility of manner makes gracious living possible. Constant seeking to improve thwarts the temptations of the Adversary to remain idle, to be complacent with learning already attained, and so to retrogress. Latter-day Saints are under obligation to seek after truth. Great books contain much of this truth and should be read and studied. Foremost among great books are scriptures whose values to the reader are spiritual enlightenment, the fostering of high and lofty thoughts, the example of pure and beautiful language, and the motivating force of good actions. Relief Society members study the scriptures to make these various values part of their lives. Great writings which have stood the test of time are chosen to fill the mind with yearning for the good and the beautiful, to acquaint the heart with the evil of wrongdoing, and to keep the soul in tune with righteousness. Courses of study, approved by the brethren appointed by the First Presidency to this call- EDITORIAL ing, are presented by Relief Society for the uplifting of the women and through them, their families. Beautiful music exercises a refining influence and has appeal to the emotions. It can induce feelings of worshipfulness, tranquility, and peace, happiness, or sorrow, or it can move its hearers to militant action. Music and song are frequently mentioned in the scriptures, and the Lord has stated that he delights in the song of the righteous. More than cultural development to individuals has resulted from music taught in Relief Society. The Singing Mothers have been an aid to the missionary work of the Church and have brought joy to others. 341 Homemaking is a fine art involving both. Spiritual and _ physical beauty. The talents and creative abilities of women are used to the best advantage in the homes. A knowledge of other forms of great art advances these abilities of women. Compassion is an attribute of the cultured person, and a desire to serve ls engendered by knowledge of what is best to be done to make life beautiful for oneself and for others. Relief Society has ever endeavored to provide "the intellectual, cultural and spiritual values... Sufficient for the general needs of its members," which make life here and eternally what it is intended to be. —L. W. M. |-Love You Florence S. Glines Dear sister, I give you my love. It is more to feel than to see, And it always goes straight out, A path between you and me. Some people have riches of gold, But riches that I must impart Are something not seen but felt: The love for you in my heart. Little Teamstress Frances C. Yost E. All missed Mama, _ but \\y Papa missed her more than any of us. It was painful when we gathered round the table and her place was empty. I believe that is why Papa told me to sit at the foot of the table from then on. Papa always complimented me on my cooking, but I knew that, try as I could, it didn't measure up to Mama's. And, although I tried to, I just couldn't glonfy leftovers, as Mama had. We missed Mama, too, on Sunday. I tried to keep things washed and ironed, and buttons sewed on as Mama had, but most every Sunday something showed up _ needing mending, or something had been hung up instead of put in the clothes hamper, and missed the wash entirely. But we managed, and we were thankful that tiny Susan hadn't had to go off to the city and live with Aunt Erma. We all especially enjoyed little Susan around. She had Page 342 been two years old when Mama died. She was such a ray of sunshine to all of us, because she didn't remember Mama: enough to get homesick for her as the rest of us did. But the time that Papa missed Mama the most was in the evenings. Mama was from the city, and wasn't good at milking cows, but she was good at figures. Papa and Mama had sat together at the table and figured out the farm program. What to plant, and what not to plant, what crop would make the best yield, and what land to summer fallow. Together,- they had talked over whether it would be best to sell the apples as soon as the harvest, or store them until spring when they were scarce, and the price just might be higher. Mama had an intuition when to sell grain, and when to store it awaiting a higher price. Then, sometimes, they had sat together and looked through the wish book. 'That's what we called the mail-order catalogue. We would pick out our clothes for winter. It took a lot of planning to keep us all warm and clothed and fed. Yes, Papa missed Mama the most, and there wasn't anything we could do about it. NE particular evening Papa was sitting at the table with pencil in hand, and I knew he was figuring how to manage the finances. Lael — she's two years younger than I, and the boys, Wilford and Grant, were getting their lessons. Little Wally and Susan were asleep upstairs. I was reading Longfellow's Evangeline. I kept peering over the book and watching Papa. He had that worried frown on his face, and LITTLE TEAMSTRESS he kept glancing at me, too. I found myself wishing I were older, so that he could confide in me. Then a light sort of spread over Papa's face, and I heard him murmur, "But she's just a child herself, and those frisky horses. Yet we better try it." Papa started tapping his pencil and nodded to me. "Maggie, come over here." I put the marker in my book, and turned my chair around so that I was next to Papa at the table. I waited for Papa to speak. "Maggie, there's a new ice-cream parlor opened up in town, and I believe if we started selling sweet cream to be made into ice cream, we could realize quite a lot more, perhaps twice as much from our cream as we do now, selling it sour once a week to the creamery. What do you think?" I knew how much it took to buy groceries and shoes and _ school books. Twice as much money sounded real good to me. It sounded so good, I wanted to shout about it. But Papa was being confidential. He was planning with me as he used to with Mama. I thought of it from all angles. | "It would mean a trip to town every day, wouldn't it, Papa?" "That's the only drawback. We would have to deliver the cream fresh daily. I'm too busy farming to go, and the boys are too small. I wondered if you." "Oh, Papa, I could drive Nell and Tom, honest I could. I've driven to church when you had to go early to Priesthood meeting. I could do Mm, Papa." "Well, I sure wouldn't want anything to happen to you. But I 343 believe if you were to go all alone, not have any little ones to watch. But you would have to promise that you would keep both hands on the reins every minute." "T will, Papa. I promise." Now Papa had that thinking look on his face, and glanced over at Lael. Lael knew how to work. Mama had taught us both. But Lael was. Like some horses, she had to be prodded. I knew what Papa was thinking. If I took the cream to town each day, Lael would have to take charge of things at home. "Let's see, six miles in and six 'miles back. Even if you took a slow gait you ought to be back in two hours." Papa looked across at me and -spoke softly. "Think Lael could manage everything for a couple of hours each day?" "T think so, Papa." O that's how we started selling fresh cream to the ice-cream parlor. Every morning except Sunday I made the trip to town and back. On Sunday we stored the night and moming cream in the cistern, and I took a double batch to town on Monday. I was extra careful on Monday not to have a tipover. Papa had told me not to read on the way, and not to take any friends, and, unless I was to do some shopping, I was to come back as soon as the cream can was emptied. He cautioned me to keep both hands on the reins, and to let the horses know who was boss. It was summer, and the drive to town in the pleasant cool of the morning was a joy. That was two hours of the day the little children weren't saying Maggie this and 344 Maggie that. I started getting up an hour earlier, and Lael and I hurried fast so that the morning work was done before I left. Dinner was planned, and Lael could go ahead with that. I would get back in time for noon dinner, and to help with the clearing up and the dishes. Things worked out real nice, and Papa seemed proud of Lael as a housekeeper and me as a teamstress. Papa had said not to read, or have anyone along. But he hadn't said TI couldn't sing. I did a lot of that. I also said the multiplication tables. I practiced my talks for Sunday School and recitations for socials. But most of all, I daydreamed. I remembered how nice it was when Mama was here, and we had parties in the parlor. I kept wishing we could have a party. I wanted to have the boys and girls my age over, and make a batch of homemade ice cream, and two or three kinds of cakes, as Mama used to do. I wished Papa would warm up his fiddle and play for the party as he used to, and call changes for the square dance. But Papa hadn't played the violin since Mama died. Once I mentioned it to Papa, how I wanted to have a party. We were ordering shoes for Wilfy and Grant out of the catalogue. But Papa's face looked painful, and I knew he was remembering those parties, too. "Sometime, Maggie, but not right now." I had been selling cream quite a few weeks, and things were going along fine. The extra pay for the sweet cream was a real help to us. The ice-cream parlor liked to pay with cash. We didn't have a bank in our little town, and it just worked RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 out best for them, and best for us to have the greenbacks and silver instead of a check. They always put the money in a sealed envelope, and I took it straight home to Papa. One noontime Papa opened the envelope and counted. He looked up startled. He got out his cream statements, and figured up. Then he said aloud, "They have made a mistake. They have given us twenty dollars too much." "Twenty dollars!" 'The boys and Lael shouted. Longingly, I thought aloud, "Oh, Papa I wish we could use that money for a party." APA looked at me so disappointed when I said that, I could have bitten my tongue. There wasn't a dishonest bone in Papa's body, and he didn't like his children even to consider dishonesty. He often told us that Satan was not given the power to tempt little children, but at the age of accountability he could use his power upon us, and that we should be strong and withstand all temptations. Of course I knew that, much as we could use the extra money, I would be taking it back when I made the trip the next morning. "Maggie, you get the boys to help you harness up, and right after dinner you take this twenty dollars back to the ice-cream parlor. They will be short on their books when they settle up this evening." So, in the very hottest part of the day, I had to make an extra trip to town. All the way I kept thinking about what I could do with that twenty dollars in my pocket, and how nice a party would be. Why, with twenty dollars I could have LITTLE TEAMSTRESS "boughten" ice cream, and "boughten" cakes, and cookies, and prizes and I held the reins tightly all the way as Papa had told me, but the tears that fell blinded my vision. THINGS went on about the same as usual the next day or two. - | made the regular trip to town with the cream each morning, while Lael watched the little ones and prepared dinner. Then one afternoon, Lael and Susan and I were sitting out under the trees. Papa had taken the three boys with him to fix fences up in the pasture by the canal. Lael was lying in the hammock just being lazy. Susan was nite with her doll, and I was trying to get Lael to help me with the darning I was doing. Suddenly, a big dust was coming down the road. It could be nothing but a car. Nobody had a car out our way, and not many people had a car in town. But Mr. Cosgriff, owner of the ice-cream parlor, had a car. He used it for deliveries. It was black, but had a big white sign on both sides which read "Cosgriff's Ice Cream," with a picture of a big icecream cone. Imagine how surprised we were when he drove right up to our house and stopped. He got out of his car and picked up a big ice-cream container and walked through the gate. We hadn't ordered any ice cream, that was for sure. "Hello, Maggie." Cosgriff's smile. "Hello, Mr. Cosgriff." I turned to Lael and Susan who were as surprised as I was. "These are my sisters, Mr. Cosgriff, Lael and Susan." "Glad to know you. You've got a good big sister. One to be proud I liked Mr. 345 of. Honest as the day is long." He was looking at me when he said it, and I felt mighty guilty inside. He patted the big ice-cream container and said, "Brought you out some ice cream. Honesty has its rewards. There're five gallons here. Maggie, you can return the container in the morning." "But Papa won't take a reward for being honest. I know he won't." Just then Papa and the boys drove up on the hay wagon. They had seen the dust of the car coming, and had come to see what the commotion was. A car was something to see in those days. "You have a fine girl here, this Maggie." "Yes, Maggie's a fine girl, and I want you to meet the rest of my family." "T've met Lael here, and Susan." "This is Walford, he's eleven, Grant is nine, and Wally is six." "Glad to meet you fellows." Then nodding toward the ice-cream container, "Brought you out some ice cream. I sure did appreciate your catching that mistake the other day." "That's quite all right, and it wasn't necessary." "It means a lot to me. Well, I better get back to the shop. See you in the morning, Maggie." He was gone. APA just looked at the ice-cream container for awhile. Then, as if talking to himself, he said, "It won't keep. Might as well use it up this evening." Then a smile broke on Papa's face and he turned to me, "Maggie, I believe you had better get on the phone and call all vour friends. We'll have that big 346 parlor party you have been wanting." "Oh, Papa!" I rushed over to him and squeezed him hard. "Do you think you girls could make up some cakes this afternoon? We could use two or three kinds. How about an angel food, a chocoRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 late, and a spice cake? And I'll see what I can do about warming up the violin." Lael and I hurried into the house. We had a lot to do. Lael murmured something about honesty having its reward. And I knew that I hadn't been so happy for a long, long time. How to Give a Magazine To Someone Who Is Ill Evelyn Witter WHEN I was sick, many well-meaning friends brought me reading material. And of all the enjoyable periodicals I received, I enjoyed the one Bess Rogers brought me the most of all. The reason for my choice was that Bess "friendshipped" the stories for me with the notes and comments she wrote in the margins. For example: on one of the stories she wrote, ''This story has real good descriptions of faraway places. See if you don't think so, too." On another story she wrote this in the margin: "This one held me in I-couldhardly-breathe suspense. Not good to read before going to sleep!" Then on an article, Bess wrote: "If you want people to like you, and who doesn't — read this!" And so it went all through the magazine — comments and questions and opinions, all neatly written along the margins. It was like having a person-to-person visit with Bess on every page. Of interest seasoning to the reading. Her notes coaxed me to read the magazine and added a dash Now when I want to give something nice to a friend who is ill, I read my Magazine. Then I go through it again and write in my comments. Not until this thorough working over is done, do I give it to the person I have in mind. Friends who have received my notes in the Magazine margins have always thanked me heartily. A thank you note I received just this morning said: ""The notes you made on the margins made the reading extra fun. Thanks!" | Was Thinking Elsie C. Carroll | | was thinking what a blessing it is to be able to think, to remember, to dream. How limited our satisfactions would be if we couldn't recall what happened in the past, if we couldn't contemplate what is happening now, if we couldn't project in imagination what may happen in the future. With immeasurable speed the mind races from experience to experience in recalling the past, from thought to thought in considering, evaluating, or merely facing the present, and from one shining dream to another in peering into the future. I tried this little experiment. I glanced at the clock to note the time. Then I let my mind range where it would for ten minutes. Where did it go? Where didn't it go? In those ten minutes I lived over again, among other experiences, an early Christmas dawn when I could see in the dim light the shiny head of my first china doll peeping out of my hand-knit stocking hanging in front of an old adobe fireplace; a thrilling moment in an old log schoolhouse when my teacher handed me a corrected "'composition" with a beautiful "A" opposite my name; the burial of a pet kitten; a humiliating moment when I received my father's severest punishment for a wrongdoing: his sad eyes looking into mine and his kind voice saying, "Elsie, I didn't think you would do that"; happy days on a farm where I learned to ride horses, milk cows, and piece quilts from innumerable scraps of family dresses and shirts and aprons; wearing one of the prettiest Christmas dresses my mother ever made for me, and going to my first grownup dance; delivering the valedictory in high school commencement exercises; getting ready to go away to college; the supreme moment when I was asked to be the wife — of the boy who began sending me valentines when I was eight years old; our wedding day. Lights and shadows of memory passed swiftly over more than half a century in the brief span of ten minutes. If I had turned my mind to contemplate the present for ten minutes, thoughts would have raced just as swiftly from the problems, anxieties, joys, doubts and fears, satisfactions and hopes, that crowd into our lives each day. And, if I had focused it on the rosy-hued world of ambition, hopes, and dreams, it would have gone sailing away from one tremulous cloud to another, until I would not have known when the ten minutes were up and would have trouble bringing it back to reality, which the poet Browning calls ""The C Major of Life." Truly, one of the great blessings we are given with our lives is the power to remember, to contemplate, to dream. Page 347 Dare to Be Ditferent Mabel Law Atkinson time with the rhythm of old Bell's hoofs, as dear, familiar scenes glided by as she sat beside her father in the one-horse buggy on her way to the train that was to take her away to the first big adventure of her life. Every once in awhile she looked through the little window in the back of the buggv to see if her new brown tin trunk was still securely tied on. A small brown pasteboard suitcase, also new, was between her feet and the dashboard in front. Her first suitcase and her first trunk that spoke of her first real journey away from home. She was daydreaming of attending church the next morning in a faraway country town, and of beginning her teaching in a two-room country school the Monday following. Seventy-five dollars a month was to be her salary! Seventy-five dollars! And her first year of teaching! Why, at home she could only have received fifty dollars, and she would only be about eighty miles away! Eighty miles! Suddenly the distance seemed far, but she smiled resolutely as she mused, and I'll be home for Christmas! What presents I shall bring! Her Father's voice interrupted her thoughts, "My girl, I'm not one for preaching, as you know, but there are a few things I would sav to you by way of counsel: You know our Church standards. You may meet and mingle with people who do not live these standards. Dare to be different should the occasion demand. Page 348 Gin _Olney's thoughts kept Live as vou know, my dear. You've been a good girl, Sara, and I have full confidence in you. I trust you to do the nght thing always." "Yes, Papa. I'm glad you have faith in me. But the community is a Latter-day Saint one. Mrs. Daugherty, where I shall board, is a good Church worker, the trustee told me. So I don't think I shall have anv hard decisions to make." "Perhaps not, my girl, but take vour old father's advice in case you do." "Oh, I will, Papa. I've alwavs felt that what vou said was right, you and Mama both." A half hour later when her trunk had been checked and she was cartying her suitcase ready to get on the train, she kissed her father goodbve, and said, laughingly, "Smile, Papa! Don't look so serious. I'll be home again you know, and I'll write each week, I promise. Don't worry, Papa." "Tm not really worrying, for I think I know my girl. But the fact that my oldest child is leaving home makes me a little sad. But I wouldn't hold you. Fledglings must leave the nest." "Yes, Papa, and you and Mama have given this fledgling strong wings, so let vour eves twinkle before I leave." "All aboard!' sounded, and with a quick kiss, Sara walked up the train steps, found a seat, and waved through the window at her father. He watched the train until it was out of sight then began his journey DARE TO BE DIFFERENT homeward. A time or two tears filled his eyes and he murmured, "Our little Sara! Time has sped too fast." "Strange how one child going leaves such an emptiness even when we have seven more," Mr. Olney said to his wife that evening. "Not strange, Papa, for the heart that has expanded to make room for each one does not shrink. I just hope I have done all I should to make her strong enough to know and choose the right." "You have, Mama. I've often wondered at your ability to teach the principles of the gospel and the truths of life in simplicity as you have done from the time the children were infants. You haven't failed in any little way. I only hope I have done my part as well. Sara is a good girl, but she's going out into the world, and the world isn't home." "Sara will be all nght, Papa, I feel 'sure. But she may not spend wisely, not for a time. Why, I think I might even spend foolishly myself, if suddenly I found I had seventyfive dollars a month. But she'll pav her tithing, first of all, as she always has, so she'll come out all nght." "Yes, but she's so young and innocent and doesn't think Latter-day Saints would ever do wrong." ARA'S first letter was reassuring. It was filled with her joyous experiences of teaching her sixteen pupils in the first four grades, and of her good times with the folks she had met at Church and Mutual. She went on to say: Really, Papa, you don't need to worry. I'm recalling what you said to me as we drove to the train together. There's no 389 occasion at all, no need to dare to be different here, for the people I have met live their standards as we do. I've been in several of their homes and the gospel is lived, Papa. Her next letter eased their worries still more. Her parents read it eagerly, hurriedly, and reread parts of it over and over: I am now a teacher in the Sunday School and in Mutual as well. A small ward requires some people to hold more than one office. 'The young people are friendly and clean living. I was quite attracted to a young man who works for the bishop. He walked me home from Mutual last night. But, today, Mrs. Daugherty told me he is not a member of the Church, just a transient whom the bishop hired for the fall work. So I shall not go places with him. I feel certain he will ask me to go to the harvest dance next week, but I will decline sincerely and politely and tactfully, I hope. Some day he may join, who knows...? You see, I do remember your counsel, Papa. Remember when I began dating with Jed not knowing he was a non-Mormon? But you found out, Papa. It seems but yesterday, instead of a year ago, when I was sitting on your knee and hearing you say, "If you never go with nonmembers, you will never marry out of the Church." Then, how wise you were, for you continued, "I just wanted to let you know how I feel, now the decision is up to you." Of course, I stopped dating Jed. How could a daughter do otherwise with a father like you? UT it wasn't more than two weeks after Sara had written the letter that she had a different and startling experience. It was Saturday, and she had been invited to eat dinner, as the noon meal was called, at the home of two of her pupils. The family had the threshers, and the working men and the family ate together at one long table. To her surprise, she found her cup, along with those at the places of most of 350 the adults, was filled with coffee. When she did not drink it, the man across the table from her, a Mr. Watson, a member of the Church and a trustee on the school board, a middle-aged man with a large family, looked squarely into her eyes as he raised his cup and challenged, "T dare you!" Sara, who had never been afraid to accept a dare — in the right direction — said, "But I have never drunk tea or coffee in all my nineteen years. It was never served in my home. I'd rather not." "Come, be a sport," he urged her, "just this once." Again he lifted his cup, looked directly and compellingly at her. She met his gaze steadily for a long moment, lifted her cup from the table, held it for a few long seconds, then set it down and said, "I cannot." "You won't take a dare!" the challenger's voice was loud enough to carry throughout the house. Slowly and calmly Sara answered, "I would be a coward and a traitor to what I know is nght if I drank that coffee. I shall keep my record clean." You could have heard a pin drop in the silence that followed. Then Mr. Watson spoke, "I admire you for your dedication to the teachings of your parents and the Church. Would I had remained likewise true, for I was taught the same as you. I hesitate to think what my sainted mother in heaven must think — if she knows. Thank you, my dear, for daring to do right." At the supper table in the Olney home the next week, the entire family listened attentively as their time, and it has been so much fun! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 mother read Sara's letter aloud. She had read it to herself over and over in the afternoon. In it Sara gave a detailed account of the incident and expressed her appreciation for her family and the way of life she had been taught, both by precept and example. ITH the letter had come a check for thirty-five dollars. Stapled to it, was a note which read: I've planned this for a long Each month you will receive the same to. Help out a bit. You will need it, with Linda in college this year.... Yes, I'll have plenty without it. My board and room cost me twenty dollars a month, which leaves me twenty dollars for clothes and other things I desire. Just my _ little "thank you," and I want to do it. Surprise! Mama stopped reading and the children cheered, "Hurrah for Sara!" Linda's eyes were shining. "IT haven't read the P. S. Yet." Mama was beaming with happiness as she did so: I almost left out the very best part: I saw Mrs. Watson in the store yesterday. She was so happy she cried as she thanked me. She told me her husband had come home Saturday evening and said, "Throw out the tea and coffee, Martha. It will not be served in our home again." So you see, Papa and Mama, the wavelets from the stone of truth you have cast upon the waters for your family have reached outward into the stream of life for others. "How beautiful, Papa!" There was awe in Mama's voice "So you see, my dear, we needn't worry about Sara." Papa's eyes were lighted by an inward glow as he said, "Sara is a good daughter." For Mother's Day Dorothy J. Roberts ete ete Het ee te ae te ae fe le ae te ae et $ When I see a rose of red, I think of you, 4, Or when I see an apron, starched and new, "* Or a perfectly proportioned loaf of bread, - A snowy tablecloth, a blessing said, és. I think of childhood and the years between, 2. You, love-bent there among the summer's green. $e When I think of virtue, a woman's fame, > Then I recall your hands, your face, your name. Pe le le he ie ie ip ee he Se ae he ee ea Se ee Gh a he The Reward of a Thing Well Done Caroline Eyring Miner l remember a motto that once appeared on our school bulletin, which said, "The reward of a thing well done is to have done it." I do not know who wrote it, but I do know that I believe it. If you have made a tasty cake, you know it, and no one needs to tell you, for you sense the joy in the accomplishment and your knowledge of it. If you have typed a paper perfectly, the reward for you is in the knowledge of that fact and the satisfaction of work well done. A seamstress glories in the beautiful garment she has made; the teacher in the growth and accomplishment of her class members. The little pin or the word of commendation or the certificate is pleasant enough to receive, but the real reward for achievement is in the joy of knowing one has been adequate to the challenge placed before him. As this is true in little accomplishments, it is true in life itself. The greatest reward we will have in the celestial kingdom will be the knowledge within ourselves that we have kept the commandments, that we have kept the faith. And I think our condemnation and eternal sorrow, on the other hand, may well be the knowledge within ourselves that we failed to do the things we knew to be right. There is no joy in receiving unearmed praise. It has a false ring, and it cannot make up for the inner dissatisfaction a person has within himself when he has performed below his capacity. He can't be fooled. Parents and teachers should very early teach young people to do their tasks thoroughly and beautifully that they may know throughout their lives that the reward for achievement is in the fact of worthy achievement itself. Page 351 My Mother's Hands Esther H. Lamb ONIGHT,, after a trip of eight hundred miles, I am with my mother here in the house of my birth in which she is beginning her ninety-fifth year of wholesome living. From the comfort of her little rawhide-bottomed rocker, she received me with glad eyes and a smile of love. Her hands which must now content themselves with resting tidily in her lap are dearly familiar and _ work blessed. Her hands! They serve as a magic lens to bring to the screen of my memory vivid pictures of yesteryear. 'They alone have power to wind backward the film of life and make me ten years old again. All home with me are my brothers and sisters. It is Saturday evening. Snowflakes are pushing against our lace-curtained windowpanes in an effort to tuck us in protectively from the wind's cold breath. Our large, pleasant home has been cleaned with special care for the Sabbath day. The smell of Sunday's dinner, already prepared, is tantalizing, even though we have eaten supper and are relaxed cozily for a few last minutes before we go to our cold bedrooms to snuggle under mother's homemade quilts. We listen soberly to another chapter from Church history, read aloud by our father. Then, with some squirmings and attempted evasions, we submit to his attempts to check on our behavior of the day. As though he does not know! Page 352 The happiest moments come when he expresses pride in us and with stern kindness suggests ways of improvement. We draw closer to him as he takes the youngest of us on his lap, and with his stockinged feet tapping in accent, he sings for us songs of repetitious melody, coupled to lyrics many verses long, stories of delight or tragedy. Our mother's hands are busy, moving deftly as when she kneaded bread early in the morming. She kneels near the newspaper-protected hearth beside a long row of washed, high-topped shoes. We are proud owners of one pair each, and for Sunday meetings they must shine as shoes never shone before. Being mistress of this act, mother uses a curved-handled brush equipped with a pompon of bristles on one side. 'This she dips into spicy vinegar, then touches it lightly to the soot that clings in black flakes to the chimney throat, and applies it to each shoe. Now, with swift strokes from the opposite side of the brush, our shoes are shined to mirror smoothness. Though we know nothing about Who's Who in polttics, this vinegar and soot treatment is spoken of as Democratic Shoe ~ Blacking. I watch as mother places in the top of each pair of shoes, long, black, wool stockings her nimble fingers have knitted. Then, stitch upon stitch, with fascinating speed, she manipulated the shining needles that whispered in soothing rhythm. MY MOTHER'S HANDS The fre burns low. Our grotesque shadows on the wall blend with the night.... We are secure in this peaceful home. My evening in memory is finished. The film rolls forward identifying yesteryear with the present. Mother raises her hands to touch my cheek. Hands that have grown strong, then 353 old, from the tasks of pioneer days to this electronic age. Yet they must accept one more task — to lie patiently as she looks at her unused workbasket beside her chair, and wait. My mother's hands — in them God placed his most beautiful tool, service. O> Mine for Keeps Ida Elaine James Two portable blossoms Sprang up in my yard — Two brightly ginghamed children Looking at me hard. I went on with my raking, Gave them a casual smile; One fumbled in her pocket - A little while For a gaudy egg she had colored, Held it close to me. Praisefully 1 nodded: "Pretty as can be." Leaned nearer just to please her — "Why, it's the very blue Of your pretty little apron; Is it new?" The egg slipped in my pocket — They hippety-hopped on air. It was then I stopped my raking, To say an Easter prayer. Patio Breakfasts for Summertime Linnie Fisher Robinson Menu I Pancakes With Pineapple or Strawberry Sauce — Sausage or Ham Milk or Chocolate PANCAKES 2 ¢. Flour 1 c. Butter or margerine 6 tbsp. Sugar (or less, as desired) pinch of salt 1 c. Light cream or evaporated milk 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 eggs (or fewer, if shortening is reduced ) water, if needed Combine salt, sugar, and baking powder with the flour. Add butter and eggs and beat until smooth. Add cream, and a little water, if the batter is not thin enough to spread out for cooking. Cook about 3 tbsp. Of batter in large pan, skillet, or griddle. Use only a small amount of butter to grease pan. Cook on medium heat until golden brown. 'Turn and cook the other side. If you are cooking for a large crowd, have more cooks and serve as you cook. As soon as the pancakes are done, spread with fruit filling and serve topped with whipped cream. PINEAPPLE FILLING Make your favorite cream filling. When cold, add crushed pineapple (drained as you do for cream pie) and spread between pancakes. Top with sweetened whipped cream. STRAWBERRY FILLING 8 c. Fresh strawberries 3 tbsp. Butter 2 OF 3 c. Sugar (to taste) 3 drops red food coloring, 1 C. Water if desired Y, c. Cornstarch mixed with water Wash, drain, and hull the berries. Sort out the finest and set aside for topping. (I usually set aside half of them.) Crush or mash the other half, add water and sugar, and bring to a boil. Add cornstarch mixed in a little water and thicken. Add butter and red food coloring, if color is not as bright as the other berries. When almost cool, add the remaining berries and spoon onto the pancakes. Top with cream and serve. Recipe serves 15 to 18. Menu II Molded Chicken in Gelatine Hot Baked Green Beans Frozen Orange Soda MOLDED CHICKEN IN GELATINE cooked, cubed meat from one large 1 bunch (more or less as desired) chicken | green onions minced fine 4 c. Stock (You cannot get this much 11 c. Celery cubed fine stock from one chicken and have it 1 c. Small peas (sifted, canned peas) taste good, so if you haven't more 1 small can or jar pimento, sliced stock on hand, make some from _ salt and pepper to taste chicken bouillon cubes.) salad dressing, to taste 4 envelopes gelatine (unsweetened and whipping cream, as desired unflavored ) Page 356 SURFSIDE LUNCHEON THEME 359 Turn into greased shells and place shells on a cooky sheet. Bake in a very hot oven fifteen minutes or until bubbly hot and golden crusted. Remove from oven and serve immediately. THE DOMINO EFFECT Celia Larsen Luce A® a child I used to set the dominoes carefully on end in a straight row. Then, when I tipped over the end one, all the rest would fall, too. Now that I am grown, I watch another domino effect. If I start the day with a frown and a grumpy feeling, soon everyone around me is growling, too. If I put on a smile, whether I feel like smiling or not, soon there are smiles around me. Since my moods have this domino effect, I had better try to make it a good effect. ~ — «ee woe RAS Rhubarb Recipes Grace V. Price RHUBARB CAKE c. Shortening 2 c. Sifted flour c. Brown sugar 1% c. Cut raw rhubarb beaten egg ' ¢. White sugar - c. Buttermilk 1 tsp. Cinnamon tsp. Soda Cream together shortening and brown sugar. Add beaten egg. Add alternately buttermilk, soda, and flour. Fold shubarb in lightly. Spread in greased and floured pan. Sprinkle top with white sugar anc cinnamon. Bake at 350° for 30 to 35 minutes. RHUBARB CRUMBLE c. Cut fresh rhubarb % ¢. Flour c. Sugar 1 c. Quick oats c. Flour 44 c. Margarine or butter tsp. Salt "2 tsp. Salt tsp. Cinnamon 3 tbsp. Water c. Brown sugar Mix together rhubarb, sugar, flour, and salt. Place in buttered baking dish. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Mix separately brown sugar, flour, oats, butter, and salt. Pour over rhubarb mixture as a topping. Sprinkle with wate:. Bake at 350° for about 40 minutes. Serve warm or cold, plain, or with sour cream, whipped cream, ice cream, or cheese. - 1% Y, V, 2% RHUBARB TAPIOCA c. Sugar 2% ¢c. Water c. Minute tapioca 3 drops red color, if desired tsp. Salt 1 c. Crushed pineapple c. Cut raw rhubarb Combine sugar, tapioca, salt, rhubarb, water, and coloring. Cook over medium heat stirring constantly until full boil. Cool. To avoid crusting over stir occasionally during cooling. Add pineapple. Chill and serve. Page 360 RHUBARB RECIPES 361 PALE PINK BUT BRIGHT (Other Uses for Rhubarb) BREAKFAST DRINK To one quart of rhubarb juice (home canned stewed rhubarb juice, strained or blended, sweetened as desired) add juice of one or two oranges, or one pint of pineapple juice, or both. Chill and serve. Party PuNcH Use as above, adding one bottle of your favorite lemon-lime beverage and three or four drops of red coloring. Garnish with orange slices or strawberries. A sprinkle of strawberry or raspberry punch powder is good instead of coloring. Toprins FOR IcE CREAM OR PLAIN CAKE 4% c. Cut raw rhubarb 1 pkg. Strawberry gelatine 4 c. Sugar Simmer together rhubarb and sugar. Add and dissolve gelatine. Keep covered and cool for serving. (May be sealed in bottles while hot.) Party Christie Lund Coles Small girl, just four, (and a half year over) Dainty and sweet As rain-fresh clover; Nodding and smiling, Inviting me To your small table To taste, to see; Telling me news Of your doll land: Suzie has measles, You can't understand Where Mary has gone? (She's by the door.) Such a lovely party, Child, half-past four. A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 363 Patchwork Apron and Pot Holder | BeRE is an economical pattern as welcome at the bridal shower as in your own kitchen. It is a good idea for using your bright new scraps, too. | WHAT YOU NEED: i 49 patches, each 34" square, of printed cotton, as varied as possible. 1 yard of plain colored cotton broadcloth. 2 squares of flannelette, each 6/4" by 6%". Thread to match the cotton broadcloth. Some six-strand embroidery floss in various colors. TO MAKE APRON: Allow '4" seams. 1. Sew 45 patches together in 10 strips, as shown in Figure 1. The broken line icates the stitching line for the border and waistband. 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 iil: a lpateh " 2- ~3patches 7 Ly eee) 3-5 Z AIG) 7 4 te 5-6 " ra ote: C 6-6 7 4 a. A" 7-6 " < 7 Sn ~ 8-6 _: a © 9-4 uo i. « 10-2 « Figure 1 right side Gamma bo a @ Figure 2 2. From broadcloth, cut 2 border strips 3" by 13/2", 1 border strip 3" by 35%", a waistband 3" by 18", 2 ties 32" by 35", and a lining to fit the bordered patch section. 3. Sew the short border strips to the short edges of patched section, the long strip to one long edge as shown in Figure 2. Trim off extending points of patches and press the border out flat. 4. Using three strands of floss, stitch along each seam of the patches with varied embroidery stitches in colors to contrast with patches. Use the blanket stitch, lazy daisy, or whatever you desire. 'To make apron really lovely, you can highlight the print in the patterns by embroidering the flowers that are in the pieces, or even sew sequins or other fancy things on the designs. 5- With right sides together, stitch the lining and the patched piece together around the three plain-colored edges. 'Turn right side out and press. On the raw edge, run two lines of gathering stitches across the top, catching lining as well as patched front. Trim off the points of the patches. 6. Make a narrow machine hem on the long edges of the ties. Fold and stitch one end, turn to the right side to form a point. Pleat the other end down to 1". Baste. 7. Fold waistband in half lengthwise. Slip tie ends between ends, raw edges even. Stitch and turn to right side. 8. Pin right side of waistband to right side of apron, ends and centers matching. Pull up gathering threads to fit waistband. Distribute the gathers evenly. Baste and stitch. Turn in raw edge of waistband, slipstitch over seam on the wrong side A SONG OF THE SEWING MACHINE 365 TO MAKE POTHOLDER: 1. Sew 4 patches together to form a square. Press seams open. 2. Cut matching square from broadcloth. Lay on top of each other the squares of broadcloth, the 2 flannelette squares, and the patches right side up. Stitch all together along the seams of the patches. Cover patch seams with embroidery stitches.. From broadcloth cut a bias strip 1%" by 36". Turn the edges over ¥%," and press. Stitch all around the edges of the potholder for a binding.. To make a loop, cut a 6" length of bias. Fold it in half lengthwise. Stitch the edges together. Fold in half crosswise to form a loop. 'Tack ends of loop to corner of potholder, with loop pointed in toward center, stitch securely. Gracious Living Celia Luce \, JE continually read in advertisements, buy this or that for gracious living. What we seem to forget is that gracious living is the kind of living done by gracious people. It is not something to be bought or built or secured by keeping up with anyone. Gracious living comes only when we develop consideration, order, and the knack of spreading happiness. Things do not bring gracious living. People do. Mind Cleaning Nancy M. Armstrong 2) SING housecleaning, we remove everything from closets and drawers, returning only those articles which still have value. The useless, we discard. Just so can we clean the mind, keeping the good, the beautiful, the optimistic, and the useful thoughts, and disearding the bad, the ugly, the pessimistic, and the useless. In our homes, we entertain whom we choose. In our minds, we entertain what we choose. Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 5 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh lives in a small house in the Malibu Mountains of Callifornia. 'The house is owned by 'Tomas Novarro, a sad and morose man of great wealth, who brings his motherless son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Nina agrees to look after the boy temporarily. Tommy Benedict. « young boy from an unhappy home, visits Nina at times. She tries to help him into a better life adjustment. At the request of 'Tomas Novarro, Dr. Craig Jonathan comes to check up on Joseph's health. Joseph shows gradual, but consistent improvement, and Nina feels a deep satisfaction. Dr. Jonathan continues to call and becomes interested in Nina. { OMAS Novarro came home T on one of the hottest September days in California history. Nina, unaware of his artival, had taken small Joseph and 'Tommy to the beach. Joseph had come to love the sea with a small boy's passion for sound and motion. Nina had to watch him every second or he would have been out beyond his depth. She could not understand this heedlessness of danger in one who once trembled at the sound of running water. Joseph had come a long way. He was really talking now, sometimes long furious sentences that were not always clear — but he was talking. Nina leaned back on the beach towel on her elbows and watched his slight form skimmering into the surf. He looked back to her and waved, and Tommy, beside him, Page 366 gave her a reassuring gesture of the hand. Nina waved and then flopped over on her stomach still watching. A great peace filled her, a sense of having had a hand in a momentous creation. Or an isolated, rare experience. What could compare to this that she had witnessed, the opening of a mind, the breaking of a barrier, the thready beginning, the communication of one human being to his immediate world. It had been verv good. Joseph unloosed himself from Tommy's hand and, clutching his bucket, ran up from the ocean. "I found " he shouted, "I found a whale!" Nina peered at the captive sea horse. "Well, not quite a whale, Joseph, but it's a sea horse and they're strictly wonderful." Joseph was charmed. "Sea horse... Sea horse." Nina kissed his bright, soft hair. He flung his arms about her. "It's for you, my present." He fished the sea horse out and laid its clammy coldness in her palm. Tommy trotted up to fling himself down beside them. "It's hot even down here, wish I had brought my board." "You've had a lot of fun with it, haven't you?" "Yeah, all the fellows have. We're going on a beach cookout next Friday, all the fellows." He poured sand SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES through his fingers. "I like Mutual, all but the religious part." "Why don't you like that?" "Oh my brother says it's all a lot of stuff." He dropped the sand and looked into her face. "I get so tired of thinking and wondering about things. How come you're so sure there's a God? Lots. Of people say there isn't one, and they're smarter than you even." Nina swallowed. 'Tommy's bluntness took a little getting used to. "Tm just sure, that's all." "Even my schoolteacher says there isn't one, and he's been to Russia and everywhere and he_ knows things.", Nina sat up. "If you wanted to know if somebody lived in a house, what would you do, Tommy?" He considered, stretching _ his young bones gladly on the sand. "I guess I'd go up and knock. If somebody lived there I guess they'd come to the door." "Prayer is knocking," Nina said. "Prayer!" "Swim!" insisted Joseph, turning to the sea. "No, not now. Let's have cook- »? Ies." She passed them around. OMMY ate in silence for a long time. Nina was beginning to think he had left the topic and gone on to other things, but he turned to her suddenly. "You've knocked, or you wouldn't know about knock- >> "Yes." He looked at her critically. "All right, then why do you have so much trouble, if you know he's there? Other people have lots more 367 of other things than you, a real lot more." "If you have him," Nina said, "you don't need lots of things. You don't need lots. Of pleasures. You can even take a good, long siege of trouble, because knowing he's there gives everything a reason... You see?" He looked at her angrily. "You're different. He wouldn't come. For just anybody." Nina wiped her hands on the towel. "Tommy, don't ask me about these things. Go find out for yourself, if you really want to know, if you're willing to know that he lives." He was instantly suspicious. "What do you mean. Willing?" "There's an obligation in knowing,' she said. Tommy was truculent. "I'm going body surfing... You watch Joseph for awhile." Nina watched him make his way to the sea. She was disturbed. I did it badly, she thought. I was overanxious. I sound harsh and I mean to be tender. Joseph, on a mischievous impulse, poured sand in the cookie box. Nina, catching him at it, gave him a resounding smack on his posterior. "So this is how you treat my son?" She whirled. 'Tomas Novarro stood above her, a furious scowl on his dark face. Nina wanted to sit back and wail loudly. She had pictured all sorts of tender scenes when 'Tomas came home. She glared back at Tomas with blue blazing eyes. "Well if he's going to behave this way, he deserves to be spanked." 368 "So," said Tomas and sank down to the sand and held his arms out to the boy. "She is cruel to you, I hear." Joseph, bellowing like a young bull, flung himself into Nina's arms for comfort. "Very well," said Nina with a firm voice, "but if you do it again, Joseph, you will get another one." "T am very good," Joseph insisted. He sniffed and wiped his eyes with the back of his hands. He smiled a little at 'Tomas. "Come here, boy." 'Tomas pulled a package from his pocket: "I brought you a present." It was a silver whistle. Joseph was charmed. He settled himself on his father's knees and made the air about him painfully shmill. TOMAS looked at Nina. "Doctor Jonathan is right, my son is getting well." "He certainly is." Nina was immensely proud. She drew Joseph to her. Now she wanted to show him off. She wanted him to catch the ball, which he would not; to talk, which he would not. Joseph would only toot the little silver whistle. Novarro threw back his head and laughed. It was a joyous sound. "He is like me, stubborn. Every Novarro is stubborn." He picked the boy up in his arms and held him, nuzzling him while the boy bellowed, suddenly afraid. "He isn't used to." She had almost said strangers. She hastily amended it to "people." "He'll be all right after awhile." "Of course he will!" Novarro swung the boy to his shoulder. "Come along, little pig... There RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 is an ice-cream man down the beach. I passed him." They went away from her. Nina sat back on her heels. She was very tired. She was alone, as she had never been alone before. She was afraid, as she had never been afraid before. After her father had died, there had been Danny, but when Danny had gone, there was no one. Now in the darkness of this moment she grieved toward Danny, willing him to return at this time of her need, but common sense told her that Danny had gone completely and irrevocably away. His letters were brief, impatient notes, at longer and longer intervals. He was caught up in the business of becoming a doctor, in his love for the girl he had found, in the charm of her large and joyous family. Nina sensed that he shrank from the memory of the long and lonely years with her, that he felt his boyhood had been a thwarted, orphan thing. Now that she knew the pain of losing the people she loved, she shrank from entering again into the painful places, the nostalgic memories, the silence where once there had been a quick, demanding voice, the adjustment within herself to the firmly closed door. Panic seized her. She half rose. She would not let them take Joseph away from her. This was different. The child needed her. Hadn't she stayed up night after night with him to help him overcome his fear of the dark? Hadn't she taught him, hour after hour, with little games and songs and poems to talk, to count, to sing, to communicate? She had taught him tenderness with the small white kitten that had SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES grown into the great self-sufficient cat. Joseph was hers, peculiarly so. She had brought him into life as surely as his mother had done. Away from her, he might revert to the silence and the fear-walled withdrawal. Nina stumbled to her feet and ran in the direction 'Tomas had taken with his son. She did not notice when the waves came up and washed her running feet. She fled like the wind among gulls and scattering children, crying aloud for Joseph. She came on them suddenly, around a bend, the man and the boy, sitting on the rocks absorbed in the busy scurrying of a sandpiper. "Joseph!" She flung herself beside the child, encircled him, leaned her face against his warm, soft shoulder. The small boy submitted gladly to her fierce embrace. "I love you, Mamma Nina. Don't cry." She was afraid to lift her head. She could not bear to have 'Tomas Novarro see her tears. He would be impatient and scornful. She tried to wipe her face surreptitiously, but Tomas thrust his handkerchief into her hand. "My bank tells me I am a very rich man now," he said, "and it is true that I have been able to buy many things but never tears that are shed in love." He rose abruptly and walked away down the beach. After awhile Joseph became impatient. "Somebody will eat our cookies. Let's go back." Tommy had taken his fins and gone home, but Tomas waited for them beside the beach towel. "It's time to go," Nina said. 369 They worked together in silence, folding the beach towels, packing away the sun tan lotion and the cookies and thermos bottle. Nina took Joseph's hand, and the three of them plodded across the sand and climbed the palisade where the car was parked. She had wondered if 'Tomas would take Joseph now. But he helped Joseph into her battered car. Nina sighed with relief. She clambered quickly under the wheel, feeling her spirits rise. OMAS came around to her side and leaned on the car door. "When I was a child," he said, "my world collapsed. My father and my mother quarreled frightfully and often. I overheard my mother's cries of anguish. She blamed my father because they must sell so much of the land. I began to imagine things... Dreadful things... -Lhere was no one to assure me. 'The day came when I could endure it no longer. I had a boat." His eves smiled down into hers. "It was a very small boat, as I see it now, but then it looked as large to me as an ocean liner. It had a sail, and I decided to cast off and head for." He shrugged. His eyes twinkled. "There are no islands to compare with those in a_ boy's mind,' he said. "On my way to China I stopped at my grandmothers house, where you live now, to tell her goodbye." He laughed in remembrance. "Not to tell her I was running away." He looked rueful. "I didn't need to tell her. She knew. She knew because she loved me, and though she said little in words, interiorly we conversed." 370 Nina looked up in surprise, but he was looking past her to the sea. She studied his face. It was difficult to imagine this great granite man as a boy, troubled and 'lost. "Interiorly we conversed," he went on, a curious gentleness in his voice. "My grandmother's love spoke to me of peace and patience and the need for faith. It was because she was those things that she could plead without words. She made a supper for me, and we ate together and afterwards I went back. I put aside the islands." Nina gripped the wheel. What was it he was trying to tell her? What did he intend this story to do to her? He rubbed his harsh jaw with his fingertips. "When I saw that no amount of money could help Joseph, when I saw the wisdom of the learned fall in defeat, I remembered my grandmother and that evening." Nina was dismayed. It was so easy to dislike people with a quick inward self-righteousness, and then they betrayed you by being suddenIv better than you, or stronger, or wiser. She had had contempt for Tomas Navarro, and all the time he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 had been searching for a way for his son. She said, "I feel very humble that you should have trusted me. I didn't know." He put his hand over hers. "When I read about you in the paper, I thought, what kind of woman is this, who would come to the defense of a child?" "You did?" She felt healed. "T thought everyone who read the article would think me a fool." "No." He moved his hand to the head of Joseph, who had dropped off to sleep. "I was already thinking about talking to vou when I met you on my own land... That dav, when you were lost." She took a deep breath. "And now?" He looked from her to the sleeping child. "Doctor Jonathan tells me I must not take him away at once, that the three of us must be friends for a time, until I have won Joseph to me." He stood back. "T cannot thank you with money, Miss Karsh, but I give you my grandmother's house. She will approve of that." (To be concluded) > Wait for Me, Sun Mabel Jones Gabbott The bluest of skies hangs overhead, An inverted bowl with not even a chip: The day awaits: unwritten, unread. This length of hours too soon will slip Into tomorrow. Wait for me, sun, While I put in my pocket a bit of song, And love enough for everyone, With a sparkle of humor to go along Into each hour, for I shall live This day but once. I have much to give. | Rachel Kirkham Wanlass Makes Unique Gifts for MIA Girls Py SCHEL Kirkham Wanlass, Monroe, Utah, makes exquisite gifts for MIA girls. Each girl in the community, as she enters Mutual, is presented with a lovely knitted doilie. Some of the young men also receive doilies to keep for their future homes, and the missionaries are remembered with these lovely gifts. Many homes in Monroe are adorned with handwork made by Mrs. Wanlass. She has knitted more than 850 doilies. Also, in many homes, the draperies are decorated with an exquisite crocheted snowflake made by Mrs. Wanlass. Her other hobbies are numerous and varied. She has knitted several bedspreads in skilled sculptured patterns, and she has knitted the lace for hundreds of pairs of pillowcases. Her handwork has won twenty-seven blue ribbons and many other awards in Sevier County fairs. She loves flowers and her home is made cheerful and inviting by many house plants. Mrs. Wanlass has spent all the years of her womanhood in Relief Society work and in making people happy. She has been a visiting teacher for fifty-three years and is still making her visits regularly and faithfully. She is the last to leave the work meetings and is noted as an expert quilter. Six of her eight children are still living, and she is a devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Page 3/1 Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 NCE, again the General Board takes opportunity to express its gratitude and appreciation to the dedicated and devoted women who have been instrumental in placing The Relief Society Magazine in so many of our Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world, and also in the homes of other lovely women who appreciate the good and beautiful in life. Especially do we express appreciation to the Magazine representatives in stakes and wards, missions and branches, for their zealous and untiring efforts, and to the Relief Society presidencies and other officers and teachers who have given their loyal support and encouragement. Surely the Lord is pleased with his faithful daughters who have so diligently magnified their calling. Thanks must also be expressed to our thousands of sisters who subscribe to the Magazine, thereby evidencing their appreciation of Relief Society itself, and of the Magazine, the "voice" of Relief Society which brings so much knowledge and pleasure, beauty and spirituality into our lives. In expressing appreciation, we must not forget the many gift subscriptions so thoughtfully and generously provided the General Board for distribution to the missions of the Church by individual sisters and by stake, ward, and branch organizations. Sisters, we thank you Page 372 for these subscriptions. We are sure you will feel well repaid for your generosity and kindness in the knowledge that many hearts have been touched by the messages and inspiration contained in the Magazine, and that a number of conver-: sions to the gospel have resulted. You will be happy to know that the total number of Magazine subscriptions in 1961 was 183,236, compared with 171,002 in 1960, for an increase of 12,234. 'There were 303 stakes on the Honor Roll, an increase of nineteen over the 1960 total of 284. The mean of all the stakes was ninety-three per cent, which is an increase of one per cent over 1960. The highest stake was again the South Los Angeles, for the fifteenth consecutive year, with a percentage of 226. It also had the largest number of subscriptions, with a total of 1,641. Of the ten highest stakes, the first four places were taken by stakes in California. Others in the top ten included one stake in Arizona, two in Idaho, one in Canada, one in Nevada, and one in Utah. There were also 2,344 wards and 61 branches in the stakes on the Honor Roll. In forty-one stakes all of the wards achieved one hundred per cent or over. In 1961 there were 24 missions on the Honor Roll, an increase of four over 1960. Three of these are new MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 missions and are to be congratulated for doing so well. Highest honor goes to the British Mission with 143 per cent. Second is the Western States Mission, with 129 per cent; third, the Canadian Mission, with 124 per cent; and fourth, the North Central States Mission, with 111 per cent. In total number of subscriptions the Western States led with 1,075. The mean of the missions on the Honor Roll rose to ninety-five per cent, for an increase of three per cent over 1960. 373 Sisters, we rejoice with you over these outstanding achievements in Magazine subscriptions. They represent many hours of effort by thousands of Magazine representatives throughout the Church, and they are a reflection of loving and devoted SEIVICE. Relief Society women the world over are grateful for our Relief Society Magazine, with its beautiful covers and its many pages filled with beauty, culture, refinement, knowledge, faith, inspiration, and love. Honors for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 226% Magazine Representative — Amelia Dellenbach Ward Gila Bend Branch, Phoenix Stake (Arizona) 450% Magazine Representative — Cleora Colvin Mission British Mission — 143% Mission Magazine Representative — Beulah B. Woodbury Mission District West Nebraska District, Western States Mission — 174% Magazine Representative — Irma M. Chandler Mission Branch Roanoke Rapids Branch — 340% Raleigh District, Central Atlantic States Mission Magazine Representative — Joyce E. Phillips 374 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles Huntington Park Inglewood Glendale Phoenix Burley Rexburg - -.2---2.--20c2-cceeeeeeceeceeeeeeeeeeeneseeeeeeeees Edmonton Las VeQas ---c---cc-eeccceeeceescereecereecceeeeeceteeeeeees Box Elder - 22222222.22-.22-:-22ec-2eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees Oe ee eee Missions Achieving Ten Amelia Dellenbach Rachel Liston Janet C. Medina Mildred Robison Alva L. Knight Virginia F. Nichols Beth Moore Grace V. McCurdy Helen S. Toolson 121 Iva Lou Nebeker Highest Percentages British Western States Canadian North Central States Eastern States Central States _2 200222..222e-ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeee West Central States Northern California California 222.-2-02222c2e-ceeeeeeeeeceeeeeeceeeceeeeeeeeeee Northern States -_Beulah B. Woodbury Ada S. Christiansen Frances J. Monson.-Joie M. Hilton -Olive L. Smith Marcella Meador -Hazel Woolley..-Leta C. Pugh -LaPriel Bunker Mary E. Maycock Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 1641 Sugar House 974 Huntington Park 1270 Alpine 965 Glendale 1124 Davis 928 Ensign 1039 Shelley 907 East Mesa 985 Burley 889 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions West Central States 1075 Central States 605 New England 917 Southern States 604 Northern States 875 Northwestern States 591 East Central States 796 Gulf States 573 Eastern States 633 Great Lakes 515 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Over Bear River -Lottie Potter Granite -..------Wilma D. Wetzel Box Elder Iva Lou Nebeker Highland Lucille M. Larsen Burley ------Virginia F. Nichols Holladay --Ruth C. Andrus Calgary Vernetta Reed Huntington Park Rachel Liston East Idaho Falls Sarah Owens Inglewood -Janet C. Medina East Pocatello Norma Adams Juarez 22.2.-.-2-----Fannie B. Hatch Glendale -Mildred Robison Kansas City -Venna T. Witbeck Granger -Althora P. Sizemore Las Vegas -.----Helen S. Toolson MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 375 Malad ----------Maud Y. Jensen St. Joseph - Nira P. Lee Minidoka Lila Neibaur St. Louis - Tessie Lake Monument Park Sara Stone San Diego. Joan Knudson New Jersey -..----Dorothy A. Keatley San Joaquin Ethel Martin North Jordan Vonda L. Sharp Shelley 20.02 Beth M. Clawson North Pocatello Tura Hadley South Idaho Falls.. Violet K. Jaussi Oquirth --Dorothy Smith South Los Angeles.. Amelia Dellenbach Orange County Elizabeth Reynolds South Salt Lake Hannah Dietrich Marleys -..-Genevieve Lewis Torrance Thelma Perkin Phoenix ----Alva L. Knight West Covina Lucille C. Hales Pikes Peak Dorothy L. Newton Whittier 222.222 Mary C. Drever Pocatello -Anna M. Egbert Woodruff -2 Naomi B. Harris Rexburg --. Beth Moore Mission Percentages on Honor Roll Bntish 143 California 07 Northwestern States 80 Western States 129 Northern States 95 East Central States 79 Canadian 124 Southern States 94 Scottish-Irish 79 North Central 111 Alaskan Canadian 93 Western Canadian 78 Eastern States 107 Southern Australian 89 Great Lakes 77 | Central States 105 Texas 89 Gulf States 76 West Central States 101 New England 88 South African 76 Northern California 100 Central Atlantic 85 Eastern Atlantic 75 | Stakes by Percentages—1961 South Los Angeles 226 Virginia 111 East Long Beach 107 Huntington Park 189 Kansas City 111 Granite 107 Inglewood 143 Albuquerque 111 Calgary 107 Glendale 135 Pocatello 111 Great Falls 107 Phoenix 135 San Joaquin 110 Redwood 107 Burley 134 Santa Rosa 110 San Diego East 107 Rexburg 129 Whittier 110 South Idaho Falls 107 Edmonton ~ 124 W oodruft 110 New Jersey 107 Las Vegas 122 St. Joseph 110 Roy 107 Box Elder 121 Juarez 110 Las Vegas North 107 san Diego 121 Reseda 109 Bear River 106 Shelley 120 Temple View 109 Parlevs 106 Pikes Peak 119 East Phoenix 109 West Boise 106 'Phoenix North 117 Mojave 109 South Salt Lake 106 Holladay 116 West Covina 109 East Mesa 105 Torrance 116 St. Louis 109 Nyssa 105 |Oquitrh 116 Mt. Jordan 109 Liberty 105 Minidoka 115 North Pocatello 108 New York 104 Toronto - 114 Yuma 108 Ammon 104 Cassia 113 Monument Park 108 Bonneville 104 East Idaho Falls 113 Highland 108 Orange County 104 376 West Utah East Pocatello Idaho Falls Maricopa Raft River Florida Pasadena Ensign Wells Grand Coulee Fresno South Bear River Mill Creek Reno North Wilford Sugar House Santa Monica Granger San Fernando Burbank San Bernardino Olympus Weber Heights Malad Canoga Park Cottonwood Moapa Franklin North Seattle Mt. Rubidoux St. George East Sharon North Jordan American Falls Nampa North Tooele Grand Junction Palomar Sevier Palmyra Grant Utah Philadelphia Beaver Juab Mt. Graham Santa Barbara RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Union Tavlorsville Granger North Big Horn: Panguitch St. Johns West Pocatello Long Beach University West Chicago Vancouver Walnut Creek Young Monterey Bay Gooding Ogden Weiser 100 100 100 99 99 99 Monument Park West 98 San Antonio Rigby Sacramento Denver West Hayward Tavlor Chevenne Santa Ana Columbia River Spanish Fork Ashley Portland Farr West Grantsville Duchesne Granite Park Lake View North Box Elder North Rexburg Emigration New Orleans Portneuf Twin Falls Tulsa Uintah Pask Yellowstone Norwalk Reno 97 97 97 Los Angeles Cache Lethbridge Garden Grove Cedar West Bannock Murray Washington Redondo North Davis Richland Boise St. George East South Blackfoot Tooele Puget Sound West Sharon Mt. Logan Hyrum Blackfoot North Weber San Juan Valley View Winder Kolob Snowflake Alberta East Los Angeles Southern Arizona Deseret Missoula East Rigby Tucson Oklahoma San Jose Gridley North Sevier Sharon Denver Lake Mead Alaska Bountiful Uvada Benson Lost River Millard Santaquin-Tintic on 94 94 93 93 9a 93 i) 93 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 gi gl 91 Ql 91 91 91 91 gl Ql 91 91 go go go go go MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 Wasatch North Idaho Falls Timpanogos Tacoma East Mill Creek Kanab Ben Lomond Seattle San Leandro Garfield South Davis Honolulu Riverton Hillside Zion Park Idaho Riverside East Cache Butte Rose Park Cleveland Taber Nebo Cannon Klamath Bakersfield Star Valley Murray South Blaine Winter Quarters Napa Davis Oakland-Berkeley Atlanta Riverdale Miami East Provo Roosevelt American River Nevada Provo Alpine Brisbane Parowan Mesa 88 88 » 88 88 88 Mt. Logan Lewiston Auckland Craig Minnesota Greensboro Montpelier Moroni South Summit Salt Lake Springville Wayne Covina Idaho Logan San Francisco Lehi Spokane Clearfield East Ogden Bountiful North Midvale North Carbon Palo Alto Detroit San Luis Obispo Bear Lake San Mateo Oneida El Paso Weber South Sevier Pioneer Smithfield Teton Flagstaff South Ogden Cedar Redding Indianapolis Orem Emery Sandy Orlando East Jordan 80 West Jordan South Sanpete Dallas North Sacramento Morgan Salmon River Humboldt Lorin Farr San Luis Ben Lomond South Summit Cincinnati Leicester Houston Melbourne North Sanpete Salem Tampa London Gunnison Lyman Shreveport Willamette Beaumont Hamilton Yakima Carbon Bountiful South South Carolina Kearns North Canyon Rim North Carolina Sydney Orem West Kearns Layton Leeds Manchester University Hawks Bay *Brigham Young Univ. *Utah State Univ. *Brigham Young Univ. 2nd 40 15 14 (*Limited Participation ) Relief Society Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Alpine American Falls American River Ammon Ashley Atlanta Auckland Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaver Ben Lomond Benson Big Horn Blackfoot Blaine Boise Bonneville Bountiful Bountiful North Box Elder Brisbane Burbank Burley Butte Cache Calgary SS ca a STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1961 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 221 197 89 718 652 91 499 554 111 11638 965 88 352 355 101 588 490 88 438 456 104 477 459 96 391 329 84 285 2838 82 515 488 85 362 337 93 515 411 80 508 540 106 528 529 100 475 417 88 602 535% 89 883 877 99 666 608 91 303 256 84 618 569% 92 840 875 104° 556 495% 89 561 450 80 794 862 121 189 156 8&3 667 679 102 665 889 134 498 429 86 610 573 94 467 500 107 Magazine Representative Uarda Conner Viola B. Wynder Neta Patterson Marvel Sunderland Erminnie Johnson Norma Pezely Violet K. Jaussi Barsalena R. Hatch Lucille Bennett M. J. Ottley La Rue S. Pettit Clara C. Christensen Marie Olsen Lottie R. Potter Aletha Gillins Florence B. Campbell Jalaine P. Jensen Bettina C. Graham M. Deon Ostergar Vera E. Clifford Effie Baxter Phyllis L. Clayton Jessie J. Terry Euphamia H. Terry Iva Lou Nebeker Hilda Maurer Joy Earl Virginia F. Nichols Harriet Millecam Afton H. Stuart Vernetta Reed Relief Society Cannon Canoga Park Cassia Cedar Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Clearfield Cleveland Columbia River Cottonwood Covina Craig Dallas Davis Denver Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello East Provo EnrollSubseriptions ment No. Pet. 521 448% 85 298 302 101 386 4388 113 384 298 78 368 3438 93 328 317 97 664 655 99 635 510 80 285 244 8&6 776 748 96 728 788 101 5383 480 81 214 175 82 387 293 76 1102 928 £84 452 405 90 453 439 97 742 672 91 473 378 80 393 875 95 855 738 86 494 556 113 776 592% 6 590 633 107 686 623 91 938 985 105 614 540 88 718 577 80 798 870 109 552 574 104 569 476 84 Magazine Representative Elda L. Hailes Ann Whelan Claudia Martin Norene Ashman Belle J. Webster Shirley Cottrell Hazel G. Kitch Ella N. Christensen Helen S. Clark Agnes Hill Isabelle T. Nelson Gladys I. Barker Nellie J. Crosby Nellie M. Knight Sarah B. Strong Ilah K. Smith Phyllis A. Mohler Leatha Bennett Grace R. McCallum Ardeth R. Johansen Elizabeth E. Steed Sarah Owens Vera Cowley Ethel M. Lemons Valerie C. Baisley Elva M. Brown Marilyn C. Shaw Lucille Stratford Geneva Cluff Norma Adams Jean L. Stott 378 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Relief Society East Rigby IcSast Sharon Edmonton El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Farr West Flagstaff Florida Franklin Fresno Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding' Grand Coulee Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Hayward Highland Hillside Holladay Honolulu Humboldt Huntington Park EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 625 563 90 585 591 101 267 3382 124 486 387 80 719 555 77 508 482 95 1006 1039 1038 631 606 96 470 3867 78 515 5384 104 796 806 101 626 643 103 292 2738 93 294 257 87 832 1124 135 6138 600% 98 540 557 103 418 421 101 287 2938 102 492 491 100 639 685% 107 635 606 95 774 778 101 510 490 96 345 369 107 300 245 82 703 631 90 357 346 97 548 589% 108 1045 804% 87 664 772 116 467 406 87 238 178 75 673 1270 189 Magazine Representative Myrtle Burtenshaw Hildegard P. Nicholes Grace V. McCurdy Ellis F. Nielsen Edith Collard Sarah K. McKay Pearl L. Whitney Bertha H. Palmer Mary L. Kremer Vera Williams Phyllis W. Kingsford Muriel Welton Beulah M. Cox Dorma P. Barton Mildred Robison Viola Gold Amy Kent Lanor Rowe Althora P. Sizemore Ella H. Larson Wilma D. Wetzel Lythia J. Street Consie M. Wynn Lucille G. Anderson Glenna MacDonald Ruby Braddoch Vera D. Allred Rose Winkel Lucille M. Larsen Mae M. Hickman Ruth C. Andrus Michuje Kamashiro Della Monson Rachel Liston Relief Society Hyrum Idaho Idaho Falls Indianapolis Inglewood Juab Juarez Kanab Kansas City Klamath Kolob Lake Mead Lake View Las Vegas Las Vegas North Lehi Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Malad Maricopa Mesa Miami Midvale Millard Mill Creek Minidoka Minnesota Missoula EnrollSubscriptions ment Wo. Pet. 678 620 91 434 375 86 556 578 104 371 287 77 597 854 1438 525 525 100 97 107 110 493 43838 88 412 458 111 546 465 85 601 547% 91 465 415 89 408 389% 95 518 634 122 459 490 107 664 5385 81 580 543 94 265 217 82 735 771 105 595 480 81 626 619 99 735 548 75 644 606 94 300 205 89 577 586 102 782 812 104 1021 841 82 280 235 84 690 554 80 611 541 89 429 440% 103 652 747 115 378 309 82 448 405 90 Magazine Representative Rhoda Thorpe Elizabeth L. Stevens Erma W. Boyce Josephine Jones Janet C. Medina Reba P. Mangelson Fannie B. Hatch Arvilla J. Heaton Venna T. Witbeck Marion Sander Hilda W. Cherrington Magda Potter Orba S. Bunot Helen S. Toolson Carrie G. Beatty Rosa Ashton Beulah Manser Renae B. Larsen Luella L. Birrell Eva L. Bernston Savilla Walton Charlotte Dean Verda Cohen Edna M. Hansen Maude Y. Jensen Muriel Freeman Edith D. O'Barr Violet Anne Pettley Hazel Anderson Leah D. Wood Martha H. Matern Lila Neibaur Winifred Durant Norma Ludlow MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 379 Relief Society Moapa Mojave Monterey Bay Montpelier Monument Park Monument Park West Morgan Moroni Mt. Graham Mt. Jordan Mt. Logan Mt. Ogden Mt. Rubidoux Murray Murray South Nampa Napa Nebo Nevada New Jersey New Orleans New York North Box Elder North Carbon North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Seattle 296 441 361 762 462 623 370 382 663 403 735 643 850 554 777 863 409 627 420 293 249 338 840 588 679 805 529 590 662 449 636 No. 300 481 354 622 499 608 280 312 663 437 673 529 860 515 659% 865 345 534% 350 313 236 353 802 471 628 711 534% 640 630 340 644 STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1961 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. 101 109 98 82 108 98 76 82 100 109 92 82 101 93 85 100 84 85 83 107 95 104 95 80 92 88 101 108 95 76 101 Magazine Representative Era C. Jones Wilda N. Andrejcik Lilly B. Lovejoy. Lola McCammon Sara Stone Betty March Manilla W. Carter Ida Allred Flora John Rose A. Brown Ldla H. Gibbons Leola B. Clark Hilda R. Peel Mabell A. Smith Beatrice H. Turner Ida Cafferty LaVaun L. Allen Leona S. Crouch May Probert Dorothy A. Keatley Goldie S. Kleinpeten Thyra Stoddard Hilda R. Forrest Parthenia H. Rhead Helen W. Barber Mary L. Wilding Vonda L. Sharp Tura Hadley Myrtle B. Park Ruth M. Moses Lillian Bulman Relief Society North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma City Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Orange County Orem Orlando Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys Parowan Pasadena Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Portland Portneuf Provo EnrollSubscriptions. Pet. Ment 400 A497 630 473 433 802 669 289 557 678 585 511 619 254 651 598 268 495 791 446 384 777 295 536 684 269 617 465 880 494 516 No. 359 501 575 446 455 676 654 260 566 541 676 532 479 195 655 479 270 491 746 A71h 317 803% 296 724 802 319 485 515 847 468 430 90 101 91 94 105 84 98 90 102 80 116 104 Vl 77 101 80 101 99 94 106 83 103 100 135 117 119 79 111 96 95 83 Magazine Representative Clarissa J. Sorensen Mildred Sagers Nellie Opheikens Manilla J. Corse Orpha Robinson Vera Weindorf Chloe F. Summerill Frances Boden Glenna B. Brown Junelin P. Auger Dorothy Smith Elizabeth H. Reynolds Minnie G. Wilberg Leila Prevatt Bernice S. Swenson Vivian M. Anderson Amaretta H. Graves Beth R. Tebbs Pearl E. Rohde Genevieve M. Lewis Mary L. Stubbs Zelma McCune Pauline G. Bishop Alva L. Knight Edith M. Alexander Dorothy L. Newton Rura J. Woodall Anna M. Egbert Arelie Reznick Goldie Toler Deseret Bullock 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Relief Society Puget Sound Raft River Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg Richland Rigby Riverdale Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Roy Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East Sandy San Fernando San Franciseo San Joaquin San Jose EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 442 406 92 186 193 104 300 256 = =T7 517 478% 93 215 230 107 428 403 94 342 351 103 458 501 109 667 859 129 610 563 92 826 805 97 695 585 84 674 582% 86 461 400 87 540 451 84 830 712 86 444 474 107 629 612 97 448 453 101 488 449% 92 495 491 99 569 627 110 239 260 109 1938 145 75 842 683 81 268 261 97 667 679 102 697 841 121 643 688 107 764 588% 77 664 677 102 428 345 81 725 70 110 565 508 90 Magazine Representative Selena Fern Buridge Alice O. Neddo Maxine Hansen Eileen Berg Myrtle Dillon Doris Young Mabel C. Barnard Winona Mordue Beth Moore Erma E. Berg Ora Stallings Rhoda W. Priest Bess Davis Blanche B. Densley Katie Duncan Helen M. Shelton Dorothy F. Oleson Adelle M. Gorsch Sylva Graf Agnes S. Pickett Jane Miller Nira P. Lee Tessie Lake Keturah B. Moultrie Frances L. Kooyman Elaine V. Drake Valeen M. Jolley Joan Knudson Beba Berg Louise R. Neff Elva Kershaw Afton Logan Ethel Martin Barbara R. Simmons Relief Society San Juan | San Leandro San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana Santa Barbara Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Seattle Sevier Sharon Shelley Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake South Sanpete South Sevier South Summit Southern Arizona Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Taber Tacoma Taylor EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 638 582 91 381 334 88 274 219 80 609 486 80 353 341 97 3875 375 100 803 820 102 487 538 110 374 331 89 795 698 88 837 843% 101 405 363% 90 758 907 120 717 564 19 689 627 91 624 641 103 676 623 92 895 781 87 448 479 107 726 1641 226 496 386 78 471 497 106 780 594 16 451 356% 179 433 352 81 354 321 91 652 628 96 697 561 80 652 528 81 714 607% 85 953 974 102 378 323 85 360 317 88 715 693 97 Magazine Representative Eloise B. Mahon Mary C. McDonald Anna Dee Packer R. Elaine Pendleton Ethel Blood Lydia B. Anderson Helen Wilkinson Verna F. Baldwin | Sylvia Steck Laura C. Bronner Manitta Hansen Addie G. Edwards Beth M. Clawson Sadie B. Elder Lucillia S. Peterson Vilate Archibald Agnes D. Cox Gwen M. Horsley Violet K. Jaussi Amelia Dellenbach Hazel Goodwin Hannah Dietrich Ethel S. Hughes Vera Smith Josephine S. Wagstaff Maud Post ' Alene F. Meldrum Beulah A. Edwards Donetta Anthon Maurine T. Harrison Nellie J. Ehlers Emma B. Harris Nettie Blake Ruth S. Hovey MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 381 Relief Society Taylorsville Temple View Teton Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek Wasatch STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1961 EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 406 405% 100 752 822 109 518 407 79 811 715 88 487 448 92 406 464 114 437 508 116 592 533 90 238 225 95 903 855 95 433 409 94 580 580 100 607 600 99 565 568 101. 313 279 89 586 535 91 216 213 99 430 479 111 697 685 98 782 692 88 Magazine Representative Marjorie E. Coats Mabel E. Snow Bertha Gillette Vera Matthews Jewel Halgren Ruth Florence Rennie Thelma Parkin Belva Jones Virginia L. Jacobson Carrie Webb Ada W. Busch Mar Jean Westerfield Maud W. Johnson Effie J. Pinegar Martha H. Bleak Dorie N. Walton Doris M. Puzianowski Cassandra L. Waddoups Marie D. Barber Leda Titus Relief Society Washington Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah Whittier Wilford Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park EnrollSubseriptions ment No. Pet. 837 776 93 333 269 81 712 566 79 582 541 102 560 547 98 860 888 103 697 737 106 545 594 109 599 457 16 459 455 99 391 359 92 691 719% 104 500 552 110 600 615 103 459 419 91 290 245 84 557 614 110 829 782 94 604 593 98 277 300 108 386 334 87 Magazine Representative Ruby D. Mikesell Patra Taylor Florence W. Wright Alma M. Peterson Irene H. Winegar Gertrude J. Fullmer Edith Coleman Lucille C. Hales Phebe Johnson Alta Holmes Ethel S. Taylor Aleta M. Harding Mary C. Drever Lila F. Madsen Charlottie B. Poulton Shirley R. Redd Naomi B. Harris Myrle M. White Iva Sterling Effie Nowland Pearl W. Stratton 382 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 MISSIONS ON HONOR ROLL-1961 Relief EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Society Relief Society EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Alaskan Canadian 278 258 938 #Marie M. Weilenmann North Central States 461 513 111 #£=jJoie M. Hilton British California 213 Canadian 398 Central Atlantic States 639 Central States 576 East Central States 1003 Eastern Atlantic States 591 Eastern States 591 Florida 613 Great Lakes 673 Gulf States 752 New England 1037 267 383 207 494 540 605 796 444 633 490 515 573 917 148 97 124 85 105 79 75 107 80 77 76 88 Beulah B. Woodbury LaPriel S. Bunker Frances J. Monson Catherine W. Aposhian Marcella Meador Delilah Hatch Brown Thelma Irene Hill Olive L. Smith Edith Kraft Lyman Anne R. Gledhill Marie C. Richards May F. Carr Northern California Northern States Northwestern States Scottish-Irish South African Southern Australian Southern States Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States X 3 356 8 875 591 205 235 308 604 316 1069 1075 139 109 100 95 80 79 76 89 94 89 101 78 323 416 129 Leta C. Pugh Mary E. Maycock Verna Geneal Wood Nada R. Brockbank Hilda H. Alldredge Edna M. Ord Elva Stella Ravsten Karma Y. Jordan Hazel Woolley Rhea May Arthur Smith Ada S. Christiansen MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL FOR 1961 383 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by President Alvin R. Dyer SINGING MOTHERS OF THE EUROPEAN AND WEST EUROPEAN MISSIONS PRESENT MUSIC FOR LATTER-DAY SAINT SERVICEMEN'S CONFERENCE, BERCHTESGADEN, GERMANY, November 1961 Front row, seated, left to right (in dark dresses): Gloria Wright, organist; Doris Allen, Relief Society supervisor of the European Mission Servicemen's Board; Marjorie Updegrove, chorister.: Elder Alvin R. Dyer, former President of the European Mission reports: "This conference not only featured general sessions, where we had the largest attendance that has ever been accomplished at a servicemen's conference in Europe, but it also featured departmental sessions, including a Relief Society leadership meeting.. At this meeting there were 140 wives of Latter-day Saint servicemen in attendance. 'These represented most of the missions of Europe where United States servicemen are stationed, the greatest number of which were from the West and South German Missions, with other representatives from the French, Swiss, Berlin, Netherlands, North German, and British Missions. This particular session of conference was under the direction of Sister Doris Allen, who is the Relief Society supervisor of the European Mission Servicemen's Board. Sister Allen had collaborated with Sister Dyer in arranging a program and providing information with mimeographed material being given to each sister concerning the Relief Society program of the Church. Particular attention was given to the preparation of the annual report, and stress was placed on reaching more of the servicemen's wives, including their participation in the Relief Society program." Page 384 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 385 Photograph submitted by Dicie Maud S. Godfrey PIONEER STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 1961 Vondra Dipo, chorister, stands at the right, and Edna Willis, organist, is seated at the piano. Dicie Maud S. Godfrey is president of Pioneer Stake Relief Society. £ god Boete a ~ % ¥ 27 8 e ss ee: Siieia. Wye ' |e @ F&F c; | BS; ae 4 i a 2 5 Bf 3:;:. 7 i i Bi; / && £ * Bias ': - " = ¥ = '. Fs 23.: '>: j i ' ify f ' _® ae al §: ':;. Ae 4 +; *:: 3 2 € wv < 7 z: "es ¥ *¢ "2 3 e 4 Fi 4 ee Photograph submitted by Kathleen S. Farnsworth BEAVER STAKE (UTAH), MILFORD SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OPENING SOCIAL "TURN BACK THE PAGES OF HISTORY?" October 3, 1961 Left to right: Vilate Lang, President; Afton Petty; Leora McCulley; Erma Nielee leila Martin; Florence Myers; Aldean Jones; Margery Sherwood; Arleen Clark; Ethel eilson. Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former president, Beaver Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Milford Second Ward held a unique and very effective opening social October 3, 1961. "Turn Back the Pages of History,' a fashion show depicting the beautiful cos- 386 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 tumes in several periods of time, from the organization of Relief Society to the present, was effectively presented. Several young sisters, new members of Relief Society, modeled costumes which were treasures of bygone days. 'The original script was read by Aldean M. Jones. Delightful songs, appropriate to the time, were sung by the participants. Unusual interest was created, new sisters brought into activity, and a delightful time was enjoyed by the large group present. Refreshments were served from a beautifully arranged table. "To assist Beaver Stake with our membership drive, 'Every Latter-day Saint Woman of Beaver Stake an Active Relief Society Member,' our chorister Ireta M. Baker composed a song which goes to the tune of the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic.' We introduced it at our leadership meeting. It went over well, and all ward workers were enthusiastic about the campaign for increased membership." Lucille A. Murdock is the new president of Beaver Stake Relief Society. V\i \¢ XY wY: \ wt "ML \ y * Naa an Photograph submitted by Dawn C. Hanks SAMOAN MISSION, PESEGA SECOND BRANCH, APIA DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY, SERVES MORNING REFRESHMENTS TO "PACIFIC WOMEN'S INTEREST SEMINAR," September 16, 1961 Dawn C. Hanks, President, Samoan Misson Relief Society, reports: ""The picture shows some of the members of the Pesega Second Branch Relief Society of Apia District. On September 16, 1961, the two Pesega Branch Relief Societies were hostesses to the Pacific Women's Interest Seminar which was meeting in Western Samoa. Included were delegates from all the islands of the Pacific, Australia, and the United Nations. About fifty visitors enjoyed the demonstrations of sewing and cooking and the work meeting activities shown in the homemaking booklets now in use in the Samoan branch Relief Societies. Many of these booklets were purchased by the delea NOTES FROM THE FIELD 387 gates. After visiting the opening exercises of the Pesega Second Branch Primary, and being served morning refreshments by the Relief Society women, Pesega First Branch demonstrated the sewing of shirts, shorts, muumuus, beadwork, weaving of fans, and block printing of dress materials. Pesega Second Branch demonstrated the cooking of pineapple and mango jam, deep fried taro balls, and cakes. Pictured here is the stove made from a gasoline drum which the Relief Society is encouraging, rather than cooking over an open fire, as is the custom generally in Samoa. Display tables, showing materials used for Primary, MIA, and Relief Society aided the misson board members in presenting briefly an over-all view of the Church program. A tour of the Pesega chapel, school, and mission home completed the morning's activities. 'Though the time was short and filled with activity, we felt that the visitors received a good idea of what the Church is doing for the women of Samoa." Photograph submitted by Verny J. Olson SOUTH SALT LAKE STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR CHAPEL DEDICATION September 10, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: First Counselor Lydia Y. Burrows; Second Counselor Elda D. Miller; President Verny J. Olson; chorister Reva A. Davenport. Mary H. Jensen, organist, is seated at the piano. Verny J. Olson, President, South Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, reports: "We feel that our Singing Mothers were signally honored by being invited to present the music for the dedication of the 'Chapel by the Wayside' at Utah State Prison, said to be one of the most beautiful prison chapels in the United States. Fifty Singing Mothers sang 'The Lord's Prayer,' by Gates. After the dedicatory prayer by President Hugh B. Brown, Counselor in the First Presidency, the Singing Mothers sang 'Bless This House.' Much praise was given for the beauty of these renditions. We are proud of our Singing Mothers and our chorister and organist. Much of the success of this group is due to the exceptional talents, the untiring efforts, and faithful services of these two sisters."' 388, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 ee. SHE 'et: EBA 3 rs '. 2% es. 7 2 = Photograph submitted by Clara S. Roberts SOUTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, September 10, 1961 Seated, front center: Jennie O. Wingate, acting chorister. Seated at piano: Elizabeth S. Staples, organist.. Standing, third from the left on the back row: Clara S. Roberts, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society. Front row, seated, third from the right: Bernice W. Wade, First Counselor. Sister Roberts reports: "These Singing Mothers presented four lovely numbers for our stake quarterly conference sessions. We are thankful for this privilege, and feel that our testimonies were strengthened by this experience." Photograph submitted by Louise B. Johansen NORTH SANPETE STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Organist Rhoda Drage stands at the left of the piano in the front row; Ethel Porter, who was organist for five years, with the late chorister Opal Hermansen, stands sixth from the left in the front row; Ethel Ericksen, special accompanist for many years, stands at the right of the piano; Louise B. Johansen, President, North Sanpete Stake Relief Society, stands fifth from the right of the organ in the front row. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 389 Sister Johansen reports: ""The North Sanpete Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are actively engaged in singing for many occasions. 'They were invited to sing at the Moroni Stake conference last spring, and in our own stake in September. They also participated in the Visiting Teacher Convention in Scptember, where the goal of "Every Sister a Member of Relief Society in 1962' was introduced. They plan to sing at the Stake Day party to be held in the Relief Society Building in June 1962. 'They have sung at several funerals, including the services for stake chorister Opal Hermansen who passed away in February 1962, and who had served faithfully as stake chorister for seventeen years." Photograph submitted by Virginia N. Myers CALGARY STAKE (CANADA), CALGARY FIRST WARD BAZAAR September 14, 1961 Seated at the right: Lenore Heninger, President, and Lavonne Howden, Work Director Counselor. Standing, left to right: Geraldine Johnston; Valerie Hanson, social science class leader; Lucille Brett; Beth Olson, Secretary; Edith Kutch; Aline Kelm; Jean Meyer; Cleo Bilton, work meeting leader; Meridee Smith; Patricia Hellier; Myrna Pitcher, Employment Counselor. Virginia N. Myers, President, Calgary Stake Relief Society, reports: "This bazaar and tour of homes has become an annual fall event, and both work successfully together in raising funds for Relief Society and the Welfare project. This year our bazaar featured aprons and quilts (as shown in the picture), house plants, recipe books, candy, and home baking, specializing in homemade bread. The sisters in the picture, as well as other sisters of the ward not in the picture, worked diligently to make the day a success." 390 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY, 1962 Photograph submitted by Ann Packer Lloyd BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS RELEASED AND HONORED AT A DINNER AND PROGRAM, July 17, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right, former stake board officers: Mildred W. Burton, | First Counselor; Edith W. Hubbard, President; Della T. Mendenhall, Second Counselor. | Back row, standing, left to right: Alice Clegg; Ida Sorenson; Della Whitehead, Secretary-Treasurer. Ann Packer Lloyd, President of Bannock Stake Relief Society, reports that these faithful officers had served ten years and four months at the time of their release. "Sister Hubbard had served a period of more than thirty-one years of continuous service on the stake board. It is estimated that these six sisters had given a total of 109 years continuous service in the organization. A great love for them is felt through all of Bannock Stake. On July 17, 1961, a dinner and program were given in their honor by the new Relief Society Stake Board. A cake, made and decorated by Irene Young, a former board member who had served with Sister Hubbard, was in the form of an open book with the sisters' names listed on one side, and 'Bannock Stake Relief Society' listed on the other. The new Relief Society officers are: Ann Packer Lloyd, Vera Roper, First Counselor; Sybil McGregor, Second Counselor; June O. Christensen, Secretary-T'reasurer; Shirley Hubbard, Geraldine Forbush, Erma Hogan, Etheleen Andreasen, Barbara Panter, Winona Lowe, Iona Thomas, and Clara Christensen." Your Pre-School Playmates Janet W. Breeze It seemed we were always stepping on or tripping over toy sweepers, dust mops, etc., at our house until we put a tiny screw eye in the end of each and hung them on a board attached to the inside of our daughter's closet door. Seeking Catherine B. Bowles To reach a haven of peace and right, Seekers have a candle bright To see in corners where the light Brings hope in the darkest night. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 20, 1962. Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited, such as Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Victoria, Canada leaving August 18. TEN-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving dates: July 9, August 17, September aig Ask about our tours to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way ol keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house ls prepared 10 bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles - Leases ESD 150 to 300 miles 2000000. 39 300 to 600 miles. Vececeeeeceeee 45 Yd 600 to 1000 miles wosereae-- OS 1000 to 1400 miles wu. 64 1400 to 1800 miles 00.0..000.0.76 Over 1800 miles =. O7 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 39] Birthday Congratulations Ninety-six Mrs. CHARLOTTE FAWCETT BEARD Coalville, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. ANNA LEFGREEN DAHLSTROM Ogden, Utah Mrs. MarTHA JANE SARGENT KINSEY Raymond, Canada Ninety-three Mrs. ELLEN WALTON WILLIAMS Farmington, Utah Mrs. ISABELLE OVERSON Richfield, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE PLOGER Hart French Camp, California Ninety-two Mrs. Mary ALicE ANDERSON FARNSWORTH Menlo Park, California Ninety-one Mrs. Jutia FLorENcE AKERS MILLER Truth or Consequences New Mexico Mrs. ELIZABETH GREENWELL FARLEY Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie Biack GARNER Sugar City, Idaho Page 392 Ninety Mrs. Lovina Van LEUVEN ASHBY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. AMANDA CATHERINE HENDRICKS Price Gridley, California Mrs. Fito Grecory BEHNEY Stockton, California Mrs. EMELINE PETERS WATKINS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martina JENSEN LARSEN Clearfield, Utah May Louisa Bacon TAYLOR Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary ELiIzABETH WORKMAN Hurricane, Utah Mrs. JOSEPHINE WORKMAN FAWCETT Hurricane, Utah Mrs. ALicE PuTNAM Grants Pass, Oregon Each Day Mae L. Curtis Kindly give to me each day, A prayer to guide me on my way. A blessing, give me strength to live, And learn to love and to forgive. Help me pure and sinless be, To greet each day with faith in thee. Gives you the ultimate in fingertip total electric living now and for years to come. Y ULAR iS" L) | When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? Fal G A SERIA RE aeES Ney Sea etree UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Buy now from your dealer eepeer cone 7 NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — June 29, July 3, August 6 July 9 leaving from Phoenix, Arizona EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — June 15, August 9, September 8, September 22. HAWAII June 7, June 24 HILL CUMORAH TOUR leaving July 28 MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 z_oa ee sees Ce GE Oe os ee eee ess eee ee oe | "7: BOOKS | l for th | or the e _ | URCH |: PIANIST I | -_ | | I | I | I |.. PRELUDES, OFFERTORIES AND l POSTLUDES — Schaum 85 |.. SABBATH DAY MUSIC — | Randolph - o eee al.50 ro SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO— A he a2.00 | = SACRED MUSIC FOR PIANO SOLO — Collins 2.0.001.50 DG SACRED PIANO ALBUM—Gahm..1.50 | —_ SACRED PIANO SOLOS — Rettenburg eS ool.00 — SACRED PIANO TRANSCRIP- | TIONS — Peery _.00. O ccecccccececeseeesl.00 | SCHIRMERS FAVORITE SACRED SONGS — Stickles. 2.000 1.25 | |. SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — | BYGGRON --.---nnennncencero--e-cocennnsoeeel.25 od SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — I PreSS@Pr:..---..--2--ee-ccccoeecceeceeeeeeeeel.25. TRANQUIL HOURS — Presser 2.00 | — TWELVE SACRED SONGS — SHIGMIES, ccccenoe0---ncescccnenesseccereececeseo-1.25 Music Sent on Approval I Use this advertisement as your | order blank | S|) edie, DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY | 15 E. Ist South | | Sait Lake City 11, Utah | hor send the music indicated | above. | [}] On Approval [] Charge | C) Money Enclosed | | ko, | | ae eS ee |; City and State 2 cle cceeeseeeweeeeee oer a | | si cael g — | TTT m | i | 15 E. Ist South | fj? Salt Lake City 11, Utah | | ss. | ' Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah N REX-R &-184-51872 «OCT 62 President Hugh B. Brown's recent address... "MORMONISM" President Brown gives an eloquent and sincere account of "Mormonism" in this address delivered to theological students of the Presbyterian faith. — He explains such practices as Tithing, Fast Offerings, The Word of Wisdom such beliefs as The Godhead, Eternal Progression, the Marriage Covenant, and Continued Revelation. This booklet is truly enlightening — excellent reading for members as well as non-members. 50c copy W. Cleon Skousen's newest book... This is written for parents who want SO YoU to raise well-adjusted, non-delinquent boys. It describes "boyhood" from birth to age W ANT twenty-one, portrays physical and emotional development year-by-year, and outlines beTO R AISE havior patterns and problems parents will encounter in these years. Helpful attitudes parents can assume in these various phases A BOY? Are recommended. 4.50 44. Eas! South Tani 'Sal Lake 'ity Utah Deseret Book Glneainw- 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( lG have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed ---+-- ', 35 BE ft rf a4 x3 for _ 0 "Mormonism" "So You Want To Raise A Boy."'
