Pres. Dorothy J]. Roberts We had one day of wide and azure water, Of white and climbing citadels of cloud; The peace that is a silent part of summer, A ring of purple mountains, distant, proud. We saw the sunflowers blazing into August, The petal-banded meadows flowing by, Swallows hung like baubles on the rushes; Lombardies laced the sapphire of the sky. We had one. Afternoon of airy stillness, And stayed to watch the sunset flare and burn. All ours — the mounded hay, the amber stubble — Until we took the roadway of return. The Cover: The Jordan River at the Supposed Place of the Baptism of Jesus Color Transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson Frontispiece: Summer in the Forest by Arizona Photographic Associates Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOM Surprise! What a lovely new look the Magazine (May 1962) has. It was like meeting a cherished friend in a new dress. Thank you for the lovely setting for my poem ("On a May Morning" — frontispiece). I have had several calls about it. I think Paul Roberts' cover and the accompanying frontispiece picture are both beautiful. Some of my earliest writing was done for the Magazine, and I have never lost the delight of finding my work in its pages. It is wonderful to know you are writing for sisters the world over, who, share your ideals and beliefs. What greater satisfaction could a writer have? —Quida Pedersen Salt Lake City, Utah It is a blessing to have our leaders so close to us through the Magazine. I belong to a small branch in the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission, and it is good to have Zion brought to us in this small envelope every month. I especially enjoyed the story '"'Splendor Before Dawn" (second prize story, February 1962, by Sara O. Moss). I am a young married woman and fully realize the pitfalls of easy installments. Fortunately, this has not been our misfortune. 'The majority of us are fortunate to have a wash boiler, and we would be in seventh heaven with a secondhand washer. —Clara Lu Waite A. P. O. New York City, New York I am enjoying our Magazine thoroughly. The articles are very interesting and so applicable to the present conditions we are confronting in our everyday life. You are to be commended for the beautiful covers. I cannot recall ever having in my hands a magazine with more beautiful covers than The Relief Society Magazine. —Mrs. Grace G. Craig Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Page 474 nap ain tae I am most thrilled with the Magazine, and was particularly pleased to see Yosemite National Park featured on the January cover of the Magazine. This is currently my home country. Being a young mother, away from close Church association, I find our wonderful little Magazine a source of inspiration, and I am most eager for its arrival each month. —Mrs. Donna B. Gebler Fl Portal, California I received my copy of the May Magazine just this afternoon, and cannot delay writing my appreciation. The new look of the Magazine is so refreshing and such a joy to have come into my home. An added pleasure of the May Magazine was the inclusion of a story by my mother Frances C. Yost, entitled "Little Teamstress." I find spiritual uplift and_practical ideas for homemaking in the Magazine. —Rosalie Y. Roberts Beaverton, Oregon Ever since Margery S. Stewart's serial "Sow the Field With Roses' began, I have been going to write about it. It ls such a delight to read something that is well written, and has depth, besides. I thought the second prize story in the contest ("Splendor Before Dawn," by Sara O. Moss, February 1962) was an excellent story and so timely. In that issue, also, was an article by Mabel Law Atkinson which was very beautiful ("Sweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed"). Our Relief Society president read it to us in visit: ing teacher meeting and commented on it. I received my May issue yesterday and was delighted with it. The fillers make a wholesome addition, and the colored pages make for attractiveness. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - c President Marianne C. Sharp 7 -- - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - -—-= - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon - Hazel S. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 49 JULY 1962 NO. 7 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES In c& Time of FlOOd onic eeccccceescceeesceecesnecceneeesencenneeeeceeececeseeeeeeneserecensneseecceceoeareeeetnneeetenseFrances C. Yost 476 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part IV — Mary Alice Cannon Lambert cn ccccccn peewee.. Preston Nibley 482 Jesus and the Land He Loved 20.0 cece ).)_Christine H. Robinson 409 FICTION Out of the Wilderness — Chapter | aShirley Thulin 484 Mama and the Heavenly Father 22.0 cece eceeececcceeeeec ee ceneeecesnececeseceeeceeesneceecesecececeseeneenesAlice Gubler 490 One of the Pioneers ono cece eeeceeceseesececeeeeseeeeceeeeseeecesneceseeseeeeseeseceesceeseesecceseseeceesssssessenseseveeesAdrian Hansen 495 Hand to the Plow — Part II] — Decision 22 ccccececeeee eee eeene eee lo seen eeneeIlene H. Kingsbury 500 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far Sixty Years Ago. Ooo ecccccccececeecceeeeeceeeceeeneeeeneeeee Woman's Sphere Editorial: A Sister to 231,174 Members a.. 504 Ramona W. Cannon 505 eeMarianne C. Sharp 506 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 22.0 ecceeccccceeecececeeeeeceeeteeeoeeeesHulda Parker 523 Birthday Congratulations.0.2 0. Ceccececcecccececeecececceceeeveeeeeessececceseeseessceeseeeecoaveeseueeeces a, 552 FEATURES FOR THE HOME The Pec Patchy once nce cceccecccseec cee ceeeseeeeeeeennecenesecsseeeeneeenecseeeeseessteeeeereeeteseeceesessseeeeeeee-eeee---DOris Duncan 498 Quick Recipes for Busy Days 2o. O.. C. Ce. EecccceecceeeseeceececeeeccecceecceesacesececeeeecseseessssesenseeeseeeeseJanet W. Breeze 518 A Stitch in Time 20. Cece ee cececeeeeeecetceteeeeeeceeeeeee aAdelle Ashby 520 Helen H. Allen — Historian and Needlecraft Artist 20.0..00.00000 ccctccccccecceeeeeceeeeeeee a 922 LESSONS FOR OCTOBER: Theology — The Center Place of Zion ee eeeRoy W. Doxey 530 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a co Lolo Ol Ole (0) re hristine H. Robinson 536 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-Organized — Part I me i Virginia F. Cutler 537 Foo ievennneascneeesctle Briant S. Jacobs 540 Sere ecoAriel S. Ballif 545 Literature — Thoreau, Man in Nature Social Science — The Meaning of Divine POETRY Summer Interval — Frontispiece -:. Dorothy J. Roberts 473 Prayer for the Fourth Generation, by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, 489; Summer Evening in the City, by Mabel Law Atkinson, 494; To the Sea Gull, by Clara Laster, 497; Commonplace Beauty, by Susa Gould Walker, 507; David on the Low Hills, by Margery S. Stewart, 508; Beauty's Bright Persistence, by Maude Rubin, 517; Beach Morning-Glories, by Ethel Jacobson, 517; Pioneer Woman, by Marjorie Reay, 517; At Summer's Edge, by Linnie Fisher Robinson, 519; The Apple Tree, by Evelyn Fijeldsted, 550; Child Swinging, by Ida Elaine James, 55]; Mount Timpanogos, by Christie Lund Coles, 551; Blessed Point of No Return, by Iris W. Schow, 552.

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE
CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
© 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association
Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511;
Subscriptions 246; Elditorial Dept. 245, Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign. $2.00 a year;
20c a copy ; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back
numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of
address at once, giving old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under
the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in
section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned
unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected monuscripts will be retained for six months only.
The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

In a time of Flood Crocheting is good to calm the nerves while waiting. I crocheted a pair of bootees waiting for my bishop husband to come home the Saturday evening of February 10, 1962. I felt too cozy in our warm, comfortable home two miles south of Bancroft, Idaho, for I knew only too well what was taking place in the village. People were sandbagging and shoveling and hoping that the temperature would drop and freeze the water. It didn't. Instead, the warm rain, pattering gently, encouraged more thawing and more rising water. If it continued, and it looked as if it would, the town would turn into a huge lake. Bancroft lies midway between Soda Springs and Lava Hot Springs on Highway 30N. It is the outgrowth of a water station built by the railroad on Squaw Creek in 1882. Bancroft was named after the first vice-president and general manager of the Oregon Shortline. Had the city of Bancroft been planned, perhaps they would have located it on a hill, or at least on a rise. Instead, it mushroomed around the railroad water stop in the lowest part of the valley. Bancroft is centrally located in a valley about the size of the Great Salt Lake Valley. Gti: nen is good to The village population is five hundred and varies very little from year to year. Bancroft is truly the center of the wheatfields surrounding it, Page 476 (Bancroft, Idaho) and reaching skyscraperward, are three grain elevators within its city limits. Spring runoffs are common in the village. Whenever the ground is frozen and does not absorb the moisture in the winter wheatfields, a runoff takes place. In the past years a few basements have had some water, and one street often turns into a river of goodly proportions. But never before had all the homes and businesses been threatened, never until the evening of February 10. When Bishop Yost came home, he said, "I believe it's holding its own. Wish the temperature would drop." He ate, slept the sleep of the exhausted for one hour, and went back to town for the night, this time wearing hip boots. Brother Christensen, on the eighth of February had stated, as he visited at the post office, "We're going to have a runoff this year worse than any we've ever had." The Christensens have a_ lovely home. They are always doing something on a do-it-yourself basis. 'They had been wanting to excavate and build another room in their basement, but time had not yet permitted it. When the rain started, encouraging the thaw, the Christensens diked as much as the frozen ground would allow. They even dug up some choice lawn sod to use for diking; but more dirt was needed, much THE FEBRUARY 1962 FLOOD IN BANCROFT, IDAHO Looking east, with the north direction at the left, and the south direction at the right. Photograph taken before the maximum water level. The ward chapel, built ten years ago, may be seen in the right background, with the schoolhouse just in front of it; one of the grain elevators may be seen in the left background; the building at the left center, surrounded by evergreens, is the ci ty hall. High. Way 30N skirts the picture on the north, and the railroad track is just north of the highway. More dirt. They started digging that room in the basement. There were plenty of gunny sacks available at the mill. But the mill was five blocks downstream from the Christensens and definitely unavailable. Sister Christensen started sewing bags. She used old sheets, old curtains, flour sacks, anything. Brother Christensen and their Eagle Scout son carried those filled sacks from the basement out to the rising water. The two younger children filled bags, which Mother kept sewing. Tired and exhausted, they worked almost the clock around. This family won the battle. The water stayed away from their door. Three blocks west, and one block south from the Christensens, live the Mickelsens. 'Three returned missionary sons turned to Sister Mickelsen and said: "Mother, there's no use in the captain going down with the ship. We're taking you out while you can get out." They made a chair for their mother in their arms, and carried her through the waist-high water to safety. 'Then the sons went back to Page 477 478 their home, carried the furniture upstairs, and pulled up the carpeting. When finished, they went to help their neighbors. Sister Shamberg, a pretty young widow with a scout son and a smaller daughter, lives in a neat little white frame house with blue trim. 'Those who pass on Highway 30 notice the Shamberg home because of its tidiness. The house was built flush with the ground, and when the water started rising the evening of February 10, Sister Shamberg knew she had trouble. Others had the same trouble. She didn't ask for help. She and her scout son diked and diked. They even used a mattress to block off the water. 'They put up a battle, and it looked as if they were winning, keeping the water away from their home. Then — swish! Swish! 'The floor boards gave way, and in one sudden rush the water filled the rooms to a two-foot level. Sister Shamberg and the children stayed on, stacked their furniture as best they could, and when the men came for them in a boat, they evacuated their home. So it was that 103 homes and twenty-eight business houses had a flood of water. Fortunate were the few homes built high from the sidewalk, or in a slightly higher part of town, which had no trouble.. The families felt fortunate who could say: "It only came in our basement." Many saw water covering their carpets and climbing their pianos. For a period of almost a week, the village, which is so used to trains passing at all hours, and so used to highway trucks barrelling through, was completely isolated. When the Red Cross executive helicoptered in, he was amazed at the fine organizaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 tion. He said: "Usually we have to evacuate people, set up refugee shelters, and form bread lines. You have done all this. How did you organize so well?" 7E, had the finest organization working on the earth — the Priesthood! Families in the village had gone to families on the farms. Many more homes than were needed had been offered. For the duration of the flood, and the rehabilitation, the village board and the principal of the school, worked hand in glove with the Church leaders, for the benefit of all. No one thought of pay, all worked willingly and well. Sharon Stanger and her two little girls, Sherry Lynn and Stacy, came home with Bishop Yost Sunday evening. 'Their father Lynn stayed in town to help out as needed, coming out almost every evening to visit with his family. The young Stangers made their home in a lovely trailer house. Had they realized soon enough what was going to happen waterwise, they would have moved the mobile home to high ground. Luckily, their home floated much as Noah's ark, and had little damage. However, it was six days before the water subsided to the point where they could go home. Monday morning Marjorie and Phil Ingersoll, with their two little children, age three, and fourteen months, came to be our guests. The Ingersolls were entertaining a teenage group after the ball game, Saturday evening, February 10. Brother Ingersoll is a salesman for high school yearbooks and supplies. He had box after box of class rings, yearbook supplies and samples in his basement. While the party was on, IN A TIME OF FLOOD the water rushed into the basement. The boys forgot their clothes as they waded in water, forming a rescue team up the stairway, and saved several hundred dollars worth of supplies. "It was a blessing we had that party, and had some help," the Ingersolls said. "We could never have done it alone." Sunday morning the water rose in the Ingersoll home to the point where they moved upstairs. Monday, the furnace ceased to work. Brother Ingersoll hailed a passing boat and took his wife and children to the school evacuation center. As I watched them come to our door, the words of my husband's patriarchal blessing came to mind: "You shall never be in want for the necessities of life, shall accumulate enough of the world's goods to provide for your family and those who come to your door seeking assistance." I welcomed them warmly. It was a good week, one which I shall never forget. We had plenty of room for all, and one bed left over. We had our supplies of food on hand as the Church had suggested, and we managed nicely. JHEN the Red Cross executive helicoptered into town, Bishop Yost invited him to stay at our home, as there was no hotel or motel available in Bancroft, due to the flood. As the day progressed we women wondered what he would be like. We decided to wait and see. If he were older, and distinguished, or a bit sophisticated, he could have the master bedroom. If he were young and friendly, he could have the bed upstairs. He never came. Someone gave him a jeep ride to Soda Springs. 479 Tuesday, I felt it would do Marjorie, Sharon, and myself good to get away from the house and the children for a time. I suggested a sight-seeing tour of Bancroft. My teenage boys, who were having a six-day vacation from school, not only volunteered to tend the four little children, but offered us their car to go in. We took off, each in a pair of snow boots, and one pair of knee boots between us. We were able to drive as far as the schoolhouse. 'The day before, the school had been accessible only by boat. 'The streets resembled those of Venice, but no gondolas were available for sight-seeing. We walked two or three blocks skirting the water and inquired of all we met, "How are you getting along?" 'The Stanger and Ingersoll homes were not accessible. I especially wanted to check personally on Grandma Yost's home. Our parents were in Arizona for the winter. We walked two blocks west and inspected it. The basement was dry as a bone. Sister Ingersoll, a music major from the Brigham Young University, sat down at Grandma Yost's little organ and played, while Sharon and I sang along. Three homes belonging to elderly couples who were wintering in Arizona were untouched by the flood waters. Some might call it coincidence. We felt it was a blessing. Some of the loveliest homes in the town were hurt the most. One modern, rambling-type brick home had one wall caved in. We watched for awhile as men were pumping out the basement, and cleaning so that they could put up two-by-fours to hold the wall and the roof from caving in. Seeing such devastation to 480 homes of those we knew and loved was saddening indeed. VV EDNESDAY was Valentine Day. The little children felt disappointed that they had to miss school on such a wonderful day. Marjorie and Sharon and I wondered if the men in our lives would remember us with a gift. We certainly didn't expect a thing with our men working so hard at this rehabilitation work. I made cherry pies, and we used the last of the ice cream on hand for pie a la mode. After supper, we sat around visiting and joking, but mostly listening to how the work was progressing in town. 'That was the evening we toured the White House with Mrs. Kennedy by way of television. Yes, sweethearts were remembered with gifts, and my boys presented me with a huge, heart-shaped box of candy. M ONDAY evening the stake president and his first counselor came from Soda Springs to see Bancroft's bishop. 'They had had to come in a truck through high water. When we went to the door to welcome them, they insisted on taking off their hip boots in the utility room. When they entered our big kitchen, our threefold family was sitting eating supper at the big table. The little ones who had eaten earlier, were playing in the living room. 'The quietest and most secluded place in the house was the master bedroom. As those three men sat on the pink chenille bedspread, in work-worn clothes, I wondered if ever before a_ stake presidency and bishop's meeting had been held in just such a setting. President Dredge stated that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 entire Church Welfare Program was behind our ward. Bancroft members who had always been on the giving side of the Welfare Program since its inception in 1936, saw the wheat they had given through the years come back in all sorts of necessary supplies at this time. The quotation "Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days," was literally being fulfilled. It was probably Tuesday evening when Bishop Allen of the Soda Springs Second Ward called. He and Bishop Yost are as close as brothers as they had served together in the Idaho Stake presidency. Their conversation went something like this: "Got any water down there?" "It's a little swampy." "Our Relief Society will be down tomorrow to serve dinner to the work crew." "That isn't necessary, Bishop Roland, we're getting along just fine." "T didn't ask you, Bishop Glenn, I'm telling you." The Relief Society came. Dinner was served in the school lunch room. It was not easy to bring food through high water and women to prepare it. The First Ward Relief Society prepared dinner also. 'Then, with the same helpful compassion, the Ladies Aid of the Soda Springs Presbyterian Church served dinner one day also. Those hot meals at noontime for six days were very much appreciated. Some of those days the work crews numbered 200. Some of the men had no homes to go to, some had come a long way to help. It would be ungrateful not to mention also the fine work the Red Cross did for the community. The three Red Cross workers who were IN A TIME OF FLOOD there were given the Latter-day Saint stake office and all the classrooms they needed for their work. They said never had they had such nice office rooms. Often they worked in tents. OUNTED among our blessings was the fact that our beautiful Latter-day Saint chapel, built and dedicated just ten years ago, was not damaged. Not even one single drop of water came in. Also, the school was unharmed, though a little water was pumped from the basement of the school. Sister Ingersoll's father came from Boise for her and the children the following Monday. 'They had been with us a week, and we knew that because of the experience we would be lifelong friends. Her note from Boise reads in part: "We certainly do appreciate ALL you did for us — it's hard to name it all, but the list goes like this: food, beds, friendship, work, comfort, patience, and on and on and on." SUNDAY the 18th, the men ™ ceased from their labors and most of the Bancroft Ward members met in sacrament meeting at two P. M. It was easier to get around in the middle part of the day, for there was still much water. 'Testimonies were borne, and blessings expressed. The town's people had been evacuated, a major cleanup job had taken place, with no drownings, no electrocutions, no accidents. In fact, our population increased by two members, two baby girls were born at 481 the Caribou County Hospital in Soda Springs on Valentine Day. Our dear ward Relief Society president, Sister Ramona McLain, is a young and willing, lovely former schoolteacher. She had served as president about six months. She was truly a wonderful mother of the ward. Her own home _ housed twenty-three extra people the night of the worst flooding, though she, with the others, had to evacuate the following day. With president, counselors, and secretary, the Relief Society operated a welfare store in the foyer of the chapel. Folks did not flock in for supplies. Bancroft folks are proud and independent. Their bishop went to the homes and invited them to come and see what supplies they needed. Especially were the juices welcomed, as water was felt to be unfit for consumption. As soon as the local stores were able to open for business, folks went back to the regular channel for their groceries. As the men finished pumping out the basements, and the heavy cleanup jobs were finished, the Relief Society moved in with an organized cleanup brigade. The many donated hours spent would be hard even to tabulate. One day the Primary officers and teachers spent the day cleaning the theater. It was found that folks enjoy working, as well as visiting at a quilting. The Flood of Sixty-two will long be a conversation piece in our area, but not with long faces, for we know from experience that many blessings and friendships come from such times of disaster! She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part IV— Mary Alice Cannon Lambert Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH Crayon Portrait by an unknown artist, probably taken from the Piercy drawing published originally in 1855. MBS. Mary Alice Cannon Lambert was born in Liverpool, England, on December g, 1828. She was the eldest daughter of George and Ann Quayle Cannon. Through the missionary efforts of Elder John Taylor, a member of the Council of the Twelve, the parents and three of the children were conPage 482 verted and baptized in 1840. In 1842, the entire family, which consisted of the parents and six children, set sail for America by way of New Orleans. During the voyage of eight weeks, the mother died and was buried at sea. 'The family con- -tinued on and reached Nauvoo, - where a home was established. They | - were prospering fairly well when _ another tragedy befell them — the _ father died in August 1844, and the children were left as orphans. Two of the older children now found a home with John Taylor, and Mary Alice established her own home through her marriage to a young English convert named Charles Lambert. The Lamberts made a home for the younger Cannon children. Mary Alice was a heroic young woman. ' After the Lambert family emigrated to Utah, they became prosperous and independent. In 1905, Mrs. Lambert wrote the following tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom she remembered when she was a growing girl in Nauvoo. The article was published in the Young Woman's Journal in December 1905. Mrs. Lambert died in Salt Lake City in 1920. "T first saw Joseph Smith in the Spring of 1843. When the boat in which we came up the Mississippi River reached the landing at Nauvoo, several of the leading brethren were there to meet the company of SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH saints that had come on it. Among those brethren was the Prophet Joseph Smith. I knew him the instant my eyes rested upon him, and at that moment I received my testimony that he was a Prophet of God, for I never had such a feeling for mortal man as thrilled my being when my eyes first rested upon Joseph Smith. He was not pointed out to me. I knew him from all the other men, and, child that I was (I was only fourteen), I knew that I saw a Prophet of God. "Many, many times between the time I reached Nauvoo and his martyrdom, I heard him preach. 'The love the saints had for him was inexpressible. They would willingly have laid down their lives for him. If he was to talk, every task would be laid aside that they might listen to his words. He was not an ordinary man. Saints and sinners alike felt and recognized a power and influence which he carried with him. It was impossible to meet him and not be impressed by the strength of his personality and influence. "In May, 1844, he went to the stone shops where the men were working on the Nauvoo Temple and blessed them, each man by the power of his Priesthood. Brother Lambert (whom I afterward married) he gathered right in his arms and blessed, and it was ever his testimony that he was thrilled from head to foot by that blessing. "T well remember the night of the 483 MARY ALICE CANNON LAMBERT Prophet's death. 'The spirit of unrest was upon all, man and animal, in the city of Nauvoo. Why, we did not know, but we could not rest. My father was on guard. No one in the house had slept, the dogs were noisy, and even the chickens were awake. "About 3 o'clock the news of the martyrdom was brought to us, and we realized what had kept. Us awake. And oh, the mourning in the land! The grief felt was beyond expression — men, women and children, we were all stunned by the blow" (Young Woman's Journal, December 1905). Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 1 Shirley Thulin ARIAN pulled another length of tissue from the roll and carefully wrapped it around the cutglass candleholder. She placed it beside its mate deep within the old trunk and reached for the matching fruit dish. It is like wrapping little pieces of myself and tucking them away in a dark place, sh thought.: The ring of the phone suddenly pierced the silence of the room. "Hello." "Marian, what are you doing? I saw Fred today and he told me you had signed a lease on your home." Marian was silent so long that the voice on the other end of the line said her name twice before she could answer. "I am going, Charles. I have to." "You must be out of your mind. How can you and the children possibly...?" His voice was going on and on, but she wasn't listening. She already knew what he would say when he found out she had decided to go. They had talked about it and he couldn't understand, and she couldn't explain... Not quite even to herself, let alone to Charles. But Marian had made up her mind she was going to the mine for the summer, as David had wanted her to do for so many summers... And only after his death had she Page 484 realized how much it had meant to him. That was the thing that had been so hard for her. The selfaccusations, the regrets.... She knew now that she had cheated David out of their summers, and at the same time had blamed him for their separation each year. She knew he had to do the assessment work or lose the mine. But she had argued each time as he was packing to go... Tried to get him to sell the land and hadn't realized how much she had pained him. "Why, you've never tangled with anything bigger or more fierce than a ladybug, Marian, you..." Charles' voice brought her back. "Please, Charles. I know the things you are saying are true." Her words were slow and deliberate, they had to be to keep her voice from trembling. "But it's just for the summer. Nothing too drastic can happen to us in that short a time." Had she heard herself correctly? Had she really said, that short a time, when deep within her she knew that from the 10th of June until the last of August would be an eternity. "T'm going to the mine for the summer, Charles, and Jimmy's going to do the assessment work that needs to be done to keep the property." There was a tone of finality to her words. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS ¢¢ TIMMY'S just a kid, he can't. Tell you what. I'll look around for someone you can hire." "No, Charles, we can manage fine. Everything's been arranged." She couldn't tell him there was no money with which to hire someone. David's insurance would be enough to live on fairly comfortably, but there would be no money for such extras. "Jim's fourteen now, and he's been going with his father every summer since he was nine. He says he knows what to do." 'Tears were threatening, but she made herself go on. "I... I've got to let him try." Charles was the silent one now. Then he said, "Marian, I'm going to miss you I had some plans...." Marian's heart warmed. Charles had never mentioned anything before about the two of them. "It's too soon for plans, Charles," Marian told him, and a wave of helplessness came over her. "But there isn't time... You're going.... I know I'm saying this badly, but, Marian, you need someone we both do." Yes, she needed someone. She felt so lonely and lost this last year. She was thirty-four, and that should be old enough to take care of herself, but she had always been so dependent. David had been so good to her... Had seen to everything... Had done the worrying for both of them. 'True, she had been alone each summer, but she had been able to cope with being alone in the city, with all the conveniences at her fingertips. If only he hadn't spoiled me so, she thought. "T can't bear to have you and the children go away," Charles was say- 485 ing. "How will you manage there in the wilderness?" Marian smiled to herself. "It isn't a wilderness. It's only seventeen miles from a little community." There she went again.... Only seventeen miles that same stretch of road had seemed like a thousand miles to her when she had honeymooned there fifteen years ago, as Mrs. David Morgan. She had wanted to go to a fine hotel in some large city or to a beach resort, and though she had tried to hide her disappointment, David had known, and that had been the last time he had taken her any place she had not wanted to go. "How will you manage?" Charles was asking again. And she couldn't answer him, dared not let herself think about how she was going to manage. "Thanks, Charles, for being concerned, and for caring..." her voice stopped. It was nice to have someone care. Maybe if he had said something sooner, but now her plans had been made. Aakian thought back. Charles Neering had moved into the ward about seven years ago, when his wife died. His grown daughter had come and stayed with him to help him adjust. Then, when she had to go back East to finish her schooling, he was left alone. He kept busy with his work and _ his Church duties, though, and was always on hand whenever anyone needed him. And since David's accident, he had been the rock of Gibralter to Marian and her family. But the memory of David was still too vivid to her. They had had such a beautiful life together, begin- 486 ning with their temple marriage, and they had six wonderful children. Charles was a city dweller, as Marian was, and David loved the mountains. If only she had gone with him back to Montana each summer.... But it was too late for regrets. She could only try to make it up to him, somehow, by teaching his children to love the things he had loved... By taking Jimmy back. "When are you leaving?" "In the morning... On the 8:15 train." "Is someone meeting you in Montana?" "Jim knows the stationmaster. He sent him a letter.' She tried to sound casual, as though she crossed two states with six children every day in the week, but she couldn't remember exactly what Jim had said they would do when they got there. "Tl come by and take you to the station," he offered. "Thanks, I was wondering what to do, now that we have no car." "TU bring the pick-up," he said, but she knew he was thinking, see, you can't even make it to the station without help., "Thanks," was all she could say. She hung up, wearily. "Mommy." It was Jill waking from her nap. "What are we doing? Our house is all messed up." Marian picked up the chubby three-year-old and nestled her nose in the warm little neck. "I know it is, sugar. Mommy's packing." 'Then she thought, oh, darling, how am I going to manage in the wilderness? Quickly she busied herself so the tears would not start. She wrapped the household items, mostly wedding gifts, and packed them away as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 She had had to pack away her life with David. The screen door banged, and she knew from the eager footsteps it was Jim. "Hi, Mom, how's the packing?" "Fine, almost through now." He is smiling... His old, eager smile, thought Marian. It's good to have him smile like that again. "Where're we going to put all these trunks and boxes?" He was standing in the middle of the room with his hands on his hips, looking around him. "We're going to take these boxes with us, and Petersons said we could use that little room in the basement to store the rest. He will put a lock on the door for me. How was the last day of school?" "Fine... Good marks in everything.... I'm sure glad Petersons are moving in to take care of the place. When will their house be finished?" "The last of August." "Works out just night.... Shall I take these things down now?" "Not yet. I want to label them so I'll know where everything is." "Mom," Jimmy put his hand on her shoulder, "is something wrong? You look worried." Marian looked up into the solemn young face. "Jimmy, I'm not worried, it's just that, that 'm not exactly the out-door type.... There will be so many things to get used to." "No, there won't, Mom. It will be fun, you just wait. The air ls so well, so and the green everywhere... The kids will love it." "Yes, I know they will." All but Sue, thought Marian. She's so much like me. Although her twelve-year- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS old daughter had not said much, Marian knew she was full of apprehensions. She had put off talking to Sue too long, hadn't quite been able to trust herself yet. "How're we going to get to the station? We're sure taking a lot of things." Jim shook his head. "Charles is coming in his pickup." Marian saw the look that briefly shadowed Jim's face. For a moment she was afraid he was going to say something, but he didn't, and Marian was glad. HE door banged again and Jed yelled, "Mom. There will, too, be bears, won't there?" "Oh, sure, and mountain lions, and even snakes." 'This remark from Ted was meant to be funny, but it brought a wail from Jill. Jed, the other half of Ted (that's what David always said about the ten-yearold twins), picked Jill up and assured her that Ted was only kidding. Marian felt she needed reassuring, along with the baby. "Mommy, you said it would be fun going to Montana. Will it be fun if there are snakes and bears?" Six-year-old 'Tommy's eyes were excited. Marian hugged him to her and changed the subject. "Did everyone pass?" The chorus of assent drowned out the sound of the door this time, and Marian would not have known Sue was home, but she caught sight of the blue skirt slipping around the hall doorway. Marian found Sue lying on her bed, tracing the floral pattern of the spread with her finger — outwardly resigned, inwardly in turmoil. Marian sat on the edge of the 487 bed. She wanted to take her daughter in her arms and comfort her as she used to when Sue was little, but she knew that would not help now. She smoothed Sue's honey-colored hair from her forehead and said, "Sue, I'm going to tell you something, and I want you to try to understand." Maybe it isn't best, thought Marian, to let her know how I feel, but I don't know what else to say. "You and I are going to have to be real brave, sort of like the pioneers. Remember the stories Grandma used to tell us?" "Yes, but all my friends...." "The pioneer women left everything, their beautiful homes, their families...." | "But, Mom, all summer. "That's not really so long. Come on, dear, when you act like this, you make it harder for me. And we can't let the others know how much we would rather stay here." "You mean you don't want to go, either?" Sue sat up. "Not really. I don't like to rough it. Guess I'm spoiled." They both smiled, and Marian went on, "I love to work in my flower garden, and I love nature, from a car window, but I'm just not a good mountaineer." "T'm not, either." "Then we'll have to pretend, won't we?" "T guess, only Kathy and the others have so many plans for the summer." Sue's chin quivered. "T'm going to be left out of some things, too. I'll miss my Relief Society meetings, and my garden club, and visiting with all my friends, and shopping, but I've had my subscription to The Relief Society Magazine transferred, so we can read? 488 the Magazine together, and we can work on our Remembrance Books, and write lots of letters." "Could we take our pillowslips to finish?" "Yes, and I can teach you to crochet. Now come on, honey, we've got to put supper on. I still have some things to iron before I can finish the packing." Iron. Marian inwardly shuddered as she thought of the two heavy black irons with wooden handles that had made enemies with her before. She could still see them on the back of the old, ugly coal range, which was all the three-rroom cabin boasted. She remembered all too well her first attempts at ironing her pretty honeymoon housedresses. And she dared not think about doing the washing for the seven of them on that old scrubbing board in the big washtub. AFTER supper, Marian saw to it that the children all had their baths. "Really dig into those ears," she told them, "it will be a long time before you can have this much good, hot water again." "Oh, boy!" cried Jed. "No baths all summer!" "There'll be baths, all right," laughed Jimmy, "but not in hot water." "Gee." 'Tommy unbuttoned his shirt and tossed it on the floor. "Baths! I thought Montana was going to be fun!" Just before Marian tucked the children in bed, they had family prayer, and somehow, she felt very close to the Lord. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 "He will bless us, Mommy," Tommy said, giving Marian a big hug. "T'm sure he will." She tousled his still damp hair, and picked up jill. "You like bears, Mommy?" Jill's eyes were wide and deep. "Only Teddy bears, darling," and Marian wondered how long her supply of courage could last. That night when the last-minute details were finished, Marian lay thinking, going over her plans carefully, to be sure she hadn't forgotten anything. She and Jim and Sue had spent the whole week planning menus and shopping. They had bought each child a pair of good sturdy shoes, and she had patched mountains of overalls, packed bars of strong laundry soap, scrub brushes, and disinfectants. She wondered if the sewing kit and the first-aid box they had fixed would be adequate. And she hoped Jim remembered correctly about how many sleeping bags, blankets, and other supplies were stored at the cabin. So many details... So much to think about.... Suddenly, the house was very still. Marian lay for a long time, basking in the comfort of her soft, clean bed, looking into the darkness. She thought about her beloved home, tastefully decorated, comfortably furnished. 'Then she heard the clock beating a slow thythm in unison with her heart. Both seemed to say, "Stay home, Marian, stay home. Don't go into the wilderness." She covered her ears with her pillow and, after awhile, fell into a fitful sleep. (To be continued ) Don Knight THE SAN JUAN MOUNTAINS FROM NEAR RIDGEWAY, COLORADO Prayer for the Fourth Generation Eva Willes Wangsgaard Father of all, from valley floor to peak, Lend us your loving favor and your ear. In strength of quake-hewn cliffs we hear you speak And under ancient cedars feel you near. We wander lost who were bequeathed so much From giant forebears who traversed wild plains Armed with two Bibles. We are out of touch With their humility, their faith and pains. Awaken in our sons the will to do The menial task with eyes raised toward your height; To call a neighbor, brother, help him hew A kingdom from a desert's obdurate might. Renew our strength to plant peace deep in earth Faith-rooted, reaching, worthy of our birth. Page 489 Mama and the Heavenly Father Alice Gubler mer sunset were spreading like cool fingers across the fevered brow of day. Summer evenings were a most treasured part of my childhood. Sunset meant homecoming time at our house; it was sort of an unwritten law. However, we could play in the lane in front of the house with the other children until we were called. My cousin Iantha and I were happily squishing the dust in the road between our toes, when a plaintive voice asked, "Will you two walk home with me?" We looked up. 'There was Julie, and my goodness, she was fifty miles from home. Well, at least a whole mile, because her house was the other side of town. "Oh, my, I can't go anywhere now,' I said, "because the sun is almost down." "Of course it is," she said, "that's why I want you to go with me. It will be dark before I get home and Pll be afraid." Iantha said, "Oh, come on. Let's take her home." "T can't," I protested. "Tf both of you go, then you won't have to come back alone,' Julie pleaded. "No, I can't." "All right, don't you go with me then," she said with a toss of her head, "but Ill tell you one thing, Page 490 jig? Long shadows of the sumif you don't, then the bad man will get you." "He won't, really, will he?" I asked. "He will, really," she affirmed. Julie was ages and ages older than I was. She was born the year before I was, and that would make her lots smarter. She probably knew lots more about the bad man than I did. I looked toward the house where mama would be putting supper on. She would be pouring creamy milk from a pan into the green glass pitcher, and she would put on a plate with a hundred slices of bread on it — well a lot of slices anyway, because it took lots of bread for all of us. When we sat down to eat bread and milk and fruit at nights we circled clear around the big table that Uncle Jake had built for us. You see there were five sisters and mama and papa and a little baby brother, with curly hair, who was the cutest baby in the world, and Grandma Isom. Grandma always fussed over me because I was named for her, but I worried her, too. She would say, "My lands, how that child exaggerates!" I always wondered what she meant. I had the urge to run fast into the house where the family was, before Julie could say another word, but I didn't. "We'd better hurry, Iantha, and take Julie home," I said, so the three MAMA AND THE HEAVENLY FATHER of us took hold of hands and pattered down the lane. I was the littlest and the youngest, and I wished they would let me walk in the middle, but they didn't. Julie got the middle spot, and as we walked on each side of her to protect her, she told us spooky tales of things that really, really happened to people who lived right close around. USK was turning into thick black velvet as we scooted along through the tunnel of trees to Julie's house. When we came to her gate we stood under the climbing trumpet vines. Julie whispered, "And now, because you had to be coaxed, and didn't come with me when I first asked you, I'm going to tell you one thing more. The bad man is going to get you anyway. He won't get you until the first night you sleep away from home." I pulled away and grabbed Iantha's hand, and in utter fright, we sped down the lane and home. I slipped quietly into the welcome light of the living room. Papa said, "This is a fine time to be coming home to supper." The table was cleared already, and my sisters were washing the dishes. Mama was humming a tune as she kept finding more dishes for my sisters to do. Mama could always find more dirty dishes, even where there weren't any, almost. But you should have heard her sing. She hummed prettier than anybody; soft and clear and sweet. Her cheeks were always pink, too, the kind of pink that didn't scrub off and that made her look special. I looked at her, and I wanted to run to her and tell her my whole 491 miserable story, but Julie had said the bad man would get me just as soon as I told. I stood in the kitchen by the stair door feeling awfully little.. No one paid any attention to me. The kitchen began to shimmer in front of my eyes and I felt my chin quiver, so I climbed the stairs around the turn and wiped my eyes and hoped no one could see me. Papa was jouncing Willie, our baby brother, on his knee and singing, "A chicken went to bed but it was no use, roll Jordan, roll." Papa thought Willie was a mighty important baby because he was our only boy and we already had six girls," I guessed I'd better get down off that stairway and go where everybody was. Grandma was reading the Deseret News and shaking her head every little while and saying, ""T'sk, tsk, tsk, what a shame!" My sister Mildred got out her paper dolls that she had cut from the catalog and asked me to come and play with her. Mildred was always good to me. Mama came in, sat down at the organ, and began softly to chord, and Papa sang "The Bowery." Everybody acted as if nothing was wrong. My goodness! You would think they couldn't help but know something terrible was going to happen to me! Morning came, and a flock of quarreling sparrows, tumbling along the fence in the currant bushes, woke up the sun. I went into the garden with my sisters to pull weeds out of the carrot and turnip row. The terror of last night seemed like a bad dream to be forgotten, until Mildred, yanking on a fist full of 492 grass, said, "I wish Mama would let us go to Oak Creek to see Grandmother Crawford." Oh my! Why did she say that? Julie's dire prediction loomed before me like a horrible apparition. I couldn't go anywhere! Not ever! All the rest of my life I would have to stay in Hurricane! Thought of Oak Creek and Grandmother and Aunt Emma. Oak Creek was the prettiest place in the whole world, except for the ranch at Kolob. I closed my eyes, and I could see the high pink and creamcolored canyon walls, and hear the soft swish of the Virgin River through the trees. 'There was always a cool canyon breeze that carried the fragrance of box elder and cottonwood. My heart felt all twisted with longing. 'There was no place so good as Grandmothers home in _ the summer. She let us gather eggs in the barn, and we could always find a handful of sweet, everbearing strawberries in her garden, and she had yellow currants. We had only black ones at home. The cookies she made were big and_ golden brown, all sprinkled with sugar and nutmeg. 'They were as much a part of being at Grandmother's as the blue willowware dishes in her cupboard. Aunt Emma was a part of Grandmother's home, too. She would let us play with her little wooden dishes, and her tiny little clock, and she had some angels that twirled on a spindle that made chimes ring. She reminded me of those angels. She smiled when she spoke, and it was always of happy things she told us, and her dark eyes would shine. Her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 voice sounded like music that sort of belonged with Oak Creek and the gentle canyon breeze. I wished Mildred hadn't thought of Oak Creek! Mama just might let us go, if Uncle Louis should come down with a load of grist for the mill. She sometimes did. We would ride back in the wagon on the sacks of flour, and stay a week, sometimes, and play with our cousins in Oak Creek and Springdale. Our cousins were lots of fun. Uncle Louis didn't come — but wouldn't you just know it! — Mama and Papa planned a family vacation — the very first one in our lives! We were going out to Moccasin to see Aunt Lavern Heaton's family. Moccasin was out of the State even. It was Clear off in Arizona. Y sisters were as excited as if Moccasin had streets of pure gold. Just when I would start to get excited, too, then Julie's dark prediction would stare dismally at me. I suffered! Mama baked things in the kitchen that smelled good all through the house. Everyone was busy and happy helping get ready to go. That is, everyone but me. I helped, but I wasn't happy. When I smiled I just turned it on like a mechanical thing. I wished time would stand still, but it would not. Jesse Spendlove drove up to our house in Uncle Ren's wagon, and our bedding and grub box and supplies were loaded in, and I knew that this was the very last day of my life. But, suddenly, I decided to get just as excited as my sisters. It was great to be perched upon a pile of bedding with the other children in the wagon. We laughed MAMA AND THE HEAVENLY FATHER and talked, and guessed what we would find around each turn in the road ahead. Far out across the stretches of wasteland were gray forms racing wildly with the wind. I asked Papa if they were wolves, and he said no, they were tumbleweeds. Pretty soon we came to a fence that had a lot of them caught in it., Way out against the sky was a blue mountain. It was as blue as Pine Valley Mountain at home. I asked Papa if we would go over the mountain and he said we would tomorrow. Oh dear! If only I were going to be with the family tomorrow I could see what the rocks on the blue mountain looked like when you came to them. From home, Pine Valley Mountain looked as if it must have blue glass rocks on it, but it was too far away for us ever to go over and see. I wished I was going to live, because then I could gather my lap full of blue rocks and take them back home to show to Jantha. My heart ached with regrets, and I became engulfed in a tide of misery. The sun went down, and Papa said the horses needed to rest. Jesse pulled them over onto a flat place that Papa said would make a fine camp. He took off the harnesses and rubbed the dust off their sweaty flanks, and they snorted as if it was a mighty fine feeling. FE ate our supper around the campfire and then made a big family bed on a canvas on the ground. When we were all tucked in, I lay listening to the contented sound of the horses munching grain in their nose bags. My emotions swung like the pen- 493 dulum of a clock between fleeting surges of happiness and utter misery. These things were dear to my heart — the embers of the campfire, the sound of the horses, and sleeping under the stars; but all was not serene. I studied the dark bushes around us, and I knew that lurking behind one of them was the bad man, waiting for the folks to fall asleep so he could get me. This was the zero hour. It didn't matter what I did now. I could shout to the hills the whole tale of my misery if I wanted to. Nothing would make any difference. I crawled out of my warm spot between my sisters and snuggled down under the covers by Mama. There was no use to tell Papa, because he would only say, ""That's all a pack of nonsense. Go on back to your bed and go to sleep," but Mama would listen. "Mama, the bad man is going to get me tonight," I whispered. She gave me a little squeeze. "Of course he isn't," she said. "Oh, yes, he is," I insisted. "Who told you that?" she asked. I blurted out the whole, miserable story to her. She said, "Don't you ever let anyone tell you a think like that again. When things trouble you, always come and tell me. It is not wrong to tell something to your mother." She gave me a hug. "Oh, Mama!" I whispered, though my voice was choking, "do you mean I will really go to Moccasin with all of you?" "Of course you will, Patsy," she chuckled. Patsy was a pet name mama used when things were really, really all right. "Now go on back to your bed and say your prayers. You 494 must remember, the Heavenly Father is someone you should always tell your troubles to." She took my face between her hands and kissed me. Oh, my! The big load had dropped from my shoulders. I wanted to sing and shout and turn somersaults in the sand, but everyone else had gone to sleep. I crawled out of Mama's bed and the breeze fluttered my nightgown. I looked up at the sky, and there were at least two hundred stars. Grandma wouldn't think I was exaggerating this time, because the sky was full of stars. I wanted to tell every star that I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 was going to Moccasin for really and truly, and the bad man wasn't going to get me. Why hadn't I thought of telling Heavenly Father about this? I always said my prayers, but I hadn't asked the help of Heavenly Father. I breathed deep, and kneeled down in the sand. It didn't matter if it got on my nightgown now. The only thing I could say was, "Oh, thank you, Heavenly Father." I snuggled down between my sisters and looked up at the wonderful, beautiful sky. Each star seemed to wear a halo, then I realized that I was looking at them through a blur - of happy tears. Summer Evening in the City Mabel Law Atkinson Though tethered to the earth, I joy in flight, My wings a sea gull flying smoothly over The ponds, gay-stitched with mallards, meadow clover, Tawny with baby calves, where, yellow-bright With buttercups, the cool spring winds. _ Not trite, But new with freshness comes the call of plover From golding seas of wheat. At dusk my rover Eyes see a lane an open door... Alight How good a summer evening gives me wings; That childhood trailways carve the paths for age! What joy, as fragrance lifts from mountain sage, Companioning with dear, familiar things! One of the Pioneers Adrian Hansen HE dinner dishes were finished and the house put in order. A fresh baking of bread was turned out on a clean cloth, sending out a good, wholesome fragrance. Alice Homer stepped to the kitchen door and called five-year-old Molly from her play. "Molly, let's go visit Sister Jorgensen a little while. We will take a loaf of this new bread and a glass of jelly. Don't you think she will like that?" "Oh, yes, Mama, I'm sure she will. Pll bet she never tasted good jelly like that. I guess she never tasted many good things, did she? She's so old and her house is so funny. Is she a pioneer, Mama?" "Well, I'm not sure. But she has lived here a long time. I remember her when I was a little girl. Then I used to help my mother sew carpet rags, and we would take them to Sister Jorgensen to weave into carpets. You never saw anyone weave carpets, did you? She can't work hard any more and she gets lonesome to talk to someone." Mother and Molly soon walked the short distance to Sister Jorgensen's tiny, dirt-roofed, adobe home. A few flowers were blooming in the neglected front yard. The house was as old and worn-out as its lone occupant, but a cheery "Come in" greeted their knock. "Oh, it's you, Sister Homer. It's so good to have you come. Sit on this chair — so." Sister Jorgensen was so glad to have someone call, and she wanted to be sure they felt her welcome. She arranged the chair and dusted it hastily with the corner of her apron. Dear old Sister Jorgensen always looked the same — faded and colorless, with her few wisps of white hair gathered in a tiny knot at the back of her head. Her dimming blue eyes were trusting and childlike. The years had not dealt kindly with Marie Jorgensen. Poverty and misery had been her companions through years of struggle. Now she had ceased to struggle, and she let her mind dwell on the more pleasPage 495 496 ant years of her young womanhood, spent in her native Denmark. Alice Homer knew this, and so, after offering her the bread and jelly which were received with much joy, she looked about for something pleasant to say to the old woman. At once she noticed a picture of a beautiful baby dressed in the style of long ago. "What a pretty baby. Is it one of yours, Sister Jorgensen?" A glorious radiance changed the face of the old woman. Even her voice was strong and young again as she replied, "Yes, that is the first baby I raised. Maybe you will say it-wasn't really mine, but I will tell you the story, and then you will know what I mean. "T have told you many times how I joined the Church when I was a young woman in the old country. Well, I knew a man who had also joined the Church, and he had a way to emigrate to Zion. He said that he would get work there to pay for my emigration, if I would marry him when I arrived. I was glad to promise. Going to Zion was the main thing in my thoughts. "A year or so later, I heard from him and he said he was prepared to send for me, so I made ready to go to America. The only reason I hated to leave was the separation from my friend Anna. We had spent our childhood together and went out to work together when we were older. Anna had married and had a sweet baby girl, about ten or eleven months old. Her husband had died, so she was alone again, and we seemed closer than ever. How she wanted to go to America, too, as she was also a convert. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 ¢¢ A T last the day came for me to leave. Anna said that she would like to go to the ship with me and see me off. She took her baby in her arms, and we started out. She went with me almost to the gangplank of the ship, and, as I turned to tell her goodbye, she pushed her baby into my arms and pleaded, 'Marie, take my baby with you. If my baby is in Zion, I know I will get there some way. I'll work harder and save all I can. She is a good baby, and I know she will be all right with you.' "Then, handing me a small bundle of clothes I had not noticed, she backed off into the crowd. | "There was no time to reason with her or discuss the matter any longer. 'The bell was ringing, and all passengers were going aboard. I turned and climbed into the ship, Anna's baby in my arms. "All the Mormon emigrants on that ship were traveling steerage, as we were all of the poorer class, as far as money was concerned. That meant we had to carry our own food which, of course, was of the cheapest. I knew Anna's baby had not been weaned, and I wondered what there would be to feed her. Milk in any form was not to be had. Canned or dried milk was a thing never dreamed of in those days. So I prayed that what food we had would agree with the baby that I might take care of her as Anna had asked. After praying, my mind felt easy. The first thing I did was to tie a little lump of brown sugar im the corner of a clean cloth. The baby took it and liked it fine. Then I made a gruel out of oatmeal and other grains we had with us. I also fed her soup made from the cured ONE OF THE PIONEERS meat and some vegetables we had." "But, Sister Jorgensen, didn't she cry for her mother, and didn't she fret at being weaned so suddenly?" Alice asked incredulously. "No she didn't," the old woman went on happily. "The Lord answered my prayer. She went to sleep early every night and slept all night long and never disturbed anyone, and she grew just as nicely as you please and actually got fat. She learned to walk while we were on the ocean. She was the prettiest and smartest baby I ever saw. "When we got to Utah I married the man I had promised and we kept Anna's baby, so I had a family to start with. I kept the baby four years, until her mother finally saved enough money so she could emi- 497 grate. Such a happy mother to get her baby back — now a big, fine girl, five years old, who could even talk the English language. That seemed strangest of all to Anna to think a baby could learn to talk English. Now you can see why I call her my baby, too." "T do indeed, dear Sister Jorgensen. Surely anyone would say you were entitled to call Anna's baby your baby, too." As the mother and Molly walked home, little Molly said, "Sister Jorgensen looks like a pioneer, doesn't she, Mother?" And Alice Homer almost reverently replied, "Yes, she does, Molly, and I'm sure we can call her one of our best pioneers." To the Sea Gull Clara Laster Your wings still ride upon the curve of light, Leaving a burrowed lake among the hills, And crescent clouds have also churned the height, To form your nest above the rolling fields. Do you hear voices, as in days gone by, When you emerged to help the plight of man? Did pangs of hunger bring you from the sky, Or was it God who called you to the land? But you did come, a neighbor from the sea, To eat the crickets from the darkened plains; Until saints stood and felt the winds blow free, You were to them as sweet as summer rains. Oh, bird of God, we bless you with our praise, Stay flying there, through heaven all your days. The Pea Patch Doris Duncan HE branches of the willow tree by the bedroom window brushed back and forth in the morning light, making shadows on the wallpaper. I opened my eyes and watched the sunlight filtering through the green leaves. Helen's curly yellow head nestled softly in the huge feather pillow beside me, her breathing came regularly in sleep. I lifted the patchwork quilt from my side of the bed and slipped my feet to the cool smooth linoleum. The grass was still wet in the early morning dew. I stood at the halfopen window and watched the sunlight sparkle on the fresh green blades. The fluffy curtain billowed with a puff of spring air. It smelled wonderfully invigorating as I let it float around my bare arms and throat. I gathered up the dress and petticoat that lay on the chair and slipped my feet into the slippers beside the bed. Helen moved softly as I brushed past the bed. I opened the door quietly and left the room. Mama had already been up for hours. I had heard the hoe scraping into the ground since the first rays of dawn. It had a scratchy, chunking sound as she chopped the weeds in the garden. I wiggled out of the nightgown, letting it fall around my feet onto the kitchen floor. The fire felt good in the old coal stove. I stood for a moment with my back to it, feeling the warmth on my skin. Then I slipped Page 498 into the cotton petticoat and percale dress and ran outside. Back of the house mama was working in the vegetable garden. She smiled when she saw me, and straightened up from the rich, brown-dirt furrows. The hoe lay at the top of the row. I picked it up and walked down to where she was gathering pea pods into her apron. "Good morning, Sister," she said, "you are up early this morning." She stooped back down and began to gather the fat green pods into her lap. "The peas are filling out well," she said. I crouched beside her and picked up a vine in my fingers, looking at the pea pods clinging thickly to the trailing stem. I opened a pod and pushed the cool, round pellets into my mouth. They tasted good. Mama laughed and sat 'down in the furrow, spreading her apron out. We rested and ate peas from the pile in her lap. She took off the big straw hat and put it down beside her. Her hair was damp under the hat. It curled in little moist ringlets around her face. She loosened it from its pins and it fell in soft dark clouds down her back. The breeze played lovingly through the strands. I looked at the rows and rows of green plants lined up in the garden plot. Beyond the garden, the raspberry bushes were dotted with red berries, ready to be picked. Our back yard was huge and productive. Cur rants, gooseberry bushes, apple trees, THE PEA PATCH apricot and cherry and peach trees stretched their branches into the sky. "Getting about time for breakfast," Mama said. She gathered up her hat and bunched her apron, bulging with peas, as we walked toward the house. "Might be nice if we picked some berries for breakfast," she said. She stopped beside the strawberry patch, lifting a leaf here and there to pluck a ripe berry and lay it on top of the peas. "Tll get a pan," I said. I ran to the kitchen and picked up a saucepan from the cupboard. When I got back Mother placed the juicy berries into the shiny pan. I helped to fill the pan, popping the luscious fruit into my mouth at every opportunity. "You won't want anything to eat after all those peas and_ berries," Mama said. We walked back to the kitchen porch and sat down on the rough wooden steps. "I'm tired," she said. We sat and watched the neighbor boy driving his cows toward the pasture. The animals moved slowly up the lane, the boy walked carelessly behind them tossing a soft clod of dirt at their rumps to keep them moving. Helen came to the screen door, rubbing one bare foot against the other, sleepily. "Hi, Sister," Mama said, looking up. "Come on out and sit awhile." She moved over, making room for 499 the chubby youngster. "See what we found for you this morning," Mama said, holding open her apron. "The peas are ready to eat." She pulled the curly head into the crook of her arm, hugging the smooth bare shoulders. Helen picked up a pod and squeezed the peas out into her dimpled little hand. Mama and I laughed. What a happy day! 'The sun seemed to look down and laugh with us. "Here, try one of the berries," Mama said. The strawberry was almost as big as the little palm. The baby held it in her hand for a minute and then pushed it into her mouth. Mama scooped her up and kissed the rosy mouth. "I wish Daddy could see how much you have grown." She untied her apron and set the peas to one side, gathering the wriggling youngster into her ample lap. "Well, let's go inside and have breakfast," Mama said, standing up. We went into the kitchen. "We'll have to pick the rest of those peas today," she said. "They certainly have filled out early this year.'' She picked up the steel poker and began to stir up the kitchen fire. The sun looked through the window and winked at me. I curled up on the woodbox by the window and gazed contentedly at the blue cloudless sky. Summer was my very favorite time of year. Hand to the Plow Part III — Decision Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia, awaiting a train to take them westward. For a compelling reason, the emigrant wishes to stop at a small town, Bradys Bend, in Pennsylvania. After checking her ticket and inquiring regarding routes, the emigrant makes a momentous decision. Eliza, the teenage daughter, hears her mother say, "T cannot do it." T that moment Eliza thought A her mother looked just like a stone lion. 'The resemblance almost frightened her, for now she remembered a certain guardian of a doorway at a building near the emigration gate. It had been so big that two little children were playing in the shelter beneath its neck. Its two paws were outstretched to hang listlessly and deceptively fragile over the edge of a block of granite which made part of the regal entrance. The head of the beast had been raised as if listening to footfalls afar off. 'The eyes had had a facility, not often caught in stone, to follow one to either side of the steps and not really let one out of their sight. 'The shaggy mane had fallen in blanket folds about the front of the animal. A closer look had given Eliza the impression that a few cockle burrs might still be matted in the tresses of this king of the forest. When Eliza had first come upon this immobile giant she had shuddered. Its counterpart in the Page 500 jungle would be hard to escape or overcome. Eliza's mother looked that way right now. Nothing evaded her gaze; her children knew who was head of their migrant household. The fastness to which they clung was all-encompassed in their mother. And yet, Eliza had heard her say I cannot. It was like putting a dried leaf and a tree trunk together and expecting both of them to do the same job. After all one wanted consistency. Before bringing herself to ask what her mother could not do, Eliza reviewed the two things they could do and which they had talked about ceaselessly since leaving the rolling ocean. The first on the list was to stop off in Bradys Bend, wherever that was, and be reunited with the most dearly loved people they had on earth. The second on the list was to proceed by what means they could afford to a certain valley m the Rocky Mountains, no matter how far it was, or how long it would take, or what hardships should beset their way. Surely her mother could not have referred to either of these two long anticipated events. And of the two, maybe the second was what her mother talked aloud about. This war they were suddenly involved in, stories of Indians way out there a thousand miles just waiting for a triangle of hair on the top of her head; this funny railroad, with HAND TO THE PLOW shaky, noisy boxes on wheels which sometimes caught fire from woodburning cooking stoves installed therein for convenience of through passengers; this station that smelled of beans and dirt — perhaps now they could leave all this, find the village where Grandma lived at Bradys Bend and settle down. Eliza already felt happier just knowing a decision had been made. HE recalled a day in her seventh year, now some eight or nine years back, filled with tears and Welsh singing, and prayers, and parting gifts, and bundles of belongings. Grandma and Grandpa and all but one of her mother's brothers and sisters had set sail. They had been going to America. All would be well with them because they would live in Pennsylvania where the men could be coal miners as they had been in Wales, and where the women could find education and opportunity for their children. For nine years Eliza had heard nothing but the phrase, When we go to America. It had echoed in her dreams, it had been set to music, it had been embroidered on a pillow, it had been written in letters trusted to the waves and the earth. It was lucky, she thought, that they were at last on their way, for that young man from the Merthyr mine was taking a liking to her and would in due time want her to stay and marry him and let her mother and brothers and sister go on without her to America. Ah, well, there must be likely Welsh boys in America, and thinking back about it, she sensed that her mother had snatched her out of the Old Country just in time. 501 Eliza looked again at the lionlike woman, her mother. Her arms were folded, sort of encased by the ends of her shawl, her feet were close together, with the heels hugging the floor, and her head was bowed. There was a little saying in the family that if Mother sat like that, don't say a word. No one had ever said that word, so Eliza didn't know what would happen if one did, but she knew that something very important was going on in her mothers mind. Or perhaps it was her heart. If the latter, there would be more smiling and singing afterwards, but if the cold thoughts of deliberation took precedence, then there would be protests and tears, but still singing. Welshmen somehow express the Welshness within themselves by voicing that minor key in music which fortifies them in all trial. At sixteen one cannot grasp all the subtle colors of living, but one can see it happening and can guess that Mother will somehow give all the answers. Sometimes when the emigrant sat like this, she was formulating a prayer, and having previously mapped it out, presented it to the Lord in formal fashion. As her eyes were not closed, Eliza could not tell at what stage of thought or plan or supplication her mother was engaged in. HE moment drew itself out. Mother still sat as if playing statue. Little Sannie flung an arm across Eliza's shoulder and_ lifted herself from the cozy lap on which she had slumbered. 'Through the station door Eliza saw her three brothers bounding back along the tracks, each with giant strides along 502 the ties. As they barged into the building they gave a wild, bloodcurdling yell. Nothing in Wales had ever sounded like that repellent, raucous yell. The ticket agent crouched behind his window and peered around the edge in terror. Upon seeing just three youthful Welsh boys approach, he steadied himself and called them to him. By now all occupants of the station were either on their feet or near the door with at least two bundles of property, trying to make good their escape. "Young men, come here!' the agent ordered. They gave each other a wide-eyed signal of let's see what we have done this time, and went toward the wicket. "Do you know what that sound is you just made?" he screeched. 'They looked at each other again as if to say, hadn't this man been around boys before, but didn't answer him. He found the answer quickly enough, and fairly blasted them to eternal punishment by saying between clinched teeth, "The Rebel Yell!" Then, gaining courage, and again becoming the informant on all subjects, which he imagined himself, he got the attention of all present. "Only men from the South make that yell," said he. "Only when they have a gun in each hand and a knife in each boot top, do they give that yell. Boys, if you don't want to be hanged or shot or taken to prison to starve and die, just don't do that again." There was not much one could say after that. Eyes that had heretofore been sympathetic to their needs, now averted themselves. The three boys cushioned their footfalls to the citadel of strength, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 which was their mother, and _ sat down. 'The emigrant unfolded her arms and raised her head to give each occupant of the station a long, long look. Eliza realized fleetingly that the one word which they must never say to interrupt their mother when she was contemplating had been given. Perhaps they would live to regret the sound of that threatening, blood-curdling shriek. It had whiplashed their ears and their souls. Imperceptibly, the travelers gained courage and now wanted to appear as if the incident was of no value. They arranged their baggage in neater rows, gave a stale biscuit to the youngest babies, and started to talk to each other in whispers which grew in volume as confidence was gained. Finally, a buzzing of words was manifest and the hive of bees was at its usual pitch and activity. In the resumed noise, the Welsh family grew less conspicuous. Obviously, if their mother had come to any decision since talking to the agent, now was the time to make her statement before any more harm could be done. She motioned her brood closer and, looking especially at Eliza, said, "I was just saying I cannot do it." There is no surer way to get attention than by such a simple statement. 'The boys looked alert to the event. Sannie didn't really care, such is six years of being the littlest and pampered at that. Eliza felt quite superior, having had a preview and having come to the wise conclusion that now they could leave this turmoil of emigration and go to Bradys Bend and live in peace and plenty, surrounded by all their kith and kin. HAND TO THE PLOW One boy asked, "Can't do what, Mother?" "We cannot go to Bradys Bend." If the boys had stood up and given, again, that Rebel Yell, no one of the five would have been more startled. Eliza suddenly wanted to cry. She pressed her fingers over her mouth so no one could see her lips tremble. Eddie, the seventeen-year-old, just opened his mouth and forgot to close it. William and David actually groaned. Now, for sure, their mother had lost her mind.. One of them leaned toward her and grasped her sleeve, just as though he could stop her from further considering this most horrible of decisions. Somehow, they thought, they could try to dissuade her. Let's try, they thought. First they barraged her with questions. Is it so far to the Bend that we haven't time? The man that sells the tickets said that it is only twentyfive miles as the crow flies to where Grandma lives, after we reach Pittsburgh, and we could walk that far in two days, even carrying our bundles, if we had to. Just think, two days, and we can hear Grandpa call our names, feel the warm comfort of loving arms, and stand about answering and asking and singing and loving all those whom we have never really expected to see in this life again. Just think, no more cooking in a train, no more seeing only strangers. No more to explain that the Church had called them and they were answering. Just think, just think. "I have thought," she said quietly. "I have thought about my little 503 brother who used to work in the mines at the age of ten, side by side with my father, just so they could save enough money to come to America. I want to see him. I have thought about my older sister, surely now a grandmother, who was as a mother to me when others came first for our mother's care. I have thought about little Gwennie who was so gentle that she never ventured from our hearth fires and never found a mate. I can still hear big William sing as he rose in the mine hoist each night and I remember that, as he neared home, his voice drew children and men and women to him and they joined him in song until the hills burst with beauty. I have thought of them alll." The children were quite carried away with this word picture painted again for them by their loving mother. And what about Grandpa? And Grandma? 'The emigrant dared not speak aloud of her parents, lest in voicing their names, even, she should weaken in her resolve. Their life in America, even in a mill town where they were still close to coal mines, was so marvelous and bright and full and prosperous that with each letter she had rejoiced in their blessings. 'Their hope, as well as hers, had been that some day she, too, would come to America and be with them forever. Now she was on their borderland. Now she could actually walk to find them and it would not take many days. Now, at last, the haven of which they had talked for a quarter of a century was just over the rolling green mountains and down a river valley. (To be continued ) Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or Att NatTIons" WOMEN WHO WIELD THE PEN: Of those dear sisters and frends who have been occasional contributors to the Exponent some still lend a helping hand and some who took great delight in the work have passed behind the veil. Eliza R. Snow, Hannah T. King, Sarah M. Kimball, Louie Wells and Julia McDonald have laid aside the pen, but are not forgotten. We still have Augusta Joyce Crocheron, Ellis R. Shipp, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Woodmansee, Mary A. Freeze, Ruth M. Fox, Annie Wells Cannon, Romania B. Pratt and a score of others, only most of them are too busy doing other things to give us even occasional glimpses of what they think and feel... And it is long since we have heard from "'Alofa," "Hyacinth," "Hope," or dear little "Gladys," or "Homespun". — Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN EMERY STAKE: President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all, was pleased to see so many present. Reported the labors of the Stake officers throughout the various wards, and of visiting from one society to another, encouraging the young ladies to join the Relief Society.... Sister Emma S. Woodruff said we were the most blessed people on the face of the earth. We should always be obedient to the priesthood. If there should ever be any differences among the sisters it should be settled among themselves according to the regular order.... Told us of the visiting plan also of encouraging the young ladies to join the society.... Read the minutes of the first organization of the Relief Society in the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, also of the meetings held in those days.... — Mary O. Miller, Sec. MAKE MY HEART BRAVE! Make my heart brave, O Lord! Brave for the loss of faces dearer grown; Brave for the battle that is mine alone; The glory unachieved I thought mine own, Make not my burden less; make my heart brave! — Annie Pike MRS. HORNE HOME: Hon. Alice Merrill Horne has just returned from Chicago where she has been staying for a month past, the guest of Miss Josephine C. Locke, former supervisor of drawing in the Chicago public schools. Mrs. Horne visited the public schools there and brought home a variety of drawings for comparison with our local school work. She met a number of the leading teachers, educators and artists of that city and attended noted lectures at the University of Chicago and the Chicago Institute of Art. — News Note A SURPRISE IN HONOR OF RETIRING OFFICERS: A very enjoyable time was held at the Montpelier (Idaho) meeting house... An unusual occasion owing to the fact that each of our honored sisters was bern in a foreign land, each crossed the plains in a handcart company and each was among the first to settle in this once forbidding valley. — Mary A. Perkins Page 504 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon TWO Latter-day Saint women, Mrs. Luacine Clark Fox, and Mrs. Berta Huish Christensen, have been awarded national honors by the Freedoms Foundation of Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 'The awards were presented by the Foundations President, Dr. Kenneth D. Wells, April 29, 1962, over a special program on KSL television and radio, in Salt Lake City, Utah. Mrs. Fox wrote the script "The Sound of a Bell," in which bells were portrayed as symbols of freedom, and the Nauvoo Bell was featured. Mrs. Christensen was honored for her series of poems, "Portrait of Freedom," exemplifying historic moments of significant import in the establishment and defense of freedom in America. EARL BUCK'S latest book, A Bridge for Passing, tells of her experience in assisting with the making of her novel, The Big Wave, into a movie in Japan; the changes in modern Japan, particularly among the women; the death of her husband at home in the USA, and the bridge by which she tries to learn to pass from twenty-five years of an unusually happy marnage to widowhood. HELEN THOMAS, seventh of ten children of Lebanese-American parents, is United Press International's "girl at the White House." With political journalism as her goal, Helen went to Washington immediately upon graduation from Wayne University, _ Detroit, and after some years was reporting, nationally, Department of Justice and other agencies news. UEEN JULIANA of Holland on May third celebrated her fifty-third birthday and the silver wedding anniversary of her marriage to Prince Bernhard. Six reigning European monarchs and many princes and princesses paid tribute in person to Juliana, who is much admired and respected, and to her distinguished Prince Consort. R. NANCY G. ROMAN is Chief of the Astronomy and Solar Physics Programs of the Office of Space Sciences of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States. Her work includes planning, coordination and institution of a comprehensive program of astronomical observations conducted from beyond the atmosphere of the earth by means of rockets and satellites. Page 505 O— > EDITORIAL —oO VOL. 49 ~ JULY 1962 NO. 7 A Sister to 231,174 Members ER face beamed with happiness. The apron enveloped her figure as she hurried back and forth, back and forth from the kitchen to the luncheon table, carrying platters of appetizing food. When the Relief Society Convention luncheon was nearly over and her work nearly completed, a few missionaries arrived to assist with translation for the afternoon meetings. 'They were seated at the vacated table. A quick glance at her face revealed nothing but delight. A pair of missionaries such as these had brought the everlasting gospel to her only six months before. No other member of her family had yet seen the light, but by its radiance her own life had taken on new vitality and become purposeful and joyous. It seemed a privilege to her to be obeying her Saviors injunction "He that is greatest among you, shall be your servant." To great numbers of women of many cultures and languages a light has broken forth out of darkness. Those who were strangers before are now bound by ties of sisterly devotion. Two visiting teachers go by bus from a house in one section of a city to a second house in another part, to a third home in the farmland, to a fourth home in a crowded apartment. 'The words "one of a city, and two of a family," are exemplified by their travels. One Page 506 visiting teacher, a convert of six years, is a schoolteacher, the second visiting teacher, a convert of two months, does day cleaning. 'Through the divinely organized Relief Society they are now sisters, more understanding of each other's hopes and aspirations than their former intimate friends. They are also sisters to 231,173 other women throughout the world. Were they all to meet together they would love and understand each other, for they are devoted members of the organization given them by their Eternal Father, and members of the kingdom of God. Many lessons of eternal import are fostered through the teachings and training of Relief Society. One, recently noted in a foreign land, was — that of respect for authority. The meeting had begun and the sister in authority of those present was directing. Suddenly, a second sister of equal position arrived whose plane had been late. She explained that the president, who was in the hospital, had asked her to conduct the meetings. Without a thought of objection, without a _ dissenting word, the first sister relinquished the authority she had of necessity assumed earlier. Each organization goes forward under the rules and _ procedures approved by the Brethren over the years. There is conformity by all. EDITORIAL In 1961 there was an average of over 1,414 new members of Relief Society added each month. Some had lived in stakes and had some knowledge of Relief Society procedures; others were converts to the Church and, for the first time, were glimpsing the advantages and opportunities of this greatest woman's organization. Its blessings are to be extended to every woman converted to the Church. This important _ responsibility weighs on every Relief Society member, not only on the officers. No two sisters would ever sit side by side in a Relief Society meeting without becoming acquainted and seeking friendship with each other as they would continue to meet. A timid newcomer may be encouraged to assume her new responsibilities by having her seek out every other new member. "Use them or you'll 507 lose them" is fraught with meaning of import. The joy of service which illumined the face of the sister serving at the luncheon table will continue as knowledge and intelligence continue to be poured down upon her and her Relief Society associates through their faithfulness. Happiness, the object of our existence, comes as the result of serving and loving humbly and obediently. 'The Prophet Joseph Smith promised Relief Society members, "If you live up to your privileges, angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." One privilege is to draw into the bond of sisterhood every Latter-day Saint woman and make her, in turn, her sister's keeper. In this day of phenomenal growth in the Church, this is the joy and privilege of every Relief Society member. —M. CS. Commonplace Beauty Susa Gould Walker The sunflower's claim to beauty, Depends on where it grows. It has no place in a wheat field, As every farm wife knows; But give me a brown jar and sunflowers, And you may have the rose. David on the low hills Margery S. Stewart Page 508 Jesus and the Land He Loved Christme H. Robinson AN ancient legend records that from all the seas which God created, he chose for himself only the Sea of Kenneret. This beautiful sea, the legend continues, was called Kenneret (Kennor, in Hebrew, meaning harp) both because the lake is shaped somewhat like a harp and also because the "voice of its waves is pleasant like the voice of a harp." Kenneret is the Hebrew name for the Sea of Galilee. It was around the borders of this sparkling, blue lake where Jesus spent his youth and young manhood. It was here in one of the cities on its shore, Capernaum, where he officially began his ministry. It was from among fishermen casting their nets in the Sea of Galilee that the Savior selected his first disciples. "Follow me," he said, to Peter and to Andrew, his brother, and to James and John, "and I will make you fishers of men" (Mt. 4:18-22). It was in Galilee where Jesus performed his first miracles, and from a mount, not far from Capernaum, where he gave the world his divine beatitudes. After his crucifixion and resurrection, he instructed his disciples to meet him at Galilee, there to receive the power and instructions to carry his gospel to, "all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost" (Mt. 28:19). Galilee, and the area immediately surrounding this country, was the land that Jesus loved! During his lifetime, as it is today, this area was one of the most beautiful in all of Palestine. The sapphire blue waters of the Sea of Galilee surrounded by green farm lands and rolling hills, covered in the springtime with colorful lilies of the field and, in the background, the spectacular peak of Mount Hermon, snow-covered much of the year, present a dramatic picture of natural beauty. Page 509 Nazareth, where Jesus was reared, is only a short ten miles from the shores of Galilee. From the tops of the hills into which the village of Nazareth is nestled, Jesus, as a boy, could easily have looked into the Galilean valley and could have seen the beautiful blue waters of the sea. During his lifetime, a number of prominent and impressive towns and cities surrounded the Sea of Galilee. Among these were Capernaum, Magdala (the birthplace of Mary Magdalene), Gergesa, Bethsaida, and Tiberias. HESE cities were on the ancient trade routes used by the Persians, the Assyrians, and Babylonions and developed even more extensively under Roman administration. 'The Romans were great traders. 'They improved the network of roads and used their well-trained soldiers to protect them and to make sure that shipments of goods and merchandise from these foreign lands flowed unmolested along these trade routes and, ultimately, possibly into Rome itself. From the heights of Nazareth, Jesus could look east a few miles to Mount Tabor—so rich in Israelite history. It was on the top of this mount, some believe, that Jesus' transfiguration, later in his ministry, took place. From the hills of Nazareth, Jesus could also look down into the Valley of Jezreel where so many important ancient battles had occurred. He could look on to Mount Carmel where the prophet Elijah had confounded the priests of Baal. From here, also, he could see into the land of Samaria where the fathers Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob had settled in Canaan and where they had built their first altars to the Lord. Also, here in Samaria, was the spot where, later in his ministry, Jesus would meet the Samaritan woman who had come to Jacob's Well to draw water. As recorded in the scriptures, he asked her for a drink from the well and then, later, offered her "living water," saying, "... Whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst..." (John 4:14). Nazareth was in the heart of history. In all directions and at relatively short distances from there, significant historical events connected with the Children of Israel, and with the prophets, kings, and judges had transpired. 'This was a wonderful place in which to live. A Jesus grew to manhood in the Galilee area, certain influences undoubtedly helped to shape his life and character. His mother Mary, and Joseph, were devout and dedicated Jews who lived in an orthodox Jewish community. In the Jewish family, the education of the children occupied a central place of importance. In this respect, Jesus, of course, would have been signally blessed. Both his mother Mary and Joseph were The Forum at Jerasl A magnificent Roman cit: during Jesus' time Page 510 450 a4 Ae: Wb a FO CS ao & wi. Agg fe sist me of,; especially selected as his guardians and teachers. His home life, as he grew to maturity, must have been beautiful and impressive. There would have been in the family an abundance of understanding, consideration, kindness, devotion, and unity. Undoubtedly, during this period of rearing, there were trips out of Galilee into neighboring provinces. Once a year, at the time of the Feast of the Passover, the family made the pilgrimage to Jerusalem, the City of David, the center of their family ancestry. 'To make this journey, the family and the party which may have accompanied them, could have followed the valley of the Jordan to Jericho, some 1,200 feet below sea level, and from there climbed up the steep and rocky Judean hills to Jerusalem. From Nazareth, this route would have been a distance of approximately eighty-five miles. Or, they could have followed the longer trade route west to the Joppa road and down the coast. From Joppa, they would have traveled up through the Judean hills to Jerusalem. This route would have been approximately 105 miles long. Traveling on foot, as they did in those days, and as many still do today, with a donkey burdened with personal effects and necessities, this journey would have taken possibly three or four days. It was on one of these trips when Jesus, as a boy of twelve, "tarried behind in Jerusalem." When his parents found him, he was "in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions" (Luke 2:46). To make the annual journeys down the Jordan Valley and up to Jerusalem, Jesus probably had passed through Jericho many times and was familiar with this community and its surroundings. It was near here, it is believed, that he met John the Baptist and was baptized in the Jordan by him. Although the exact place where this event occurred is not known, it is believed that the baptism took place at or near Bethabara (or Bethany beyond Jordan). 'This spot on the river is approximately six miles from Jericho and is also probably near the place where the Children of Israel first crossed the Jordan to enter into the Promised Land. (See Cover.) WHEN Jesus was growing up in Nazareth, the community was a typical, quaint Jewish village. Much as it is today, its buildings were scattered over three hills, with narrow, winding streets running in all directions. The community was unimportant and unimpressive. In fact, Nathanael, who later became one of Jesus' disciples, when he first heard of the wonderful works of the Savior, remarked, "Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth?" (John 1:46). In the section of the city where Joseph and Mary lived, there was the only well in the village. It was from this well that Mary, Joseph, and The beautiful Sea of Galilee with Mount Hermon in the background. Page 512 "thn hi f ane. Wv Aue te Se a prt ¥ ie | ek Jesus, undoubtedly, would have obtained their water. This well has remained unchanged down through the ages. Today, as in Jesus' time, it still provides water for the community. Women in their long, black dresses with hooded heads and veiled faces, carrying earthen jars on their heads, can now, as during the Savior's time, be seen frequently at "Mary's Well" drawing water. According to ancient records, the charm of the Nazarene women was greater than that of any other Hebrew women throughout the entire land. As for Mary, herself, it will be recalled that Nephi, when he saw her in a dream, described her as, "exceedingly fair and white most beautiful and fair above all other virgins" (I Nephi 11:13, 15). The trade of the carpenter, in which Joseph trained Jesus, was quite different, then, from what it is today. The typical Nazarene home was made of limestone and often consisted of a single room. 'The houses, almost completely devoid of windows, were covered with a flat roof made of poles, branches, and thick clay. The interiors contained little furniture, and the beds consisted of mats laid out on the floors. These types of dwellings required little carpentering and, consequently, Joseph and Jesus' trade would likely have consisted of making wooden tools, plows and yokes, and possibly, some household furniture. As there were no lumber yards, carpenters went directly into the forests, where they obtained their wood and brought it into their shops for working and shaping. S Jesus grew to manhood, he was faced with a language problem considerably more complex than we face today. The spoken language during this time among the Hebrews was Aramaic. This was a Semitic language which had its roots in Haran, possibly before the time of Abraham. In addition, the Hebrew language was still employed by the Jews and was the sacred written language. Moreover, in the neighboring Roman cities, Greek was the common language of commerce and trade and Latin was employed to a limited extent. We know that Jesus spoke Aramaic and that he understood Hebrew. Whether or not he was familiar with Greek and Latin is not known. During the lifetime of the Savior Palestine was under the control of the Romans. For administrative purposes, the territory was divided into provinces, as shown on the map. The area of the Decapolis was not a province but consisted of "free cities" originally established by the Greeks and allowed by the Romans to operate under semi-independent governments. Historians are not agreed as to the names of all of the Decapolis cities, but among them were Damascus, Philadelphia (Amman), Gergesa, and Jerash. We do not know, for certain, whether or not Jesus ever preached in any of these cities. A view of Jerusale today. It was an impressive city at th time of the Savior. Page 514 However, the scriptures tell us that at the beginning of his ministry, "there followed him great multitudes of people from Galllee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judea, and from beyond Jordan" (Mt. 4:25). The scriptures are also explicit in telling us that he visited some of these cities and performed miracles in them. Jerash, one of the most magnificent of the Decapolis cities, was located on one of the important trade routes and only a few miles from the border of the province of Perea. Jesus could well have traveled this route as he went from Galilee to Philadelphia and on to Jericho and Jerusalem. Consequently, it is entirely possible that he might have visited and preached in Jerash. (See Mark 5:20; 7:31.) Today, the ruins of this city are among the most spectacular and impressive in the Holy Land. Palestine, when Jesus lived and taught there, was a small land. The entire area covered by the Savior during his ministry would not have been much more than 1,000 square miles. His longest single journey from his home in Galilee could not have been much over 100 miles. Yet, from this small area, and from one whose teaching ministry lasted only three years, have come divine living truths and saving principles that can glorify men's lives, and which have laid the foundation for eternal salvation and exaltation. Galilee, and its surrounding area, is today a beautiful and impressive country. In Jesus' time, this land that he loved was truly choice and blessed. Page 516 SIDON TYRE THE GREAT SEA (Mediterranean) GALILEE Capernaum Magdala mt. Corme! *NAZARETH Valley of \ Jezree! Eo Mt. Tabor CAESAREA SAMARIA seayy VOpsof _ Shechem @ Jacob's Well"? JOPPA @ Bethel Y. Bethany n 9 JERUSALEM re) Bethichem » < «HEBRON « Beer-sheba Sea ' of Tiberias " Galilee Bethabara MIERICHO SYRI} Gergesa PHILADE (Ammi t &y v gz ly ARABI THE HOLY LA AT THE TIME OF J re ee ee Beauty's Bright Persistence Maude Rubin Once the wagon hauled its freight— Oak chest and box and bed, Cornmeal and axe and candlelight— Toward a far homestead. In one small earthen jar, Where darkness hoarded strength, A lilac-cutting, with its leaves, Through the dusty length Of that tortuous desert trek Through sand and storm to home. Now by this chimney's crumbled wreck, Still spills its bloom. Pioneer Woman Marjorie Reay She was a special breed of woman, different from me. God strengthened her in ways I cannot know. Could I but stand beside my sister of the trail, The difference would show. More hunger filled her eyes, as searchingly she looked Along the dusty, rutted trail. More iron formed her will, with a strong determination That would not let her fail. And yet, today, life asks courage of us, still. The works of faith in all a woman's ways Must carry her and all her family, without fear, Throughout these troubled latter days. Page 517 Quick Recipes Janet W. Breeze wit a little thought, even the most common standby foods can be transformed into tempting taste tantalizers! Try these recipes for busy days. Shrimp Chowder Dilute 1 can cream of celery soup with 1 cup evaporated milk and % cup water. Add one 4 to 5-ounce can of drained, tiny deveined shrimp. Heat. Serves 4. Super Burgers Brown and crumble one pound ground beef. Sprinkle meat with two tbsp. Flour and mix well. Add one can undiluted onion or tomato soup and mix well. Spoon onto buns for one of the quickest, easiest hot sandwiches you ever made. Quick Casserole Cook and drain one cup elbow macaroni Add: 1 can cream of mushroom soup Y% c. Milk 1 can tuna, drained "2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce Cheddar cheese shices 1 c. Or. Small can drained, cooked peas paprika Mix well, top with cheese slices and sprinkle lightly with paprika. Bake at 350° for 25-30 minutes, or until heated through. Serves 6. Corned Beef Hash Rina Pack a greased ring mold with two one-pound cans corned beef hash. Bake at 350° F about 30 minutes. Unmold onto serving plate and fill center with six scrambled eggs sprinkled with parsley. Serves 6. One-Bowl Meal Dilute one can cream of tomato soup and one can cream of pea soup with equal parts milk and combine. Add one 5-ounce can drained and flaked crab meat or tuna. Season with one tbsp. Butter; salt and pepper to taste. Place in baking dish and garnish with croutons. Heat in oven at 350°. Tuna on Toast Saute one medium-sized diced onion until transparent and golden. Add one can drained tuna, one can cream of mushroom soup, and % cup milk, and add pepper to taste. Heat. Spoon over toast, or if you prefer, spoon over baked potatoes. Quick Thousand-Island Dressing Mix equal parts of chili sauce and mayonnaise or equivalent salad dressing. Page 518 for Busy Days No-Bake Chocnut Drops Mix and bring to boil: 2 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Cocoa 2 tbsp. Butter or shortening "2 ¢. Milk Then add: % tsp. Salt % c. Peanut butter Y tsp. Vanilla Mix well. Then add: 2 c. Quick uncooked oatmeal. Mix well. Drop from spoon onto waxed paper and let cool. Yield: about 3 dozen. At Summer's Edge Linnie Fisher Robinson Now is the dreaming summertime, For grass is lush upon the hills; Before the harvest's gathered in Nature may. Rest while time fulfills. Man lingers out-of-doors until A chill creeps in — dark drives again; His steps are ever loath to leave What he can never quite explain. Some kinship to the world he sees, The part that speaks within his heart; A universal tongue he knows And treasures silently apart. Builder of cities that wall him in, Who, like a prisoner, must yield, Yet longs for that he does not name — Communion with the stones and field. Where all his dreams perceived in truth Reveal each loss — all he has gained — And feeds his ever-growing urge To seek and find the unobtained. Page 519 allied 4 receive is a dainty apron with matching place mats.. They dainty pastel, for the apron, and from one to three yards for the place mats, depending on how many you wa to make for each set and the size desired.. You can ma inches deep, or deeper, as desired. Gather the long ede and across the bottom. Now stitch your own croc Page 520 oh Needle Sao Sone Folethougiill will Kee « a Supe " "of Gifts on Hand. A Adelle: 'Ashby. F you are Steyited to a fica of bridal towel and wedding receptions each year, and have to count your pennies, you should look fo your needle and thread for | help. You can make a number of worthwhile gifts that will delight the heart of the new bride refed save you money at the same time. __!. One of the most pilar gifts that « a bride 'heal to. Are so easy to make that you can have several on hand. Just waiting to be _wraieey in. Tissue and tied with a sweetheart bow! I:, You will need one ad of linen, either whitell or-a only four, or you may like to make six, =. > For the apron, start with a rectangular piece - lin about 30 inches long (the length of the goods) and 1 on to a 14-inch by 4-inch band. (When doubled, the ban is two inches wide.) Now make strings about three inc wide, and as long as desired, with tiny hems devia, edges and across the ends. Make a tiny hem down the two edges of the af edging of, or buy some dainty lace. Be sure to ease lace as you sew around, making a couple of tiny pleats c LS \ 7; y da L\ Shaki}: Helen H. Allen—Historian and Needlecraft Artist f ELEN Hunsaker Allen, Tremonton, Utah, is never idle. Her lovely handwork represents varied skills which have been developed to a high degree. She has made hundreds of embroidered, crocheted, and knitted articles, as well as quilts, stoles, baby shawls and bootees, tablecloths, bedspreads, and beaded purses. She has prepared eleven Books of Remembrance for her immediate family, and has gathered sketches of forty-three members of the original Abraham Hunsaker family, together with family photographs and genealogical information, making possible the publication of the Hunsaker family history. Mrs. Allen has been active in Relief Society for more than half a century. She was a counselor in the first Relief Society organization in Tremonton, and later served as organist for twenty-five years. She is still an active member and subscriber to the Magazine, at the age of eighty-five. She is the mother of six children, and has twentyfour grandchildren, fifty-four great-grandchildren, and five great-great-grandchildren. Page 522 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes From the Field' in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Clara J. Sumsion SPRINGVILLE STAKE (UTAH), THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Olea Sargent, accompanist; Beulah Whiting; Clara Boyer; Marie Whiting; Henrietta Nelson; Eva Hone; Donna Packard. Back row, standing, left to right: Doris Elmer, chorister; Philda Finley; Lucille Johnson; Bonita Corry; Olive Kartchner; Betty Diamond; Irma Brailsford; Judy Tucker; Marie Webb. These sisters presented the music for the Relief Society anniversary party in March, and also for a sacrament meeting in April. Clara J. Sumsion is president of Springville Stake Relief Society. Page 523 524 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION Left to right: Arsula Olsen and Flavia Smith. Nina Beth Cunningham, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports: "Arsula Olsen and Flavia Smith, members of the Jerome Second Ward Relief Society, were honored recently at a visiting teachers convention for having served for twentyfive years as companion visiting teachers, and for having 100 per cent visiting teaching done during that entire time. '"These sisters are pioneers of the Jerome, Idaho, area, and were among the first members when the Jerome Ward was first organized. 'Their husbands served -as: ) bishops of Jerome Ward, and each sister Photograph submitted by Nina Cunningham has a son who became a bishop. These sisters bear testimony to the great blessings derived from visiting teaching for others, and for themselves as well.": Phetevraph submitted by Glenda Thompson ROY STAKE (UTAH), WEBER COUNTY CHRONIC DISEASE HOSPITAL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Glenda Thompson, President, Roy Stake Relief Society, reports: "There was an urgent need for spiritual stimulation in the lives of the sisters living in the Chronic Disease Hospital, several of whom had served in various capacities in Relief Society for many years. In December 1960, under the direction of Stake President Henry A. Matis, the first meeting at the hospital was held. "In January 1961, Johanna Tubbs was sustained as president, with Amy Wood and Mabel Bingham as her counselors, Florence Tull, secretary-treasurer, and Bertha NOTES FROM THE FIELD 525 Child, organist. 'The hospital sisters were very unhappy with the idea of having Relief Society only once cach month during the summer season, so spiritual programs were presented during the summer months. In October 1961, class leaders were sustained for the regular Relief Society season. No work meeting is held because a daily occupational therapy class is held for the patients, "At the present time, there are forty-seven enrolled members and a weekly attendance of around fifty. This work of love is very rewarding, and the spiritual uplift and joy that it gives the sisters is worth all our efforts." PSY Sree Photograph =< = LaVerda O. Lloyd = MOUNT JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), CRESCENT WARD FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT BIRTHDAY SOCIAL, March 13, 1962 Front row, left to right: Olga Lancaster; Mildred Edgel; LaVina Harrison; Ellen Hardcastle. Back row, left to right: Donna Steadman, present President; LaVerda O. Lloyd, President, Mount Jordan Stake Relief Society; Vida Jordan. Sister Lloyd reports that all living former presidents of the Crescent Ward were honored at a luncheon and program. Each president was presented with a corsage, and a brief history of her accomplishments was given. Sixty sisters were served with a large, tiered, beautifully decorated cake serving as the centerpiece. Favors were gaily decorated jars of homemade hand cream. A skit entitled "Relief Society, Why?" was also presented. 526 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Photograph submitted by Ruby M. Blake HIGHLAND STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE December 3, 1961 Ruby M. Blake, President, Highland Stake Relief Society, reports: "Singing Mothers from the six wards of Highland Stake presented music at both general sessions of stake conference in December. We are encouraging the wards to keep their Singing Mothers choruses active and to participate in other stake and ward functions. "Stake chorister Ella Gale directed the chorus, with Jeannette Demars as pianist, Darlene Walker at the organ, and Maxine Hill, Linda Kemp, and Oletta Cummings as violinists." Photograph submitted -by Alpha M. Richins SUMMIT STAKE (UTAH), HENEFER WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED FOR ACHIEVING A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR EIGHT YEARS, February 26, 1962 Front row, left to right: Alpha M. Richins, President, Summit Stake Relief Society; Vera B. Brown, First Counselor; Violet Ovard,; Mable Winters; Susannah Fowler; Rita F. Ovard, Second Counselor, Summit Stake Relief Society; Susie Church; Belva Nowling; Veda F. Brooks, President, Henefer Ward Relief Society; John F. Hobson, President, Summit Stake. Second row, left to right: Elva Richins, visiting teacher message leader, Summit Stake; Ellen Dawson; Ruby Dearden; Elthera Stephens; Grace Jones; Inez Eakins; Erma Richins; Maina Dearden. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 527 Third row, left to right: Irene Rowser; Wilhelmina Dearden; Maxine Wright; Beth Fawcett; Ethel Taylor; Cheltina Anderton; Margaret Richins, visiting teacher message leader, Henefer Ward; Leana Tweed; Clarine Fawcett. Sister Richins reports: "We were very pleased with the convention and luncheon, and we feel it was an inspiration to all present. Our theme was 'I now turn the key in your behalf, in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth.' "Our invitations, favors, table decorations, and program were all in keeping with the theme. Elva F. Richins presented a tribute to visiting teachers. She paid special tribute to twenty-one sisters for their many years of service, and to six young mothers, just starting to teach. President Alpha M. Richins paid honor to Henefer Ward visiting teachers for having eight years of 100 per cent visiting teaching. They were presented a gift by Stake President John F. Hobson, who gave an inspirational talk on the responsibilities of visiting teaching. "Other wards in our stake honored were: Coalville Ward, with seven years of 100 per cent visiting teaching; Wanship Ward, with six years; Coalville Second Ward, with two years. Hoytsville Ward had 99% for the past year, Upton Ward 88%, and Echo Branch 67%." Shad Photograph submitted Ss by ey gE Peal HILLSIDE STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), MOUNTAIN VIEW THIRD WARD OIL PAINTING PROJECT, SUMMER 1061 Left to right: Laura Elkins; Carlie Shurtliff; Vonda T. Richardson, President, Mountain View Third Ward Relief Society; Oletta Cummings; Adriana Zappy. Emily Woffinden and Belle Thomson were unable to be in the picture. Neva E. Paul, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports that this oil painting class was planned as a project for the summer of 1961. "The group met once a week for approximately three months. The paintings completed by the group, as well as other hobbies developed during the summer, were displayed at the opening social in the fall. It was felt that the class was a success. Approximately thirty paintings were completed by the seven women attending." 528 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Photograph submitped by Martha Scoresby EAST IDAHO FALLS STAKE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 1961 Martha Scoresby, President, East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group sang at our quarterly conference held in November 1961. We are very proud of the splendid work that they did to help make the conference the beautiful spiritual meeting it was. "The Education Counselor of the East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society is Lucile Harmon; Work Director Counselor, Beth Olsen; Secretary-Treasurer, Bernice Decker. The chorister and organist who were responsible for the fine chorus are Wanda Parker and Madge Johnson, respectively." <7. Photograph submitted by Mary S. Grasteit ORANGE COUNTY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING CONCERT, March 16, 1962 Stake officers seated front row, beginning fourth from the left, left to right: Jane Gudmundsen, organist; Venna Black, chorister; Lois B. Anderson, Secretary-Treasurer; Mary S. Grasteit, President; Ruth M. Bell, First Counselor; Pearl C. Dean, Second Counselor. Sister Grasteit reports: "Our Orange County Stake Singing Mothers presented a spring concert, using the theme 'Let There Be Song,' on March 16, 1962, at the Fullerton Ward chapel. Also appearing with the chorus, as guest artist, was Dawn Adams Phelps, well-known concert violinist from the Los Angeles area. The numbers ranged from hymns to light opera, and were enjoyed by approximately 550 people. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 529 "There are sixty-eight Singing Mothers in our chorus who have been practicing since last fall for this event. 'These are the mothers of 203 children, 109 of whom are school age, and ninety-four of pre-school age. We furnished nursery care during the practices and cared for as many as seventy-five children, and never less than fifty. 'The infants in arms were cared for in the various homes. "This was an outstanding musical event for which we have received much praise and are gratefully proud. 'The chorus plans further appearances for stake conference and Relief Society convention." Photograph submitted by Ethel O. Jen KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETIES MAKE LEARNERS' QUILTS sen Left to right: Vivian Averett, Second Counselor; Dorothy Brown, work meeting leader; Ethel O. Jensen, President, Kolob Stake Relief Society; Maude Neilson, First Counselor. Sister Jensen reports: "In aneffort to teach handwork skills to Relief Society women, we asked each ward to make a learners' quilt. We have seven wards in Kolob Stake. The sisters were taught to purchase material, embroider or piece blocks, set them together, put the quilt on frames, and to quilt and bind the quilts. Through this project, seven beautiful quilts were made, with 163 women learning, and there were 854 hours spent on the work. All the sisters enjoyed the project, and they all wanted to know when we are going to do more quilting. "We judged the quilts according to hours spent and the amount of participation. The quilts were the highlights of a hobby fair, where there were displays from each ward of foods, clothing, and all kinds of handwork. "Our stake officers are proud of the efforts in the wards, and we feel that the project has accomplished the goal of teaching this skill to our young women." THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 41 — The Center Place of Zion* Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 57; 58:1-14) For 'Tuesday, October 2, 1962 Objective: To learn that ancient prophets foresaw the New Jerusalem on the American Continent, and that the Lord's promise concerning Zion will not go unfulfilled. Background HE year 1831 was an eventful one in the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith and, consequently, of the Church. Among many important developments of that year, the Prophet had come to Kirtland, Ohio, for the first time. Within six months he was in Jackson County, Missouri, arriving there in July. With the publication of The Book of Mormon, the saints began to speculate as to where the New Jerusalem of which the ancient scriptures prophesied would be located. The Jaredite prophet Ether was shown many events of the last days, including the fact that the New Jerusalem would be built upon the American Continent. (See Ether 13:2-11.) Several centuries later, the resurrected Christ taught the same thing to the Nephites. (See 3 Nephi 20:22.) The Savior continued by explaining that with his Church established on the land of America in the last days, all of gathered Israel, including the Lamanites of that day, would build the city of the New Jerusalem. (See 3 Nephi 21:20-29.) 'The Lord said to Enoch, the seventh from Adam, that he and his city which were taken into the heavens would unite with the city of Zion on the earth at the beginning of the millennium. (See Moses 7:62-64. ) Interest in the location of the New Jerusalem was shown by many saints. One of these, Hiram Page, claimed to know the place where this holy city would be built. As a result, the Lord revealed that this location was not to be known then (September 1830), but that it would be "on the borders by the Lamanites" (D & C 28:9). *"Zion'" in this lesson has reference to the location of the city of Zion. Page 530 | LESSON DEPARTMENT In February 1831, the saints were told by revelation that if they prayed for information on 'this subject it would be revealed (ibid., 426 In the following months it was made known that the New Jerusalem would be located in the western lands. In preparation for this, the elders were to preach the gospel and build up churches. (See ibid., 45:64-66. ) At the close of the June 1831 conference held in Kirtland, the Lord said that the saints were to assemble in the land of Missouri. (See ibid., 52:2, 42-43.) In the middle of July 1831, the Prophet rejoiced with his brethren, who had long awaited his arrival in Missouri. Upon arriving in the "promised land," the Prophet felt to exclaim: "When will the wilderness blossom as the rose? When will Zion be built up in her glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days?" (D. H. C. 1:189). These questions were soon answered upon receiving Section 57 in July 1831. Section 57 and the New Jerusalem Verses 1 and 2 of Section 57 point out that the land of Missouri is the land for the gathering of the saints. Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion (D & C 57:2). After revealing that the center place of Zion was Independence, Missouri, the Lord said that the land of inheritance should be purchased "even unto the line running directly between Jew and Gentile." (See ibid., 3-5.) The Jew here is the Lamanite or Indian. (See ibid., 531 19:27; Omni 14-19.) In this sparsely settled land the saints were advised to obtain land by peaceful means. The remainder of this revelation gives instructions to several brethren whose appointment to these callings had been made in former revelations (namely, Sidney Gilbert, ibid., 57:6; 54:4; Edward Partridge, ibid., 57:73 41:9; 42:10; Wilham W. Phelps and Oliver Cowdery, ibid., 57:11-13; 55:4). The promise of revelation to guide the elders and members of the Church closes Section 57. (See ibid., 57:16.) On the first day of the next month a revelation was received in which the Lord set forth his plan for the Church in Missouri. Background of Section 58 As the Nephites knew ancient America to be the land of promise, so also do the Latter-day Saints know that within the greater promised land, the land of Missouri is "the land of promise" where the righteous will be gathered in the troublous days preceding the second coming of Christ. (See D & C 721-2; 45:62-75.) A preaching service was held the first Sunday after the Prophet and his party arrived in Jackson County when two persons were baptized. (See D. H. C. I:190-191.) The Beginnings of Zion Just before Section 58 was received, the Colesville (New York) saints, more recently from 'Thompson, Ohio, numbering about sixty persons, arrived in Missouri by commandment. (See D. H. C. 1:191.) Concerning this branch of the Church and its part in the beginning of Zion, the Prophet wrote that the 532 first log for a house was "carried and placed by twelve men, in honor of the twelve tribes of Israel." 'The land was also dedicated by Elder Sidney Rigdon for the gathering of the saints. (See ibid., 1:196.) From John Whitmer's "History of the Church," we learn that the saints pledged to keep the commandments in their new land. (See ibid., I:196.) A description of this part of Missouri at the time of the Prophet is found in his journal. (See ibid., 1:197-198.) A Message of Hope and a Forewarning For the saints who had arrived in Jackson County and for those who would follow, the Lord expressed a message of hope for the future, as well as a prediction of tribulation. These messages were directly concerned with the land of Missouri. For verily I say unto you, blessed is he that keepeth my commandments, whether in life or in death; and he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven (D & C 58:2). The predictive element in this verse is strongly present. 'The emphasis placed upon the two propositions stated — hope and also tribulation — is announced by the use of the word "verily," which means "in very truth." Although all men are expected to live the laws of God, as they know them, the Latter-day Saint is bound by acceptance of the atonement of Christ through baptism to keep the commandments. (See ibid., 18:42-43.) 'Throughout the scriptures, promises are made that the blessings shall be rich for those who remain worthy even unto death. In the revelation we are now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 studying (Section 58:2), it is stated that continued faithfulness is required even beyond mortality. That we shall be the same persons in the spirit world that we are when we leave this life, is a part of our knowledge. (See Alma 34:32-34.) In that day we shall all realize that happiness results from obedience to divine law. With counsel concerning the necessity to be faithful in tribulation, the saints were immediately informed that the land of Missouri would not then be known as their permanent home. Granted that the saints may not have realized the full import of the following message, yet they were forewarned: Ye cannot behold with your natural eyes, for the present time, the design of your God concerning those things which shall come hereafter, and the glory which shall follow after much tribulation. For after much tribulation come the blessings. Wherefore the day cometh that ye shall be crowned with much glory; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand (D & C 58:3-4). It was not long before persecution was heaped upon the saints in Missouri. Details of the future are wisely withheld by the Father that his people may look beyond temporary setbacks to their ultimate glory. (See D & C Commentary, page 334-) In a subsequent lesson we shall learn more about the reasons why the saints were persecuted. For the present, however, two causes are mentioned: first, their religious beliefs, especially concerning the restoration of the gospel with its gifts and powers. For example, the Manifesto issued by a Missouri mob on July 20, 1833, referred to the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints pretending to receive revelations direct from heaven and to perform miracles as the apostles and prophets of old. (See D. HC. 1:374-376.) Second, that in consequence of the saints' transgressions, they were chastened and not allowed to redeem Zion at that time. (See D & C 101:1-10; 103:1-4; 105: 1-6.) The prediction that the saints would pass through tribulation was fulfilled when they were driven from Missouri, then Illinois, and then to the mountains outside the boundaries of the United States. (See D & C Commentary, pp. 331-332.) The manner in which most of the early saints endured "much tribulation" is a credit to their faith. The testimony of President Young concerning his own experience could be said of many others:... We have passed through a great Many scenes, we may say, of tribulation, though I would have all my brethren understand that I do not take this to myself, for all that I have passed through has been joy and joyful to me.... I have, myself, five times before I came to this valley, left everything that the Lord had blessed me with pertaining to this world's goods, which, for the country where I lived, was not a very little (Journal of Discourses, 18:237). The ability of the faithful Latterday Saints to pass through tribulation or trials though they may come only as the normal experiences of life, may be attributed to the hope and knowledge that "the day cometh that ye [they] shall be crowned with much glory " (D & C 58:4). One can understand as a Latter-day Saint that the testimony of the truth restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith has given and continues to give an assurance that the Lord's word will be fulfilled. Without this 533 divine promise, many would find it difficult to endure to the end. Glory to Come Ultimately to all the faithful will come blessings of eternal life. 'There will be a happy reunion with departed loved ones, and the joy of eternal increase with its manifold blessings of dominion and honor. But the message to the saints of our time is that the inheritance promised in Missouri [Zion] will yet be realized. '".,. The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand" (D & C 58:4). "It must be much nearer now than when this inspired line was first penned" (D & C Commentary, page 335). This significant truth is found in the fifth verse of this revelation: Remember this, which I tell you before, that you may lay it to heart, and receive that which is to follow (D & C 58:5). The Lord has promised his people that after much tribulation would come the blessings of much glory. At the time, however, they were not to see the redemption of Zion. For us today, we may be assured that the prophecies concerning Zion will all be fulfilled. One of the rich legacies of the Latter-day Saints is to live in a period when the prophecies are being fulfilled. One important purpose of prophecy is to serve as confirmation of the prophet's mission and that the fulfillment will instil in the hearts of people the desire to obey the Lord's word. In the light of these purposes, what faith should the Latter-day Saint have in the future of Zion? Reasons for the Saints Gathering in Zion Several reasons are given for the commandment to gather to Mis- 534 souri. It is clear from this revelation that the saints were to lay the foundation of Zion. Regardless of what would happen after the saints began their work, the time would come when Zion would prosper in the preparations made for the return of the Savior to the earth. The redemption of Zion would come only as the people knew and fully accepted in their lives the reasons which follow: Behold, verily I say unto you, for this cause I have sent you — that you might be obedient, and that your hearts might be prepared to bear testimony of the things which are to come (D & C 58:6). The Church of Jesus Christ is divinely directed. Strict obedience is essential for salvation. 'The direction of the Church requires the directing will of the Father through inspired prophets. (See D & C Commentary, page 336.) In verse 6 we have also another purpose in that the obedient would bear testimony of the truth revealed through the Prophet. In addition to keeping the commandments as stated, the saints of 1831 were to be honored in laying the foundation of Zion. (See D&C 58:7.) The Prophet Joseph Smith records that on the third day of August 1831, he dedicated the temple site, a little west of what was then Independence, Missouri. As a part of this service, the 87th Psalm was read. When one thinks of the glory which will yet surround this place and the purpose of the temple prophecied centuries ago, he can well understand the Prophet's comment: "The scene was solemn and impressive." (See D. H. C. T:199.) The fourth reason for the saints RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 coming to Zion, as given in verse 7 of this revelation, was to bear record of the land itself. Another purpose of God in establishing Zion is given in verses 8 to 10 which was realized at some period after laying the foundation of that city, as pointed out in the D & C Commentary, pp. 336-337. The Day of the Lord's Power Further information regarding the glory of the Zion of the last days is brought to our attention in verses 11 and 12 of this revelation. The interpretation of these verses indicates events which usher in the millennial reign of the Savior. (See D & C Commentary, page 337.) The assurance of the fulfillment of God's word brings forth the Lord's last reason for the building of Zion. (See D & C 1:37-38.) It is that his testimony or law is to go forth from Zion to enlighten the world. (See ibid., 58:13.) The Future Glory of Zion | President Brigham Young in these words referred to the time when he saw the return of the saints to build up Zion in Missouri:... Before we were driven out of Missouri I had a vision, if I would dare to say that I had a vision, and saw that the people would go to the east, to the north and to the west; but we should go back to Jackson County from the west. When this people return to the Centre Stake [place] of Zion, they will go from the west (Journal of Discourses, 11:17). Because of the conditions which prevented the saints from building the temple in Zion, the Lord released the saints from performing this important duty at that time. LESSON DEPARTMENT (See D & C 124:49-51.) When the call comes from the divinely appointed servants of the Lord, the city and temple will be built as commanded for this generation (Ibid., 84:4-5). Due to the driving of our people from the land of their inheritance, being thus moved out of their place, they will return to build unto the Lord the long-predicted Zion. (See ibid., 101:17-10.) When this task is undertaken the saints will be led with power. In the meantime, the Lord's people must become great and sanctified before him. (See ibid., 105:11-13, 31-32.) The laws and commandments, including the living of the law of consecration, will be lived "after her [Zion's] redemption." (See ibid., 105:34.) When the Prophet Joseph Smith first viewed the land of Missouri, his vision was not on the then disadvantages of that place but upon the greatness of the Zion to be. Here is his message: 535 But all these impediments vanish when it is recollected what the Prophets have said concerning Zion in the last days; how the glory of Lebanon is to come upon her; the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of His sanctuary, that He may make the place of His feet glorious. Where for brass, He will bring gold; and for iron, He will bing silver; and for wood, brass; and for stones, iron; and where the feast of fat things will be given to the just; yea, when the splendor of the Lord is brought to our consideration for the good of His people, the calculations of men and the vain glory of the world vanish, and we exclaim, "Out of Zion the perfection of beauty, God hath shined" (D. H. C. I:198; cf. Isaiah 60:12-22). Questions for Discussion 1. Give some of the prophecies relating to the New Jerusalem. 2. Why do you think the Indian is referred to as the Jew in Section 57? 3. Discuss: Before the expulsion of the saints from Missouri, the saints were forewarned of tribulation. 4. Give two reasons why the. Saints were driven from Missouri. 5- Why do you think the saints have been able to stand up against persecution? THE ONLY ROAD The only road on earth that is in no need of repair is the straight and narrow. — Shirley Taylor VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 41 (D & C 58:27). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, October 2, 1962 — "Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause" Objective: 'To demonstrate that the best cause in which we can be anxiously engaged is that of giving love and service to others. LTHOUGH history is full of dramatic and_ world - shaping events, there probably never was a period more critical and yet more challenging than the present. 'There never was a time when the need was greater for men to be "anxiously engaged in a good cause." The word anxious means to be earnestly desirous, to be zealous and eager. It implies particular concern for both the present and the future. If we strive earnestly and with determination to help others we are "anxiously engaged in a good cause." More and more of our world's thoughtful observers are now coming to the conclusion that the only permanent solution to our heavy world problems lies in the area of service, brotherhood, and genuine love for one another. 'The Savior, who knew the solution to all mankind's problems, expressed this basic thought when he said that loving the Lord and our neighbor are the two commandments on which "hang all the law and the prophets." (See Matt. 22:36-40.) Many of us these days are asking ourselves how we can be anxiously engaged in a good cause and thus Page 536 make our personal contribution in meeting the critical demands of the time. Some of us might be tempted to conclude that the little contribution we might make would be lost in the face of the enormity of the world problems. 'The answer to this was dramatically portrayed in an incident which recently occurred in New York City. Crowds in that city's subways were startled not long ago to see, along with advertisements for soaps and toothpaste, a car card displaying the 'Ten Commandments. The advertisement was signed, "Paid for by a friend.' In due course newspaper reporters, sensing the possibility of a story, tried to learn who this unusual advertiser might be. After considerable research, and some difficult detective work, they learned that the friend was an ordhinary stenographer. 'This was her personal project motivated by the desire to influence others for good. When she was interviewed, the stenographer said she had read some place that "sometimes a small thing can change the world." 'To make this personal contribution, she had saved the cost of the advertisement, $400, from her personal earnings. f | LESSON DEPARTMENT Her personal contribution did much to focus attention on the Lord's commandments.. In our own search for a good cause in which we can be anxiously engaged, we need not seek such a dramatic method as described in the above experience. Our good cause may be service to others of a more personal, less publicized nature. We can be anxiously engaged in a good cause by sharing the saving truths of the gospel with our friends and neighbors; by seeking to lighten the loneliness, sorrow, and heartaches of those with whom we associate; and by encouraging and strengthening those who are downhearted and discouraged. It has been said, "The greatest of 537 the world's heroes could not by any series of acts of heroism do as much real good as any individual living his whole life in seeking, from day to day, to make others happy" (Jordan, Wm. George: Self-Control, page 191). Ee us, then, never allow the sun to set without making sure we have done some good, eased someone's burden, "cheered up the sad, and made someone feel glad." Let us always remember the words, "There are chances for work all around just now, opportunities nght in our way. Do not let them pass by, saying, 'sometime I'll try,' but go and do something today" (L. D. S. Hymns, page 58). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 1 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part 1) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Tuesday, October 9, 1962 Objective: To show that successful home management begins with happy, wholesome family relationships. UR first home management subject is organization and _planning. Perhaps it will help us to understand the scientific approach to home management if we know about the beginnings of scientific management in industry. In 1880, Fredrick W. Taylor, after twentythree years of studying management, Stated his theory: "Efficiency is the end and aim of scientific management; it is brought about through planning, organizing, and learning to do shop jobs skillfully." Many countries tried out Taylor's efficiency theory and learned that it was lacking on two counts: first, the best results are not obtained from the worker if he does not have satisfying relationships with his work 538 group; second, a worker becomes dissatisfied and unhappy and leaves his job if he does not have some creative outlet. Our problem is, how can we relate the theory of industrial management to home management? Have you read Cheaper By the Dozen? If so, you have become acquainted with the remarkable Gilbreth family that first tried out these scientific ideas in a home sit- 'uation. On the foundation of love, an efficient management system was developed. 'The family knew the jobs to be done. They knew who were responsible for doing them; and they knew how to have a good time while they worked. 'The story of their family life, as well as their scientific reports of time and motion studies put to the test in washing dishes and doing other household tasks, provide good reading for the homemaker who wants to make her work a profession. Today, there are some well-defined principles of home management that can be recommended for any home situation. If they are followed carefully and adhered to until proficiency is' acquired, many dollars may be added to the annual income; and there will be bonuses or stay-athome pay that cannot be measured in dollars and cents. There will be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 the building up of a priceless family trust, a happy confident trust that rewards all dedicated home managers. To reap these rich rewards, the order of the industrial management theory must be reversed. Of primary importance in home management is first, a condition of happy relationships in the family group; and efficiency takes second plate. This means that a feeling of love and sincerity permeates the home and can be recognized by anyone who visits the family. Even though all members of the family are working on different projects, there is a feeling of togetherness. 'The interest shown by each member in the welfare of the others is ever apparent. Family loyalty is strong, and one sees a cohesiveness that makes the family organization the matrix around which all else revolves. And so, our home management theory begins with happy, wholesome, family relationships. Family values that help to make such relationships are described in the Family Values Test. Check yourself and family on these values and you will be better prepared for the next lesson, which deals with scientific ways of making your home efficient. Family Values Test Our family has: 1. Security a. The safe feeling of having enough money to pay our bills and keep out of debt. B. The peace of mind that results from thrift, wise use of resources, and a nest egg for a rainy day. Yes SomeNo what LESSON DEPARTMENT Our family has: c. The satisfaction of a high credit rating that comes from strict honesty and moral trust — worthiness in all dealings. 2. Health a. Well-planned meals, with all essential nutrients every day. B. A home that is based on love which feeds the heart and lifts the soul to meet each day's demands. C. A home that is clean and orderly and a suitable setting for healthful family living. 3. Comfort A home that makes cold days feel warm and hot days feel cool — where all have a place for relaxation, rest, and rebuilding of inner resources. 4. Privacy A feeling of protection against intruders, with each person having one place in the home that is strictly his own, even if it is only a small corner or a dresser drawer. 5. Friends A love of people and a sharing with them of family fun and hospitality, at mealtime, family nights, and on special occasions. 6. Convenience A home that is planned so that work and activities may be carried on easily. 7. Hobbies Special interests, such as music, art, books, collections, pets, or crafts which occupy much of our "at-home" time. 8. Religious Activity a. Family and individual prayers, blessing on the food, scriptural reading. B. Planning for Church attendance and activity. C. Study of ancestors — writing biographies, making Books of Remembrance and Treasures of Truth. G. Educational and Cultural Ambitions a. Enough schooling to help each member to live abundantly. B. Family trips and excursions to learn more about the world and its people. (This could be a trip to the park or museum.) c. A home library of books and records, with opportunities for home concerts and book Teviews. 10. Provision for Beauty a. A home made beautiful through creative effort. B. Attractive clothes to help us look and act our best (neat and clean). Yes Somewhat No 539 LITERATURE America's Literature Lesson 33 — Thoreau, Man in Nature Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495) For Tuesday, October 16, 1962 Objective: gift of life. HENRY DAVID THOREAU ALMOST everyone who has heard of Henry David Thoreau knows that he spent two years living in a shanty he constructed with his own hands on the shore of Walden Pond some few miles outside Concord, Massachusetts. And now as then the inevitable questions follow: Why did he leave normal society for so long? Other than verifying impressions of his being eccentric, Page 540 To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "'inexpressible satisfaction" with the what did he prove? And most pressing, what did it get him? The desperate publisher of Thoreau's first book A Week on the Concord and Merrimac Rivers, dumped on the author over seven hundred of the thousand copies printed rather than burn them, so poorly did they sell. Thoreau's Walden, a _ compilation which "sprouted" from his journals, sold less than two thousand copies before his death in 1862. Yet, in our century, few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world. While many giants of English and American nineteenthcentury literature constantly diminish, he who received scorn and neglect from his contemporaries, continues to grow in stature, influence, and challenge. Thus our final question to ourselves might well be to ask why this is so, and what our own age finds in his long-neglected pages that lay there concealed so cunningly for more than a century. Here two widely accepted generalizations may help us. First, many accept 'Thoreau as the most pene- | LESSON DEPARTMENT trating nature-writer America, if not all mankind, has produced. Second, no American has surpassed the power and subtlety of his prose. The following sentences reveal fully both Thoreau's all-consuming love of nature and the pristine purity of the out-of-doors as seen through his eyes.... Walden is a perfect forest mirror, set round with stones as precious to my eye as if fewer or rarer. Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth. Sky water. It needs no fence. Nations come and go without defiling it. It is a mirror which no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, whose gilding Nature continually repairs; no storms, no dust, can dim its surface ever fresh; — a mirror in which all impurity presented to it sinks, swept and dusted by the sun's hazy brush — this the light dust-cloth — which retains no breath that is breathed on it, but sends its own to float as clouds high above its surface, and be reflected in its bosom still (Walden, "The Ponds," page 195). Thoreau loved Nature, and by giving himself completely to her on her own terms, he felt that he could change and grow nearer the perfection which Nature best symbolized to him. Again of Walden Pond:. It is itself unchanged, the same water which my youthful eyes fell on; all the change is in me. It has not acquired one permanent wrinkle after all its ripples. It is perennially young,... Where a forest was cut down last winter another is springing up by its shore as lustily as ever; the same thought is welling up to its surface that was then; it is the same liquid joy and happiness to itself and its Maker, ay, and it may be to me (Ibid., page 199). Herein Thoreau reminds us that regardless of how brusquely visible nature may be roughed, her eternal identity is constant; she is ever young and self-renewing to those who can scrape aside irrelevancies 541 and commune with her. To those who will hear Thoreau out and come to him on his own terms, few writers are more challenging or rewarding. From 1845, when he went to Walden, to almost 1945, Thoreau the man has been so controversial a personality both to his critics and his would-be readers, that his words have not been read and evaluated on their own merit or in the light of his deeper intent. 'Thus we may justly say of Walden as Thoreau said of Walden Pond, "it is itself unchanged... All the change is in me." Before 'Thoreau's words could be fully appreciated, 'Thoreau, sharp-tongued yet tender, had to die, and also the false image of Thoreau as created by the influential James Russell Lowell, who by background and personal temperament simply could not understand him. To citybred, professorial Lowell a symbolic approach to nature was incomprehensible, and when, as editor of the newly launched Atlantic Monthly, he insisted on his privilege as editor to change some of 'Thoreau's carefully chosen words in a manuscript submitted for publication, Thoreau defended his integrity. The quarrel which followed emphasized the personal objections Lowell had _previously found in him, thus delaying a just and sympathetic reading of Thoreau for several decades. Thoreau the Man Outwardly, according to usual standards, Thoreau's life was barren. Born July 12, 1817, in Concord, he graduated from Harvard when he was twenty, briefly taught school but rebelled against dressing in 542 formal clothes and against beating his students into learning, as local administrators expected him to do. Aside from some few brief trips to Maine, Cape Cod, Staten Island, and New York City, he spent his entire forty-four years in Concord. Intermittently he helped edit the Dial, the mouthpiece of Transcendentalism, lectured almost annually before the Concord Lyceum and occasionally elsewhere, made _ pencils in his father's factory, surveyed, and performed menial domestic odd jobs. Ralph Waldo Emerson was attracted to the youthful scholar, who was able to read Greek, Latin, French, Italian, Spanish, and German. He saw in Thoreau a man of independent mind and of great promise. At Emerson's invitation, Thoreau served as hired man in the Emerson household while the famous writer and lecturer was abroad. Save for those rare occasions when his time was committed elsewhere, Thoreau walked in the woods and fields every day of his life, striding with a fierce Indian-like cadence which became his hallmark. It seems ironical that one who so loved physical exertion and striding through the woods unrestricted by trail or road should be afflicted by tuberculosis, yet so it was. During Thoreau's final months of confinement at home, when he saw lifelong friends passing by, he asked his mother, "Why don't they come to see me? I love them as if they were my own." Learning of his desire, his friends came often thereafter. As long as he could still sit up, he insisted in taking his place at the family table at mealtime. "It would not be sociable to take my meals alone." When death was not far RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 off, a religious, yet curious friend asked him, "Henry, have you made your peace with God?" To which Thoreau replied, "I was not aware that we had quarreled." His final words reveal his typical care in choosing words, as well as his sound wisdom: "It is better some things should end." An anonymous obituary notice in a Boston paper commented, "When we now look back at the solitude of his erect and spotless person, we lament that he did not live long enough for all men to know him." Emerson spoke of him in similar vein at his funeral:, The country knows not yet, or in the least part, how great a son it has lost. His soul was made for the noblest society; he had in a short life exhausted the capabilities of this world; wherever there is knowledge, wherever there is virtue, wherever there is beauty, he will find a home (Canby, Henry S.: Thoreau, Houghton Mifflin Co., 1939, Pp. 454-455). Some people, however, did not share his esteem. 'They felt him to be an educated loafer who showed no leadership or respect for intellectual pursuits as a college graduate should, but instead escaped responsibilities of marriage and society by his zeal for being in nature and studying her, but only to please himself. 7 But others respected and loved him. Whittier felt his books were the work of a genius, for "to take up his books is like a stroll in the woods or a sail on the lake — the leaves rustle and the water ripples along his pages." He always reminded a lifelong friend of "an eagle, ready to soar to great heights or to swoop down on anything he considered evil." For his superior insight and honesty, 'Thoreau's LESSON DEPARTMENT greatest friend and lifelong influence, Emerson, deserves the final words, as he recorded in July 1852: Thoreau gives me, in flesh and blood and pertinacious Saxon belief, my own ethics. He is far more real, and daily practically obeying them, than I; and fortifies my memory at all times with an affirmative experience which refuses to be set aside. On two qualities in Thoreau all agreed. Children loved him, so freely did he give himself to them. He juggled for them, drew his knife out of their ears, sang folksongs, told Indian stories, and regularly took them for rides in his boat and led huckleberry parties. Conversely, with adults Henry was shy. Harvard classmates recalled that when he conversed at all, it was with eyes lowered. He abhorred group socials, particularly formal calls on friends when all sat about stiffly amid pauses, bantering respectable cliche phrases, while really each hid behind the bastion of his non-communicating self. The Emersons claimed that he could not walk through the kitchen where ladies were present without blushing, and Ellen Sewall's refusing his one proposal of marriage did not make him less isolated. Perhaps Elizabeth Hoar was justified in saying of him, "I love Hentry, but do not like him.... One would as soon take the arm of an elm tree." Thoreau, Lover of the Ideal in Nature Evidently Henry was not unaware of his "faults'' as society defined them, for in 1852 he wrote of himself, "If I am too cold for human friendship I trust I shall not soon 543 be too cold for natural influences." He was the true son of nature who, according to Bronson Alcott, "had the profoundest passion for nature of any one of his time." Removing himself from all man-made distractions, he retired to Walden Pond, in his own words,... Because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to dic, discover that I had not lived. I did not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish to practice resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartanlike as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true account of it m my next excursion (Walden, '""Where I Lived and What I Lived For," pp. 96-97. See also Text, page 485.) No one has ever reduced life to a lower denominator than did Thoreau, nor wrested from one's existence in Nature a meaning and significance more sublime. "It is the marriage of the soul with Nature that makes the intellect fruitful, and gives birth to imagination," he wrote in his Journal in 1851, and no better proof of his statement exists than his own writing, afire with piercing keenness and apt image as he details his "inexpressible satisfaction" within himself once he realizes he is at one with Nature. In "Spring," a chapter in Walden, which was published in 1854, eight years before his death, Thoreau speaks thus: 544 We need the tonic of wildness — to wade sometimes in marshes where the bittern and the meadow-hen lurk, and hear the booming of the snipe, to smell the whispering sedge where only some wilder and more solitary fowl builds her nest, and the mink crawls with its belly close to the ground. At the same time that we are earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be infinitely wild, unsurveyed, and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have enough of Nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigour, vast and Titanic features — the sea-coast with its wrecks, the wilderness with its living and its decaying trees, the thunder cloud, and the rain which lasts three weeks and_ produces freshets. We need to witness our own limits transgressed, and some life pasturing freely where we never wander (Walden, '""Where L Lived and What I Lived For," pp. 317-318). While believing that "we must never under-estimate the value of a fact, for it might one day blossom into a truth," Thoreau greatly feared those who approached life and Nature with the scientist's objectivity, regarding all reality as fact only. For one truly alive,... The earth is not a mere fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit — not' a fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central life all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic. (Ibid., page 310). Earlier in Walden, from his essay "Where I Lived," he memorably specifies this grand theme, namely, that the ultimate good life is here and now, beneath our feet and within our perceiving eye, if only we can learn to sense its real meaning. How good is here-and-now, as seen by Thoreau: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweetscented herbs, that is your success. The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and indiscernible as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little star dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched. Thus Thoreau reveals himself in true dress and dream: eternally he is discontented, ever stirring up trouble among his fellows by reminding them of the sweet joy of existence which they, too, could know and experience, if only they would believe and aspire. Once again in a final quotation, Thoreau tries to pull man and prod him to soar above himself by seeing himself in Nature not actually but symbolically. The quotation is from the essay "Walk- 7 ing" which was published after his death. We hug the earth — how rarely we mount! Methinks we might elevate ourselves a little more. We might climb a tree, at least. I found my account in climbing a tree once. It was a tall white pine, on the top of a hill; and though I got well pitched, I was well paid for it, for I discovered new mountains in the horizon which I had never seen before — so much more of the earth and the heavens. I might have walked about the foot of the tree for threescore years and ten, and yet I certainly should never have seen them. But, above all, I discovered around me — it was near the end of June — on the ends of the topmost branches only, a few minute and delicate red conelike blossoms, the fertile flower of the white pine looking heavenward. I carried straightway to the village the topmost spire, and showed it to stranger jurymen who walked the streets — for it was court week — but they wondered as at a star dropped down. 'Tell of ancient architects finishing their works on the tops of columns as perfectly as on the lower and more visible parts! Nature has from the LESSON DEPARTMENT first expanded the minute blossoms of the forest only toward the heavens, above men's heads and unobserved by them. We see only the flowers that are under our feet in the meadows. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does Thoreau increase your appreciation of life? 345 2. If Thoreau's ideas and style could be simplified, should they be? 3. How do you account for the fact that few American books have been more widely translated throughout the world than has Thoreau's Walden? 4. What particular memories of nature do Thoreau's vivid descriptions bring back to you? SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 1 — The Meaning of Divine Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, October 23, 1962 Objective: the definition of divine law. Belief in God Is Basic N order for us to have a clear understanding of the law of God, to recognize his right to authonity, and to harmonize our actions with his wisdom, we must first accept without reservation the fundamental premise that God lives "... He that cometh to God must believe that he is" (Heb. 11:6). In Mosiah 4:9, we read, "Believe in God; believe that he is, and that he created all things, both in heaven and in earth; believe that he has all wisdom, and all power, both in heaven and in earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things which the Lord can comprehend." To accept the reality of God is an act of faith supported and sustained To establish in the mind the sacred nature of Church government through by available evidence. Evidence of the existence of God is found in two main sources: the first is in the orderliness of the universe and the earth we live on. The heavens are full of planets and stars moving in orderly orbit, each in its own sphere of action. The earth is teeming with the handiwork of the Supreme Being as evidenced in the movement of the earth on its axis, its movement through space in synchronized relationship to the other planets, the effectiveness of daylight and dark, the seasons of the year, and the extensive organization of life itself. All this was climaxed by the creation of man to whom God gave dominion over all living things. The second source is the evidence found in the records of sacred litera- 546 ture. The Bible is a record of God's dealings with man, including a report of the creation and the beginnings of man's conquest of the forces of nature. Supporting Scripture The Bible does not stand alone as the supporting evidence of the existence and reality of God. 'The Book of Mormon, a record of God's dealings: with man compiled by authorized agents on the Western Hemisphere, is another witness for the same great truth that God lives and that mankind is his greatest concern in the whole of his creation. The sacred records referred to above are replete with evidence of the reality of God. Sometimes their evidence is in the form of wisdom and counsel given for the welfare of man. Again it is found in the reports of his voice identifying his Son and giving approval to the plan of life and salvation as presented by the Lord: And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 3:16-17). Upon the Western Hemisphere, some time later, there was a similar happening. 'The eleventh chapter of 3 Nephi in The Book of Mormon is a record of the Eternal Father proclaiming the Christ. The people. Did hear the voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from whence the sound came. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which they heard; and it said unto them: Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him (3 Nephi 11:5-7). In modern times the Prophet Joseph Smith saw two Beings, God the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. Joseph bears record to the world that he heard the voice of God identify the Savior with the statement, "This is my Beloved Son." At the same time God approved the mission of the Savior, including the plan Christ had presented, by saying "Hear him" (PGP, Joseph Smith 2:17). A Definition of Theology The study of God through a careful, unprejudiced examination of the sacred literature and the organized information dealing with God is called theology. 'To analyze this word theos means God, and Jogos means an organized body of knowledge. It is out of this organized body of knowledge that we can discover the reality of God and the true meaning of his revelations to man, provided, as we study, that we have faith sufficient to enjoy the inspiration of his spirit. To all members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has been given the gift of the Holy Ghost. Only by the witness of the Holy Ghost can the members testify to the reality of God the Eternal Father and his Son Jesus Chnist. This witness does not automatically follow our confirmation to membership in the Church; it comes through humility, service to our fellow men, and a sincere effort LESSON DEPARTMENT to incorporate into our lives the rules of conduct, the way of life or religion as found in the teachings of the divine will of God. A Definition of Divine In the use of the term divine, clarification and specific meanings must be given. According to the dictionary, the word divine may be a noun, meaning a clergyman, or minister; a verb, meaning to foretell or prophesy; or an adjective, meaning godlike, heavenly, or emanating from God. The Latter-day Saint Concept of Divine To the Latter-day Saint the defnition of divine refers specifically to God our Eternal Father, to his Son Jesus Christ, and to the Holy Ghost, for they are one in purpose. It refers to their dealings with us, including all that pertains to the plan of life and salvation. All that is good comes from God and is, therefore, divine. We recognize God as the Creator without qualification or limitation. Paul the apostle had this Same point of view when he said, For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: i things were created by him, and for im: And he is before all things, and by him all things consist (Col. 1:16-17). President John Taylor in commenting upon this scripture said, "If all things, visible and invisible, are made by and for him, he governs and sustains all worlds to us known, together with the earth on which we live. If he governs them, they are 547 under his dominion, subject to his laws, and controlled by his will and power ('l'AyLor, JoHN: The Government of God, August 1852, page 1). In The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 132:12, we read, "I am the Lord thy God; and I give unto you this commandment — that no man shall come unto the Father but by me or by my word, which is my law, saith the Lord." And in ancient scripture we read, "Know therefore this day, and consider it in thine heart, that the Lord he is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there is none else" (Deut. 4:39). From the above statements, we must conclude that for a Latter-day Saint the term divine has a sacred, holy meaning in that things divine originate with God the Eternal Father. In this sense, divine refers to all the instruction, guidance, and rules of conduct that God has revealed through all ages for the benehit and progress of his children on earth. "Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth" (Psalms 119:142), and "... The truth of the Lord endureth forever" (Psalms 117:2). God Has All Wisdom With the above in mind we will consider the word of God to be divine law. Our study is built on the basic premise of the reality of God. Of equal importance is the companion idea that God knows all things pertaining to his innumerable creations. To man, the challenge was issued in the beginning to people the earth, subdue it, and have dominion over all living things upon it. In plain, simple terms the earth was 548 designed for the benefit of man; however, he must achieve the benefits through his own efforts by discovering the governing principles involved. As has been pointed out before, the earth and the universe operate on God's laws. 'The operation of the planets and the stars, the operation of the elements and the rules governing life upon this earth are fixed by divine law. Man does not have the control nor operation of these laws. 'This function of creation God has retained. Under his wisdom it has operated successfully according to his design. People — God's Crowning Creation The universe in its degree of perfection is the place provided for man to grow and develop and, in the process, bring under subjection for his use and comfort all that nature has to offer.... The fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the air, and that which climbeth upon the trees and walketh upon the earth; Yea, and the herb, and the good things which come of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards; Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart; Yea, for food and for raiment, for taste and for smell, to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion (D & C 59:16-20). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 Divine Law Is for the Welfare of His Children From the beginning of the first dispensation of time, God has revealed himself to his children upon this earth. In a consistent manner and in language that could be understood he has pointed out the destiny of man. President Lorenzo Snow, a modern prophet, summarized man's destiny in his statement "as God is man may become." The mind and will of God concerning man have been expressed through revelation giving direction to man through which he can obtain the most out of life. Divine revelation has concerned itself primarily with laws governing man's relationship with man. The Social Aspect of Our Religion Basic to all the law given is the divine law of love, having its fundamental meaning expressed in the kinship relation of the Fatherhood of God, and the brotherhood of man. The love of one's fellow men is essential to the love of God. On this divine law—love of God and love of fellow men, are all the laws based. In the creation, man was recognized as a social being. 'The Creator said "... It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him" (Genesis 2:18). The first commandment given to Adam and Eve was to people the earth. With the coming of people the problems of interaction increased. The struggle between Cain and Abel was evidence of the intensity and importance of human association. This conflict invoked another basic law that we are our brother's keeper. From generation to generation the Lord has patiently LESSON DEPARTMENT continued to keep before his children the divine laws of human conduct. During Christ's ministry there was a re-emphasis of the rules of conduct with clarification of the destiny of the human family. He stated anew the plan of life and his purpose in this world which was to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. How was this to be accomplished? By man's obedience to the divine laws and ordinances governing human conduct which is his gospel. We are told "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise' (D & C 82:10); and "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). The major concern of the great council in heaven was how man could obtain the most out of his earthly experience. The plan of God the Creator was to give man his agency. Christ volunteered to put the Father's plan in operation. The Savior was to provide man with direction and stimulation to develop and progress under divine rules and regulations. Man with his freedom can listen, learn, and choose. The divine law has been given for his benefit. If he will operate or direct his life according to the law, it is possible for him to achieve the full objective of his creation. To assist in the achievement of man's destiny the divine law has l, SACRED MUSIC | FOR | WOMEN'S VOICES COME UNTO HIM "MESSIAH" — Handel.20 l COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.20 | FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, | GO — Madsen.20.. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25._ IN THY FORM — Madsen.20.. JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING — Bach.25. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens.20 LORD'S PRAYER - _ MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach.25.. THE 23RD PSALM — Schubert.25. UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES — Beethoven..22.. VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS — Scott Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 €. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please above On Approval [] Charge Money Enclosed i H ] |; send the music indicated '! { | | | | | | |; 1 | | | I t t! | | | I City and State 0.00.-. | I l l | l l l; I | I I I I l I | I I ' | I Malotte 25 | I I | l | I | i I | [ | | I l | I I i I I I I | 15 E. Ist South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah | 550 CHESBRO MUSIC CO. Box 2009 Idaho Falls, Idaho THE WEST'S LARGEST MUSIC DISTRIBUTOR SSA Arrangements ( ) Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring — Bach — No. 8388.25 ( +) Still, Still With Thee — Madsen — No. 103817 200.000 22 ( ) The Lord's Prayer — Malotte — No. 7987 25 ( ) The Lord Is My Shepherd — Smart — No. 1417 22.20 ( ) Unto Thee | Lift Mine Eyes — No. 6221 oo occcccccee ccc ceceeeee enone 22 ( ) Let Not Your Song End — Cain — No. 83238 0 25 ( ) The Voice in the Wilderness — No. 504 ooo. En.25 ( ) My Soul Is Athirst for God — Madsen ooei iio eeee cece eee ee eeeeeeee.20 ( ) Abide With Me 'Tis Eventide — Madsen ooo ieee ccce ec ceee ee eeeee.20 ( ) Love One Another — Fox.30 ( ) You'll Never Walk Alone — Rodgers & Hammerstein.25 ( ) No Man Is an Island.25 ( ) Give Me Your Tired, Your 5) en.25 ( ) Calm as the Night.20 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from a handsomely bound cover. Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 200000200. 35 150 to 300 miles _ 0002 uw..39 300 to 600 miles 0.0000. 45 Se 600 to 1000 miles _ 00000000. 54 1000 to 1400 miles 0000..000.64 1400 to 1800 miles 000000.. 76 Over 1800 miles _ 00.000000 0002..87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, ie (@) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1962 been organized into government and, through the Priesthood or the power to act in the name of God, it operates to assist man in obtaining the full joy of living in this world with assurance of eternal life and exaltation in our Father's kingdom. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Why is the reality of God so important to a testimony of the truthfulness of the Latter-day Saint religion? 2. What is the Latter-day Saint meaning of divine? 3. What are the two main sources of evidence supporting the reality of God? 4. What is the significance of the references recording the voice of God the Eternal Father? References: Genesis, Chapter 1. The Book of Moses, Pearl of Great Price, Chapters 1-2. D & C Sections 84, 88, 121, 130, 132. The Apple Tree Evelyn Fjeldsted Our apple tree is gone. Chalice blossoms pink and white, Will never open wide again, To hold the rains and warm sunlight. Knarled old branches shielding homing birds Brought spring perfume, inviting shade, Gifts of apples brushed with red, And autumn leaves — a gold cascade. How many trees have come and gone Since this our land began to grow — Gone with this our tree — our pioneer? Only passing winds could know. Our family tree is gone — There is no singing now at dawn. Child Swinging Ida Elaine James Just seconds ago She was my own child And that was enough For me to know. Now, a handful of wild, Sweet air-borne fluff Lighter than snow, She is separate, free. Yellow hair afly, She is the essence of freedom, Feet pointed to the sky Away from me. Her cascade of laughter Is a bell's ding-dong; Air-emancipated spirit Beyond my claim, While she is swinging — A triumphant song Without a name. Mount Timpanogos Christie Lund Coles The entire valley lies Greening at your feet; The surrounding hills Are fawn beige, embroidered In varying shades Of green — from nile To emerald hue. The aspens, like groups Of small chicks running From their mother's wing, Cover the mountainside. Their foliage quivers In the spring sunlight. The straight pines Seem new-washed And stronger From the winter's Vicissitudes While you, like a matriarch In age and white wisdom, stand Serene, above the young, Renewing land. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 20, 1962. Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited, such as Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Victoria, Canada, leaving July 23. TEN-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving dates: August 17, September 21. Ask about our tour to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-805] Gives you the ultimate in fingertip total electric living now and for years to come. \) f) 1 ) Ors Ss > | s When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? Birthday Congratulations Ninety-seven Mrs. Nora Ho. Uipay Britton Burbank, California Ninety-five Mrs. ELLEN FRANCE ROBBINS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Emma Goss CARTER BREWSTER Layton, Utah Mrs. FREDONIA BAKER Bicknell, Utah Ninety Mrs. AMELIA J. TOPHAM Parowan, Utah Mrs. Frances FOWLER Morris Parowan, Utah Mrs. FLora CARPENTER CRAWFORD Markesan, Wisconsin Mrs. FRANCES ALVERETTA CASSITY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lovisa COFFIN Milk River, Canada Mrs. Rosana NAEGLE LUNT Cedar City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE E\LFors MarsH Tooele, Utah Mrs. Emma BuTLeR MAXFIELD Bakersfield, California Mrs. Mary A. WALKER EYRE Salt Lake City, Utah Page 552 NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — June 29, July 3, August 6 July 9 leaving from Phoenix, Arizona EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — August 9, September 8, September 22. HILL CUMORAH TOUR leaving July 28 MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah HU 6-160] — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Blessed Point of No Return Iris W. Schow Heart, fainting in the dark, Press toward the dawn, Remembering how paper-thin The line is drawn Between success and failure, When complete Refusal to give up Can keep man from retreat; How frail the thread that separates Victory from defeat; How many of earth's greatest goals Had not been won Were not the turning back a longer trek Than pressing on. thet a ~t | Lind a: ts oe el. Hi 1 2 a Rarer TE PN RFE SS UEA ONE yRigg 22% Celebrate Day of Y* by readin i BRIGHAM YOUNG AT HOME Clarissa Young Spencer and Mabel Harmer This choice book contains heart-warming, intimate recollections of those pioneer days when President Young's home (the newlyrestored Beehive House) teemed with family life and when famous guests from over the world were entertained in the grand parlors. Now in a new edition, this book received national acclaim and recognition when it first appeared in print. Hosts of pictures of the Beehive House interior as well as personal comments on all members of the Brigham Young household are included. 2.95 2. PIONEER THEATRE IN THE DESERT | fla Fisher Maughan _ There was mighty splendor in pioneer theatri-: cals in Salt Lake City and the Utah territory. This fascinating book recalls all the: highlights in the old Salt Lake Theatre, the Social Hall, the bow- | eries and elsewhere. For sheer color 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City. Utah and glamour, nothing compares to Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. 0 Te ees | Deseret Book Company | these times when entertainment rn. Te —— was vibrant and alive. This is a | Centlemen: I | | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order |. Book to read now since the Pioneer | ( ) | have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed | |:. | Sh for encircled (numbered) books: | Memorial Theatre will be opening I 1 2!. 7 N Re. Senna ele ere ear EE soon on the University of Utah | a tae eee | campus. Unusual illustrations. | City. Zone State. LW 2.50 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah ce Seo hh & aS ee? Pat 4 ENS -18-176-3957% JUL Oo Tops for berries... And your breakfast cereal @ Tops in preference for canning and freezing, both home and commercial @ It's as pure, as fine, as sweet, as white as any sugar you can buy. For every sweetening and preserving use @ It brings out the full flavor of fruit... And other pleasure foods, from ice cream and candy to soft drinks and bakery desserts. U and | SUGAR COMPANY @ SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH EL? SOCIETY MAGA ZIWN B VOL, 49 NO. 8 
