
VOL, 49 NO. 6 Lesson Previews JUNE 1962 Mis P.@ > aS A a Gal ns be a ae » "Vy 7 PE. Tw "es 7 gst ng 7 ot Z. 4 tj: iy ie BA £; 7 This House Is Heritage (The Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah) Alberta H. Christensen This house is more than stairway, floor, and hall, Roof of many gables, windows dormer-quaint — This house is heritage. Awakened memories return — Autumn sun on quartered apples, drying, The rhythmic spinning wheel and loom, Corn-meal mush, the jellied canyon berries, Skimming the cream for a wooden churn; For washday clothes in the iron caldron — Indigo bluing and potato starch, Firewood ashes, the pounding-dolly; And a prismed lamp for the sitting room. This heirloom house is made of dreams — Flowers fashioned from a loved one's hair Hung on that wall, beyond the stair A child remembered in an oval frame. And warm as laughter, the friendships built By thimbled fingers on a namesake quilt. Remembrance lingers, like the evening prayer, Upon the mellowed rosewood of a chair, Around the Bible, worn, though leather-bound, On hymn, commandment, and love's whispered vow. This house is heritage — Symbol dream... And remembered sound. The Cover: Scene in Bruges, Belgium Color 'Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: The Lion House, Salt Lake City, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far Although I have been a member of the Church for over two years, I have never before written to express my appreciation for our inspiring Magazine. It has meant much to me and has helped to make Relief Society very dear to my heart. If only every woman could realize the importance of regular attendance at Relief Society, the happiness, strength, knowledge, and spiritual growth one can gain. —Mrs. W. R. Deputy Whittier, California For many years I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine — the inspirational lessons, the uplifting poems and stories. I have especially appreciated the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). I looked forward each month to another chapter because the story was so well written. —Mrs. Ivinetta R. Oliver Albany, New York I think I read the first copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and have been a constant reader ever since, always finding something written especially for me. I can't remember the numerous times my spirits have been lifted or my problems have been solved by the inspiration I received. The joy I get from the beautiful new covers is worth the subscription price several times over. —Vilate R. McAllister Salt Lake City, Utah I am very grateful to my mother for sending me a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine each year at Christmas time. I am a young mother with five small children, so there is always much to do. I feel that the time I use in reading the Magazine inspires me to be a better wife, mother, and neighbor. My husband teaches school, and he enjoys the Magazine as I do. I hope that all Latter-day Saint mothers will realize the importance of the Magazine in their homes. —Ethelyn H. Peterson Las Vegas, Nevada Page 394 The April issue of The Relief Society Magazine arrived today. It is beautiful. May I offer my congratulations for such an array of lovely articles and stories, poems and recipes. I like the introduction of color you have been using to highlight the titles. It makes each page clamor to be read. The Magazine is rapidly becoming a work of art in arrangement and style, appealing to our artistic senses, as well as to our intellectual needs. All of this lovely work enhances the spiritual quality of the Magazine. —Marion Pinkston President Los Angeles Stake Relief Society For the past ten months I have receive The Relief Society Magazine through th generosity of Mrs. S. Lichfield of Ogden Utah. I feel that I must compliment y on the excellence of its contents. Quality is consistently good — helpful an inspiring. —Mrs. E. Hawkes Gosforth Newcastle Upon Tyne England A few years ago my daughter Rosalie" added the wonderful Relief Society Magazine as part of my birthday gift, and each year she has renewed the subscription for me. We haven't been able to keep our Relief Society meetings going in this small town, but the Magazine is very dear to me, and I love to read it from cover to cover. —Mrs. Rose R. Stokes Promontory, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is a most gratifying addition to my many periodicals that keep me alert, but with all its worth and uplift, it has a blessed repose th makes one choose it from among th and excitement of our current trend. —Bertha A. Kleinman Mesa, Arizona

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen~ - - - - = - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanch B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 49 JUNE 1962 NO. 6 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES A Tribute to Emma Ray McKay 0ooiiio. EieeeeceeeeecceeeceeeeceeeeeeeeceeeeeceeecveesecnesecceeseeceeeeesChristine H. Robinson 396 The Blessings of Family Unity.2 2.. C. EcceeccecccetececcceeecccecececceeeneeceeeeceveceeeeceeeeeseececeoeeeeIrene W. Buehner 401 In Memoriam — Elder George Q. Morris. O 2--lecsecccceecoccceceeeeeeceeecceeeeecceceseeeeseuceesesteccteeecsucseesteceeseneeceececeneee 408 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part IJI — Bathsheba W. Smith | coeceneseegeecece tbc eePreston Nibley 410 Annual Report for 196) o2 ooccecccceccecceceeeceecccececencceecesnccectececcecenecessensecenesecesesessessecssseeescesseeesHulda Parker 428 FICTION Hand to the Plow — Part [TD ooecccccccccceccccceceeccccccecseccecncececcecceceeceeeccesecacecenseeeereceeeeeeeeeesIlene H. Kingsbury 412 To You With Love ono. Lcccecceceecceecteeeceeeeee ee veces eeeeenesceceeeeseccesecescenseseteesesteseessenseseeceeccesBetty Lou Martin 420 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 6 (Conclusion) cteeeeceeeceeeeeeeeeeMargery S. Stewart 442 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Fat ooeeeiccee-ceecccceeeceeescececccesecnececcesecenseceececeeceveceeseevesseceeceessoeseessscecersupsceneceessceeeneeeesssssesensececceeeecesceees 394 BIXty Years Ago nn.. Eeeoe ececceeecceecceccececeeseccccecenencenerecceessecesscecseccescececessccenccsesccenqesessncecenccessnseanecccneccenecensccesnneees 416 A Loy esYo 5 eM IES) ©) oC: -Ramona W. Cannon 417 Editorial: The 132d Annual Church Conference 220.0. Ccecececccececeesseeceececceeececsceeceeseensesnesceceenacectensceceeeceeeess 418 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2 20 00.0cccccccccccecceeeeeeeeee cece eeeneeeeeeeHulda Parker 449 Birthday Congratulations 20 20 oo. Cceececeeccececeeecceecceececeresceceeeeceeseeeeesececeesecanseececenecerseesseeaesesesensesesesesseseetereeceneseee 472 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes for a Brunch 2o. I ii oe coceeeeeccceecenceenceeeceeeceeececeseceeeseeceeecenecececeeeenceseeeeeeeeceeeeLinnie Fisher Robinson 426 Toddler's Cover-Apronn. Io.. O --.. Ceece-cceeceeeceeeseeoceeeeseneeceecnseceneceeeceneceseecessseneenseceoececsesseeneseeaecesShirley Thulin 438 Alma Anderson — Specialist With Needle and Crochet Hook 20 2. C2cc. Cscssesscecceesecceseecceeneensceeeseeeneenees 440 Leftover DisQuises 22 eececceccceesececceeceeeceecceseeseceecsceceseseesauensenssessscceeeesseseaseseseseceeeceseceeeeJanet W. Breeze 441 Pie-Tin Therapy oo eccceccceccececececececeeceeceesecececeeeeseceesecsececeecucceceseseeeseessceceseeesessseseeeeeeeeees Pauline L. Jensen 446 Peace in a Troubled World oo. I. Ei.. Oceceecceccccesccoeeecesceseesceseeceececssnceeceecsecsscesensesvesceseececnneeoneereseesee: Ruth L. Jones 448 LESSON DEPARTMENT — PREVIEWS FOR 1962-63 Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons 0 00222 ---Alice L. Wilkinson 456 Theology — The Doctrine and Covenants 2o.. I eeeeceeccccecceceeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeceeeseeneeceeveseeensRoy W. Doxey 459 Visiting Teacher Messages —- Truths to Live By From The Doctrine Co} Xo ME OXoh'4-) oo § 0) (aChristine H. Robinson 461] Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home 0. N i eceneeecccceceeeeceeeeeeeceeeeeeneeeeesVirginia F. Cutler 462 Literature — America's Literature 20.0.2 ceececccoccccecceceececceceeeceesesceeeeceseeceecseueeseseeaceceessueeesBriant S. Jacobs 464 Social Science — Divine Law and Church Government 0..0..0 ---senceneereneceencnae entiAriel S. Ballif 466 Notes on the Authors of the Lessons 2o -..-ceecccecscucescevececaceutenseretencenseaseusensesesstseeseeeeeeees ee _ ' 468 POETRY This House Is Heritage — Frontispiece.0 2 eccsceeceeeceeeeeceeeeceececeeeeeeeeenseesAlberta H. Christensen 393 View From the Trees, by Lucille R. Perry, 400; I Know a Thing, by Ida Elaine James, 415; June and the Rose, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 424; Before the Word Goes Forth, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 425; Bonus Prize, by Viola Ashton Candland, 427; Narrow Valley, by Zara Sabin, 439; Morning Song, by Leora Larsen, 445; Memories of Home, by Geneva H. Williams, 469; Navigator, by Rose Thomas Graham, 470; Trees of Mystery by Lela Foster Morris, 471; I Pity the Child, by Christie Lund Coles, 472. 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected monuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Page 395 Christine H. Robinson Member, Adult Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council "T° HE most fortunate day in his life, according to President David O. McKay, was June 23, 1877. This was the birthday of Emma Ray Riggs, who, on January 2, 1901, became his wife and loving companion for this life and throughout the eternities. For eighty-five years, Sister McKay has lived an exemplary life rich in human service, love, devotion and high accomplishment. On her eighty-fifth birthday, the Relief Society is honored to pay tribute to this noble woman — a personal tribute that comes from each of the Society's 231,175 members all over the world. The life of Emma Ray McKay portrays in every detail the highest ideals and aspirations of Relief Society as they have been taught and practiced since its origin. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when he organized the society in 1842, charged the sisters to "enlarge your souls towards each other.... Let kindness, charity and love crown your works be armed with mercy, pure in heart." Sister McKay's life is a living example in action of the applications of this charge. In her quiet, friendly, and efficient way, this remarkable woman has practiced benevolence, charity, love, kindness, and consideration, and she has fostered the highest ideals among women. In fact, her life has exemplified those womanly virtues heralded by Solomon when he described the qualities of a noble woman. He said, "Strength and honour are her clothing.... She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her... Her own works praise her' (Proverbs 31:25-28, 31). Someone has said that greatness consists of doing common things uncommonly well. In all of her outstanding accomplishments, Sister McKay has had this uncommon touch. She has been a devoted and loving mother who has reared her children with kindness and understanding in righteousness. Her children can never remember when she tolerated the smallest "white lie" or untruth. She insisted that they be truthful, even on April Fool's Day. In rearing her children, not one of them can ever remember hearing her raise her voice in anger. Sister McKay has been a firm believer and a consistent practicer of the principle of praise. 'Throughout her life, she has drawn people close to her by concentrating on their good points rather than upon the bad. The application of this fundamental principle of human behavior Opposite page: Emma Ray Riggs at sixteen years of age, about the time she first met President McKay. Page 396 398 is indicated in this story which her children enjoy relating. After her graduation from college and before her marriage, Emma Ray Riggs taught school for a short time. In introducing her to the class, the principal pointed to a twelve-yearold boy and said, "You'll have to watch out for this youngster. He's the worst boy in school." After the principal had lett the room, the young teacher immediately wrote a note which read, "Earl, I think the principal was mistaken about you. I trust you and know you are going to help me make this room the best in the school." She then walked down the aisle and slipped the note to the boy without anyone noticing. As he read it she saw his face light up. Earl became one of the best behaved boys in the class. In her loving devotion to her husband, Sister McKay has set an example and maintained a relationship which, in President McKay's own words, "have crowned her as the sweetest, most helpful, most devoted sweetheart and wife that ever inspired a man to noble endeavor." N birthdays, Mother's Days, Christmases, and wedding anniversaries, President McKay has paid special written tribute to his wonderful companion. On their thirtythird wedding anniversary, for example, he said, "Her education has enabled her to be a true helpmate; her congeniality and interest in my work, a pleasing companion; her charm and unselfishness, a lifelong sweetheart; her unbounded patience and intelligent insight into childhood, a most devoted mother." Recently, when President and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 Sister McKay were standing in front of Buckingham Palace in London, a bystander approached them and re marked: "I hope you are having an enjoyable time on your honeymoon. It is easy to tell that you have only recently been married." 'This unintended compliment shows how visible the tender love and admiration, which had grown in this remarkable couple for more than fifty years, sparkled through their loving countenances. Since the time when the children no longer needed her immediate motherly supervision, Sister McKay has been by the side of her husband as he has traveled about the Church on his important responsibilities. Through these world-wide contacts, Sister McKay has exerted an enduring, beneficial influence on people everywhere—particularly upon the women of the Church. Through these contacts, she has made a tremendous contribution toward fostering world-wide sisterhood. In count less personal conversations and in her many talks to Church groups, she has given practical instructions on how to build better, happier, and more peaceful homes. She _ has helped women of foreign lands obtain a better understanding of the home life of women in the valleys of the mountains. On her return home, she has been untiring in her efforts to inform Utah Relief Society women about the problems and successes of women abroad. This has helped immeasurably to develop closer bonds of love, appreciation, and true sisterhood everywhere. In addition to her many other contributions, Emma Ray McKay has been a devoted worker in Relief Society and has always had a deep A TRIBUTE TO EMMA RAY McKAY ' EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY 399 Picture taken on her eighty-fourth birthday, June 23, 1961 love for this divinely inspired womans organization. Soon after her marriage, she was called to be president of the Ogden Fourth Ward Relief Society. At that time the ward societys membership consisted of twelve women. Determined to make a success of her calling, Sister McKay, frequently, would bundle her baby into his carriage and set out to visit personally the sisters in the ward. Through this personal contact the membership soon grew from twelve to ninety enthusiastic sisters. A waid Relief Society president had a very real responsibility for the temporal well-being of the members and their families. Sister McKay discharged this responsibility with loving watchcare. A daughter tells of her mother bringing needy children into her home, of dressing 400 them in clean clothes, and feeding them warm, nourishing food. Sister McKay was soon called to be first counselor in the Ogden Stake Relief Society. Later, when the family moved to Salt Lake, she became first counselor in the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society. In 1922-24, when ~ President McKay was called to preside over the European Missions, Sister McKay was set apart as president of all the Relief Societies and as head of all of the Church auxiliaries on the European continent. Each of these important positions she filled with honor and distinction. Throughout her full and fruitful RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 life, Emma Ray McKay has been a shining example of womanhood in its highest and noblest form. In motherhood, in love and devotion to her husband, in good citizenship, in her true friendliness and personal refinement, in her wholesome sense of humor, and in her interest and concern for others, Sister McKay has set an example for each of us to follow. To know her is to love her. On her eighty-fifth birthday, we pray that the Lord's choicest blessings will continue with her now and forever. View from the Trees Lucile R. Perry Here in the aspen grove is kindly shade, Parting the sun's warmth with its cool eclipse, And where the fallen trees lie, a branch has made A place to rest. No fleet of silent ships Has rocked on greener seas than where these Inert giants ride the swells of grass. On gold and white of flower foam they cease To resist the urgent tides of days that pass. And I would stay here in this safe retreat, Leaning where white bark encircles strength, If the meadow had no paths to bewitch the feet, Or eyes not see, mind fail to know the length Of redolent fields to those far purple slopes, Shod in winged sandals of fair hopes. The Blessings of Family Unity Irene W.. Buehner For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh (Mt. 19:5-6). NE of the nicest things Oo about marriage is acquir- ( ue) ing membership in a new Hey family. This does not take the place of your own family, but merely enlarges your sphere of affection. If married couples are "no more twain, but one flesh," as the Lord intended, we should accept and love all those who enter our families through marriage as our very own. With this new membership, comes the responsibility of fitting into the established family pattern. This is made so much easier if one is welcomed into the family with warmth and love. When members of the family develop a genuine fondness for one another, they are well on their way toward family unity. The Buehner family has tried to accomplish this family unity. Perhaps a glimpse into the lives of Grandpa and Grandma Buehner will reveal how well they have succeeded. When the Latter-day Saint missionaries knocked on the door of the Carl F. Buehner home in Stuttgart, Germany, in the year 1899, they found a devoted young couple who listened to their words. It is the spirit that converts people to the gospel, and as a family we shall always be grateful to the missionaries who kindled that spint within Grandma and Grandpa Buehner. They were baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on October 31, 1899. In the spring of 1901, Carl F. Buehner, his young wife Anna Bertha, and their two infant sons, Carl, age two, and Otto, a babe in arms, emigrated to Salt Lake City, Utah. Their story is the story of hundreds of converts to the Church who at that time felt the urgency to come to Zion to establish a home close to a temple of our Heavenly Father. What a sad day it must have been for these people to leave father, mother, and dear ones behind and embark for a new world. It is difficult for those of us who have not experienced this to understand what their feelings must have been. I am always pained when I see an uprooted tree, with its bare root fibers exposed to the ravages of drying sun and wind, but there is comfort and hope when we find a young tree transplanted in a new environment where it will receive plenty of water and sunshine to make it fruitful. The Buehners found their new environment fruitful and a land of opportunity. The people in this new land were kind and helpful. However, there were problems to overcome, and there were difficult times ahead. Grandpa Buehner worked hard to support his family and establish a home. 'The language was difficult to: learn. They studied and lived the gospel principles, and on March 18, 1903, they were endowed and sealed for all eternity in the Salt Lake 'Temple. Page 40] 402 fee + RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 THE CARL F. BUEHNER FAMILY Photograph taken in Stuttgart, Germany, just before the family left their native land for a new home in America. Standing: Carl F. Buehner; seated: Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; children, left to right: Carl W. Buehner, age two; Otto Buehner, age six months. RANDPA Buehner purchased property in the Forest Dale area near what was then known as Brigham Young's farmhouse. With his own hands, he built a large twostory, gray stone house for his family. Most of the Buehner children were born in that house, which was to be the home of the parents as long as they lived. Eleven children were born to this couple, eight sons and three daughters. The first three children were born in Germany, a daughter Frida, who died soon after birth, Carl W., and Otto. Walter, Adolph, John A., Philip H., Paul, Bertha, Clarence, and Helen were born in America. Walter and Adolph died in their youth. In a family of boys, you can imagine how welcome those two little girls were. Helen remembers receiving a card from her father, written in his best English, when he THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY was on a trip east, which said, "There isn't a little girl in all New York who is as sweet as you. Your loving Daddy." Grandpa Buehner had a firm, unwavering testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. An old friend of his wrote a letter to my husband in which he stated: "You had the best. Father anyone could ask for. He was _ the same every day, six days a week." All of his children can remember Grandpa Buehner testifying of his knowledge that the gospel was true and that prayers are answered. He literally led the way to Church for all of his family, usually a pace or so_ ahead of his beloved wife and the children. They sat in the same place every Sunday at meeting. The Buehner home was an oldfashioned home. Making bread and milking cows were regular - procedures. Early to bed and early to rise was expected by the parents and accepted by the children. The boys worked as soon as they were able to hold a trowel steady. The girls were taught to cook, darn, mend, and sew. Every Buehner daughter-in-law remembers when she was married finding the shoe boxes of socks in her husband's wardrobe. Each stocking was neatly initialed, darned in innumerable places, and rolled carefully in place. Waste and extravagance were never tolerated. The family home was like a magnet which drew all the family and their friends to it. The boys always brought their girl friends home to meet the family, usually on Sunday evening after sacrament meeting. At first I thought the purpose was to give the girls the opportunity of meeting the family, but later I realized the reverse was true. The boys 403 wanted the family's approval of their choice. Grandma Buehner served delicious sandwiches, made _ with homemade bread, and plenty of good milk. Frequently there were tasty apple cottage cheese pies, too, which were kept in a wide drawer in the kitchen table. Many times some of their German friends would call on them also. One I remember in particular played a _ bandonion. Whenever Brother Laubengaier came, Grandpa Buehner would bring his smaller bandonion out of its hiding place and join in playing beautiful hymns and Strauss waltzes. There was such a wonderful warm feeling in the home that every newcomer felt welcome and wanted. RANDPA and Grandma Buehner seemed to accept wholeheartedly the girls their sons chose to marry. 'Their affection for each of us seemed to be just as deep as for their own children. As a result, the entire family followed the pattern of acceptance which the parents manifested toward us. 'Their primary concern was for the children to have temple marriages and all of them had this privilege. Each Buehner brother and sister is vitally interested in the other's welfare in a subtle and unobtrusive way. One incident that was not quite so unobtrusive happened at the time John Buehner gave his diamond ring to Verda. John had sought what he thought was a less "trafficked" area as the place to propose marriage. He had just placed the ring on Verda's significant finger, when brother Paul burst into the room to borrow a tie. He grasped the situation at a glance and hastily kissed Verda in brother- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 zz THE BUEHNER HOME, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH This two-story gray stone home was built by 'Grandpa'? Carl F. Buehner, with his own hands, and has been the center of family activity for many years. Seated on the step, left to right: Bertha Buehner Lambert; Paul Buehner; Clarence Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to ght: John A. Buehner; * 'Grandma" Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; "Grandpa" Carl F. Buehner; Philip H. Buehner. Ly welcome before John had a chance. There is a pronounced strain of good humor in all the Buehners. This was a delightful characteristic of Grandpa Buehner. I remember hearing him describe hard times by saying, ""The bread was cut so thin we could read the newspaper through it." My earliest recollection of the Buehner family was hearing of their athletic prowess. The name Buehner was posted prominently on high school and Church tournament scoreboards. The family enjoys telling the story of Grandpa Buehner first football game. In spite of the fact that his sons had been so active in sports in their school years, their THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY father had showed little interest. He had never seen a game. Otto finally persuaded him to go with him to see this particular one, because John was expected to star. Otto had explained the rudiments of the game to his father. On the first play John caught a beautiful pass and ran through the opponent's defense toward the goal. Suddenly, just short of the goal line, he turned to check his pursuers, stumbled on the rough turf, and fell. Grandpa Buehner rose to his feet with his arms flying in the air, directing John in loud terms to, "Go on, Johann, go on!" His interest in the boy's athletic activities was vocal and vehement after that experience. HE living room of the Buehner home was the hub of all the family activities. A round diningroom table stood in the center, over which hung a large bright light, excellent for studying. 'There were large comfortable chairs and even 405 a leather sofa in this room, which was dining and living room combined, a forerunner of our modern family rooms, without the distraction of television or radio. I remember once walking into this room to find Grandpa Buehner sitting in the large red leather rocker. Lucile, Carl's wife, was sitting on a little stool at his feet asking his opinion on problems of child rearing. It was a pleasant sight, and I had the feeling that Lucile gathered great strength from the simple direct comments of Grandpa Buehner. You were never interrupting anything when you walked into this room, because conversation went on and you were brought right into it. As the children grew up, there was seldom a year when one of the boys was not serving in the mission field. The four oldest boys completed their missions before the death of their parents. With so manv other children at home, this might have been considered a sacriTHE BUEHNER FAMILY GROUP Seated. Left to right: Lucile Thurman Buehner; Irene Williams Buehner; Marjorie Evans Buehner; Berda Crouch Buehner; Bertha Buehner Lambert; Kay Yaeger Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to nght: Carl W. Buehner; Paul Buehner; Philip H. Buehner; John A. Buehner; Q. Cannon Lambert; Clarence Buehner; Roger S. Woods. 406 fice, but not to Grandma and Grandpa Buehner. For them it was the fulfillment of one of their fondest dreams, and they always felt it was a great blessing in their home to have a son in the missionary service. Several Buehner children were in the university at the same time. Each one had to manage to finance himself, because work was hard to find and the family income was limited during the depression years. One winter the family subsisted on a large sack of split peas which Grandpa Buehner had received in place of money for work he had done. The boys worked wherever they could find work to be done. Many times they parked cars for the patrons at the university functions for a dollar a night. Some of the Buehners were responsible for making out the payrolls for all the students working on these projects. 'Twice a month the dining room table in the Buehner home was the gathering place for carrying out this detail. Grandma Buehner never objected to the numerous and varied activities which her children and their friends brought into the house. In her quiet, sweet way she made all who came feel welcome. IRTHDAYS and Christmas time were always remembered with some special something for each one. Money was not plentiful for them, and today the children cannot even imagine how their mother managed so well. Grandma Buehner passed away July 19, 1935, quite suddenly, following surgery. She was only sixtyone years old. Grandpa Buehner was so lonely without his loyal comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 panion. I remember very well, he put his hand to his chest and said, "Irene, my heart is broken." Nothing seemed to assuage his grief. Four months later he followed his beloved wife in death. The children all felt the responsibility of holding the family together. Grandpa Buehner had been indeed the head of his household and had set a fine example for them to follow. They realized that one of the things which holds a family together is to do things together. The home was remodeled to accommodate the John Buehner family in the basement, the Paul Buehner family in the upstairs apartment, and the ground floor housed the four unmarried children, the youngest of whom was eighteen. The two eldest brothers, Carl and Otto, lived close enough to drop in frequently to give direction and counsel when problems arose. Plans were made to hold an annual Christmas family party, and to celebrate the family birthdays as far as possible. Genealogy work was promoted, and as the names were cleared the family did the endowment work and family sealings were arranged. Another family project was helping the youngest son finance his mission to Germany. The depression of 1929 left its toll of doubts, debts, and discouragements with the Buehners, as it did with so many families at that time. Each brother had gone his separate way trying to earn a living for himself and those dependent upon him. After death had taken both mother and father, the idea of re-establishing a business, combining the talents of the six brothers, was born anew. The family felt a deep sense of THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY humility when Carl W. Was named the bishop of Forest Dale Ward. To be named the bishop of the very ward in which his parents had lived, reared their family, and spent such happy years was a privilege. HE plans for the double wedding reception for the two girls was a joyous family effort. Everyone helped, and the rooms of the old house once again were the scene of happy family festivities. The Christmas party for the Buehner family which was started twenty-six years ago has become a wonderful tradition. We can no longer meet in one of our homes but have to hire a hall. The programs are always interesting because they are furnished by members of the family. There were over one hundred Buehners at the party last year. Another occasion we all look forward to is the July Fourth reunion which is held in Big Cottonwood Canyon where we can enjoy the out-of-doors, hiking, and_ playing games. The children of Grandma and Grandpa Buehner try to celebrate each other's birthdays with a German dinner, which is often a potluck party, with each couple bringing a dish of German food. These 407 are always so enjoyable we are reluctant to miss one of them. We have noted with pleasure that the Buehner "cousins" are now finding occasions for parties and temple sessions. I am grateful for the Buehner family, and their acceptance of me and the love we have for one another. Each family is a source of strength and comfort to every other family. 'There is no spirit of competition. Each one seems to be trying to do his best to maintain the high standards which their father and mother set for them. A wonderful legacy was left to the family. Their children have a testmony of the gospel. They were taught to put the Church first in their lives, to have family prayers, and to stay close to one another. We regret that most of the grandchildren were not privileged to know their Buehner grandparents. We all pray constantly that our own children will somehow feel their influence and be able to measure up to the heritage which they made possible for them. In retrospect, the family solidarity this family so much enjoys seems to have come from the strength and dedication of two wonderful people, Grandma and Grandpa Buehner, who loved the gospel above all else and tried their best to live it. ——— - A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels.... My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head (Proverbs 1:5, 8-9). In Memoriam-Elder George Q. Morris February 20, 1874—April 25, 1962 ELDER GEORGE Q. MORRIS LDER George Q. Morris, a member of the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 23, 1962, in his eighty-ninth year of age. He had been an apostle since 1954, and a devoted leader in the Church since his early manhood. His earnest faith, his knowledge of the principles of the gospel, his natural eloquence, and his simplicity of spirit endeared him to thousands throughout the Church and in the communities where he has lived. Endowed with a firm desire for learning, for spiritual development, and for service to his fellow men, Elder Morris came to the Council of the Twelve well fitted for his Page 408 ministry as a special witness of Jesus Christ. Following his graduation from the University of Utah in 1899, Elder Morris spent three years as a missionary in the British Mission, serving in the Welsh Conference, the homeland of some of his ancestors. Later, he became presiding elder of the London Conference. In 1904, Elder Morris began his long career and association with the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, as superintendent in the Salt Lake Stake. Later, he became a bishop in the Fourteenth Ward. In 1924 he was appointed a member of the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association and was committee chairman for the Improvement Era. In 1928, he was called to be a counselor in the Ensign Stake presidency, and, until 1935, he served in both capacities, in his stake assignment and his calling in the MIA. In 1935, Elder Morris was named a counselor in the General Superintendency of the MIA. He served under the late Elder Albert E. Bowen for two years, and when Elder Bowen was called to the Council of the Twelve, Elder Morris succeeded him as General Superintendent of the MIA, in 1937. He held this position with honor and distinction, devoting his great energy and his remarkable gifts of leadership to the advancement of the youth of the Church. In 1948, Elder Morris was appointed Presi- IN MEMORIAM — ELDER GEORGE Q. MORRIS dent of the Eastern States Mission. Three years later, at the October Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, Elder Morris was called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. Elder Morris, always interested in the historical heritage of the Latter-day Saints, served as executive chairman of the "This Is the Place" monunrent commission. It was under his charge that the great monument was erected at the mouth of Emigration Canyon, commemorating the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley. Elder Morris was also active in association with President George Albert Smith and others in marking and preserving Utah's trails and landmarks, being executive vice-president of the Utah Pioneer Trails Association. He was also a distinguished member of the Sons of the Utah Pioneers Association, lending his appreciative enthusiasm and his wise direction to the many projects and lasting accomplishments of this organization. In 1946 and 1947, Elder Morris was associated with President David O. McKay 409 in preparing for the centennial observance of the arrival of the first pioneers in the promised valley. Throughout his long and useful life, Elder Morris exemplified in all his devoted Church service, a great knowledge and a consistent awareness of the gospel as the continuing pattern of eternal life. Elder Morris married Emma Ramsey in the Salt Lake Temple in 1905. They observed their golden wedding anniversary in 1955. Sister Morris and three daughters and one granddaughter survive Elder Morris. The daughters are Mrs. Edward A. (Margery) Woods, Miss Marion Morris, and Mrs. Roy T. (Helen) Stewart. The members of Relief Society in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend their love and sympathy to the family of Elder Morris, and join with the membership of the Church in gratitude to our Heavenly Father for the dedicated and exemplary life of Elder Morris, and for the example of his wisdom, his kindness and devotion, his spiritual guidance, and his lofty ideals. $44 And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the rock of our Redeemer, who is Christ, the Son of God, that ye must build your foundation... Which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men build they cannot fail (Helaman 5:12). PART IIl—BATHSHEBA W. SMITH Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting made by an unknown artist \\/ RS. Bathsheba W. Smith, who | was General President of the Relief Societies of the Church from 1901 to 1910, was well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was born at Shinnston, West Virginia, on May 3, 1822. She joined the Church in August 1837, when she was fifteen years of age. The year following her baptism she went with her parents to Missouri, and at Quincy, Illinois, in the spring of 1839, she saw the Prophet for the first time and heard him speak. In 1841 she was married to George A. Smith, a cousin of the Prophet, and Page 410 at that time the youngest of the apostles. Sister Smith wrote the following in 1905. She died in Salt Lake City in 1910, the last one of those faithful sisters present at the first meeting of Relief Society in 1842. "T joined the Church in Harrison County, West Virginia, in 1837. Not long afterwards, in the fall of 1838, I was very anxious to go to Missouri. I told my sister I wanted to go with her. She said, "Oh no'; and as there was only one wagon for the family to travel in, she could not take me. It hurt my feelings very much and I commenced to cry. When I went upsstairs to bed a voice said to me, "Weep not; you will go this fall.' I wiped my eyes and was as happy as anybody you ever saw. Next morning my sister said, "You have got over feeling so badly, because you could not go to Missouni.' 'But I am going this fall' was my reply. I felt just that sure about it. That was the first time I felt the whisperings of the voice of inspiration to me, but it has come to me since, in many of the worries and perplexities of life and given me assurance and peace. "Father sold his farm in West Virginia, and we moved to Missouri in 1838. We went to Illinois in February 1839, but did not see the Prophet Joseph until the spring, when he got out of prison and came SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH to Illinois. A conference was called soon after Joseph and his brethren arrived at Quincy. My brother took my sisters and me and went to that conference, and there I saw Joseph for the first time and heard him speak. I knew he was a Prophet of God, when I joined the Church, before I saw him; my testimony was strengthened when I heard him preach, though at this time I did not get to speak to him. I do not remember when I did first speak to him and shake hands with him. "The Prophet was a handsome man—splendid looking, a large man, tall and fair. He had a very nice complexion, his eyes were blue, and his hair a golden brown. "My first impressions were that he was an extraordinary man—a man of great penetration; he was different from any other man I ever saw; he had the most heavenly countenance, was genial, affable and kind, and looked the soul of honor and integrity. "T have heard the Prophet Joseph preach many a time. I have heard him prophesy, and I never knew but that everything came to pass that he said. "Joseph said we would come to the Rocky Mountains, and he had a company of young men selected to hunt a location for a home for the Saints. Samuel W. Richards was one of that company. I heard of it when we were in Illinois, and _ remember an old lady coming in and talking to my mother, about what Joseph the Prophet had said that we would be in the Rocky Mountains sometime. I said I would like to go soon; I would like to get away from our enemies. She gave me a 411 right good scolding, saying it was terrible to think of going to the Rocky Mountains. "Joseph attended one of our Relief Society meetings in the lodge room. He opened the meeting by prayer. His voice trembled very much, after which he addressed us. He said: 'According to my prayer I will not be with you long to teach and instruct you, and the world will not be troubled with me much longer.' "My testimony today is, I know Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet, as well as I know anything; I know that he was just what he professed to be. I am the only one now living who had her endowments while he was alive, and I received them in Nauvoo before the Temple was built. I have seen many good men, but they had not the gift and blessing that Joseph had. He was truly a Prophet of God" (Young Woman's Journal, December 1905). SMITH BATHSHEBA W. HAND TO THE PLOW PART Il —-A QUESTION TO BE ANSWERED Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia, awaiting a train to take them westward. For a compelling reason, the emigrant wishes to stop at a small town in Pennsylvania. HE emigrant was stunned. The ceaseless speech of this man, who was the pattern from whom all future talkative railroaders was cut, bewildered her. Her heart raced with his words across the back of his imaginary map, and already she felt that trudging feet and burdened shoulders were the chief requisites of land travel. At her back was an ocean, ceaselessly rolling. It had consumed nearly seven tossing weeks of life. Fearsome as were the deeps of the sea to a land-reared woman, still more terrifying and confusing, now, was this proffered continent of thousands of miles of earth stretching to the valleys of the mountains where refuge was assured. But the hegira of getting to that haven was so uncertain, so mystifying, that the emigrant was led to question her momentous decision to transplant herself on the other side of the earth from that of her birth. Last spring, in South Wales, no one had painted this picture of railroads with varied placed rails and cooking stoves in each car, -and soldiers running one's children out to a bush for concealment from the wind. 'The American Civil War, Page 412 between the North and the South, had been mentioned only casually. Surely the war was not near her path to the great rivers and the high mountains. She had concluded that as long as the South was the rebel in the affair, that the North had marched deep in and had thus protected her route to the Rockies. A vague impression had been left with her that this rebellion had taken on the aspects of guerrilla warfare, was a hit-or-miss affair, and would certainly be out of her way by the summer of this year, 1864. How mistaken she was. Although spokesmen in the emigration department referred to this as the last year of the war, and not as the fourth, how were they to be certain of that word last? A week ago, back in Castle Gardens, while they explained to the uniformed emigration authorities about where they were from and where they were going and how many there were of them, and how old they were, and how it was that she had no husband to protect her, and how it was that they spoke English, while claiming Welsh nationality, all was confusion. In the midst of this, a side conversation was indulged in which gave her restless nights and uneasy days. Her informant had called this conflict a blood-brother war. He said that fathers and sons met on battlefields and took each other's lives. He described the burning of 414 a great valley where dogs crept away to die, and where refugees had swarmed out of reach of the flames as cattle will stampede before a prairie fire. 'The emigrant had shuddered, but had relented the day she had promised her dying husband to begin, and finish, their journey to America without that strong arm she had leaned on since bridehood. To come to a war was not what she had dreamed of for a dozen years. But it was too late now to turn back. Even her sixteen-year-old Eliza vowed that she would rather die in a war than sail a stormy ocean in constant peril. 'The course now was to traverse this scene of contention, to get to the other side of the continent, even though plains and Indians and a bloody war interposed the way. PON her insistence that she wanted tickets for as far west as the agent's line could carry them, he took her money and gave her a piece of square cardboard upon which was a picture of a railroad engine and a few initials which denoted ownership of the same. She thoughtfully placed the ticket in a drawstring bag of smallish size, a homely thing that never left her person, and turned in the indented tracks in the wooden floor to join her children huddled near their pile of miscellaneous property. At that moment the ticket agent remembered something she had asked about, a little town in Pennsylvania called Bradys Bend. He hadn't answered her about it, especially as she had added that she wasn't really going there anyway. So now he raised his voice and called RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 to her, and to get her attention, he barged on as at first. "That town now. My cousin's daughter used to live there. Not much of a place, one might gather. Just coal people and a railroad to carry off the coal, and more smoke than healthy people should be breathing. Not many people live there, either. Mostly a foreign town, Welsh. Mostly hadn't bothered to speak English since coming over from the old country. Say, know anyone there, lady?" He never ceased his talking. His questions were not meant to be answered. He was indeed the original information bureau of the railroads. However, the emigrant did venture one more question. "How far will we be from Bradys Bend if we stay on this train?" she quietly asked. Her tone almost stopped the agent, for she had turned squarely toward him and was so quiet that he believed she wanted a quiet answer. In fact, she raised a finger to her lips to hush him in his reply. And because he was brash and insensitive to delicate signals, let alone this universal one to talk softly, he said in his usual station voice, as if talking to deaf people, "Well, lady, I'd say it was about twentyfive miles from where you will be when you reach Pittsburgh. That is as the cow flies, but a little farther along the Allegheny River. 'That's how the town got its name, because of the bend in the river." The emigrant could stand no more. She wished she could faint dead away rather than hear one more word about Bradys Bend. At her leaving him, the agent shrugged a little, and clicked his HAND TO THE PLOW tongue and thought about how many funny people came by his window in the station. And the questions they asked, too. It would seem as though if one asked a question, one would at least stay long enough to get a civil answer. HE emigrant dragged herself toward her little brood. She noted that the little one was already asleep with her head in the lap of her bigger sister. 'The three boys stood up as she came near and were straining to get on the way now that the ticket was purchased. Even before she reached them, they considered themselves dismissed from their temporary vigil as guards to their sisters, 415 and without waiting for permission, they threaded their way out of the station. Through the door she saw them leap off the platform and sprint down the street, each trying to outdo the other in speed and form. 'They would be back in a moment with questions, but for now they must run off their spirits, already too pent-up for comfort. She counted the property, just from habit, threw a shawl over little Sannie, and sat on the bench just vacated by the boys. Eliza, the teenage daughter, unable to move lest she awaken little Sannie, was startled to hear her mother say determinedly, "No, I cannot do it!'' (To be continued ) Ida Elaine James I know a thing, I know a thing! The birds must know it for they sing! And why should all the flowers turn bright Unless they, too, heard it aright? A ( The leaves know it, the winds blow it Softly where they nod and kiss —: Now why should they do this? If flowers below and trees above E Nod and mingle in their love, = It must be because it's spring; The secret's out — that's why they sing! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, June 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE BEST LIGHT AND KNOWLEDGE: In these last days that are so pregnant with evil tendencies and influences, and the insidious foes that lurk on every side to lead astray the innocent and unwary... All that makes for better hopes and aspirations, purer motives and correct living should be fostered and maintained.... If our sisters only lived up to their privileges what an influence they might exert over their associates.... Remember always that the Gospel is first... And will lead to the fount of all true wisdom. — Editorial GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY: Mrs. Leah Dunford Widtsoe... Addressed the conference upon Domestic Science.... Referred to the daughters who expect to marry and become mothers, thought they should be taught in the science of housekeeping and home making.... Our girls many of them never do anything in their homes, she knew of girls who had a fine education, could play the piano, but could not even make a plain gingham apron, and they marry and are not qualified to perform the duties or superintend the home.... One of the first things necessary is to know how to make good bread. Mothers are sometimes at fault in not teaching the girls because it is easier to do it themselves, but it is the duty of every gitl to look into these domestic matters and prepare for home making and life will be sweeter and better.... — E. B. Wells, Secretary THE MASTER'S STROKE Touch Thou with gentle strokes divine, oh Lord! Discordant tendrils of life's harpsichord; O, let the vibrant echoes thus awoke Within men's souls, ennobling thoughts evoke. Let sweetest accents from the worlds unknown, Change solemn moan to gentle patient tone. Sublime, triumphant anthems fill the air, To lift all human hearts from mirage of despair. — Ellis R. Shipp OUR NEW DEPARTURE: Our new departure in this first issue of the new volume is giving our readers the pictures of some of the girl students of the Latter-day Saints University in Salt Lake City. One sees at a glance in their faces innocence, truthfulness and a high order of intelligence. It is not given to any of us to read the future, but we are safe in predicting for these young girls a fulness of development, physical, moral, spiritual and intellectual as the years go by, if the best use is made of the opportunities now opening before them. — Editorial NOTES: We are too fond of our own will. We want to be doing what we fancy as mighty things; but the great point is to do small things, when called to them, in a right spirit.. —R. Cecil Page 416 ¢ 4 | ante 4 0 ¢ a Wn Gow Tn OS daad 'ie \egpeas »F Rowe HEA Wie! Yo ONES ARGERY FISHER is the author of Intent Upon Reading (Franklin Watts, publisher), a critical appraisal of children's fiction from 1930 to 1960, which also includes comments on outstanding books for children written in an earlier time. Approaches at classification of this field of literature are made in the various chapters which discuss picture books, books for children six to nine, books on animals, fantasies, formula tales, adventure stories, and family narratives. RINCESS SUGA,_ youngest daughter of Emperor Hirohito and Empress Nagako of Japan, last year married a commoner. On April fourth she gave birth to a son, the Emperor's seventh grandchild. Since the baby's father is a commoner, the child will not be in the line of succession to the throne. RS. RUTH BIDDULPH, the recipient of a Delta Kappa Gamma scholarship for $2,500, will continue her graduate work at Indiana University. The Delta Kappa Gamma sorority is an honorary women teachers society, which makes available one scholarship for each State in the Nation. Mrs. Biddulph, a teacher of English at Ricks Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon @& We Ww ® ® BB BB B BOB BB B8® College, Rexburg, and a Latter-day Saint woman, won the Idaho scholarship. DeOks HAWLEY, wife of Dr. Harold Hawley of New York State, and Lorna Johnson, wife of Lavern Johnson, of Illinois, are farm wives who help their husbands make farming pay generously. Dr. Hawley has a Ph. D. Degree in agricultural economics; his wife has a master's degree in home economics. Dr. Hawley worked out an accounting system that takes into consideration every smallest item of cost and profit. Mrs. Johnson handles the accounting work. EVERAL Latter-day Saint women participated in the national convention of Penwomen held in Washington, D. C., in April. They are: Wilma Bunker, national president; Mrs. Erla Young, co-chairman of the art workshop; Mrs. Virginia Evans, hostess of the Korean Embassy Tea; Mrs. Fiametta Fausett, co-chairman of the craft exhibit; Mrs. Mirla Thayne, hostess at the German Embassy tea; Mrs. Mabel Harmer, chairman of the contest for teenage books; Mrs. Mabel Jones Gabbott, in charge of the contest for juvenile verse. Page 417 EDITORIAL VOL. 49 JUNE 1962 NO. 6 HE 132d Annual Confer- } ence of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter- — day Saints was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 6, 7, and 8, 1962. President David O. McKay, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, conducted all of the general sessions, and was assisted during the conference by President Henry D. Moyle and President Hugh B. Brown. All of the General Authorities were in attendance at the conference sessions except Elder Delbert L. Stapley and Elder George QO. Morris of the Council of the Twelve, who were ill; Elder John Longden, Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who was touring the Pacific area; Elder Bruce R. McConkie and Elder Marion D. Hanks of the First Council of the Seventy who are serving as missions presidents in Australia and Great Britain, respectively. Leaders from all the wards and branches, stakes and missions of the Church throughout the world were present for the conference sessions. By means of translators and earphones, Dutch, Spanish, and German leaders were enabled to hear the conference proceedings in their own tongues. A vast network of television and radio stations carried the conference messages to thousands of people across the United States, and for the first time, an international audience heard prophetic words from Temple Page 418 Square — majestic tones of the great organ, and the voices of the choir praising the Lord. Five short wave channels beamed from Boston, three in English and two in Spanish, directed the proceedings to Europe, South Africa, South America, Central America, and Mexico. It was reported that during the year 1961 an additional 130,481 people became members of the Church, making a total of 1,823,661 members in all the world. At the close of 1961 there were 345 stakes and sixtyfour missions. Throughout the conference sessions, reference was made to the opportunities of members of the Church to become "shining lights" and help illumine the troubled world, and to seek eternal life in the kingdom of Jesus Christ. As expressed by President McKay, the principal message of the conference exemplified "the reality of God the Father and his Son _ Jesus Christ." N his opening address, President McKay described the organization of the Church in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, April 6, 1830, and referred to the inspired words of the Lord as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith that "A great and marvelous work is about to come forth among the children of men." "Faith in the existence of an intelligent Creator," said President McKay, "was the first element that EDITORIAL contributed to the perpetuity of the Church, the everlasting foundation on which the Church is built." He declared that the gospel teaches that Christ is the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world. One of the two great general principles to which all others are subsidiary is this: "Love your neighbor as yourself...." The gospel bids the strong bear the burdens of the weak, and to use the advantages given them by their larger opportunities in the interest of the common good that the whole level of humanity may be lifted, and the path of spiritual attainment opened to the weakestand most unlearned, as well as to the strong and intelligent.... RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle emphasized the everlasting importance of revelation and direction from God in all ages: We know and bear witness to the world that the survival of our faith in God is dependent upon present day direction from God. How impotent is man when he is left alone with only the revelations of the past. Without present day revelation, the very foundation upon which this last dispensation of the fulness of times was built, would crumble. There can be no fulness of the gospel without revelation, noW OF ever. Joseph Smith must continue to be recognized by the Church and the world to be the modern day lawgiver by whom the gospel of Jesus Christ was restored to the earth in its pristine purity. RESIDENT Hugh B. Brown emphasized the characteristics, the duties, and the responsibilities incumbent upon those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ: 419. There is one doctrinal event which foreshadows and overshadows all other Christian doctrine... The atonement of Christ.... Faith in this one transcendent event, the most important in all history, is the enduring foundation upon which the true Christian gospel is built. Upon it the salvation of the whole human family depends. [NX his closing address, President McKay blessed the saints throughout the world and enjoined them to obedience to the gospel, and declared his strong and vibrant testmony: In our daily desire for material success and pleasure, we have a tendency to neglect the importance of the Creator's place in our hearts and in our homes; and in social intercourse we are prone to neglect the importance of making the Creator the center of our lives. Our religion is not a cloak to wear on Sunday and hang in the closet for the rest of the week, neither is it something for nations to parade on certain occasions and then to wrap up in mothballs to await another occasion. Men today are rapidly classifying themselves into two groups: believers and nonbelievers..... The gospel of Jesus Christ is the plan whereby our hearts and lives and towns and nations can be united in bringing about universal peace and the brotherhood of man. God lives! So does Jesus Christ, his beloved Son, who gave the gospel, the eternal plan of salvation of the human soul.... God bless you brethren and sisters, may you carry back to your wards and stakes and missions the spirit of this great, greatest of all conferences ever held in the Church. To You With Love Betty Lou Martin HE valley was aglow with the warm, fresh beauty gam) Of spring, and the city a= seemed to bustle with renewed energy. 'The familiar smell of dry leaves and grass being burned seemed to fill the air. Spring is finally here, the young mother thought as she walked along the street, pushing her small son in his stroller. 'The grass gets greener every day. Joyce Vance moved slowly along the streets of the small college town. The campus was one of the loveliest in the entire State, and she couldn't help feeling slightly sentimental as she strolled by the buildings. "There have been many good memories here," Joyce sighed as she stopped for a moment to adjust Bobbie's cap. "Here now, dear, it isn't quite warm enough to take your cap off yet." Joyce was approaching the university apartments where she and Roger had lived for the past five years. It was home now, and they accepted it. 'They had done their best to fix up the apartment, and even though it was small, they had managed. Just the will to manage, Joyce thought as she remembered all her dreams of the house that they would live in when she married. Joyce had waited for Roger while he was on his mission. She hadn't minded really. 'The time had gone by swiftly and soon Roger was home. She hadn't objected, either, when Roger expressed his desire to go on and finish college. However, she Page 420 had wished inwardly that he would settle down to a job. She wanted a home of her own. All her life she and her mother had been moved from one city to another by her father. It wasn't her father's fault that his job had transferred him all over the state. "My goodness, Bobbie, it is almost five o'clock." Joyce quickened her pace. "We had _ better hurry home and get your father some dinner. He has to go to work tonight." Once inside the apartment, Joyce made the baby comfortable and then began preparing dinner. I wonder what it will be like not to have to economize at every turn. After five years of it, I doubt very much that I ' will ever be able to get out of the habit, Joyce thought. "Dinner ready, Joyce?" Roger called cheerfully as he picked up Bobbie and walked into the kitchen that was really only a partition from the living room. "Something smells good." Roger was tall, with dark hair and blue eyes. Joyce thought he looked tired and that the strain of school and work was taking its toll. "You say that every night, my dear husband, even though we have about the same thing," Joyce explained patiently. "Tt won't always be this way." Roger tried to console Joyce. "Besides, I think that it has been good for us to have to economize. At least now we know how." "That is just about all that you TO YOU WITH LOVE can say for it." Joyce set the steaming bowl of potatoes on the table. "You better get washed up now. Dinner is ready." FTER Roger had left for work and Joyce was finishing up the dishes, she couldn't help feeling guilty as she thought back over the way she had spoken to Roger. I shouldn't have talked to him that way. After all, it is just as difficult for him as it is for me. He is the one who has to go to school, study, and keep up a part-time job. Joyce glanced up at the calendar. Oh, well, if things worked out, Roger should have only six more months of school left. Suddenly Joyce stared at the dates on the calendar. Why it is Roger's birthday next week. I almost forgot. What will I ever do for money to buy him a birthday present? The next few days passed by hurniedly, and still Joyce had not come to a solution as to how she would be able to afford a present for Roger. Just this once she wanted to give him something really nice, something that would help him over these last few months of school. It had been such a difficult struggle, and this last winter had seemed to be worse than the others. Now their rent was due, and they had to have some repairs made on the car. There just wouldn't be any money left over at all. One evening Roger and Joyce were down town buying groceries when Roger stopped by a sporting goods shop and admired the reel and rod fishing combination displayed in the window. "Look, honey," he called to Joyce. "When I get out of school and we 421 get enough money ahead, this is what I am going to have." Roger's eyes fairly twinkled with admiration. "Isn't that a beauty?" "Too bad you can't have it for this summer, dear," Joyce remarked. "You could at least have a little enjoyment out of it now." "Oh, I can wait. I can still use father's fishing equipment. We just have to wait for these things." Joyce frowned. "I just wish that I had your patience." she strained to see the price tag on the fishing equipment. It was $19.95. Later, on their way home, Roger said, "That reminds me. I almost forgot to give you our tithing money. We will have to pay it this next Sunday." Roger opened his wallet and took out some bills. "That's right, it is fast day this Sunday." Joyce reached to take the money from Roger's hand. Then suddenly the thought struck her. Just this once it will be all night. We have always paid our tithing promptly before. Roger wouldn't agree with me for postponing it, but he doesn't have to know. I'll be able to make up our tithing in the next few months. Joyce seemed to relax now. I've found a way, she thought. Roger will have that new fishing equipment for his birthday. T the campus branch of Relief Society, Joyce sat by her good friend Melba Anders. "Melba," she said, "can you come to town with me after meeting? I have to get Roger's birthday present." Melba nodded just as the Relief Society president stood up to start the meeting. All through the lesson Joyce tried to concentrate, but her thoughts kept wandering to buy- 422 ing the present for Roger. E: xcitement surged through her. Chances are that Roger will forget about our tithing receipt. I have always taken care of them anyway. After meeting, Joyce and Melba walked toward their car. "My, but you are lucky to be able to buy Roger a present. It has been so long since I have given Cliff anything for his birthday. All I can ever manage is a birthday card and a cake. What are you going to buy?" "Oh, I had my eye on a reel and rod combination that Roger was admiring. I am so excited, Melba, I can't wait to give it to him." "Won't that be quite expensive?" Melba questioned. "TI really don't mean to be inquisitive, but I thought that you two were having a pretty rugged time of it." Joyce lowered her voice. "We are, Melba, and I want to do something I am not sure is the right thing. I want to use our tithing money this month for his present. 'Then I'll make it up in the next few months, and pay double then." "Joyce, you wouldn't do that." Melba couldn't hide her disapproval. "Don't. It is so difficult to get back on a regular schedule, after once postponing a sacred obligation." "Why, Melba, you remember telling me you did the same thing once," Joyce reminded Melba. "Yes I did, and I've regretted that postponement ever since. When we paid our tithing regularly, everything went so smoothly it was unbelievable. 'Then I got the idea that I just had to have some new curtains. Cliff didn't know about it, either, and believe me, when he found out, I know that he lost some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 of his respect for me. After that we had one thing after another come up. First I broke my glasses, then the baby got sick, and we just kept getting further behind. I ended up regretting my decision, and I have been very prompt ever since." Melba touched Joyce's arm. "You have a couple of days before Roger's birthday. 'Think about it for awhile. Then, if you still feel that same way, Pll go down with you to buy the present, but please think about it some more. You wouldn't want your blessings to be postponed." "Well, I guess that I can wait a couple of days, but I do plan to make up the tithing," Joyce added. "Joyce, Roger gave that money to you to pay the Lord. He trusted you with it for that. If you let him down, you let yourself down, too." Melba paused, thinking that she had been too outspoken. OYCE was in a turmoil when she arrived home. Her mind had been made up to buy the fishing equipment, and now she didn't know what to do. She was strug: gling within herself to do what she wanted to do, when she knew what the right thing to do was. Then, as if from out of nowhere, Joyce remembered something her grandmother had told her when she was a very small child, "Always pay the Lord first, and there will be plenty left over for the necessities. You'll never go hungry." Slowly Joyce walked through the apartment. 'The years that Roger had been going to school they had always had enough to eat, although not expensive things. 'Their apartment was comfort<''2, much nicer than the homes of many of the mar- TO YOU WITH LOVE ried students. There was the rich brown carpet that Roger's parents had given them, the golden drapes and beige chair that her parents had been kind enough to buy for them, and the couple who had lived there before them had left their kitchen set. We have been fortunate and so blessed, Joyce realized. I just can't take away from the Lord what is rightfully his. He has given us so much. The next day Joyce planned carefully to make Roger's birthday special even though he wouldn't be getting a special birthday present. It was a happy time for her, and little Bobbie seemed to sense the excitement and gaiety of the event as Joyce made Roger's birthday present. A beautifully set table, with pink candles glowing softly, greeted Roger as he stepped into the apartment the evening of his birthday. Joyce greeted him in a crisp, pink cotton dress. Her golden hair gleamed in the candlelight. "Happy birthday, dear," she said gently as she kissed Roger's cheek. "Dinner is just about ready." The evening was spent happily remembering birthdays past, and discussing future plans. Joyce had put off giving Roger his present as long as she could, and when she handed it reluctantly to him, she was fearful that he would not like it. "It isn't much, dear, but I wanted to give you something. I really wanted to buy you the new fishing equipment, but I guess that will have to come later." Roger's eyes clearly reflected love as he slowly opened the card that was attached to the package. He added, "You know that I wouldn't 423 have enjoyed the fishing equipment, Joyce, knowing that we really could not afford it." OGER read the card. At the bottom of the verse was inscribed simply, "To you with love, Joyce and Bobbie." "T wish that you would hurry and get that package unwrapped, Roger," Joyce said anxiously. Even Bobbie squealed in anticipation. "You know that I am not any good at unwrapping packages, honey." Roger's fingers were clumsy as he tried to manage first the green ribbon, then the white paper. Finally he lifted the lid of the box and before him was a photograph album. "It is an inexpensive one, Roger, but I spent a great deal of time putting the pictures in it. I started out with pictures of our wedding day and went on consistently, up until now." Tenderly Roger opened the book. The first picture was of their wedding reception, the reception line, the cutting of the cake, and just before they left for their honeymoon. Each page told a different story, and each page brought back a memory of happiness past and anticipation of many happy days to come. A page was dedicated to Roger's parents and brothers and sisters and a page to Joyce's family. "These are photographs that we have been collecting for a long time, Roger." Joyce tried to break the silence. She wished that Roger would speak. After looking at each page carefully, Roger closed the book. He reached for Joyce's hand. "I only hope that we will be able to fill the rest of these pages with as many 424 happy moments as are shown in these first pages. Joyce, this is the nicest present that I have ever had, and it shows the love that was put into it. In fact this is the nicest birthday I have ever had." The fear that Joyce had felt diminished, and she felt relief in its place. "I was so afraid that you would think I was silly for giving it to you, Roger. I'm so happy." Just then there was a knock at the door, and Melba and Cliff strode in. "Hi, happy birthday, Roger." "Oh, I forgot to tell you that I invited Cliff and Melba over for ice cream and cake," Joyce said. "Well, this is a nice surprise," Roger said to Cliff and Melba. "T'll have to show you my birthday present," he added proudly. "Oh, Roger, please don't." Joyce was embarrassed. Melba took Joyce to one side. "I thought you decided not to give Roger the fishing equipment." "T did, but even if I had bought it for him, I don't think that it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 would have made as much of an impression." Joyce laughed. Puzzled, Melba walked to where Roger and Cliff sat looking at the album and commenting on the pictures. Joyce picked up Bobbie and made her way to the bedroom. Once in the seclusion of the room she turned to the window where the sweet night air drifted in. 'The crickets added their own enchanting song, and the stars beamed down, spreading their soft light upon the earth. Still cuddling Bobbie in her arms, Joyce spoke to him, "Well, Bobbie, I guess that your mother learned a lesson today, and I hope that I can teach you the same thing. Happiness and love can come only from satisfaction in doing the things we know are right, and that is part of the blessing.". Gently she put the baby in his crib and tucked him in. Then she turned to leave the room and join the others. Her heart was light and her happiness complete. 09% June and the Rose Dorothy J. Roberts This is the hour of the rose, The season when the barren thorn Of bitterness no longer rules And the bud of promise is born. This is the secret of the snow, Patience answering the test, The blossoming of tear and sigh, The heart of hope made manifest. Herold MM. Tontbart — SCENE IN NORTHERN IRELAND, NEAR LARNE Before the Word Goes Forth MnDsiGhes Calibeit Before the word goes forth to cleave earth's ill, It must be born in anguish of a soul Compassionate; before it would be whole It must be tempered in the quiet, still L Room of a loving heart; it must be lon Long weathered in the mind's vast corridol And it ine iffer nt, unlistening doo! Must try iWaln, ddl it lonely ni The word must be turned to each on MU iv: clean cleft to compa is id vouth It must be edged with wonder, white as truth, WU ise WV ith the De ut of a hundrec un Thus, fathered forth in ripeness e of its hour Th VOrC in trike Vi th In } pow I Page 425 RECIPES FOR A BRUNCH © oe 427 Wash grapefruit and cut in half, as for breakfast, and with sharp grapefruit knife extract sections and save juice. Discard only membrane. Be careful not to cut the shell of the grapefruit. Soak gelatine in water, adding a little of the juice if necessary. Heat the remainder of juice and dissolve gelatine in hot liquid. Set aside to cool. When cool add the rest of the grapefruit and a few drops of coloring. Add the juice of the lemon and sugar. Pour into the half shells, place in bake pans or cereal dishes, and set in refrigerator to harden. _ CANDIED CARROTS 4 lbs. Carrots - 4 tbsp. Carrot juice lc. Water _ 4 tbsp. Brown sugar 3 tbsp. Butter salt to taste Wash and scrape the carrots and cut in half and quarter the halves. Steam in presto cooker with the cup of water for 5 minutes. Cool quickly and pour off water, reserving 4 tbsp. Of the carrot juice. Put juice in another saucepan, add the brown sugar, butter, and about % tsp. Salt. Cook for a minute and pour the steamed carrots into the saucepan and take out the steam rack from the presto. Pour the carrots carefully back and forth from one kettle to the other until they are well coated. This method keeps the carrots from breaking up and makes them taste good indeed. Serves 14 to 16. SuiceD Beets WitH LEMON JvICE 2 tbsp. Whole cloves = 1 ¢. Sugar 4 sticks cinnamon 2 tbsp. Butter 2 shakes nutmeg juice of 2 or 3 lemons enough cooked cubed beets to make 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 4 pints | 4 tbsp. Water for mixing cornstarch 2 c. Beet juice Put spices in cheesecloth bag and tie. Place in beet juice and cook 2 or 3 minutes, then add sugar, lemon juice, butter, and beets and cook another 2 minutes. Then take out spice bag and pour off juice into another pan and thicken. Cook until done and pour over the beets. Heat and serve. Serves 10 to 12. Color the mixture if lig (Seasonings must be to taste.) The sauce is better tasting if allowed to stand a day or so. Oh Hey Bonus Prize Viola Ashton Candland Innocence and sweetness, Mischievous bright eyes, Mighty spirit stature, "% Miniature size — Small wonder doting grandmothers Love and idolize A precious little grandchild — A little bonus prize! In all phases of the work of Relief Society during 1961 success has been realized in helping to strengthen the testimonies of its members, to notably increase its membership from both Latter-day Saint and non-Latter-day Saint women, to develop existing as well as potential leadership, to give service under the direction of the Priesthood on Church welfare projects, and to the needy, the bereaved, the sick and the aged, and to strengthen the women of the Church in their role as wives, mothers, and homemakers. Through intensive membership building programs, 16,973 new members were added to the ranks of Relief Society making a total membership of 231,175 at the end of 1961. These members are distributed throughout the world in fifty-one foreign lands and each of the fifty states in the United States. Included in these numbers are many new converts to the Church and women not yet baptized. A notable increase was also made in the average attendance at Relief Society meetings. Leadership development opportunities were provided to the 152,98] Relief Society members who served as leaders in the organization, an increase of 10,076, some of whom were women who had been inactive in the Church or were recent converts. These leaders devotedly carried forward the outlined program of the Society in the 405 stake, mission, and district organizations and the 4,922 ward and branch Relief Societies throughout the Church. This represents an increase of 35 stake and mission organizations and 250 ward and branch organizations. The cultivation of music ability was encouraged and cultural refinement fostered through participation in Singing Mothers Choruses by the 41,124 sisters in 2,599 ward and branch choruses. The influence of The Relief Society Magazine was carried into 183,236 homes, for an increase of 12,234 over the previous year. Relief Society ministered to the physical and spiritual needs of members of the Church through a previously unexcelled amount of compassionate service and through the monthly visits by visiting teachers to observe instances of need and to carry a spiritual message into the homes. A total of 100,059 visiting teachers made 3,943,596 visits, an increase of 6,887 visiting teachers and 204,854 visits. Love-inspired service was given through 357,334 visits to the sick and homebound (an increase of 34,780); 30,211 days bedside nursing care of the sick (an increase of 661); and 401,140 hours of other compassionate services such as caring for the family of a mother who was in the hospital, assisting with housekeeping during the illness of a family member, accompanying a sister to a doctor's office or similar services (an increase of 126,087 hours). In addition, Relief Society sisters assisted at 8,846 funerals and dressed 789 bodies for burial. Welfare services given under the direction of the Priesthood included 93,625 visits made by Relief Society presidents to families in need (an increase of 8,154); and a total of 789,807 hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Also, in the stakes of the Church alone, Relief Societies contributed $227,393.98 to ward and stake building, welfare, and other Church programs. Relief Societies in missions also made an important contribution to such programs. The educational and homemaking programs carried forward uniformly in each Society throughout the world were instrumental in helping each member in her own land and within her own culture to be a better wife, mother and homemaker. As a part of the homemaking program a total of 535,853 articles. Were sewed including 22,571 quilts, 53,699 articles of clothing for children, 78,035 for women, and 3,58] for men, in addition to 225,161 non-sewed handicraft articles. Through the blessings of the Lord the work of the organization is steadily moving forward and the responsibilities and challenges given to it by the prophets of the Lord in this period of such rapid growth of the Church are being met. General SecretaryTreasurer 1961 GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION NITED STATES Alabama Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii |daho Hlinois Indiana lowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri IN STAKES Organizations Members IN MISSIONS Organizations TOTALS Organizations Of Relief Society Organizations Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas Utah Vermont Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming and Members Organizations IN STAKES Members IN MISSIONS Organizations TOTALS Organizations OTHER COUNTRIES Argentina Azores Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada Chile Cook Islands Costa Rica Denmark El Salvador England Ethiopia Fiji Islands Finland Formosa France Germany Greece Guam Guatemala Honduras Hong Kong Ireland Italy IN STAKES Organizations 29 858 90 4452 46 1,013 IN MISSIONS Organizations TOTALS Organizations ' 60 Members 742 3 1,422 287 178 1,212 5,447 Japan Korea Libya Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway Okinawa Panama Canal Zone Philippine Islands Paraguay Peru Puerto Rico Samoa Scotland Spain Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Turkey Union of South Africa Uruguay Wales Total—Other Countries Total—United States GRAND TOTAL 14 32 1] 231 25)| 3,142 IN STAKES Organizations 48] 16] 947 224 7,869 188,237 196,106 IN MISSIONS Organizations 1,780 35,069 TOTALS Organizations Members 29,3 201,962 4,922 231,175 or 1960 Tf Decrease MEMBERSHIP Membership (Total) 231,175 In Stakes 196,106 In Missions 35,069 214,202 | 16,973+ 179,207 § 16,8994 34,995 744 ORGANIZATIONS Stake and Mission Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions Ward and Branch Organizations (Total) In Stakes In Missions SINGING MOTHERS Ward and Branch Singing Mothers Choruses (Total) 2,599 3,052 453— In Stakes 2,020 2,403 383— In Missions 579 649 70— Approximate Number of Singers (Total) 41,124 49,564 8 440— In Stakes 34,222 | 41,370 7,148— In Missions 6,902 8,194 1,292— L. D. S. FAMILIES L. D. S. Families (Total) In Stakes In Missions LEADERSHIP Relief Society Members Who Served As Leaders in the Society ~ Stake Officers District and Mission Officers Ward and Branch Officers Other Officers Class Leaders Visiting Teachers MAGAZINE Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions Increase or 1961 1960 | Decrease 460,810 436,970 | 23,840-+ 363,551 | 21,981+- 73,419 1,859+- 385,532 715,218 152,981 3,899 10,076+ 315+ 164+ 1,045+ 478+ 1,187+ 6,887-+- 1,009 18,464 9,930 19,620 100,059 183,236 § 171,002 § 12,2344 400,000 350,000 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 COMPASSIONATE SER DAYS CARE | it lel 1961 VISITS TO THE SICK & HOMEBOUND VICES 1960 HOURS OF OTHER COMPASSIONATE SERVICES R V VISITING TEACHING 1961 100,000 90,000 sos 80,000 - 70,000 + 60,000 50,000 40,000 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 NUMBER OF — VISITING VISITING TEACHERS TEACHER VISITS crs 4,000,000 3,900,000 3,800,000 3,/00,000 3,600,000 3,500,000 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE Days Care of the Sick Visits to Sick and Homebound Number of Hours of Other Compassionate Services Bodies Dressed for Burial Funerals at which Relief Society Assisted Wards and Branches Maintaining Lists of Nurses (Total) In Stakes In Missions CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE Family Visits Made Under Direction of Bishop Hours Contributed by All Females on Welfare Projects Relief Society Members Who Assisted on Any Welfare Project During the Year Hours Contributed on Welfare Projects by All Females Receiving Church Welfare Assistance Sisters Rece Who S iving Church Welfare Assistance ewed for Themselves and Families 1961 30,211 357,334 401,140 789 8,846 3,214 2,967 647 93,625 789,807 54,422 224,430 4,532 or Decrease 1960 VISITING TEACHING Visiting Teachers Visiting Teacher Districts Family Visits (Total) Home Not Home Per Cent at Home Communications in Lieu of Visits 29,550 322,554 661+ 34,780-+- 275,053 640 8,645 126,087+- 149+ 201+ 3,031 2,391 640 183+- 176+- T+ An average of 8.56 visits was SEWING SERVICE Articles Completed (Total) Sewed Articles (Total) Quilts Children's Clothing Women's Clothing Men's Clothing Household Furnishings Other (Miscellaneous) Non-Sewed Articles (Total) Sewing Machines Owned by Societies (Total) In Stakes In Missions 85,471 8,154-+4 773,616 16,1314 54,766 344— 220,733 3,697+- 4,595 1961 52,491 made to each family in 1961. An average of 8.56 visits was made to each family in 1960. 761,014 935,853 22,57] 53,699 78,035 3,581 204,236 173,731 225,161 4,631 4,048 583 100,059 3,943,596 2,628,319 © 1,315,277 66.64% 103,246 1960 93,172 49,096 3,738,742 2,490,584 1,248, 158 66.61% 80,146 655,793 477,863 22,701 47,785 70,764 3,073 191,505 142,035 177,930 4,416 3,878 538 or Decrease 6887-4 3395+ 204,854-+4 137,735-+4 67,1194. 23,100-+- 105,221 + 57,990-+ 130— 59144 721+ 508+ 12,7314. 31,6964 47,2314. 2154 170-+- 454 1961 TOTAL MEETINGS HELD Relief Society General Conference Stake Relief Society Conventions Stake and Mission Meetings (Total) Stake and Mission District Board Stake and Mission Leadership 198,339 | 152,594 28,635 17,110 Ward and Branch Meetings (Total) 206,197 Regular Meetings for Members 160,821 Visiting Teacher Meetings 31,013 Special Meetings 14,363 Increase or Decrease VISITS BY STAKE AND MISSION OFFICERS Visits to Wards and Branches (Total) By Stake Officers By Mission and District Officers AVERAGE ATTENDANCE Regular Meetings for Members (Total) In Stakes In Missions Theology Work Literature Social Science Visiting Teacher Meetings Relief Society Leadership Meetings CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements Cash Balance on Hand January 1, 196] oe. Cece eceeee$1,760,716.12 Receipts Ce 3,498,433.80 OT O_o SS..$5,259,149.92 CUMAUPSERNCINTS® coves. Sve sovewvess. Avee:.--. O00lllisseoncsocse-seosensecncesecccocecesecceeeeneeee 3,289,093.35 Cash Balance on Hand December 31, 196] ee$1,970,056.57 1961 29,236 22 382 6,854 Per Cent 38.4 36.7 47.0 41.3 39.0 36.2 37.] By 45.3 Assets — December 31, 1961 Net Cash on Hand December 3] oui eceecccececeecsceeeseceeseseceeeseeeeees Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishops Office Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) Real Estate and Buildings c. Ccccceeeseececceeeeeceeeeescesecsneeceeeeeees Total Assseits:.. Cccccececcccc sees 1960 Increase or Decrease 916+ 251+ 665+ 1960 Per Cent 36.9 36.0 41.4 39.8 36.7 34.8 36.1 'on 43.2 $1,970,056.57 407 Tae? 82,047.64 104,649.36 $2,579,665.79 Toddler's Cover-Apron Shirley Thulin ERE'S a wonderful help for busy mothers with tiny tots! Stitch several easy-tomake, easy-to-launder toddlers' cover-aprons, as in the illustration. You will cut your ironing time way down, for they open flat to press, or even better, make them of seersucker and don't bother with ironing at all. MATERIALS NEEDED: You will need % yard of printed percale or seersucker (or more, if. A larger coverapron is desired), and 6% yards of double-fold bias tape in accenting colors. (You can use leftover prints from other sewing projects, or even printed flour sacks.) 4" POCKET ee tS} ie sr ARMHOLE 32 " 36" Page 438 CUT: Make a paper pattern, following the pictured diagram. O MAKE: Bind the entire outside edge of cover-apron and raw edges of armholes with bias tape. A. Fold each pocket in half, wrong sides together. And stitch in place 3" from the lower edge and 42" apart. 4. LER'S COVER-APRON Open center fold of tape and stitch a casing on the right side 1% top along the top edge for the drawstring to be threaded through. Make a drawstring 40" long by stitching the folded edges of bias together. Iat this in the casing and knot each end so it won't pull through. Now it is ready to slip on the child. Pull the ties to gather up around the neck. The toddlers' cover-apron may be worn alone or to cover like an apron. RN H™ Narrow Valley Zara Sabin "Is it not too bad?" they said — When at her service someone read She had been born, had lived and died In one small town. Their cheeks, scarce dried, Were wet again.... "To spend her life As child, as maid, as mother, wife, In this narrow valley?" Narrow valley? Yes, it was true. The hills were close and steep, the view Cut off on either side, yet she Looked at the stars. Instinctively, Her thoughts reached up to higher things And knew that more than birds have wings, Even in a valley. She heard the first bluebird, or kept Close vigil where a sick child slept; Baked bread and cakes and sang the while; Walked her Savior's extra mile; Then, when her children all were grown, She died, and had not even known This was a narrow valley. " from the Bind the outside edge. Center - %, ay a. Eer, | US * % $a » < Pah: =e,. * > whore rs as ALMA ANDERSON — SPECIALIST WITH NEEDLE AND CROCHET HOOK LMA Lofstrom Anderson, Roosevelt, Utah, is a specialist with needle and crochet hook. Her handwork and machine sewing are examples of exquisite workmanship. She designs and crochets doilies and many other articles, as well as making beautiful aprons and many other pieces of clothing. As she often remarks, her sewing basket ls her constant companion. An expert quilter, she has marked "hundreds and hundreds" of quilts for quilting. Even before she went to school in her native Sweden, she learned to crochet and knit and hem and seam by hand, and was trained as a tailor. As a convert to the Church, she came to Utah in 1898, and later pioneered a homestead near Roosevelt. Long devoted to Relief Society and active in stake and ward positions, she has served as a visiting teacher, work meeting leader, counselor, and president. Her six children, fourteen grandchildren, and twenty-four great-grandchildren are her choicest blessings and she refers to them as the crown of her long and happy life. Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies.... She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.... She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff.... She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet (Proverbs 31:10, 13, 19, 21). Page 440 Leftover Disguises Janet W. Breeze H°"' has your refrigerator been lately — subject to a daily invasion by a small bowlful of this and a tablespoon of that? If so, welcome aboard! The problem seems to be universal, but not one without its solution. 'To minimize waste and stretch what may otherwise seem a completely unelastic food budget, try to keep some of the following suggestions in mind before abandoning that covered container of future mysteries to its cold settlement at the back of the refrigerator. Chop cooked liver into small cubes and scramble with eggs for breakfast. Save that lone slice of bacon or ham, spoonful of onions, or mushrooms, for adding a new zest to peas.: Halibut, cod, or sole, make tasty sandwiches when flaked and combined with chopped pickles, lemon juice, and mayonnaise. Garnish a pot of chili with sliced franks or sausage and mounds of leftover whipped potatoes. Pop under broiler until potatoes are a golden brown. Coin-sized slices of a leftover frankfurter or two add a change of flavor to macaroni and cheese. Keep that giblet gravy for the beginnings of the next day's chicken soup. Leftover mushroom gravy made from creamed soup and that last slice of ham can be combined with chopped onion and sliced potatoes for a scalloped main dish. Stale rolls or buns are warm and tasty when spread with parsleyed garlic butter and broiled until brown on spaghetti night. Dry bread can be toasted, cut into cubes, and saved for a welcome surprise in tossed green salads, soups, or stewed tomatoes and onions. Scoop out the center of day-old muffins. Fill centers with creamed fish, sprinkle with grated cheese, and bake in hot oven. Add leftover tomatoes, vegetables, or vegetable soups to meat loaf. Don't forget the precious vitamins you can save by adding the liquid drained from vegetables to soups or tomato juice. _ A small amount of sliced canned peaches stirred in, or that last bit of juice from canned cherries poured on top, can add variety to an old favorite — vanilla pudding. Bake leftover waffle batter. Break waffles into sections, wrap in waxed paper, and freeze for making slices of tasty toast at a later date. Save the juice drained from canned blueberries, or other berries, and add enough water to measure one cup. Combine with % cup sugar, one tablespoon cornstarch, and % teaspoon salt in saucepan and stir over medium heat until clear. Reduce heat and cook five minutes. Stir in two tablespoons butter and one tablespoon lemon juice. Serve warm over yellow cake or waffles. Do not let that whipping cream sour. Beat the cream and drop by large spoonfuls onto waxed paper placed on a cooky sheet. Freeze. Peel frozen mounds of cream from paper, place in plastic bag, and store in freezer. When ready to use, place individual mounds of frozen cream on top of dessert servings at the beginning of a meal. Cream should be thawed by dessert time. Cut leftover cake in rectangles. Line a refrigerator tray with waxed paper and fill with alternate layers of cake and sweetened whipped cream for a refreshing frozen dessert. Page 441 CuapTEr 6 (Conclusion ) Margery S. Stewart T was on the third day of October that Tomas Novarro came for his son. It was a bright and brittle morning, with the desert winds blowing hot down the hills, and the sea taking on the deep vital blue that was a sign of autumn as plain as maple leaves on fire. This was the last time Nina would take down small Joseph's special bowl, or spoon into it the hot, nourishing cereal. 'This was the last of the brilliant mornings rich with plans for the day. There would be no more Disneyland expeditions or deep sea fishing with Tomas to show her how to reel in her line. He was taking his son to Europe to show him the world and to have him entirely to himself. He had talked about it, planned for it, writing for brochures, bringing them over in the evenings to see what she thought of the side trips he had planned. Nina made herself very busy. 'Today she would houseclean the kitchen cupboards, put down new paper, and tomorrow she would go to the Children's Hospital and apply for a job. She needed a new car, and now she could afford one. By all these thoughts, like actors on a stage, she fought to keep back the one tall and spectral figure — loneliness. Joseph was beside himself with delight. "Big plane! Zoom!" "Big plane," Nina agreed. Small Joseph ran to the door. Page 442 '"Daddy's coming." He was impatient to be gone. There was an impatient knocking on the back door. Nina hurried to open it. Tommy grinned at her with bright impudence. "I got a present for Joseph." Joseph rushed forward to claim it, and 'Tommy brought it around from where he had been hiding it, a small red truck. "Kids like things they can hold." "T know." He sniffed the air. "Good." "Popovers... Almost ready." She had to invite him for breakfast, but for the first time she found herself wishing he hadn't come. She had wanted to be alone with 'Tomas, be sure he was planning to stop off in New York and buy the heavier clothes that Joseph would need. She worried about this part of it. Sometimes Tomas seemed to forget his son entirely and wanted to talk about everything else under the sun. He had a trick of waiting for her to speak, as if he found something fascinating in the way her words came that was infinitely flattering. People had smiled at them, moving together through the days, the three of them, the great, dark Tomas, herself, and the child. Once a woman had paused to compliment her on her "lovely child." 'Tomas had thought that hilariously funny. In the weeks they had been together it had been toward 'Tomas SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES that she and Joseph had leaned. It had been luxury to be cared for, to be driven about, to be thought of and considered. Sometimes she had had to pull herself up sharply and remind herself that it was only the bridge before the end of the line. Joseph turned more and more to his father, less and less to the comfort of her arms. She was aware that Tommy was talking, "... But the bad part is leaving you, Miss Karsh, that's what I hate about it... And leaving Dominick." She looked at him. "Leaving? Where are you going?"' He shook his head. "I've been telling you for ten minutes. We're going to move to Frisco, Mom and my brother and me, real soon." Nina would not let him see the bleakness of her eyes. "We'll miss you Dominick and I. But you can come back and visit?" "Sure I will." She bent her head over the opened oven door. It was in little idle promises like this that the pangs of separation were lessened. Tommy cleared his throat. "Another thing I want to tell you, Miss Karsh, is that I did some knocking and now I know." She straightened, the pan of popovers in her hand. "You knocked where?" He looked ceilingward. "On that door. So now I know. He does come, only you sure must knock a — long time. Anyway I did, but all of a sudden I knew, just like you did. He's there all right." He licked his lips. "Maybe I could just have a popover now before we sit down?" 443 HE knocker sounded on _ the front door. 'Tommy ran to answer. Nina, putting plates on the table, paused to listen to the sound of footsteps. It was 'Tomas who had come. She made herself very busy. "Well, this is a delicious welcome." Tomas stood in the doorway. Nina looked at him quickly and looked away. It's because he is taking Joseph away that it hurts me to look at him, she thought. 'Tomas looked different this morning, like a stranger in his beautiful gray suit, immaculate white shirt, blue tie, like a man ready to step into his own familiar world after a season in an alien land. "Doctor Jonathan show up yet?" "Doctor Jonathan? No. Plan to come?" "Said he would, wanted to see you for a minute, and to say goodbye to Joseph." "He's driving in now," 'Tommy said and was off like a shot to lead the doctor in. Tomas gave Nina a_ narrow, laughing glance. "It seems you have given my friend a great deal of trouble," he said. "You make him think... Of things... You make him uneasy." Nina laughed. "I like him very much. He's a wonderful doctor. I remember at the hospital how everyone stood aside for him." "So?" Tomas lifted his brow. He looked distressed suddenly, and then he said. "I hate goodbyes. Let me take Joseph and go now, quickly. Do you mind?" "Why no not if that's the way you want it." Did he 444 Nina wiped her hands on her apron and ran to get Joseph's clean shirt, which she had been saving until the last minute so he would be clean for the journey. The bags were packed and ready. Tomas was suddenly in a fever to be gone. He carried the bags out. Joseph would have tumbled after him, but Nina caught him and carried him to the rocker. She hugged him, and Joseph wriggled impatiently. "I must go now." Nina let him go. She did not kiss him nor cling. She followed him out to the car. 'Tomas was talking to Manuel, who was at the wheel, and to Doctor Jonathan. He took Joseph's hand and opened the car door. "I hate goodbyes," he said again, "and I will write of course, Nina. You must take care of yourself." It was all so fast. Joseph waved to her from his place beside his father. Manuel started the car. Tomas leaned out to her. "You will wnite," he said earnestly. "I must hear from you very often." "Yes yes, of course." "Tl see that she does,' Doctor Jonathan said. HE car rolled away down the hill. Nina stood irresolute, torn between wanting to watch it until it was out of sight and of preserving from the doctor this feminine weakness of tears at a farewell. Tommy burst out of the house with a hot popover in his hand. "I gotta go, Miss Karsh. I'll come up after school. Bye now." Doctor Jonathan followed her into the house. "I came," he said, "because I had something to talk to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 you about. It's a girl trouble. She needs help." Nina began to set the kitchen to rights. "You must tell me about her,' she said, but she was still straining to hear the sound of the car receding down the hill. "A very young girl, from out of State." He stopped abruptly and was silent. Nina looked at him inquiringly. "You were saying?" she pressed him politely. "Nothing." He pushed the chair savagely under the table. "I said forget it! Forget the girl!" "No no I want to hear perhaps I can help." "Sure you can help. There's no doubt of it, and what is there in it for you, Nina Karsh? What do you get out of this giving of yourself?" He leaned against the door, folding his arms. "We're a_ greedy bunch, this modern race of men. We'll take the juice out of a person like you and then quote some bearded authority on how stupid it was of you to give it, call it a sublimation, a fixation, a compulsion...." Nina laughed. "I don't care what you call it. I think it is absurd, all this preoccupation for reasons for helping people." He said, "I will not ask you to go through this again." He gestured in agitation about the room. "It ls too painful to watch, the process of love and struggle and the inevitable conclusion of surrender and pain. I will find another way." Nina rubbed her hands along her skirt. "Don't rob me." "Rob you?" "Loneliness is a field," Nina said gently. "Who could know that better than I?" a girl in SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES He lifted his head. His profile was sharpened and alert as it was in the operating room. "An empty field," he said tentatively, probing the idea, "and you have sown yours with roses." He came to her. "It is no wonder that your fields are constantly being seized and taken sow a field with nettles... And it will be left to you... Forever." They were very close together now. When Nina looked into his face she saw the black, circling the gray iris, and the lines that weariness had made, and the recurring tenderness she had known for him deepened inside her. They stood in silence. But the silence was like the silence she had known that day with the small Joseph. In the silence the heavy sadness ran thin like a great fog lessening, and in the silence the first sun shot forth a blinding brightness, so that they caught their breaths and came closer, hand reaching to hand. 445 "T am not afraid to love now," he said. "Isn't that strange? I didn't even know before that I was afraid of love." Nina could not speak for the tumultuous joy of her being. Sow a field with roses, and though the blooms be torn away, the roots and the earth remain, preparing themselves in the mysterious quiet for a new and lovelier spring. She heard Dr. Jonathan speaking slowly. "In this time, now with you, they have all been returned to me, the things I was so sure I had irrevocably lost." Nina looked at him in perplexity. "Lost?" "Yes," he said. "When I lost love, I lost faith with it, and now I have them again, all the bright lost dreams, the temple dreams, and the family dream, and the slow, beloved years together." CRockocX Morning Song Leora Larsen Some days are made to savor, Some to weep. In between, busy ones My balance keep. Pie-Tin Therapy Pauline L. Jensen T is strange how differently people react to various situations. Some people, when wrestling with a problem, take long walks, weed a garden, or even scrub floors until they have settled the issue. With me, I bake pies! Whenever I am beset with a day filled with frustration, or some problem that is bothering me, I cast everything else aside and whip up six or eight pies. I figure that in the thirty odd years of my marriage I have baked a total of at least eight thousand pies. That is only an average of twenty pies a month, and counting eight pies to a baking, that means I have settled one thousand problems with a pie-tin. The peculiar part of all this is that, although these _pie-baking sprees were intended for my benefit, the end result has been twofold. For the minute I see those luscious looking pies standing end to end on the kitchen counter, I immediately begin figuring out how many I am going to give away, and just whom I'm going to give them to. The Page 446 latter actually isn't a problem at all, since it isn't hard to figure out who needs a pie the most. Yesterday, for instance, I went on a pie-baking jamboree. I had been fretting all morning over the disloyalty of a friend — something that none of us likes to have happen, so at noon I got out the pie-tins and the necessary ingredients and got busy. I had just taken the first pie from the oven — a cherry one with juice oozing out around the edges, when the telephone rang. It was Lou, my neighbor. "Do you have a can of fruit or something like that?" she asked, ""Don's folks have just arrived in town, and they will be out for lunch. I haven't a thing — not one single thing in the line of desserts or sweets." "Cherry pie, coming right up," I assured her, and heard her gasp of pleasure. I took the pumpkin pie from the oven and set it aside. That one was for Dr. Anna, for it is her favorite. Besides, she is bedfast, and seldom PIE-TIN THERAPY gets homemade pie. I paused a minute and smiled. It is wonderful to see her smile when I take a pie to her. She smiles so seldom these days, that anything that cheers her is well worth the effort. As I glanced out the window I saw Ruth, another neighbor, coming home. She had had a busy day with her Primary class. Right then I was in sympathy with her, since I am not so far removed from those days myself. Since Ruth was giving her time and effort to a worthy project, why not send the lemon pie to her? I pushed it back to cool a bit before delivering it. The mince pie filled the kitchen with its fragrance. That one I would put in the freezer, I decided. Mince pies keep so well. Then I remembered my friend Min, and what she had said the other day. "I'm starved for a pie with real honest-to-goodness mincemeat filling.' Oh well, why not give this pie to Min? I had several more jars of mincemeat in the storeroom. After all, where could I find a better friend? I thought of all the nice things she had done for us, and this I thought was but small payment. The apple pie must go to Marjorie, for I had planned it especially for her. Chained to a wheel chair, a gift of home-cooked food was the most welcome thing she could receive. She had said so, many times. I glanced at the two pie crusts standing on the table. Chocolate 'pie would taste good, I thought. We hadn't had one for a long time. As I lifted it, with its golden brown meringue, from the oven, Bobbie, the boy next door came in 447 with a package of chicken giblets for our cat. His eyes lighted up. "Chocolate pie!) Uhmmmm! My favorite!" He sniffed ecstatically. With a sigh, I slipped the pie onto a baking tin for him to take home. After all, hadn't he just brought our cat a special evening meal? Quickly I stirred a custard, filled the remaining shell and put it in the oven. How lucky, I thought, that I have a husband who indulges me in this luxury of pie giving. Not once has he objected, for he has his own philosophy regarding this. "No matter how much we give, it is but small payment in exchange for all our blessings," he says. I looked over the array of pies with a feeling of satisfaction. From long experience I knew they would be well received, since through the years, I had learned the technique well. For my pies had gone everywhere — to Church, to PTA, to Primary and MIA affairs, and bake sales. But best of all, eight thousand pies had taught me far more than culinary skill! I remembered once again the problem that had sent me on this therapy. I had almost forgotten it! Had my friend been disloyal, or had I taken offense without thinking it through logically? All flesh is weak, including mine. Was what she did so important after all? It was over — done with. Why not forget it now? The afternoon was gone, but it had been well spent. Enough piecheer for seven families, and an extra bonus — my worry disposed of neatly with pie-tin therapy. Peace in a Troubled World Ruth L. Jones RECENTLY, I was talking with a neighbor who 'is not a member of the Church. She expressed the almost hysterical fear in her heart of the possible destruction of the earth in a nuclear war and of her unsuccessful attempts to hide these fears from her small son. I tried to give her some assurance with thoughts somewhat like these: Yes — man has become very powerful — sufficiently so that he can destroy the works of man — but he does not have sufficient knowledge and power to destroy the works of God. Furthermore, man never will be able to change the eternal plans and purposes which God has for his creations. These are fearsome times, it is true, and we cannot help wondering what lies immediately ahead, but it is imperative that we continue to live our lives with trust in the ultimate triumph of right. We must see to it that we maintain homes of security and peace for our families. We need not try to do this alone. Our Heavenly Father is as near as our faith will allow him to be. He intends that we shall be happy — "men are that they might have joy," and it is not only our privilege, but our duty to attain this. Nothing can be gained by living in fear and doubts. He who created us and the earth will continue to keep his creations under his control. He will not forsake us. Then, I declare my sincere testimony that God lives. He has eternal plans for his children. Jesus is the Christ. The gospel has been restored. Truth is stronger than error, righteousness will overcome sin, and justice will be done. We have only to accept the will of our Father and the blessings which, inevitably, follow obedience to him. I hope that the good lady received a measure of peace from these words. I hope, too, that, as mothers in Israel, we shall make sure that our children have a clear understanding of what their destiny can be — that this knowledge may give them the blessed assurance of the goodness and mercy and omnipotence of God. Page 448 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by LaVona Hoopes | ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), PIMA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR November 1961 Left to right: Katheryn Cluff, Second Counselor; Polly Carter, First Counselor; Thelma Rogers, President; Louise Taylor, Secretary-Treasurer. LaVona Hoopes, President, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society, reports: "Due to the outstanding co-operation of the sisters in the Pima Ward Relief Society, a large number of articles were prepared for sale at the bazaar. A delicious Spanish supper was served. Previous to the bazaar, in October 1961, some of the articles prepared for the bazaar were entered in the Graham County Fair. Of seventy-three entries, sixteen blue ribbons were received, fourteen red nbbons, and eleven white ribbons. In preparing for the bazaar, it was suggested that the sisters make their articles of a quality good enough to be entered in the county fair." Page 449 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 its membership from a number of copper mining towns all situated thirty to forty-five miles apart. 'The most central town, Kitwe, has been chosen as the meeting place for this branch. In spite of long distances to travel, the sisters are very enthusiastic and feel it a privilege to belong to Relief Society. We have heard it said that this is the most remote branch from the headquarters of the Church in the world. Roads, at times, are unsafe for travel, but these sisters are most faithful and have an attendance of between ninety-five and one hundred per cent." 6 a Photograph submitted by Ora M. Gardner DESERET STAKE (UTAH), OASIS WARD HONORS VETERAN RELIEF SOCIETY WORKER AT SOCIAL, October 1961 Ora M. Gardner, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports that Sister Jensine Anderson, eighty-three, eldest member of Oasis Ward Relief Society, was honored at the opening social in October. Sister Anderson, who was born in Denmark, joined the Relief Society sixty-three years ago, and has been an active member ever since. She ° has been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since the first issue, and before that she was a subscriber to the Woman's Exponent, more than sixty years in all. As a visiting teacher, Sister Anderson, with her companion, had a perfect record for over five consecutive years. Many times they walked from home to home in the scatterd farming community. At the last county fair she was awarded five blue and six red ribbons for her lovely handwork. The award money was turned over to the Relief Society to "help out." Ethel M. Stanworth is president of Oasis Ward Relief Society. At the social Sister Stanworth presented in honor of Sister Anderscon a tribute in the form of a "This Is Your Life" program. A beautiful book was made, containing birthday greeting cards, pictures, and the story of Sister Anderson's life. 452 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 ite aC " ead | | ' BRISBANE STAKE (AUSTRALIA), BRISBANE THIRD WARD 'SOCIAL HONORING RETIRING PRESIDENCY AND WELCOMING THE NEW PRESIDENCY, July 1961 Front row, seated, left to mght: Amy Beatrice Bates; Sarah Lydia Lamb; Catherine Mary Tulloch, First Counselor, reappointed; Shirley Hauritz, retiring president; Gertrude Shirra, new President; Evangeline Thurger Smith, Second Counselor, reappointed; Jessie Stitchel Low; Lucy May Boundy; Margaret Elizabeth 'Tewlin. Back row, standing. Left to right: Doris Leppard; Elizabeth Frances Refoy; Ann Innes Fulcher; Enid J. Dean; Dorothy Elizabeth Solomon; Beryl Grace Buckle; Sirrka Annikka Brosser; Mary Millicent Manning; Chnistlene Schilling; Dorothy Robins. Enid M. Richards, President, Brisbane Stake Relief Society, reports that Sister Gertrude Shirra has returned to America, and the First Counselor Mary Tulloch was appointed president of the Brisbane Third Ward Relief Society. HRotograph submitted Pisa gee B. Glade | BOISE STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION Left to right: Clara Anderson, visiting teacher message leader; Zola Jeppson, Counselor; Alyce B. Glade, President; Eugenia Carver, Counselor; Rachael Rich, Secretary; Marian —— work director. 454 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 ae LY Photograph submitted by Ilah K. Smith DENVER STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, November 13, 1961 Seated in the front row, left to nght: Elva Wnght, Education Counselor; [ah K. Smith, President, Denver Stake Relief Society; Ruby Scott, Work Director Counselor; Reta Beck, chorister; Daisy Corlock, organist; Becky Christensen, organist. Sister Smith reports: "This lovely group presented the music for stake quarterly conference, November 13, 1961. They sang, "Oh, May I Know the Lord as Friend' and "The Battle Hymn of the Republic.' These songs were learned in the wards, and a lovely rendition was given by the stake group, with only a limited number of stake practices. All six wards and two branches, a total of eight units, were represented." Photograph submitted by Elva G. Ravsten SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, NORTH ALABAMA DISTRICT SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR DISTRICT CONFERENCE November 5, 1961 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 455 Front row, left to right: Thora Nichols; Georgia Stacey; Jean Riley; Carol Simley; Elva G. Ravsten, President, Southern States Mission Relief Society; Norma Johns; Pernie Newbold; Joy Densmore, chorister. Second row, left to right: Nell Martin; Lois Acker; Nora Huddleston; Ethel Lillis; Essie Cummings; Jetta Lowther. Third row, left to right: Charlene Williams; Dora Tuberville; Alice Collins; Sarah Vines; Elinor Robinson. Fourth row, left to right: Jessie Sanders; Hazel Jex; Ida Mae Morton; Nettie Stockman; organists Sally Cummings and Sue Ellen Tuberville. Sister Ravsten reports: "We are very happy with our Relief Society Singing Mothers. A year ago we didn't have a Singing Mothers chorus in the North Alabama District. With faith that the Lord would help us if we did our part, we organized a Singing Mothers chorus, and for the last two district conferences, these mothers have presented the music. The music was beautiful, and the sweet spirit and humility of these sisters opened the way for the spirit of the Lord to be with us." "ity — iain H. Christensen SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (UTAH), AND WARD WORK MEETING LEADERS DISPLAY HANDWORK AT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION November 18, 1961 Left to right: Christine Allred, Ephraim North Ward; Kit Barton, Manti North Ward; Lenore Dennison, Manti South Ward; Marzetta Willardsen, South Sanpete Stake work meeting leader; Naomi Davis, Manti Center Ward; Marcel Poulson, Ephraim South Ward; Jessie Bradley, Sterling Ward; Ada Larsen, Ephraim West Ward. Vonda H. Christensen, President, South Sanpete Stake Relief Society, reports that many beautiful articles of handwork were on display at the visiting teacher convention. Included were many lovely aprons, quilts, stuffed toys, artificial flowers, and paintings. The women of the stake were privileged to hear a message of inspiration and encouragement from General President Belle S. Spafford, who was guest speaker at the convention. Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons "THE BETTER FOR YOU TO SEE AND HEAR, MY DEARS" Alice L. Wilkinson Member, General Board of Relief Society UDIO-visual teaching maA terials, when wisely and skillfully used, will give life and lasting interest to all lessons taught in Relief Society. 'Today, they are accepted as important teaching tools, and their use can be easily justified if we remember that we can learn more quickly if we can see what is being explained orally. A great impetus in the use of audio-visual materials has been noted since World War II. Reports indicate that with their use time required to train men for the armed services was cut as much as thirty to forty per cent. Some authorities say that eighty-five to ninety per cent of what an ordinary person learns is through the eye. We often hear the expression, "I can remember your face, but I can't remember your name." 'This is evidence that an impression through sight is more permanent than one __ received through hearing. With so much to Page 456 learn about our gospel and the many things which enrich our lives, we, as Relief Society class leaders, dare not neglect the fastest and most permanent method at hand. The reasons why our learning processes are stepped up by the use of audio-visual materials have been stated in previous articles published in The Relief Society Magazine, a list of which is given at the end of this article. But for the sake of many mrew class leaders who are entering upon their first teaching experience, it may be well to review them here. They arouse interest. They focus attention. They stimulate thought. They clarify a point. They help to retain ideas. They stimulate imagination. They recall experiences. They save time. They provide student activity. They complement and enrich other methods. OD CON An DW N ~ LESSON DEPARTMENT There are many materials from which to choose, but the ones most suitable for use in Relief Society are: 1. Blackboard The blackboard is one of the most common, inexpensive, but versatile, visual aids. Most of our ward chapels are being equipped with permanent blackboards in classrooms. There are also portable blackboards which rest on an easel or are built ona frame. The blackboard can be used in presenting an outline, keeping a question or problem before the group during the discussion, making a drawing or sketch which helps explain an idea, enlisting interest by focusing attention on what is being put on the board, summarizing the lesson, and for many other purposes. A class leader would do well to use the blackboard regularly and for at least one thing during each lesson presentation. 2. Maps: Flat Relief or Globe Maps are an important item in understanding the circumstances surrounding history. 'They will be of particular value this year in theology and literature. A map of the United States, indicating the location of Independence, Missouri, the predicted center place of Zion, in relation to the rest of the country, would be helpful in presenting the- 'Ology lessons 41 and 42. The same map could be used to point out the movement of the Church westward from New York to Missouri. 457 3. Pictures: Photographs, Paintings, Cartoons, Drawings, Pictures from Newspapers, Magazines, or Books Pictures serve as good substitutes for first-hand experiences. 'They may vitalize, clarify, and focus attention upon the purpose of the lesson. 'They should be artistic and colorful, of high quality, and accurate in detail. Pictures are usually inexpensive and easily obtained, and may be used to illustrate a multitude of ideas. A picture of the seamed, burdened face of Abraham Lincoln reflects his struggle to keep the United States a single republic. Pictures of foods and household items attract our eyes to advertisements of products competing for our attention and money. A picture kit for this year's literature lessons is being prepared. It consists of a large picture of each author discussed, a print of Walden Pond for the Thoreau lessons, and an illustration for the lesson on Moby Dick. The lesson an Abraham Lincoln will be given in February when school and community libraries will be featuring Lincoln exhibits. Look for additional material in magazines and newspapers at that time. 4. Charts Charts, whether single or in a series, are very convenient teaching aids because of their permanency and portability. Prepared in advance, charts save teaching time and are effective in listing ideas or presenting summaries. Printed card charts with important key words and ideas displayed on a stand-up pasteboard easel help to guide a group discussion. Charts should be simple. Don't 458 try to tell the whole story on one page. Remember, if you want your chart to be read, be brief and illustrate only the important points. Charts may prove helpful in the social science lessons this year. 5. Bulletin Boards It is recommended that every ward Relief Society have a bulletin board with someone in charge of keeping it attractive and up to date. It can be a valuable teaching and training aid as well as a promotional and advertising aid. Magazine representatives will find unlimited use for it. 6. Posters Posters are used widely in commercial advertising. The same principles can be adapted to religious education. 'The message of a poster should be obvious at a glance. Posters would be helpful for work meeting lessons and Magazine promotion. 7. The Flannel Board The flannel board is recognized as one of the most valuable aids in story telling. The value of the flannel board depends upon the quality of the pictures used and the skill of the person using it. The flannel board consists of a board usually about two by three feet in size, covered with a piece of flannel cloth. Pictures, which have flannel pasted on the back of them, are placed on the board as needed. Each picture is a cut-out of a person, object, or scene and is manuevered to illustrate the point which the story is trying to emphasize. It creates motion and attracts considerable attention. ReRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 member to keep the presentation simple; keep the flannel board uncluttered and do not use too many figures. The flannel board could be effectively used in this year's work meeting lessons. Other suggested materials, more expensive, but very helpful if they can be afforded, are filmstrips, slides, Opaque projectors, and recordings. Remember there is no "best type" visual aid. Different situations require different aids. The best judgment of the teacher should determine the one to be used. A motion picture may be ideally suited to one situation, while a chart or a flannel board will be most effective in another situation. Each aid selected for use in a particular lesson must contribute directly toward the development of the objective of that lesson. The resourceful class leader will begin early to collect and classify her materials. As soon as the lesson previews are published, she should be alert to those helps that will enrich her teaching plans. She should read each individual lesson as soon as it is published, in order to give further thought, organization, and preparation to her materials. The ward leader should consult her stake leader as to the suitability and appropriateness of her materials in the leadership meeting. It is there that she may also get ideas from other ward leaders. Remember! Although visual aids are an efficient supplement, they are not a substitute for good teaching. They are only aids to instruction, a means to an end. 'Too often a teacher will use visual materials as a "crutch" upon which to lean, LESSON DEPARTMENT expecting them to speak for themselves. Under such circumstances they are valueless. They do not exist by themselves, but are only a part of a teaching method. When skill- 459 fully integrated with that method, they give warmth and sparkle and permanence to what every eager, understanding Relief Society class leader would have her sisters learn. The following articles on this subject have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Teaching Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27, by Leone G. Layton. "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for the 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418, by Leone G. Layton. "Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400, by Edith S. Elliott. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398, by Mary R. Young. "Teaching Aids for the 1958-59 Lessons,' June 1958, page 399, by Mary R. Young. "Using the Blackboard in Teaching Lessons in the Relief Society," April 1960, page 228, by William E. Berrett. Theology— The Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 Elder Roy W. Doxey ITH the exception of one of the revelations to be studied during the next eight lessons, they were all received in the month of August 1831. All of these revelations were received in the State of Missouri, except one. Since the publication of The Book of Mormon, the members of the Church had looked forward to learning the location of the promised city of Zion also known as the New Jerusalem. Prophets of The Book of Mormon had indicated that this New Jerusalem would be located upon the American Continent. (See Ether 13:6.) Bible prophets had spoken and sung of the glories of this city that would be a place of the gathering of God's people. The Lord has revealed in our dispensation that men would seek peace but thev would find it only in Zion. The splendor of this city would be known to the world in the days of millennial peace, and the righteous laws to govern the earth, emanating from that place, would be acclaimed by men. Its place in the future is assured—a capital of the world when Jesus Christ reigns—and the saints will build it. See Micah 4:2; 3 Nephi 20:21-22.) During the short period of the Prophet's sojourn in Missouri at this time, the Lord revealed the location of the city of Zion, something of its future glory, and that the covenant 460 members of the Church are committed to make preparations diligently for the building up of the city of Zion and, in the larger sense, of working for the cause of Zion or the advancement of the general purposes of the kingdom of God. The important truth is developed in another lesson that the saints are to exercise their abilities without being commanded in all things. The living of the laws of the land is to characterize the obedient Church member. One of the oft-discussed and important revelations was revealed for the benefit of the saints at this time. Eight obligations of the member in observing the Sabbath day are discussed in one lesson, and another is devoted to the blessings which follow proper observance of this and other commandments. Some Church members of this period, as well as some today, neglected fully to comprehend their calling in the Church to exercise their talents in behalf of their fellow men. For this they were called to repentance, and, thus, we of a later period, may benefit from the revelation dealing with this problem. Another lesson discusses one of the signs of the last days, arising out of an unusual circumstance experienced by the Prophet's party en route to the East from Missouri. The prophetic warnings voiced in The Doctrine and Covenants give the faithful a better appreciation of the Lord's concern for his people and the ultimate triumph of his work on the earth. That these predictions are in the process of fulfillment is known to those who are looking to these signs as harbingers of the second coming of Christ. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 The two concluding lessons for the year come from one section of The Doctrine and Covenants. From the beginning, there have been those who have sought after signs (miracles), in order to satisfy their curiosity. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has not been free from these individuals. We learn that signs will be known to the member of the Church and the Lord has provided many signs for the world as an evidence and witness of the restoration of the gospel. Because the saints were desirous of leaning many things pertaining to the future, this same revelation satisfied their longings for further information about the last days. The lesson is also taught that great care must be exercised in speaking about sacred things, for people will find condemnation in their irreverence. The 1962-63 series of lessons have been given the following titles and objectives: Lesson 41 — The Center Place of Zion (D & C 57; 58:1-4). Objective: To learn that ancient prophets foresaw the New Jerusalem on the American Continent, and that the Lord's promise concerning Zion will not go unfulfilled. Lesson 42 — "Engaged in a Good Cause" (D & C 58:15-65). Objective: To show that obedience to the Lord's commandments involves working for the cause of Zion. Lesson 43 — The Day of Rest and Devotions (D & C 59:1-14). Objective: To learn what the Lord has said regarding rest from labors and the Sabbath Day. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 44 — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments (D & C 59:15- 24). Objective: To learn the promises of the Lord for the faithful who keep his commandments. Lesson 45 — Talents and Testimonies (D & C 60 and 62). Objective: To understand that talents are to be used in the Lord's service in testifying of his power. Lesson 46 — The Waters and the Land (D & C 61). Objective: To learn that although one of the signs of the last days is 461 destruction on the waters, yet the Lord warns and protects the faithful. Lesson 47 — The Sign Seeker (D & C 63:1-21). Objective: To learn that the person of faith is justified by the Lord, but the sign seeker is condemned by the Lord. Lesson 48 — Give Heed to Warnings and Tnfle Not With Sacred Things (D & C 63:22-66). Objective: To realize that to redeem Zion peaceful means were to be used; that wars would plague the world until the Savior comes; that there would come a time of peace during the millenium; and to know the seriousness of blaspheming sacred things. Visiting Teacher Messages Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants PREVIEW OF MESSAGES FOR 1962-63 Christine H. Robinson HIS year's visiting teacher messages "Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants" are taken from Sections 58 to 62. In describing some of the conditions and circumstances under which these five revelations were given, the Prophet Joseph Smith emphasized the fact that in the early days of the Church "there was a great anxiety to obtain the word of the Lord upon every subject that in any way concerned our salvation" (D. H. C. I: 207). The chief emphasis in this year's messages is on some of the principles of living which affect our salvation. They stress particularly the personal blessings that come from effective and productive work. For example, they emphasize that we should keep ourselves "anxiously engaged" in good works. 'They point out that works of righteousness bring rich personal rewards and they alert us to the great value of the gift of time and urge us to use it wisely in the quest for eternal values. These messages exhort us to be cheerful, prayerful, and faithful. They also point out the importance of being industrious in the application of self-initiative. 'They stress the extent to which personal salva- 462 tion depends upon applying to ourselves the eternal principle of repentance. As. With all Doctrine and Covenants teachings these messages, although they deal with enduring and eternal truths, are modern scriptures and their application is particularly appropriate in our lives today. If we follow their teachings they will help us find nght solutions to our problems and help us build lives on solid foundations which will bring us joy and happiness, not only in this life but throughout eternity. The messages and their objectives for 1962-1963 are as follows: Message 41—"Men Should Be Anxiously Engaged in a Good Cause" (D & C 58:27). Objective: —To demonstrate that the best cause in which we can be anxiously engaged is that of giving love and service to others. Message 42 — "He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness Shall Receive His Reward" (D & C 59:23). Objective: 'To describe specific qualities and works which help to build righteous living. Message 43—"Be of Good Cheer" (D & C 61:36). Objective: To point out that cheerfulness is an important element of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 the gospel's teachings. The Lord wants us to be of good cheer. Message 44—"Thou Shalt Not Idle Away Thy Time" (D & C 60:13). Objective: To emphasize the importance of utilizing our time wisely and to the best possible advantage. Message 45—''Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" (D & C 61:39). Objective: —To show that prayer is the shield the Lord provides to help us Overcome temptation. Message 46—"He Who Has Repented of His Sins, the Same Is Forgiven and I, the Lord, Remember Them No More" (D & C 58:42). Objective: To show how greatly we are blessed through the divine principle of repentance. Message 47—"It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things" (D & C 58:26). Objective: To emphasize the fact that it is through the exercise of free agency that we develop initiative and self-reliance. Message 48—'"Inasmuch As They Are Faithful They Shall Be Preserved, and I, the Lord, Will Be With Them" (D & C 61:10). Objective: To emphasize the fact that the Lord's protecting spirit gives the faithful strength to meet life's problems. Work Meeting—The Latter-day Saint Home PREVIEW OF DISCUSSIONS FOR 1962-63 Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint home may set an example in homemaking. 66 AMILIES are __forever" is one of the beliefs that make the Latter - day Saint home stand apart from all other homes in the world. The Latter-day Saint wants his home to be the setting for glorious family living, where LESSON DEPARTMENT love, good will, and creative working together develop the eternal bond between parents and children. Some so-called homes today are not much more than "filling stations" where family members drive in, fill up, and blow out. Others are "quick change" places where the main function is to get ready to go some other place. Latter-day Saints will guard against the disruptive influences that scatter the interests of family members to the far corners, leaving the home bare; contrariwise, they will exert every effort to make the home the matrix around which all else revolves. 'The home then becomes the place where each person feels secure and understood; the place where Latter-day Saint values, inherent in the good life, are nurtured. Such homes do not just happen — it takes study, planning, and good management to bring them about. Other factors needed are suggested by an old adage: "The laborer works with his hands; the craftsman works with his hands and his head; the artist works with his hands and his head and his heart." Surely, to realize fully the objective of an ideal Latter-day Saint home, every family member must work with his hands and his head and his heart. In pioneer days, mothers handed their recipes down to their daughters, and young brides patterned their homes after those of their parents. 'The homemaker had an abundance of time but little money and equipment to work with; in very deed, "woman's work was never done." Today's homemaker, with her many-sided role, has less time for homemaking but more money and equipment than her pioneer counterpart could have dreamed about. Her 463 work may be done in a hurry, is more interesting, less enslaving, more complicated, and at the same time easier than ever before. There are new systems of marketing, new foods and new methods of preparing them. 'There are new mechanical devices to master if she is to make the most of the homemaking profession today. The eight discussions in _ this series will draw information from many sources in order to give the Relief Society member a sound basis on which to evaluate her home in relation to the Latter-day Saint ideal; help her to set some goals for improvements; and help her gain some skill as a home manager in working with her family to achieve these goals. A different method will be used in presenting each discussion. There will be a flip chart, a blackboard, a home values test, a sociodrama, a demonstration, a hidden panel, and a symposium. In each case, there will be a "buzz" session during the work period following the lesson in order that points presented may be discussed and elaborated upon, and that there may be a sharing of ideas about how to put the new suggestions into practice. Does our family time schedule need reorganizing in order that our home may be kept clean and beautiful and provide a suitable setting for our familv activities? Are we living within our income and making the most of all of our resources? Is each member growing in understanding, unselfishness, love, honor, and in being a responsible person? The discussions will help members to know what to do about these queries. 464 The 1962-63 series of discussions have been given the following titles and objectives: Discussion 1—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part I) Objective: To show that successful home management begins with happy, wholesome family relationships. Discussion 2—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part II) Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. Discussion 3—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part IIT) Objective: To help us understand the value of organizing our time. Discussion 4—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well-organized (Part IV) Objective: To show that decisionRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 making is the heart of good management. Discussion 5—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part I) Objective: To show that a clean, wellcared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Discussion 6—The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part IT) Objective: To show that a clean, wellcared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Discussion 7—The Latter-day Home Exemplifies Thrift Objective: To show that a family can know the feeling of security through work and the wise use of resources. Saint Discussion 8—The Latter-day Saint Home Is a Training Ground Objective: To show the importance of home influence on the training and growth of children. Lite rature—America's Literature (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York) PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 The New Birth of Freedom Elder Briant S. Jacobs DUCATION, indeed all existence, might be deSea yfned as a_ never-ending J voyage into self - discovery. And while each of us is moved irresistibly forward with emerging time, we best deepen and enrich our present search for identity by constantly returning to the past. The future is fantasy, since it unfolds itself to us only as an endless series of present moments. The living present alone seems real, but before it is here it is blended and tempered by all that is past, which it joins and gives substance to. The past approached as a sympathetic friend loyally tending to our every question and sensitive response sustains our imaginations and spirits with a breadth of vision and a warmth of understanding for all humankind. It bequeaths to our life some of its brightest joys and most enduring LESSON DEPARTMENT satisfactions. For those who approach the past in humility and awe, it yields superb cause for gratitude. The accumulative growth of centuries was culminated in the late eighteenth century by the Founding Fathers of the United States who wrote down what Englishmen living in New England had long known in their hearts. It was they who gave birth to the United States as a revoJutionary idea, as theory. Now it remained for the nineteenth century to fire these brittle theories in the roaring furnace of a new age. "As our cause is new, so must we think anew," wrote Lincoln, for his pioneering, conflicting century. 'Thus fired and proved and strengthened, old truths were born anew and the maturing nation in conflict with herself attained a permanent maturity heretofore unknown. Romantic idealisms were moderated by tensions of a new realism; major issues and tensions increasingly became those familiar to the twentieth century. The same "great and marching words" of the glorious American past were still present and dominant, but in the mid-nineteenth century they were redefined: reality, aristocracy, wit, sin, nature, tradition, selfreliance, time, space, brotherhood, and freedom. The Civil War, that livid saber-cut across the face of American history, released pent-up conflicts so complex and comprehensive that a century has had to lapse away before they could be seen from a viewpoint even approaching a trustworthy perspective. Its accompanying literature mirrors its tumult and variety of values. Through the living words of literature, we have access to this crucial 465 period now freed from the arbitrary limitations of a place, a time, a nationality. During 1962-63 the following authors will write to us and for us: Lesson 33—Thoreau, Man in Nature Objective: To feel and appreciate Thoreau's "inexpressible satisfaction'' with the gift of life. Lesson 34—Henry David Thoreau, Individualist Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. Lesson 35—The Alcott Family Objective: To accept the Alcott home, real and fictional, as a memorable example of the unity which kindness and love can create. Lesson 36—Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Objective: To enrich our understanding and enjoyment of Holmes' wit and poetry by acknowledging the issues of his time which he represented. Lesson 37—The Literary Lincoln Objective: To establish a closer interrelationship between Lincoln's character and his writings, that we may more fully appreciate the genius of both. Lesson 383—Herman Melville (1819-1891 ) Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we may better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. 466 Lesson 39—Melville's Masterpiece— Moby Dick Objective: To enjoy sharing Moby Dick either with the first reader or with the devotee. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 Lesson 40—The Challenge of Walt Whitman Objective: To attempt a sympathetic approach to Whitman, that we may experience further insight into his greatness. PREVIEW OF LESSONS FOR 1962-63 Elder Ariel S. Ballif Course Objective: "ANKIND has always M lived in group association. Wherever this association exists, some form of regulation has been agreed upon. 'This represents man's effort to govern or to give direction to group interaction. 'The degree of regulation has varied from simple assent of the members of the group to complete dominance by a limited number. From this have developed the most effective forms of government that the group has been able to produce. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints maintains that man is a creation of God, made in his image, and entitled to God's wisdom to assist and direct him to the full expression of his capabilities. Man was placed upon this earth with instruction for growth and advancement given by the Creator himself. Blessed with free agency and designed to live in a society where choice is assured, man has varied in his response to the divine instrucTo understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children. Tion. In doing so, he has lost ground, in some instances to the extent that he could hardly be recognized in his behavior as the spirit child of God the Eternal Father. Whenever man has chosen to operate on his own without the wisdom and counsel of God, he has had to learn by trial and error. Advancement under these conditions has been slow, with many receding periods, never with the steady, consistent, upward movement that could have been his to enjoy through ehedience to divine law. When man has recognized God and been in tune witn his mind and will, his progress. Has been more directly upward toward the glory of Godhood, which is the design of the Creator. We believe that God is the Creator of this world and all life upon it, including man. We believe that there was purpose in the creation, not merely a chance arrangement. This purpose includes the opportunity for man to work out his own salvation, to develop his LESSON DEPARTMENT talents and abilities toward perfection through learning, understanding, and living the principles, laws, and commandments governing the attainment of eternal life revealed by God. These revelations are the mind and will of God. 'They are divine law. This three-year social — science course will present a study of the law of God as it has been translated into the government of his Church. The effort will be to bring to the membership of the Relief Society a better understanding of his law as it-is expressed in Church government, emphasizing women's responsibility and privileges as set forth in the relationship that exists between the divine law and its expression in Church government; in the organization and structure of the Church; and in the function of Church government in relation to the children of men. The 1962-63 course is entitled "The Foundation of Church Government." Its objective is to point out that Church government is founded upon the wisdom of God expressed in divine law and is operative through the power of the Priesthood for the welfare of man. The lesson titles and objectives follow: 467 Lesson 1—The Meaning of Divine Objective: To establish in the mind the sacred nature of Church government through the definition of divine law. Lesson 2—Divine Law and Human Welfare Objective: To make clear that divine law was made for the benefit and welfare of God's children. Lesson 3—Divine Law and Human Welfare (continued ) Objective: To establish the importance of system and order in Church government. Lesson 4—Divine Law and Priesthood Objective: To show the place and importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. Lesson 5—Application of the Jaw in the Dispensations of Man Objective: To help realize that divine law has operated from the beginning of time. Lesson 6—The Gradation of Divine Law Objective: To show the wisdom of God in the application of divine law to man. Lesson 7—Summary Objective: To focus attention on the importance of divine law as the basis for Church government. Notes on the Authors of the Lessons HIS year one new writer is represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler, author of the work meeting discussions, "The Latter-day Saint Home," follows: Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler was born in Park City, Utah. She was awarded a B. S. Degree and teaching certificate from the University of Utah, and for three years was a teacher of home economics in Utah high schools. In 1929 she was married to R. Garr Cutler. Their son Robert was born in 1930, and a son Garr was born in 10932, after the death of the father. Later Mrs. Cutler resumed her professional career and continued her education. She received a Master's degree from Stanford University in 1937, and a Ph. D. From Cornell University in 1946. For eight years she was professor and head of the home economics department at the University of Utah. For seven years she served in Southeast Asia as home economics technical adviser for the international co-operation administration of the United States Government. Devoted to the cause of education, Mrs. Cutler has personally established several scholarships in home economics at various universities, and has contributed to other scholarship projects. She has sponPage 468 sored and assisted in directing manv special educational programs in home economics. She helped to plan the drive for funds to establish the Sterling W. Sill Home Living Center at the University of Utah, and she was an unofficial consultant for Brigham Young University in planning the Heritage Halls and the College of Home and Family Living. Her publications have included a large number of contributions to the Cornell Press Bulletins, professional home economics journals, and to Latter-day Saint periodicals. She is a member of Omicron Nu; Pi Lamba Theta; Sigma Xi; Epsilon, Epsilon, Epsilon; and other scholastic and honorary societies. From 1947 to 1961, Mrs. Cutler was a member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Her sons fulfilled missionary assignments, one in Germany and one in Austria. Garr Cutler received his medical degree from the University of Utah and is now a member of the United States Air Force Medical Corps. Robert Cutler, who received his Ph. D. From Princeton University, was a member of President Kennedy's staff in the Bureau of the Budget. He died in January of 1962. Mrs. Cutler was appointed dean of the College of Family Living at Brigham Young University in 1951, and now makes her home in Provo, Utah. NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF LESSONS For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the Notes in The Relief Society Magazine, as follows: Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons, June 1957, page 410. Christine H. Robinson, author of 469 the visiting teacher messages, June 1957, Page 412. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons, July 1949, page 471. Elder Ariel S. Ballif, author of the social science lessons, June 1961, page 420. Geneva H. Williams I think of them there in the twilight When the night shades begin to fall, Father and Mother in the dear, old home That has known and sheltered us all. The house seems quiet and lonely, now, Since the children are grown and gone, But the bees still hum in the orchard bloom, And the birds sing the same sweet song. The evening star hangs over the mountain, The whippoorwill calls to its mate. The rising moon makes a path of gold On the shimmering blue of the lake. The place is flooded with memories, Memories of each sister and brother, Memories and love that take us back To our old home, and Father and Mother. | SACRED MUSIC ) FOR | WOMEN'S VOICES { | I | l | |; Ss. COME UNTO HIM "MES- | | SIAH" — Handel 0 20 | a COME YE BLESSED OF MY; | FATHER — Madsen -20 ]. FORTH IN THY NAME, O | | LORD, | GO — Madsen.20 |! Se IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY | | COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 = IN THY FORM — Madsen = | ae. JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DE- ) j SIRING — Bach _ w.. 125 | >= LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT | | FOR JOY — Stephens.20 | aoe. LORD'S PRAYER — Malotte _...25 _ MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— | Boch oo——-. 25 | Joo THE 23RD PSALM — Schubert.25 i. UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE |! EYES — Beethoven m | | —_— VOICE IN THE WILDER- | NESS — Scott 00000000. 25 Music Sent on Approval | Use this advertisement as your | order blank | eae SS ARES ES as | | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY i | |! Sal i ke a ti Utah H alt Lake City, Uta ' ]: A send the music indicated | | 1 above. I; [] On Approval [] Charge | ' [] Money Enclosed '| | Noe | | OP Eee | | | City and State | Zo | Dagnes Miasio | | ATULLLALASLLL | | | 15 E. Ist South | | 'Salt Lake City 11, Utah | | | I | I | -! Navigator Rose Thomas Graham Lights out! She slips in carefully Not to disturb a small Curly-headed roustabout Over by the wall. At first the sea is calm, but soon The billows rise and dip. This captain needs no compass To guide his worthy ship. No foghorn blows to wam him Of rocks out in the deep. His navigation's perfect, Although he's fast asleep. She hears a muffled sound or two. Could it be "All hands on deck?" He's headed straight for port and throws His anchor round her neck. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 20, 1962. Twenty-three days, including Boston, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Top Broadway show will be seen. Church historical places will also be visited, such as Nauvoo and Adam-Ondi-Ahman. EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Victoria, Canada, leaving July 23. TEN-DAY WORLD'S FAIR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving dates: August 17, September 21. Ask about our tour to the BLACK HILLS PASSION PLAY (Including Mt. Rushmore) leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt. $98.50 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Trees of Mystery Lela Foster Morris These are the giant sequoias, ancient, majestic. My heart is awed as I enter their cool tranquil shadows, I am a small humble presence before their immensities; There is no sound save for the drowsy buzz of a bee, The silken rustle of ferns as a deer leaps To the haven of dim lanes and forest pathways. These mighty trunks are pillars that support A lofty roof of interwoven boughs, Far above twilight aisles that hold a sacred stillness, For prayer and meditation an enduring sanctuary; The cool moist earth is carpeted with velvet moss, Violets and forest flowers that scent the air; Man had no part in all this glorious creation, In truth a temple wrought by God's own hand. Here these towering sequoias stood in beauty, Before the Master trod the paths of Palestine; Since, nations have lived their day and faded into oblivion, Centuries, like great barges laden with the cares of men, Have floated down time's stream into the mists, Yet these endure in serene and verdant grandeur, Their antiquity a mystery beyond all understanding. These giants stand witness to the eternity of God. E BEAUTIFUL All of the Numbers for the e HANDY e DURABLE Relief Society and M. LLA. A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruc- 7 tion of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in are obtainable at a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. —- Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate © Up to 150 miles _ ---.. 35 Vutec. (o. 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles 45 @ 600 to 1000 miles 54 70 SO. MAIN ST. EM 4-6518 1400 fo 1800 miles 6 Over 1800 miles — 0 002 --..- 87 SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Mason & Hamlin — Hardman Deseret News Press and the Original Cable Pianos Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 471 Ninety-nine Mrs. Ipa ANNIE LYNHAM STRATFORD Ogden, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. HANNAH StuBBs JONES Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Errig Procror Coy Berkeley, California Ninety-four Mrs. Errie KILLENGER Myers Seattle, Washington Mrs. BopeLy, HansEN JENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Nancy HAMMER MATHEWS Shelley, Idaho Ninety-two Mrs. EvizABETH STEVENS BIGLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. IpA McE. LDOWNEY Norwalk, California Ninety Mrs. IpaA May PEAcH GILLESPIE Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. FLora Buck Ogden, Utah Mrs. SARAH JANE RoacH Bowers Burley, Idaho Mrs. OLEON SMITH RICE Farmington, Utah Page 472 | Pity the Child Christie Lund Coles I pity the city child Whose heart has not grown still At sight of a river singing, Or a country-summer hill; Before star-flowered night, And the morning's chorale; And the magical secrets Fields or orchards can tell. A city's ways are narrow With mortar, brick, and stone; But country lanes grow wider For a child to walk alone. NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — June 29, July 3, August 6 July 9 leaving from Phoenix, Arizona EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, Portland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — June 15, August 9, September 8, September 22. HAWAII June 7, June 24 HILL CUMORAH TOUR leaving July 28 MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 ife's Directions > First Presidency and eight members of the Council of Twelve discuss vital issues with youth, their parents, their leaders in this wonderful new volume. Delivered as Fireside Addresses, these thirteen selections cover basic aciples and express warmth and concern for the happiness 1 salvation of both old and young. Some of the titles are: Jarve Character — Shape A Soul" (President David O. Ay); "Value of Knowing the Scriptures in Your Youth" resident J. Reuben Clark, Jr.); "Knowledge of and dience to Law Is Evidence of Maturity" (President Hugh Brown); others. SUOMIGNG $. Af{I] The managing editor of The Improvement Era, one of the Church's foremost authorities on the life of Al THE Jesus, takes you on a vividly descriptive, pictorial tour: of the Holy Land: to the little town of Bethlehem, Jerusalem, the Mount of Olives, Garden of Gethe OTSTEPS semane, the Sea of Galilee, and all the sacred spots where the Savior labored and lived. The full color OF and black-and-white photographs are many and magnificent! JESUS Doyle L. Green Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: have an account. Please charge. For (encircled) numbered books: 195 Book Co. > Salt Lake City, Utah. Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) 1 Amount enclosed $ 1 2 Zone So. —— Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax, sth Bf Tt Is your life insurance Beneficial? The engineer is reshaping the face of America and America's future. His dynamic creativity helped put America in space and will help keep us there. His knowledge, refined in scores of specialized skills, is the best armor we have NOV 62 against our enemies from without. Many engineers, like knowledgeable men in many other fields, armor their families with Beneficial Life Insurance. There is a plan for every family. Perhaps yours is the Beneficial Benefactor, the plan that protects every member of your family — even the future additions. Ask your Beneficial man about it today. BENEFICIAL LIFE Salt Lake City, Utah Virgil H. Smith, Pres. 
