Eva' Wille Wangsgaaed ale. September ltteers richly gold and bine, Insisting on extension of the warm Sun-smothered mellowness that summer knew, A shining interim before the storm. |. An. Azure' wing limns. Garlands on -the Sky, Idyllic notes, give voice to shrub and-tree. =~ \° ) ~~ "Fall; bold chrysanthemums, 'unhurried, try — ~~~ Torpaint a wallin bronze and burgundy. Ey See yStill heavy-leafed, the Norway maples hold | _* "=> Aeparasol oF green for-us 'beneath. _ Your hands encompass mine, and all is gold" And crimson, warm as love's vermilion sheath. Savor this time of fullness ripening, Before the fallen leaf, the southeo) wing. The Cover: Autumn at Mount: Whitney, "California, Fish h Hatchery Color Transparency. By: Josef. 'MuenchFrontispiece: Mount Timpanogos, Ue: Photograph by W lard Luce Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press; Before the Failing beat. TOM For many years I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine, and now let me say an orchid to the June issue, with all the information pertaining to our organization's growth, previews of lessons for the coming year, poems, lovely pictures, recipes, the beautiful cover, the frontispiece poem on the Lion House, but loveliest of all is the tribute to our dear President McKay's lovely wife, Sister Emma Ray McKay. I think the picture of her at the age of sixteen is the most beautiful I have ever seen. Likewise, almost seventy years later, she is equally as beautiful. How grateful I am for Sister McKay and for the Magazine. —Veatrice Poulson Los Angeles, California How I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. When the June issue arrived, I turned to the tribute to Sister McKay, with her picture at age sixteen on the opposite page. I don't think I have ever seen anything so beautiful, innocent, lovely, and sweet. It really touched me. Then I turned the page and there she was — just as lovely at eighty-four — kindness, love, and understanding radiating from her face. She is truly a wonderful woman, and we are proud of her as the companion of our good, kind, and great President McKay. I was also interested in the article "The Blessings of Family Unity," by Irene W. Buehner. They must be a wonderful family. —Mae W. Cardon Farmington, New Mexico I turn first to the stories and poems in The Relief Society Magazine, but I enjoy also the articles, recipes, and lesson materials. What an economical way to receive a college education! And what a help to busy mothers in rearing their children. —Uneva L. Workman North Las Vegas, Nevada 634 ar aan My sister and I have been members of the Church for nearly two years, and have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine since the beginning of 1962. We wish to express our appreciation for the Magazine, with its beautiful covers. These covers give people who live so far away a feeling of almost being right there in that wonderful continent of America. We love this Magazine, with its heart-touching stories, inspiring lessons, beautiful poetry, and the wonderful testimonies _ that strengthen our own of this glorious gospel. Our branch here in Bulawayo is small, and it is wonderful to receive news through the Magazine about members living in America, and in other lands. —Shirley and Charlotte Woolf Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia South Africa The Magazine is wonderful. The lessons on The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants have been most helpful in studying the standard works of the Church. The other lessons are equally helpful, the stories and articles interesting and enjoyable. I love to read the poetry. —FEdna I. Hayes Lorenzo, Idaho The sisters in our Scottish-Irish Mission have been so happy and thrilled with our new Relief Society Magazine. I am so proud to hand it to our new sisters and explain that it is just one of our many lovely Church publications. Each time a new issue comes, I eagerly read and enjoy its contents. I have especially enjoyed Ilene H. Kingsbury's lovely stories, as she is an acquaintance of mine. I was very happy to read of Sister Hazel S. Cannon's appointment to the General Board. She, too, was a school friend of mine. —Nada R. Brockbank ~~ President Scottish-Irish Mission Relief Society

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager Erratum: Date for 1962 Relief Society Conference 656 

Content
SPECIAL FEATURES Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 22 ccec ccececeeeeeeeccenenneceeeeee 636 Our Redeemer Lives oo eee David O. McKay 638 Portrait of Freedom ooo one eccecceceeeeesceeeneeneccenneececceteneeneecseeceeeeceeseceseeseeeeeeesAlberta Huish Christensen 640 FICTION Please Call Me Timmy 22 once ceeenc ences ncn ene eenenennenneeteneececnenesecencencensoecaesnecaesceersaseccateneeceneesMyrtle M. Dean 646 Relief Society — A Must cccecececcece cece cece ce eeeee ene cenneesccnseeeseeeneeeeseesecescceseecceeeneeJeannene J. Nelson 658 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 3. WW i crShirley Thulin 660 Hand to the Plow — Part V — Westward Once More -0o -cescseseseseeceeeseseeeesIlene H. Kingsbury 678 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ooo.0o eeecceeeeee a neanvessnseuceese++s++ac-ustdeeecseseeness =navessrl-s<0enesi tne 634 Sixty Years Ago on ccc cece ceceeceeceeneesceecceeeesesesnceceneneecceneeesccsseenecssesessescceecee ee 652 Woman's Sphere one. Eeeee cece ene en ee ence ee ne nee eneenecneenecaneeenesesneeeeecesececeueenecescessesaeneseeneRamona W. Cannon 653 Editorial: "Upon... The Parents' ooo ccccee ec eceececeeeececeeececceeeeessesseeseceeneveceeseneeceMarianne C. Sharp 654 Irene B. Woodford Released from General Board ooo ccceecseeseeeeee. 656 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 2.0.00 ellectececccccccceeceeceeceseeseesesseseeensessHulda Parker 683 Birthday Congratulations 22 ccecscesccceseesecee eccecoseee scneasccescnanecssoceocessnsseuseeseeeneeee _ 712 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Magic of Indoor Gardemimg oo cocci ceece ence ene eeeeeeeeeeceeececenesneeeeneeneeeeeeneneesMaude W. Howard 666 Baking Day at Homme oon. Ceccececee eee ene see seeeeecesncneeeeneseeeceeee eeceeseneeeeseeeLinnie Fisher Robinson 672 It Is Never Too Early For Making Gifts -2 00.0.. Tcc. CscceececcseseceecesceseeescececeececeeeeececeueeeeceeeseoeesClara Laster 674 Mae Martindale Johnson — Organist and Teacher of MUSiC 2oi cs. Ccsseccccececcceeseseeseeccesencececeenensncecoee 690 LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Theology — The Day of Rest and Devotions 20.00. CcccccccceccscececeneeeececescosseneeesentececceeeeRoy W. Doxey 691 Map Available for Theology Course ooo ceceeccsecsc-csneceeessececeesesenenessnessnsssoseneciessusseceesssscsessesese 696 Visiting Teacher Messages — ''Be of Good Cheer') o. O. O. C c-ccsceceeccsseceeeesChristine H. Robinson 697 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part III) onan. Cnoes sn ccn ne acecnnenccerencncucnceneeee= a sesesssseeseeereeeeeeeee Virginia F. Cutler 698 Literature — The Alcott Family ooo ooeccoccccccccccssssscscocsesccsesesessussbeesitetecseseetecebeeees cose. Briant S. Jacobs 701 Visual Aid Packet Available for 1962-63 Literature LeSSOMS oocccccccccccccccccoececceeeeeecoeeeeceeceee 708 POETRY Before the Falling Leaf — Frontispiece ccc.-ccceccccceceeecccsesescsssceeeeeeeeeeeeceeeeeEva Willes Wangsgaard 633 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

635 Birthday Congratulations to ( Sashes D with on his Eighty-Ninth Birthda oo - eee 55 - o le | ©. _ r, at a Seen - a > a _— a | At this time in the month of September, Relief Society women 'in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend birthday congratulati¢ os to President David O. McKay. In gratitude, and with thankful hearts for his blessed years upon the earth, we rejoice that a Prophet. Of t Lord lives among us and directs the Church and all its activities. 2 id organizations through the power of revelation., i — In these latter days, in a time of multiplied snernberstin "in. The™t Church, we are among those whose hearts are lifted up to nae; that~ et ry the voice of President McKay has been heard among the nations-and*) that thousands in many lands have looked upon his face and have-par taken of the inspiration of his devoted leadership. From early manhood and into his late years, President McKay has carried afar the message of "= _the everlasting gospel and has bridged the continents in witnessof- = dispensation of the fulness of times. He has visited every mission of Church upon the face of the earth. It is our prayer that President McKay's stirring words of tStimant (= his message of comfort, his witness of the Christ and the everlasting Bs gospel, may be long upon the earth. May his influence be upon the gef-s erations to come, that thousands, from the shining example of President) McKay, may have their own lives illuminated on the pathway of eten ne progress. = tg D peptember 8, 1962 Great Britain Ireland Canada Peru Brazil Argentina © )Uruguay Mexico Chile Central re +. South Africa Austria Switzerland Germany" ice Netherlands Norway Sweden Denmark Finlaiid Palestine Syria New Zealand Australia "a ur Redeeme "For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth " (Job 19:25). HE who can thus testify of the living Redeemer has his soul anchored in eternal truth. That the spirit of man passes triumphantly through the portals of death into everlasting life is one of the glorious messages given by Christ, our Redeemer. To Him this earthly career is but a day and its closing put the setting of life's sun; death, but a sleep, ls followed by a glorious awakening in the moming of an eternal realm. When Mary and Martha saw their prother in the dark and silent tomb, Christ saw him still a living being. This fact He expressed in the two words ". - - Lazarus sleepeth... I'. If everyone participating in Easter services knew that the crucified Christ actually rose on the third day from the tomb — that after having mingled with others in the spirit world, His spirit did again reanimate His pierced body, and after sojourning among men for the space of forty days, ascended, a glorified soul, to His Father — what benign peace would » come to souls now troubled with doubt and uncertainty! While it is true that knowledge of individual "mortality does not depend upon the actuality of the resurrection of Jesus, yet the establishment of the fact that He arose from the grave and communicated with His disciples would furnish in many ways the strongest support of that hope. 638 e La \ CS President David O. McKay There is no cause to fear death; it is but an incident in life. It is as natural as birth. Why should we fear it? Some fear it because they think it is the end of life, and life often is the dearest thing we have. Eternal life is man's greatest blessing. If only men would "do His will' instead of looking hopelessly at the dark and gloomy tomb, they would turn their eyes heavenward and know that "Christ is risen!" Christ came to redeem the world from sin. He came with love in His heart for every individual, with redemption and possibility for regeneration for all. By choosing Him as our ideal, we create within ourselves a desire to be like Him, to have fellowship with Him. We perceive life as it should be and as it may be. The chief apostle Peter, the indefatigable Paul, the Prophet Joseph Smith, and other true followers of the Risen Lord recognized in Him the Savior of the individual, for did He not say: "... This is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man'? (Moses 1:39), not the sacrificing of the individual for the perpetuation of the socialistic or communistic state. Members of the Church of Christ are under obligation to make the sinless Son of Man their ideal. He is the one perfect being who ever walked the earth; the sublimest example of nobility; Godlike in nature; perfect in His love; our Redeemer; our Savior; the immaculate Son of our Eternal Father; the Light, the Life, the Way. With all my soul I know that death is conquered by Jesus Christ. Because our Redeemer lives, so shall we! 639 Alberta Huish Christensen Member, General Board of Relief $ Portrait o Hrom What can you see, William Bradford, Looking seaward, looking skyward, the Looking landward from the dunes? Dunes Seaward and misty, are three months of ocean; 1620 Between sky and water, a small ship faced homew Above you, the airborne, is a wedge of geese flyin Can you see tomorrow's silver wings tying Continents together and erasing time? Trace circling orbits of the satellite Beyond the pull of earth into lunar night? Back from the beachhead, in from the broken sho Your small, transplanted Bible-world Makes roof against the storm. Though more Are silent than will speak, thinned By the sickness to a remnant few, They look to you for healing; less for the curled Herb leaf than words to mend their ailing dreams; Yet puny now seem words — thin syllables of so Like washing waves or echoings of wind Within the harbor's coved and granite seams. *This poem sequence received the George Washington Honor Medal Award by the Freedom Foundation at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania, April 1962. 640 Hreedom How can you vision from that stony ledge Tomorrow's subtle skill, companioning The scalpel's thin and severing edge, Mending the broken cell, the fractured bone? You cannot pierce the tree-dark wilderness, Where cities rise, tomorrow, tower-high; Or see their scholared men intent upon The search for truth, from layered earth to sky, Tracing the path of evidence and cause With slide rule and the searching lens; > Defining fossil and the deuteron. But, looking Plymouthward, how well you see That hunger cuts irrelevance away,: And that compassion is a friendly fire; That memory can rear a sinewed wall Against the apathy of lost desire. Oh; looking Plymouthward, how well you see That faith grows tall to meet adversity. Need you see more, young Bradford, from the dunes? Four months after the arrival of the Mayflower, in 1620, William Bradford, age thirty-one, was elected Governor of Plymouth Colony. He held the position for approximately thirty years. The survival and prosperity of the Plymouth Colony were largely due to his great faith and guidance. 641 Philadelphia Su Significance and Sound (toleffersoniz Do not remember Monticello now, Or tidelands where Rivanna River flows, The pale magnolia night, a moon full set On terraced gardens, cyclamen and rose. Do not recall the music of her voice, A meeting of the eyes, a gilded fan — Remembrances can tear the hour apart, And you must speak tonight for every man. You phrase, rephrase, then write, yet write again, Deep urgencies are crying to be heard "Created equal... Self-evident" — Significance is focused in a word. Oh, do not dream of Monticello now, Think only concept, syllable, and sound; Your phrases will be sun to pierce the dark, Your words — a treasure-vessel — outward bound Portrait of Freedom Thomas Jefferson, a delegate to the Continenta Congress of 1776, which convened at Philadelphia Pennsylvania, was assigned the honor of draftin the Declaration of Independence. Only duty t country could lure him from his beautiful Monticell home in Virginia and his beloved wife Marth Wayles Jefferson. e se er (Constitutional Convention, 1787) Prelude Although unnumbered summers come to leaf And pass, as winds across the dormant field, Leaving no imprint on the land, no yield Of image in the heart, this heirloom sheaf Of days, from waning May through mid-September, History has bound against time and ember. Of Those Who Did Not Sign These lines are of @ patriot three who stood Upon the edge of greatness; each declined That immortality time has assigned To names affixed, for evil or for good. Conviction, stoutly held, made them reject The structure they had labored to erect. Yet here is testament that they would keep Its basic cornerstone — did keep and use. And here is Witness that they held heart-deep The sacred, the inherent right to choose. Of Those Who Signed These are the Signatures of seasoned men, The war drum silent now, its Passion spent. Homespun and velvet clothed they came, Who sealed approval with a Written name To words engrossed and Paragraphed upon A parchment reservoir of clear intent. Here compromise, opinion, swift debate, And all the worded currents of dissent Have merged, as tributaries to a stream Merge into even flow. Recall how deep, How Wisely wide the channel of their dream. How like a lantern hung against the night — These Signatures of freedom, uncoerced: Like pilot flares of wonder that ignite The embered hope to flame and flame again; How like a spring to whitened lips that thirst! These are the signatures of men who made The spirit of a people word-articulate: The yearning hope, the fear, and the intensity Of their belief, that man in God's design is free. Portrait of Freedom. A Poem Sequence Alberta Huish Christensen 644 Immigrant Speaking 12 They ask of me, for they do not know, What is this freedom in your new land? And I say to them: Freedom it is, where all in my house Are safe. Men do not take us away, one from another. And freedom it is, to speak all things — What is in the heart and what comes to the mind Sometimes they are happy words, Sometimes questions. In my new land, I speak all words To my family, to friends, to all people. Freedom it is, to speak all things. Most wonderful it is, the right to believe, To teach the little ones (nine children I have). No one there is to stop me, Saying, "There is no God." Freedom it is — the right to believe. So I say to them, for they do not know, Freedom it is, that does not build a wall. Freedom is my country — my new land! Do Not Forget (Words for Today) Do not forget the nights upon dark water, The pathless waves of sea; Do not forget the bravery Of men seeking uncharted harbors, Wilderness of mountain and the barrier stream. Do not forget their dream To own, to sow, to reap, And then to sleep In peace and unafraid. Recall the winter months at Valley Forge And men with neither shoes nor food; Remember one in solemn prayer Who wept for them — Who wept for them, in the white wood. Do not forget how Founding Fathers built That deep foundation, on a misty reef; Their shaping of conviction, word by word, With implements of phrase not used before. Oh, hold inviolate their firm belief. Recalling one who framed by taper light The watchword of a nation, not yet born, Remember yet another, lean and tall — A lonely man upon a lonely road — Anguished, and yearning for the guns to cease, Who held the soul enslaved, Too great a price for peace. America, my Country, Do not forget. 645 Please call me Tiinin Myrtle M. Dean LLIE Stevens — sixth grade — A this information was neatly printed on a placard and taped just outside the door of the room in the Benton school. Allie was there early to greet her pupils as they came in. Thirty seats ran in rows through the room. A frightening sense of responsibility swept through her as each child entered and looked her over. 'Their new teacher, a woman, slight of figure, and an easy mark, probably, was the judgment many of them were forming right now, Allie thought. After a brief greeting and a curious glance at her, each went to locate the seat he preferred. The students who lived far from the school came in on buses. It was one of the boys who came with this group that caused Allie to wonder, and left her vaguely disturbed. He came in hesitantly, and glanced about. She thought the look he gave her held more than mere curiosity. He did not search about for a special seat, but went uncertainly to the back of the room. He sat heavily in one on the last row. There was something in the boy's 646 face that she could not divine. Was it mere shyness or heart hunger, or perhaps the boy had been ill? Something in his eyes made Allie's heart turn over in sympathy akin to pain. Allie had taught school in her home town for two years before she was married. David was on a mission. When he returned they were married in the temple and came to live in Benton, David's home town. Little Cindy had been born a year later. Now as Allie saw fathers, driving fine cars, stop to let their children out for school, and go on about their business, her heart gave a wrench of pain. 'This morning she had left Cindy at the kindergarten for her first day. David would have been so proud to see her sparkling eyes as she ran to the teacher. Why did she have to lose David when they had only begun their lives together? She had asked so many times. She had tried hard to keep bitterness out of her heart since he died. When the school board had asked her to teach, it had seemed a challenge, and might be a way to turn her thoughts from her own PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY troubles, now that Cindy was in school. As Allie called the roll, she made some mental note on each pupil as he answered his name. 'They were each so different. She wanted to evaluate them fairly. She must gain their respect and understanding. Carol Adams — a blonde girl, with a child face and grownup manner, she thought. Evelyn Carroll — a pleasant child, with dark sparkling eyes, was the judgment. Ronald Gardner — a lad who likes fun more than study, Allie found herself thinking. Jimmy Stuart — a show-off, and maybe a bully. Allie checked herself hurriedly — first impressions may count, but I don't want to draw hasty conclusions, she thought. She continued on through the roll. 'Thirty boys and girls. She came to the name of the boy on the back row — Timothy Parker — She called his name and smiled, trying to assure him that she was a friend. He answered his name quietly. 'There was a slight response to her smile. Again, that puzzled feeling swept through her. I must get acquainted with his mother. This boy seems so different, Allie told herself. As the days passed, 'Timothy nearly always recited well, yet at times, he sat with a faraway look and gazed out of a window. Sometimes she called his name twice to bring his attention back to the class. Some days she felt that she was reaching the boy, then he would fall back on his unresponsive manner. Allie began to feel almost frustrated with trying to reach him. 647 HERE is nothing like having a pupil reveal himself in telling of a true experience, Allie told herself, a few weeks after school started. "T would like each of you to write a composition. The subject is to be, 'A Trip I have 'Taken.' Tell of the things you did, the place you went, and with whom." Would Timothy really express himself so that she might understand him better? "Do you know Timothy well? Do you live near him?" she asked one of the boys who rode in on the same bus as Timothy, from the south benchland. "Timothy lives farther out than I do," John told her. "He lives with his uncle on a little farm. You know his father and mother were killed in a car accident a few years ago. His little sister, too. Timothy was with them, but he was only hurt and got well. His uncle has a lot of kids of his own," John added. This revelation left Allie weak and ashamed that she had not sooner tried to learn more of Timothy's real life. She had just kept probing from the surface. "Timothy doesn't talk much. He won't say anything about his folks. They say he is a little queer since the accident," John said. "John, I hope we will all be kind and understanding of Timothy. He is really a bright boy. It is only this deep shock and his sorrow that cause him to act differently," Allie explained. "Golly, he has had lots of trouble. He stayed with his grandmother after his folks died. She was real old, and she died last year, so that is why he stays with his uncle 648 now." John related these facts with serious eyes. Allie wondered now if she had made a mistake in asking for a composition on the subject she had. A trip, when probably the only trip Timothy would be able to think of would be this tragic trip of the accident. She watched carefully as the papers were handed in for 'Timothy's name on one of them. Maybe he would not write at all. Her hands trembled as she shuffled through the papers at the end of the day. Relief filled her as she saw Timothy Parker at the head of the neatly written page. "A Fishing 'Trip to Hilton River," was the title. The class showed interest in the things their classmates had expetienced, as each one read his story. Allie began with Ronald Gardner. His was a trip to the circus. Carol Adams told of a trip to Yellowstone Park. Jimmy Stuart's trip, as a teacher might expect from Jimmy, "A Trip to the Moon." The amusement the class displayed satisfied his ego and paid him for his effort. "Timothy, may we hear of your trip now?" Allie asked, trying to keep unusual concern from her vOICe. The boy hesitated briefly, then moved to the front, and after a fleeting, fearful glance at his class, he began his story. "A Fishing 'Trip to Hilton River,' he announced. The boys sat up straighter as he mentioned fishing. Confidence came into Timothy's voice more and more as he heard the chuckles of his classmates and saw the interest in their eyes as he read. Sentence after sentence in the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 boy's story revealed to Allie the closeness and love 'Timothy had felt for his father. "My father was a good fisherman. Mama fixed us a nice lunch and sent it along in a basket. I felt sort of funny at first when I baited my hook, but I didn't want Father to think I was a baby." 'Timothy's eyes sparkled as he read: "I felt a hard tug on my line. 'I've got a bite. A real hard one,' I told Father. 'Don't let him get away. Hold your line tight, Timmy.' I reeled fast and here came in a whopper of a speckled trout. I hoisted him onto the bank. 'You are a real good fisherman, Timmy,' Father said. He always called me Timmy." "That is excellent, Timothy," Allie said. 'Tears were close behind her eyelids and she blinked them back hurriedly. "My father called me Timmy," spoke so much of tenderness and love from this boy's father. She wanted to call him Timmy now, but thought, maybe the boy would want the name held for only his own to call him. "T am very pleased with all of your stories. I feel that I know all of you better," Allie told them. ACH afternoon Allie stopped by the kindergarten to get her little Cindy and take her home. One evening they came upon Timothy as he walked along the street on the outskirts of town. Allie wondered that the boy should be there after school, instead of riding the bus home as usual. It was several miles to the South Bench homes. She saw he had several parcels in his hands. "Timothy, oh, Timothy," she PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY called out to him. "Come and ride. We will drive you home." The boy turned in surprise and hesitated a moment. Then, with a grateful look, he hurried over and climbed in the seat beside little Cindy and his teacher. "Did you miss your bus, Timothy? It is a long walk out to the bench," Allie said. "T had to stop at the drugstore and get some medicine and some things for my aunt. The baby is sick, and my uncle doesn't get off work in time to get to the stores,' Timothy explained in a tired but uncomplaining voice. Allie looked at the boy closely as he rode beside her. He was a handsome lad, with dark brown eyes which held too much of sadness, his features made thin by loss of stimulating and happy surroundings to give him strength of body and spirit. How David would have loved such a son, Allie thought. Cindy seemed delighted by Timothy's company. She chattered happily, told him about her school, asked questions. He answered her, seeming to feel at ease and a smile was on his lips and a sparkle was in his eyes. "Is my Mommy your teacher?" Cindy asked him. "Yes, she is.' The way the boy replied made Allie feel that he was pleased that she was his teacher. "Now, Cindy, you mustn't ask too many questions," Allie told her. Cindy needs a companion at home, too, Allie thought. I'm sure She is lonely. I let myself fall into a depressed mood too often. I'm not very good company for her. As they stopped at the Parker's house, Allie noted the surroundings. 649 A small white cottage with peeling paint. 'The yard was small and somewhat cluttered. 'There was no adequate place for children to play. "Cindy, you wait a minute in the car, dear. I want to help Timothy in with his parcels," Allie said. "I'd like to meet your relatives, 'Timothy. You have quite a few things to carry, too, with all your books and things." "Thank you for bringing me home, Mrs. Stevens." The boy's voice was grateful. Mrs. Parker came to the door, a question in her eyes. 'There was a small child clinging to her skirts. Mr. Parker sat in a chair across the room with a baby in his lap, who was coughing and crying pitifully. Two small boys came in from the kitchen door, scuffling and arguing over a ball one of them had tucked in his hands behind him. Oh, dear, this is no time to try and call on Timothy's people, Allie told herself. She hurried to explain her presence there. "Ym Timothy's teacher, Mrs. Parker. I just happened along the street and saw Timothy walking, so I drove him home. It is so nice to be outside these evenings after being in the schoolroom all day." Allie didn't want the boy's folks to think she was censuring them. "Won't you come in?" Mrs. Parker invited in a tired voice. "Timothy has spoken of his teacher. I hope he is a good boy in school," she added. Timothy hurried on ahead and into the kitchen to deposit his things. He wants to evade a report on his deportment, Allie thought. She answered promptly, so that he might hear, "Timothy is a good stu- 650 dent, and is always obedient at school." Allie stepped inside. "I won't sit down," she said, as Mrs. Parker drew up a chair. "My little girl is waiting for me in the car. I do hope the baby will soon be well." As she went out she noticed a girl of about ten setting the table in the kitchen. Another small girl came in carrying a little gray kitten which was trying to squirm from her too-tight grasp. That makes six children I have seen here. All of them are younger than Timothy, Allie thought. No wonder their mother seems so overburdened and weary. Timothy must feel that he is an added burden. As Allie went out she saw 'Timothy peeking through the kitchen doorway. He had changed into everyday clothing. The boy would probably find home chores to do. He smiled and called to her, "Thank you, teacher, for driving me home." ' To see a smile on this boy's face gave her a warmth inside. She returned his smile, and replied warmly, "Pll see you tomorrow, 'Timot y." "T like Timothy, Mommy. He is a@emice boy. He talked to me,' Cindy said as they drove homeward. "Timothy is nice, darling. Glad we took him home." I'm Dre caer brief replies to Cinqueries, Allie was meditative ee ble Since seeing the condition of the Parkers, she was more concerned than before over this troubled boy. They wanted to do their best for Timothy, she knew, but they had so many problems with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 a large family of small children. Timothy would never be a real part of that family, nor could he find there the comfort and fulfillment that was necessary to a boy who had met such misfortunes. "Mommy, I wish I had someone at home to play with me. I wish I had a brother." For a moment Allie looked at her child in surprise. She had not thought of Cindy being lonely, and she had tried always to hide her own loneliness from her. "Cindy, I wish...." Allie's words were cut off by a sudden thought. It so forcefully pressed upon her that for a moment she could not speak. David, oh, David, if you were only here to tell me what to do. If you were here, this wild, crazy idea I am having would be different. It would be all right with you to help, but I am only a woman with one little girl to care for. But, David, this boy needs someone. Someone to take time to love and help him. Sometimes it did seem that David had been so near that he could help her make decisions. "See, Mommy, there is Jeff Dawson and the Boy Scouts. They are on a field trip." Cindy clapped her hands excitedly as a bevy of quail scurried from the place where Jeff and about a dozen boys stood grouped about him. The _ birds scampered across the roadway in front of their car. Timothy should be with groups of boys like those, and with men like Jeff, Allie thought. He should have time to run through green meadows, to hear the singing of birds, and to climb the hills, and fish, and swim and play. It seemed that now the sight of Jeff Dawson PLEASE CALL ME TIMMY and these boys had made her know she must do something for 'Timothy. "Cindy, do you think it would be nice if Timothy came here to live with us? He could be like a brother to you." Allie spoke these words fearfully. What if the boy would not wish to come? "Oh, Mommy, I'd like Timmy." Intuitively, Cindy had spoken the name Timmy, just as a sister would call him. HAT night Allie poured thoughtfully over the words she was writing. It was a very important message; important to herself and to her own child, as well as to Timothy, and to his people who, in his dire need, had kindly taken him in. She must not let this be a mistake for all of them. The next day was Saturday. Allie was full of anxiety. Prayerfully she went about her morning tasks. She went to her bedroom alone and knelt by the side of her bed. "Heavenly Father, if Timothy comes to us, please make me a wise and good mother to him. Help him to love me, as I will love him." Cindy burst into the room hurriedly, calling, "Mommy, Mommy, here comes Mr. Parker, and Timmy is with him!" Allie could hardly breathe with the mingling of fearfulness and the 651 happiness she felt as she went to meet them. Cindy ran ahead of her and took Timothy by the hand. As they walked up the path together, Timothy was smiling and Cindy looked up into his face with beaming eyes. Now Allie knew that her fears that Timothy would not want to come were unfounded, and she saw also in the face of Hyrum Parker a look of gratefulness, even before she had talked to him. She knew now that Timothy's relatives did not consider her presumptive to make this request for their nephew. Later, she could talk with him about legal adoption. After Hyrum Parker had bade Timothy goodbye, she saw him turn away and brush tears from his eyes. For only a moment the boy's face clouded, then he said, "I'll come to see you often, Uncle Hyrum." Then, when Hyrum was out of sight, the boy turned to Allie. The bright light in his eyes spoke more than any words could have told her. He was glad to be here. "Timothy, we are glad to welcome you in our home, and hope you will be happy." Her eyes were moist as she spoke to him. "Won't you please call me Timmy?" he asked simply. "Yes, yes, and we love you, Timmy." Autumn Zara Sabin Thistle and goldenrod are lining the highways, Tall in the meadow the sunflowers glow, Spider-web lace mantles bushes and byways.... Soon it is time for the coming of snow. N AND THE Ricnts OF THE Women OF ALL Nations" — News Note SEPTEMBER On leaf and flower the sunlight lay After the close of g mild, delightfy] day — In softened beauty the landscape showed, bove the azure, below the green, And a mystic glory of light between,. - — Authors Magazine on to Hebron and met a few sisters _ '+ We had a nice meeting and went on to Sister ary A, Terry's ranch, where we were kindly cared for. We then went to Clover Valley and met with the Relief Society. 652 tet ee & See oe FF 88228 RS. EMILY SMITH STEWART, Salt Lake City, Utah, daughter of President George Albert Smith, has been awarded a bronze plaque for "outstanding contributions in the field of medical care.' 'The award was presented in June at a special meeting of the Utah Medical Association. Mrs. Stewart has spent much of her life as a volunteer worker in public organizations, having held many State and National posts with the National Foundation, and _ with other organizations devoted to raising the standard of medical care. ANY mothers find the Children's Bureau 106-page booklet Infant Care very helpful with their baby problems. Its advice is based on the experience of doctors, psychologists, nutritionists, nurses, and parents. Published first in 1914, it is continuously revised and brought up to date. A copy may be obtained by sending fifteen cents in coins (no stamps) to the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D. C. JACQUELINE AURIOL, fortyfour years old, and daughter-inlaw of former French president Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Vincent Auriol, on June 22 broke American Jacqueline Cochran's world speed record for women fliers over a 100-kilometer closed circuit. She piloted her French Mirage-3 jet at about 1,150 miles per hour, flying almost constantly at twice the speed of sound. Jacqueline Cochran won the woman's speed record over a year ago, and in 1953 she became the first woman to break the sound barrier. ISS HELGARD VOIGT, seventeen years of age and a member of the Frankfurt Branch of the Servicemen's District of the West German Mission, recently became the European champion in the 1962 American Legion Oratorical Contest. She won over approximately 290 American high school student contestants in Europe. BRINSH commoner Toni Gardiner, daughter of a colonel stationed in Jordan, married that country's King Hussein more than a year ago, and is now the mother of infant Prince Abdullah, heir to the Hashemite throne. She and the king live most of the time in a small two-servant farmhouse, "The House of Goodness and Love," ten miles from Amman. 653 EDITORIAL SEPTEMBER 1962 "Upon the Parents" TERNAL progression is only possible through the nghteous exercise of free agency which is given to every soul in this world. While repressive laws may limit the full exercise of free agency, everyone has the power to choose good or evil. When a woman marries she does her part in building a happy marriage by the choices she makes in her everyday actions and works. However, when she and her husband become parents, then their free agency is not only to be exercised in their own behalf, but must also be exercised in behalf of their children, for the responsibility for their eternal welfare has been placed by the Lord upon the parents. A young teacher looked around her class of attentive, seven-year-old boys as she finished a lesson, "And Joseph Smith saw Heavenly Father and his Son Jesus Christ." One of the boys spoke up, "I don't believe it." 'The teacher showed her consternation as did the other boys in the silence that followed. "My daddy says it isn't so," the boy concluded. "Well, Jack," the teacher spoke firmly, "I know he saw them." "So 654 do I," the rest of the class chorused. "My mama says so and so does my daddy," many added. The teacher realized that all the lessons she had so earnestly given Jack the past year had been unable to overcome the false teachings Jack had received at home. Where truth had been instilled in the boys, her well-prepared lessons had strengthened them, but she learned that the words of a teacher, however sincere, had little power to confute the words of a child's parents. Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants instructs parents in Zion or in any of her organized stakes to give understanding to their children when eight years old in "the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands," and "to teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." This charge cannot be passed on to anyone else or any organization by parents. The Lord has placed it upon the parents. Because of the different duties and responsibilities which devolve upon a father and a mother, it ls SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD B. Hart S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth the mother who gives the. Hourly training and teachings to the children. From the time a young child prays to his Heavenly Father, a wise mother explains about him and compares Heavenly Father's love and attributes to his earthly father. From the time a child lisps "in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen," the wise mother builds her child's faith in Jesus, the Savior, as the dearly beloved Son of Heavenly Father. The use of proper picture books is a great aid in teaching of the mission of Jesus. 'The child also learns of the principle of repentance as the mother causes him to feel sorry for his misdeeds. He is taught of the blessing of baptism and to realize that after baptism he will be given the Holy Ghost to lead him aright and guide him through his future life. The constant training opportunity given to a dedicated, loving mother to nurture each child in the ways of the Lord, as each new occasion arises, is one of the most cogent reasons why a mother remains in the home. The father, the bearer of the Priesthood, directs the instruction of his children and evaluates their S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Mary V. Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lioyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Cameron progress. 'Through his daily attention and in Family Hours he gives needed instruction and clears up uncertainties. Yet even in the absence of a father, a faithful, devoted mother can accept the responsibility laid upon parents by the Lord and prayerfully bring understanding to her children on these most vital matters. Some of the great leaders of the Church have been children of widows or ones whose fathers have not been active Church members. A testimony of the gospel may be firmly rooted in a child by the time of his baptism and also the realization that at baptism he will have reached the age of accountability. Yet in the training of children, as in all else in the world, free agency is given to parents. 'The child who is faithfully reared as a Latter-day Saint usually returns to the fold, even after a period of inactivity, but a child whose early doctrinal training is neglected by the parents may never accept the teachings of the gospel, and the awful responsibility for his eternal welfare always will remain upon the heads of the parents, as decreed by the Lord. —M. C. S. 655 Irene B. Woodford Released from General Board — T is with a sense of loss that the General Board announces the release" of Irene B. Woodford from the General Board of Relief Society as of August 15, 1962. Her release is necessitated by her appointment t the Adult Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. Irene Briggs Woodford was called to the General Board on Februa 19, 1958. She came to this position with a thorough knowledge of Reli Society work and a background of gospel study and continuous service 1 the Church since her conversion in Canada in 1944. During her time of service as a member of the General Board, Sist Woodford has given unstintingly of herself. She has accepted eve assignment willingly and has been meticulous in the performance of ea one. She has served on the theology, social science, poetry, short sto convention, and mission lesson committees. Sister Woodford combines the proselyting spirit of a convert wi the seasoning gained from holding responsible Church positions. Brings to her new and important position both secular and gospel scho ship, coupled with rare judgment and a sweet spirit. The members of the General Board and Relief Society sisters eve where extend to her their appreciation and love and best wishes as $ begins her new Church calling. ERRATUM THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Hi. Dates for the Annual General Relief Society Conference, as announced on page 588 of the Magazine for August 1962, are in error. 'The correct dates are October 3 and 4, 1962, with schedules as follows: 'The General Session will be held on Wednesday, October 3, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It ls suggested that Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards this General Session of the conference to which the general public is mvited. Attendance at the Officers Meeting on Wednesday morning, October 3, from io to 12 in the 'Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, October 4, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, October 3, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. 656 Photograph by Harold M. Lambert The Summit Mabel Jones Gabbott I have reached the summit, and this place Is good; yet I have come too soon, or so It seems. I loved the climb; I loved to race The wind; I loved to flatten new laid snow With quick and eager step; to mount the rocks In conquest of the trail ahead, rough, Perhaps, but always up and new. Walks Now are smoother. Is it enough? The coming up held wonder, and the bend Of wisdom, and surprise, a constant store Of truth, fresh-cut; and challenges to send A mind full forward, to a heart's red core. Why am I so reluctant to descend? All this I have and more — much more. 657 Relvef Society -A Must Jeannene J. Nelson RIP, drip, drip. As Melinda 1) lay in bed, she could hear the familiar drip of the rain as it hit the tin air vent on the roof of their four-room house. Melinda wondered if it rained every day in Southern California, or if she and Les just moved here from Utah in an unusual year. At any rate, the rains came down every Tuesday — Relief Society day. 'To Melinda, the week just wasn't right unless she went to meeting. Relief Society was a must on her list of events. Today was a special day — theology and testimonies. 'The sisters' testimonies established strength for the whole month. And now for the news. "Well, rain or no rain, the clock radio still goes off, and Les still has to go to his teaching position at the engineering college," sighed Melinda as she jumped out of the cozy warm bed to catch the alarm before it went off. She and Les didn't really need to set the radio alarm, because fourmonth-old Bryan usually awakened at six. But then, there was always a chance that he might sleep until seven, and then everyone would be off schedule. Melinda prepared Les' breakfast of grapefruit, cereal, and milk. As usual, little blue-eyed Bryan was wide awake and anxious for his breakfast. 658 six o clock With Les off to school and Bryan back to bed, Melinda _ leisurely washed the breakfast dishes. Another rainy Tuesday, why does it rain on Relief Society day? Thought Melinda, as she watched the rain pour down into the already overflowing street. Because the Tain was coming so fast and hard, Les had driven to school. He usually walked on 'Tuesday. Melinda's thoughts were interrupted by a radio report: "Traffic is congested on Manchester and LaBrea, due to slick roads caused by the heavy rain. Motorists are advised to drive cautiously." "Guess I best forget about going today..." Melinda mused unhappily. As she scurried about the living room straightening the morning newspaper and setting yesterday's sewing in order, another news item came over the radio: "Sixty homes in South Inglewood have now been evacuated because of the flooding waters." Oh, dear, Melinda said to herself, these rains are taking control of everything. We had better stay home for sure. As Melinda was making this final decision, the telephone rang. "Hello. Oh, Sister 'Timothy, how are you this fine rainy morning?" Sister Timothy explained that she RELIEF SOCIETY — A MUST thought the rain had let up some, and she was going to go to Relief Society and take her two little boys. "T'd love to go, but it was raining pretty hard this morning, so Les drove to school. Oh, no, it's too far out of your way for you to come and get us," Melinda protested. Sister Timothy said that she would be over in fifteen minutes. "Come on, Bryan, we've got to hurry. You and your mother are going to Relief Society — rain or no rain." Bryan smiled up at Melinda as if to say, All right, Mom, it's all up to you. "Maybe we should call Daddy first and tell him we won't leave the door open for him when he comes home at noon." Melinda dialed the college number, and Les was called to the phone. "Les, Sister Timothy is going to stop and take us to Relief Society, so we won't leave the door open for you. Do you think it's all right for us to go?" As Melinda hung up the phone, she said to Bryan, "Daddy said to make our own decision. A big lot of help he is!" Bryan just continued to smile up at his mother. ELINDA and Bryan were ready when Sister Timothy pulled up in her white station wagon just outside the door. Melinda opened the door and dashed into the back seat. "Did you ever see so much rain?" Melinda asked. Sister Timothy replied, "I keep thinking that it will quit sometime. I've had the radio on, trying to de- 659 cide which way we should take to get to the chapel." Sister Timothy started out cautiously. The drains weren't taking the waters off very fast, and the streets were filling. "Maybe you should have brought an extra bottle in case we get stalled somewhere along the way," Sister Timothy remarked. "Maybe I should have. Well, we've just got to make it, Relief Society is a must." Melinda surveyed the streets as they progressed. Some of them had water flowing over the sidewalks. Maybe she and Bryan should have stayed home. "We can't go down Inglewood Avenue, look at the stalled cars. We don't want to be among them," Melinda said. "Shh, here's a weather report," Sister Timothy said quietly. "This is a news extra: Cars are stalled on Arbor Vitea and Inglewood. Motorists are advised to take other routes. Please drive carefully." "We can still make it down LaBrea, then," Sister Timothy was saying, as they drove cautiously along. Melinda continued to look down each overflowing street. After what seemed hours to Melinda, she heard Sister Timothy say, "Here we are, and it only took us twenty minutes. Looks like the rains are going to let up, too." Melinda, Bryan, Sister 'Timothy, and her two little boys darted for the chapel entrance. What a beautiful spirit dwelt inside. Every sister was so warm and _ friendly. Every effort was worth it — rain or no rain, they had made it to Relief Society. Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 3 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, makes plans to spend the summer at the family mining claim in Montana, where assessment work is required to hold the property. After a long train trip and a hazardous ride up the mountain, the family arrives at the cabin in the wilderness. ARIAN ran up the dirt path M to the cabin. Sue's voice echoed such fright that Marian momentarily forgot her own fear of the wilderness. As _ she neared, she could hear the children's excited voices mingled with Sue's near hysteria. "What happened? What's the matter?" Marian hurried inside. "A bear, Mommy! A bear!" Baby Jill came running to Marian. "It was a wildcat," 'Tommy "a great big wildcat with." "Oh, Mother, it was a little old muskrat," Jim said. "That's the first time I've seen one so far away from water." "Maybe he was lost," said Jed. "Yes, he was lost," Tommy repeated. Marian felt like sinking in the nearest chair, her knees were so weak. She looked at Sue, who was still standing in a corner with both palms pressed against her cheeks. "Sue, everything's all right now, dear. It's gone." 'He won't come back again, Sue." Jim was quick to defend his wood 660 said, friends. "They don't like to be this far away from the water." "He squeezed outside under that board." Tommy pointed to the floor. "You scared him," Jed said. "Tll bet you did, Sue," Marian said. "He'll surely have something to tell his family about, won't he?" Sue managed a weak smile and relaxed. Marian put her arm around her shoulders. "How about helping me unpack some of these things, honey? We had better start getting something ready to eat." Jim and the twins brought in fresh water from the well and firewood from the shed. "Sure am glad Dad and I cut plenty of wood last fall," Jim said as he put an armful in a box behind the stove. The rest of the day was spent in getting things straightened around. Sue and Marian heated water and washed all the tin plates, cracked china, and black pots and pans they found in the cupboard. Jim got out the two coal-oil lamps, but there was no coal oil. There were four sleeping bags and several blankets on the bedroom shelves. Sue and Marian took the dusty bedding into the yard and shook it well. What I could do with my automatic washer, thought Marian! Jill kept close to Marian's heels, OUT OF THE WILDERNESS and Sue seldom went outside the cabin door, but the four boys were in their glory. Jim took the twins and Tommy to see his favorite haunts, and they gathered wild flowers and small rocks. Marian found a broom with only half a handle, but the more she swept, the dustier the floors seemed. "We'll have to make the beds as best we can until we get our other boxes," Marian told Jim and Sue. "You didn't bring any bedding, did you?" Jim asked. "Only some sheets and pillow cases." "Sheets and pillow cases ina cabin?" Jim smiled. "Mom, we don't need sheets." But Marian's look told him he hadn't better tease... Anyway, he knew she would find out soon enough that there were no pillows. Marian had to admit to herself that the cabin was quite cozy there in the dimming eventide. She looked from one child to the other and smiled to herself. Sue and Jim were just finishing up the dishes. The twins were taking stock of their treasured rock collection, while Tommy and Jill looked on admiringly. Marian found herself quite content, and even a little pleased with the day's accomplishments. UT, as she opened her eyes on Monday morning, Marian felt a hundred years old. All the bending, scrubbing, and trying to clean what would not come clean, had tired her. Even though they had rested on Sunday, the hard bed had made her flesh tender. She yawned and stretched, then her gaze followed the ray of sunlight from the small window across the floor to 661 where it rested in Jill's butter-yellow hair. Jill and Sue were sound asleep. 'They both had smiles playing at the corners of their mouths. Marian couldn't hear a sound from the next room where the boys were bedded down. 'This mountain air and the chores must be good for them, she thought, and she smiled to herself in spite of her aches and pains. The family took turns washing in the tin' basin, then dressed. 'They ate heartily the pancakes Marian made from the packaged mix. And though there was no milk this morning, there was plenty of cold, fresh water and canned fruit. Marian cooked more pancakes to leave for the children while she and Jim went to town. She knew it would take most of the day to go back after the supplies. "Mom, can't we all go?" Sue was nervous about being left alone with the children, and Marian was even more anxious about leaving her. She almost told Jim to stay, too, but she knew she would need him to help her. Somehow, she just didn't feel equal to hiking all the way down to the creek and driving the jeep to town alone. "Sue, if we take all of you, there will be no room for our things," Marian told her. "We'll hurry as fast as we can." "Keep everyone inside the cabin so you won't get lost," advised Jim. "And if you get hungry, open cans of fruit and eat the hot cakes, but don't try to cook anything. You've never built a fire before. T'll cook a good meal when we get back," Marian said, and then, more to herself than aloud, "maybe I had better take the baby." _ suppose.. 662 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 "No, Mother," Jim said, "that would slow us down too much." Marian knew he was right, but it was hard to leave. Finally, after their family prayer, they said goodbye and started down the road. Just before they came to the turn Marian looked back. She could see five little faces framed in the windowpane and her throat squeezed dry. "They will be all nght, Mother," Jim assured her, and with a prayer in her heart, Marian reluctantly followed Jim down the winding trail. VEN before she and Jim could see the creek, Marian heard the men's voices punctuated by blows of their hammers. "You hear that, Jim? You don't.. Oh, it couldn't be fate "They're fixing the bridge!" Jim started running now, and so did Marian. "Pm so glad. I couldn't figure out how we were going to get our things back to the cabin." "Come on, Mom, I'll race you to the creek." Marian stopped as she came around the bend. 'There were a dozen men working with new wood. As she neared Jim, she heard one man say to him, "Oh, so you belong to the jeep. I thought it was Dick Tucker's." "It is. We borrowed it." "The jeep's all right, isn't it?" asked Marian, coming up to them. "Oh, sure, Ma'am. It's all night. We just couldn't figure out how it got here." Marian and Jim told them who they were and what they were doing there. Then one man stepped forward and said, "I'm Jake Hadley, owner of the Silver Bear. We came up Saturday afternoon and found the bridge out, so we got right busy on it." "Tm glad to meet you, Mr. Hadley," Marian said, only she wasn't just right sure she meant that. There was something about his mouth and eyes that disturbed her. "Why don't you just call me Jake? I was a good friend of your husband's. Sure sorry to hear about his accident." "Thank you. Get along." "You and the boy going to do the assessment work?" Jake stepped in front of them. ""That's a big job for a boy and a woman to take on." "T can do it," Jim said. "Dad and I worked together five years. He told me last year what he was going to do this spring." "Well, fine, boy. Say, why don't you let me drive you on to town? It's quite a long way for a lady to drive a jeep." "Thanks, but I don't think...." "Mom can manage just fine," Jim Well, we'd better cut in. "She drove it up here all right." Jake eyed Jim for a minute and then looked at Marian. "T'll be by the mine in a day or two. There must be something I can do to help you out." He stepped aside, and Jim and Marian walked across the finished part of the bridge. 'They got into the jeep with Jake's eyes following them. "You were rude, Jim," Marian said. "T'm sorry, Mother, but I've seen him someplace before and I don't like him." "Tm sure he means no harm, dear," and Marian erased him from OUT OF THE WILDERNESS her mind, in her eagerness to get on about their duties. WHEN Jim and Marian neared the railroad station, Jim yelled, "Oh, boy, Dick's back from Elko. Theére's a station wagon in front!" And as they stopped, Dick came out. "Hello. Dad told me about you. I'm Dick." "Hello," Marian said, and she felt as though she had met an old friend. "Have they finished the bridge? Dad said they came for timber Saturday." "They're nearly finished," Jim said. "I think by the time we get back, they will be." "T don't know how to thank you for the loan of the jeep," Marian said. "Then don't try." Dick smiled. "I was sorry I wasn't here to drive you." They went into the station and began to load their things in the station wagon. It didn't take them long, and after a trip to the store in town, they were ready to start back up the canyon. Marian's thoughts were miles ahead of the car. It seemed to be going much too slowly. She was increasingly anxious to get back to Sue and the children. When they got to the bridge, the men were still working. Marian's heart sank. What if it isn't finished enough for a car to go over? She thought, or what im "Hi." Jake came over to them. "Well, we got the bridge about done. Just the handrail left. Hello, Dick." "Hello, Jake. Looks like a good 663 job. Not a bit too soon, either, look at the clouds overhead." Marian looked. She had been so worried about getting back to the cabin she hadn't noticed them — black and threatening. "Yes," Jake was saying, "looks like we'll be in for a good one." ARIAN'S mind raced to the children just as the first flash of lightning split the air and made a path for the downpour of rain. The men ran for cover, and Dick started the car and drove it across the bridge. The raindrops were bigger than any Marian had ever remembered, and the sky was dark. Sue will be petrified, Marian thought, and she leaned forward, as though that would help the car along the muddy road. Oh, why did I leave them? I should have at least let Jim stay, too. He would have known what to do to comfort them. What if they became frightened and tried to come after us? What if some kind of an animal tried to get in the cabin out of the rain? In the short mile from the creek, Marian had a thousand nightmares. Then as they rounded the bend, the nightmare became reality, for as the headlights picked out the cabin, they could see black clouds of smoke billowing skyward. Even in the semi-darkness, they could see the smoke come rolling out from the space beneath the door, and from the cracks around the windows. "The cabin.... It's on fire!" Marian hardly waited for the car to stop before she was out and running up the path. "Mother, come back!" Jim yelled. Dick and Jim got out of the car 664 and ran past her. Just as they reached the door, it opened and the children came out, coughing and rubbing their eyes. "Oh, Sue, what in the world?" Marian began. "We tried to build a fire to." Jim grabbed a bucket and headed for the well. "How can we put the fire out? The cabin will burn to the ground!" Marian's voice was asking... Pleading. "The cabin's not on fire," Sue told her. "Tt's just the stove," said Jed. "Tt's just smoking," Ted added. "My eyes hurt," 'Tommy cried. "The cabin's not on fire?" "No, the stove is just smoking," Jed repeated. "The damper," said Dick, "I'll bet they forgot about the damper." He went inside, and Marian gathered the five children close to her. "Oh, Sue, I told you not to build a fire." "You said not to cook anything," corrected Sue. "And we didn't," said Ted. "We had to dry out the blankets," explained Jed. "Yes, they're all wet," said 'Tommy. Marian felt a little bewildered. She didn't quite grasp what was going on. "How did the blankets get wet?" "Tt's raining," said Jill "Even in the cabin," said 'Tommy. ICK came back. "It was the damper. See, the smoke's going out the chimney now." Jim came in with the bucket of water. Marian couldn't help but smile, he looked so funny carrying a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 little bucket of water to put out a fire. "We don't need that, honey. It was only the damper." "Mommy, what's a damper?" Jill wanted to know. "Come inside and I'll show you. Then I'll cook something to eat." "All the pans are on the floor," Jed said. "Tm hungry," said Jill. "The beds are wet, too," Tommy told Marian. "Oh, dear " Marian groaned. "We didn't notice at first," said Sue, "but as soon as we did, we put pans around to catch the rain." "And we hung the blankets over the chairs," 'T'ed said. "Then we built a fire to dry them," explained Jed. "What's the matter, Mom?" Jim asked, coming in with a big box from the car. "Oh, everything's drenched! Just look! It will take days to dry things out." "Dad and I tried to put the tar paper on the roof before we left last fall, but we didn't get a chance to." Jim's voice faltered just a little, and Marian knew he was missing his father. "Roof leaking?" asked Dick, coming in. "Yes," said Marian. "I'm sure glad Mr. Hadley is coming over in a few days. I'll ask him to put the tar paper on for us." "No, Mom. I can do it." Jim was emphatic. "But he offered, and it really is a man's job." "Jim's right, Mrs. Morgan. If he can do it, it would be better. That Jake Hadley's a no-good character. I would come up and help you my- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS self, but I'm behind with my spring planting." "Jake will be over in a day or two." "T know, but he's not one to offer to do anything without strings attached. If he made an offer to help you, you can bet there's something behind it." The rain stopped, and the sun was making an attempt to brighten things up before it went behind the mountains. Marian's thoughts were still dampened, though. She hated the cabin more than ever. She looked around her. Dick and her family were chatting and eating, but she could not join in. She kept turning the wet bedding and thinking about the dismal cabin and about Jake Hadley. Her first impression of him was right, she knew, but she didn't know why it would 665 hurt to let him help if he wanted to. She thought of Charles. He had said she needed someone. She knew she did, even if it were only to help fix the roof. But she remembered Jake's eyes and knew he wasn't the one to turn to. What could he want, Marian wondered?.. How could he harm me? 'Then she finally told herself that he was just trying to be nice. I'm sure he won't even come around, she said to herself. But she was wrong. The very next morning, as she looked up from the well, she saw him coming towards her. Her throat felt suddenly dry, and she almost dropped the bucket. "Howdy, Mrs. Morgan,' Jake Hadley said. "Here, let me carry in that water for you." (To be continued ) Belle W. Anderson I chose a lovely, summer rose, To place within my verse, Although I worked with earnest care, My lines were harsh, perverse. I knew the thrill of sunset's glow, In radiance-sublime, The colors would not blend or flow, The pulse was out of time. I listened to a singing bird, And in its sweet refrain, I caught the fragrance of a rose, The sunset's coral flame. DOR GARDEN Plants create magic and augment scanty furnishings' with their luxurious growth. They provide unsurpassed decoration for any place in a room, any period of furnishings, and any type of architecture. With the colorful flowering varieties, the exotic tropical types, and the familiar favorites, the choice of plants to furnish a home is unlimited. Green foliage plants and planters not only add living beauty to a home, they are an integral part of a room's decor. Planters made of a variety of plants complement the architecture and furnishings. They should be chosen to suit the mood of a room as well as for suitable size, form, and color. Windows of all kinds hay, nic: ture, small panel, colonial, and, th everyday standard window wit hb radiator beneath, are enhanced green foliage plants. | Place your plants with a definite purpose. More and more decorators are using green plants and planters as important decorative elements in furnishing a room. They choose big plants to punctuate a focal point or camouflage an architectural defect. To do this, they plan the placement of plants as carefully as furniture and accessories. 'They select plants in proper scale to the room and location within the room. 'They group them impressively to gain a dramatic effect that is utterly impossible when single plants are scattered about in a helter-skelter fashion. What is new today in green plants is the exciting varieties available. There are tall towering plants, as well as low compact ones. 'There are leaves that are large, small, smooth, crinkled, and in various shades of green. Allow spaces for planters, keeping in mind the new "Fretwork Look" in plastic and cement that forms a beautiful background. Often the curious corners or unused nooks in a room can be used for planting areas and bring interest into the room. Depending on the size and the style of the particular room, its color, the space available, you will consider whether you want to mass a number of plants in one impressive strategic location that makes it a focus of interest. Think, too, in terms of scale, a big expanse of plain wall demands a plant or a group of plants of generous dimensions. But, if you have a small area to decorate, chose one of harmonious proportions. Often we can reinforce our green planters or planting areas with colorful blooming plants, such as a chrysanthemum or a group of chrysanthemum plants — red tulips in the spring of the year or Easter lilies around Easter time and Poinsettia plants around Christmas time. We must always keep in mind color harmony — blending or co-ordinating with walls, draperies, rugs, and other ACCESSOTIES. (THE mass effect of a handsome group of plants satisfies a universal love of the spectacular. Any one plant in the group may be attractive in its own night, though it is possible it can 668 be overlooked alone. But put several together in the right setting, and you just can't ignore their presence. We should always choose contrasts of color, textures, and form in our green mass planting areas — unless we are trying to achieve a more formal look 'Then it is better to use one type, one shade, and one variety of plant. Plants can be part of a room divider where they are part of a substitute wall that separates space. A floor-level planter acts as a good room divider and can be built very easily, keeping in mind that it must have a metal liner. Here, again, use larger and _ huskier green plants, such as Sansevierias, Philodendrons, and rubber plants. A series of open shelves in simple bookcase style may carry a collection RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 of ivies and African violets, remembering if all the light comes from one side, plants must be turned regularly, so their growth will be even. Philodendron poles and Dieffenbachia in a brick planter which is an extension of a fireplace wall, soften the lines and will improve the effect of a room divider. Many architects very often include sunken floor areas in their blueprints, knowing the charm which indoor gardens add to a spacious room. Many beautiful occasional tables have built-in planters, and the variety of circular, tiered, and hanging planters is endless. The bird-cage planter, with graceful trailers of ivy, is a smart accent note for any room. A tiered wire planter has a trick to offer in planting and is an eye-catcher. It can hang gracefully from a beam, causing much excitement and interest. Exposed windows are a wonderful place for planting areas. Ivies and Philodendrons on sills or makeshift shelving or, again, the large pot of ivy hanging from the ceiling to eye level is a dramatic note, or three different pots of ivy hanging at different elevations create interest. Indoor gardens of ivies, Philodendrons, Dieffenbachia, Chinese evergreen, and watermelon pepperonia can be placed together attractively in one area. LANTERS of various kinds divide kitchen and living areas in many of our ranch style homes. The brick walls and massive fireplaces of some contemporary homes are softened with massed green plantings and trailing ivies and vines. THE MAGIC OF INDOOR GARDENING Houses built on an "open plan," often include planters — dividers — as a basic design element. We must keep in mind always, though, that because these plants have such prominence, care must be given to develop healthy, glossy plants. Today the use of bamboo curtains is popular and can be exotic with the use of greenery, such as a giant schefflera or a Philodendron. The ceiling-to-floor pole that holds pots of greenery lends itself well for a "look through" room divider or an excellent corner interest. We should remember that small plants look better on smaller tables and in small areas and large ones are more appropriate in more spacious areas. Pothos and variegated pepperonia are interesting to look down into placed in a low tripod with a potbelly container. If your planter has no bottom drainage hole, be sure to put in a good layer of pebbles or broken crockery before you set plants in place. This allows good area circulation and drainage. Referring back to the reinforcements of blooming plants in green planting areas, if you like the dramatic emphasis that a living plant in bloom gives to a decorating scheme, plan ahead for it. You can buy beautiful seasonal plants from your florist, always choosing plants in bud, so that you will have the pleasure of watching them swell and open. Remember always that a blooming plant requires more moisture. 670 FRICAN violet groupings are worth a try and can be planted in a wire basket lined in moistureholding moss. 'The wire basket always should be set on a ceramic tray to hold moisture and prevent table staining. A group of African violets of one color is most striking. This is a beautiful way to display all those extra young plants that are so easy to grow from leaves. Choose dish gardens of assorted green: plants when the room area is small and doesn't afford larger planting facilities. 'These can be planted in attractive copper, brass, or ceramic bowls. 'These dish gardens are long lasting and lush and instant room decorators! Well-placed plants and flowers always contribute greatly to the natural charm and distinction of a home. But we cannot suggest too strongly that September is the time to select most of your green plants for the winter months. Coming as they do from moist and humid greenhouses, plants need to become accustomed gradually to the atmospheric changes which occur in the average home as winter nears and home heating increases. So, as we prepare for the fall months, we should make our homes most enjoyable and cheerful with beautiful plants. To hold their proper place in decoration, plants must be healthy and beautiful. 'Too often we hear, "T don't know what happens to all my plants. I water them regularly." The secret is that plants need more than water, and different plants require varying amounts of water at different times. 'Too much water can be more harmful than too little. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Plants need fresh air, but require protection from chilling drafts. They need light, extra food for the soil, moisture in the air, and regular baths. Most plants need a weekly bath. Often it is well to cover the soil with a metallic paper to prevent oversoaking, then turn plants on side while giving them a fine mist spray. 'They also need to be kept free of insects and pests, and there are many indoor plant -sprays available on the market. Some plants yearn for hours of sunshine, while other plants want light, but not direct sun. In many homes we can see where plants grow toward fluorescent lighting, and sometimes under the presence of an infrared light. So we see plants thrive under properly controlled natural and artificial heat. OST plants abhor dry heat and every effort should be made to give plants the best circulation of air and the right amount of moisture and water. Each plant's needs should be carefully considered before giving it a place to live indoors. An important point to remember about watering is that it should be done regularly. A plant is just as sensitive to the timing for a drink of water as an animal, bird, or even a human being. When it is watered one day and forgotten the next two or three days or even a week, immediately its beauty and growth are destroyed. 'The beauty and vigor have been taken out of the leaves of the plant. Generally speaking, watering should be somewhat reduced during the winter months from October to March. In the winter months let THE MAGIC OF INDOOR GARDENING the water stand until the chill is out of it before giving it to the plants. The challenge of keeping plants beautiful becomes an exciting one and success brings the reward of beauty. Smooth-leafed plants need all surfaces cleansed and refreshed with a damp cloth at least once a month. Never use oil to make leaves glisten, for oil prevents foliage from breathing. The soil needs extra food from time to time, at least once a month. Always read and follow directions on the various commercial fertilizers. It might be well to check with your florist regarding this matter of how much and how often to use. Fer- 671 earth in the pot from becoming moldy or sour. To all who delight in the daily presence of green and growing plants and indoor gardening, remember that it is never out of season and helps to keep memories of spring and summer alive — no matter what the calendar may say or how the cold winds blow. Add pleasure to your daily life by | enjoying an "Indoor Garden." tilizers can be obtained in liquid, "4 powder, and pill form, however, liquid food has been found to reach the root system quicker and produces outstanding results. It is well to water plants before applying fertilizer. It is necessary to have a rich mixture of soil, using a heavy field base mixed with some loam and sharp sand, about one quarter sand. You may make your own soil mixture or buy it commercially prepared, just be sure it is moist when using, not dry, not wet. Tender roots suffer least damage in moist soil. A good hint is to keep a little bit of good soil from the garden in a plastic bag to have on hand when added soil is needed for the planting area. In planting large areas it is better to leave plants in their pots, then individual watering can be given them according to their needs. Remember, good drainage prevents the Linnie F. Robinson 2 envelopes yeast powder 2 c. Whole-wheat flour 1 c. Slightly warm water 7 ¢c. White flour 2 tbsp. Sugar 4 tsp. Baking powder 1 cooked, mashed, medium-sized potato 4 tsp. Salt 2 c. Milk 2 c. Slightly warm water 1% squares butter or shortening 2 eggs, beaten 1 C, sugar Dissolve yeast powder and 2 tbsp. Sugar in one cup slightly warm water. When active, add the mashed potato. Scald the milk, add butter and one cup of sugar and set aside to cool. Combine flour, baking powder, and salt. When the milk mixture is cool, stir in the yeast mixture and the beaten eggs, and add enough flour to make a batter. Let rise until light. For mixing the dough, a plastic pan and a wooden spoon will facilitate the process. Add alternately the two cups of slightly warm water and the remainder of the flour mixture, stirring well and folding in the flour. If the dough seems too sticky, push it to one side of the pan with the mixing spoon and add some of the water to the bottom of the pan. If it is desired to knead the dough with the hands, wetting the hands in some of the water will make the mixing easier. A soft dough will make the lightest rolls and bread. After the dough is mixed, cover it and let rise at kitchen temperature. When dough is double in bulk, mix it down and let it rise again. Then scrape dough out of mixing bowl onto a floured board and roll out to desired thickness. Cut into circles with a glass or can. Dip circles in melted shortening and fold together, pinching the edges. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. This recipe makes about 75 rolls, depending on the size. In Bu 1 medium-sized cooked, mashed potato 2 c. Milk 1 ¢. Water 1% squares butter or shortening 2 envelopes yeast powder 1% c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Sugar 3% tsp. Salt 2 eggs, beaten 4 tsp. Baking powder 1 ¢. Raisins cooked plump Use same mixing method as for whole-wheat rolls. This recipe makes good cinnaman rolls and orange rolls. (This recipe also makes good white rolls by decreasing the sugar to one cup and leaving out the raisins. ) scones 2 c. Flour | "2 ¢. Shortening 4 tsp. Baking powder 5 tbsp. Light cream or —— milk "2 tsp. Salt 2 eggs (reserve some white) 3 tbsp. Sugar Stir flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar together. Cut or beat eggs into shortening. Add light cream and mix with flour mixture. Roll out on floured board lightly 672 BAKING DAY AT HOME 673 and cut in about 3" squares. Then cut the squares into triangles. Brush with a bit of egg white saved from the eggs. Sprinkle with sugar and bake at 400° oven for about 10 minutes. Serve immediately. Orange Filling for Rol 6 medium-size oranges cut in pieces 1 c. Granulated sugar 2 tsp. Grated orange rind 3 or 4 tbsp. Soft butter Peel and cut oranges and combine with grated rind and sugar. Cook until a heavy syrup forms. Roll out dough and spread with melted butter and with the orange mixture which has been cooled. Roll up like a cinnamon roll and slice. Bake at 400° about 20 minutes. Makes filling for about 30 to 4o rolls, depending on how thick you spread it. Cinnamon R Jl Elling 2 tsp. Cinnamon % ¢. Softened butter 22 c. Brown sugar 1 c. Seeded raisins cooked plump Roll out dough on board and spread with softened butter. Then sprinkle with brown sugar, cinnamon, and raisins. Roll up and slice % inch thick. Let the rolls double their bulk and bake at 400° for about 12 to 15 minutes. Both of the above rolls are better when iced. I also ice the plain raisin rolls. Agnes Just Reid I called the roll in my garden This bright September day. Most everyone was present, Flaunting his colors gay. Golden glow, dahlia, pansy, "Mum," Delphinium, "glad," Morning glory, petunia, The best we had ever had. Alyssum, low and thrifty, Poppies so bright, so gold, African daisies, roses Blooming in spite of the cold. I gave them a hearty greeting, But my throat was strangely dry, I hope they didn't know it — But I also said goodbye. It is never too early for making gifts cum. Any season is gift-making time, and the wise and provident homemaker considers the convenience and joy which come to her and to her loved ones when appropriate gifts are on hand for birthdays, Christmas, and other special occasions. Have you ever stopped to think how many gifts and home decorations you can actually make with very little expense? You do not need an idea so fresh and original that no one else has ever heard of it. Use a basic idea and add unique touches, making the details of color and trimming a little different. Soon you will see how a pattern can be changed to become your original handiwork. Here are some suggestions for attractive and lovable gifts for children. Finger Puppets Puppets are for sale in many shops, but not like the ones I shall instruct you to make. Flere personal touches are added to a basic idea, and we come up with something the children will love. To make them you will need baby socks, felt, cotton, sequins, upholstery fringe, yarn, needle, and thread. You need only two basic head patterns to make the following finger puppets. The round head makes a rabbit, clown, Santa Claus, snow man, and as many more as you can think up. The profile head makes a dog, donkey, sheep, and many more animals, just by changing the ears. Look in children's color books for ideas, also ear patterns. 674 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Use the foot of a white sock, cutting the heel part off. Stuff the entire foot with cotton. Now, take a piece of yarn and tie tightly around the sock, allowing more for the body part than you do for the head. You will find the head part is round as it should be. With needle and thread, sew sock together at place where you cut off heel. This is where the feet of your doll will go. Take the foot pattern and place on green felt. Cut two pieces and sew them together on machine. Now, secure these feet to bottom of doll by tacking carefully. The clown's cap is made from a corner of a square piece of felt. The tassel is red and this is a small ball from upholstery fringe. Use a ruffle of red net for cap brim. With needle and thread, secure to head of doll. Use a larger ruffle of net around throat of doll, and three balls from red fringe down the front. The clown's face is decorated with small pieces of felt and sequins. These dolls have no arms. To make them you will need men's socks, large and small sequins, small squares of felt, yarn, and upholstery fringe. You will need bits of net for decorating the clown. There are dozens of clever ideas for making these dolls. Some of them are cute with words stitched on saying different things. One might say, "Love me," another might say, "I'm sweet." These letters are cut out of felt and stitched on with sequin beads. You might make 'Merry Christmas" dolls and let them sit about your living room to add that novelty touch when decorating the home for Christmas. IT IS NEVER TOO EARLY FOR MAKING GIFTS 67? To make a Santa Claus, use red socks and pink felt head. The cap is made of ted felt with a white ball from upholstery fringe for tassel. Place white strip of felt around bottom of cap. The whiskers are made of cotton or white felt. Sequins are used for eyes; beads are used for the mouth. CUT TWO LARGE PIECES SOCK NOVELTY DOLL FEET Enlarge the pattern as needed, for horses of various sizes. The horse might stand about seven inches high at top of head; thé length might be about nine inches for this height. These are easy to make and are good for quick sales at the Church bazaar. They are made out of felt, sewed on the machine, but not turned. To make them you should cut two large pieces and two smaller pieces. The smaller pattern is the lower part of the pony. First, sew the pony together, leaving a small opening down the middle of stomach for kapoc or cotton stuffing. Be sure to stuff the horse well, so it can stand when placed on a table. When this is completed, pull stomach together and stitch well with needle and thread. Cut ears from felt and stitch into position on head. Make a mane out of yarn for neck of pony, also a long, full tail, Cut a saddle from a different color felt and stitch on with sequins or rickrack. The eyes are sequins and the bridle is made of gold cording, rickrack, or whatever you desire. Hand to the Plow Part V — WeEsTWARD ONCE More Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, awaiting a train to take them westward, was faced with a momentous decision. Her father and mother and several of her brothers and sisters, not members of the Church, had already established themselves in Bradys Bend, Pennsylvania, only about twenty-five miles from the railroad. 'The widow and her family had long planned to visit them before traveling to the West to make a permanent home. However, the fear that, once reunited with her family, she might lack the courage to leave them, causes the widow to resume her journey West. F the silence of dedication en- | cased this Welsh unit trying to become something they had long dreamed of, that same quietude did not touch the rest of the travelers. Louder and louder became the buzzing in the hive station. As the voices shrilled, the bodies started on the move. The emigrant, now that victory was so sweet, found herself too tired to drag herself and young brood back to reality. She motioned to the older boys to see what all the noise was about. They were happy to arise and walk about and stretch and talk aloud. They looked as relieved as she to have met the enemy and to have conquered. 'They began to hum a little tune together as they 678 sauntered about, which was most Welsh of them. The song was "Men of Harlech," an appropriate enough legendary air that told families afar off that one had been vallant. The boys circulated back, in due time, to report that any time now a train would be coming down the tracks going in their general direction. How did they know that?_ Well, some boys had been stooping with their ears on the rails. As they had listened often in such a posture for several weeks now, they were experts in telling even the exact time the train would clang to a shuddering stop at the station. Long since they had mastered the direction from which it would come. Before the waiting families could move their property to the platform as preparation for getting aboard, the whistle was heard to warn them forlornly, as it lamented its way along the narrow tracks. The previously well-ordered and undisturbed piles of boxes and bags were now shunted to the door. Almost no family needed to make two trips to carry all they owned from inside to outside. Each member took his share, deposited it, and stood guard. Just so as in the case of the emigrant's possessions, each HAND TO THE PLOW child bent to and lugged at his previously assigned bundles, ran arms through straps, hoisted great bulks upon shoulders, and staggered under untold weight. With bent backs and flexed muscles, they directed their paths over the timeworn doorsill and to the outer corner of the platform near the down end. This was a prearranged formation which worked as a clock. Showing pleasure, each child laid his burden in such a manner that in the blinking of an eye the whole lot of belongings was in exactly the same position and form as had been seen but a moment ago near the forge stove inside the station. Actually, the children loved these moments of lifting and carrying and _ heaving. They smiled and talked and played the game in great spirits. The mother had her share of possibles, too: smaller bags and baskets, to be sure; but their value was not quite in the class of those carried by her offspring. We may hear more about their contents at a less hurried moment. HE islands of valuables about the outer station were not of permanent value, however. As soon as the train chugged into sight the surge to deposit these material objects within the box-like cars began. The little islands dissolved and became a part of small streams flowing into the cars. The ticket agent came to the door to see them off. Well, he thought, there they go. Guess I should have told that Welsh lady more about the war and the Indians and the great rivers. She really should have gone to Bradys Bend. It would be safer 679 there, even from the war. Guess she'll have her own way like as not. Well, it won't be anything like Wales. Maybe she won't live to get West. Maybe she will never be heard from again. Well, I told her so, didn't I? As this was the third train the family had boarded since leaving their ship, the novelty of the travel was lost. It was just as noisy, just as dirty, as drafty, as inadequate to transport human beings, as crowded, as any other they had ridden in before. The little family had decided that they would have more privacy if they could stay at the end of a car, so they made their way where they could have at least one end wall to enclose them. They shunted their luggage under the seats, all that would fit there, then piled the rest in tower-like arrangement with the hope that the jarring of starts and stops would not dislodge the bundles upon their heads. The aisle through this little conveyance was so narrow that one was forced to sidestep through it. The seats were twin benched, facing each other — exact copies of church benches. Neither springs nor cushions were thought to be an adjunct to comfort. A _ solitary, swaying lantern of a make to accommodate either a candle or a cup of oil gave the only light after nightfall. The windows of the car were small, dirty, rattletrap squares, giving a distorted vision of the outside world. It did not pay to take too seriously a view that bulged and squeezed itself into an oddity of nature. Just move the head a bit and another effect could be achieved. If one 680 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 was sensitive to light and color, this, with distortion, brought on car sickness. The prevention was never to look outside. The family noticed all too late that they should have been on the opposite side of the car, for some carpenter-skilled passenger had, at a lengthy stop, built himself a sort of platform or bunk midway between seat and ceiling. 'This was now being occupied by numerous children who climbed aloft and sat there looking quite like chickens on a perch. When their parents threw them a blanket and a bundle or two to be used as pillows, they had a sleeper the whole traveling world could envy. HE emigrant's oldest boy resolved to build such a second story in their little nook. If the train didn't get under way immedlately, he knew just the pile of lumber back at the station which could afford him his supply. A hammer and nails could be _ borrowed from the agent. He therefore left his family corner and struggled past the still embarking passengers and finally regained the platform. He ran to the agent to explain his plan, but was forced to about face as word was wafted back with the ribbon of black smoke that the engine was ready to move. He dashed back to the car with his plan of construction still taking form. This was an objective which could be realized at the next stop, if not now. He was scarcely seated in the family pew, as they laughingly called their cramped quarters, when a continuous ringing of a bell was heard as one of the many official signals that the train was about to roll. Other signs, either in noise or motion, quickly followed. The agent now took the part of starter of the rolling stock of his company and his self-importance had its greatest chance to renew itself. He filled his lungs, braced himself with thumbs in the armholes of his vest, opened his mouth and put forth a roar of command. His call was made of a series of words, all unintelligible, and seeming to lack an interpreter. He no doubt was the pattern for future masters of the art of train calling. But with or without his vehemence, the effect would have been the same. The passengers had received a call to go West long before he was an employee of any transportation system. The impetus was to move onward. 'The going was accelerated with each mile en route and showed no signs of running down as does a penduJum or a ball thrown in motion. Let us give the agent credit for at least being the color and essence of a very new mode of getting about the earth. Evidently every nose was counted, every owner surrounded by. His worldly goods. Evidently nothing now could mar the journey which up to this time had been eventful and hazardous. The rumble of the wheels became as a sedative. The air became sickening. It would take more than the cracks beneath the doors and around the windows to ventilate the place. No wonder a broken window or two had not been replaced. Even cinders sweeping through them to the hair and lungs of the passengers were preferable to this close feeling. Someone mentioned that, at almost any place along the line, the HAND TO THE PLOW Rebel forces might commandeer the train and take it off to transport troops, or more likely, the Union soldiers would get there first and do the same thing for their cause. This rail company maintained that it was neutral in the great fight, and hoped thereby to preserve its regular business no matter how the wind blew in the conflict. Actually, it was at a constant disadvantage. Uncertainty was ever present. Unless something like decisive victory could be achieved quickly, the owners feared for their investment. HE striving engine hammered its way, and panted and spewed clouds of volcanic fire over its back in the best manner of dreadful dragons. The writhing, twisting motion of the cars never ceased. The couplings threatened to let go the precarious hold they had been designed to maintain, and with slackened or gathered speed, the antagonism between the parts of the whole continued. This multiple-sectioned monster remained a unit only because the teeth of one part tore at the tail of the next. Heads bobbed, jerked, snapped, and rolled. Heavy Shoulders slumped, short legs dangled in jointless fashion, and whimperers were heard to complain and wheedle and threaten. In this atmosphere it was an achievement for any mother to gain the ear of an infant either to issue commands or to enjoin to prayer. It was easy, then, to drift off on a memory jaunt, which in most cases made one homesick, or to recede within oneself to renew covenants or formulate stratagems. The emigrant indulged in a little of both, and got to the point of feeling a 681 re-enforcement of courage and energy now that they were underway again, when she was interrupted by little Sannie demanding, "I want something!" The boys broke into a laugh at this most childish of all sentences. At least they always knew what it was they wanted. The mother brushed aside her thoughts in solitude and tried to lead the little girl into a statement of just what it was she wanted. A sea cake? No. A part of a peeled potato? No. Nothing to eat? No. A little sleep with head resting on the mother's lap or shoulders? No. A story? Yes, that was it. About nice, wonderful Uncle David who could sing better than anyone else in all Wales? Yes, yes. This subject was an_ unfailing source of entertainment even to children who could sing all day long and never repeat themselves, for Uncle David was very romantic as well as talented. Of course it was a sort of sad, mysterious romance. In the first place. But no one wanted that phase of Uncle David today. As there were other choices, one boy called out, "The money story." Yes, indeed. This event involved a piece of money which could not have purchased even the meanest item of food or clothing, yet, again, it was worth a bucketful of other near-alike pieces. The source of this valued bit of metal reached back to legendary times in Wales when singing first became the greatest of arts. Mothers prayed that the newly christened infant would be the most famous singer in all Wales. No other career beckoned or mattered to a Welshman 682 after that idea had taken hold in the national heart. For it was the heart of Wales that sang. Its heartbeat was set to music, its eye only focused on the hills and vales of its country to conjure up melodies of praise to God for their land and people. Other peoples trained their children in the arts and sciences, still others valued the efforts of the printed page or held physical prowess as a fetish. But Welshmen sang and lived for song. All else, one might RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 say, interfered with singing. Labor in the mines for eighteen hours a day, at the wharves, in the fruitless valleys, the tragedies of deep shaft cave-ins — all fell behind one as the wake of a ship — all joy and sorrow, the sweat of the brow, the closing of the grave, the birth of sons and daughters, the courage — all were expressed in that minor key of melody which is not a dirge but an eternal hope over the strangeness of life and love and labor. (To be concluded) 7 OAS front en ' FS ~, # x z 2 ae oe x: oe " Ls E, h Bertha A. Kleinman "he a $0 fashioned 'ne » thie thunder, shock, and blast; hi me - — the. Evening star SY promise after strife, nat the gates ajar, ae FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. Cal General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Ensign Stake (Utah), Ensign Fourth Ward Retief Society Presents Anniversary Program "Reflections," March 14, 1962 Front row, left to right: Catherine H. Thompson; Margaret Tingey, as Mary Magdalene; Fern Clissold, as Esther; Grace Ovard, as Anna; Erma Hinckley, as Eve; Lois Sorenson, as Elizabeth; Geraldine Ballard, as Emma Smith; Elma Bradshaw. Back row, left to right: Connie Fuller, as Salome; Winona Jensen, as Hagar; Darlene Butler, as Ruth; Esther Snow, as Eliza R. Snow; Wanda Pedersen, as Lot's wife; Eunice McGinnis, as Mary; Arlene Kirton, as Miriam; Gwen Shurtleff, as Sariah; Sybil Noall, as Deborah; Ruth Cunningham, as Delilah. Standing, rear, center, Lucy T. Anderson, President, Ensign Stake Relief Society. Sister Anderson reports: "'An original birthday party program 'Reflection,' honoring all womankind, with special emphasis on our Latter-day Saint Relief Society leaders, was presented March 14, 1962. An imposing gilt mirror reflected the images of outstanding women from the past, while the spoken description was accompanied by appropriate organ background music. An outstanding organ-piano duet, a vocal solo, and a song by a trio of young mothers completed the program. Immediately following the program, was a special birthday luncheon prepared by a committee of visiting teachers under the direction of Norma Rees." 683 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 685 Provo Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Former Presidents At Leadership Meeting, March 16, 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Virginia B. Keeler, Hazel K. Petersen, and Mary Day, present presidency; Mary Hatch, who served as a counselor to two presidents. Back row, standing left to right: Pearl Snarr; Hannah Oldroyd; Rozella Callard; Tess Brienholt; Orah Van Wagner; Mabel Kirk. Hazel K. Petersen, President, Provo Stake Relief Society, reports: "Provo Stake Relief Society was organized in February 1939, under the direction of President Charles E. Rowan, Jr., who was present at this special program commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. Inez Allred, deceased, was the first president, and her counselors were Clara Warnick, deceased; Hannah Oldroyd, and Pearl Snarr. The second presidency members were: Greta Romney, president, who was unable to be present when this picture was taken, with Mary Hatch and Naiomi Robertson, as counselors. The third presidency consisted of: Mazie Knell, president, deceased, with Mary Hatch and Veda Williams, not in the picture, and Rozella Collard, as counselors. The fourth presidency consisted of: Orah Van Wagner, president, with Mabel Kirk, Tess Brienholt, Vivian Lambert, now residing in California, and Hazel K. Petersen as counselors. "Each presidency was introduced and responded with a narration of outstanding events that took place during their service. 'The anniversary observance was a lovely stake affair, and the program was very inspiring. Beautiful musical numbers were presented by the Singing Mothers, directed by Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. We were especially honored to have with us Stake President Dean C. Christensen, and Alice L. Wilkinson and Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society." Sugar House Stake (Utah), Marlborough Ward Presents Unique Anniversary Program, March 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Vera Hoggan; Berniece Cox; Mabel Bergman. Second row, seated, left to right: LaVerne Milne, Second Counselor; Margaret Wonnacott, President; Lela Wright, First Counselor; Maxine Knoble, Secretary; Ina Hatch, narrator. Standing, left to nght: Gertrude Lobrot; Erma Berg; Elsie Parry; Selma Coleman; Rosette Graham; Berniece Anderson; Lucile Laxman; Nellie Purrington; Anna Milius; Edna Stephens. Anne Done, Ziska Waters, and Anna Frewin were not present when the picture was taken. Ruth B. Kimball, President, Sugar House Stake Relief Society, reports: '* 'Many Happy Returns of the Day,' a spiritual playlet, combined with narration and music, cleverly bridged the time from prior to the organization of the Relief Society, up to the present day. Phases depicting organization, music, teaching, service, visiting teaching, testimony, and motherhood showed how, from a small beginning in a room over he Prophet's store, the Relief Society now encircles the world. Those sisters who Tepresented the early women of the organization were fittingly costumed." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 rere ny Ba mere ot NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Moroni Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, seated, left to right: Rita Allred, accompanist; LuJane Cook, chorister; Bessie Cook, Counselor; Euleda B. Cook, President, Monroe Stake Relief Society; Izola Blackham, Counselor; Verdeen Jacobson, Secretary; Venice Anderson, former president. Sister Cook reports: 'This chorus includes members from all five wards of our stake and has held regular practice periods for more than a year. We were honored to have our annual stake excursion to the Manti Temple on March 17, 1961. At this time our stake Singing Mothers chorus sang in the temple. On August 27, 1961, the chorus sang for both sessions of stake quarterly conference. Santa Monica Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention, April 13, 1962 Front row, seated, left to right: Evelyn Bluth, Second Counselor; Audra E. Emfield, President; Geneve A. Cannon, First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Jane Jamison; Helen Wilkinson; Lydia Jenson; Dorothy Jensen; Marybeth Bone; Vinnie Veth; Nellie Stevenson. Sister Emfield reports: "The Santa Monica Stake Visiting Teacher Convention and luncheon was held April 13, 1962. Special guests were the Stake President and Sister E. Garrett Barlow, and former stake Relief Society president Elva Cusworth and Brother Cusworth. We honored the ward Magazine representatives for attaining the Magazine honor roll, with a little gift presented by Helen Wilkinson, stake Magazine representative. There were two skits given. 'The first was 'Streamlining the Relief Society,' directed by Lydia Jenson, stake visiting teacher message leader, and the second - 'Builders of the Kingdom,' directed by Nellie Stevenson, stake theology class eader. "A lovely luncheon was then served to 350 visiting teachers. The tables were decorated by Jane Jamison with red ivy geraniums and many antique pieces, such as curling irons, oil lamps, stiff collar boxes, and other items. This opened the way for much fun and conversation, such as 'I remember when....' "Emaline Bluth, Work Director Counselor, and Helen Berger, from Santa Monica First Ward, had gathered from the wards and arranged on display a wonderful collection of 'Creative Art in the American Home.' Part of our Relief Society heritage is the reviving of The American Arts, the remembrance of things past and the traditions made mellow over the years." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 and Luncheon irc ¢ Wel 7 Emily E. Burr, President, Sacramento Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 27, 1962, the Sacramento Stake Relief Society held a luncheon and social honoring all of the sisters in the stake over seventy years of age, of which we have ninety-five. There were forty-nine sisters in attendance, and three of them were eighty-nine years of age. The tables were beautifully decorated, and a lovely luncheon was served by the stake board. The short program was enjoyed by all. It was a real joy to hear the sisters talk of the times they had when they were presidents and counselors in Relief Society. Some of the elderly sisters were unable to attend the luncheon and social, but a great many of them are still very active in Church work." * e i. ~ J oi "ae sa F 4 i af x a4. * ' 3 * ~ iN + j -_. >. * 7 ' —_.?. A 4 A By é 3 Z. @; Rs 2 _.: < Kansas City Stake, Kansas City (Kansas) First Ward Singing Mothers Concert, February 2, 1962 Front row, left to right: Joyce Sanders, director; Clarine Downs and Mary Condie, accompanists; Doris Watkins; Donna Fry; Rowena Gillette; Virginia Rowe; Emma Kemp; Janice Bassett, First Counselor; Norma Clark; Norma Tracy, Second Counselor. Second row, left to right: Audrey Kelly; Elsie Parnell; Lucille Molen; Wilma Sneddon; Lois Smith; Leona Danbury; Venna Witbeck; Janet Mollus; Kay Pope; Zina Walker; Verda Willyard. Back row, left to right: Birdella Corcoran, President; Marian Laudie; Ann Scott; NOTES FROM THE FIELD 689 Norma Wheatley; Marjorie M. Reeve, President, Kansas City Stake Relief Society; Helen Smith; Laura Midgley; Geri Fackrell; Ingaborg Midgley; Sharron Newberry. LaRue Wilde and Jacquelin Kirkpatrick were not present when the picture was taken. Sister Reeve reports: 'The Kansas City First Ward Singing Mothers presented a concert for the building fund. Thirty-four sisters spent long hours in rehearsals. Many nonmembers attended, giving an excellent opportunity to ask '"'the Golden Questions" and to explain our Relief Society program. Our selections for presentation in the concert were excellent. We all love the Magazine very much.": io ary ' a = gt Andes Mission (South America), Magdalena Del Mar Branch Singing Mothers Present Music at Leadership Meeting for Two Districts April 15, 1962 Left to right: Gloria Malaga; Victoria de Manquez; Isabel de Hurtado; Bertha de Vergaray; Nancy Brown; Amparo de Ramirez; Mavie Dye; Celinda Clements; Augstina de Lopez; Graciela de Pachas; Josephine de Ramos; Adriana Ramos. Fawn H. Sharp, President, Andes Mission Relief Society, reports: ""The first twodistrict leadership meetings of the Relief Society was held in the Mira Flores Branch in Lima, Peru. All of the officers and teachers of the two districts were in attendance. "Informative displays were made of the lesson materials for the year, with one of the sisters explaining the display. Charts were on display of the monthly report, and Sister Ruth Ojeda (a Peruvian missionary) explained the new roll book and the procedure for filling out the monthly report. "There were several displays of suggestions for work meeting, with each branch bringing one idea to show and to share. The sisters brought a pattern for each article to be exchanged with the other branches. "A Singing Mothers chorus directed by Nancy Brown and Mavie Dye presented music for the afternoon. One of the members of the chorus, Bertha Vergaray, gave a short talk on the value of a Singing Mothers chorus in the branch. The slides of the work meeting articles displayed by Relief Society in Salt Lake City at the time of the mission presidents conference were given to each branch, along with a copy of the directions and instructions translated into Spanish. "It is the plan now to hold a meeting of this type for the two districts in Lima four times a year, giving the sisters the helps and instructions most needed. All the materials discussed and ideas used will be taken or sent to the scattered branches in Peru, so that all will benefit from these meetings." Mae Martindale Johnson — Organist and Teacher of Music RS. Mae Martindale Johnson, Rupert, Idaho, has faithfully served Relief Society and other Church auxiliary organizations for many years as an accomplished musician and organist. Her service as a musician began in 1900, when, at the age of thirteen, she was named assistant organist for the Oakley Ward, Idaho, where _ her father, William C. Martindale, was presiding elder, having been sent to head the Church colony in that part of Idaho in 1879. Since this first assignment, Mrs. Johnson has served as organist in all the Church auxiliaries and has been a member of the Minidoka and Burley Stake Relief Society boards over a long period of years. She is generous with her talents, and she and her husband, Herman Johnson, are much in demand for entertainments, at which he plays the guitar and she the piano accompaniment. Although barely able to reach the pedals of the pipe organ, she is an accomplished organist and is dearly loved for her beautiful music and for her devotion to the community Mrs. Johnson is the mother of six talented children, five of them musicians of note, and all of whom serve the Church and their communities. Mrs. Johnson also reared her husband's youngest brother and sister. She is devoted to her grandchildren and great-grandchildren, many of whom are following her love for music and her service in the Church. 690 LESS ON DEPARTMENT THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants esson 43 — The Day of Rest and Devotions Ider Roy W. Doxey Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59:1-14) or First Meeting, December 1962 pjective: To learn what the Lord has said regarding rest from labors and the Sabath day. Troduction ville Branch members were present On Sunday, August 7, 1831, the at this conference. 'rophet Joseph Smith attended the They Shall Rest From Their Labors uneral of Polly Knight, wife of The Lord promised blessings to oseph Knight, Sr., who had given those who were to come up to the aterial substance to the Prophet. Land of Zion, provided that they (D & C 12; 23:6.) Their son, Newwould have an eye single to God's el K. Knight, wrote that his mother glory. As Section 59:1 points out, insisted upon traveling from Kirt- "an eye single to my glory" re land to Missouri notwithstanding quires that one keep the commandthe fact that she was very ill. Her ments. Consistent with _ this greatest desire, to stand on the land — thought is the: verse which follows: 4 Zion, was granted her. Of Polly For those that live shall imherit the Knight the Prophet wrote that she earth, and those that die shall rest from as the first to die in the land of all their labors, and their works shall fol- _fion, and as "a worthy member _ low them; and they shall receive a crown Sleeps in Jesus till the resurrection." 9 the mansions of my Father, which I (DHC I: 199, footnote.) By the 7th have prepared for them (D & C 59:2). Of August the land of Zion was conOne may reflect upon this scripsecrated as a gathering place for the ture with joy, realizing that when aunts, the temple site was dedimen and women follow the Lord's ated, and the first conference was plan of life here, their righteous eld in Zion, this being the Fifth labors will be rewarded when moreneral Conference. 'The Coles. _ tality ends. | ) +. 691 692 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 Following the necessary sojourn in the spirit world where advancement is made toward the ultimate glory of the resurrection, a place is received in the mansions of the Father — the celestial kingdom, for those who have had their minds single to God. (D & C 88:20-22, 66-68. ) Revelations Are Blessings The good things of the earth are promised those who obey the gospel. This is a blessing discussed in Lesson 41 (Relief Society Magazine, July 1962) concerning Zion. In addition to these temporal blessings, the saints are to be blessed with commandments and revelations: And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea, and with commandments not a few, and with revelations in their time — they that are faithful and diligent before me (D & C 59:4). There is the fact that one's spiritual welfare is greatly enhanced by obedience to all of God's commandments. 'There are some people, and their numbers are great, who believe that commandments are restrictive, little realizing that the gospel frees people from bondage. (John 8:31-32; D & C 84: 49-53.) Real freedom consists of a clear conscience toward God and man. Commandments come by revelation. Revelations also provide the faithful with hope, peace, and courage to continue on to the end. Great Commandments Only the Father can say that one of his commandments is greater than another. This he has done through his Son by saying that one should love God as the first commandment and second, that one should love his neighbor as himself. (Matt. 22:37-40.) In the revelation comprising this lesson, notice the important information given about these two great commandments. Wherefore, I give unto them a commandment, saying thus: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy might, mind, and strength; and in the name of Jesus Christ thou shalt serve him. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Thou shalt not steal; neither commit adultery, nor kill, nor do anything like unto it (D & C 59:5-6). In this revelation specific reference is made to certain commandments the violation of which clearly indicates that one does not love his fellow man. 'These laws condemn stealing, adultery, murder, or anything like it. All one needs to do to verify the importance of these laws in relation to the second great commandment is to ask: "Does one love his neighbor if he commits any one of these infractions of the moral law?" (Lessons 26 and 27, Relief Society Magazine, August, September, 1960. ) Thanksgiving and Humility Thanksgiving is to be shown to the Lord in all things. For what should the saint be thankful — life with its opportunities to prove oneself? The fulness of the gospel that brings purpose into life? That divine direction is received today by inspired prophets? The joy of knowing that great blessings accrue to those who are faithful? These and countless other blessings should be acknowledged to the Father in LESSON DEPARTMENT prayer. But this is not the only way that gratitude is to be expressed. When one keeps the commandments, he prays, and he also loves the Father and the Son. (John 14:15; D & C 46:7.) Prayer offered in humility with a thankful heart assists one to continue in the faith. Humility is the quality of being teachable, of responding fully to the Lord's will. The humble person, one who has a broken heart and contrite spirit, will demonstrate his gratitude for all things, and he will be made glorious. (D & C 78:19.) The Sabbath Commandment All of the foregoing truths from Section 59 were given in preparation for the Sabbath day commandment, as follows: And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto the brethren, and before the Lord. And on this day thou shalt do none Other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or in other words, rejoicing and prayer (_D & C 59:9°14). 693 Shown in the form of "thou shalt," or what is required on the Sabbath day, these commandments may be stated as: 1. "Thou shalt go to the house of prayer." For what purpose? " that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world." Under the most favorable conditions people may fall away from the truth, but the person who goes to the appointed Church meetings will find a place of faith, of learning, of glory, of order, and verily, a house of God. (Ibid., 88:119.) In the house of the Lord, as in a sacrament meeting, the communicant meets friends from whom he receives encouragement. Sometimes members of the Church absent themselves from the sacrament meeting because they feel that they hear the same messages often, or for some other reason. President Heber J. Grant had this to say on this thought: There are some who say they will not go to meeting because they know just who will talk and what they will say. I realize that such persons are becoming indifferent to the spiritual things of the kingdom. I know people, who, in the old world, would go many miles to a meeting because they were in love with. The gospel. They will not cross the street now because they have lost that love. Just as surely as failing to eat will cause our physical frames to shrink and die, just so sure neglect to supply our spiritual natures will bring death to them (Gospel Standards, page 98). 2. Thou shalt "offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day."- What does this mean? Sacraments and devotions are similar. Specifically, a sacrament is a ceremony wherein 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 one makes a covenant with the Lord. For Latter-day Saints the partaking of the sacrament constitutes a covenant-making and a covenant-renewal opportunity. When partaking of the sacrament worthily, the member is promised the blessing of the Spirit to be with him. Here alone is sufficient reason for attending the sacrament meeting in the true spirit of worship. 3. "This is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors." Verse 10 of Section 59 informs us that the keeping of this commandment is essential to Sabbath worship. What does it mean to rest? Certainly it does not mean idleness. But from what are we to rest? Elder John A. Widtsoe suggested that a true rest is one in which the person has a change from the occupations or work of the weekday; however, we should devote our activities to the requirements of the Sabbath day. (Evidences and _ Reconciliations 1:220-221.) But are there activities of the week in which some people must be engaged? 'There is necessary work to be performed, such as the feeding and care of animals on the farm, some public service industries as power, light, hospital, police and fire protection, etc. In the main, however, the person who engages in Sunday work may find himself an inactive member of God's kingdom. 4. Thou shalt "pay thy devotions unto the Most High." As indicated earlier, devotions are similar to sactament as given in this revelation. What are the devotions of the saint in meetings of the Sabbath? Instructive on this question is the following: On the Sabbath, the Saints should be in the house of prayer and offer up their 'sacraments'; that is, present their devotions before the Lord, in the form of songs of praise, prayer and thanksgiving, testimonies, partaking of the Sacrament, and contemplation of the Word of God. All this is meant by the word "sacrament," which, in its widest range, stands for any sacred rite or ceremony whereby we affirm our allegiance to our divine Lord (D & C Commentary, page 351). In the words of President Joseph F. Smith: Men are not showing zeal and ardor in their religious faith and duty when they hustle off early Sunday morning on the cars, in teams, in automobiles, to the canyons, the resorts, and to visit friends t places of amusement with their wives and children. 'They are not paying their devotions in this way to the Most High (Gospel Doctrine, page 246). 5. Thou shalt offer thine oblations... Unto the Most High." Spiritual as well as temporal offerings (which are really spiritual) are to be rendered to the Lord. An enlightening explanation of the meaning and application of "oblations" anciently and today, may be found in the D & C Commentary, page 352. 6. Thou shalt confess "thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord." The following statement of Elder Marion G. Romney, delivered in general conference, suggests an explanation: I would assume that we are to confess all our sins unto the Lord. For transgressions which are wholly personal, affecting none but ourselves and the Lord, such confession would seem to be sufficient. For misconduct which offends another, confession should also be made to the offended one, and his forgiveness sought. , ee a=] LESSON DEPARTMENT Finally, where one's transgressions are of such a nature as would, unrepented of, put in jeopardy his right to membership or fellowship in the Church of Jesus Christ, full and_ effective confession would, in my judgment, require confession by the repentant sinner to his bishop or other proper presiding Church officer — not that the Church officer could forgive the sin (this power rests in the Lord himself and those only to whom he specifically delegates it) but rather that the Church, acting through its duly apointed officers, might with full knowledge of the facts take such action with respect to Church discipline as the circumstances merit. One having forsaken his sins and, by proper confession, cleared his conduct with the Lord, with the people he has offended, and with the Church of Jesus Christ, where necessary, may with full confidence seek the Lord's forgiveness and go forth in newness of life, relying upon the merits of Christ (Romney, Marion G.: Conference Report, October 1955, page 125). 7. Thou shalt "let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart." It seems that the intent of this instruction is that Sunday does not become a feast day. On this point we have the following: Upon the Sabbath, even the food should be prepared "with singleness of heart"; that is to say, in simplicity. Our hearts, our desires, on that day should not be elaborate feasts, whereby some are prevented from having a Sabbath. A simple meal should suffice. 'To that extent every Sabbath should be a fast day, one bringing perfect joy (D & C Commentary, page 352). 8. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing." This admonition seems to point out that the positive requirements of observing Sunday, as listed above, provide €nough counsel on what should be 695 done. It is also apparent to the careful reader of this revelation that the Lord did not seem at that time to catalogue the negative aspects of this law. In time, however, disobedience by the world to the Sabbath law in making Sunday a holiday instead of a holy day, and the use of the automobile with public places of recreation open on the Sabbath became widespread, and members of the Church began to succumb to these temptations. Accordingly, First Presidencies have issued formal statements about Sabbath observance. The latest, issued on June 19, 1959, by President David O. McKay, J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and Henry D. Moyle, emphasizes the commandments given anciently and in Section 59. After quoting the modern revelation and Exodus 20:8-11, 20, the following appears: Latter-day Saints should not permit these commandments regarding the Sabbath to slip from their minds. All during this, the Last Dispensation, the Prophets of the Lord have urged Sabbath-observance upon the people. Different concepts of Sabbath-observance have been urged upon us by unbelievers, partial-believers, and by the thoughtless, concerned primarily with the pleasures of the world, sometimes under the guise of recreation, sometimes by activities the Lord has told us were sinful. The Sabbath is not just another day on which we merely rest from work, free to spend it as our lightmindedness may suggest. It is a holy day, the Lord's Day, to be spent as a day of worship and reverence. All matters extraneous thereto should be shunned. We must bear in mind all these principles. We must remember particularly actual Sabbath-breaking labor which might be required from a great number of Lesser Priesthood members in any Sabbathbreaking activities, including interference 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 with their duties and attendance at quorum meetings. For all these and for many other reasons affecting injuriously the religious duties and activities of the whole Church membership, Latter-day Saints, with a testimony of the Gospel and a knowledge of the spiritual blessings that come from keeping the Sabbath, will never permit themselves to make it a shopping day, an activity that has no place in a proper observance of the Holy Day of the Lord, on which we are commanded to pour out our souls in gratitude for the many blessings of health, strength, physical comfort, and spiritual joy which come from the Lord's bounteous hand (Deseret News, Saturday, June 20, 1959). Parental Example The Lord established the Sabbath as a holy day that man might benefit spiritually. Unto Moses, Israel's prophet, the Sabbath was known as a sign between the Lord and Israel. (Exodus 31:13-14; Ezekiel 20:10- 24.) "the counsel to keep the Sabbath holy is as applicable today as when it was given. 'The observance of Sunday as the Lord's Day is a fact of modern revelation. (D & C 59:12.) The keeping of the Sabbath today will have the same effect as was promised anciently, the sanctification of the person. How will the world know the Lord's people today? One way is by their observance of the day of rest. The testimony of the truth comes to the obedient. A witness of the gospel must be based upon the faith of the individual. Every parent should ask, "Is my attitude toward Sabbath observance reflected in the faith of my children?" In other words, if the parents break the law, will the children feel that they also may disregard the Lord's commandment? Observance of the Sabbath day by the parents brings forth fruits of faith in the lives of the children and the testimony of truth through keeping the other commandments. Questions for Discussion 1. Discuss: The commandments of the Lord are blessings. 2. Name some of the commandments (not Sabbath day) given in the forepart of this lesson. 'T'ell why they are important. 3. Enumerate some of the blessings for which the Latter-day Saint should be thankful. 4. Name as many of the eight "thou shalts" of Sabbath day observance as you can, 5. What does it mean to (a) offer up thy sacraments (b) rest from thy labors (c) pay thy devotions to the Most High. 6. Discuss: Sabbath day observance by parents affects the lives of their children. M A P A\ ] A II A BI E A map (28" x 21"), "The Mormon Exodus to the Rocky Mountains," FOR 1 AFITANY oN TNX T = | 4 | ¢ ' j | () RS showing the journeyings of the saints from New England to the West, is available at the Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, 65c postpaid. Its use is recommended by the General Board of Relief Society. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 43 — "Be of Good Cheer" (D & C 61:36). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, December 1962 Objective: To point out that cheerfulness is an important element of the gospel's teachings. The Lord wants us to be of good cheer. N ancient story told in Hebrew households concerns a_ sage who met the Prophet Elijah in a Busy market place. The sage asked the prophet the character qualities the Lord looks for when he bestows special blessings. Looking over the Square, crowded with barterers and traders, the sage inquired if any of those would earn the Lord's blessings. 'The prophet replied, "None, save these," and pointed to a small group of people obviously lacking in worldly goods but whose faces radiated cheerfulness and kindness. The sage, seeking to learn the reason why these people had been singled out to receive the Lord's blessing, inquired of them as to their virtues and deeds. Their leader replied, "We are poor people. Our main virtue is that we have merry hearts. We seek to bring comfort and hope to those who are discouraged. When we meet one who is sad, we strive to chase away his sorrow and to bring sunshine and good will into his life." As we think of the essential elements »f the gospel, characteristics such as love, faith, hope, charity, and mercy come instantly to mind. Probably but few of us would immediately associate cheerfulness with the Saviors teachings, yet he frequently emphasized _ this quality. For example, on the occasion when the Master's disciples were sailing on the sea and the wind and storm seemed about to engulf them, Jesus came toward them walking on the water, and called to them, saying, "Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid" (Matt. 14:27). On several occasions when the Savior healed the sick, he said, "Be of good cheer." (See Matt. 9.2.) After Paul's miraculous conversion, when he was preaching to the people in Jerusalem and they threatened to kill him, "the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul" (Acts 23:11). Cheerfulness implies having courage, optimism, confidence, and a feeling of comfort and repose. One thoughtful author has said, "Cheerfulness radiates confidence and enthusiasm. It is the antidote to worry, fear, discouragement.. Cheerfulness gives mental alertness, serenity of mind, and_ broadens 697 698 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 sympathy. Cheerfulness brings contentment and tranquility" (KLEIsER: Inspiration and Ideals, page 94). To be cheerful means to look for the joy and sunshine in life rather than to dwell on the gloom and shadows. To be cheerful means to gladden, comfort, and raise the spirits of those with whom we associate. It means to be kind and courteous, gentle, gracious, sincere. Ours is a cheerful religion. The gospel teaches us to be happy and confident. 'The prophet Nephi emphasized this when he said: "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25). All gospel principles are aimed at bringing peace, confidence, and happiness into men's lives. To be cheerful is not always easy but it is a truism that as we think cheerful thoughts, we become cheerful. Someone has aptly said, "Those who bring sunshine into the lives of others cannot keep it from themselves." Solomon said, "A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance" (Proverbs 15:13). Cheerfulness, then, is probably nature's most appealing cosmetic. It shines through from the soul like a wondrous light. Therefore, let us always remember the comforting counsel of the Lord when he advises us to "be of good cheer... For I am in your midst, and I have not forsaken you" (D & C 61:36). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 3 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part III) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, December 1962 Objective: To help us understand the value of organizing our time. WHEN you have achieved the goal of making your home convenient, of having each item located where you use it first, of having duplicate items, such as cleaning materials, in different parts of the home to save backtracking, you are ready for attacking the next goal, which is organizing your time. You should start looking at time from the standpoint of a daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly sched- WORK MEETING ule. There are some folks who look down life's path for a five or ten year stretch and try to make each day's activities add up to meet their longtime goals. A prominent educator tried this idea and was determined to complete her master's degree before reaching age thirty, her doctor's degree before age forty, and to have her sons well on their educational path, with missions accomplished, before reaching midcentury. She has other goals for each decade before becoming a centenarian. 'There have been interruptions and minor changes along the way, but the big goals have been accomplished. The time schedule of each day, if carried through to completion, can give one the satisfaction that comes with accomplishment. A calendar with large squares that would give one an opportunity to make notes for each day, would be an invaluable aid in making timeplanning easier. Go through your yearly calendar and make a special note of all of the birthdays, special celebrations, and significant events for your family. Then, with a colored pencil, block off the time that will be required for getting ready for special events or for certain types of work that must be done. When you see the over-all picture for the year, you will be able to space out your work to avoid overloading the daily and weekly schedule. Now, look at your schedule for the week (the blackboard is used to demonstrate the method). Rehef Society is written on one square; Church events are scheduled in their proper places, and family hour, the highlight of the week, is starred. 699 After all the items important to you and your family are on the schedule, then it is time to think of how you are going to get your work done in between all of these other obligations. No two people organize and plan their daily work in exactly the same way. 'The essential thing is that you do organize, that you do have a plan, that you do get up early in the morning and get yourself ready for the day's work. This means wearing suitable clothing, not a house robe and bedroom slippers. A careful planner and organizer can accomplish more in three hours than another person who works aimlessly can accomplish in a whole day. Scientific planning requires that you know what is to be done, who is to do it, when it is to be done, and how it is to be carried out. Your day's work may include these jobs: meals to prepare, lunches to fix, beds to make, rooms to clean, walks to sweep, animals to feed, darning to be done, a hem to turn up in a dress, and a visit to the dentist. Just listing the jobs will help you to plan who should do them. Homemaking is a_ co-operative enterprise, and each member of the family should share the responsibilities as well as the benefits. Rotating assignments to keep interest going is an asset; teaching the method for doing the work is the managers task; accepting the work done without redoing it is a must; checking and teaching ways to improve is part of the follow-up. Very young children can be taught to put their clothes away and will later welcome the oppor- 700 tunity to make their beds. Give them praise and encouragement for what they do and lead them into greater responsibility. The efficient home manager does not do all the work herself, but considers the home a training center for improving home and family life and sees to it that every member is part of the plan. Here are some tips for streamlining some of the jobs to be done and for finishing work on schedule: Plan meals well in advance. Pack the lunches the night before. Pick up misplaced items and straighten the living room before bedtime. Develop the "while" technique — while the bread is baking have the darning handy. Learn to be ambidextrous. In all this planning, don't forget to save some time for self-improvement. Have you heard about the homemaker who complained to Louis Agassiz after hearing one of his lectures that she never had a chance to do any of the things he suggested? She was always busy and never finished her work in time to do any reading. She said that one of the main jobs she had to do was to peel the vegetables and get the food ready for dinner. "Where do you sit while you peel the vegetables?" he queried. "I usually sit on the back step," was the answer. "What is the step made of?' he asked. "Tile," was the answer. He asked her what kind of tile and she said, "I don't know. "How many years have you been sitting on that step?" he asked. "Fifteen" was the answer. "Lady, here is my card," said he, "find out everything you can about tile and send me a report." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 This experience changed her life. She started planning her work so that she would have time to study about tile. She read about it in the dictionary and in the encyclopedia. She borrowed some books from the town library and she found something made of tile everywhere she looked. She wrote a twenty-seven page report of her findings and sent it to Professor Agassiz. He was very pleased with the information and used some of it in a report he was making. He sent her a check, and asked her what was under the tile. She replied, "Ants." He sent word back that he would like to have her make an investigation about ants. 'This study took her to the country, to the museums, to the science laboratories of the university, and she wrote a lengthier report about ants than she had written about tile. Professor Agassiz had her report published and she received enough money to buy several books and to enroll in some classes that would help her with her new interest. She eventually earned enough to travel extensively and to enlarge her understanding of the world and _ its people. Every homemaker should feel that she at the end of the day has learned something new — that she is a better person than she was the day before. She must continue to build herself if she is to be an interesting member of the family group and be able to inspire others to greater accomplishments. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How can time planning assist one to be the master of her fate? | WORK MEETING 2. How early should a homemaker begin to train her children to assume responsibilities in the home? 3. When is one justified in forgetting 701 the time schedule? 4. In what must a home manager be skilled in order to make her home an example of good organization? LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 35 — The Alcott Family Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York) For Third Meeting, December 1962 Objective: To accept the Alcott home, real and fictional, as a memorable example of the unity which kindness and love can create. FEW children's books have ever received or deserved the popular reception given to Louisa May Alcott's Little Women from _ its publication in 1868 until almost our own day. Before her death twenty years later, at the early age of fifty-six, Louisa saw hundreds of thousands of copies of Little Women printed, which made her a fortune, paying her far more than the other two hundred and fifty works She published during her lifetime. From her girlhood, Louisa had determined to succeed at writing. This she accomplished, thus earning the financial security so entirely absent from the home in which She was reared. Poverty, and sometimes actual want, characterized herearly life. All during her constant struggles to lighten the financial burdens in her home by tending and teaching children, doing sewing, and hiring out as a housemaid, she was constantly writing on one story or novel after another, until she developed a style of her own and achieved a considerable literary skill. But technical skill alone could never have produced books so many children have loved so intensely. The memories of her childhood years in a home environ- * ment of imaginative freedom, kindness, and mutual love give to her pages the strength and joy which make Little Women charming and 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 ll wt ee ne, A Perry Picture LOUISA MAY ALCOTT real. Before we can fully appreciate that the people of this novel are portrayals of the parents and _sisters who dominated her life, we must first let them come alive in their own right. Amos Bronson Alcott (1799-1888 ) Bronson was born in the pioneer community of Wolcott, in western Connecticut about twenty-five miles north of New Haven. During the summers of his later teens he borrowed money from his frugal father, shipped to various southern ports, then went on extensive walking tours, carrying baubles and jewelry and knickknacks in two metal trunks which were strapped over his shoulders, one in front, one behind. The isolated southern folk welcomed him with enthusiasm, often allowing him to stay in their large mansions as long as he chose. On his most memorable peddling trip, he found himself among Quakers. T'lieir simple lives and intense religious idealism shaped his own thinking profoundly. Long before he met Emerson and the Concord 'Transcendentalists: he was the purest of idealists; indeed he was unique even in his own day, not merely because he was an idealist, but because throughout his life he was nothing else. The Teacher Alcott He returned from his peddling as heavily in debt to his father as when he left, but now determined to bring others the light and ecstasy which he had found by becoming a teacher. After reading his own definition of his calling, it is not — surprising that he devoted his life to teaching with a zeal so intense that his innovations caused him to be misunderstood, ridiculed, and so forced to close his schools. His words soar with fervor: If there be any employment which, among the inhabitants of our earth, claims a precedence, that of instructing the young in the duties and pursuits of time and eternity seems to hold itself conspicuously to notice. And this de servedly. No other employment in which men can be engaged is more intimately connected with the welfare of human beings.... It is the employment of God. The supreme principle by which he hoped to guide his life-long LESSON DEPARTMENT ~~ A Perry Picture Lovisa May Alcott's Home, "The Orchard House," Concord, Massachusetts career as a teacher was his own "General Maxim" that one should "teach in imitation of the Saviour." For him, teaching was never merely instructing, but the rising to a lofty spiritual level where, for a moment, the teacher lent his mind to his students. Each day they were given five minutes during which time they were encouraged to discuss their intellectual and spiritual progress or retrogression during the past twenty-four hours. To our modern young mothers it may well seem strange that Alcott used the following method of discipline in his home; when a child merited punishment, he was denied the privilege of being allowed to tend the baby or help mother clean up the kitchen dishes. The supreme punishment was not for the child to be deprived of his supper, but for him to eat while glumly watching the empty place of his father, who, by abstaining, brought the erring child to contrition. In 1827 he met Miss Abigail May, daughter of Colonel Joseph May, one of Boston's first citizens. She was twenty-seven, he twenty-eight. He was overwhelmed to find a 704 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 woman of breeding and culture who enjoyed listening to his elaborate plans and theories and she, in turn, was impressed with his idealism and his sweet spirit. When they were married two years later and_ received a wedding gift of three thousand dollars from her father, Bronson calculated that if he sold all the copies of his current book and spent the entire sum in payment of his debts, he would still owe $3,400.00. In 1843-44 he organized Fruitlands, an idealistic attempt to solve the problems of society and education by rural communal living. Founded in June, it lasted until January, when starvation for his children forced him to abandon his dream. 'Though friends took his family in, during the next few months he well nigh died of a broken heart, but the love and patience of his wife restored him. From 1879 until his death nine years later (just two days before the death of his daughter Louisa), he was Dean of the Concord School of Philosophy which gathered during the summer months to hear him and others talk, but this was after Louisa's success had solved all his financial problems, which he had _ never acknowledged anyway. Mother "Abba," Strength in Love With every reason to scorn her husband's_ extended conversations with the great, his endless search for "minds," and his occupying himself with a daily journal which totaled more than fifty volumes containing over five million words, his wife "Abba" sold her personal possessions to buy food, and finally went to work in the slums of Boston as, perhaps, the first paid social worker in our country's history. The miracle that only love can perform became in their relationship and in their home a common, everyday fact. From the day she first met him until her death, she preserved and protected their love high above quarrels and her dreamer husband's failure "to provide." In 1856 she recorded in her diary, "This is the twenty-fourth time of moving. We have been married twenty-six years." And again, "Mr. Alcott cannot bring himself to work for gain; but we have not yet learned to live without money or means."" While she appreciated his "quiet reliance on Divine Providence" she believed "a little more activity and industry would place us beyond most of these disagreeable dependencies on friends. They have to labor. Why should not he?" But in her journal how often she expressed her love and happiness! For example: May 29, 1842 Three weeks today since Mr. Alcott sailed. I am trying to get accustomed to the thought that I can do without him. I think I can as easily learn to live without breath. Most central is Abigail's definition of love, which reveals not only how much of her skill with words Louisa inherited from her mother, but how everyone in this home felt its radiance and reflected it back to its source. Abba wrote,... When I speak of love, I do not mean that flippant little God to whom the votaries of fashion address their prayers, whose wings they sometimes borrow and flutter through the bowers of LOUISA MAY ALCOTT ideal roses and lilies; not those more careless pursuers who kneel: at every shrine, and lay their hearts on none. No, — I mean that clear though deep current of affection which, stealing silently, unobserved, into all the recesses of the heart, issues thence only in the pure, healthy rills of kindness, tenderness, good will, devotion. 'This is what I feel for the only being whom I have ever loved as companionable, or with whom I could associate in the heavenly tie of matrimony. Alcott, Successful Father With such a wife, to fail would be difficult, indeed. And while he was well aware that the gold in which he dealt bought nothing in the Concord market, he too filled the home with his gentleness and kindness. It is not by chance that Little Women is filled with references to Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress; all the children knew it almost by heart, so often did their father read to them from its pages. He loved his children enough to teach them constantly, design _ their clothes, and tend them when ill and often to prepare their meals. He played with them on the floor or in the barn and went walking with them in the woods. He loved beauty and love so strongly that he desired most of all to give these priceless values to his daughters, as shown in the following excerpt: My children, I will show you what is beautiful, beautiful indeed: It is a pure and happy, a kind and loving family, a home where peace and gentle quiet abide... Around whose hearth gather serene and loveful countenances, where every hand is quick to help, every foot swift to save, every eye agile to catch the wishes and every ear the wants of others; where every day is a long and well-gotten lesson of love and wisdom and _ patient resignation and steady trust in that Good 705 and Generous Power that sends Health and Hope and Peace. How well he succeeded is best proved in Little Women, justly loved for its vigorous yet tender picture of the ideal New England home of the nineteenth century. Louisa's Education Born on November 29, 1832, in Germantown, Pennsylvania, where Bronson was then teaching, Louisa was reared in the idealistic, intellectual atmosphere which radiated from her father. In addition, she learned many lessons from sources other than those she might have known had she ever received a formal education beyond the grades. Perhaps her battle with practical need and the heavy routine tasks she undertook "to help out" in her family might best be summarized by some of her own words, I can't do much with my hands so I will make a battering ram of my head and make a way through this rough-andtumble world. Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors. I wrote it [An Old-Fashioned Girl] with left hand in a sling, one foot up, head aching, and no voice. Yet, as the book is funny, people will say, "Did you enjoy doing it?"... I certainly earn my living by the sweat of my brow. So every day is a battle, and I'm so tired I don't want to live; only it's cowardly to die until you have done something. Twenty years ago I resolved to make the family independent if I could. At forty this is done: debts all paid, even 706 outlawed ones, and we have enough to be comfortable. Much as she loved and honored her father, Louisa found it difficult to be the daughter of a philosopher. When she was at Fruitlands, aged eleven, she arose at five on a September morning to have her bath. "T love cold water," she wrote, "the rubdown with coarse linen towels. At seven the family sat about the table to eat the meal father had prepared: water, unleavened bread, apples and potatoes." Since Louisa was reared a vegetarian, relatives who came visiting brought their own chunks of meat. Though "Abba" sewed and took in boarders, the Alcotts were always accepting gifts, Louisa wearing her first new dress when she was twentyfour. Beholden, constantly moving, with strangers living in their family circle — no wonder she wrote in her journal, "I wish we could just be a real family, like everyone else." Yet she knew many people and many happy moments. She wrote and produced plays with Emerson's children, and he was her firm friend, writing of her, "She is a natural source of stories.... She is and is to be, the poet of children. She knows their angels." 'Thoreau often took her boating, along with neighboring children, and in the middle of the stream would raise the oars and play his flute, then suddenly in grave tones begin stories about Indian lore of the area. The Young Writer Driven by her strong desires to help her family and to succeed as a writer, throughout her teenage years Louisa faithfully kept a jourRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 nal, wrote down the stories which she loved to tell to children, and wrote and produced plays in collaboration with her sisters. It was while she was teaching school in Boston and hating it, that she made the following entry in her journal: My first story printed, and $5 paid for it. It was written in Concord when I was sixteen, cat rubbish. Read it aloud to my sisters, and when they praised it, not knowing the author, I proudly announced my name. In 1854, when she was twentytwo, her first book "Flower Fables," written for Emerson's little daughter Ellen, appeared. This was a collection of tales for children for which she received $32. It was not long until she was earning more from her writings than from her various employments, which enabled her to make increasingly sizeable contributions to the sparse family income. When Moods appeared in 1864 (four years before Little Women), she wrote in her mother's Christmas copy. My five years of labor, love, disappointment, hope and purpose are a useful experience that I shall not forget. Now if it makes a little money and opens the way for more I shall be satisfied, and you in some measure repaid for all the sympathy, help, and love that have done so much for me in these hard years. I hope success will sweeten me and make me what I long to become more than a great writer — a good daughter. And so God bless you, dear mother, and send us all a Happy New Year. Hospital Sketches Louisa May Alcott gave generously not only of her money, but also her personal service to relatives, friends and strangers alike, and OUISA MAY ALCOTT From the beginning of the Civil ar, that great humanitarian reormer Dorothea Lynde Dix had erved as supervisor of volunteer urses, but she was given no real ower until July 1862, when the ent out a call: Only women of strong health, not subects of chronic disease, nor liable to suden illness need apply. The duties of he station make large and continued deands on strength. Louisa, age thirty, was strong and illing. On December 14, 1862, he reported for hospital duty in ashington, D. C. Accustomed to resh air and a vegetarian diet, ouisa fled from the bad hospital ir whenever she could, and soon ad to force herself to the mess hall here she had to eat daily "beef idently put down for the men 76; pork just in from the street." fter less than a month's service he became so ill that she could ot leave her room; soon she was sent home to recover from a serious attack of typhoid. She lost all her Beautiful hair, a yard and a half long, and almost her life before she recovered months later, though she as never really well again. As soon as she felt capable of the ttempt, she began writing of her xperiences. In August 1863, ospital Sketches appeared and was her first real success. And typically 4 used her first $40 royalty to pay r her grandmother's funeral. Her ecount of the war conditions ranks ith Walt Whitman's Specimen ays as a trustworthy, moving acunt of the suffering and heroism 707 which were prevalent. In contrast to many other observers, Louisa was neither excessively sentimental nor grim; her words have the ring of truth and restraint. She writes of John, the giant bachelor blacksmith from Virginia who must be told he must die, as he sat, '... Lonely and forsaken just then, with bent head, hands folded on his knee,... But a great tear rolled down and dropped upon the floor. It was a new sight there; for, though I had seen many suffer, some swore, some groaned, most endured silently, but none wept. Yet it did not seem weak, only very touching, and_ straightway my fear vanished, my heart opened wide and took him in as, gathering the bent head in my arms, as freely as if he had been a little child, I said, "Let me help you bear it, John." Little Women and Other Writings After Hopsital Sketches Louisa continued writing "pot boilers," which brought in money but nothing else. Often she belittled her efforts, longing to write another Wuthering Heights. The time was ripe for her own masterpiece, which she worked on fourteen hours a day until she sent off the first twelve chapters to a publisher. He found it dull, as did she, but with her usual pluck she kept polishing and revising it until she caught that rare aura and feeling of actual people in real circumstances which gives the book its strong appeal. Every girl who reads the book identifies herself with one of the sisters, and knows the others as well as her own family — indeed they are her family until the book closes and the spell is broken. In addition to Hospital Sketches (1863), Moods (1864), and Little Women (1868), the following are among her most 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1962 familiar writings: An Old-Fashioned Girl (1870), Little Men (1871), Work (1873), Eight Cousins (1874) Rose in Bloom (1876), Jack and Jill (1880), and Jo's Boys 1886). Louisa's "angel" was her _ gift to speak to the hearts and imaginations of children of all ages; her family's gift to her was a home scene unique in its goodness and love. She blended her writing skills with the supreme values of her life — family unity, love and joy — into America's ciassic contribution to children's literature. But in thus giving to posterity her contemporary domestic scene, she gives liberally of herself and her family as well, gifts always to be esteemed by those who would know and love the enduring qualities of their fellow mortals. Thoughts for Discussion 1. To what extent was mother Abigail responsible for the unity of the Alcott family? 2. What ideals do you find incorporated in Louisa's own life? In her writings? 3. How did the Civil War aid Louisa in attaining the maturity as a_ writer which she needed? Visual Aid Packet Available for 1962-63 Literature Lessons Appropriate visual aids can be of great assistance to a class leader. If wisely used, they can enrich the lesson material by adding interest, strengthening a point, and clarifying an idea. They also can be used effectively in introducing or concluding a lesson. A picture kit of carefully planned visual aids for the 1962-63 literature lessons may be obtained from the Department of Audio-Visual Communication, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, price $3.50 (not obtainable from Relief Society General Board). 1. Portraits of Henry David Thoreau, Louisa May Alcott, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Abraham Lincoln, Herman Melville, Walt Whitman. 2. View of Walden Pond (for lessons on Thoreau). 3. Illustration of a whaling ship for the lesson on Moby Dick (Melville's masterpiece). 4. Six small pictures for the literature map. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government No lesson is planned for December in his department, due to the holiday season. Disc overy Vesta N. Fairbairn Delight may stay Throughout today, But the heart's deep sorrow Includes tomorrow. Awn and Sunrise Mabel Law Atkinson A silver flute-call! Night Dons copper lace. A white gull curves in flight i With slow, smooth grace Through silences of space. Tiptoeing light as a fawn, A breeze ballets. In a mitror-pool, a swan... And a white birch sways. Hush! Stillness speaks his praise. In the peace of quietude, Calm, beautiful, From the mountain top, cool-dewed, Comes the miracle: Pale gold illumes the gull. For SINGING » MOTHERS —_ ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen.20 _— GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spoafford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner -.0.----0--0----0--.30 veneee JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach -.25. LET NOT YOUR SONG END— EE —.25 a LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 a LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— ST |.20 _. LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 ae LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.25 ie MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen_ -----.25 mz STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen -- --.22--eeeceeeneenee 22 me UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven -.22 maa VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Soeetee 0._.. 2. 25 ee ee Fete Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah | Please send the music indicated above. [] On Approval [) Charge [] Money Enclosed Name ona ooo e cee ceecececceceeceeeccececsecncecencance / salt Lake City 11, Utah [ [ Fl 1 15 E. Ist South | I l I Gives you the ultimcte in fingertip total All of the Numbers for the electric living now Relief Society and M. I. A. And for years to come. Are obtain > pe f) "a So A th ~ | BEESLEY tk Wusi (Co. When the future is allelectric, why buy anything 70 SO. MAIN ST. — EM 4-6518 but a Gold Medallion Home? SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Mason & Hamlin — Hardman UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. And the Original Cable Pianos Buy now from your decier ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade Leaving December 26, 1962 1. A MEXICAN TOUR Leaving end of January, 1963 Temple Wedding Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Ruins Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Anno unceme nte Archaeological Ruins Ask about Mardigras Tour in February For Your Daughter's Temple Marriage Custom Printed by Handy Mail Order 100 only $7.95 ESTHER JAMES TOURS Other Styles 100 for $5.95 460 7th Avenue Write for FREE brochure and samples Salt Lake City 3, Utah or send 25¢ for complete catalog.: REXCR A F T Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Dept. R Rexburg, Idaho It was 33 years ago last April that we first offered SNELGROVE "DISTINCTIVE" ICE CREAM It wasn't long before our finer Product found its way into the hearts of particular folk, and today we are producing a product that is preferred by all who demand the industry's supreme achievement. Over the years Conference Visitors have had a great part in our unusual success. "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" is more beautiful and larger than ever. "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" rove 7™™" Yas Ercan OUR ONLY STORE-— 850 East 21st South — Open until Midnight — (Closed Sundays) Dusk Dorothy J. Roberts Darkness seems to come first from the trees After their triumph in the afterglow When they stand, shadowless, in amethyst — Darkness seems to cling to them and grow. E BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in @ handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles. 35 150 to 300 miles. 39 300 to 600 miles 2.0000. 45 ¢ 600 to 1000 miles. | 1000 to 1400 miles..64 1400 to 1800 miles 16 Over 1800 miles 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR Leaving September 14, includes British Columbia EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR Leaving September 8 ROSE PARADE TOUR IN DECEMBER Ask about our Hawaiian Tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah 71] Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. SaraAH LEGGE JACOBSON St. George, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. JENNIE GILES SPRAGUE Monroe, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. Ciara West BREWER Ogden, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. LuELLA PARKINSON COWLEY Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. HarriET ELLEN Forses ADAMS Layton, Utah Mrs. Lituie P. STRAHE Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Mary SopuiA PETERSON BURKE Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. MarGARET ELNORA WISEMAN Mituer Davis Coalville, Utah Mrs. Errie EnsicGn MERRILL Logan, Utah Ninety Mrs. ManHata JANE GARDNER BRACKEN St. George, Utah Mrs. Minna MANDELKOW KIRCHOFF Salt Lake City, Utah 712 The Art of Homemaking by Daryl V. Hoole 259 Second edition just off the press First edition sold within two months "THE ART OF HOMEMAKING promises to decidedly change the outlook of womankind towards her obligation within the home. After reading it through, | begin each day's routine with a feeling of delight and anticipation. Mrs. Hoole should be considered 'the Dr. Spock of homemaking arts'." Now available at your local book stores or by ordering copies direct from B. Y. U. Salt Lake Adult Education Center 200 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah or Extension Publications Brigham Young University Provo, Utah MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS! New Arrangement of nanaAbide With Me—by Dr. Florence Madsen -20c ee. Such Lovely Things -..25¢ a. So Little Time 25¢€ —_—Kindness 2 0cccceceeeeeeeeROE ——. Lord, God of Our Fathers 25¢ ilLet Not Your Song End 25¢ —How lovely Are Thy Dwellings -.2..---0scceeee25¢ a. Eye Hath Not Seen 20¢ _ Eternal Life 00022 eee22¢ _The Silent Sea 25¢ —_. Lord, We Dedicate This House to Thee -- ---20c aeGo Ye Forth with My Name 25¢ We carry complete stocks of all types of music! Music sent on 10 days trial Postage free GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 246 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah 1. STAND FAST BY OUR CONSTITUTION J. Reuben Clark, Jr. The late President Clark was truly devoted to his country and served it well: as Solicitor for the Department of State, as Under-Secretary of State, and as Ambassador to Mexico. In this collection are masterpieces he has written on freedom, the American way of life, and the Constitution of the United States. They include: ''Our Dwindling Sovereignty.'' ''Let Us Have Peace."' ''America—A Land Choice Above All Other Lands,'' and "Why | Am An American.' Phas 2. POLYNESIANS CAME FROM AMERICA! Mark E. Petersen Now in print—Elder Petersen's thrilling address delivered at the last April General Conference on his visit to the Polynesians and how he became firmly convinced of their close relationship to the American Indian. In this speech he cites world scholars like Thor Heyerdahl (widely-known Norwegian anthropologist who sailed on the raft Kon Tiki) and others who hold the same views. Tremendous reading! 39 Modern Scientific Findings Harmonize with 3. REVELATION THROUGH THE AGES Spencer W. Kimball Inspiring and uplifting is this address by Elder Spencer W. Kimball delivered at the last April General Conference. Elder Kimball speaks on the possibility of interplanetary communications and other amazing feats in our space age. 'When we add to (scientific) assumptions and findings the knowledge acquired through the scriptures and then place an Omnipotent God in the center of all things, the picture becomes clearer and purpose gives it meaning and color." 0 eneteay| ae " "Deseret Book (0. Ee eeeesansaeee: i..;. SERB RESRRERBESE RET SEES r 44 East South Temple - Salt Lake City, Utah |; 8 s He Deseret Book Company / 44 East South Temple / Salt Lake City, Utah;: Gentlemen: s is Enclosed you will find check money order | have an account. Please charge.!: for the encircled (numbered) books: 1 2 3 Amount enclosed.: |: IN eee cece e cece eee r etree etn teeene feeeeeeaeitneeeeeneeeeeeeseenenas. | |. SS cee e eee ee eee eee tee e ee tence eeeeteee dae ceteteeeestitieteees Geteeeeeess: 'p i | i" re eae — Zone Staten. F; a Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. |:. Ese e cnn cennesensesnnnsseencsneneranennsnccaceuvcunsscuncunsnsenccenacscennanad Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah J *% Pr 4 a Wa 7 ae | a "peachy" family dessert fresh peaches, cream and sugar! Nothing tantalizes a weary summer appetite like juicy, plump Utah peaches topped with cream and sprinkled with pure, sparkling-white U and I Sugar. Try serving peaches topped with cream and sugar to your family tonight, and see if they don't agree. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY General Offices: Salt Lake City, Utah 
