
Invoke the Miracles Alice Morrey Bailey What can soothe this winter-wounded world— Storm-beaten, stabbed where bitter ice has hurled Its barbs, and winds have gnarled the tortured tree? How cleanse the leaf-locked streams of their debris? Come, rescuer, and thaw the binding shrouds And sweep the sodden sky of murky clouds. Let mending moods of sun and gentle rain Persuade new life from buried husk and grain. Where branches, autumn-robbed, stand mutely stark And frost-numbed, turn the warming south wind's flood. Revive the white roots' groping in the dark, The veins' slow pulse to embryonic bud. Invoke the miracle your hour begets And heal the snow-bruised earth with violets. The Cover: Isle of Oahu, Hawaii Transparency by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Bates Creek, Wyoming Photograph by Aksel H. Nohr Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Sar I wish to show appreciation for the Magazine, and for Counselor Sharp's article 'Relief Society 'Today Needs You" (November 1961). This article touched my heart and gave new meaning to our motto "Charity Never Faileth." Since I have been working in Relief Society I have had the joy of seeing our weekly attendance doubled, imactive _ sisters brought back, our teachers freshly inspired and enthused, our visiting teaching maintained at one hundred per cent throughout the past five months — and I attribute this to the fact that The Relief Society Magazine is to be found in every sister's home. I read and study every part of it. I derive from its pages spiritual and practical help. I know it influences me in supporting my husband in his many duties and callings and in bringing up our Six children. I believe the Magazine is unique in that it suits every woman, both young and old, and of every nationality. I once thought I couldn't afford the Magazine. How wrong I was! Now I know I just cannot afford to be without it. —Jennifer Mason Cheltenham, England My wife has subscribed to your fine Magazine during the entire period of our married life — eighteen and one-half years — and prior to that, it was in her mother's home during all her married life. I don't always get to read it, but can honestly say that I am always well pleased with what I read. It lifts me spiritually. The quality is always very high. —lIra M. Stevens McClean, Virginia I just had to write and tell you how much I enjoyed the article "A Golden, Golden Wedding Day" (by Linnie Fisher Robinson, September 1961). The lady who celebrated that golden wedding was our nearest and dearest aunt. I haven't seen a wild daffodil since I was a little gitl, but I remember gathermg them on our hills. I am so happy to have this beautiful article in print for lasting enjoyment. —Mrs. Carol Durham Alameda, California Page 74 As the only adult female member of the Church on this island, for over a year, I enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine so much for keeping me in touch with other sisters. Now two other sisters have arrived, and we hold our weekly meetings, often with several investigators. Now, rather than as a companion, I find my Magazine serves me best as a guide for the lessons I teach. I sincerely thank you for the comfort the Magazine has given me in faraway places. I enjoy each issue to the fullest extent, and then take pride in handing it on to others, knowing they will be learning the gospel from any part of the Magazine they read. —Joyce Kartchner MacCabe Nicosia, Cyprus I thank you for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. I love everything that is printed on its pages — the letters From Near and Far, the continued stories, and the short stories, and most of all, I love the lessons. —Mrs. W. B. Martin Preston, Idaho The Relief Society Magazine has been my favorite for many years, for I enjoyed reading it in my parents' home — and how it has improved through the years! I have had various positions in Relief Society, including ward president, and we found the Magazine to be one of our best missionary aids in bringing new members into our group. Gift subscriptions often led to interest in the society, then attendance at meetings, and, eventually, membership and subscriptions. We sent the Magazine to all missionaries and to each newly baptized sister. —Ruth L. Jones Los Angeles, California Thank you again for the wonderful help and encouragement in printing my poem '"Farthborne" (June 1961). Because of © it, I have received correspondence from a_ sister in the gospel clear over in Australia. How thrilling to think that words or ideas you have expressed have traveled so far. —Marjorie Reay San Mateo, California

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - » - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Edith S. Elliott Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Florence J. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Leone G. Layton Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Blanche B. Stoddard Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Evon W. Peterson Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Aleine M. Young Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - = 7 - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - > Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 49 FEBRUARY 1962 NO. 2 
Contents 
Fellowshipping Through Relief Society.. N.. O ececceeececeesecesceceeees-ceeceesseeeneeneneeneecenacesMark E. Petersen 76 Funeral and Burial of President Brigham Young -. C: ccs-ssssssecsseceneeceseeeenersecesePreston Nibley 84 We Help Build a Church at Potomicg iinie. CieieeeieceececencescceceenececeeeenceneeensseneeeenseaneeececeneseaseViolet M. Evans 108 FICTION Splendor Before Dawn — Second Prize Story.0 0 -EE EESara O. Moss 79 Se) ES TON) fo tre le D) =. 1 a arBetty Lou Martin 99 (SS Nts TS: 1, e co. Oii oe " Maryhale Woolsey 106 A Legacy of Lilacs 2200 — ee ee _———Pauline L. Jensen 112 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 2 o2 ccccccicceccececeeeeeeeeeee ene eneetee cnnMargery S. Stewart 117 GENERAL FEATURES eT PCT NT nn nnn ance eee een necece cee cne reece cree cee necesenseccecvereceresecssneneccansrencesecceerereucrecaseusseune 74 EEE ae 94 Woman's Sphere.. Ramona W. Cannon 95 Editorial: Refinement of the Soul Through Tribulation 220.22. Marianne C. Sharp 96 Notes to the Field — Hymn of the Month — Annual List 220.2 eee ceseeececee eee ceneneeceeeeeees a 98 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20 0.0..000.. Cccoccceccecee cee eee ce eeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeHulda Parker 124 PMI GOMGTOTIGTIONS one nncccennececesnereneessscecnaseeeecencececeecssaccseccacensnucccensoreceouensnscenpansensesensnnsensscnsenssnenees 152 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Ieomermurimg, Care, and Storage nn eccccenecnncnanenccncnaneccececeenecuseesbacececessRuth P. Tippetts 90 Make It Out of Imagination ooo eccceceeececeeeeeceececeseseceeesseceueseveecesstenssteevensecesseneeesSylvia W. Dixon 102 RM PORK Griddle Catkes iin. A ne. Ences. Ecscce cceeoce sence ses ceseececcunsescccercueceeceseeecentenececeneenaceceeeneereeChet Switell 105 Cauliflower Casserole oo cceececssececccceceescececeesceseccceccceecessceeeeecesseeeesscoreessesenssececiesessnassenesesEdna Lind Cole 105 Cafe Curtains Are Versatile 22 esse. Ceceee cscceeeecensencecectseceecensecseecsenecenecesceneeccenesucencecesShirley Thulin 110 MEMOT YOUL LUN ry on ncnncencsenone----ceceserenaceenneeere--a--uennnenrecenneaeeustsseacna----esnna-oaraneecneenuncensJanet W. Breeze 114 "Sweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed') 000.2 cceeceececececeeeeeeeeeceeeeseeeesMabel Law Atkinson 115 Pearl Bunnel Newell Specializes in Knitting Sweaters and Making Hairpin Lace oes 116 LESSONS FOR MAY Theology — Put the Kingdom of God First 20 -sssscsssessssssecossnseecssveseeneelenseeenleneese: Roy W. Doxey 131 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Continue in Steadfastness"' ww Christine H. Robinson 137 Work Meeting — Hello and Goodbye oon ecceccccceessstseaeeceeneeeeceeeeeneeeeeoeeeElaine Anderson Cannon 139 Literature — Edgar Allan Poe — Artist of Word and Sentence 2. -eceececeeseeeeesBriant S. Jacobs 141 Social Science — Fullness of Life and Exaltation ooo cece ceceecececesceesseceeceseeessseeeeeeeesAriel S. Ballif 146 POETRY Invoke the Miracles — Frontispiece _ -c-c-c---sscscscececcnsecnescococeeeesseenececeseeeeccsnseeAlice Morrey Bailey 73 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1962 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of. Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Page 75 Fellowshipping Through Relief Society Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961] T is wonderful to be with you sisters. It was thrilling to watch the roll call and see women from all parts of the world arise. It surely impresses us with the fact that the Church is now a world Church, as it never has been before, and surely the prophecies are being fulfilled, wherein the Lord has said that the little stone cut out of the mountain without hands shall roll forth and fill the whole earth. We have had a demonstration here this morning of how that little stone is really rolling forth, and how truly enough the world is our field. It is a great inspiration to be associated with the Relief Society. Every year I am more impressed with the excellence of its work and the devotion of all you wonderful people, and with the outstanding leadership of your great Presidency and General Board. I am constantly amazed at the ingenuity, the inspiration, the strength, and the leadership of these wonderful women. They have been most cooperative with us in every way, as we have tried to carry out various phases of our part of the program, which has touched theirs. We are so grateful for the way in which all of you have responded. This morning, for a few minutes, I would like to talk to you about one of the subjects mentioned by Sister Page 76 Spafford in her excellent address and report. She mentioned that we are reaching about half of the women of the Church through our Relief Society, and she also mentioned the importance of reaching the good women of the world who are not members of the Church. May I talk to you about those two things for just a moment. We believe that Relief Society is so important that it ought to be taken to every woman in the Church, that we should not be satisfied in any sense with reaching half of them. We know, too, that another lesson Sister Spafford taught us this morning ls all important, we cannot wait for the women to come to Relief Society. We must go out and seek them. We must ask them before the Rebeccas or some other organization asks them. Let us be solicitous about the women of the Church first, then about the good women not of the Church, so that we may bring them in. One of the most important things about reaching out for these people is that we exhibit real friendliness and neighborliness in doing so. We are trying to promote in the Church, through our missionary program, a good neighbor policy whereby every Latter-day Saint will be a good neighbor to every other Latter-day Saint. We would like to have every FELLOWSHIPPING THROUGH RELIEF SOCIETY vif Latter-day Saint woman be a good neighbor likewise to every non-Latter-day Saint woman. Isn't it but keeping the commandments? Isn't the second great commandment "Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself"? We cannot fulfill that commandment if we are exclusive at all. We must have the missionary spirit with respect to enlisting the women who are already members of the Church. If we are reaching only half of them, then let us set our goals to reach the rest of them. Relief Society may be used as a marvelous re-activation organization. We may reach out to the younger women, the new mothers, and to the working mothers. Who needs Relief Society and its work more than working mothers to help them enrich their lives and their homes? And we can reach out to the wives _ of inactive brethren. We can reach out to inactive women themselves, and we can reach out more to sisters who are active in other organizations, but not so much in our own. UT how are we going to do it? We are going to do it by being friendly, being neighborly, by visiting, by soliciting their attention, and by giving them a demonstration of what Relief Society can do for them. I once heard an address by one of the great salesmen of the business world. 'This man, after talking about the great value of friendliness in making sales, said that the next great point was that people who are selling a product must show the customers what the product will do for them. I think that is very applicable to Relief Society, don't you? If we, through friendliness, can build up confidence in the minds of those who do not come, and then if we can follow up on that friendliness by showing to them what Relief Society can do for them, then we will, if I might use the business expression, sell them on Relief Society. I firmly believe that many women do not come to Relief Society because they do not know what Relief Society is. I do not believe that all of them understand what Relief Society has to offer them. How can they know, unless we tell them? Is it out of the way, for instance, for us to go into the home of a new mother and give her a demonstration right in her home of what Relief Society can do by way of teaching her home nursing, child care, child psychology, making home a more attractive place, building up the high standards that ought to be in every good Latter-day Saint home? May we not go to the working mother and show her how Relief Society can fit into her needs and her time? May we not go to the intellectual, yet inactive woman, and actually give her a demonstration in her own home of what the literary lessons can do for her? And may we not bring the message of Relief Society by actual demonstration to all others in the same way? We need to go out and demonstrate by actual live demonstration what our work will do for them. Then there is this great missionary program referred to by Sister Spafford. President McKay has announced that every Latter-day Saint is to be a missionary, and part of that means that the existing 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 organizations, including the auxiliaries, will participate in that program. That means that we are going to continue this friendliness, this neighborliness, and by this neighborliness and friendliness, build confidence in the mind of the nonmember neighbor, and let her know what Christian goodness there is in a good Latter-day Saint woman. First, build confidence, invite them to social groups, then invite them to Relief Society, and when the time comes, arrange, as Sister Spafford has said, to co-operate with the missionaries. T would be a wonderful thing if every good Latter-day Saint mother would be willing to invite to a cottage meeting in her home her good non Latter-day Saint neighbors and permit the missionaries to come in and give the missionary lessons to these women so that they may understand the gospel doctrinally, as well as by merely observing us. Every one of us can be missionaries by extending the hand of fellowship to nonmembers, by encouraging them to be friendly with us, by inviting them to our cottage meetings, by co-operating with our stake and foreign missionaries. I was glad that Sister Spafford invited us to use the people, lest we lose them. I am confident that if we can properly fellowship the women of the Church, and the good women not of the Church, and hold out to them a hand of friendship, we can bring in many of the Latterday Saints who are not now coming; we can use our work as a means of conversion for many who are not yet members of the Church. Will you be willing to look at this matter from the standpoint of a missionary? We must save the Latter-day Saints, as well as the nonLatter-day Saints. We must convert the Latter-day Saints, as well as the non Latter-day Saints. If half our women do not come, there must be many among them who need conversion to our way of life, to our organization. 'here are many nonmembers who are willing to come. Let us use our facilities to convert them, so that the light of the gospel may come into their homes that they may then help to build Zion. That we may all work together in this way, is my humble and earnest prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. Oie A TTloment Padda M. Speller Rayleigh, Essex, England, British Mission Written on the occasion of the visit of President McKay to Great Britain in February 1960. I caught my breath, my heart was stilled; I thought, this wonder cannot be. With joyous tears my eyes were filled, Our Prophet gave his hand to me. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Splendor Before Dawn Sara O. Moss ARY dusted the two end M tables with special pleasure. They were her latest "joys," their satiny finish gleaming against the rich brown of the fabric on the recovered couch. She glanced around the room, thrilled with its beauty. It was just as she had dreamed it would be, though it had taken years — by adding a piece at a time — to make the complete picture. But here it was — something to be proud of, something she had always wanted — an elegant living room. The telephone rang. Mary hurried to answer it, knowing it must be Linda with one of her problems. It seemed that was all the girl had was problems, since she and Phil had undertaken the pretentious house on Juniper Street. "Mother!" Linda was almost hysterical, "they're going to take our washing equipment — all of it, the washer, dryer, and ironer." Mary waited a minute. "I'm sure it isn't that bad," she said with confidence. "Surely you can make some arrangement." But the girl was adamant. 'Three payments had lapsed. 'Their money was gone. "Tll come down," said Mary. "We shouldn't discuss this on the telephone, dear." Mary hung up the receiver. She had to call John, her husband, about this. They would have to help Linda. No woman could get along without a washer. John listened as Mary told him the latest trouble that had_ beset their youngest daughter. "This is their problem, Mary," insisted John, "those two people must find their own way out of the brush. They have to learn that they can't live in a mire of debt and survive." "I know, John," pleaded Mary, "but a washer. No woman can get along without a washer. It's her right arm." John hesitated at the other end. "No handouts, Mary, no loans," John insisted. Page 79 80 Mary waited. "All right, John," she said a bit grudgingly, "but it wouldn't hurt us to help out a little tight now." "See you," said John with finality. Mary hung up the receiver. She thought of her own first washer — a secondhand affair, because John insisted on paying cash. She could hear it yet, loud, noisy, and unlovely to look at, but how she thrilled at the lines of clean, bright clothes waving in the sun. She had not minded that she was not the first to wear off the newness. She had only felt a keen delight in knowing it was hers. We K K KR OK ARY drove slowly. She wound around the circular streets of the large subdivision. The beauty of the new structures impressed _ her. These were houses of warm, blending tones, rambling large houses, soft white bricks combined with mellowed wood, and others of softtoned woods and sturdy brick. 'There were smooth, spacious lawns with groupings of hard metal furniture. There were expensive rock work, flowers, and shrubs, which were cared for by paid gardeners. Then there was Linda's and Paul's house — unlandscaped, the cold, hard clay spilling over onto the stone-laid driveway and walks. Mary rang the bell. "Mother!" exclaimed Linda, as she opened the door, her eyes red from weeping. "I'm so glad you came. 'Those men were here. 'They have taken all the washing equipment. I didn't think they meant it, but they did. We just couldn't make the payments." Mary walked through the long hallway into the spacious, carpeted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 rooms. 'The nine-month old baby sat in a playpen near the kitchen. Mary picked up the child, and then she could see the vacant wall where the laundry equipment had been, Its emptiness marred the elegance of the wall. Mary suddenly roused to what Linda was saying. "And another thing, those people who were supposed to do the landscaping were here last night." "Yes?" said Mary questioningly. "Instead of just putting in our lawns and shrubbery, they want to terrace and put rock work in the backyard. The engineer says there's a spring on our lot, and he wants to make a waterfall. Oh, Mother, it will take thousands of dollars." Marty rose from sheer nervousness. "And it seems we owe for the installing of the air conditioner," continued Linda, "and these are samples of our drapes, Mother. The decorator was here yesterday." The younger woman extended several swatches for Mary to examine. "Thank goodness we haven't signed up for them yet, but I don't know what the neighbors will say if we don't soon get some drapes up. They all have so much around here." Mary rose. "Well, you'll have to do something about your laundry. Perhaps you can get by by bringing your clothes up home, then get Phil to string some lines and dry your clothes in the sun." Linda laughed. "I had to buy the dryer, Mom, because Mrs. Packer expressed her views on a clothesline. - She said she paid enough for her lot and didn't want her view obD- | structed by clothes waving in the wind. We just had to get a dryer." | Mary site as she rose. "Such | SPLENDOR BEFORE DAWN. Bondage! Oh, Linda," she said forlornly, "your young lives should be joyous and full of adventure. You can't possibly be happy with so many installments to pay." Linda was close to tears as she took the baby from her mother and followed her to the door and out to the car. "T know," she said, "but it looked so easy before we signed up for the house." Mary got into her car. "Come up home and wash, dear," she said, "until you have worked something out." She drove away, her heart wounded at the sad little figure standing in the clay. If only these young people knew the joy of freedom from debt and worry. If only they would wait for the pleasures of owning a little at a time, instead of rushing headlong into the mire of easy credit to obtain the things that come through waiting. \/{ ARY knew she could not help M these young people now. Getting the washing equipment back was only a drop in the bucket. The landscaping, the costly draperies, and the furniture for the elegant rooms, and all the other expenditures would in all probability have the same consequences as the washing equipment. John was right. They had to learn the hard way. Phil did not make that much money. Mary looked back over the years. John's thrift and organization in his life was like a religion to him. As far back as she could remember, he had saved for a rainy day. Small wages, small savings, but the habit was there. He had always been-an opportunist, too, in a small way — food bargains, little deals that filled the locker for winter. There had always been plenty, always a sure way to meet the emergencies that came along. 'Thrifty, yet no one could say John was stingy. 'That winter when Mary's father had been hospitalized in the depression days, John had come to the rescue. The little bank account was wiped out completely, and he had started in again ungrudgingly. Yes, John had helped many people — the Andersons with the large family. He had instructed Mary then to supply them with food and clothing. He had supplied them with money, too, and they had gotten by until a job was in sight. And yet, what an adventure life had been. What fun they had building their own home, making additions, improving, renovating, and making the old pieces serve their purposes. The things that mattered — music, education, a vacation, new dresses for the girls, when an event was something special — all those things John stood behind. Life was lived leisurely and joyously. No, Mary reflected, she had nevei known what it meant to be bogged in the mire of debt. The next morning Mary and John sat at breakfast when Linda drove in. She hurried up the walk, holding little Kathy limply on her hip. She was almost running, and Mary hurried to open the door. 'There was something urgent in the girl's face. "Good morning, Dad, Mother," the girl said, setting her baby on the floor. Mary could see excitement in her face. "Mother, I can get my job back, 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 so I'm going to work — that is if you'll take Kathy." Mary almost choked as the full impact of her daughter's words pierced her mind. "Well, yes, dear," she said, "but does Phil want you to go to work?" "Not exactly, 'but he really hasn't much choice, Mother. We have to make some extra money, and there's no other way to make it." Mary sat down. She could see John's set face. He did not like any part of this. "Well, Pll have to hurry," Linda was saying, "I have to be at the typewriter by nine. ['ll have to run back and change." "Now, just a minute," John was saying. He rose and picked up the smiling granddaughter. "Your mother has her job, too.' Linda opened her eyes questioningly, "But that's just volunteer work at the hospital," she said. Mary fidgeted. She wished John would not get down to cases just now when Linda needed them both so much. But her husband was firm. "Volunteer or whatever you call it, it's something she loves to do. She shouldn't have to be tied to tending children." Linda was half angry, greatly disturbed. "But I thought." "For today," said Mary briskly, "Tll take Kathy, just temporarily." John kept still, but Mary knew he wanted to prolong this argument. Linda set the bags down. "But I thought you both loved Kathy, and I thought you were glad we had bought our own home." "Of course we love this baby more than almost anything, and as for buying a home, that's a smart thing for any young couple to do if you can use moderation, but what you and Phil have undertaken." After a few curt words, Linda hurried away. "Oh, John," said Mary. "I wish you hadn't made her feel so badly just now." John put an arm around her, at the same time passing the baby to her. "Mary," he said. She could see his eyes held only love. "We're grandparents, but we are not going to be baby sitters. We have earned the right to do the things we want to do." Mary smiled at him through the baby's blonde curls. "You're so right, John," she said. "I just don't have the nerve to set the children straight as you do." week went by — two weeks. Linda was working while Mary took care of little Kathy. Things got worse for Phil and Linda, taxes, bills, commitments. It's so useless, thought Mary, those young folks aren't happy, and Phil's dragging around, with that heavy chest cold. It was that night that Linda called, her voice shaking with fear. "Phil's so sick, Mother. Can you and Dad come down? I'm so wor ried." Phil was indeed ill. Virus pneumonia had set in. For many days Phil hovered between life and death. John stayed at his side, with Linda and Mary relieving him often. Margaret, the oldest daughter, came from Callfornia to help with the baby and the work in the house. Many in the neighborhood responded with. Their SPLENDOR BEFORE DAWN love and helpfulness. The crisis passed, and Phil showed signs of improvement. 'The convalescence was slow, and it took many weeks before he could be released from the hospital. On the day he came out of the hospital Mary and John suggested that they come to their home until Phil was stronger. It was a Saturday afternoon. Phil lay on the couch in the living room. He was strangely quiet as he looked into the low burning fire. "T don't ever want to go back to Juniper Street," he said suddenly. Mary straightened. John looked as calm as usual, but Linda was startled beyond measure. She ran to his side and sat on the ottoman beside Phil, then laying her head on his chest, she burst into violent crying. Phil put his hand on her head. "Go on," he said, "it will do you good, then we can talk." Linda raised her head and wiped her eyes. "I don't ever want to go back either," she said. '"We're not ready for such a big house yet, Phil. It's something we should have waited for for many years." "We'll lose our shirts maybe," said Phil, "but suppose we do. The 83 way it is, it's like a chaos — a scramble, so much to live up to—far beyond our means." Mary felt a joyous relief. 'Then these young people had learned, and John had been right. 'They had come out of the brush. "Tl talk to the agent," said Phil, "af he can sell, we'll take what he can give us. We'll get us a small place like." "Like this," supplied Linda. "We'll buy just a little at a time like Mother and Dad have done. We won't ever go into all those installments again." Linda's face showed relief and joyous expectancy. Mary got up suddenly. "I'll fix us a snack," she said, hurrying to the kitchen. John followed close behind. "Well, dear," he said, pulling Mary toward him, "I think you can buy that washer for Linda now." Mary beamed. "Oh, I'm so glad, John," she said. "She's going to need it. But no dryer, John. She can get along without a dryer." John smiled. "No dryer, Mary," he said. "She still has to find the sunshine, and a clothesline is one sure way." Sara O. Moss, Salt Lake City, Utah, writes: "I have tried to show that debt is such a bondage, especially for young people who seem prone to buy all the things at once." Mrs. Moss is a talented and enthusiastic writer. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, a former member of the Barnacles, a writers club, and is a member of a well-known workshop group in Salt Lake City. She is the wife of Don W. Moss. They have three daughters: Joyce and Mary Sue who are teachers in the Granite District; and Mrs. Carol Donna Voss of Pomona, California. They have one grandchild. Mrs. Moss was born in Brooklyn, New York, and came with her parents at an early age to Logan, Utah. She received her education at Brigham Young College and Utah State University. Funeral and Burial of President Brigham Young Part II Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian leading brethren of the Church to the death of President Brigham Young, is well expressed in the words of George ©. Cannon, a member of the Council of the Twelve: "On 'Tuesday night," he states, "as I sat at the head of his bed, and thought of his death, if it should occur, I recoiled from the contemplation of the view. It seemed to me that he was indispensable. What could we do without him? He had been the brain, the eye, the ear, the mouth, and hand for the entire Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest details connected with the organization of this Church, down to the smallest minutiae connected with the work, he has left upon it the impress of his great mind. From the organization of the Church, and the construction of Temples, the building of 'Tabernacles; from the creation of a provisional State government, and a 'Territorial government, down to the small matter of directing the shape of these seats upon which. We sit this day; upon all these things, as well as upon all the settlements of the 'Territory, the impress of his genius is apparent. Nothing was too small for his mind; nothing was too large. His mind was of that character that it could grasp the greatest subjects, and yet it had the Page 84 Toe: immediate reaction of the C. R. Savage BRIGHAM YOUNG Said to be one of his last portraits capacity to descend to the minutest details. 'This was evident in all his counsels and associations with the Saints; he had that power, that wonderful faculty, which God gave him, and with which he was inspired. And while I was thinking of all this, it seemed as though we could not spare him; he was indispensable to this great work. And while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice said, 'I am God, this is my work; it is I who build up and carry | it forward; it is my business to guide my Saints'"" (Deseret News, September 3, 1877). FUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 85 II HE funeral of President Brigham Young was held on Sunday, September 2, 1877, in the large Tabernacle. The previous day, "at a quarter past eight o'clock in the moming," the body was conveyed from the Lion House to the 'Tabernacle, in order that the Saints might have "a farewell look upon the countenance of our loved and venPS & 4 Don Busath for Eig): Ais ge Riedl erated President, Prophet and Brother."' About half past ten o'clock the doors of the 'Tabernacle were opened and the anxious crowds admitted. From this time on until nightfall "there was a continuous stream of living humanity passing through the Tabernacle" until, it was estimated, that at least 25,000 people "had taken their last farewell of the honored dead." The following morning, Sunday, BRIGHAM YOUNG'S GRAVE First Avenue, Salt Lake City, Utah 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 at ten o'clock, the doors of the Tabernacle were again opened, and by noon "the building was entirely filled, as were the aisles and doorways, and every available standing place. 'The congregation within the building numbered at least 12,000, while thousands of persons, unable to obtain admission, were in the grounds of the 'Tabernacle, or in the streets outside." "At 12 noon," the immense congregation was called to order by George QO. Cannon. "The Choir of 220 voices, led by George Careless, with Joseph J. Daynes presiding at the Organ," sang "Hark, From Afar a Funeral Knell." The opening prayer was offered by Franklin D. Richards, after which the choir sang "Thou Dost not Weep to Weep Alone." The first speaker was President Daniel H. Wells, whom, with the others, I can quote only briefly. "T arise with an aching heart," he said, "but I cannot let pass this opportunity of paying at least a tribute of respect to our departed friend and brother, who has just stepped behind the veil. I can only say, let the silent tear fall that it may give relief to the troubled heart; for we have lost our counselor, our friend our President; a friend to God, a friend to his Saints, a friend to the Church, and a friend to humanity." Wilford Woodruff followed with a few remarks: "We have lying before us the earthly tabernacle of President Brigham Young. His voice is hushed in death, and all Israel has to submit to the mind and will of God. Israel will never again hear his voice until after the resurrection. I have no desire to occupy the time of this assembly, in eulogizing the life of President Young. His works and words are recorded in Heaven, and they are recorded here on the earth; and that is sufficient. Let those of us who remain a few days study the counsels, the sermons and _ principles which have been revealed to us through the mouth of the Prophet of God." RASTUS Snow followed: "... It would be a small thing to add my testimony, but which J know would be the testimony of thousands before me, as well as thousands who are not with us today, more especially those who have been longest and most intimately acquainted with him; namely, the never-failing devotion of his heart to the building up of the Kingdom of God, to the honoring of the Holy Priesthood he received, and the carrying out of the counsels of the Lord, and all things revealed through the Prophet Joseph...." George QO. Cannon then arose and read this remarkable statement, which President Young had pre pared in 1873, more than four years previously, regarding his funeral services and the disposition of his remains: "I, Brigham Young, wish my funeral services to be conducted in the following manner: "When I breathe my last, I wish my friends to put my body in as clean and wholesome state as can conveniently be done, and preserve the same for one, two, three or four days, or as long as my body can be preserved in good condition. I want my coffin made of plump one and one-quarter inch boards, not scrimped in length, but two inches FUNERAL AND BURIAL OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG 87 longer than I would measure, and from two to three inches wider than is commonly made for a person of my breadth and size, and deep enough to place me on a little comfortable bed, with a good suitable pillow for size and quality; my body dressed in my Temple clothing, and laid nicely into my coffin, and the coffin to have the appearance that if I wanted to turn a little to the right or the left, I should have plenty of room to do so. The lid can be made crowning. "At my interment I wish all of my family present, that can be conveniently, and the male members wear no crepe on their hats or in their coats; the females to buy no black bonnets, nor black dresses, nor black veils; but if they have them they are at liberty to wear them. The services may be permitted, as singing and a_ prayer offered, and if any of my friends wish to say a few words, and really desire, do so; and when they have closed their services, take my remains on a bier, and repair to the little burying ground, which I have reserved on my lot east of the White House on the hill, and in the southeast corner of this lot, have a vault built of mason work large enough to receive my coffin, and that may be placed in a box, if they choose, made of the same material as the coffin — redwood. Then place flat rocks over the vault sufficiently large to cover it, that the earth may be placed over it — nice, fine, dry earth — to cover it until the walls of the little cemetery are reared, which will leave me in the southeast corner. This vault ought to be roofed over, with some kind of temporary roof. 'There let my earthly house or tabernacle rest in peace, and have a good sleep, until the morning of the first resurrection; no crying or mourning with anyone, as I have done my work faithfully and in good faith. "IT wish this to be read at the funeral, providing that I should die anywhere in the mountains, I desire the above directions respecting my place of burial to be observed; but if I should live to go back with the Church to Jackson County, I wish to be buried there." BRIGHAM YOUNG, PRESIDENT OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1873, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PRESIDENT Young did die "in the mountains," and his instructions were respected. The concluding speakers were George Q. Cannon and President John Taylor. "His value has not been properly estimated by the Latter-day Saints," said Elder Cannon. "There are none of us who will not feel this more and more, every day in the future. Today, now that we have lost him, we examine our conduct, and the wish will rise that we had been more obedient, more willing to observe his counsels, and pay him that respect and reverence which his great qualities as a Prophet and _ leader deserved.... The time will come when the Latter-day Saints will appreciate him as one of the greatest Prophets that ever lived. "IT have been much with him. I look upon this association as the greatest privilege of my life, to have heard his counsels and witness his life as I have. And in contemplat- 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 ing that life, it seems to me perfect. In my eyes and to my feelings, he was as perfect as a man could be in mortality." President John Taylor was the concluding speaker. "We have before us," he said, "the body of the man who has led us for the past thirty-three years. 'Thirty-three years ago I was with, and witnessed the departure of our first President, Joseph Smith. He passed away in very different circumstances to those which surrounded President Brigham Young in his last hours. Immured in prison, surrounded by enemies who sought his life and attacked by a ruthless mob, savage and relentless, they took away his life, and he died by the hand, and in the midst of vindictive and bloodthirsty foes, who, in the absence of legal offense, surcharged with deadly, venomous hate, clamored for his blood. "President Young, after leading the Church, and buffeting the trials and persecutions to which the Church has ever been subjected, has, at length, in these valleys of the mountains, after having accomplished the object of his life, and done the et that has been represented here so truthfully by our brethren, who have spoken, lain down to sleep in the midst of a loving and affectionate family, surrounded by faithful and tried friends.... Both of these Presidents had the faith and confidence of the Saints of the Most High, and the guidance and direction of the Lord." After a closing hymn by the choir, and the benediction by Orson Hyde, the body of President Young was borne to its last resting place, as he had directed. All that was mortal of him was given back to mother earth; his spirit had departed to the great kingdom beyond. Il If I were asked to point out the principal thing, which, more than all others, made President Brigham Young the great man he was, I think that I should reply, without hesitation, that it was his ability to believe — his great faith. First, faith in a living God, to whom he felt personally responsible and to whom he felt obligated to render up an accounting for all the deeds done in the flesh. Second, faith in every principle and doctrine revealed and taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and a firm and unyielding determination to shape his life according to those principles. Third, faith in himself, and in his ability to carry on the great work of establishing the kingdom of God, the leadership which had come to him after the death of the Prophet. 'Time and time again in his history, I have been astounded by the strength of this man's faith. On his tombstone one might well have written He Believed — yes, he believed his religion, this great man, and he shaped his life to its principles, to his dying day. She Spirit s Stillness Caroline Eyring Miner God's masterpiece, Iguassu Falls, demands The spirit's stillness, savoring silence, too. The mighty water thunders and commands And I stand mute. Eternity shines through, As emerald-amber streaked, the living stream Plunges in shattered glass and silver spray, Rising in mist like bride's illusive dream. Glass beads spill on the mossy footstool where Embroidered eyelet flounces endless weave Hypnotic trances of this sunlit hair So silvery bright that falling, falling leaves This memory in tropic jungle green, Where the majesty and power of God are seen. Page 89 Sood Buying. Care, and Storage Ruth P. Tippetts Consumer Marketing Agent Utah State University Extension Service 66 T'S the Food You Eat That | Counts." Good nutrition for your family is your goal in buying and caring for your food supply. Through rain or through shine, in winter or summer, you have the big job each week of buying your family's food supply. You have many items to choose from. 'This complicates the picture for most shoppers. In some areas many foods are found in fresh, canned, and frozen forms. 'Though offering greater variety, more opportunity for satisfaction, and moneysaving possibilities, the multiple forms impose on shoppers a greater responsibility for making a_ wise choice. For most of us, improved transportation has extended the season for fresh food beyond that of the locally grown products. Many canned and frozen products are available throughout the year. So the homemaker's choice is less clearcut than it once was. The shopper's decision to select a fresh, canned, or frozen food de pends on many things. Shoppers usually evaluate several factors, such as cost, nutritive value, use, convenience, storage, and family preference. Prices for fresh foods change more during the year than their canned and frozen counterparts. 'The price of the fresh form is generally lowest during the local growing season. Remember that markets often have specials on all three forms of a food. With all the complications of shopping, food specialists say there are three keys to success in food shopping. 'These keys are Wise Planning, Intelligent Selection, and — Proper Care of Food. Wise Planning considers what you are going to buy before you go to the market. Make a shopping list and prepare a week's menu in advance. Use the following daily food guide to keep your family well fed. 'This guide is a pattern of choices based on what is known about our needs for vitamins, minerals, proteins, and calories. Here is that guide: Milk Group: Children need one quart per day; teenagers 1-1'% quarts; adults 1 pint or more. (Cheese and ice cream can replace part of the milk.) Meat Groups: 2 or more servings of beef, veal, lamb, pork, poultry, fish, eggs, with dried beans and peas and nuts as occasional alternates. Fruit-Vegetable Group: 4 or more servings, including a dark green or deep yellow vegetable at least every other day; a citrus fruit or other vitamin-C-rich fruit or vege table daily. Bread-Cereal Group: 4 or more servings. Or restored. Page 90 Other fruits and vegetables, including potatoes. These should be whole grain, enriched, FOOD BUYING, CARE, AND STORAGE Survey your cupboard and refrigerator to be sure of what is on hand. Know how much money you can spend. 'l'wenty-five per cent of the food budget is generally allowed for meat, twenty-five per cent for dairy products, twenty per cent for fruits and vegetables, twelve per cent for bread and cereals, and eighteen per cent for sweets, fats, and oils. Keep your food list flexible and list alternate choices in case one food is too expensive, such as the kind of meat for the main dish, or fruit for the dessert. By knowing what is needed before you go to the store, you won't be spending money for something that you don't need. You can take advantage of quantity prices if you need large amounts. Check the food items that are plentiful. The wise food shopper needs to know the time of the week and time of year when various foods are available in the largest volume. These are the ones that are most likely to give you the most value for your money. Acquaint yourself with the grades and different qualities of foods that are on the markets. Lesser known brands often provide just as good quality, and, for many uses, the top grade is not necessary. FTER you do your planning, then, it's time to use the second _ key Intelligent Selection. If you are wise, you will stick to your shopping list and buy the protective foods first — dairy products, fruits, vegetables, and meats. Let the other items come after these. Then you won't be giving in to impulse buying too much. A shopping list that is well made out, having related commodities together, will save you 91 time, and you need only shop once or twice a week to take care of the family's needs. When buying meat, you can approach your market with confidence if you arm yourself with information. First, let your eye be your guide. The best beef comes from young cattle. Meat from such ant mals is dark red, the fat is firm and white, the bones are pink, porous, and soft-looking (gray or white bones are those of an older animal). Good pork will look lean, firm, and pink, with a firm white covering of fat. Look for veal which is juicylooking, and light pink in color, with little fat covering. Choice lamb will be fine-grained, pink, and firm, with bones showing red where cut. It is wise to buy on the basis of cost per serving instead of cost per pound, especially when you buy meat. Bone and fat must be figured in the cost per serving. Beef short ribs may cost less per pound than hamburger, but it gives you only one-third to one-half as many servings. OMETIMES, according to the use you're going to make of the food, you can buy a second or third grade instead of the top grade. Grade "B" eggs are good for baking and mixing in scrambled eggs and omelets. Spend money for Grade "A" eggs only when you're going to use them for poaching, frying, or cooking in the shell. The same is true for canned goods. Casseroles and stews don't need whole tomatoes. Buy a second grade of these. Using judgment in this way can save money. Take advantage of "'specials, watch food prices. " but In finding a 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 bargain the first thing to do is to compare prices. And that means to compare prices no matter what special sales offers may be fluttering from banners, hung in the store, posted on the windows, or featured on cans and boxes. 'Those "cents off" legends on the labels of so many brands these days are not reliable. Look for the actual selling price on the item. Learn about manufacturer's brands and retailer's brands. Here you may find equal quality at a savings. Your best guarantee of quality is to read the labels. They contain helpful information as to weight, size, brand, grade, number of servings, cut, measure, price, ingredients. Buy in quantity only if you can use the product or have adequate storage space. If your family is small, small size jars and packages may be wiser buys than giant sizes, even at a low price. N©™: here is the third key, Proper Care and Storage of Food. Many homemakers overlook the importance of good care and storage for the food items they buy at the store. There isn't any point to doing a good job of planning and a good job of buying, only to let the nutritional value slip away, simply because the food was not put where it would keep its quality until it was used. Wash fruits and vegetables and store them in the vegetable compartment of your refrigerator or other cool place to keep them fresh, attractive, and full of value. Leaving them in the heat is one sure way of losing the very things you paid for when you bought the fruits and vegetables. Keep eggs clean, cold, and covered. Why covered? The shell of the egg is porous. It can lose moisture by evaporation and absorb odors from other foods. If you use the convenient built-in racks in the refrigerator, be careful to cover odorous foods and use the eggs within one week. If covered, the storage life is from two to six weeks. Keep milk in the refrigerator below 45°F. Storage time for pork cuts is somewhat shorter than for other meat cuts. Use ground meat in one day, variety meats in two days, fresh meat cuts in three to six days. If you don't plan to use ground meat the day you buy it, keep it in your freezing unit. Ground meat spoils quickly. Wrap cold cuts, sliced, in semimoisture proof material, such as waxed paper, and store at 38°F'. Use within six days for best quality. Store cured meats, bacon, and ham at 38°F. Use half ham within seven days for best quality; whole ham within ten days. Probable storage life of whole ham, four weeks; of half ham two to three weeks. Store fresh fish, loosely wrapped, at 32°F. Use within one day for best quality. Remove the tight wrappings from poultry. Rewrap loosely and store in the coldest part of the refrigerator. Use within two or three days. | A loose wrap on poultry or other fresh meat permits the air to circulate around the surface of the meat which helps to retard the spoilage. While the tough shell of nuts would lead most of us to believe that nuts are one of the best keep- FOOD BUYING, CARE, AND STORAGE ers, the opposite is true. Nuts have a high fat content. They require refrigeration. When the oils get rancid, the nuts will be stale. So, store nuts in airtight containers in the refrigerator or freezer. Unshelled nuts keep better than shelled. Unsalted nuts keep better than salted, because salt spreads rancidity. In an automatic refrigerator with the control set for normal operation, the center storage section of the cabinet will probably run between 38°F. And 42°F. The area just below the freezing unit is colder, for storage of foods such as meats, poultry, and fish, needing the lower temperatures. The bottom of the cabinet is somewhat warmer than the center, for less perishable foods. If in doubt about your refrigerator, take the temperature in different locations with a thermometer. More and more frozen foods are being used. "Zero 'Temperature"' is the most important factor to highquality frozen foods. Once food damage has been done because of higher temperatures, nothing can 93 restore quality. A frozen turkey held for one week at twenty to twenty-five degrees is likely to darken. Orange juice will separate. Fruits and vegetables will lose color and flavor. Other storage care should be given to some fruits and vegetables not regularly stored in the refrigerator. Potatoes, for instance, are a hardy looking vegetable, but they are really quite perishable. Light causes greening which results in off flavor. 'Too high temperature hastens sprouting. Too low temperatures may convert some of the starch to sugar, giving the potatoes an undesirable sweet taste. So, keep potatoes in a cool, dry, dark place with good ventilation. Store onions in slatted crates in a cool, dry, well-ventilated room. Pumpkins need dry, cool temperatures. Place on slatted shelves one layer deep. Store apples in a cool, humid place. 'Temperatures close to 32°F. Are best for apples. Store dried products in tin cans, glass jars, and plastic bags, as free of air as possible, and in a dark place. —_— She Fragile Hour Maude Rubin I walk my crusted path to evening chores, My mittened hands steel-bracketed by bails Of empty buckets.... So time treads soft white floors, Muffled by mores, wrapped in habit's veils. New boys and girls come scuffling through the snow, Their easy laughter tinkling like wind-bells, Bright skates on their shoulders. Far below The pond is unetched glass.... Old music swells, Recedes, then swells to burst the fragile hour With a high and shattering timbre of pure sound. The shards fall at my feet, a frosted flower Too brittle to open its petals.... Frozen ground Vibrates like harp-strings, plucked, and low-hung stars Sway dizzily above the pasture bars. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" OFFICIAL NOTICE: In consideration of the seventeenth of March next, 1902, being the sixtieth anniversary of the first organization of the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, the General Officers of the society have thought it advisable to make the day a special occasion of thanksgiving and rejoicing.... An interesting program suitable to such gatherings might be arranged, bringing in the best talent available.... Any veterans in Relief Society work should be remembered... Brief historical sketches of some of the great leaders in the movement, past and present, might be appropriate... And the teachings and instructions of the Prophet Joseph to the Relief Society are always suggestive and profitable to read on memorable occasions. —Bathsheba W. Smith General President DUTIES AND BENEFITS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY: We, as members of the Relief Society, feel it not only our duty to relieve and assist the poor, but to comfort the distressed with kind words and acts; to visit them personally, help them in trouble, nurse them in sickness. What a mission of love —Catharine Naisbitt LOVE'S SONG I saw two happy beings Whose lives were made complete, For scenes of summer beauty, Of wreaths and roses sweet. Bright autumn's golden harvest Of luscious fruits and grain, And winter's hoary whiteness All breathed the soft refrain: "Oh, love, thou gift to mortals given, Thou gift which flows from out of heaven, Each gentle word, each tender thought, By thy sweet spirit, love, is taught...." —L. Taylor RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN KANAB STAKE: | Sister Elizabeth Stevenson addressed the sisters. Referred to the importance of Relief Society work.... Every virtuous woman should belong to the society. Spoke of the necessity of being chaste and pure and making right marriages. There is a great mission for all mothers. Help the daughters to become good wives. All be missionaries.... Keep the confidence of your children, and teach them to be pure and holy, prayerful and modest.... Sister Harriet Brown... Remembered the hall and house where the first meeting of the Saints was held in Nauvoo.... Felt deeply interested in the welfare of the young people. Our children are our first care and will be great blessings if we train them properly. —Persis A. Spencer, Sec. Page 94 MB: ROY E. (VIRGINIA EPPERSON) JAMES of Salt Lake City recently spent two years in 'Tapei, Formosa, where her husband was deputy director of the Mutual Security Mission in China. She studied Chinese culture and spoken Chinese, taught English in her home to wives of Chinese dignitaries, was one of two foreign members on the YWCA board of Tapei. She started a project to have hard-of-hearing Chinese students tested and hearing aids obtained for them, and she founded a project to acquire record players and records for the blind as a means of education and pleasure for those underprivileged but earnest people. JOAN SUTHERLAND, coloratura soprana, in November sang at the Metropolitan Opera the role of Lucia di Lammermoor and won one of the greatest ovations in the seventy-seven year history of that famous house. AGNES DE MILLE, niece of the late famous moving picture producer Cecil B. De Mille, is not only one of today's finest choreographers and dancers, but she also has written two successful books and a number of very good magazine articles. Woman's Sphere Ramona W.. Cannon DD»: HURUTSTIATI SUBANDRIO, assistant minister of health in the Indonesian Government, and wife of Indonesia's foreign minister, recently accompanied her husband to Washington, D. C. She then came to Utah to visit with Dr. Virginia Cutler, Dean of Brigham Young University's College of Family Living. 'They became friends while Dr. Cutler was doing important work for the United States Government in home economics in Indonesia. Dr. Subandrio says they are working hard in her country on a ten-year plan to eradicate malaria, which has been killing about 50,000 people annually. '¢<CRANDMA (ANNA MARY ROBERTSON) MOSES," famous American artist whose "primitive" pictures hang in museums in many countries and are reproduced on greeting cards, died in Hoosick Falls, New York, December 13, 1961, at the age of 101. She began fulfilling her long desire to paint at the age of seventy-seven. Freshness, simplicity, and nostalgic memories of a way of life traditionally dear to her home country marked her work. She possessed courage, originality, and great strength of character. Page 95 (=) EDITORIAL ~~ V@L 49 FEBRUARY 1962 Refinement of the Soul Through Sribulation HERE ought to be a club composed of women. Who have lost their homes." The voice of the sister who spoke held a half-laughing, half-sad note. "Yes," she continued, "we lost our home when the children. Were young, during. The depression, and I will never forget the heartache." Her words started a recital of sobering experiences from those who were sewing together, yet, again and again the conviction was voiced, "It was terribly hard at the time, but I learned a lot and gained understanding. In a way it was a blessing in disguise, as I look back. Of course, it didn't seem so at the time." As one reflects on the purpose of life, it is not a matter of wonder that trials, sorrows, temptations, and bitter experiences are mixed with opportunities, contentment, peace, and joy. The great prophet Alma, refined by his own bitter, youthful experiences declared, "And thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man [after the fall] to repent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God" (Alma 42:4). The Heavenly Father is no respecter of persons, for every one in this world is his spirit child. Each one was tested in the spirit world, and only the two-thirds who were obedient were allowed to come to this earth and receive mortal bodies. So important is the faithfulness of his children in this second estate, Page 96 that those who keep their second estate are promised that glory shall be added upon their heads forever and ever. The Lord must have a tried and tested people. His omniscience gives to each of his children in this temporal world those experiences which will develop each child to his fullest potential. Of the Savior it is_ written, "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered" (Heb. 5:8). Suffering — mental, spiritual, and physical — teaches obedience, if accepted in the spirit exemplified by the Savior, "not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42). Holy writ also says "he suffereth the pains of all men, yea, the pains of every living creature, both men, women, and children, who belong to the family of Adam" (2 Nephi 9:21). In every tribulation, trial, sorrow, and pain, strength to endure may be sought from the Father in the name of his Son who went below all things that he might rise above all things. Although, at times, one may feel that one is alone in his weight of trials, one may comfort himself with the knowledge that none escapes the sins and sorrows of this world. One reads the solacing and encouraging words "blessed is he that keepeth my commandments, whether in life or in death; and he that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the EDITORIAL kingdom of heaven.... For after much tribulation come the blessings' (D & C 58:2, 4). Experiences in mortality, accepted in humility, add greater faith, deeper repentance, a stronger power to overcome the temptation, less desire to judge others, a clearer understanding, refinement, and heightened joy. And in the midst of every testing in the world one may 97 possess, through righteousness, that parting gift of the Savior — "Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27). The acceptance of daily trials and anxieties and sortows, cheerfully and uncomplainingly borne, refine and shape the individual to endure to the end and gain eternal life. —M. C. S. Siege of Winter Lael W. Hill Winter is king in your castle now, you have said; Tower and garden whiten and are still. Yet, every night I walk up the orchard hill And hear the rustle of young leaves overhead. Behind your wall only cold hands, you declare, Command your guardian stones to uniform frost. Yet the words you say drift over like petals, lost From lilac-wind warm as May upon my hair. So you are betrayed: spring has appointed spies To creep thin as ivy up your citadel, To open the secret passage, the hidden cell. Soon, banners of purple will guide our waiting eyes. She Second Mile Nancy M. Armstrong "And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain" (Mt. 5:41). { ie second mile, the mile of one's own choosing, assures the victory. The second mile changes acquaintance into friend, affection ito love, quarrel imto reconciliation, resentment into forgiveness, duty into joy, failure into success, existence into gracious living, prejudice into understanding, belief into faith. VYlotes. TO THE FIELD Hymn of the Mlonth—Annual List January - December 1962 THE Church-wide congregational hymn singing project, inaugurated by the Church Music Committee, will be continued during the coming year, and all auxiliary organizations have been invited to participate. The purpose of this project is to increase the hymn repertoire of the Church Stake Relief Society choristers and organists are requested to give assistance at leadership meetings to ward choristers and organists in carrying out this members and to place emphasis on the message of the hymns. Project. January February March April May June July August September October November December Page 98 The Lord My Pasture Will Prepare Joseph Addison — Dimitri Bortniansky God of Our Fathers, Whose Almighty Hand Daniel C. Roberts — G. W. Warren Come, O Thou King of Kings Parley P. Pratt He Is Risen Cecil Alexander — Joachim Neander O God, The Eternal Father William W. Phelps — Felix Mendelssohn God of Power, God of Right Wallace F. Bennett — Tracy Y. Cannon God Moves in a Mysterious Way William Cowper — William B. Bradbury How Great the Wisdom and the Love Eliza R. Snow — Thomas McIntyre God Loved Us, So He Sent His Son Edward P. Kimball — Alexander Schreiner I Know That My Redeemer Lives Samuel Medley — Lewis D. Edwards Now Thank We All Our God Martin Rinkart — Johann Cruger Oh Come, All Ye Faithful a She Winter Srees Vesta N. Fairbairn Nourished by hidden springs, Cradled by mountain breeze, And warmed by summer sun The little new-born trees— The cedars, firs, and pines— Are sleeping now below A blanket, soft and white, And tucked beneath the snow. »- 113 - 120 - 129 She Blue Gingham (Dress Betty Lou Martin T was only by accident that Becky found the blue gingham dress, fading now with age. She had been cleaning out an old trunk that she had brought from her Grandmother Arnold's house when she had died. She smiled when she saw the dress and held it fondly up to her, then she caressed it lovingly. "Hmm," Becky sighed, "did I ever have a waistline like that?" She folded the dress neatly, and turned to put it back in place. "What are you doing?" Becky's ten-year-old daughter Kay _interrupted her mother's thoughts. "Oh, just dreaming, dear." Becky spoke softly. "Dreaming of a time long ago. I guess that mother will have to make you a blue gingham dress someday, but you're far too young now." "What do you mean, a blue gingham dress, Mommy?" Kay questioned. "Is that what you were putting back in that old trunk when I came in?" "Yes, Kay,' Becky answered. "That dress has many old memories for your mother." "It just looks like a plain, old dress to me," Kay said. Becky laughed. "You know, it is funny, dear, but your mother thought that very same thing at one time. Believe me, it isn't any ordinary dress." Kay sat on the floor beside the trunk and eyed her mother curiously. "Were you very old when you wore that dress, Mommy?" "Well, Pll have you know that I was a lot older than you are, young lady." Becky settled down beside her daughter and gently laid the dress in her lap. As she glanced down at the dress, the years swept away, and she was a young girl again, living with her Grandmother Arnold and reliving the happiness, the dreams, and the anxieties that are a part of the young. Pa i: ed 'rINURN around once more, Becky," Mrs. Arnold - said, looking thoughtfully at her granddaughter's blue gingham dress. "Now, Becky, I think that if I take it in a little more in the waist and make it a tiny bit shorter, it should be just fine. You can take it off now, dear." Becky Arnold walked swiftly to her room. She could hardly hold back her tears. Mrs. Arnold, her grandmother, was so dear, and she had tried so very hard to please Becky since she had come to live with her, but she did want a new dress. Becky's parents had both been killed in a boating accident when Becky was nine years old, and since that time Mrs. Arnold had been as a mother to her. Times had not been easy for them, however, but they had always managed to have enough for the necessities, even though Becky couldn't have many clothes. Becky had always worn her cousins' castoffs and very rarely did she get a new dress. Since her grandmother's health had failed, Becky endeavored to support them both on her salary as an office girl at the local lumber yard. Becky wasn't ungrateful for all Page 99 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 her grandmother's tireless efforts, but just this once she wanted a new dress for the dance on Friday night. She had thought that she had enough money put away to buy the material for the dress, when the washing machine had broken down, and it had taken every penny she had saved to have it repaired. Neither Becky nor her grandmother had expressed her disappointment that Becky couldn't have the new dress. Instead, Mrs. Arnold had remodeled the blue gingham dress that Becky's cousin had given her some time before. When Frnday_ night arrived, Becky wasn't in the least excited about the dance. Her friends had been chattering all week in anticipation of it, and it seemed to Becky that every other girl had a new dress for the occasion. It's no use, Becky thought, as she surveyed herself in the blue gingham dress. No boy will ever ask me to dance wearing this. Becky pictured her grandmother slaving tediously over the sewing machine, doing the best she could with what she had. It hasn't been easy for Grandma either, and she doesn't feel too well most of the time. I should be ashamed of myself for acting so ungrateful. Maybe Grandma would like something new herself once in a while, Becky thought. Becky ran a comb through her short, dark hair, smoothed her dress, and walked into the living room where her grandmother sat reading. "You look very lovely, dear." Mrs. Arnold smiled at Becky. "The blue in your dress makes your eyes apear even more blue." Becky smiled back at her grandmother, even though she thought that Mrs. Arnold was just trying to be kind. "Thank you, Grandma." Becky kissed her grandmother tenderly on the cheek. "The dress turned out much better than I thought it would. It's just fine." "Tm glad that you're pleased, dear." Mrs. Arnold seemed relieved. "Have a nice time tonight, won't you?" ECKY met her two friends, Cathy and Janet, at the corner, and together they walked to the dance. It was a warm, lovely night, with the stars winking down like thousands of miniature lights in a field of black velvet. Becky felt as if she could walk all night in the calmness that surrounded her. Janet, a small blonde girl with a sweet-featured face, broke the silence. "You really look nice tonight, Becky." "Yes, you do, Becky," Cathy, the tallest of the three girls, added. Becky frowned. Why do they all try to be so kind to me? She thought unhappily. I know very well that my dress isn't as pretty as theirs. Why do they have to say anything at all? The dance had just begun when the girls arrived. Couples swung by, happily swaying to the music. Becky only wished that she, too, could join in the gaiety of the group. "Well, why can't I?" she mused. "After all, I'm not going to let this old blue gingham dress spoil my fun." Becky's frown changed to a radiant smile, and soon she, too, was swaying happily to the music in her modest blue gingham dress. 'Then Mike Anders asked her to dance, and for a moment she felt her smile fade, and anxiety set in. However, THE BLUE GINGHAM DRESS in the presence of Mike, her skepticism soon vanished, and once more she was caught up in the magic of the evening that had prevailed before Mike had asked her to dance. Twenty-year-old Becky had wanted to meet Mike Anders since he had moved to Pleasant City a year ago. His tall good looks had appealed to her since the first time that she had seen him. Becky danced as she had never danced before, and her young heart was full of the wonder of life and the goodness that it had to offer, if one only bothered to look for it. When Mike asked to take Becky home from the dance, her evening was complete. OK OE ECKyY shut the lid on the trunk down and slid it back in place. "It's time to start dinner now, Kay. Your father will soon be home, and he'll be hungry." "My, how we've changed over the years," Becky teased Mike at dinner that night. "And you're even more handsome now, Mr. Anders." "T guess that's my cue to tell. You that you're even more beautiful than when I married you, Mrs. Anders." Mike winked at Becky. Becky had matured into a beauttful, gentle woman, happy with her husband and family. She could never cease to wonder that God should bestow so many blessings upon her. Each moment of her life became a treasured and happy segment that added together into a glorious existence. After dinner, when the dishes were done and Kav was in bed, Becky and Mike were sitting out on the porch in their favorite spot, 101 the porch swing. The aroma of honeysuckle filled the air, and the crickets in the distance sang their enchanting song to the night. Becky felt calm and relaxed and totally at peace with the world. Mike has done this for me, she thought to herself. It was then that Becky casually mentioned the blue gingham dress to Mike. He seemed somewhat surprised. "I didn't know that you were wearing a blue gingham dress that night." "You didn't!" It was Becky's turn to be surprised. "I thought that everyone noticed the dress that I was wearing that night." "Of course I noticed that you were neat and modestly dressed, but I was too dazzled by the shining radiance of your face to notice what the dress was like that you were wearing.' Mike was serious as he took Becky's hand. Becky was startled and then she laughed. "After all the worrying I did about that dress. I thought that everyone would notice that it was made over, and how shabby I looked at the side of all the other girls in their new dresses." "Let that be a lesson to you, Mrs. Anders," Mike added. "It is the way a person is on the inside that determines whether she is beautiful or not." "That it is, Mike," Becky agreed, "but still, I think that someday il get Kay a blue gingham dress." Mike laughed. "Well, if you must, but just promise me that you wont until she is about say — twenty?" Becky laughed, too. She said. "T promise," Make Gi Out of Ymagination Sylvia W. Dixon OW long has it been since you took time truly to anticipate something? Close your eyes a moment and let yourself drift into the enchanting world you knew as a child. Remember the wonderful expectancy of everything — the Shiny new shoes that you would wear with pride to Sunday School — the tantalizing taste of that last piece of cake that might be yours after the company departed — the marvelous torture of waiting for Christmas? Recapture the wanting you knew as a child — the unmatched desire of wanting to make something for Mother, some wonderful thing she would lovingly display and, then, though everyone else was there, her eyes would hold for you alone that loving ""Thankyou" look that means so much to us all. Now we are ready to use what my Mother called "Make-it-out-of-imagination." Perhaps it was pioneer austerity that started it, the severe simplicity of the times she grew up in, but she believed anything could be made from something — and do you know — it can! Walk with me through your home swinging your mental searchlight into every corner. Ask yourself, "What makes beauty?" Is it the slender liquid gracefulness of a taper in a crystal candlestick? Well, you can't blow glass, but wait, you can put together things that will add up to the same graceful effect. Start by turning things upside down, dishes, bud vases, the shiny collar that fits around a pipe as it enters Page 102 the wall. Experiment. It's fun — it's therapeutic — and can be profitable when making gifts or decorative objects for the home. All worthwhile things are the result of knowledge, plus effort, plus talent. We must also add accident, plus inspiration, for many of the things we value most are the product of someone's imagination and inspiration after an accident or unintended turn of events in some process. 'To make things that will satisfy you and not just waste your time, you must deliberately hunt for inspiration. OST of us have one or two sherbets left from a set or some odd glass coasters, maybe a tall crystal saltshaker, the top of which is dented. Take the top off, and see how lovely violets look in this tiny slender vase. Or place the salt shaker on the turned-over glass coaster (Figure 1). Figure 1 CANDLESTICK made from a salt shaker MAKE IT OUT OF IMAGINATION My glass coasters were edged in filigree silver and dear to me because they were among my parents' wedding gifts, but the crystal bases in them were cracked. The salt shaker hid the cracks. (There are many things you can use other than a salt shaker, of course. I have successfully used two glass furniture casters, plus one stubby little dime-store salt shaker.) Using a good grade of jewelry cement, and carefully following instructions on the tube, cement the shaker to the coaster. Next, turn a small glass caster (such as you would place under a chair leg) upside down and cement it in place on top of the shaker, to hide the threads that held on the silver top. This also provides a level top for your candlestick. Decide which size candle will look best on the base you have created, find a lid from a cosmetic bottle or spray can, cement it firmly to the glass caster, place your candle in it. Anyone who has known and loved your Mother would be thrilled with such a gift, made with odds and ends that were hers. Figure 2 CANDLE HOLDER made with bottom of old lamp for base AN old floor lamp or light fixture dismantled is a veritable treasure chest for making bases for candles or centerpieces. An oriental-shaped candle looks most appropriate on a base made by turning a lotus-shaped brass ornament from an old lamp upside down and securing it to a flat-topped drawer pull (Figure 2). Most candlesticks of this type have a sharp point to insert into the candle to hold it securely. Where this is lacking, use florist's clay. 103 A drawer pull is placed above the base of the old lamp, and the candle itself is made by pouring wax into a cookie sheet and putting it on the candle in layers to build the shape. Figure 3 CANDLE HOLDER made from chair leg discarded old chair will yield a beautifully turned leg,' which, if fitted with a heavy base and spray painted, will make an elegant stand for a_ fat Christmas candle. Saw the chair leg to the desired length, remembering that two or three inches will be required to fit into the base. If you don't have an old lamp base for it, make one from plaster of Paris. Use a bowl or a cake pan for a mold, remembering to provide a hole in the center in which to place your dowel, or chair leg. (This can be done by placing the dowel or leg end in a plastic bag and easing it straight down through the plaster of Paris, holding it until the plaster sets.) Duplicate the shape of your base in the top piece on which the candle will rest. This can be made of plywood, edged with metal molding (bought on spools in almost any store). Drive a fat short nail through the plywood top, directly in the center, before attaching it to the base so that the candle can be pressed down onto the nail. The top piece can be attached with two long wood screws (on each side of the nail) or with contact glue. Spray the whole stand gold. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 For Christmas, pine cones and a green satin bow will look festive with a fat red candle (Figure 3). For a wedding, paint the stand white, antique with a little gold spray, and twine flowers down the stem. Arrange tapers of various lengths on the top (Figure 4). Figure 4 CANDLE HOLDER decorated for a wedding Purchase a plain round globe (called a rose bowl) and a package of colored, pearllike flat rocks sold for use in fish bowls. Separate the rocks, using two shades of one color or two complimentary colors. I used green and blue with a few lavender ones. Dip each pebble in jewelry coment and place carefully inside the rose bowl in a mosaic pattern pleasing to your eye. I placed them in a random fashion about one-fourth of the way up the bowl. My teen-age daughter Marianne enjoyed helping with this, and even your little ones will love separating your rocks. When the glue was completely dry, I poured pale green wax in carefully, not quite to the top of the rock design, then inserted a fat birthday cake candle in the center of the wax for a wick (Figure 5). Any small glass dish turned upside down will Figure 5 CANDLE HOLDER made with a rose bowl make a nice base for it. Before cementing the bowl on the base, insert several loops of shiny nbbon in a complimentary color between the two. You may not like all the objects you create, but you and your family will develop an awareness of the beauty and utility in everything around you. Ask yourself "What else would this be good for?" Or "What else could I use here?" It is an enchanting hobby and a worthwhile way of alerting ourselves to the potential in life. Being able to make "anything out of something," or "something out of nothing," may be a very valuable exercise for all of us. Salt-Pork G riddle Cakes Pioneer Pancakes Cuet SWITELu ¥% |b. Salt pork, chopped very fine 2 eggs, well beaten ¥, c. Hot cider *% c. Sugar ¥% tsp. Mace % tsp. Salt 1 c. Buckwheat flour 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 c. Buttermilk % tsp. Baking soda Chop up the salt pork as fine as you can while the cider is coming to a boil. Add the salt pork to the cider. Add the mace. Stir in the flour and add the buttermilk slowly. Mix well. Beat eggs and stir in sugar, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. If the batter is too thick at this stage, add 4 cup plain milk, until batter is of desired consistency.; Preheat an iron griddle or pan and brush on a bit of bacon fat, and then spread the batter. Turn heat down, as these griddle cakes must be pan-baked slowly for best results. These griddle cakes must be tasted to be fully appreciated, as they are different, and the salt pork makes them so. Serve in the usual way with your favorite syrup or honey. These salt-pork pancakes were invented by the first Latter-day Saint women crossing the plains toward their new, as yet unfound, home in the West. There was a great shortage of food, so with the ingredients they had in their wagons, the pioneering women created these wonderful salt-pork pancakes. Your family, too, will consider these a life-saver food for a special breakfast. In the original pioncer recipe, the eggs, buttermilk, and sugar were left out, and molasses was substituted for the sugar. Caulif ower Casserole Edna Lind Cole 1 cauliflower, medium size "2 ¢. Cheese, cut fine or grated 1 c. Celery, coarsely cubed "2 ¢. Potatoes, cold mashed 1 c. Canned tomatoes, chopped 1 tbsp. Butter 1 medium-size onion, cubed 1 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 sprig parsley, cut fine "2 ¢. Milk, seasoned with salt, pepper, 1 green pepper, minced paprika. Add 2 hard boiled eggs, chopped four rosemary leaves. (one to put inside and one to garnish on top) Cook cauliflower in salted water. Use all leaves, except stiff outer leaves. When done, break up flowerets with fork. Chop leaves. Add lemon juice and blend in all the other ingredients. Arrange in casserole dish. Sprinkle some cheese and paprika on top. Bake 20 minutes. Garnish with parsley and chopped egg. Serves four. Page 105 She Houdinattie Maryhale Woolsey HE spelling of the name was Mother's guess, and nobody ever questioned it. It was, she explained, a mental picture of a word somehow derived from the name Houdini, the famous magician Grandfather greatly admired. "Sure the handiest man ever I heard of!" he used to say. And that Houdinattie was the handiest, Mother thought, of all Grandfather's tools. It was a special kind of hammer, all metal, shiny nickel finished, shaped like a long letter "T," with its stem split at the bottom. Its crossbar, heavy and squared at the ends, made the double hammer head, and the split stem made the claws. Not curved as all the usual hammers' claws, but flattened to sharpness at their ends. They could pry up nails and loosen nailed-on box covers the quickest and cleanest any hammer ever could. It had an unusually good balance for nail driving, too. Whoever had the Houdinattie, would be certain to nail together the most boxes of anyone in any given period of work time. In fact, it seemed that anything you did with hammers could be done faster and more easily with the Houdinattie. Boxes were what it did the most of, because Grandfather was a "bee man" and used thousands of boxes every year to ship his honey crop. 'The boxes arrived by carload lots, pre-cut, but flat, and Grandfather put his youngsters, both girls and boys, to the job of nailing them together and stacking them at one end of the big honeyPage 106 house to be filled during the harvest season and have the covers nailed on — again, often by the sons and daughters. When a box had to be opened for inspection, that Houdinattie was the only tool anybody ever dreamed of using. The Houdinattie was Mother's favorite tool. She had liked carpentering, to an extent unusual for a girl, and often talked of learning to build things a lot more fancy than boxes, when she got bigger. "And when I grow up and get a home of my own, a Houdinattie is going to be the very first tool I buy!" she used to declare. Well, the time came. 'That is, the time when Mother married and started housekeeping — and collecting tools to put up shelves and build bookcases and cupboards and things. But, to her great disappointment, a Houdinattie was far from her first tool. The stores in the small town where her husband's work took them, had no Houdinatties and didn't even know what a Houdinattie was. Mother had to be content with an ordinary claw hammer, until some time when Father could get one for her when he went to a bigger town. It was when he questioned how to spell it, that Mother realized she had never seen the word in print — and discovered there was no such word in the dictionary. ATHER never could find her a Houdinattie. Some years later, Mother had opportunity to seek for it in big hardware stores in Ogden THE HOUDINATTIE and Salt Lake City. Nowhere could she find a Houdinattie, and among all the nice polite salesmen she talked to, there was not one who had the slightest idea of what she wanted. Even though she sometimes made a little sketch of it, they would simply shake their heads. Of course, her search never became what you might call de termined. The ordinary hammer served well enough for Mother's simple carpentry. The Houdinattie was something to run onto some day and rejoice over. It wasn't even on her mind enough to make her remember, at letter-writing times, to ask Grandfather about it. Almost six years passed before Mother made the long journey back to Oregon fora visit. The first time she wandered out to the honeyhouse, there in the tool cupboard just inside the door, she saw that bright, shiny Houdinattie. "Oh, Papa!" she exclaimed. "I'm so glad to be reminded of something I kept forgetting to ask you in my letters. I've wanted a Houdinattie ever since I got married, but I've never been able to find one in any store I've been to." "Where did you look for it?" "Why, in the hardware stores — the same places I've bought the other tools I have. But nobody, anywhere, seemed to know anything about Houdinatties. Grandfather sat down suddenly on the nearest nail keg. "Houd— that what you asked for, Houdinattie?" he wanted to know. His cheeks were pinking rapidly and his mouth twitching at its corners. "Why, of course. That's what you always...." Mother's voice 107 failed her as a mortifying thought numbed her mind — and as Grandfather's mouth opened wide to emit a grcat roar of laughter. It grew and grew until it seemed quite to overwhelm him. His pink cheeks deepened to purple; he swayed helplessly and slapped his thighs with his big hands. At last Grandfather calmed down a little, enough to say, between gusts of laughter, ""That's what I — was guessing... Oh, in those big stores! Wish I'd been there to see some of those salesmen's faces!" Mother felt her own cheeks start to burn hotly. Not until that moment, she told us afterward, had she remembered Grandfather's habit of nicknaming things. The "whatchacallit"... "That thingamumbob." But he would call them by their right names sometimes. "You always called it — that, Papa. Never once, anything else!" "Sure." Grandfather mopped his forehead with his big, blue bandana handkerchief, and chuckled. "Lots handier than its rightful nomenclature." He pulled himself up from the nail keg, went over to the tool cupboard, and_ reached down the shiny tool. "Inspector's hammer, this thing is, daughter. A man as busy as I, just hasn't time to bother with a mouthful of a name like that, all the times I'd be saying it. But that's what it is: inspector's hammer. I sure would like to have seen those clerks when you asked for a — a Houdinattie. Why, girl — if I had known you wanted one that bad, I would have bought you one from the BeeKeepers' Supply House a long time ago!" We Help Build a Church at Paonia Violet M. Evans E were told it would be a \¢ day and a half travel. We knew the name of the town, the name of the branch president, and had the blueprints along. It seemed as if we were heading toward the unknown. What were the people like, what, the town? What obstacles would interfere with the job? We passed, blithely enough, through the familiar towns of Malad, Brigham City, Bountiful, Salt Lake, and Provo. Then, the desert! I said: "It is fascinating to me, that on up ahead is a trailer space just waiting for us, as if it were fate that we occupy it." I went on: "Paonia! Paonia! We are not even sure how it is pronounced! What if it is one of those squeezed-in, smoggy, coal mine places?" The pick-up did not answer, but went along faithfully pulling the loaded trailer. More desert! More dried-up vegetation. "What if Paonia is just some more of this desert!" I exclaimed, wildly. My husband assured me that 5,600 feet altitude did suggest "in the mountains." We were both worried whether there was a trailer park with modern hookups. 'Thinking of the supermarkets and laundromats, I said: "We could hookup at Grand Junction!" Lynn replied, laconically, "Too far!' I tried again: "Delta?" He replied again: "Too far!" The monotony of the desert does tend to make one irritable sometimes. AlPage 108 though I am unusually kind to my good husband, I said: "Oh, heap big Indian Chief, far too wordy!" We had planned to get to Paonia before dark, but taking two hours rest brought us in when it was getting late. My husband inquired at a filling station about trailer parks. The considerate man got his motorcycle and went ahead of us to a trailer park among some cottonwood trees a mile out. There were six neat-looking mobile homes, widely spaced. And there was our patient "spot," waiting for our arrival at the far left, with a patio pavement! The next day was Memorial Day. We spent it getting orderly and clean. 'Towards evening, Lynn telephoned the president of the branch, who lived about twenty miles away. When Lynn came back, I said, "What did he sound like? I hope he is not the glamorous sort!"' My husband said in astonishment, "Well! What do you mean?" I recovered with, "Oh, I want him to be ordinary like me." He said with surprise, "You are not ordinary!" Which was flattery, indeed! Lynn said, "He's dropping by after Mutual to meet us!" I did not see how Lynn could watch TV so calmly after supper, knowing this touchy meeting was coming up. So much depends on a building superintendent and _ his wife getting along smoothly with the people they come among. WE HELP BUILD A CHURCH AT PAONIA The branch president turned out to be natural, sincere, and a very likable person. He told us that there was a full time carpenter available, and a good project clerk, also. These two facts were an immediate comfort! He and Lynn talked for some time about the project and possibilities, and then Lynn said, "Let's go see some of those people you mentioned, if you have the time." I did not mind being left alone, for I had told my husband to forget that he had a wife until the church was built and to make blood-brothers of. All the men with whom he would have to work, THE next day, Mr. Phillip Ellgren, who is a high councilman and a man capable of being a building superintendent himself, and my husband got the two necessary buildings on the lot. They ordered a power pole and telephone, and the next day went ahead with removing a fence and leveling the lot. There was a considerable amount of measuring to do, and some adjustment pertaining to boundary. I began to content myself by getting acquainted with my neighbors at the trailer park. The husbands all worked at the Paonia Damsite. The dam had been "building" for two years and would be finished in about five weeks; then, some of the men expected to be transferred to the Crawford Dam. A Curecanti Dam was going to be built, also. There were eight or more coal mines up the canyon which supplied work for a good many men. These coal 109 mines were in pleasant surroundings, and were not obnoxious. There were two mountain passes which would be interesting drives. Cherry, peach, apple, and pear orchards, with irrigation ditches full of running water, were all around Paonia. Not too far away were beautiful mountains. We could not have had a happier assignment! When Sunday came, we went to the meeting place. It was a back hall above a drugstore, but was not used by any other group. The meetings followed consecutively, as so often they do where members have distances to come. It was fast Sunday meeting. The saints loved their president, Brother Farnsworth, and his lovely wife and family. The meetings were especially fine. On the way home, Lynn and I agreed that we had never met a friendlier people. At four o'clock that afternoon the members met and the ground was dedicated. 'The two missionaries who were leaving said that it was possible that there would not be any more missionaries in that area until after the church was completed. Brother Farnsworth dedicated the ground in a sincere and _ reverent prayer. After the dedication, Sister Ellgren invited us over for ice cream and cherry cobbler. After much getting-acquainted talk, some colored slides were shown of a trip the family had taken to Glacier Park and to the West Coast. The evening had been most pleasurable. A feeling of great appreciation came over me for the friends we were making — helping to build a church at Paonia. Cafe Curtains Are Versatile Shirley Thulin wer is the most popular, the most decorative, the most functional, and least expensive window treatment today? There's only one answer — Cafe Curtains! Why so popular? Because they are at home in many rooms, from attic bedroom through kitchen, bath, or basement laundry room. They are decorative, because you can use your imagination and make them gay and colorful, whimsical (from comic prints as for children's rooms), sedate (as for dining rooms), and bright as sunshine for music or sewing rooms. How about functional? Cafe curtains really are! If you move a lot, they are your only answer. You can make them fit a new set of windows by raising or lowering the rod. They can cover the whole window, or three-fourths of the window, or half of the window, or only the bottom fourth if you so desire. You can have them in one, two, or three tiers. You can let them hang straight, tie them back, or part them. They do away with the need for blinds, too, and can be hung on any sturdy curtain rod. They are by far the least expensive curtains, because they can be made from inexpensive prints, from bedspreads, from unbleached muslin, from tablecloths, or, for small windows, from remnants. How to Make Plan double fullness for the width ef your window and measure the length, plus hem and facing, to estimate yardage required. Wash and press the material first, unless you are sure it won't shrink. Before making the points, make a narrow hem along both side edges and a wider hem across the bottom (figure 1). X= —— Figure 1 Make a narrow hem along both edges of the curtain, and a wider hem along the bottom. Lay the material out flat on the table and, using a paper panel the same width as the hemmed material, divide it into equal parts and draw reverse scallops three inches deep (figure 2). Now trace with a dark pencil, scallops along the unhemmed top edge of the material on the wrong side. Be sure to measure from cach point to the bottom of the material to be sure they are even Page 110 CAFE CURTAINS ARE VERSATILE 1 3 INCHES | DEEP Figure 2 Make reverse scallops three inches deep for the top of the curtain. Cut a piece of material, full width by three inches deep, for the facing. Lay this under the edge with the scallop lines, face to face, so the pencil lines show. Baste them together across the top and bottom to hold them securely, then sew by machine on pencil lines. Next cut out close to the edge around the scallops, leaving about onefourth inch seam. 'urn the piece inside out and press down with an iron along the stitching of the scallops. 'Then turn up one-fourth inch along the bottom edge of the facing, leaving a one and one-half inch hem at the deepest point, and stitch by machine (figure 3). AE oe eee ee FACING em ee meee = Figure 3 Make a facing for the scallops for the top of the curtain. If you would rather, you can cut out the points and bind them with bias tape of matching color, so the tape only shows on the wrong side. If you want them to hang especially well, press them into pleats by folding the material from each point to the bottom of the curtain (the way you used to make a paper fan when a child). This enhances the appearance and the hang of the curtain. Attach a ring to each point and hang the rings over a rod. A Legacy of Lilacs Pauline L. Jensen LL day we drove through a A stcads downpour of rain, and it was late afternoon when Martin, my husband, and I entered the town where I was born and grew to womanhood. After an absence of over twenty years, I was going back to see the house in which I'd lived so many years, and the grounds where my brother Tom and I had spent countless happy hours. The thought of this return had sustained me all day, and pushed into the background the bitterness I had felt ever since Martin had received word, a month earlier, that we were being transferred to another town. "Tl not go," I had stubbornly maintained. "We've spent ten years of backbreaking work and_hard-toget dollars making this place into exactly what we want. I can't walk away and leave it for someone else to enjoy." "We have no choice,' Martin had answered patiently. "And, this, after all, is a promotion." "But our yard," I wept, "our beautiful yard! 'The moonflowers on the garden wall, and the tamarisk below our window. How we've loved that in the early spring — the first feathery blush of the season!" I broke into fresh sobs. "These things are old-fashioned, Martin. No one else will want them. They'll tear them up and replace them with exotic plants that haven't their beauty." In the end, I'd done as I knew I would do. And now we were on Page 112 our way to the new home, with this overnight stop on the way, suggested by Martin, I was sure, in the hope that it would divert me from the grief of closing the door on a loved phase of living. I couldn't tell him how badly I needed to find something here in this little town. Something vague and unexplainable, but a something that would bolster my sagging spirits. "See anything familiar?" Martin asked, bringing me back to reality. I shook my head. The avenue we were driving along had been a lovely street with wide lawns and beautiful trees when I last saw it. Now it was lined with drive-ins, a theatre, filling stations, garages, a miniature golf course, and motels. "Here," Martin exclaimed, braking the car to a stop, "this motel looks all right, and it has a vacancy sign. How about it?" I nodded. I waited, as Martin registered, and then came back to the car for the bags. In the room, as soon as Martin had deposited a bag on the chair, I flipped the bag open and took out a pair of low-heeled shoes. I glanced at my watch. It was almost six o'clock and the rain had stopped, but the May dusk was beginning to settle down. "Do you mind, Martin," I asked, pulling on the shoes, "if I go to the old neighborhood alone? Somehow, I'd like it that way." "Of course! I understand!" and I blessed my husband for this understanding. The faces I saw as I walked along A LEGACY OF LILACS were unfamiliar. I passed the spot where the old grade school once stood. A new building, of light brick and stone had replaced it. An auditorium stood on the ground where we played baseball in the summer, and fox-and-geese in winter. My heart pounded as I approached the corner. For just beyond it was the house — our house that I'd thought of so many times in the years past. As I came in sight of it, I closed my eyes, prolonging that moment to which I had looked forward. I gasped when I opened them. The white picket fence that Tom and [ had painted, Tom Sawyer fashion, was gone, and a low redwood one stretched decorously across the front. HE house! This couldn't be the big, square, utilitarian one where I had spent so many happy hours! A long portico extended across the front, and the shuttered windows gave it a look of southern grandeur. Gone was the old bay window, my mother's delight, and instead a large picture window overlooked the front yard and garden. Not the yard and garden I had known, with zinnias, marigolds, and nasturtiums, but a clipped lawn with rose beds and sundial. My eyes burned with tears. There was nothing here to remind me of those happy years. Somehow I had expected it would look the same. I had hoped to see a collie, like old Ginger, come bounding out to meet me. There was nothing that bore evidence of the kind of living we had known. Slowly I walked past the yard, 113 searching, longing, for something familiar. I turned the corner, feeling lost, forlorn, and old. We leave a place, I thought, and someone comes who changes it beyond recognition. Nothing remains of the old. Is this, I thought with heavy heart, what will happen to our tamarisk and moonflowers? Suddenly I straightened. There was something familiar. The scent of lilacs! Lilacs, fresh-washed in the rain! I saw them, then, a long row extending full length across the back of the yard. My mother's lilacs. For it was she who had planted them and tended them until their feet were firmly rooted in the ground. I recalled the time of planting. The nimble fingers, long since stilled, had placed each shrub carefully in its appointed place. "Don't work so hard," my father had gently chided her. "If my plans work out, we'll be gone from here before those lilacs bloom, and you won't be able to enjoy them." I remembered, as if it were yesterday. My mother had laid down her trowel and looked up at him, her Scotch blue eyes twinkling. "Then I will have left a legacy of joy to others. A legacy of lilacs." Tears stung my cheeks. I seemed powerless to move from the spot where I was standing. Suddenly, a light flashed on in the kitchen and the door was flung open. A slender, dark-haired woman stood silhouetted there a moment. Then, walking lightly, she crossed the patio and, flinging wide her arms, she breathed deeply of the lilac-scented air. "Jim," she called back over her shoulder, "Jim, do come out and 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 jon me. The fragrance of these lilacs is divine." I stepped back in the shadow of a tree, and watched a tall man stroll through the door and join her. I[ saw him put his arm around her waist, and then they walked toward the lilac hedge. I felt like singing. In spite of portico, sundial, and rose garden, these people kept and loved the oldfashioned lilacs. It could well be that those who followed us would like our tamarisk and moonflowers. I turned and started running. I must hurry, hurry back to Martin. I must tell him what had _ happened, and how my heart was lightened. For we, too, had left a legacy. Not one of lilacs, but of lowly tamarisk and moonflowers, for others to enjoy! Ya Lift for Your Laundry Janet W. Breeze DRY YOUR SWEATERS ON THE LINE Beton, button, — where did it go? Next time one of those little round things with the holes in it pops off, tape it (as soon as possible) to a file card and identify its rightful owner. No more hunting for lost buttons. Kok Ok KK When washing sweaters, dry them on the line this easy and wrinkle-free way: pin two old nylon stockings to the line side by side. Cross the stockings over each other and slip through the arms of the sweater. Pin the toes of the stockings to the line. *% ok ok oe OK Fill an empty window spray bottle with water for a quick extra sprinkling while ironing. * OK KK You can carry those snowy white gloves safely in your purse if you put them in a small plastic sandwich bag. * KK Prevent the loss of baby's and children's little socks by washing them together in a closed bag. 'Oweeter the Thoughts of Love Expressed 7 Mabel Law Atkinson WEET are the thoughts of love, but sweeter the thoughts of love expressed." At different times when I have seen the lack of communication between older parents and their children, this quote has come to my mind, and I have sensed its full implication. It is easy to tell our small children of our love for them, and to kiss away the stings of their small failures; and for them, in return, to put warm little arms around our necks, shower us with kisses, and say the magic words: "I love you, Mommy," or "I love you, Daddy." But far too often the years, with their speed of living and their many outside interests, silence the utterances of such thoughts — although we still think them — and the doing of little things that endear and enrich each day's performance in the great, continuous drama of life. This was brought forcibly to my cognizance as I watched a young matron going through her mother's "things" after her death. In the "secret" drawer of her mother's desk, she found a few letters and cards which proved to be those her mother had specially cherished because they spoke her children's love to her. Among them was a page from a letter this daughter had written to her mother when but a young girl, one line of which read, "TI really do love you, Mama." 'Tears flowed freely as the daughter, herself a mother, said, "Had I only known!" I remember the day [ visited an old, old lady. She proudly showed me the card she had received that day from her son, a professor in a university, and asked me to read it aloud to her. Of course she had read it already many times, but she wanted to hear it again. So I began, "Dear Mother." Instantly she stopped me and said, "You read it wrong. He wrote, Dearest Mother." 'That one word, or rather the adding of est, meant all the world to her in affection value. I recall listening to the experience of a lovely, mature Latter-day Saint young woman whose father had recently passed away — several years after her mother had left them. In teaching her Gleaner class in the Mutual Improvement Association she said, "I shall tell you this sacred experience of mine that vou whosc parents are still living may fill their lives with joy by showing and expressing frequently your love and appreciation for them, which they yearn to hear. "One night, a week before my father's passing, I gave him his medicine and his glass of warm milk, his alcohol rub, straightened his bed, fluffed his pillow, and made him as comfortable as possible. When I said good night and asked him if there was anything else he would like, he smiled weakly and answered, "Yes, my dear, just onc more thing — a kiss,". Sweeter the thoughts of love expressed!" Page 115 Pearl Bunnel Nlewell Specializes in Knitting Sweaters and Making Hairpin al ace EARL Bunnel Newell, Orem, Utah, is mistress of many hobbies. She has made hundreds of yards of exquisite hairpin lace and many doilies of similar stitches and patterns. Her home and the homes of her relatives and friends are decorated with her handicraft. She crochets and embroiders, makes artificial flowers, footstools, wall plaques, pillow tops, and sews numerous varieties of aprons. She knits sweaters in many different patterns, and makes baby bootees and shawls. She has pieced and quilted a star quilt for each of her married grandchildren, and is busily engaged in making quilts for the cight unmarried grandchildren. Mrs. Newell is an expert gardener, and her indoor plants, including many varieties of African violets, are as lovely as her outdoor garden, where she specializes in roses. Mrs. Newell has been a visiting teacher for more than fifty years, and attends Relief Society regularly. She has pieced more than twenty-five quilts for Relief Society, and is active in all the work-meeting activities. At seventy-six, she has no plans for retirement — only plans for trying to find enough time to take care of all her regular work and all her hobbies. Signs Along the Way There are so many road signs — pointers ahead to happiness, peace, understanding, and inspiration. All can be found in the Book of Books, offered by the great Master. —Pauline M. Bell Page 116 Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 2 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh, thirty-nine, horseback riding in the Malibu Mountains of California, becomes lost. She meets Tomas Novarro, whose grandmother's house she has just rented. He owns considerable surrounding property, and other property in Mexico and Canada. Mr. Novatro talks with Nina about the newspaper account of her dismissal as a nurse's aid from the local hospital, and Nina explains the circumstance. Darkness. He held a sleeping boy in his arms. "Mr. Novarro?" Nina fell back as he strode into the living room. He placed the child gently on the couch, covered him with the silk afghan Nina kept there. He stepped back. His eyes were on the boy's sleeping face. "My son," he said heavily. "I have brought him to you." Nina stood hesitantly beside him. The boy was very small, about four, she would say, the age of Danny when he came to her. But this was no robust, raucous, demanding child. Even in sleep, he was different, frail, his hair a pale drift on the pillow, unchildlike hollows under the long lashes. "IT 1 don't understand, Mr. Novarro." Nina said. "You are to take care of him for me. His mother was killed two years ago an accident. She was riding and the horse fell into the canyon. She should not have been there at all, but she was very brave, very headstrong." Nina flung out her hands. "But you don't know me!" [asin Novarro stood in the "T have made inquiries." He leaned down to tuck the quilt closer about the boy's shoulders. "You will have none of the usual difficulties, the child does not speak, moves very seldom, asks nothing." "Asks nothing!" He said bruskly, "For a long time he has been like this. I have spent a great deal of money... Many doctors. 'They have names emotionally disturbed... Perhaps ora birth injury or " He shrugged. "We are not so far as we think from the dark ages." He sounded bitter and angry. "T'm sorry," said Nina. She was. But she had no intention of becoming involved with this unpredictable man and his problems. "It is quite impossible." Novarro said curtly, "You are in urgent need of funds. I will pay you well." Nina stepped back. "Mr. Novarro, people don't just leave their children with... With strangers." He said harshly. "I know everything I need to know about you." He took a list from his inside pocket. "Here is his doctor's name, the diet for the boy, my attorney, Manuel's phone number." He looked about the room. "You keep it very well, like she did, my grandmother.... Good things happened to me in this house." They were silent. "There are many very capable people." She had hit on a wound. He statted up undér it. Sie saitt Page 117 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 quickly, "I am tired... You cannot know how tired. I have nothing to give to anyone, not now." The child stirred and lifted the long sweeping lashes. Nina started. The boy's eyes were like his father's, the same clear gray, the same shape. The eyes regarded her blankly, without curiosity. She wondered if he saw the room, really. He looked about him without interest. Nina looked up into Tomas Novarro's face, and the naked anguish written on it shook her as nothing else had. "Very well if you like, you may leave him for a day or two. [ll see how we get along." "I am going away. You may get in touch with my attorney, or with Manuel." He moved toward the door. "I am like you emptiness." His hand swept the room. "But Iam a man and I will fill up the chasm, with work. I have a great deal of work waiting for me." He was angry, anxious to be dominant again. "I do not surrender to sterility, to brokenness that is for woman." INA said heavily. "I have told you I would take him. What is there you wish to tell me about him? What does he like to eat or do?" "T don't know. I have kept away from him. I couldn't stand the pain of waiting and wondering. I don't know." He opened the door. "You will receive an advance check in a day or so." The great door closed under his hand. Nina listened to the sound of his hard footsteps on the long patio, and the sound of them grinding gravel underfoot, the sudden roar of a car's motor. She went back to the boy. They stared at each other in silence. "It is time for bed," Nina said hesitantly. He did not answer, only waited. "Can you walk?" She took his hand, and the boy sat up. She urged him gently to his feet and led him to the small room across from her own. He went quietly. He did not seem to notice the room which held starkly enough only a narrow bed and a chest of drawers. 'The blind was up and the hibiscus bush brushed against the window. Another child would have shown fear. Joseph did not seem to know fear. Nina knelt and unlaced his shoes and drew them off. The boy's father had brought no bag with him. He would probably send it over in the morning. She unbuttoned the small shirt and helped him out of trousers and socks. She drew back the covers and motioned him into bed. He did not seem to notice the gesture. Nina lifted him onto the sheet. "Good night, Joseph." She stood in perplexity above him, then she leaned over him, thinking to show him a small tenderness. He cowered away from her, clutching the blanket to him. No sound, only the hunching of his small body in the corner of the bed and his great eyes on her face. "I didn't mean to hurt you, Joseph a kiss." His eyes shone in the half-light, his breath came quickly. Nina stood uncertainly by his bed, then she left the room. She did SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES not turn off the low lamp. In her own room she wound the clock and set it for six, undressed in the dark. It was disturbing, having the child there. She was angry and humiliated that Tomas had pried into her financial affairs. When her father was alive... When Danny was with her... It had been different. But people had a sixth sense about a woman alone. 'They seemed to know she had none to defend her. They took advantage in small, mean ways. Sometimes it was terrifying to be a woman alone in the world, in this fierce and cruel time. Was there a sound from the boy's room? Nina stood silent, listening. She moved on tiptoe across the hall. But the boy was lying where she had left him, clutching the quilt to his chest, wide-eyed and wordless. HE went back to her own bed. This was impossible! She would take him back in the morning, call the lawyer and let him come and get the child. She turned restlessly on her pillow. The wind stirred through the windows, bringing the soft whinny of Dominick, bringing the fragrance of the orange blossoms. It was life, she felt, flowing through the room, life. Life that took from one what it pleased to take and brought to her that which was far from her desire. Nina trembled under the soft quilt. What irony! She had cried out for another Danny and, instead, she had been given this sick, chained child. In the room she had the feeling that something was demanded of her, something greater than she had depth to hold. She turned on her side. She would call the lawyer in the morning, the very first thing. 119 Over the telephone, Mr. Anderson was sympathetic, but vague. No, he knew very little about the child, had never seen him, as a matter of fact. 'Tragic case. It had been a great blow to Tomas Novarro. He cleared his throat and was hearty, "A fine man, Tomas Novarro." "A fine man," said Nina acidly, "does not leave his child with a stranger." "Mr. Novarro's judgment is excellent. However, if you insist, I will get in touch with him, explain that you are unable to do the job." "Not unable," said Nina angrily, "unwilling. I that is, my life is extremely difficult at the moment. I don't feel able to cope with complications." And the child was a complication. Nina looked across the room where the child sat in the deep wing chair in the dining room. He sat silent, unmoving. It rasped on her nerves, this silence, this unchildlike passivity. Especially, since she had the impression that when she was out of the room he was different. She blew out her breath. Danny had been like a hummingbird, darting and skimming through the davs, enchanted by everything.. As soon as I am able to contact Mr. Novarro, I will get in touch with you." Nina hung up the telephone with an angry click. This was going to be one of those hurting, frustrating days. I won't do it. She went to the great door and flung it open. The boy's bags were there. A note was attached: "I rang, but you did not answer." It was signed Manuel. "Hmph! Rang indeed!" A nicker from the corral sent 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Nina in that direction. How could she keep Dominick now? She would have no time to ride. She could do nothing with the child here. She would be afraid to leave him for a moment. Even at the corral there was to be no peace. A boy of twelve or thirteen was sitting on the top bar talking to Dominick, feeding her an apple. NINA glared at him. "Who are you?) And what are you doing on my land?" She stopped. She sounded just like that Novarro man. Well why not? Why should she be the one to keep a gentle candle burning inside herself, when everyone else she met seemed determined to be ugly? The boy leaped down from the bar and came around to her. He was quick and dark, with wide white teeth and blue, alert eyes. "Gee, lady, I just came up to see Dominick. Frank told me you were going to buy her. I wanted to see what she thought about it." Nina blew the hair out of her eyes. The last thing that would charm her was whimsy. "Dominick told you she was eager for the change, no doubt?" she asked softly. He nodded. "Gosh, yes! Why shouldn't she be? What a great place to live." Nina followed his envious glance as it swept over the stretch of hills and valleys below, blue and purple and amethyst, down to the road that wound its way from the sea. "This is wilderness," the boy exploded in rapture, "pure wilderness." "Where do you live?" When she was a child she had known women with sharp tongues like this. Now she knew why, being honed as they had been on the sharp edge of days. The boy was subdued, "Down on the beach... In an apartment. It's real great... Or would be if I had a surfboard, or if Nicky would let me use his. He won't." "Who is Nicky?" "My half brother. His father gives him everything. Mine is stony broke. Isn't that my luck?" Nina said, trying to piece together the picture his words presented, "Your mother is... This is her second marriage?" "Yes, and it's almost over, and Pll bet my father won't pay three hundred and fifty a month for me, like Nicky's does. I guess I'll just keep on being a burden, until I can work, that is. I plan to work real soon, as soon as anybody will take 9? Me.' He looked crestfallen for a moment. "They say I'm_ too young." Nina said faintly, "Come in and have a glass of milk and some cookies. Shouldn't you be in school?" He gave her a quick grin. "I should, but it's the last week, and I'm flunking out anyway. You won't tell onume;..?" "T don't even know your name,' she said reasonably. The boy regarded her narrowly. Nina smoothed her skirt, at a loss to know if she should put on a forbidding air, but the sharpness of his face disarmed her. "Anyway, I wouldn't tell." E relaxed. "My name is 'Tom Benedict, and I sure would like a glass of milk and some cookies. I'm famished." He pointed to his SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES bicycle circled in the dust. "It was real steep getting up here." "T should think you would be exhausted." | He looked with unabashed love at Dominick. "I had to see her. She likes me... She really does. Dominick is a boy's name, you know. They should have named her Susie. I like Susie." "T like Dominick," Nina assured him. "You can always call her Miss Dominick, that is, if it bothers you, the name I mean." His laughter whooped on the soft air. He gave Dominick a last fervent embrace. "Good old Dominick, you don't care if I flunk out, or if I'm not as smart as my brother, do you, nice old horse?" "Tl... Pll make you a sandwich," said Nina faintly. "Better leave your bicycle there." The boy followed her to the house. He used the side lope that Danny had favored when he was half-grown. "Wipe your feet, Tom." The boy cheerfully complied. Nina opened the great door gently, not wishing to disturb the stranger child if he had fallen asleep. She stood transfixed on the threshold, her eyes riveted on the mirror in the hall. 'The mirror made visible the far corner of the living room. It showed Joseph sitting where she had left him in the far corner of the living room. On his quiet lifted wrist rested an enormous butterfly. Joseph was utterly absorbed in the lovely winged thing. He lifted the forefinger of his free hand and touched with infinite gentleness the poised wings. Nina stepped back. 121 "What's the matter?" Tom whispered. Nina shook her head for silence. She looked again into the glass, but in the brief interval the picture had changed, the butterfly now fluttered on the curtains, and the boy sat limply, his eyes on his empty hands. Nina went on tiptoe into the room. 'Tom followed, not understanding, but sensitive to the alien mood. "Joseph?" Nina leaned down to him. The child regarded her blankly. "Are you hungry, Joseph?" He did not reply. "Is he yours?" 'Tom Benedict was compassionate. Nina turned to him. She took a deep, glad breath. "Yes... He's. Mine for awhile." Tom Benedict regarded Joseph with puzzled, resentful eyes. "Lucky stiff." Tom swung out his arms. "Look at all he's got!. He doesn't have to live in an old apartment with someone who." "Tom!" He regarded her with adult eyes, strangely at variance in his young face. "You sure don't know much about things, do you?" "But Tom." "You don't know much about people either." Nina forgot to be angry. His words stopped her. I really don't, She thought. I have lived in a very small country with father and Danny and the grocery boy and the doctor and the brief bright nods at Sunday School or sacrament mecting. I don't know about people who live in this furious, feverish world. I don't know about boys. 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 whose fathers pay $350 a month and boys whose fathers pay fifty. I don't know about boys who live on beaches, or in back rooms, like Joseph. She stood very still... The forgotten children.... Could I learn? She wondered. Is it too late to. Learn? Tom Benedict ate with the innocent savagery of the young. He grinned at Nina over the tuna sandwich, "Good." She poured more milk into his glass. She was not hungry herself, and it was not yet time for Joseph's lunch. "How old are you, Tom?" "Twelve almost thirteen another ten months. I look thirteen already, don't I?" "Yes," Nina said. He did. He seemed incredibly mature to her, a cynical bystander in a wise and painful age. He tossed her word pictures of his world... Smooth, square. Cool... Old words with new meanings. His problem was, he confided, not only his extreme youth, but his ever-present poverty which prevented the acquisition of a surfboard. INA listened gravely. A surfboard, she gathered, was the status symbol of his older brother's gang... Or if I could even set a switch blade." Having controlled her horror, haying learned that the chance of Tom's acquiring this smaller badge of maturity was extremely remote, Nina, decided to treat the matter lightly. "Well, David had only a sling shot, and he made history." "David who?" "David the shepherd, the one who killed the lion with it." The boy was all ears. Heard of him." "You think you have troubles," Nina said severely, "this boy had a king hunting him, armies after him, a giant to overcome." "Giant?" His tone was skeptical, but his eyes brightened. Nina told the story of David and Goliath, heartened to see that even in this new age it had tremendous appeal. Tom paid her the supreme compliment of holding the unbitten sandwich to his mouth for the last few paragraphs. He sighed and _ resumed his lunch. There was a silence in the little kitchen. He shook his head after a time. "Wouldn't work not now." "You just don't get it, Tom. It wasn't the sling shot, actually." Tom considered. "You mean there had to be that something to "Never guide the rock or David's hand?" Nina was delighted with his astuteness. "It was his believing... His faith." Tom nodded briskly, "The positive approach... I read an article on it." Nina gently let the matter rest. Tom rose. "You got company. Car coming." He slid out of his chair and went to the window. He turned away in disappointment. "Just old Doc Jonathan." He turned to the door. "I'm leaving. The Doc's always mad at me for something. He lives by us, and he — raises orchids." He turned to the door. "Thanks for the sandwich SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES though, and I sure liked your story, but I don't think the kids would go for a sling shot... Thanks just the same." "Wait!" Nina was astonished at her own appeal, transparent in her voice. The boy paused in the doorway. He made her think of a faun, edged there in the light, with the secret 123 kinship in him for flight and hilly places. "Would... Would you like to tide Dominick for a little while?" Radiance and unbelief. "You'd let me?" "For an hour yes." A wild whoop and he was gone. The knocker sounded from the big door. Nina went to answer it. (To be continued ) <-> Words After Snow Ida Elaine James This season of white fortitude shall melt At last into a tender time of bloom, An hour less visioned than obscurely felt, After long months of chaste and frozen gloom. Insistently the heart, cloaked in despair, Scents fragrance subtle as the breath of hope, Moving through branches, pulseless yet, and bare, Over the winter's chill and empty slope. There will come beauty from this barren hour, A peril-sweet interval when children sing Beneath the dogwood's luminous ivory flower; When faith shall come to warm awakening, To roll the stone of winter's blight and doom Away at last from spring's beleaguered tomb. -~>- With Nobleness of Fleart Pauline M. Bell Oh, youth, wait not until the years shall prove the way. Seek now, with all your strength the path to joy, With nobleness of heart and love of honest toil. Why wait to mar your strength with little gain? Work cheerfully this day and find your worth. You shall not seek in vain, Fulfillment's at your feet — If you reach out and seek. FROM THE FIELD _ General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Ruth R. Reeder RAROTONGA MISSION, DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT CONVENTION Left to right: Ruth R. Reeder, President, Rarotonga Mission Relief Society; Emily Williams, Ngatangiia District Relief Society President; Tareta James (seated), President Vahua Avarua District Relief Society; Teei Oiaua, Avarua work director; Araia John Mateara, President, Arorangi District Relief Society. Sister Reeder reports: 'A one-day convention was held at the Avarua chapel, the first of its kind in the mission. Sister Reeder spoke on the theme of the convention 'Our Blessings Through Service to Others. Demonstrations on how to make jelly, | banana bread, aprons, and stocking dolls were given. A beautiful display of work done by the sisters at their work meetings was shown. It consisted of quilts, grass skirts, shell articles, knitting, applique, and embroidery work. 'New ideas, new enthusiasm, and a desire to serve well were gained from the convention." Page 124 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 + 3 hin SK Photograph submitted by Lavinia B. HE Jackson EL PASO STAKE (TEXAS) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 1961 President Lavinia B. Jackson is standing in the fourth row, at the right; chorister Barbara Jean West stands behind President Jackson in the fifth row. Organist Jenny Lawson and pianist Barbara Johnson are not in the picture. Submitted by Adelheid Post BERLIN STAKE (GERMANY) RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR THE FIRST STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE October 18, 1961 sie Photograph Adelheid Post, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society, reports: "The accompanying photograph shows the Singing Mothers of the newly organized Berlin Stake on the occasion of the first quarterly conference. Eva Marie Birth, seated at the left on the front row, directed the chorus. The visiting Authorities for this conference were President Henry D. Moyle and President Alvin R. Dyer. They were accompanied by Sister Moyle and Sister Dyer and Virginia Marsh and Janet Nielson, daughters of President and Sister Moyle. "This chorus was first organized to present the music for the organization of the Berlin Stake on September 10, 1961. Elder Delbert L. Stapley officiated at the Organization of the stake and was assisted by President Alvin R. Dyer. The sisters felt it a great privilege to be asked to participate in these two important events." 126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Photograph submitted by Uarda Conner ALASKA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION September 18, 1961, Anchorage, Alaska Front row, at the right, left to mght: Anna Peay, Counselor, Alaska Stake Relief Society; Uarda Conner, President, Alaska Stake Relief Society; Orson Millet, President, Alaska Stake; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Societv; Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Wells C. Bowen, High Councilman, Alaska Stake; Ida Stoddard, Associate Counselor, Alaska Stake Relief Society. Sister Conner reports: "This is a picture of the first Relief Society Convention of Alaska Stake. President Belle S. Spafford of the General Presidency of Relief Society, and Counselor Marianne C. Sharp were in attendance." Photograph submitted by Geraldine H. Bangerter BRAZILIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY RECEPTION AT MISSION-WIDE CONFERENCE March 16, 17, 18, 1961 Geraldine H. Bangerter, President, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, reports the varied activities and the helpful addresses and demonstrations presented at a three-day Relief Society Conference in Sao Paulo, Brazil: 'Members of Relief Society from branches as close as Pinheiros and as far away as Belo Horizonte and Aracatuba were NOTES FROM THE FIELD 127 welcomed. Sister Bangerter challenged the members to double their membership by finding lost or inactive members, and enlisting the sisters who have recently joined the Church. 'Life in the Church Is a Job in the Church' and 'Dignity in Your Calling' were subjects discussed by Gerta Kerns, Secretary, Brazilian Mission Relief Society, and Trelva Wilson, First Counselor. A look at the literature and social science courses was presented, and a consideration of the work meeting lesson plans was followed by 'A Peek at Work Meeting.' Eleven members from various parts of the mission shared their talents with everyone, in an effort to bring new ideas into the bazaars. "A one-hundred voice combined Singing Mothers chorus presented a special program on Friday night, directed by Mary Vassel. Catharina M. Abondanza accompanied at the piano. A lovely reception concluded the conference as a fitting touch to end a very successful 'Congresso' in the Brazilian Mission." RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PRESENTED WITH KOREAN DOLL June 1961 Left to right: Elder Gordon B. Hinckley of the Council of the Twelve; President Paul C. Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mission; Frances Andrus, President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society; President Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society. From his tour of the Northern Far East Mission in the spring of 1961, Elder Hinckley brought back a beautiful Korean doll dressed in red satin, made by the Relief Society sisters of Korea, and presented the doll to President Spafford during the Mission Presidents Seminar in Salt Lake City, Utah, June 26 - July 3, 1961. The doll's costume is exquisitely made, and includes a handbag and beautifully designed sandals. 128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 OE ROE SEES OKC RE AS Photograph submitted by Thelma W. Fetzer BERLIN MISSION, LEIPZIG BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR LEIPZIG DISTRICT QUARTERLY CONFERENCE October 22, 1961 i Thelma W. Fetzer, President, Berlin Mission Relief Society, reports: "You can imagine our joy at receiving this picture from behind the Iron Curtain. The music they are holding is "When Mothers Sing,' composed by Vivian P. Hoyt of Juab Stake, and translated into German by Hildegard Teuscher, a young convert now living in Hamburg. 'The sisters expressed their appreciation for this beautiful song and for the tie it signifies between them and their sisters in the outside world. This group is one of seventeen Singing Mothers choruses from the forty-five Relief Society organizations m East Germany. We are thrilled and grateful to be able to make this report." HONOLULU STAKE (HAWAII), MAKIKI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 1961 Lois W. Ohsiek, President, Honolulu Stake Relief Society, reports a successful anniversary program in the Makiki Ward: "The ward has been organized four years. Annually on this day, the Hawaiian sisters take charge and provide Hawaiian entertainment and a poi luncheon. Each year the program gets better. This year Sisters Nama- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 129 kalua and Karratti were in charge of the program. Eleven Hawaiian sisters, wearing colorful muumuus, sang and danced. Sister Golda Hyde Gordon presented the literature lesson on Ralph Waldo Emerson and made an outstanding contribution to the program. A piano solo was given by Adelaide Fernandez, who is eighty-four years young. Her music was amazing, and would have been a credit to an accomplished pianist sixty years younger. A poem to Relief Society on its 119th anniversary, written by Maggie Hill, was read by Beverly Wilson, who was dressed in pioneer costume. Maurine Deen sang her own composition 'Island Memories,' accompanying herself on the ukelele."' iis PESO MIRE Photograph submitted by Nada R. Brockbank SCOTTISH-IRISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY FLOAT MADE FOR THE LORD MAYOR'S PARADE, Belfast, Ireland, May 13, 1961 Pictured as costumed for a long trek, are: Joan Farbus; E. Gamble; E. Bruce; M. Brookes; Susan and Kay Brookes; Simone Farbus; Sally Jane Gamble; Vivian Friers. Nada R. Brockbank, President, Scottish-Irish Mission Relief Society, sends the following excerpt from the Belfast Telegraph newspaper report of this entry in the Lord Mayor's parade, titled: "It's Still Tough Going West."' "It's tough, traveling west in a covered wagon — whether you are heading for Salt Lake City or for the Ormeau Embankment. "The hazards of a journey from Dundonald were fully experienced by the Relief Society of Ireland's float which set out for the Lord Mayor's show last Saturday. Reports have just filtered through to me. "The float — a covered wagon complete with pioneer family, fire, pots, cradle, butterchurn, and two lads with rifles to ensure 'safety in the home' — was making good progress to the assembly point when disaster struck. "A wheel sheared off. With true pioneer spirit, they set about repairing it. Even though it turned out to be a major engineering task needing expert help, the wagon was soon rolling again. "But it arrived five minutes too late for the judging — and all three judges commented that they would have had no hesitation in awarding it a major prize. "It happens like that — traveling west!" Sister Brockbank reports: 'We are having good success in our missionary efforts in Ireland, thanks to our Singing Mothers, and the work and efforts of our Relief Society sisters." 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Photograph submitted by Evaletta G. Thompson UNIVERSITY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY CHORUS PRESENTS MUSIC FOR CLOSING PROGRAM May 28, 1961 Front row, left to nght: Sharon Shields, stake organist, at the piano; Carol Crist (in black dress), stake chorister; Karen McFarland; Carol Peck; Arlene Lee; Carolyn Wanlass; Joan Miles. Second row, left to right: Marilyn Conger; Grace Vlam, stake social science class leader; Maureen Clark; Pat Kimball; Carma Heywood; Donna Fullmer; Shirlene Fairbourn; Elaine Ellis. Third row, left to right: Belva Barlow, Second Counselor, University Stake Relief Society; Sylvia Janson; Karen Williams; Rosalin Anderson; Claudia Goates; Ann Jamison, Secretary, University Stake Relief Society; Shirley Hess; Emma Jean Haight; Noreen Hess; Lynne Topham. Evaletta G. Thompson, President, University Stake Relief Society, reports: "This is the first chorus organized by this stake Relief Society (stake organized in February 1960), and the two numbers presented were artfully done under the direction of Carol J. Crist, chorister, and Sharon R. Shields, pianist. 'The chorus sang 'Lift Thine Eyes' a capella, and 'Eye Hath Not Seen.' The closing program was a spiritual experience, with Lida Prince as the principal speaker. Refreshments were served in the recreation hall, which had been tastefully decorated with many bouquets of fresh flowers in yellow and lavender colors. Lovely background music was furnished by a string trio. The eighty-five young Relief Society sisters, members of the stake presidency, high council, and bishoprics who attended were richly rewarded. "The chorus is composed of young unmarried college girls and wives of students attending the University of Utah." <> Clouds By Celia Luce [° takes clouds to make a really beautiful sunset — clouds as well as sunshine. anaes. LESS N DEPARTMENT al Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 40 — Put the Kingdom of God First Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 56) For Tuesday, May 1, 1962 Objective: To emphasize the importance of taking up one's cross. HE revelations in The Doctrine and Covenants studied this year were received during a four-month period, from March through June 1831. We have learned that the law of consecration was in effect, and that people were called to repentance because of slothfulness and selfishness. 'The revelation for study in this lesson is a call to repentance to certain individuals and also to classes or groups, arising principally out of a need to live the law of consecration. (Additional background information is found in Lesson 37.) Specifically, however, Section 56 was received because of an inquiry by Thomas B. Marsh concerning his mission, due to the failure of Ezra Thayre, his companion, to perform the missionary service to which they were called by revelation. (See D&C 52:22.) With a background of rebellion on the part of Ezra Thayre, as just noted, and also because of another circumstance arising out of his failure to participate fully in the law of consecration (Ibid., 56:8-10), the Lord reminds those of his Church that his anger is kindled against the rebellious and the time will come when this class, the rebellious, "shall know mine arm and mine indignation, in the day of visitation and of wrath upon the nations" (Ibid., 56:1). Take Up Your Cross An important truth follows the Lord's statement regarding the rebellious, which emphasizes a need on the part of everyone who professes to be a follower of Christ. Our salvation is dependent upon how well we follow the Savior. He who does not do so, will not be saved in the celestial kingdom. Thus we have this truth: And he that will not take up his cross and follow me, and keep my commandments, the same shall not be saved. BePage 13] Li 74 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 hold, I, the Lord command; and he that will not obey shall be cut off in mine own due time, after I have commanded and the commandment is broken (D & C 56:2-3). As one considers the full importance of this message, he is reminded that man is free to choose good or evil. Men are responsible for the choice made according to the law under which they live. For a Latter-day Saint, as in the case of Ezra Thayre, commandments are given with promises of blessings commensurate with the law obeyed. The commandments of God are really opportunities for man to become free from barriers to attain the highest measure of salvation. When a commandment has been broken and not repented of, the Lord says that in his own due time the violator will be cut off from his kingdom. But what does it mean to take up one's cross? Instructive in answering this question is an examination of some scriptures which bear upon the meaning of the verse from this revelation. It is apparent that to take up one's cross is to follow the Savior devotedly, obediently, in service and consecration. Upon one occasion Jesus rebuked Peter by reminding him that "If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me" (Mt. 16:24). By inspiration, the Prophet Joseph Smith continued this admonition as follows: "And now for a man to take up his cross, is to deny himself all ungodliness, and every worldly lust, and keep my commandments." To be a true disciple of Christ is to follow him regardless of the cost. Freedom can come to us only by breaking the shackles of sin, of habits detrimental to eternal welfare. Is it easy to follow the Lord? The Savior knew that if man wanted to find release from the bondage of sin, he could find it by faith in him through his redeeming sacrifice for man. Are not his words as true today as when uttered centuries ago? (See Mt. 11:28-30.) The words of President Joseph Fielding Smith should give us food for thought on this question. When a man confesses that it is hard to keep the commandments of the Lord, he is making a sad confession — that he is a violator of the Gospel law. Habits are easily formed. It is just as easy to form good habits as it is to form evil ones. Of course it is not easy to tell the truth, if you have been a confirmed liar. It is not easy to be honest, if you have formed habits of dishonesty. A man finds it very difficult to pray, if he has never prayed. On the other side, when a man has always been truthful, it is a hard thing for him to lie. If he has always been honest and he does some dishonest thing, his conscience protests very loudly. He will find no peace, except in repentance. If a man has the spirit of prayer, he delights in prayer. It is easy for him to approach the Lord with assurance that his petition will be answered. The paying of tithing is not hard for the man, fully converted to the Gospel, who pays his tenth on all that he receives. So we see the Lord has given us a great truth — his yoke is easy, his burden is light if we love to do his will (The Way to Perfection, page 150). Follow the Christ During the time of Joseph Smith, the expression "to take up one's cross" was apparently not uncommon. We know that Newel Knight, a frequent attender at some of the early Church meetings, when asked to participate in prayer at these meetings, "said that he would try LESSON DEPARTMENT and take up his cross, and pray vocally during meeting" (D. H. C. 1:82). How well do we members of the Church take up our cross in accepting the responsibilities of membership and the callings that come to us in our branch, ward, or stake positions? Here is what Elder Mark FE. Petersen wrote about those who follow Christ: If we are truly to follow him, we will take his advice in which he tells us to seek first the kingdom of God. He actually meant that we should give it first place in our lives. We should have ''no other gods before him," neither should we have any habits, or tendencies, or desires, Or practices, which are given preference to our religion. In times of decision, when we must make up our minds whether to go one way or another, let us remember this requirement of the Lord for his followers — put the kingdom of God FIRST (Your Faith and You, page 142). The first miracle in the Church resulted from Newel Knight's resolution to pray. What actually happened was that his uneasiness of mind because he did not accept the invitation to pray in a meeting, created a situation where he became possessed of a devil, causing him to request deliverance by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Prophet replied: "If you know that I can, it shall be done"; and then almost unconsciously I rebuked the devil, and commanded him in the name of Jesus Christ to depart from him; when immediately Newel spoke out and said that he saw the devil leave him and vanish from his sight. This was the first miracle which was done in the Church, or by any member of it; and it was done not by man, nor by the power of man, but it was done by God, and by the power of godliness; therefore, let the honor and the praise, the dominion and 133 the glory, be ascribed to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, for ever and ever. Amen. The scene was now entirely changed, for as soon as the devil had departed from our friend, his countenance became natural, his distortions of body ceased, and almost immediately the Spirit of the Lord descended upon him, and the visions of eternity were opened to his view (D. H. C. 189). Newel Knight did take up his cross and obediently performed his duties as directed by revelation. He was told to remain with the saints of the Thompson Branch (Ohio) and lead them to Missouri. (See D & C 56:7.) Not long after the Prophet arrived in Missouri, this group, led by Brother Knight, arrived in that land. Subsequently, he served in other capacities in the Church in taking up his cross. "T, the Lord, Revoke"' In verses 4, 5, and 6 of Section 56, the Lord revokes some of the commandments which had been given previously to Thomas B. Marsh, Ezra Thayre, Selah J. Griffin, and Newel Knight, and gave them other appointments. The revocation of a commandment might seem strange to some, in view of some scriptures which indicate that the Lord is unchangeable. (See James 1:17.) In this revelation, it is stated that "Wherefore I, the Lord, command and revoke, as it seemeth me good; and all this to be answered upon the heads of the rebellious (D&C 56:4). (Read Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 322.) There is security in obeying the commandments of God. He has declared that his promises will not go unfulfilled (D & C 1:37-38), but if man rejects the law, he forfeits the 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 opportunity to have that security which is based upon obedience. (See D & C 82:10; 130:20-21.) In Section 56, Ezra Thayre was called to repentance because of his attempt to repudiate a land contract made with the Church at Thompson, Ohio, where the saints were attempting to live the law of consecration (D&C 56:8). If he did not repent, he was to be paid the amount involved for the use of the land by the saints and be cut off from the Church. (See verse 10.) The following verse in this revelation points up the necessity for all men to observe the law given or suffer the consequences. "And though the heaven and the earth pass away, these words shall not pass away, but shall be fulfilled" (verse 11). The truth thus stated is particularly important at this point in the lesson because of the discussion on the revocation of commandments. Again, when men disobey, judgment follows, unless repentance is forthcoming. Although the truth that the Lord's words shall not pass away is about Ezra Thayre, there is a universal application to all men who come within the sphere of the gospel plan. In a sense, our eternal welfare is in our hands as Latter-day Saints, but only if we keep the commandments. On the other hand, if we reject the word of the Lord, the penalty is certain. In verses 12 and 13 of the revelation, the Prophet is told that he should furnish the money to recompense Brother Thayre and payment would come to the Prophet in Missouri. 'Those who would assist Joseph Smith in defraying — this expense by their contributions would receive land in Missouri in return — "For according to that which they do they shall receive..." (verse 13). True Repentance As we have already noted in this revelation, there are truths found in it which have application to members of the Church other than those to whom the revelation was specifically directed. In reference to verse 14, it is apparent that it could be applied to all saints today, as well as in 1831: Behold, thus saith the Lord unto my people — you have many things to do and to repent of; for behold, your sins have come up unto me, and are not pardoned, because you seek to counsel in your own ways (Ibid., 14). Do these words apply to the membership of the Church today? This is a question for each Latter-day Saint to ask himself or herself, not his neighbor. There is the answer to this question on page 324 of the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary in regard to the two sons. (See Mt. 21:28-29.) In this revelation concerning the saints at Thompson, Ohio, it might be stated: "Our Lord, who told Peter, the Apostle, that he had yet to be converted (Luke 22:32), also taught the Colesville Saints [originally from Colesville, New York] that they, though members of the Church, had many things to repent of" (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 324). Of these members in Thompson who had not organized under the law of consecration, there was need for repentance since the Lord had _ not pardoned them. Their besetting sin as a group was that they sought LESSON DEPARTMENT to counsel in their own ways. Is it also true today that many Latterday Saints believe that we can use our own judgment concerning keeping the laws of God although the Lord has spoken directly against "our counsel," as we ignore his words in the revelations? "And Your Hearts Are Not Satisfied" Joy or happiness comes to the member of the Church who faithfully obeys the commandments of the Lord. There is no lasting joy for one who veers from the commandments after having tasted the fruit of the gospel. Consistent with the background of this revelation where men of wealth had not fully subscribed to the fundamentals of the law of consecration, there was reason for the following condemnation: Wo unto you rich men, that will not give your substance to the poor, for your riches will canker your souls; and_ this shall be your lamentation in the day of visitation, and of judgment, and of indignation: 'The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and my soul is not saved! (D & C 56:16) Under the perfect law designed to prepare the Lord's followers for the celestial kingdom, there would be an equality of wealth commensurate with the need of the individual and his family. It was the prophet Benjamin of The Book of Mormon who taught his followers that to retain a remission of sins it was necessary to give of one's substance to those in need. (See Mosiah 4:26.) In doing this, one is to exercise wisdom, "... For it is not requisite that a man should run faster than he has strength. And again, it is expedient that he should 135 be diligent, that thereby he might win the prize; therefore, all things must be done in order" (Ibid., verse 27). An orderly way by which members of the Church may discharge their obligations to the needy is through the organized Welfare Program of the Church. Material wealth or "riches" may canker or corrupt the soul of man. (See James 5:1-3.) The wealth of this world is not to be treasured above the wisdom of God, advised the Savior in the Sermon on the Mount. (See Mt. 6:19-21.) Wealth Evaluated What is the curse of wealth with so many people? Indulgence in the pleasures of the world, the desire for wealth giving rise to dishonest ways of obtaining wealth, and a disregard for fellow men, are but some of the possible evils of riches. It takes a strong Latter-day Saint to remain true to the faith when wealth comes his way. 'The counsel of the Savior, while in mortality and also after his resurrection, should continue to be the guiding tule to follow. It is, seek the kingdom of God first. 'The riches of this earth should be a means to an end. The only true criterion for the Latter-day Saint is to consider the things of this world from the point of view of eternity. Riches are designed for the building up of the kingdom of God and its members. All temporal possessions are the Lord's, for we are his stewards. (See D &C 104:13-17.) Wo to Rich and Poor When the Lord condemned the tich of the Thompson Branch (D & C 56:16), strong as that con- 136 demnation was, he did not censure them only, but the poor were also at fault. 'The main reasons for the failure of the United Order at this time were that many, in addition to the rich, did not give of their substance to the poor. Notice in verse 17 the number of reasons why the poor contributed to this failure: Wo unto you poor men, whose hearts are not broken, whose spirits are not contrite, and whose bellies are not satisfied, and whose hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods, whose eyes are full of greediness, and who will not labor with your own hands! Too often we associate poverty with virtue. The poor are not blessed in the sight of the Lord because they are poor. A purpose of the law of consecration was to raise the standards of those in need of temporal goods that they might more fully enjoy the spirit of the Lord. Poverty can and often does result in the sins mentioned by the Lord in this revelation. 'The Welfare Program of the Church today is intended to assist the needy in maintaining the true spirit of the gospel. The poor in this revelation are charged with desires and actions which conflict with contriteness of spirit or humility and a lack of the desire to repent. What are these sins? Their "bellies are not satisfied," with their earthly possessions; therefore, their "hands are not stayed from laying hold upon other men's goods," stealing; their "eyes are full of greediness." Covetousness, envy, jealousy, or the desire for other people's goods are not uncommon vices in the world; and, also, the Lord said they "will not labor with your [their] own hands." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 May not this be the basis for some of the poverty in the world? True happiness cannot be found in dishonesty, greediness, or laziness. Certainly, the fulness of the gospel is not lived when these sins remain a part of our makeup. Blessed Are the Poor Who are the poor, or the rich, for that matter, who are blessed? Only those who are pure in heart and who come unto Christ receive the blessings prophesied in this revelation. (See D & C 97:21.) What are the blessings for the poor who are the pure in heart?. They shall see the kingdom of God coming in power and great glory unto their deliverance; for the fatness of the earth shall be theirs" (Ibid., 56:18). Faithful Latter-day Saints, living or dead, will have the privilege of seeing the Lord come with the kingdom of heaven merging with the kingdom of God on the earth. "For behold, the Lord shall come, and his recompense shall be with him, and he shall reward every man, and the poor shall rejoice" (Ibid., verse 19). Yes, the "fatness of the earth" — its bounties — will be possessed by the pure in heart when the Savior comes, and rejoicing will be found on the earth. Those who are not counted worthy to stand in that day will be recompensed for their works of unrighteousness. (See Ibid., 29:11-13; Alma 41:3-6.) What. Shall be the final blessing for the pure in heart who have come unto Christ? And their generation shall inherit the earth from generation to generation, forever and ever (D & C 56:20). The earth in its celestialized state will be the home of those who lived: LESSON DEPARTMENT the celestial law. (See Ibid, 88:15-20.) The glories of eternity will be theirs — all knowledge, with the opportunity for endless advancement. (See Ibid., 130:7-11.) Questions for Discussion 1. What does it mean to take up one's cross? Justify your answer from the scriptures. 2. According to Elder Mark E. Petersen, 137 what does it mean to follow Christ? Be specific. 3. Tell about the first miracle performed in the Church in this dispensation, and how it is related to the objective of this lesson. 4. When does the Lord revoke a commandment? 5. What is true repentance? 6. When are the rich (in worldly goods ) under condemnation? When are the poor under condemnation? What is your understanding of the place of wealth in the gospel plan? Visiting Seacher Nlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 40 — "Continue in Steadfastness" (D & C 49:23). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 1, 1962 Objective: To show that steadfastness is one of our most important character traits. TEADFASTNESS is a character trait loved both by the Lord and by one's fellow men. It is a synonym for dependability, faithfulness, firmness in the right. It means determination in adhering to sound principles. 'Those who are steadfast are unwavering in the face of temptations and obstacles. Steadfastness is one of the primary essentials for accomplishment. Unless we have this quality we are uncertain, easily swayed, and do not possess the perseverance to follow through to the end and to accomplish those things we set out to do. Steadfastness and conviction are closely interrelated. One cannot be steadfast unless he has strong convictions to which to adhere. Applied to the gospel, steadfastness means obtaining a strong conviction or an unwavering testimony of what is right, and then having the courage and the will power to live accordingly. On his ninetieth birthday, a loving father called the members of his family together to give them the benefit of his venerable wisdom. In respect to steadfastness, his counsel to his children was: "What means most to one when life is viewed from a long perspective is the assurance that one has never surrendered when the storms of life have beaten upon his face; and that he has always stood steadfast for the right. In the battle of hfe, the capacity to fight to the last rampart is the all-essential thing (H1NcKLEy, 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 BriAnt S.: That Ye Might Have Joy, page 32) Probably the most classic example of steadfastness in the face of adversity is found in the story of Job, as told in the Old Testament. Job was an upright and honest man who feared God and was greatly loved and blessed by him. Because of his righteousness, Job had _ prospered greatly in the land. Satan taunted the Lord and claimed that Job's righteousness was due only to the fact that the Lord had given him great wealth and steadfastness. To test his servant, the Lord put everything that Job possessed in the hands of Satan. And, one by one, his possessions, his children, and even his health were taken from him. In the face of all this affliction Job remained solidly steadfast. He did not waver in his own convictions nor in his faithfulness to the Lord. He staunchly maintained, "My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit... Till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me. My Se ae I hold fast, and will not let it go. (Job 27:46). Job remained steadfast because he had an unfaltering testimony and an immovable conviction. He knew that his Redeemer lived. (See Job 19:25.) If we would build steadfastness into our lives, we must strengthen our convictions of what is night. On this foundation we will avoid uncertainty and wavering and will realize "... He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed" (James 1:6). Let us apply to our lives the message as found in the D & C 49:2 Let us "continue in steadfastness" in being good neighbors, in being kind and understanding, and in giving devoted service to others and to the Church. Indigo Gladys Hesser Burnham Blue is a summer night As sunset turns to dusk, As evening vapors waft along The rose's cloying musk; Blue is the melting snow After icy chill; As hearts that have known searing grief Yet hearken to God's will. (ork ITleeting— Attitudes and Manners (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Mecting) Discussion 8 — Hello and Goodbye Elaine Anderson Cannon For Tuesday, May 8, 1962 Objective: To encourage the development of one's best behavior. One of the most important rules as to manners is to be, for the most part, silent as to yourself. Say little or nothing about yourself, whether good, bad, or indifferent; nothing good, for that is vanity; nothing bad, for that is affectation; nothing indifferent, for that is silly (David Hume, from The Dictionary of Thoughts). GAIN, we emphasize the importance of placing oneself second to the interests and comforts of others. This time we deal with conversations, introductions, _ telephone tactics, and other situations where verbal exchange i is conducted between two or more people. 'The reminder to think of others first may seem tiresome but, if conscientiously practiced, the rules governing various forms of talking among people will be more easily followed. Dinner Conversation Formal dinner conversation is conducted by the host speaking to the lady on 'his right first and the hostess with the gentlemen. On her left. Guests will follow this example around the table. When everyone is familiar with this rule of etiquette, the conversation goes more smoothly and no one is left out. Midway through the meal the procedure is reversed and the guests, being knowledgeable in this social grace (and let us hope we all are), co-operate and shift their conversation accordingly as soon as opportune. This, of course, should not be a rigid performance, but a mental guide. One should never worry about opening the conversation with what has become known as a "cliche." Actually, mundane as they may seem, topics such as weather, the house decor, and the current news are useful openers and friendly talk can move on from there. It behooves all, however, to fill their minds with good thoughts to share with others and then take advantage of situations where conversational experience can be enjoyed. In a social conversation, always give priority to the other person's remarks by refraining from interrupting any speaker. Remember, a good listener is always a delight; however it is discourteous to both hostess and guests to remain silent and unresponsive all the time. Make every effort to show interest and enjoyment of the association, to do your share in building the conversation and adding to its pleasure. When opportune, accept the challenge by commenting or questioning intelligently, for the art of conversation is a two-way exchange. Telephone Tactics The ring of the telephone can be thrilling or chilling, depending on what you anticipate. The way you answer can cause a similar reaction— depending on how you _ sound. (Neither worry, concern, nor presPage 139 140 sure of time and problems in the home should be reflected in one's tone of voice in answering the telephone. 'To avoid this, no matter what confusion may exist when the telephone rings, just before removing the receiver, take a deep breath, and with full, even forced, composure, let your voice assume a friendly, pleasant tone. ) The telephone can be a blessing or a curse, depending on how it is used in the home. Because so much of our business, social, and even spiritual affairs are conducted over the telephone (as well as the annoying commercial calls we may receive these days), it is well to learn proper telephone procedure. One never really knows who may be on the other end of the line. Even an anonymous political canvasser, in reality, may be someone who knows you very well. So, it is wise never to be rude nor abrupt. You are judged solely by your voice and what you say on telephone exchanges, so care should be given to these points. Be careful to take messages and relay them properly. Fully identify yourself when making calls, except, perhaps, to immediate family members or very close friends with whom you have frequent contact. Your first name is not enough. The person you call may know two or three others with your same name. Using only your last name is improper, too. Rather, say "This is Susan Smith calling. May I speak with Mrs. Brown?" It is most inconsiderate to initiate a call and then ask the one who answers, "Who is this?" Rather ask "Is this such and such a number? May I speak to so and so?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 Phone calls should be limited in length. It is always thoughtful to say, "Thank you for calling" when closing the conversation. Introductions The secret to successful introductions is to remember that the person for whom respect should be shown has his or her name mentioned first. Usually, it is the woman's name. However, in the case of a Church authority or prominent civic official, his name is mentioned first. It is perfectly proper merely to say, "Mrs. Jones this is Mr. Anderson," leaving off the trite (and often confusing) "May I present?" It is less formal at a social gathering where the people are to be in each _ other's company for the evening, to say, "Mary, this is Mr. Anderson, John, this is Mrs. Jones." 'They will call each other Mr. And Mrs., however, until the woman suggests that the man may call her by her first name. The person making the introductions may follow up with a brief bit of identification about each person to help them converse more freely. For instance, one might say, "Mary is our Relief Society president. John, are you still teaching a class in Sunday School?" It is helpful to review the rules of etiquette which are meaningful today. Everyone should be mindful of undesirable tendencies or relaxations in conduct that may have crept into one's life. Any effort we put forth for self-improvement, to become more poised, gracious, gentle, or get along with others more harmoniously is indeed worthwhile. fo iterature—America's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 32 — Edgar Allan Poe — Artist of Word and Sentence (1809-1849) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 413-457) For Tuesday, May 15, 1962 Objective: To see in Poe's writings an attempt to attain perfection in literary craftsmanship and to recognize his art as an escape from his own conflicts. ARE, indeed, is the person who, upon a first reading of either Poe's poetry or prose, remains indifferent to him. From his first line, his unique word-tone music and image bring us into a realm of melancholy magic entirely his own: Ah, broken is the golden bowl! The spirit flown forever! Let the bell toll! — a saintly soul floats on the Stygian river; And, Guy De Vere, hast thou no tear? — weep now or never more! See! On yon drear and rigid bier low lies thy love, Lenore! Come! Let the burial rite be read — the funeral song be sung! — An anthem for the queenliest dead that ever died so young — A dirge for her the doubly dead in that she died so young. —"Lenore"' In both prose and poetry Poe strove solely for a unity of effect. In prose he strove to intensify horror, fear, guilt, revenge, or madness until the reader would be enabled to realize an awareness of the truth which these effects convey. His poetry achieves its own special sphere of excellence by creating the effect of melancholic, ethereal beauty, usually best conveyed through images of death and classically beautiful women who love or die majestically but forlornly. As Poe explained so meticulously in "The Philosophy of Composition," he considered each word and each image with greatest care, and chose it only when he was certain that it contributed to the total effect of the poem. While we might possibly doubt whether his most famous poem, "The Raven," actually was composed as he claimed (see text, page 457), we cannot doubt the precision of his mind after reading the following poem in which the first letter of the first line, the second letter of the second, the third letter of the third, etc., spell out the name of Frances Sargent Osgood for whom this memorable valentine was contrived: A VALENTINE For her these lines are penned, whose luminous eyes, Brightly expressive as the twins of Loeda, Shall find her own sweet name. That, - nestling, lies Upon this page, enwrapped from every reader. Search narrowly this rhyme, which holds a treasure Divine — a talisman — an amulet That must be worn at heart. Search well the measure; The words — the letters themselves. Do not forget Page 14] 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 The trivialest point, or you may lose your labor. And yet there is in this no Gordian knot Which one might not undo without a sabre, If one could merely understand the plot. Enwritten upon this page whereon are peering Such eager eyes, there lies, I say, perdu, A well-known name, oft uttered in the hearing >. Of poets, by poets; as the name is a poet's, too. Its letters, although naturally lying — Like the knight Pinto (Mendez Ferdinando) — = Still form a synonym for truth. Trying! * You will not read the riddle though you do the best you can do. Cease When such a feat is accomplished within the added disciplines of a regular metrical structure as well as an abab, cdcd, etc., rhyme scheme, we are ready to admit with no reluctance that Poe's tales of ratiocination [reasoning] were the first detective stories (and still some of the greatest). Similarly, at the time when his interest in cryptography [code deciphering] was keenest, he not only wrote ""The Gold Bug," but challenged the readers of Graham's Magazine to submit a cryptogram which he could not solve. Of the hundred received he solved all but one, and proved it to be unsolvable. When he was but twenty-one, Poe wrote a sonnet ""T'o Science" which first expressed the resentment he felt as the practical, earthly spirit of science encroached upon the contemplation of ideal beauty, which he considered to be the highest universal vision granted only to true poets: Science! True daughter of Old Time thou art! Who alterest all things with thy peering eyes. Why preyest thou thus upon the poet's heart, Vulture, whose wings are dull realities? How should he love thee? Or how deem thee wise, Who wouldst not leave him in his wandering To seek for treasure in the jewelled skies, Albeit he soared with an undaunted wing? Science is no new force, but "true daughter of Old Time." Thus the conflict between these two methods of defining reality is an ancient one and, for those who seek a higher beauty than earth can afford, inevitable. Science is of the earth, which Poe felt to be a corrupted mass, indeed a strangling, suffocating environment for the poet. Denying not only the method of science, but such "earthly" forces as emotion and even truth, the poet Poe sought to escape into the sublime realm of "ideality." Refusing to trust conventional uses of symbol or allegory, Poe hoped to attain a spiritualized beauty, "the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God." No poet ever held a grander concept of the poet's destiny than did Poe. His art became his life, for through it he found his only means of escape from the sordid realm of mediocrity. But once having given birth to so exalted a vision, the contrast between actuality and ideality became too great. Hence arose one of Poe's greatest paradoxes: repudiating in his art anything earthly and dedicating himself solely to the pursuit of another worldly beauty, he nevertheless, adopted the method of science as the means of achieving his goal. LESSON DEPARTMENT While the end of his poetic technique was a sublime, musical indefiniteness, the means for accomplishing his end was first to calculate the effect he wished to achieve within the poem, then to invent or select words whose vowel tones and combined rhythmic and tonal patterns would create the classically restrained and cold melancholy which he considered the aura of beauty. While his poetic effect could not be more romantic, Poe's method of creating was analytic, coldly aloof, and precise. In exposing the technique whereby his most famous poem, "The Raven," was put together, it is to be his design. To render it manifest that no one point in its composition is referable either to accident or intuition — that the work proceeded, step by step, to its completion with the precision and ngid consequence of a mathematical problem. Although Poe had written many years earlier that "a poem is opposed to a work of science by having for its immediate object, pleasure not truth," the point of differentiation is concerned with end, not means. Thus, in both, Poe was consistent. While for the major portion of his adult life Poe was but secondarily a poet and primarily a writer of prose, his genius in combining his poetic theory and actual writing in such poems as "To Helen," "Annabel Lee," "Ulalume," and _ especially "The Raven," prove his achievement to be unique. When read aloud, their penetration into the realms of our inner selves is unforgettable. Poe's explanation of the structure of "The Raven" (dedicated to Elizabeth Barrett Brown- 143 ng) has been discussed more widely than any other poem-analysis ever written in the English language. No equivalent exists for such lines as the final stanzas of his most successfully contrived ""The Raven": "Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting — "Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore! Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken! Leave my loneliness unbroken! — quit the bust above my door! Take thy beak = out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!' Quoth the Raven "Nevermore." And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door; And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming, And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor; And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor Shall be lifted — nevermore! (Text, page 452). Poe's Tales Nathaniel Hawthorne and Edgar Allan Poe mutually respected each other, but parallel achievements in almost simultaneously developing a form of writing — the short story (pioneered by Washington Irving) were worked out independently of each other. Both were meticulous revisers and polished craftsmen who planned their work most exactingly, then wrote to make each word, each description of person or scene, each dialogue, contribute directly to the story's central purpose. But while Hawthorne's chief concern was to fashion a complex inter-relationship of character and event which would best give life to his integrating moral insight, Poe ignored all moral issues 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 and was concerned with the over-all effect of the story. For him poetry excelled in creating beauty, while fiction best created an awareness of truth. But Poe's definition of truth is a narrow one; the "effects" which appear repeatedly in his best-known stories are horror, fear, guilt, murder, revenge, death, decay — all usually given reality through the sensory and psychological perceptions of an overly sensitive, morbidly self-conscious central character or narrator. Each story is created to bring about those effects of character, mood, and tone, which either lead to the destruction or the decay of the obsessed central character. Thus, in reverse pattern from his poetry, tirelessly Poe made peace with the actual physical world which had so trapped him and ignored him, by destroying it symbolically. In these explorations of his own subconscious mind, Poe leads us beneath the peaceful surface of man's nature. He explores the possibility of actions of persons obsessed with some driving, even wild passion, as in "The Tell-Tale Heart," "The Black Cat,' and, more important, in "The Fall of the House of Usher" and "Ligeia." A close parallel is ""The Masque of the Red Death," an allegory representing the terrors which Poe saw in a diseased society ordinarily concealed beneath the luxurious trappings and frivolous pastimes of our masked, concealed lives. "The Fall of the House of Usher" In 1839, Poe wrote "William Wilson," a story which directly influenced Stevenson's "Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde," and Oscar Wilde's "Picture of Dorian Gray." In "William Wilson," Poe states most plainly the dual nature which, in greater or lesser degree, mortal man exemplifies. In "The Fall of the House of Usher" (text, pp. 416-424), young Roderick's own inner apprehensions and final decay and death are symbolized in two other "selves": his twin sister Madeleine, and the ancestral house itself, which, at the story's end, sinks "slowly and sullenly" beneath the waters of the "deep and dank tarn" which surrounded it. In this gloomy, intense study of selfdestruction, we see, perhaps, the best-known example of Poe's futile yet powerfully detailed desire to escape the inherited corruptions of the past, only to succumb, finally, to the grimly triumphant specter of the here-and-now. Always in Poe's stories there is the fleeing, the plunging (as in "Descent Into the Maelstrom'), the maddened desire to escape; it is in the ethereal beauty of the poems that fulfillment comes. Thus the two complement each other. From the first words of the story, Poe's skill at creating the effect he desired is almost oppressively evident: During the whole of a dull, dark, and soundless day in the autumn of the year, when the clouds hung oppressively low in the heavens, I had been passing alone, on horseback, through a singularly dreary tract of country; and at length found myself, as the shades of the evening drew on, within view of the melancholy House of Usher. I know not how it was — but, with the first glimpse of the building, a sense of insufferable gloom pervaded my spirit. I say insufferable; for the feeling was unrelieved by any of that half-pleasurable, because poetic, sentiment with which the mind usually receives even the LESSON DEPARTMENT sternest natural images of the desolate or terrible. I looked upon the scene before me — upon the mere house, and the simple landscape features of the domain, upon the bleak walls, upon the vacant eye-like windows, upon a few rank sedges, and upon a few white trunks of decayed trees — with an utter depression of soul which I can compare to no earthly sensation more properly than to the after-dream of the reveller upon opium: the bitter lapse into everyday life, the hideous dropping off of the veil. There was an iciness, a sinking, a sickening of the heart, an unredeemed dreariness of thought which no goading of the imagination could torture into aught of the sublime. What was it — I paused to think — what was it that so unnerved me in the contemplation of the House of Usher? It was a mystery all insoluble (Text, page 416). The "eye-like windows" and the "unredeemed dreariness of thought" parallel similar qualities in Roderick and prepare us for his entrance, just as the description of his twin sister symbolizes his own malady and prepares us for their simultaneous deaths. But it is Roderick himself who totals within himself all the evils of the house, the dying sister, and the evils of the inherited past. "The Gold Bug" "The Gold Bug," an example of Poe's more objective short stories, is a tale of buried treasure and cryptography. The setting is on Sullivan's Island, near Charleston, South Carolina, where Poe spent a dreary winter of army assignment. Legends 145 of pirates combined with Poe's flair for solving ciphers make this story, written some years later, one of intense fascination. Poe made full use of the haunted sand dunes and the lonely seascape to produce an eerie atmosphere for this tale of mystery. Some literary critics, considering Poe as one of the few great innovators in American literature, credit him with inventing (as much as one person ever invents a species) the detective story, and with introducing the adolescent adventure tale. Such favorable literary criticism states not only that French symbolism, with its emphasis on the suggestiveness of music, began when French poets accepted Poe's logical formula for a poem, but also that Poe's influence upon popular literature has been great. Regardless of Poe's life, motives, or history, the greatest contribution he has made to American literature is his complete dedication to his art and the resulting power of his page to absorb the reader with another glimpse into the mysteries and fascinations of the human heart, as it quavers and throbs through mortality. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does "The Raven" conform to Poe's "Theory of Composition'? 2. Illustrate Poe's word-tone music with examples from his poetry. 3. What were Poe's contributions to literature? com Secaneo=aililite Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan Women and Church Activity Lesson 7 — Fullness of Life and Exaltation Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Tuesday, May 22, 1962 Objective: To stress the importance of obedience to law in attaining the blessing of exaltation and to summarize woman's place in the gospel plan. The goal of the L. D. S. Family is to "... Bring to its members such lives as will enable them to return to the inner circles of that celestial home from which they came, — a dwelling with the Heavenly Father and Mother throughout the eternities"' (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., 808). "T, the Lord, Am Bound When Ye. Do What I Say." BEDIENCE to the commandments of God is prerequisite to all the blessings promised to mankind. In Section 130 of The Doctrine and Covenants, verses 20-21, we read: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated. There are many promises in the scripture to the "chosen people," but in each case to realize the blessings they must hear the word of the Lord, know his mind and will, and apply it in their lives. Marriage is a command of God. We are forcefully reminded by revelation that there is a particular kind of marriage (temple marriage) for us if we would receive the fulness of his blessings. 'The privilege of going to the temple to be martied is dependent upon conformity to the highest standards of human behavior, such as living the law of Page 146 The Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page chastity, which is purity in body and mind; and possessing a firm testimony of the divinity of Christ and his gospel plan. It would seem that right living prepares the way for divine guidance in our lives. Also, that assistance or blessings do not come to us without a concerted effort on our part. 'There are two verses, 18 and 19, of Section 130 of The Doctrine and Covenants that should be quoted: Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. Then, our attention is called to the fact that blessings are all predicated upon the fulfillment of the law. This is an appeal to the intelligence of men and women and the use of intelligence to the realization of their greatest possibilities. The Lord is willing to help where intelligent effort is made. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fulness of Life Essential to Exaltation Any person building a house will set down some specific plans according to which he hopes to achieve the objective. The more important the physical structure and the more costly, the more detailed and elaborate the plans and the blueprints. This, then, gives direction to the structure. 'There may be necessary changes and adjustments but, in general, the house will be like the plans. Wi5uth good plans and good artisans, together with carefully selected material, it becomes an actuality. It will be no better than the planning, the craftsmen, and the material used to make it. 'This is, to some degree, analogous to the process of developing a successful family and qualifying for the blessing of eternal life. The big task comes in training and developing the personality under divine principles. 'There is the never-ending responsibility of developing self-control, unselfishness, and in making adjustments to the ever-changing relationships of personalities in a house. It is the difficult task of developing the technique of "we" and "our" in meeting problems and satisfying needs; the maturing of like interests into common interests through the sharing of common experiences in every phase of life; in general, it is reducing to a minimum the basic differences and increasing the individual capacity of making adjustment to each other. Nothing worthwhile is attained without personal effort. We don't find perfection, we make it. In ideal family relations there is no substitute for the art of adjustment which depends upon the maturity of the 147 individuals, which, in turn, is dependent upon a life developed from good, wholesome living. To the couple who have lived fifty years together, through hardships and success, sharing in full the realization of their religious ideals and goals, there is an important significance of "'at-one-ness' referred to in the idea of "one flesh," quoted in 'The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 49, verse 16. 'They have not only become sure of each other, but have become so much a part of each other through their sharing, working, planning, and adjusting that certainly, to them, there is full realization of the "at-oneness" idea. 'This "at-one-ness" is the product of successful living together. It is a growing feeling of indispensableness, knowing no end. The above type of experience is an explanation of how the Lord can be bound. The blessing is theirs in the full realization of each other's value. It is the value of good living expressed in a degree of perfection. The harmony of their lives together is the preparation for eternal marriage. The plan of life and salvation might be compared to a magnificent organ with all the perfection in sound known to the skill of organ makers. If a baby presses the keys one may get squeaks, discords, and chaos, so far as music ls concerned. A person with a few organ lessons and a little knowledge of music can produce limited harmony and melody. The true value of the organ and its possibilities to make beautiful music increase as the knowledge, training, and artistry of the player increase. So when the truly great organist plays upon the same instru- 148 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 ment, there is a full expression of the tone quality and harmony, and the great possibilities of the organ are fully realized. So with life, particularly with married life. In the wisdom of the Creator, each individual has the potential greatness that can only be fully realized in successful marriage. It can be enriched by knowing what to do and doing it. 'The instructions are thorough and complete from the great Designer. In this way God is bound. He has defined the rules or life and _ life eternal, pointing out the way to accomplish them. If we apply these principles, the results cannot fail, the promised blessings are ours. The degree of success varies with our individual capacities to understand and to do. The Eternal Nature of Marriage As the statement at the opening of this lesson by President Clark points out, the goal of the family is so to organize the lives of the members that they return to their Heavenly Parents for eternity. 'This statement implies the importance of the here and now. The blessings of the everlasting covenant of marriage are not all for the next world. In reality the blessings and promises of the next world cannot be attained unless we are living the laws here. Man is that he might have joy here and now, and have it more abundantly. The whole program of the Church is to insure its members a rich, full life. If this is attained here, then the promises of eternity have real meaning. There are blessings in store for all who keep his commandments. From the writings of President Joseph Fielding Smith, special encouragement is given to the righteous women of the Church. He says: Now, just one more thought. You good sisters, who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the Gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord, and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now, the Lord will make it up, and you shall be blessed — for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld, and He is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help ("Elijah, the Prophet and his Mission," Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, January 1921, page 20). The promise of the future life is glorious beyond our power to understand. "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him" (I Cor. 2:9). Summary 1. The Eminence of Woman As a summary of the first two lessons, may we point out that, like man, woman is a creation of God. She was given as a helpmate of man in a partnership responsibility for subduing and populating the earth. In the plan of creation, God gave to woman a place of exceptional eminence. 'The importance of the responsibility given her complements the assignment given to man. Marriage is ordained of God. In fact, it is vital to the fulfillment of the plan of life and salvation. The fulness of the Priesthood can only LESSON DEPARTMENT be attained through successful temple marriage. 'This places woman in a most strategic position — a position of honor, glory, and vital importance, and with all this, is the responsibility of being a successful partner. There is in the relationship a unique element of equality, meaning evenly balanced or proportioned; having competent powers, ability, or means. While Adam was designated as the mouthpiece of God, Eve was designated as the mother of men. This set up a balance and a division of responsibility which provides a basis for sound family organization. Only with her can man obtain exaltation in the celestial kingdom. 'Truly, she is the leading lady in the drama of life. She holds equal responsibilities for the accomplishment of the purpose of life, "to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Together, and only together, can the full realization of the destiny of the human family be achieved. 2. Service, the Mission of Motherhood Childbearing is a woman's unique service. Providing a clean, healthy body and a sound mind are most essential; however, being well-born is far more inclusive. It is being born into a home and family where the parents are qualified to provide healthy stimulation to the growth and development of each child spiritually, intellectually, and temporally., As the mother exercises judgment, wisdom, and care in selection of food for her family, she must also use judgment, wisdom, and care in selecting the spiritual and mental 149 stimulation of her family. So also must the greatest care be used in providing and directing the social contacts of the child. The major part of a mother's service is developing the child's judgment so he can learn to choose for himself. Child development is the constant challenge of the mother. Discipline is bringing one's mental powers under control] and directing them into useful channels. The ideals, values, and objectives of the society in which one lives can, through discipline and obedience, become a part of the child in infancy and remain for life. The person who is most free is the one who knows the law and obeys it. Moral values represent the wisdom of time-tested behavior; moral values represent the best judgment of man in tune with the mind and will of God. 'There is and must be for us a divine tone in the moral values of our society. Homemaking is largely the creativeness of the mother. It is, in reality, a joint father and mother responsibility, yet it is the artistry, personality, and industry of the mother that predominate. Besides the beauty of the physical setting, she is responsible for the things in her home and elsewhere that stimulate the mind and spirit of her children. What they, the children, read, think, hear, and see, they become. To meet her challenge, mother must be constantly alert to her own mental stimulation. Her personal improvement helps in the direction of the children and, eventually prepares her with interests and expressions of her talents which can fill her life when the family is gone. 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1962 ("Qe omen ee SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES _—— COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen -..20 _—— GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner.30 _—_ GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen.25 a. IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 —< IN THY FORM — Madsen.20 — LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens -20 =. LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgor._ 2. 2.2. 25 ae. LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER — ee.20 ea LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.20 _. OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 atte THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert.25 Music Sent on Approval l l! I 1 I I I I! | l | | | I | | — INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25! | | I | | | | |! I l l I |! | I | I | Use this advertisement as your order blank | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY; 15 £. Lst South | Salt Lake City 11, Utah iJ \ \! \ Please send the music indicated above. | 1) On Approval [] Charge / (J Money Enclosed 1 \ y 1 ' t \ MILLIALILAIL he 15 E. Lst South | 'Salt Lake City 11, Utah | eS ee 3. Women and Church Activity In every successful pioneering movement women have played a most important part. Without the anchorage of home and family many major projects would have failed. From the beginning of 'The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the leadership has recognized the important place of women and organized them for more important and effective expression. Women are vital to the successful functioning of the Church auxiliary organizations; they are a major influence in the family; and, without them, the fulness of the Priesthood blessings cannot be realized in this world nor throughout eternity. As the Church has grown older, the Relief Society has grown to meet the expanding demands of the women and the need of sympathetic understanding by all the members of the Church. By answering the calls of the Priesthood, the women have successfully participated in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church. Their service extends to missionary, temple, and genealogical work. The activity of the women in the Church program is a manifestation of dedication to a great cause. The blessings in store for the women of the Church are limited only by the degree of effort they put forth to build the kingdom. Every blessing of the Priesthood is open to the faithful woman. If she works and lives according to directions given her in the gospel plan, her happiness and the happiness of her family are assured. 'Time, conditions, and the wisdom of God will secure the promised blessings for righteousness. LESSON DEPARTMENT Thoughts for Discussion 1. How important to happiness in daily life is the law of obedience? Z. How important are thinking and planning to a successful marriage? 3. What is the relationship of the fulness of the gospel plan to joy and happiness in the here and now? 4. How does the promise of happiness in the gospel plan refer to the next world? <-> Po rtratt Rose Thomas Graham Great-grandmother wore a wig As white as snow. Why should she cover soft brown hair, I'd like to know? A tiny patch of black Beside her chin Made all the fairer my Great-grandma's skin. Her silk lace shawl was fastened With a brooch. A footman helped great-grandma To her coach. 151 Ask about our Special Hawaiian Tour for June 'Tour includes four islands. Scenic Northwestern Including World's Fair, departing June 30, 1962. Hill Cumorah Pageant Tour Leaving July 30th. For further information regarding your travel please write or call! MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 HU 5-2444 AM 2-2337 Sirethorn in February Eva Willes Wangsgaard Winter's not sad. Winter's all aglow With moon-fired stars in the crisping snow And deep underneath May has started to grow. Listen a moment and you may hear The blades uncurling, each growth-wise spear Which multiplies green for a whole year. Winter's a shiny white valentine With a sparkling, glittering lace design, A bold, sharp curve on a warm heartline. You can't see the heart, but you can trace The red, red drops that drip on the lace From firethorn's wounds to earth's secret place. Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. Isapora LYMAN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-six Mrs. EvizaBetH JANE TayLor McENTIRE Rexburg, Idaho Mes. Exviza JANE Witcox SPARKS Los Angeles, California Ninety-five Mrs. Cora SIDWELL BUTLER Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Batty SMITH Randolph, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. CaRoOuinE PRATT KinG PRINGLE Midvale, Utah Mrs. Mary CAROLINE MorTENSEN CROWTHER Manassa, Colorado Mrs. SarAu Ev1zABETH BROWN WILLIAMS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. FLORENCE JANE ALEXANDER CuRTIS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. Carrit VictortA Boyp STEWARD Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Estuer Ricxs LINForpD Logan, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Rose Etta HA Jacksonville, Florida Mrs. EMELINE BiIncHAM Woop Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. Juxia Lottie Brim Bacu Oakley, Idaho Mrs. SaraAH ARTHUR NELSON Cedar City, Utah Page 152 Mrs. EMMA SLADE CARROLL Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Epitu Hitton CHENEY San Leandro, California Ninety Mrs. Mae Harrison SMITH Springville, Utah Mrs. CHARLOTTE Witson NICHOLS Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Grace Gates GRIFFIN Springfield, Missouri Mrs. Mary M. Hickerson WaADLEY Pleasant Grove, Utah Mrs. EMMA OTTESEN HALVERSON Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Otive Louise Harris VINCENT Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Loretta JOHNSON Oakland, California Mrs. Jonannan M. Sorenson PETERSON" Logan, Utah Mrs. CHARLOTTE WIiLson NICHOLAS Salt Lake City, Utah > Little Brown Curls Evelyn Fjeldsted The shawl around her baby's head. Enclosed her like a little tent. We looked into the tiny gap, That only mothers can invent. Her mother raised her toward the light. "Her hair is curly, too," she said, "See here on top it curls the most." And then she tucked her into bed. She smiled a bit and yawned, then dozed; Her mouth was like a pink bud closed. The mother was so young — she touched Her baby's curls with loving care. Yet, we saw only straight brown hair. To us, curls were invisible. — e BEAUTIFUL © HANDY °e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in - The Mountain West's Please include postage according to table listed to be mailed. Distance trom Mexican Tour Leaving early March Mexico City, Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Shorter trip, World's Fair leaving Salt Lake City, Utah Rate: Up to 150 miles secsseseee 035 middle of June 44 to ae is seteeeeeeemeeeccceeecee.. 'a to milessecec core. @ 600 to 1000 miles an 4 Ask about our Alaska and 1000 to 1400 mj CS oe, F ill h M400 to 1800 miles 16 Hill Cumorah Tours Over 1800 miles.87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown Office, ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Deser el N ews P r ess Salt Lake City 3° Utah Phone EMpire 4-258] Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9.8954 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Gd or Bazaars — Gifts _ Handicratt Days— LOOKING FOR NEW IDEAS? YOU'LL FIND THEM AT ZIM' THE BEST IN HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES — ESTABLISHED 1932 SEND FOR OuR LATEST CATALOG — FREE V Lowest Prices V Largest Stocks AND INSTRUCTIONS, FOAM AND TOTE BAGS, V Most Variety V Newest Ideas TRANSFER PENCILS, ALL FLOWER SUPPLIES, POPSICLE STICKS —EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS Wholesale to Dealers — Discounts to Groups Z / 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City, Utah | Second Class Postage Pai | at Salt Lake City, Utah | | LNS|-E &b-165-41450 SEP 62 1. CONTINUING THE QUEST HUGH B. BRO. President Brown is an uncommon man who speaks dynam Timely ically, frankly, and with magnificent fervor. He reads the way, too, and here is a new collection of sixty-eight selection and (Conference Addresses, radio speeches, writings, etc) by Pres: 4 dent Brown with wide appeal to all ages — drawn from a ric Chalienging full life — that challenges, offers warmth and comfort, giv LD 5 real and solid hope to all who are sincerely searching a seeking. 534 pages. | $3.9 Selections 2. PIONEER THEATRE IN THE DESERT ILA FISHER MAUGHA: In early March the Pioneer Memorial Theatre on the Unive sity of Utah campus will be dedicated. Exactly a hundre years prior to this dedicatory date the old SALT LAK THEATRE first opened its doors. Be sure to read this unusu and colorful account on the old Salt Lake Theatre, the Soci Hall, and about all theatricals throughout Utah in the ear days — the dramas and comedies, performers, etc. Rare, wir usual photos highlight this' absorbing book. $2.5 WRaR RNA) t Weaaevaa Deseret "Book (0. 44 East South Temple Sali Lake city, Utah ° Deseret Book Company Z 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah: Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find [_] check [_] money z order [_]I have an account. Please charge. Amount: enclosed for encircled (numbered) books:: I 2 3: Name 0 ° Addvess -----1 F ere'..,.. Laie Se. Eee 4 Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. 
