Where Love Abideth Alice Whitson Norton N the corner of Gay Street and Mulberry Avenue, as strangely out of place as a bird of paradise on the public market of any thriving city, was a flower shop. A small affair it was, but so bright were its windows, so spotless the inside, and so genial were the elderly couple that ran it, that one thought of the little shop in big proportions. It had caught my attention the first time I had passed by on a small, dinky streetcar that ran out on Gay Street to a substantial residential district, and somehow no matter how often passed, I rarely failed to cast a glance at the little shop. One day when I happened to be driving in, I stopped and bought a few flowers from the old couple running the place, and after that I was a frequent customer. On that first day I learned the elderly couple were depending on that little shop for a living, and earning a living at their age was not such an easy task when one grows one's own flowers. They hadn't intended this to happen when the little shop and the bright garden were first started. Oh, no! When the shop and garden were started there had been two sturdy boys with willing hands to do the manual labor of growing. 'Then came World War I and the sturdy young men went bravely marching off, each with a carnation in his buttonhole—and that was the picture the parents held of their sons. When their names appeared Page 522 among the missing after a bloody battle on the Argonne front, the owners of the small shop found comfort for their wounded hearts in the earth that produced the blossoms and the little shop through which they marketed their wares. They made no outcry against fate, nor did they go about with long, sad faces. Their loyal sons had gone West in a great cause and the shop owners must carry on. For years they were up with the dawn, planting and hoeing, clipping and arranging the bright bouquets for the little shop; and far into the night a light could be seen moving over the fertile garden plot back of the small shop. But there came a day when I missed the old couple, and. Curiosity, mixed with genuine interest, prompted me to stop for flowers when I really didn't need them. The "Missus" was sick, a new keeper told me—terribly sick. There were no funds to hire a nurse, so the old man had stayed at home to look after her, and this new man had taken over the shop. As time went by the little shop began to lose its brightness; the windows became dingy, the flowers wilted in their holders, and the customers in the habit of dropping by for their fresh bouquets began buying elsewhere, and finally one morning I looked out of the trolley window and discovered the door was closed, and on it a placard, "For Rent." WHERE LOVE ABIDETH HAT rent sign stirred my heart and set my feet in action, and a few hours later I was knocking on the door of the little house in front of a sadly neglected flower garden several blocks from the little shop. I knew by old Tolly's face that things were in a bad way when he opened the door for me, but he smiled as bravely as a soldier under fire. "Don't tell her," he warned, with a motion toward the room housing his invalid wife, "that the shop is closed. It would break her heart— and I couldn't stand that—" I nodded an agreement and followed the man into a dark room. "This is not my idea of living, Miss Ellen,' Mrs. 'Tolly murmured faintly, "but I have been very ill with fever and it's settled in my eyes. I may become blind—and—" her voice faltered slightly, "I—may never walk again." "Oh, but she speaks so foolish," chuckled the old man. "It is only a matter of time before she will see and walk again, and why. Should she worry, with the little flower shop moving along so fine?" "She shouldn't worry," I comforted, pondering in my heart at the loyalty of the aged man. "Somehow, some way," he continued, "old Tolly will manage to grow and sell flowers, and care for the Missus." I felt a calloused hand clasp mine and looked down upon the tightly bandaged eyes of Tolly's wife. ~"Where love abjdeth, Miss Ellen," she said softly, "faith can work miracles. My husband has always been like that. His faith is great, and his love is wonderful. 523 Fifty years," she went on, "we have lived together, working side by side, in unity of thought and purpose— now—I am sick and he is carrying the whole burden." "A man," I managed to say, "is supposed to be the stronger of the species, and I am sure Mr. Tolly will find a way to carry on and provide for you." "Only with flowers," she answered calmly, "can my Tolly earn a decent living for us, and I'm so glad he still has the little shop. Be sure to keep the windows bright, Tolly," she added whimsically. A few weeks later I learned that Mrs. 'Tolly would never walk again, C but her eyesight would be restored. That was something we had scarcely