Just a Housewife!"' Winifred N. Jones FELT I would explode. If I heard just one more woman on just one more radio program say just one more time, "I'm just a housewife!" She did! Why must women insist on being apologetic about being a housewife— or, if you prefer, homemaker? Practically every woman spends most of her first twenty-five years trying to become a wife and housekeeper and then immediately starts feeling sorry for herself because she has what she wanted! Any woman who is a good homemaker has nothing on earth for which to apologize. She must furnish hard work, intelligence, ingenuity, and an unlimited amount of patience for the job. Successful homemaking can and will give a woman enormous satisfaction if she will bring to it the same time, attention, and interest a job outside of her home would demand of her. This belittling attitude so many women adopt toward homemaking breeds the very things that make it unattractive for them, carelessness and inefficiency and monotony and drudgery to household tasks. In contrast, the woman who keeps her home in shipshape order has time for activities that will keep her mentally alert and stimulated. She doesn't always have left-over jobs to do! The woman who opens a can of soup or puts together a tasteless sandwich at lunchtime for herself and children can't help feeling that cooking is a bore. But the lady of Page 540 the house who prides herself on always setting an attractive and appetizing meal on the table enjoys doing it. Women are not honest with themselves about this thing. They spend time daydreaming about being a big cog in an exciting office, when, in truth, they would probably be very small wheels in very monotonous jobs. A woman who wears houseslippers most of the day in her home frets about how ting her housework is. How long does she think those tenderized feet would last holding her up behind a counter all day! Has the woman who moans about the trial of having to wash dishes three times a day ever worked in a bindery where they handle thousands of identical sheets of paper over and over and over? Doesn't the woman who complains about her husband's desire to stay home evening after evening ever recall that the reason she married him was "'so we can be alone together'? It's up to her to make that time together as interesting now as it was then! She can— if she will insist on bringing attractiveness into: her home. HEAR women saying it can't be done on limited budgets. Nonsense. Of course having plentv to do with helps, but a little imagination and hard work pay higher home dividends. Let her forget what. Her neighbor has or has not in her house. After all, she and her family must live in theirs! Adjust JUST A HOUSEWIFE the home necessities to the desires of the family. That's the strongest long-range standard. It is usually the woman who complains about a lack of clothes who remarks in the next breath, "IT never sew. It bores me." She is also the woman who doesn't realize that the most expensive clothes anil those selected by "best-dressed" women are those that are individually tailored, not those turned out by the hundreds in factories. This same attitude is reflected in her relationship with her children. Picnics, parties, family reading hours, and established Christmas traditions are absent from the home of the woman who whines, "The children nearly wear me out!" 541 Women will argue that society doesn't expect every man to be a doctor, lawyer, or ditch-digger, but expects every woman to be a good homemaker. Very well, but society also expects every man to give his time, energy, and devotion to his job. Should less be expected of a woman? She chose to be a housewife! The woman who fails at being a homemaker and dreams of an exciting and successful career as a business woman fails to recognize that routine, application to detail, and performing an unpleasant job are also essential to a business career. She also forgets that she is working C for, and with the man whom she selected to be her companion in the building of an eternal home. Jo Carol On the Death of Her Mother Margaret B. Shomaker If words could pierce sorrow's brittle pain And touch the weeping heart, to ease its grief, My trembling lips would sing a sweet refrain In hope the tone would bring you sure relief. Then I would take a splinter from the moon And lead you from this sorrow, dark as night, To where the lips and heart caress a tune And tired eyes tum with courage to the light. But from my lips only a muted cry; Held in my heart the tone of silent song, Caught like a bird in prison from the sky. Please let me hold your hand in silence strong, For unsaid words will vibrate sorrow's air And you will understand my wordless prayer. The Washstand—1950 Versiant Kathryn Jane Collins IXTY years or so ago, when there was no hot water rushing from the tap at the turn of a handle, a small washstand with a pitcher and bowl standing on top was a prominent feature of almost every bedroom. At the washstand you scrubbed and polished yourself! Today, these very same wash- 'stands, when refinished in a simple and inexpensive way, add charm and beauty to our homes. These small, low chests of drawers are very versatile and can be used in many ways. Usually, they have one long drawer across the top and the lower part of the washstand is divided into two sections, one side with a door and the other side with two smaller drawers. The wood is usually solid. The ones I have seen have been made of walnut, oak, maple, or cherry. Since these washstands were so common, probably way back in your basement or hidden in your attic under all those things that such places usually collect. Maybe you have an aunt or a cousin who has one. If these sources fail, perhaps the secondhand store might have one. With a mirror hung. Above the washstand to give you a glimpse of yourself or to give your guests a chance to straighten their ties and fix that wayw washstand makes a hall inviting. You can use one in the dining room as a useful server and store silver in the drawers and tall vases Page 542 you have one. Ard lock, the You will need rags and an old paint brush, which can be thrown away in the cabinet section. An excellent bedside table can be made from one, or an extra chest of drawers for all those things that seem to collect. For the lady who sews, it is just the place for all her sewing supplies. We use ours for a radio cabinet. After removing the old varnish, I found the top to be a lovely piece of burl-grained maple. I removed the door panel and replaced it with a piece of ordinary wire lathe, the kind used in plastering. First, I gilded it, and the result is an attractive grilled door. The radio speaker will be hidden behind this grill, which will have a piece of tapestry tacked to the back. We plan to cut off the front panel from the upper small drawer and hinge it to pull down and expose the dials. The bottom drawer will hold the radio chassis and tubes. To refinish one of these pieces is very simple. First remove any hardware and examine it carefully before discarding it. A little paint remover used on the hardware may reveal beautiful old brass handles and knobs. If not, you can purchase very nice copies of antique hardware at the store. Before beginning the refinishing, protect your hands with gloves and protect the floor with newspapers. After the work is completed. Begin by removing the drawers and placing the washstand on its THE WASHSTAND—1950 VERSION back so that the front is horizontal with the floor. Spread paint remover on generously with the brush and let it stand until the surface begins to crack. Then, working with the grain, use a putty knife or some similar object to remove the old paint or varnish. Get into the corners and flutings. Then do the top, and the sides. 'Try to have each section in a horizontal position when applying the paint remover so that. It will not run off. After all the old — finish is off, apply another coat and wipe off thoroughly with rags. Then wipe all the surfaces with alcohol to remove any wax left by the paint remover. Sand any surfaces with the grain of the wood. You may find that the whole - piece needs staining. If you wish to stain it be sure to try 'dipped in benzine. Rough - 543 samples of your stain in an inconspicuous corner before applying it all over. After some searching, I found a mahogany stain in the lovely dark purple tones one finds in good furniture. Stain the piece and let it dry thoroughly. Now you are ready for the final step. 'There are several ways to finish off the washstand. You can varnish the surface, then rub down with pumice and oil. To remove excess pumice, wipe with a cloth Then polish with a chamois. Or the waxed finish may appeal to you. Wax thoroughly; rub with steel wool and then with a chamois. Let this stand for a week; then wax and rub down again. Continue until the piece has a lovely patina. I myself prefer the oil finish. This finish takes much wear, will not scratch as varnish does, and brings out the grain of the wood. For it I mix two parts of linseed oil with one part of turpentine and bring to a boil. 'Then cool and, with a soft cloth, apply to a small section, rubbing it in well for five to twenty minutes on each section. When you finish, the wood should be dry and unable to absorb more. 'Do not let the oil remain on top in a sticky film. Rub always with the grain of the wood. Then wait a week and apply more. In another week, apply still more. Four or five applications should give the finish you want. By now, the washstand, with glowing handles and a beautiful, mellow patina, is ready for a new and useful life. You will be greatly repaid for the small amount of time you have spent. She (Best Sime of Your Life | Ezra J. Poulsen 4 you were asked the question, "What was