LESSON 4 Social Service Fourth Week in November PERSONALITY StTuDY: THE PsyCHOLOGY OF PERSUASION Based on Influencing Human Behavior, pages 28-70 In these lessons we are using the term "personality" rather frequently.

Just what meaning do we have in mind when we use this much over-worked expression?

To realize how loosely the term is used ask a few of your friends just what they mean when they speak of a person as having such or such a personality.

Is personality, for example, largely a matter of perfume and cosmetics?

How much, if any, is it a matter of making use of what we sometimes call "policy" or of being able to prevaricate gracefully?

To what extent is one's personality stable so that it may be justly described in the same terms on different days or years?

The writer was one of a group who, at one time, at least assented to the description of a certain educator as having a "rotten personality" and then later with no less malice he agreed with others who believed that this same individual could attribute his wonderful success very largely to his "splendid personality." Again, another individual was referred to in the writer's presence as having a "cheap, drug-store, tin-whistle personality," and within a week this same person was described in his hearing as having the "most outstanding and sparkling" personality of any one of about fifteen hundred college students.

Do we not need to understand better what psychologists are thinking of when they write or speak about "personality?". Carr says: "The term 'self' is generally employed to characterize an individual from the standpoint of his reactive disposition.

We also speak of an individual's personality when we wish to refer to all those traits and  characteristics of his self that make or mar his efficiency in dealing with other individuals, while the term 'mind' is used when we wish to characterize an individual from the standpoint of his intellectual characteristics and potentialities." Thus we see that personality is not just some mysterious "it" which one simply either has or does not have and which is something beyond one's power to achieve.

On the other hand it is largely a matter of habits, attitudes and ideals.

To improve one's personality in this wholesome and sobering sense of the word is not only our privilege but our responsibility.

In this connection reread the quotation from Dean Woodward in last month's Magazine.

In this same spirit, Dr. Chamberlin writes: "Persons, not things, represent the only true values.

The enhancement of personality is the one proper end of our living and striving." (See Life and Philosophy of W. H. Chamberlin, pages 129 and 182.) If these lessons really serve their purpose, we shall all have increased our understanding and control of our own behavior as well as that of other people.

We shall be better equipped to bring about desirable changes in ourselves as well as in our associatgs.

So much by way of again striking the keynote of the course.

The immediate lesson for consideration is based on our text, pages 28 to 70. First we have a rather interesting and clear discussion of some of our fundamental human wants and then follows another short chapter on the tools with which we may make things vivid in communicating our ideas to our friends.

In connection with pages 30-32, consider the quotation from Dewey given in Poulson's Human Nature, pages 49-50, On the prob- 175. Lem of human "instincts" compare the text, page 37, with Poulson, pages 160-161, or West and Skinner—Psychology in Social and Religious work, chapter 8. In.

Relation to page 39, consider this extract from Swift: "(People) rarely do the best of which they are capable.

They grow to the smallest dimensions of their job and then stop.

They do not make a little job into a big one.

The reason for this, we have seen.

Is racial indolence.

No more effort is expended in a piece of work than is required to produce a satisfactory result; and 'satisfactory' is a variable quantity. * * * So true is it that man is satisfied with the results which meet the lowest requirements of a situation that this human characteristic may be called the tendency to minimum effort.

It is, therefore, of supreme importance that young men and women, during their adaptive period be associated with those whose standards of achieve- ~ ment are high—who stimulate to continuous effort.

Toward better efficiency." Compare these sentiments with those given in Poulson's Human Nature, pages 171, 175. Do you not agree with President Emeritus Brimhall when he says, ''We need someone to keep us at our best?" In relation to the "violent shouting," "angry scolding" and "direful remindings" mentioned on page 45 of the text, it would be well to reconsider problem number six of our last lesson.

Is this not important enough to have emphasized again?

Supplementary References Poulson—Human Nature (Teacher Training Text 1927-28) pages 18-24, 31-39, 49-50, 160-161, 171, West and Skinner—Psychology GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER for Religious and Social Workers, pages 95-113, 245-262. Further Problems for Discussion 1. Compare Carr's definition of personality with other defintions you are able to find. 2. Bagby says that traits of personality are "essentially * * * products of the training and the experience through which the individual has passed, especially in the early stages of his development." What things about this statement are especially hopeful and encouraging even to adults?

Are our personalities still in the making?

What are some of the first steps for us to take so as not to "allow our personalities to shrivel up and cease growing?" 3. Describe in picturesque words the.

"pouring in" technique and the "technique of duty" mentioned by Overstreet.

Contrast these with the more modern type of persuasion which first arouses "in the other person an eager want." 4, Mention several of our dependable and powerful human wants of which we are ordinarily conscious.

Mention some that are far more subtle and relatively unconscious and yet very powerful. 517 5. Show that the perstiasiveness of the first advertisement quoted on page 51 depends upon how well it induces "vivid imagined experiences" on the part of the reader.

Relate a recent instance where you made effective use of what our author calls the "secret of all true persuasion." 6. If you are marking your book as suggested in last month's Magazine, what sentence would you mark with double or treble lines on pages 57 to 63 inclusive?

Comment on your selection and compare with sentences which appealed most to other members of the class. 7. Are you becoming more interested in personality problems?

How much more worthwhile it is to make actual observations of human nature and to try to influence the behavior of our associates in some of the ways we are learning about than to merely content ourselves with the parroting or verbalizing of the phrases in our lessons!

Do you notice too much concern on the part of the members of the class with mere words and phrases?

Contrast as well as you can these two methods of trying to understand and influence human behavior.

A Lullaby Song By Elsie E. Barrett There's a Lullaby Song 'tween the daylight and dark, Ever crooning the babies to sleep; Lady Button-eyes sees from the sheltering trees, As she lovingly takes a sly peep.

She is ready to waft her calm spell o'er each babe When ashe beckons some smiles lurking near As she fashions sweet dreams from the moon's dainty beams— Now she's creeping and c-r-e-e-p-i-n-g—I hear— Just a faint lisping sigh from a baby's pink lips; Lady Button-eyes, smiling and wise, Need no longer delay, so she tiptoes away Just to button all dear baby eyes.

The Three Graces Happiness Why not be cheerful Out of life cull; Gather the pleasant, Cast forth the dull.

Why not be hopeful?

All is not ill; Vainly they dream that happiness is found And measured out like tallow by the pound.

While others madly climb the path of fame, Decked in fine purple sit in chairs of state And thus invite but stinging darts of fate.

Time will fulfill.

Why not be friendly Some are worth while; Men crucify themselves beneath the lonely sky With undried eyes—while all the world goes by.? Alas!

For vanity, Alas' for those who seek, 'Wresting by force what only gods may lend Give them a smile.

As though this precious gift was some rare toy, Cheer, hope, and triendship, A splendid show, an object to be sought Cost not a dime; And bartered as a bauble that is bought.

Mellow life's footsteps, Make life divine.

Smooth out the pathway, Vanquish a sigh; Yet certainly is happiness but mind, Commanded by the soul, the heart's desire That burns within as some clear vestal fire.

Flaming as bright in beggar as in prince, Come, give a try!

Nor all of Croeses' wealth add to its years.

Calendula: Who sits there beside the wall Clad in raiment yellow,! Through the summer and the fall In the sunshine mellow?

Slim her stem and stout her waist, Green her underpinning, Golden frills about her laced In a way that's winning.

Sweet, pert, quaint, bright marigold— Ever bravely shining, Would your light my heart might fold In its deepest lining! —Josephine Spencer.

By Henry F. Kirkham?

Light follows darkness, Downcast and helpless, Your days are fleeting; By Henry F. Kirkham Some men strive mightly for outward gain, Still yet again in sackcloth and in ash, And quest afar to find the rainbow's end.

One may not quench it by a flood of tears Plant This Fall Bulbs, Shrubs, Trees Fall is the only time to plant HYACINTHS, TULIPS, DAFFODILS, IRIS.

Ete. —and in most places we recommend Fall Planting of all hardy shrubs— ROSES, TREES & PERENNIALS For complete information write for our new Free Fall Bulb & Nursery Catalog It tells how, what and when PORTER-WALTON CO.

Seed and Nursery Specialists Salt Lake City, Utah MANY WALK Thousands of careful, thoughtful, economizing people walk to our store and carry their foods home daily in order to save.

Others pay out car fare to come to our store for their eats.

And save money in the _ bargain.

Make a trip to our store soon and you'll see why so many people go to a lot of trouble in order to shop here.

O. P SKAGGS €fficient Service FOOD MRR e703 STORES "A Surety of Purity" Cottonwood Stake Maternity Home Under the direction of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society.

Graduate nurses in attendance.

Hospital service and home-like atmosphere. 404 E. 56th So.

Tel.

Murray 476 Sesgo MILK J Puddings Pies" Custards Creams Rival At All Grocer's When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Relief Society Women