[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | May | Issue: 17 | Title: LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Sister Frances Smith. Continued by]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the semi-monthly meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
March 10th, 1894, Counselor Elizabeth
Webb presiding. Meeting opened by
singing, “Arise, O Glorious Zion.” Prayer
by Sister Frances Smith. Continued by
singing, “O, Say What is Truth.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved.
	Counselor Webb: Let us think of the
blessings we enjoy here in Zion. Here we
have our glorious Temple which has been
dedicated to the living God. Spoke of
“Christian Science,” the many they were
drawing to them. We know that their
foundation is a sandy one, also that we are
built upon the rock, let our lives and good
works bear testimony of this truth. Satan
will pass off twenty truths perhaps to one
lie, yet that one will destroy all the truth
he has told. Think of the words of the
Savior, he said, love one another. Let us
build up the kingdom of God.
	Sister Mary Silver spoke of the General
Relief Society who had given employment
to poor women, making comforters and
rugs, thought they had done much good;
some of the comforters were for sale, stated
their quality and price, and called on the
sisters to purchase some if they could. Ad-
ded that she was thankful that she was a
Latter-day Saint. Thought we should be
careful of our words and our influence, for
we will be held responsible for the same.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said, sickness was
often sanctified to us, knew how it had been
when we have been healed by the laying on
of hands God expects us to arise and
testify to it. He likes us to tell of his
goodness. God bless you all my sisters.
Made other good remarks.
	Sister Morris told the sisters to bear their
trials and not let their children know of
them, keep them as much as possible to
themselves. Sister Paul bore an excellent
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, spoke
of those in our midst who had been healed by
other means than the laying on of hands.
She had seen some healed, and some die,
although the same means were used.
Sisters be not deceived, let us cling to the
truth. I know we are built on the rock, and
I have seen the signs follow as promised.
Sisters Forsythe and Reid each bore
testimonies to the truth of the Gospel and
earnestly desired to be faithfnl. Spoke of
the Relief Society doing good to the poor.
Sister Aird bore testimony, and said “The
Kingdom of God or nothing for me.”
	Sister S. E. Brown and M. Brown each
spoke well, and encouraged the sisters. A
sister in the congregation bore an excellent
testimony. Sister Irvine thought all should
worship God as they desired, but warned
the sisters to look well to themselves, and
serve the true and living God. Thought

[Column 2]
the most of those who turned away from
the Church had never possessed much
faith, the seed had fallen in stony places,
and when other influences were brought to
bear, it withered up because it had not
much root.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of the power of
the adversary, how often he deceived those
who were not on the watch tower. Let us
study our own religion, and live near to
God. Let us shun the paths where many
have backslidden and pray for God’s help
to be true and faithful. Counselor Webb
made a few closing remarks. Sister Alder
read a note from President M. I. Horne
stating she was not able to meet with us
today and announcing the Quarterly Con-
ference.

	MINUTES of the semi-monthly meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
April 21st, 1894.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Jesus the
Giver.” Prayer by Sister Julia Pack.
Continued by singing, “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.”
	President M. I. Horne presiding
Minutes of the First Ward Primary were
read by the secretary.
	President Horne said there were some
sisters present who have been healed by
the laying on of hands in faith, and she
wished to hear from them, encouraged the
sisters to bear testimony, for the Savior had
promised to testify before his Father of
those who bore testimony of him.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of her labors
in the Temple, and bore testimony of many
wonderful healings through prayer and
faith of the brethren and sisters in the
Temple. “This is a world of trial and
trouble to prepare us for a better existence.
The Prophet Joseph said it would take a
thousand years to perform the work for the
dead, so let us press on, doing good and no
hurt. I pray that we may be prepared to
meet those who have gone on.”
	Sister Mary Ann Hyde, President of the
Sanpete Stake of the Relief Society said,
“I make it a point never to refuse anything
I am called upon to do. I have a diffidence
in speaking. We do not live as near the
Lord as we should, so that we may enjoy
the gifts. I have been in the church about
fifty years; and I was taught the principle
of plural marriage by the Prophet Joseph
himself, so I know it is true, and I have
lived in that order nearly as many years as
I have been in the Church. I honor it, and
feel that great blessings are in store for
those honorable ones who have lived in it,”
spoke also of her hip being injured years
ago. After coming to the hospital, the
many doctors pronounced her case hopeless,
that she could never walk again. Said she
went on crutches for a long time, but
through prayer and laying on of hands,
and the power of the priesthood, she could
walk as well now as ever she could.
	Counselor E. Stevenson stated that she
had been at Grantsville, so that she had not
attended the last meeting, “the brethren and
sisters there were so anxious to attend the
meetings, coming sometimes twelve miles
in a wagon, yet, look at the empty benches
here today. It is true the nearer the church
the farther from God?”
	Sister Delamare spoke on the fulfillment
of prophecy, as seen in gathering hosts at
Washington, and bore excellent testimony.
Sisters Baubrick, Morris and Frances Smith
each bore instructive testimonies, and
Louie Stevenson and Sister Bregher.

[Column 3]
	President M. I. Horne said “I have 
enjoyed the testimonies of the sisters. If
we have had lessons to learn, let us culti-
vate our gifts and learn them. God desires
us to do this and then we will know for
ourselves. We should have revelation for
our own guidance. The Lord will heal if
we seek for faith. It is a day to seek unto
God. Look at the promised signs, showing
great events at no distant day. But the
Lord will be sought after and then
He will bless us, and save us from the great
calamities that have commenced in the
world. You come here for spiritual food
sisters, and I pray that we may all be faith-
ful and true. Sister Lizzie Shipp announced
a lecture to ladies for the following week,
and a class to commence the first Monday
in May on obstetrics.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang,
“Satan’s empire long has flourished.”
Benediction.
				LYDIA D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


