[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A SLEIGH RIDE. | Author: Unknown]

A SLEIGH RIDE.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	I wonder if it would not interest you to get
a glimpse of this north country by going with
us, in the senses, for a sleigh ride this bright
winter's day. Come—try the elixir of the
keen fresh air and the accompaniment of the
merry jingle jingle of the bells.
	Here we go through the streets of the little


[Column 1]
town and it don't take many minutes to pass
the houses and enter the woods. The horses
are as exhilerated as we are, and they canter
on at a great pace, making the snow fly in our
faces; the desire to laugh is irresistible, and
peal after peal echoes down the road—now we
are passing through an avenue of trees of such 
great size and height, I'll not make you stare
by guessing even how many hundred feet high
some of them are; but how close and straight
they grow, like sentinels guarding the forests
from the ruthless hand of man; but, ah! they
are not strong enough for that, even in their
might, for see—here comes the wood-chopper
his ax over his shoulder, and his sharp eye
marking the highest and mightiest monarch
of the forest, on which to show his skill, and
here we are in sight of a "clarin" made by his
brawny arms; there is his little cabin with the
smoke curling gracefully up from the chimney,
into the pure clear air. How funny the
stumps look, capped with "Tam o' shanters" of
snow, some rakishly careering over on one side,
in a 'tipsey stuck up style, as though they were
badly cut up, or more properly speaking, cut
down. Here we are, in sight of the loveliest
green grove of pines, and such a pretty bit of
valley with the river winding through, and all
about us mountains; mountains of green, some
just silvered with "the beautiful," while in the
distance some o'ertopping all covered with the
pines which stand like sheeted ghosts; their
tips just catch the sun's rays, and are crowned
with the delicate roseate glow that artists
strive in vain to duplicate. Now we are near-
ing another patch of woods and only the rosy
clouds that hang above that mountain, hold
the glow of the sunshine.  How dim and silent
is this forest; no sign of life save that we bring; 
but, O, the picture! How beautiful. See, how
the undergrowth of young trees and shrubs
are covered with filmy veils of lace. Verily
Jack Frost thou art a dazzling genius; no lace 
webs that Royal Trosseaux can show, can com-
pare with the intricate, delicate patterns here.
Doesn't it look as if we might lift the frost
from that young pine, as easily as the veil from
the face of a blushing bride!
	Still we race on. Ah—here is indeed a de-
serted village; but not of the Goldsmith type.
The low log cabins stand with doors hospitably
open, yet no sign of  life, within or without.
Look at that queer sign, the letters formed of
quartz specimens, "Assay Office," is it? It
must have been some artistic chap who held
forth there. No ruddy glow comes forth from
the cavernous depths of yon black-smith
shop door, nor sound of music from the silent
anvil. O, look! a covey of partridges just
ahead; what pretty creatures, and so odd with
their bright top-knots.  Well, well; here are
the remnants of the once flourishing mining
town of Eagle—a corner grocery, a saloon
with hotel attachments, a cottage here and
there, that looks as though inhabited. Three
men with pipes in their mouths and hands in
their pockets, staring in a suprised way at
our appearance; several yelping dogs surround
us as we stop for an instant, and some forlorn
chickens are huddled under the edge of the
saloon porch, and a still forlorner woman
peering through the window, are the only life
to be seen.
	Crack the whip—and away we go, for the
snow is like glass and the road in fine condi-
tion. Here we are now, at the garden beds of
our valley, where they raise the finest straw-
berries in the world for size and flavor, and
"praties" which, while we deprecate ther size,
as poor old Mike said "they're maley Major,
ain't they maley, though?"
	Here we are at "Old Mikes" cabin, where he
was found some weeks back by some men, sick
and alone, too far gone for the care and help
they brought him to town for, poor old chap,
he was quite a character and had "foine
dhrames" as he once told us of visiting once

[Column 2]
more his native bantry. Let us hope his
'dhrames' are sweet where he quietly sleeps on
the hill-side under the deep snow. But while
I've been moralizing; we have entered a dense
forest again, and the sun shining through the
snow laden branches, dazzles our eyes with
the glitter of nature's diamonds. At length
we have reached the turning point—here is the
saw-mill; now, pray be careful Mr. Driver, and
don't upset us in that snow bank; now wait for
one moment and let us look about and take in
long inspirations of this delicious air, so 
freighted with balsamic odors and health;
think of spruce gum and be happy; look at the
great logs and see what lovely grains those cedar
planks show. Hurry on, for it won't do to let
the horses get cool now, so we must face the
wind and away on the homeward stretch.
Surely it is raining as we come out of the
depths of the timber, but no; we are only
passing through the clouds which are resting
in the little valley. The horses seem to scorn
"terra firma," and fairly fly, now they turn
toward home, one instant we are in among the
trees, where the light grows dim and then
dazzled with the lights on the snow. Tuck
the furs closer around you; how quickly we
came over that stretch of road past the "Gold-
en King Mill" and the long line of flume.
Through the last bit of woods and here is
"Sunset Peak" showing his snow-crowned
summit with the last rays of the setting sun
hanging like a halo round his hoary head.
Again the streets of the town and the warm
glow of the fire seen through the windows of
the cottage on "Gold Hill."
	Why, I hardly knew I was cold; yet the
thought of a warm fire is most agreeable and
such an appetite as I have brought back for
dinner; may good digestion wait on it, is all I
ask. Certainly our cheeks are rosier and our
spirits lighter for the ride. I hope it has been
a pleasant one for you.
	WOODINA.
	Murray, Idaho. Jan. 25, 1889.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y.  L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the St. Joseph Stake of Zion convened
at Thatcher, November 31st, 1888, President
Willmirth East presiding. On the stand, of
the Stake authorities, Prest. Christopher Lay-
ton and Counselors. Meeting opened by sing-
ing, "Once more we come before Thee, Lord."
Prayer offered by Patriarch Philemon Merrill.
Minutes of previous conference read and ap-
proved; also the Stake and local reports.
	After the presidents had reported their
various wards, Bro Merrill, by request, gave a
brief report of the St. David Society, there be-
ing no lady representative of that ward
present.
	Coun. Mary L. Ransome spoke a short time
on the duties of mothers in training their
children in the principles of the Gospel. "We
should be more diligent in teaching them to
attend the Primaries,” etc.
	Meeting adjourned till 2. p.m. Benediction
by Coun. Wm. Johnson.	
	Afternoon session: Opened with singing and
prayer. Prest. East said: “It is the manifesta-
tions of the power of God that has gathered
us from the nations of the earth, and it is left
with us to be subject to the priesthood of God
that is placed upon the earth to guide us; it is
only the faithful that will stand the tests, etc;
it is therefore necessary that we seek diligently
for the Spirit of God to lead us in the paths of
right and rectitude. I am proud to represent
the women of Zion, and pray that I may ever
be found faithful in the performance of my
duties.”
	The Stake and local officers were pre-
[Column 2]
sented before the conference and sustained.
Prest. C. Layton and Patriarch Merrill occu-
pied the remainder of the afternoon, instruc-
ting the sisters in their various duties; were
pleased to know that the poor were cared for;
wished the different branches of the Society to
lend all the aid they could in assisting the
Indian missionaries in their labors. Among
other remarks said: "We should be humble
and prayerful at all times, that we may wield
an influence for good over our husbands and
sons. We are left to ourselves, and in conse-
quence of this, many are flaunting in the pomp
and pride of the world; it is therefore necessary
that we seek diligently to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may gain an inheritance
in His kingdom.”		
	The presidents of the various branches were
instructed to keep on hand material for cloth-
ing the dead. 
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Benediction by Bishop John Taylor.
