THE GRAIL OF THE FIELDS. Maud Baggarley. With heads down-cast the horses stood Beside the fragrant upturned sod;  In some dim way I knew life good, Desirable, and beautiful, and felt the peace of God. And as I dreamed The brooding spirit of the fields Unto me spoke — Submerged, or sleeping, instinct woke — I looked upon a world illumed: The sky is blue — that breath of eglantine is sweet — IYon peach tree's flame is like the morn! cried And gazed in ecstasy — a soul new born. The sea-gulls from the Great Salt Lake That wheeled and circled in my wake, As they were ever wont to do The whole of every seeding season through;  The joy song of the lark (that thrilled my heart) Pure, true and clear, As if an angel winging near Forgot himself and trilled a note or two Of a triumphal song For high omnipotence to hear;  Each common half-seen, half-heard thing Seemed fraught with a significance divine;  For I had looked upon the grail of the fields — The old fields, the dreary fields — transfigured and sublime! Jemies H. Anderson. The United States now has a population of 105,000,000 souls according to the census of 1920. Bubonic plague has appeared in Mexico, and precautions are being taken to keep it out of the United States. The International Woman's Suffrage Alliance convened in Geneva, Switzerland, on June 6. Mexico has called elections for Augustand September 5, after which further troubles are likely to arise. Mrs. Reed Smoot, wife of Senator Smoot, returned from Washington, D. C, on June 24;  her health has improved of late. Los Angeles, Cal., was the scene of a sharp earthquake on June 20. Only one life was lost, but there was heavy damage to property. Wool prices in Utah dropped heavily during June, owing to the Federal Reserve Bank system restricting loans on wool. Famine is increasing in Asia and Europe this season, with a prospect of affecting the United States in 1921. Turkey refused in June to sign the peace treaty, and fighting was resumed, though on a small scale at present. Congress changed its mind from deciding, in April, on a recess for the summer, and adjourned on June 5. 
 President Wilson, on May 27, vetoed the congressional resolution repealing wartime laws, hence the country is still under their operation. Italy experienced serious revolts among the population the last week in June, with a prospect of vital government changes in the near future. Ireland had bloody and numerous riots and conflicts in June, with little present prospect of a return to orderly government. Zionists in Palestine have agreed to establish a Jewish assembly at Jerusalem, and to permit Jews to migrate to the Holy Land at not to exceed 3,000 per month. Railway employes in the eastern United States made frequent threats during June, of strikes for further increased wages, but only a few of the strikes materialized. Missionaries from the "Mormon" Church were again admitted freely to the British Isles on June 14, through the efforts of Senator Smoot of Utah. The Mutual Improvement Associations conferences at Salt Lake City on June 11, 12, and 13, were the most largely attended of any the organizations have held. Jews in Palestine propose to make a national holiday of April 24, the date when Palestine was formally given over to the British mandate by the entente allies. A French scientist claims to have discovered that the Bible was written by a woman. She seems to have made a fairly good job in ancient history. The Northern Baptists, comprising those of that denomination in the United States, withdrew from the inter-church movement in June, owing to its expense. An Armenian mandate, requested by President Wilson, was refused by Congress in June. It would have required a vast army of American troops to have applied it. Women pickets at Washington, D. C, so misconducted themselves at the British embassy there, that the United