HOME AFFAIRS.

	A Most Happy Union. - Sister Eliza R.
Snow is one whom all delight to honor; and by
her uniform life of uncompromising integrity,
her labors of love and duty, she has earned
all the regard that is continually offered to her
On Jan 2lst she attained the age of 75 years,
and her sisters, with Mrs. Margaret P. Young
at their head, inaugurated a surprise party in
her honor. The large parlor of the Lion House
with its adjoining suite of rooms were thrown
open for the reception of the visitors, and every
part was filled by the large assembly. At 7
o’clock supper was announced, when the com-
pany adjourned to the dining room, where an
elegant table was spread with every luxury
needed for the reception and enjoyment of the
guests.
	Among the company were President John
Tayior and his wife, President Joseph Young
Presidents Franklin D. Richards and Angus
M. Cannon and wives. After returning to the
drawing room, addresses were offered by the
above named gentleman and several others;
several ladies also oflered addresses; music and
singing intervened, and some appropriate toasts
were given. Sister Snow then arose to express
her rich appreciation of all that had been


done and said in her honor; her feelings well-
nigh overcame her, but with that noble self-
command for which she is proverbial she soon
regained her wanted equanimity, and ex-
pressed herself most feelingly and with every
appreciation.  The company did not separate
till a late hour, each one  feeling it was indeed
"the communion of Saints."  All was love
and peace and harmony throughout the entire
evening - a time long to be remembered, or,
rather, never to ne forgotten.  God bless Sister
Snow, and may her future time be her pastime
a million times magnified.	H.T.K.
	THE LATEST local attraction of a dramatic
and musical character, and unique novelty in
the way of home productions, is the musical
burletta "THE LOVES OF WOLFENSTEIN,"
written by Messrs. O.F. and H.G. Whitney,
two young gentlemen of this city.  The piece
was composed especially for, and adapted to
the ability of the children of the 18th Ward
Sunday School, by whom it has been performed
twice with great success in the Social Hall, to
large and appreciative audiences.  The plot is
quite interesting, the language well chosen,
the dialogie being sprightly, witty, and bris-
tling with puns and local hits.  The music for
most part was selected from the leading operas
of the day; with this exception the production
is entirely original.  The corps of petite per-
formers in their portrayal of the various char-
acters transcended all expectation, and dis-
played a precocity of talent seldom found in
children of such tender years!  Mr. O. F.
Whitney  as conductor, and they and all
connected with the performance have good
reason to feel gratified at the decided success
attending their initial effort.
	ON THE 26th of Jan. the Seventeenth Ward
Sunday School held a Quarterly Review.  An
examination of the different classes was given,
to which great credit is due both on the part of
the teachers and scholars.  These, intermin-
gled with songs, readings and recitations, made
the afternon's performance very interesting to
the audience, which was not few in number;
and displayed talent and study on the part of
the performers.


