CONTINUED.

	Eugene, whose temperament though re-
served was enthusiastic, and whose rever-
ential admiration of his father's character
had already taken deep root in such a dis-
position, learning this fact, determined on
recovering so precious a relic. Though
only fourteen, he presented himself with
boldness and address at the Levee of the
Commander-in-chief, requesting the restora-
tion of his father's sword. The counte-
nance and frank bearing of the boy pleased
the young soldier, who immediately, with
his own hand, restored the object of filial
solicitude. Kissing the sword, Eugene
thanked him with a flood of grateful tears,
calling him his indulgent benefactor—and
all this in a manner so simple and touching
that General Bonaparte was charmed with
his behavior.
	On the morrow Madame de Beauharnais
called at the Hotel of Head-quarters to
thank the General for his condescension to
her son. Bonaparte returned the visit; he
was a man of fastidious taste, but was at
once charmed with the graceful manner of
Josephine, and from that time a friendship
sprang up between them that never ceased
but with their lives.
	Napoleon and Josephine were married
March 9th, 1790, by the revolutionary forms
at that time in force. Twelve days after
he set out for Italy, as Commander-in-chief
of the Republican armies in that country.
His numerous letters to her during this re-
markable campaign breathe the most ro-
mantic passion, expressed in the most ar-
dent language. During his absence she led
a life of seclusion, devoted to the education
of her children; she was the most loving
mother, and her children returned her love
with affection and obedience.
	In this brief memoir only the veriest
outline of her eventful life can be given.

[Column 2]

Napoleon was now rapidly rising to the re-
markable eminence which he at last at-
tained,and Josephine and her children rose,
of course in the same ratio; he was ever
watchful over their promotion and interests
as though they had been his own children,
and Josephine ever spoke of his goodness
to them with the warmest gratitude. Na-
poleon rose from General to First Consul,
and at last Emperor of France, and among
his first acts he raised Eugene and Hortense
to titles of royalty; and in future days the
former was made Viceroy of Italy, and the
latter became Queen of Holland by marry-
ing Napoleon's brother, Louis, whom he
had made King of Holland. Eugene sub-
sequently married the Princess Royal of
Bavaria, which proved a most happy alli-
ance. At this time Josephine had attained
the acme of human happiness and grand-
eur—"the sharer of one of the most
splendid European thrones, beloved by the
wonderful man who had placed her there,
adored by the French nation, and respected
even by enemies." Her children occupied
stations second only to her own, and a pros-
pect that they would succeed to Empire
when death should relax the giant grasp
that now swayed the sceptre. It was a
cruel disappointment to Napoleon and Jo-
sephine that they had no child to inherit
their throne. The first child of Hortense
was remarkably beautiful and very intelli-
gent; he was named Napoleon Charles.
Napoleon loved him with intense affection,
and gave many assurances that he should
be his heir! But "man proposes and God
disposes"—death seized this child of so
many hopes and prayers at the age of five
years, to the great sorrow of all his family.
Before the birth of this child Napoleon had
named Eugene as his heir, repeatedly say-
ing he was worthy of a crown. Josephine
felt disconsolate, for she began to feel the
dark destiny that was approaching her, even
in her exalted position, which the life of
this child would have averted. The second
child of Hortense was to be the child of
destiny—this grandson of Josephine, Louis
Napoleon, in after years became Emperor
of France, whose eventful life is the sub-
ject of this present age.
	Now commenced the beginning of the
mighty end of her regal life! Napoleon
himself announced to Josephine that a di-
vorce was necessary, that he might found a
new dynasty to this—an heir to his Empire
was imperative! Her suffering at first were
exquisite; it seemed like the separation of
soul and body, this parting from the hus-
band she loved so well! She also loved
France, was as patriotic as he could be.
What joy and satisfaction would she have
experienced could she have known and
been permitted to embrace such a princi-
ple as Celestial Marriage. Freely would
she have given the Austrian Princess,
Maria Louisa, to her husband, could she
still have retained the name of wife; his
"friend," as she had ever fondly called
herself—yes, his friend and counselor as
she had ever been; and Napoleon would
have shared her feelings, for she was most
assuredly the wife of his heart. As it was
she stands as the noblest self-sacrificing
woman on record, for she had no God-given

[Column 3]

principle on which to fall back for support.
Still the eye of God was visibly upon her,
and His Spirit sustained her, or she could
not have passed the fiery ordeal with the
fortitude and sweet dignity that shone
through every deportment, while the iron
pierced her own soul! She lived to see and
bless the boy whom Napoleon himself an-
nounced as "the King of Rome" at the
hour of his birth. The child was often
permitted to visit her, and Napoleon was
ever kind and considerate to her, and by
every means in his power ever sought to
benefit and bless her, and this, to her lov-
ing heart, was all she desired.	
	Time rushed on! Napoleon again be-
came an exile, by the failure of his Rus-
sian expedition. Maria Louisa declined to
follow him in his fallen fortunes—it was
the Emperor she married, the man was
nothing to her in his adversity. Josephine,
the true woman, the devoted wife, writes
to him when passing into exile, every
word of which ought to be written in gold;
she desired to follow him into exile, that
she might attend upon him and console
him. She concludes with these words:
"Adieu, Sire; it is no longer by words that
my sentiments for you are to be proven,
but for action your consent is necessary!"
	Every attention was still paid to her as
the ex-Empress, and Malmaison was still
her residence; but her mind was constantly
excited by the knowledge that he who had
been her hero and her husband was an
exile! Her health delined; at first it was
not thought to be serious, she herself made
light of it; but a short time convinced her
friends, and then herself, that the final
scene was approaching. She was calm and
cheerful as ever, and on the 29th of May,
1814, her tried spirit passed to that land
"Where the wicked cease from troubling,
and the weary are at rest." At midday on
the 2d of June, 1814, the funeral moved
forward from Malmaison, and at 5 o'clock
in the evening the body of the Empress
Josephine was consigned to a humble
tomb in the village church of Ruel. The
spot is now marked by a monument of white
marble, and bears the simple yet touching
inscription—
