			BEAVER CITY.

	The ladies of this city held a Mass Meet-
ing, Dec. 13, 1878, at the meeting house for
the purpose of expressing their views re-
ligiously and politically. There was a

[Column 2]
good representation. Meeting was called
to order by Mrs. Ruth Tyler. On motion
of Mrs. Eliza Hawkins, Mrs. Ruth Tyler
was called to the chair. Mrs. M. E. Ash-
worth and Mrs. M. J. Shipp, secretaries.
The chair stated the object of the meeting,
and made a very able speech, showing that
we, as Latter-day Saints, are loyal to the
Constitution of our country, and Congress
has no right to interfere; saying, let us
stand up and assert our rights, acknowledg-
ing before the world our faith in the princi-
ple sought to be suppressed. Each of the.
following ladies made appropriate speeches
suited to the occasion: Mrs. L. B. Pratt,
Mrs. M. Vaughan, Mrs. D. F. Cox, Mrs.
Caroline Crosby, Mrs. M. A. Tanner, Mrs. S.
Robinson, Mrs. M. A. Grimshaw, Mrs. E.
Hawkins, Mrs. L. Howd, Mrs. E. Hilden,
Mrs. Jane Gibbs. The preamble and reso-
lutions were read by Secretary Mrs. M. E.
Ashworth, and moved and seconded that
We, the ladies of Beaver City, in mass
meeting assembled, adopt and coincide with
the resolution of our sisters of Salt Lake
City in their mass meeting of Nov. 16, 1878.
Mrs. Ruth Tyler made a few closing re-
marks. Choir sang. Benediction by Mrs.
L. Skinner.
		MRS. H. E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y.
		MRS. M. J. SHIPP, Ass't Sec'y.

				LEHI.

	The Mass Meeting of the ladies of Lehi,
held Dec. 26, 1878, proves that although
they may be among the last they are not
the least, or any the less pointed in their
expressions than their sisters in other
places. There was a good attendance of
ladies, and at 10:30 a. m. meeting com-
menced by electing Mrs. Sarah Coleman
Evans as President, and Mrs. Rebecca
Standing Secretary. Choir sang. Prayer
by Mrs. Morgan Davis. Singing.
	The president. in an appropriate and
pointed speech, stated the object of the
meeting, and gave incidents in her early
life and experience in polygamy, after
which the following committee on resolu-
tions were appointed: Mary A. Davis,
Louisa M. Naile, Elizabeth Hawkins and
Ann Ball. While the committee were out
speeches were made by Martha P. Thomas,
Barbara A. Evans, Rebecca Standing, Mor-
gan Anderson, Mary Chillton, S. M. Naile,
Rebecca Evans, Melissa Willes, and many
others. The ladies spoke in a plain and
pointed manner, fully setting forth their
views, feelings and position on the princi-
ple under discussion, and showed that the
ladles were abundantly able to express
themselves and take their own part. The
position of wives and mothers in the moun-
tains was contrasted with the same in other
lands, and the sympathetic ladies of Salt
Lake City were fully advised to expend
their philanthropy where it is most needed.
	The committee having returned, they re-
ported the resolutions that had been pre-
viously adopted by the sisters of Salt Lake
City as the sentiments of this meeting.
The resolutions were then read by the Sec-
retary, commented upon by some speakers,
then unanimously adopted. Closing re-
marks by Martha J. Thomas. Singing.
Prayer by Rebecca Standing.
			SARAH C. COLEMAN, Pres't,
