	DIES OF THE 17TH WARD.

	The apostle speaks of Jesus having been
led up out of the spirit into the wilderness
to be tempted by the devil; that after last-
ing forty days and forty nights he was an
hungered; whereupon the tempter came to
him and said: "If thou be the son of God
command that these stones be made bread,"
but he answered saying, "Man shall not
live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceeds out of the mouth of God."  This is
a saying which we have all heard probably
many times, but the question naturally
arises; Do we thoroughly understand the
Saviours answer as he intended it?  He
was so very comprehensive in his express-
ions which contained so much wisdom,
that in many of his sayings, far more is
meant than the mere words would seem to
convey. We all know and thoroughly rea-
lize that food alone is insufficient for the
physical and spiritual wellfare of mankind;
also the words of God set down for his
children to obey, must be implicitly follow-
ed by them to secure their future salvation.
None knew this better than the Saviour;
and, although possessing, as he undoubted-
ly did, the power to turn the stones into
bread, he chose to go hungry and follow
the promptings of the spirit, suffering him-
self to be taunted and tempted by satan
while in this condition, thus proving his
ability to resist the Arch Tempter while in
the weakest condition to do so physically.
	Christ proved the truth of his own saying
the instant he spoke it, for had he not lived
by every word his father gave him, how apt
would he have been to fall a victim to the
wiles and snares of his cunning adversary,
but by living up to every word of God in-
vulnerable on every point upon which his
adversary tempted him; thus doubly dem-
onstrating the fact of the correctness of his
answer.
	Though our temptations are of a different
nature to those of Jesus, we still have all
we are able to resist; even by living as the
Saviour said we should live, and as far as
we fail to comply with the laws of God, so
far do we surrender our power to the ad-
versary, and are so much less able to resist
the future attacks.
	Many of us perhaps pass along thought-
lessly and carelessly scoffing at the friendly
warnings given us, thinking that life is
short at best, and why not enjoy it as we
feel we can and may.  Life I own is a com-
paratively brief space, and the alloted life
of man but a brief moment compared to
eternity; still that fleeting moment is time
enough for us to earn for ourselves an eter-
nal glory, or endless perdition and suffering.
	Does it not seem to a reasoning mind,
that it would be far preferable for us to
study a cultivation of the spirit and a de-
sire within us to live as the Lord laid down
during our comparatively short stay in this
world, and thus earn an eternal, endless
glory, where all will be peace, joy, and
happiness, instead of foolishly giving way
to folly, fashion and the allurements and
snares of temptation.
 I don't think it would be entirely out of
place for me to say a little here about
charity. We sometimes find those among
us who may have been guilty of having
succumbed to the tempter, and have been
the greatest sufferers in consequence, how
often do we see the poor wanderer unable
to find sympathy; in the hearts of those
who should be foremost in giving it?
Charity, the Bible says: "Covereth a multi-
tude of sins," and I believe that to be a
gospel truth.
	While it is the duty of one and all to live
as the Saviour says by every word that pro-
ceeds out of the mouth of God; it is also
our duty to assist those whose weeknesses
are greater than our own; and instead of
crushing them deeper into the mire, en-
deavor by a kind charitable feeling full of
sisterly love, try to encourage and bring
them back to where we ourselves are.
Though we fail to accomplish our object en-
tirely, the motive stands recorded in the
great book above to our credit, and we are
in no way the losers therefore let us hope
we may be able to resist the many snares of
the tempter besetting our pathway in life,
and at the same time let us not forget to
cherish and endeavor to save those whose
weekness may carry them astray, giving
them sisterly love and charity.


