ST. GEORGE AND WASHINGTON.

 Held in the Tabernacle at St. George,
Dec. 5th, 1878.  Meeting called to order by
Anna L. Ivins, and on her motion Mrs.
Artemisia Snow was chosen President, and 
Eliza Smith Calkins and Elizabeth P. Bent-
ley were chosen Secretaries.
	After singing, prayer was offered by E.
S. Calkins.  Mrs. A. Snow then stated the 
object of the meeting, and the fact of the
Anti-polygamy movement and the injuries
it might bring upon the people.  On motion
of Mrs. Snow Harriet H. Romney, Mary G.
Whitehead and Artemisia S. Segmiller
were appointed a committee to draft reso-
lutions protesting against this movement.
	Some very intresting addresses were
made by A. Snow, D. Everitt and M.
Miles.  These ladies each in her own way
expressed herself very strongly against the 
Anti-polygamy movement, and showed
that those who were opposing us werre not
only trying to ruin a people but were work-
ing for their own distruction.  They relat-
ed an account of their own lives in po-
lygamy, and gave a very excellent account
of their church history.
Among the speakers were Mrs. Gold,
Emily Spencer, Brewet Johnson, Margaret
Matties, Mary Jane Sanders, Mrs. Kemp,
Mary Wells, Annie Wells, Annie Wood-
bury, Mrs. Caul, E. S. Calkin, F. A. Church,
E. Lunt, H. J. Perkins, Snell Snow, E.
Morse Mrs. Liston and E. Bleake,.


[Column 1]
	Committee on resolutions then returned,
bringing in tne, following preamble and
resolutions, which were read and adopted.
	Whereas, We, women of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been
grossly misrepresented by our Christian
sisters dwelling in our midst, in regard to
our rights (to worship God according to the
dictates of our own conscience)—the right
which relates to the most holy relations of
wifehood and motherhood, we do hereby
declare most solemnly and emphatically
our true sentiments, and invite a complete
and impartial investigation of our cause.
	1st. Resolved, That we, the women of
St. George, Santa Clara and Washington,
members of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, do heartily endorse the
sentiments of our sisters in Salt Lake City,
and with them claim the privilege of wor-
shipping God according to the dictates of 
our own conscience; and God being our
helper, we will sustain our husbands, Fa-
thers and sons in carrying out every princi-
ple of our holy religion in righteousness.
	2d. Resolved, That we, as sisters and
true women, will sustain our husbands in
every righteous principle that tends to in-
crease their families, and do all in our power
to bring about the redemption of the human
family. That we solemnly avow our full
faith in the doctrine of Celestial Marriage,
established by the divine command of Him
who is the same yesterday, to-day, and for-
er, and knowing the glory, strength and
power that will rest upon us as a people,
who practice it in righteousness, we do en-
dorse it as one of the most important prin-
ciples in our holy religion, and claim the
right to put it in practice.
	3d. Resolved, That we will endeavor to
keep the commandments of God and leave
the result with Him, and protest against
the enactment of any laws to deprive us of
our religious freedom. That we will sus-
tain and practice the doctrine of plual mar-
riage as revealed by God, our Heavenly
Father, to the Latter-day Saints, and as
practiced anciently by His own people.
	4th. Resolved, That we, the sisters in
the Church of Latter-day Saints, do feel to
thank the ladies who dwell in the Territory
of Utah who have so kindly interested
themselves in the behalf of the "poor Mor-
mon women;" we would suggest that their
interest and kind feelings be turned on
their own poor degraded women, those of
their own land who need their help and
interest, as we, by the help of God, can
take care of ourselves, and feel good in sus-
taining our husbands, fathers and sons in
putting in practice the laws or God.
	5th. Resolved, that we do truly appre-
ciate the efforts of those noble ladies of the
National Suffrage Association, who, without
any sympathy for us in our religious views,
and opposed to plural marriage, yet bravely
defended our cause of woman's rights in
Utah in the halls of Congress. For this we
feel to tender them our hearty thanks.
	6th. Resolved, That everything our sis-
ters in Salt Lake City may do in memorial-
izing Congress in our behalf we fully en-
dorse, and solemnly protest against any-
thing that may be done for the injury of
our cause or people.
	Dismissed by prayer.
