GOD'S GOODNESS AND POWER.

	"The works of God are great, sought out
of all them that have pleasure therein."
	His works are wonderful and glorious,
and more than repay our closest observance.
It is difficult to say which most predomi-
nates therein, His goodness or His power.
While the telescope supplies increasing
proofs of their immeasurable vastness and
extent, the microscope equally reveals signs
of their infinite minuteness and perfection.
But it is not these, either their extent or
completeness, that sets the crown upon the
whole, but it is their individual distinctive-
ness. So that, though countless in compute
and perfect in finish, there is an individu-
ality extending equally from the highest
to the lowest, which bespeaks their Cre-
ator's boundless intelligence and wisdom.
Not only does He tell the number of the
stars and call them by their names, but the
number of existences in each. The deni-
zens of the air, the tenants of the waters,
the inhabitants of the earth, are each thus
identified by Him—even one of the hum-
blest is declared not to fall to the ground
without His cognizance. But not merely
each species is recognized, but the invidu[--]
number of each family, and to such [---]
own particular character is given [---] its
the far-famed Temple was erect [---] When
Zion in the days of King [---]ed on Mount
stone, pillar, cornice a[---] Solomon, every
previously square [---]nd architrave were
prepared all [---] polished, fitted and
skill having [---] a peculiar application of
[---] been minutely and exactly
adjusted; so that on the going up of the
edifice no sound of axe or hammer was to
be heard, each part, on being introduced to
its position, fitting exactly its appointed
place. The construction of that consecrated
Temple was a subordinate type of the plan
and method of the Divine Architect of the
universe. Secretly, silently His works ap-
pear, and on appearing each portion, from
the greatest to the least, finds and fills its
exact position. This accounts for the won-
drous harmony of nature—planets, suns
and systems—and the beauteous complete-
ness and perfection of the whole.
	The Bible is God's written book, written
by human instrumentality. The starry
heavens is His printed book, like the an-
cient tablets given to Moses, by His own
fingers. And why set up there but that all
mankind should read? Astronomy is a
science which arises from man's need of
religion; other sciences spring out of wants
bounded by this life, and so astronomy was
the religion of the world's youth. It took
its rise in the East. Serene and beautiful
are the nights in Persia, and many wise
ones in earlier days, full of deep thought,
went out into the fields like Isaac to medi-
tate at eventide. Those skies in their
calm depths mirroring that which is bound-
less in space and illimitable in time, with a
silence as profound as death and a motion
gliding on forever. What a symbol of
eternity, of immortality, and of life!
	God has so made us that the very act of
looking up produces in us perceptions of

[Column 2]

the sublime. No wonder, therefore, that
the ancient Magii were regarded as the
High Priests of nautre. No wonder that
in the days of Daniel, who was made chief
of the Chaldeans, that is, the first of the
magicians, that the haughty Nebuchadnez-
zar bowed before him with incense and
oblation. The chief business of the Chal-
dean Magi was the study of the heavenly
planets, constantly associated with the stars
the system of light, conceiving them to be
the home of the Deity, as if their eternal
[-]estiny seemed to sit enthroned there; and
so by a star the magicians, the first of the
Gentiles, were in subsequent ages led to
Christ.
	Salt Lake City.	L. M. H.


[Column 1]
