	"OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY."

	On the third day of the New Year we bade
adieu for a short time to our "mountain home,"
and traveled as fast as steam and rail could
convey us towards the great Capitol of the
American notion.
	The first day from home, in passing through
the canons and along the narrow gorges, with
magnificent mountains on either side, we were
wrapt in admiration of the loftiness and grand-
eur of the wonderful old monumental rocks,
which make man, in his reverence for that
which is sublime, pay homage to the great
Creator of the universe.  They stood, towering
up above all the world, like old castles, towers
and battlements, and suggestively recalling to
memory the tales of good King Arthur and the
bearded knights of chivalry who dwelt in their
strongholds, securely fortified on all sides from
their enemies.  Our vivid imagination drew
many a quaint picture of what might have
transpired within these walls had these im-
mense stuctures of rock been petrified castles.
Of the harp and the lyre with which the gay
troubadour soothed the sorrows of the master,
while he made love to some beauteous maiden,
who, though rich in a noble name and a vast
inheritance, paid a loving tribute to genius,
and was captivated by the graces and gallantry
of a poor troubadour.
	Of the brave warriors, too, who made love
in a prouder fashion—who did bold deeds that
they might win the affection of some lady-love
whose heart could only be reached through her
admiration of fearlessness and courage.
	But we must not linger drawing these ideas
of romance upon paper to put before our read-
ers, who are longing to learn of the realities of
life itself in the far-famed city of Washington;
thus, while we might be enthusiastic over the
scenery on the Union Pacific, and even tell
them we saw a herd of antelope numbering
probably seventy beautiful, bright-eyed, grace-
ful little animals, our readers would impa-
tiently exclaim, "Why in the world don't she
tell us something about Washington?"
	Patience, good friends, all in good time—first
let us speak of the "noble Mississippi," which
so many long years ago we crossed in the dead
of winter on the ice, with a little handful of
poor, despised Mormons compelled to flee from
the hands of their assailants into a barren wil-
derness.  Our feelings in recalling these scenes
can only be appreciated by those who endured
the same fatigues, who shared the same perils.
	For the sake of coming sooner to the part of
our article which will be most readily devoured,
we will pass over all the beautiful scenery,
leave out descriptions of tunnels and snow-
sheds, and only tell you that the country on all
sides through the State of Pennsylvania must
in the leafy season of the year surpass all at-
tempts at description; even at this unpleasant

[Column 2]
season it stirred the latent fountains of poetry
in our nature, and called up the sediment
within to harmonize with the beautiful without.
	After dashing along at railroad speed for five
days and a half, we reached Washington Wed-
nesday m., so completely worn out for want of
sleep and rest that the bed was preferable to
luncheon in the fine hotel where our good
friends, the National Suffragists had quartered
during their stay at the Convention.
	Here we were cordially welcomed by Mrs.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, whose name is well
known to our readers, and Miss Susan B. An-
thony, whose name has rung from one end of
the country to the other in connection with
"woman's suffrage."  These good ladies sought
to make us feel perfectly at home; and when
soon after in came Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer,
whom we met face to face for the first time,
our heart went forth in great waves of love to
her for her courageous defense of the women
of Utah here in the Congress of the National
Capitol, and under the broad flag of freedom
to all men.  At some future time we may give
you pen sketches of these illustrious ladies, but
at present we can only glance at them and pass
on.  Mrs. Spofford, the hostess of the house,
also came to enquire kindly after our welfare,
hearing we had come off a long journey.
	The first evening after we arrived in Wash-
ington, a preliminary meeting of the N. W. S.
A. was held at the residence of Belva A. Lock-
wood, Attorney and Solicitor, and plans were
made for the two days' session.  Everything
seemed very strang to us—coming to a large
hotel full of people of fashion, grand old aristo-
crats from the north and the south.  Among
the number are some very fine looking elderly
men, who are members of the House and Sen-
ate.  Vice-President Wheeler is stopping here,
and several other eminent and distinguished
people, both men and women.
	Thursday morning, Jan. 9, in company with
Mrs. Stanton. Miss Anthony and Mrs. Spofford
we drove to Lincoln Hall.  Mrs. Stanton made
the opening speech.  She is very beautiful for
a woman of her years; her hair is magnificent,
and as she arranges it seems almost like a
crown. She was neatly and tastefully attired
in a figured satin dress with a train, which she
deems as necessity on account of her size, and
presided at the Convention of the N. W. S. A.
during the two days, and also evening sessions,
with a great deal of dignity, and never for one
moment lost her self-possession, not even when
a warm discussion took place between Fred.
Douglas, Marshall of the Dis. of Columbia,
and Mr. Pervis of Philadelphia, the last eve-
ning of the Convention.  In that respect she
reminded us very much of our dignified wo-
man leader, Miss E. R. Snow; yet in other re-
spects the two are very unlike.  Mrs. Stanton
is short and very plump; she is extremely
well-preserved, travels about and lectures as if
she were a young woman, (here is another
similarity between the two.)
	Miss Anthony is in every respect Mrs. Stan-
ton's opposite, except that they agree on the
woman question.  She is entirely different
from what one would fancy in reading about
her.  Upon the platform she wore a very rich
black silk dress trimmed with velvet and lace.
In many respects she is a very remarkable wo-
man.  She possesses great firmness and strength
of character, and is a famous talker; her voice
is not as pleasant as Mrs. Stanton's, but her
words are sharp and incisive, and she never
utters a sentence in public that is not calculat-
ed, from its construction, to strike deep at the
foundation of the evil of which she speaks.
Her best lecture delivered here was "Bread
and the Ballot."

[Column 3]
	Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, in a very elegant
garnet colored silk dress, also delivered a very
strong speech—"United States Rights versus
States Rights."
	"Lillie Devereux Blake," correspondent of
New York and other papers, is another very
clever woman who knows how to talk and has
got something to talk about.  She also was ex-
tremely well dressed.
	Helen M. Cook, another lady correspondent
from New York, is evidetly a very talented
lady.  Indeed there were so many pleasing la-
dies of culture and ability it would be impossi-
ble to enumerate them in one short chapter.
Indeed, we have heard and seen so many peo-
ple and so much which deserves attention we
have a good stock in trade at the present date
of that sort of material, which is a powerful
element in newspaper articles.  Suffice it to
say we met ladies from nearly all parts of the
States, all very pleasant people, generous and
kindly in feeling, almost entirely without pre-
judice towards our people, because of the broad
platform on which they stand before the world.
They are noble women, with lofty aspirations
and intelligent ideas.  They have already ac-
complished a great deal in educating women
in the practical lessons of life.  One woman
more we must mention, and then we will
leave this chapter, but anon, kind friends, you
shall hear more about suffrage women.
	Mrs. Sara Andrews Spencer must not be for-
gotten in our little paper, nor in Mormon his-
tory when it is written.  She possesses great
executive ability, has very good voice, is
gifted with fine expression, uses the choicest
words, and sums everything up in the most
concise and comprehensive manner.  She is
the woman who is behind the curtain doing
the work of a dozen women, all for the benefit
of her sex—and her heart is in it; everybody
who hears her speak knows she speaks from
the soul, and she has as fine talents as one
could ask for to make a mark in the world—to
win fame.  But she is slowly plodding in the
work of reform in this great city, and working
her way along against the woman of fashion,
the woman who don't want to vote, who's got
all the rights she wants; and by and by she's
going to win.  So much for the pioneer work-
ers in Woman's Suffrage.
	<E. B. Wells>


