			WOMEN.

	The question has been asked, "Was there
ever a time when there were no learned
women?"  To this query we reply, No!
never since the creation of Eve, our first
mother, down to the present, when the
cause of women's social and political rights
has become a distinct national question; we
admit there has been an unusual intellec-
tual activity for the last twenty years, both
in Europe and America, and that there has
been advancement and progress in this re-
spect within the last decade, but we are apt
to felicitate ourselves, and perhaps are too
indiscriminate on the progress achieved in
female education.
	There never was a time, let me repeat,
when there was not highly educated women,
according to the standard of their age.
Isis and Minerva show the value set upon
feminine intellect by the ancients.  Recall
the noble tribute of Pluto to the genius of
women in his Banquet; also the long line of
learned and accomplished English women,
from Lady Jane Grey to Elizabeth Barrett.
Among that wonderful people, the Spanish
Arabs, there were women who were public
lecturers, secretaries of kings.  While
Christian Europe was sunk in darkness,
Ayesha, daughter of Ahmed ben Mahom-
med ben Kadin of Cordova, was considered
the most learned woman of her age (the
Tenth century); she excelled in mathemat-
ics, medicine, poetry, and other sciences.
The Moorish historian almost deifies this 
then wonderful woman.  There were female
professors of the classics, and of rhetoric at
Salomanca and Aleula under Ferdinand
and Isabella.  The intellectual influence of
Lucrezia Borgia is classed by Roscoe with
that of his hero, Leo X. Vittoria Culonna
and Veronica Gambava ranked as the
equals and friends of Bembo and Michael
Angelo; Tisaboschi declared the Rimatrice,
or female poets of the 15th century, not in-
ferior in number or merit to the Rimatori,
or male poets.  Benedict XIV bestowed on
Maria Aynezi, a celebrated mathematician,
the place of Apostolic professor in the Uni-
versity of Bologna in 1758.  Pope Clement
XIV wrote, in 1763, to a lady who had sent
him her translation of Locke, expressing
his satisfaction that the succession of learned
women was still maintained in Italy.  There
is a work of Paul de Ribero, entitled "The
Immortal Triumphs and Heroic Enterprises
of 845 Women."  There were sold at Pa-
dua in 1847, from the library of Count Leo-
pold Terri, 30,000 volumes solely the works
of female authors.  Donna Maria, of Portu-
gal, who married Prince Alexander, grand-
son of Charles V, could talk in both Latin
and Greek; she was said to be well versed
in philosophy, mathematics and theology.
Madaine Roland was acknowledged a far
better Statesman than her husband.  One
of the most important treaties of modern
Europe, the peace of Cambray in 1529, was
negotiated by two women, Margaret, the
aunt of Charles V, and Louisa, the mother
of Francis 1.
	These are merely a few specimens given
out of thousands.  There always have been
strong-minded, energetic, brilliant women,
but in order to succeed there must be an
incentive to action, and all acquired facul-
ties are to be brought to bear upon some
definite end.  Indolent young men have
been galvanized into industry when the
final pressure on an immediate aim was
supplied.  A few, both male and female,
have so strong a propensity for study that
they pursue it by themselves, though with-
out any ulterior aim.  But for most of those
of average energy there must be an object for
the employment of their time.  The end
and aim in the schooling of our girls has been
to fit them to be wives and mothers. This
must never be lost sight of.  But our boys
have the probable destiny of becoming fa-
thers and supervisors of the intellectual
training of their children.  Our boys have
this sacred responsibility to arouse them,
and all the incentives of private and public
duties.	
	What is it that so often causes failure on
the part of girls, when it has been proven
that at school the girls showed more apti-
tude, and averaged an equality of talent.
Let me give the answer as it has come up
from thousands of female hearts: "We have
nothing to do."  Boys go to college, study
professions, learn trades, etc., etc.  They
have all before them, while most of the
girls feel that they have nothing worthy
to inspire them, and the failure arises from
want of stimulus.  An immortal soul needs
for its sustenance something more than vis
iting, novel reading, crocheting, making
pretty little things to adorn person or par-
lor.  This is not sufficient - neither is that
other incentive so often held forth to young
women, viz., "To be the mother of some
great man like a Washington or a Mar-
shall."  This has been the burden of ad-
dress at school examinations by the learned
(or otherwise) gentlemen present.  This
they seemed to think was sufficient to in-
spire heart and mind forever!  To be the
mother of a sublime specimen of male hu-
manity!  Some critic, after speaking very
cordially of Mrs. Mill's able article "The
Enfranchisement of Women," in the West-
minster Review, said that it was to be
hoped, however, the mother of J. S. Mill
would always regard it as her chief honor
to have reared her distinguished son.  But
why is it not as much honor to be a useful
woman as to be a useful man?  Must this
be the great ultimatum of woman's life
here - to be spoken of after a generation or
two, or more, as the mother of the learned,
renowned, famous James, Charles, or John,
So and so?  We believe most women pre-
fer to take the honor as they go along; not
that any woman would object to being the 
mother of a good son or daughter--we con-
sider it an honor to have either.  The fa-
ther may be as important in the rearing of
the child as the mother, yet it is not con-
sidered the whole duty of man to be a good
father.  Many men who have been good
fathers have also attended to arduous duties,
were, in fact, many of them, guardians of
American liberty.  And has woman only
one-half a mission?  Is not each individual,
male or female, an unit before God?  Has
woman equally with man an individual
body to be protected, and an individual soul
to save?  Must she not see, feel, know,
speak, think, act for herself and not through
another?  Is not the same grand universe,
with all its wonders and mystery, spread
out before her for study and research?  Are
not the same deep thirstings for knowledge
within her soul?  Has she not the same
solemn and profound problems to solve that
man has?  And can she not attain to as
great a scientific or literary eminence as
her brother man?  Is she not a mental,
moral, spiritual being, and as such, account-
able to her Creator, who has placed her
here by the side of man under the same
obligations to develop and unfold her God-
given powers?  It is arrogant and audacious
presumption for man to attempt to decide
the sphere of woman, especially in an age
that can number its thousands of noble, in-
tellectual, earnest workers for the right,
each one of which has mind enough to set
up half a dozen like many who disparage
woman's capacity.
	Woman asks the same intellectual and
political advantages that are granted to
man. All women have the natural right to
labor, suffer and endure - no one attempts
to deny this: but she asks the same encour-
agement to give energy to industrial enter-
prise.  Says an American writer:  "The
dignity of labor should be sustained.  The
franchise of a freeman should be granted
to the humblest laborer who has not for-
feited his right by crime.  In the responsi-
bilities of a freeman he will find the strong-
est motives to exertion.  Besides, so far as
government can by its action affect his con-
fidence of a just remuneration for his toil,
he feels that a remedy is put in his hands
by the ballot box."  Some of our law mak-
ers have asserted that the right of suffrage
was worth fifty cents a day in its effect
upon the wages of the male laborers in this
country. The great educator of American
men is the ballot box with its accompani-
ments, and this means the whole world of
public life, public measures, public interests
and public offices.
	There are brave, noble, true-hearted men
who have and ever will use their voice, in-
fluence and vote for any measure necessary
to give woman her true position, to enable
and secure her from being a prey to those
who have no law in their habits and propen-
sities. Talleyrand said, "To see one-half
of the human race excluded by the other
half from all participation in government is
a political phenomenon, which on abstract
principles it is impossible to explain."  "The
principle of an aristocracy is admitted,"
says Toquerville, "the moment we reject
an absolutely universal suffrage." The
protest of women is not against a special
abuse, but against a whole system of injus-
tice." "Once recognize the political equality
of the sexes," says one, "and all the ques-
tions of legal, social, educational and pro-
fessional equality will soon settle them-
selves."
							L. M. H.


