Light,” from the pen of one of the ablest
writers and educators of his time Horace

[Column 2]
Mann. A number of fine poems help to
make the magazine more desirable, and cer-
tainly home literature should be sustained,
as well as home industries and other home
manufactures. Success to the enterprise.
	OUR readers will be pleased to know that
one of our most esteemed poets and faith-
ful contributors Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron
has had an addition to her family: a
beautiful little grand-daughter, born to her
daughter Zina E. wife of Sylvester Walker
of South Bountiful, Davis Co. on October
7, 1893, the first-grandchild, and of course
there is great rejoicing, in the family, and
the EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations to the parents,  and grand-
parents of the little one, who is we believe
to be named Caroline in honor of the moth-
er’s sister and it was also the name of the
great-grandmother Caroline Jackson of St.
George, who was so well known among our
people for her good works and labors of
love. 
	WEDNESDAY Oct. 4th, there was a very
interesting Art Exhibit at the studio of Miss
Kate Wells in the McCornick Building in
this City, by our home artists, Messrs
Clawson, Harwood, Culmer and Lenzi, also
Mesdames Harwood, Carson, Sloan, Camp-
bell and Miss Hartwell. The original
painting of the picture by J. W. Clawson
exhibited at the World’s Fair, “Santa
Maria della Salute,” Venice, was among
the collection at Miss Wells studio, the
picture is very fine and the people would be
well repaid in visiting the studio on such
rare occasions. Miss Wells expects to
have another art exhibit on Dec. 1st, at
which time she will be glad to see all lovers
of art come and view the collection, which
will be enjoyable and educational so far,
even if one cannot afford to buy. Other
artists are expected to be represented at that
time. Miss Wells is very painstaking in
her own line of work, coloring photos, and
takes delight in explaining the pictures ex-
hibited to visitors.


