	CATHRINE FOREMAN Prest.


BRADLeY—At Moroni, Sanpete Co. Utah, March
17th, 1893 of paralysis, after an illness of twelve
hours, Sister Betsy Bradley wife of Ex. Bishop
George W. Bradley, late of this place, born July
4th, 1811, in Clarence, Erie Co. N. Y.
	She died as she had lived, a faithful Saint, her
connection with the Church dates from 1844, n
which year she was baptized, and joined the
fortunes, and trials, of the Saints of those days,
passing through the trying scenes of Nauvoo,
the exodus, and toilsome journey across the
plains, arriving in Salt Lake City in 1848 in the
fall of that year; she was among the pioneers of
Sanpete Co. who were called to settle at Manti,
passing through all the vicissitudes of the of the early
settlement of that place.
	She with her husband was called to help settle
Nephi, where she resided until the spring of 1854,
when Brother Bradley was called as leader in set-
tling Moroni, of which place he was made Bishop
which office he held, until July 1877. During all
of those years Sister Bradley spent a busy, active
life, being first Treasurer, then teacher in the
Relief Society.
	She was the mother of fourteen children, a host
of grand children, and seven great, great grand
children, she leaves many dear friends to mourn 
her loss. Dear sister rest in peace.
Jane BAILeY, President. 
A. M. Hardy, Sec,


Editor Exponent.
	IT becomes our painful duty to chronicle the
death of another of our beloved sisters. Sister
Bergetta M. Anderson, wife of Peter Anderson
who departed this life August 1st, 1893.
Sister Anderson was born March 6th, 1818, in
Wielle Socken, Denmark, was baptized May 20,
1853 and emigrated to Utah the same year: she
was the mother of four children three of whom
awaited her on the other shore. 
She was a teacher in the Relief Society, kind
to the sick and afflicted, charitable to the poor,
and a true and faithful friend to all.,
She was an earnest worker in the Relief Society
as long as she was able. She leaves a husband,
one son, and a host of friends to mourn her loss.
She died as she had lived a true Saint in the hope
of a glorious resurrection.
	JANE BAILEY.President.
	ANN M. HARDY, Sec.
Moroni, Sanpete Co. Utah.


MRS. LOVINA FILLMORE, who died at
her home in Clarence, Erie County, N. Y.
Sept. 3, was born on Aug. 13, 1787, at a
time when the Federal convention in
Philadelphia was drawing up the constitu-
tion of the United States. She was two
years old when George Washington was
installed as the first president; and had
witnessed the history of the country every
since. Her husband, Rev. Glezen Fill-
more, was a famous pioneer Methodist
preacher. They were married in 1809,
three years before the second war with
England, and he died in 1875; thus for
sixty-six years she served in the arduous
duties of a Methodist itinerant’s wife. She
was a thrifty housekeeper and manager of
the farm and a woman of vigorous mind,
who rejoiced in her 106 years.—Ex.


