WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE RTAKE.
The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the
Ephraim School House, September 22nd, 
1893. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
Conference opened with singing, “Lord we
come before thee now.” Opening prayer
by Bishop C. C. N. Dorius. Singing ‘‘Re-
deemer of Israel.” Statistical and
Financial report of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, and the minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
President M. A. P. Hyde hoped we
would have a time of rejoicing in our con-
ference, ‘‘Do not partake of the spirit of
the world but try and draw them to us, so
they can partake of the spirit of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ.”
The branches of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green, Moroni, Ephraim, and
Spring City were represented by their
presidents, all testifying of the good work
that is being done by the sisters.
Counselor Sarah Peterson said she
thought the sisters were doing well and did 
not think they could do any better. Spoke
at some length in regard to the storing
of wheat. Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt 
Lake City, referred to the storing of grain
and the counsel of President Young to
the sisters; also of the respect that was
shown to the Presidency of the Church in
attending the World’s Fair. Considered
the meeting held by our sisters in Chicago
and the visit of the Presidency had re-
moved a great deal of prejudice against us
as a people. Spoke in regard to the
World’s Fair. The impression that was
made on the people of the world at the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. meet-
ing s at Chicago, were very important.
Sister Elmina S. Taylor Territorial
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, rejoiced in the organization of
the Relief Society. ‘‘President Young
was inspired when he told the sisters to
store up grain for a time of famine. This
is a time of progress among the women of
the world and we do not want to be behind
them. The Relief Society is a blessing
throughout the land. May the Lord bless
us, that our meetings may be full of in-
struction.” Singing ‘‘Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding; singing ‘‘Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Anderson. Singing,
‘‘Our God we raise to thee.” The two
branches of Manti Relief Society were
represented by their presidents as being in
a good condition, Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said: ‘‘My feelings I could not des-
cribe, the joy that filled my heart to hear
from the sisters of the prosperity of Zion,
It is very encouraging to have our brethren

[Column 2]
meet with us in our conference. Let us as
sisters in Zion take no praise unto our-
selves, but be humble and give the praise
unto our Father in Heaven, be thankful
for the blessings we enjoy daily. Let us
be patient and humble in our trials and the
Lord will bless us. Zion is arising and her
light is beginning to shine. Pray to our
Heavenly Father that he will keep our sons
and daughters in purity, that they may be-
come shining lights in the Kingdom of God’’
Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke concerning
hard times but said, “I think it is a good
time for we have plenty to eat and wear.
Advised the sisters to subscribe for the
EXPONENT. Sister Taylor said the
work of the Relief Society is a great and
glorious one. It is no good for us to
belong to any association unless we perform
our duties. Do we go to the Relief Society
meetings to gossip and talk about our
neighbors and the Priesthood? No, we go
there to be taught in the gospel. The
brethren are beginning to realize that wo-
men are a help in the kingdom of God I
thank God for the faithfulness and bravery
of our sisters through their troubles and
trials. Sustain your presidents and coun-
selors by your prayers. Also Sister Zina
D. Young and her counselors.
Be good wives and mothers and watch
your children, for Satan is trying to lure
them from purity and virtue. Ask God to
help you to know your duty and to do it.
Sister Wells spoke at some length on the
Silk Industry. Advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees and raise cocoons.
Gave a description of some of the exhibits
at the World’s Fair. Referred briefly to
the different meetings of the women at
Chicago. “It is the express wish of Sister
Young that the branches of the Relief
Society should meet twice a month at
least.”
Sister Taylor desired the brethren and
sisters to teach their children their mother
tongue, those of different nationalities.
President M. A. P. Hyde thanked the
sisters for the information that they had
given ns. Sister Mary Petersen was sus-
tained as Stake Treasurer. Conference
adjourned for three months. Singing “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Benediction by Brother John Schofield.
