RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Semi-annual Conference of
the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall Monday Oct. 9th, 1893,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand near her Counselor Bathsheba
W. Smith,also M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, E.B. Wells, R. B. Pratt, Minerva

[Column 2]
W. Snow and many Presidents of the
Relief Society of the several stakes of
Zion. Meeting opened with singing, “Come
let us anew,” &c. prayer was offered by
Dr. Elvira S. Barney, singing, “For the
strength of the hills we bless thee.”
	President Z. D. H. Young made opening
remarks welcoming all to the Conference
in an affectionate manner. The secretary
read the minutes and called the roll of
Presidents,nineteen Stakes were represented
viz. Salt Lake, Davis, Weber, Box Elder,
Morgan. Summit, Cache, Utah. Juab, San-
pete, Millard, Wayne, St. George, Emery,
Bear Lake, Malad, Star Valley, St. Joseph
and Mexico.
	Sister Young spoke forcibly upon the
care of the sick and needy which was the
first duty to be attended to; and exercise of
charity and love, which would make us
more like our Savior, who had abundant
charity, and went about doing good, we
should aim to attain perfection and put
away all evil thoughts and feelings, that
we may be prepared to perform labors for
the salvation of the living and the redemp-
tion of the dead, prayed that we might be
faithful to observe every law and com-
mandment and ever set an example worthy
of imitation.
	Sister Sarah Barton said Star Valley was
organized Nov. 30, 1892, and there were
seven branches, the settlements were all
new but the sisters were anxious to do all
in their power, the presiding sisters had
visited, Sister Dixon, the President was an
able and energetic woman.
	Sister Willmirth East, President St.
Joseph Stake returned thanks to her
Heavenly Father that she was able to be
present, had been very ill; she was not as
well posted now concerning the circum-
stances of the Relief Society; as she had
been in Salt Take since last April; but felt
determined to labor in the office and calling
to which she had been appointed, realized
it was the duty of the sisters to be at their
post, bore testimony to the truth of the
Gospel, and referred to President Young’s
teachings on the subject of home-industries,
and how much better off we would be to-
day had we heeded his counsel; thought too
much attention was paid to frivolity and
fashion and accomplishments, instead of
housekeeping and the everyday duties of
home; she knew marriage was in many
instances postponed because an elaborate
establishment could not be kept up;
deprecated the idea of too much luxury,and
thought we should economize and live
within our means.
	Sister Mary B. Eyring from Juarez,
Mexico, was thankful to be here to mingle
her voice with the congregation, glad to see
so many engaged in the good work, thought
the Relief Society branches in Mexico
would compare favorably with those in
Utah; they had not many calls for help,
very few were without means to help them-
selves, though there had been some sickness,
and the sisters then had given liberally of
time and help; there were only a few
Mexicans in the Church, there were some
who could talk Spanish, these were as clean
as white people, the sisters had made a few
quilts; when visiting round had found some
not very comfortable. “In these corners
where there are only a few congregated to-
gether, they are bright, quick and intel-
lectual anxious to do their duty; the Saints
had experienced miraculous instances of
the power of God; generally good health
until this last summer had malarial fever,

[Column 3]
there had not been as much suffering in set-
tling there as in many other places; always
have corn and beans, that is what the
country affords, we have good order in all 
our settlements; our Mexican neighbors
come into our colony and wonder, we have
good gardens and orchards and houses, the
authorities of Casas Grande say our people
have been very profitable; we are far ahead
of the Mexicans in prosperity and thrift,
our people import new wagons and farming
machinery;’’spoke of the Mexican ladies and
their servants and other interesting things.
	Sister Jane S. Coleman, President Wayne
Stake, thought we should not only be 
listeners in these meetings, but practice in
our lives the counsel given: the Wayne
Stake was organized the 27th and 28th, of
May 1893, there were now ten branches,
“at our last Conference our President Sister
Young said there would be more love, union
and charity among the sisters, and it cer-
tainly has been verified. Four of the
branches in our Stake have granaries, we
have had hard times out our way, only one
settlement where the grain ripened;” ex-
plained in regard to the grain that had been
stored, thought the President of the
society should always lead out in good
works.
	The President Mrs. Young hoped the
sisters would take cognizance of the advice
that had been given concerning the grain,
President Woodruff had said the last week
that he had no right to this wheat, unless he
gave security, she felt glad for those who
had granaries, and ashamed that there were
so few comparatively, urged the sisters to
take care of the needy, feed them and care for
them in other ways, let none suffer but try
and give them something to do, those who
are able to work, it is a much better way;
she knew how to take wool, tow and flax,
and work it up; encourage home work,
knit your own stockings and help to be
self-sustaining; made some suggestions
about putting lime among the wheat to pre-
serve it from insects.
	Sister Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake re-
ported all the branches in good condition
spiritually, and faithful in temporal labors,
it was a hard country, very cold in winter;
and the settlements extended so far it was
not possible to accomplish much in winter,
was glad to come to these conferences and
get instructed in her duties; bore a good
testimony felt thankful she was one with
the Saints.
	Bishop H. B. Clawson gave notice of a
lecture on Music and Morals to be given in
the Assembly Hall that evening by the
Rev. A. Howiss of London who was on a
visit to America, had just been to San
Francisco and on his way back from the coast
would like to deliver a lecture in our city.
Sister Martha G. Young who had just
visited in Emery County gave a few items
from there, as there was no representative
present from that Stake.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p.m. sing-
ing “Praise God from whom all blessings
flow,” &c, benediction Dr. R. B. Pratt.


