			     MAGGIE BASSETT Sec.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms, 
Nov. 4th, 1893. President Z. D. Young
presiding, sang “O, happy souls who pray”
&c. Prayer by Sister Mary P. Silver,
further sang “For the strength of the hills’,
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
President Young said she was grateful to
be here today. ‘‘I look upon this organiza-
tion as near the school of the Prophets. I
have never seen a day in my life, that I
have not been thankful that I am a woman.
The man has the Priesthood, but he has to
fight the battle but our labor is to bear and
mould the souls of men. President Young
said when women are living their religion
they can wash and anoint the sick. What-
ever comes to us sisters, let us acknowledge
the hand of God in all things, then we will
be lifted up above the trials  of life. I trust
my sisters that all will speak a few words.”
	Sister B. Smith, said she did not often
meet here as she had many duties owing to
working in the Temple. Also spoke of the 
Deseret Hospital being in need of a little
help. Gave much good counsel and
prayed God that we might all be faithful
and be prepared to dwell with the sanctified.

[Column 2]
	Sister E. Stevenson read a note from
President  E. S. Taylor excusing herself
from coming today, as her daughter needed
her help a few days, also said that our
loved President Horne was better, although
she could not meet with us yet.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox made some excel-
lent remarks thought we would need all
the faith we could get to bear the trials that
are coming, bore testimony of the good
spirit in the Temple, and prayed that we
might all be saved in the Celestial Kingdom.
	The sisters sang “The Spirit of God like
a fire is burning,’’ &c. After which Sister
Gibson spoke a few encouraging words and
bore her testimony. Sister Jane James,
said many encouraging things but felt that
she could not express her feelings. Said
she hoped light would yet reach her people
and prayed that her son, might be faithful
and go to them, as the Prophet Joseph
had predicted. She then spoke in tongues,
Sister Paul giving the interpretation.
	Sisters sang “How blessed is the day,”
&c. A sister in the congregation said the
gift of tongues had been in answer to her
prayer, that we might have the gift today.
May we all be faithful.
	President Young then called on Sister
Lydia D. Alder to read the first lecture on
faith, in the Doc. & Cov. after which Sister
Alder bore her testimony.
	Susan Larson, of the 8th, Ward made
some good remarks and asked the prayers
of the sisters in behalf of the late Sister
Fletcher’s daughter who is sorely afflicted.
Sister Windsor, bore an excellent testimony
and gave many instructions, and closed by
praying for more faith and more of the
Holy Spirit to lead us back to our Father’s
Kingdom. Sister E. Brown also spoke
well and bore a faithful testimony.
	President Young desired the sisters to
read the lectures in the Doc. & Cov. also
asked the Associations to keep up their
Annual Meetings. Thanked God for all
the blessings received here today, and
closed by asking the blessings of God up-
on us. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Sang Doxology. Benediction by Sister B.
Smith.
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


[Column 1]
