UTAH STAKE.

	MINUTES of Conference of Relief Society
of Utah Stake held in Payson City meeting
house Oct. 13, 1893. The Stake Presi-
dency of the Relief Society on the stand
also Sister E. B. Wells from Salt Lake
City Conference opened with singing and
prayer, reading of minutes of former Con-
ference etc.
	The President Sister John felt pleased to
meet in Conference with the sisters of Pay-
son, thought it a good plan to appoint our
Conferences around in the different settle-
ments, many were enabled thereby to
attend conference, who could not otherwise
do so; the sisters are faithful in helping the
poor, and in gathering means for that pur-
pose.
	We have Sister Wells with us today, and
many Presidents and will now hear from
them.
	President Pickard of Springville, Presi-
dent Colvin of Payson, President Stickney
of Santaquin, gave very favorable and
encouraging reports of their wards, all were
united in trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister E. B. Wells the next speaker said,
“Sister Zina very much wished to be with
us but other duties prevented her, she de-
sires your faith and prayers, she needs your
faith and prayers just as much as the
brethren do, all you who have read Brother
Joseph’s remarks at the Relief Society know
what he said on that subject, of sustaining
with your faith and prayers those who are
called to lead. I have felt gratified in hear-
ing the reports read. I love to hear of the 
good work our sisters are doing, and it
pleases me to hear of our sisters saving
grain as they have been counseled to do,
am pleased to hear of the sisters building
houses to meet in.” spoke about the grain
that was being laid up thought that it be-
longed to the Lord, and the Church and
was for the poor, and the needy, and not
for any particular society, but would be
distributed as directed by the Presidency;
no matter who the needy were, whether
they were saint or not, if they were needy,
we must be charitable, she was very glad
to meet with us here in Payson.
	After. singing and prayer Conference ad-
journed until half past one p. m.
Sister Marilla Daniels spoke on various
subjects of interest such as storing our
grain, the good instructions that were given
us at Conference etc., etc., thought the
storing of grain was a word of warning to
the people, and we must give heed to it,
and take care of it, spoke of Dr. Barney’s
method of saving flour by packing it in oil
cans and sealing it up air tight etc. She
bore her testimony to the truth of this
work; we are here in the fulfillment of
prophesy, let us keep the spirit of God and
we will be all right.
	Sister John felt it a privilege to belong to
the Relief Society, it is a school for us, it
unites us with each other, we become ac-
quainted with each other by meeting to-
gether in these conferences, thought this
Stake was progressing in good works, ad-
vised the sisters to store up wheat, and be
faithful in all the duties devolving upon us,
tried to impress upon the sisters the idea of
all being Suffragists etc.
	Sister Wells spoke again for a short time,
on the importance of saving our grain, after
taking care of our poor, thought the teach


ers had very responsible positions teaching
the sisters temporally as well as spiritually,
said try to cheer and comfort them, do not
talk much about hard times, we do not
know much about hard times, but when she
thought of the hand-cart companies she
could not help shedding tears, “we are not
poor we are rich.” Sister Wells spoke of
the Silk exhibit from Utah, at the World’s
Fair, and of the notice it attracted, and of
the beautiful curtains sent from Utah being
on exhibition in a glass case, advised the
Sisters to raise cocoons and make silk, we
can make silk dresses, curtains, ribbons, etc.
if we will only work for it. President
Young said the air was fnll of silk, spoke
of the exertions of Brother Graves in trying
to get that industry started, said we must
promote home industries, we must sustain
our own industries and employ our own
people, and there will be plenty of money
soon, but we are very extravagant as a
people, in New England they are more
saving than we are. “Let us cultivate
kindness to each other, and not despise any
one that cannot dress as well as we can,
the Lord’s hand has been over us for good,
we have been preserved from storms and
cyclones, and we as a people should be
very grateful to our Heavenly Father for
his protecting care which hath been over
us.”
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned for three months.
		Mrs. Caroline Daniels, Secretary.


