BIRTHDAY NOV. 20, 1893.

	"THE aged woman likewise, that they
be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not
false accusers, not given to much wine, 
teachers of good things;
	"That they may teach the young women
to be sober, to love their husbands, to love
their children,
	"To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home,
good, obedient to their own husbands, that
the word of God be not blasphemed."
Titus, chapt. 2, verses 3, 4, and 5.

Thus anciently, were holy women taught,
	By Christ’s Apostles, great, inspired men;
Today are glimpses of those lessons taught;
	Apostles, Prophets teach the same again.
In this last time, now more than fifty years
	Hath woman’s true position been defined
By God’s appointed servants, Prophets, Seers,
	And Revelators of His will and mind.
How can we praise our Father, God, enough,
	For blessing us with this grand sisterhood?
To aid each other when the way is rough,
	To find no pleasure but in doing good.
To love and help our husbands on in life;
	To love and teach our children righteousness;
None to accuse, make peace instead of strife;
	True women everywhere, no more, no less.
Making each home the dearest, happiest place,
	Kin to the Heavenl homes we seek above;
That every child may sweetest lessons trace,
	From father’s counsel kind, and mother’s love.
I mentioned fifty years, How few remain
	Of that first organized Relief Society,
To whom the Prophet, Joseph Smith, made plain,
	Their place and how to fill it with propriety.\
One of those few, today is Seventy-five;
	Again, our Father, God, thy name we praise.
That Mary Isabella Horne is yet alive,
	With pow’r among us still her voice to raise.
How often that dear voice to us imparts
	Lessons of wisdom for our home affairs,
Teaching us how to touch our children’s hearts,
	And make them partners in our household
	cares.
With Zina, Bathsheba, and other few,
	Teaching the younger women holy truths,

[Column 2]
Which Joseph taught at Kirtland and Nauvoo,
	Sweet lessons’ which the wearied being soothes
For one, I often wish that I could be
	The maker of a home like Sister Horne’s;
So orderly, from envious strife so free.
	Like a bright bed of roses with no thorns.
Yet, time has been when thorns her heart did
	pierce,
And noxious weeds grew round her, tall and
	thick;
And storms have beaten on her, cold  and fierce,
	Calling for vig’rous action, brave and quick.
How is it, thorns and weeds are cleared away
	Clouds have dispersed, the blast’s wild voice,
	is dumb?
She simply learned God’s mandates to obey,
	Has triumphed, and those ills are overcome.
’Tis good, with Sister Horne to celebrate
	This Anniversary of her blessed birth;
The victories she has gained to contemplate,
	Her lessons to recall, of priceless worth.
And then, to forward look, into that realm
	Of many mansions, where we hope to land;
In this life, finding nought that can o’erwhelm,
	No tests nor trials we cannot withstand.
To think, in that fair region of the blest,
	How good, how beautiful, sometime, to meet
Prsicilla, Persis. Dorcas, and the rest—
	The former Sisterhood with ours complete.
And then, I doubt not, we shall turn and say,
	We're glad that we were privileged to be
	born,
To learn and labor in this Latter-day,
	With our beloved and faithful M. I. Horne.
	L. Lula Greene Richards.


[Column 1]

