WOMAN’S FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
	[REPORT OF THE CONFERENCE OF THE
RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE HAWAIIAN
ISLANDS, HELD AT HONOLULU, SEP. 30TH,
1893.]
	CONTRARY to the usual custom, the
October Conference of the Relief Society, 
Sunday School and Improvement Associa-
tion were held in Honolulu together with
the Honolulu Branch Conference, instead
of at Laie; these Conferences were held a
week earlier than usual, in order to give
the Missionaries and the Saints time to re-
turn to Laie for general Conference. The
object in this change was to give those of
the Honolulu saints as well as many from
the other Islands, who have not animals or
conveyances to come to Laie, an op-
portunity of attending Conference and of
meeting with and listening to the teachings
of the Elders in a body.
	There was quite a family of us when we
were gathered together in our cosy little
Mission House at Honolulu, twenty in
number, and although somewhat crowded,
yet we felt happy and joyous and full of
the spirit of our mission.
	Saturday morning, Sep. 30th, at ten
o’clock the Relief Society of the Islands
convened in Conference, President Libbie
Noal presiding. After the usual opening
exercises, the reports for the last half year
were read by Secretary Kekuewa Nakuan
showing a membership of 498; number of
meetings held 337;  Receipts $297.45,
Disbursements $113.15;  Amount remain-
ing in Treasury $184.30.
	There were in all seventeen branches re-
ported, ten less than reported at our last
Conference, this deficiency is owing to the
fact that, through the moving about of the
Saints, many of the branches which other-
wise would be in a flourishing condition,
have not sufficient numbers to warrant an
organization.
	President Libbie Noal first addressed the
Conference; thanking the sisters for the
cordial reception extended, to the visiting
saints, for the interest manifested in the
work, as shown by the large attendance,
and for the spirit of love and good will
apparent in the hearts of the saints for the
Missionaries and for each other; dwelt up-
on the duties and obligations resting upon
the sisters as handmaids of the Lord; ex-
plained in detail many points relative to the
carrying on of the work of the organiza-
tion, that all might labor together as a unit,
and conduct their labors in a business-like
way.
	After listening to the verbal reports of
the condition of the various societies by
their respective “eleles,” or representatives,
several of the native sisters addressed the
Conference upon subjects previously as-
signed them and they handled them in a
very creditable and intelligent manner.
“The Life of Hannah, Mother of Samuel”
by Kaluapalaoa; “Mary, mother of Jesus”
by Kahuhu; “Life of Mary and Martha,
sisters of Lazarus,” by Niaulani.  “The
Woman of Samaria” by Ruth Kauahine.
Original song for the occasion by Kekuewa
Nakuan. Sister Maggie Davis spoke at
some length, explaining the object of the
society, the benefits derived from such an
organization and encouraging the sisters in


their labors. Sister Nellie Grace read an
essay upon the past, present and future of
Woman. Sisters Davis, Grace and Presi-
dent M. Noal favored the sisters with a
song, which they seemed to heartily enjoy.
The choir rendered a selection after each
speaker, which gave life and spirit to our
meeting.
	At the conclusion of the programme,
President M. Noal presented the names of
the general authorities of the Relief Society
before the Conference, all of whom were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Libbie Noal was sustained as
President of the Relief Society of the
Hawaiian Islands, with all of the Mission-
ary sisters as her counselors, and with
Kekuewa, Kahuhu, Kaluapalaoa, Niaulani
and Luka as Aids, Kekuewa as Recording
Secretary with Laeka as her assistant, Nel-
lie Grace, Corresponding Secretary and M.
Noal Treasurer. At the close of our Con-
ference, we adjourned to the basement of
the Meeting House, when we were bedeck-
ed with two and three beautiful flower
“Leis," and where we found a grand
Hawaiian Feast prepared for us, consisting
of poi, beef, pork and chicken, several
varities of fish, kalo, sweet potatoes, bread,
cake of different kinds, oranges, melons,
banannas, pineapples and soda-water, to all
of which we did ample justice, not forget-
ting to appreciate the love and respect
which prompted the saints of Honolulu to
thus look after our comfort and welfare
in such a substantial manner. Through
the labors of the missionary sisters, a
circular has been prepared, which is to be
distributed among the different branches
of the society containing general
instruction and directions, pertaining to the
duties of the different officers and which
will serve as a guide for the government
and managment of the respective branches
of the society; this will supply a want long
needed, as many of the organizations have
never been visited personally by the mis-
sionary sisters, although letters of counsel
and instruction have been sent out to every
branch upon the Islands.
	As a band of sisters, we are united and
happy in our labors here, and our hearts
desire is, that the Lord will bless us that
we may be useful instruments in his hands
in helping to better the condition of our
native sisters upon these Islands; that by
precept and example we may implant in
their hearts a desire to aspire to something
higher and nobler than they have yet at-
tained, and that they may feel they have
been made better by our presence among
them.
	Mrs. Nellie Grace, Cor. Sec.


