A FEW REFLECTIONS.

	IT was a charming and most pleasing
scene that met my gaze as I called at Sister
A’s one warm sunny afternoon,and the one
hour chit chat that followed was a source
of real pleasure and edification to me and
from which I will sketch a few lines, which
possibly may assist some poor tired over-
worked mother.
	Mrs. A. arose and bade me welcome
with one of her sweet motherly smiles,
Brother A. who was seated at the farther
end of their neat pretty sitting room busily
writing welcomed me in his usually abrupt,

[column 2]
precise yet gentlemanly; manner after the
first common everyday greetings had been
passed we gradually launched out and
touched upon subjects that much interested
me they being people of culture and refine-
ment I was conscious that here I might
learn a lesson that might be possibly a
future benefit to me and many others, as I
had often heard of her great magnanimous
sterling character and not unfrequently
heard her styled a noble mother in Israel,
and who could doubt it looking on that
calm unruffled face. 
	While speaking upon the past, present,
and future, she said, “In my native country
I had never been accustomed to hard
drudgery labor, being forced to resort to
this on my arrival here in Utah this became
a very severe trial, as I was not very strong
often I would weepover the wash tub as
felt my strength failing and almost give
up disheartened, then my better self would
come to my rescue and I would retire to an
old covered in wagon box and pray in secret
to my Heavenly Father for strength in that
great hour of trial.” She further said,
“I would then feel strengthened and per-
fectly able to finish the task allotted to me
and would even finish with a song on my
lips, I knew my Father had heard and
answered my prayer.” Mrs. A. continued
in her sweet winning way “to be cheerful at
work became a fixed rule and I felt well
repaid on hearing my husband once say to
a gentleman friend who had been complain-
ing of blue Monday,” “It isn’t so at our
house, my wife is always cheerful on that
day and I feel stimulated as I hear my
children say ‘mother always sings when
she has a difficult task to perform.”
	After a somewhat lengthy call, and I had
left this noble woman’s house, I felt much
satisfaction at the time well spent, and as the
result of my call many thoughts flashed
through my mind and I asked myself, how
many homes might be transformed into al-
most a paradise that are now cheerless if
Sister A’s. rule was but adopted. How
many wives might entice their husbands to
spend more time at home? How many
mothers their sons, if this were the case!
and then again how one thoroughly enjoys
a chat of this kind instead of the common,
flimsy everyday talk so common among
many. Indeed as I glance back I recall
another theme equally good and beautiful
given to me that afternoon.
	How deeply I regret my inability to gather
in and scatter abroad again the rich treasures
I discern on every side in life’s pathway.
	Onward and upward the stairway of
knowledge, as I sit here alone at midnight’s
quiet hour, a sigh wells up from the heart
at the thought how slow the progress.
	In July 15th, of the EXPONENT
“Camelia” refers to the convenience of a
note-book a great many echo that feeling.
We cannot have  too many “Passing
Thoughts” they are charming, one good
sister says they alone are worth the one
dollar subscription fee, so full of good com-
mon sense are they.			IDA HAAG.
	Woodland Aug. 6th, 1893.


