U. W. P. CLUB.
	THE U. W. P. C. met as usual October
31st, with an extra number of mem-
bers in attendance, Mrs. E. B. Wells, the
President for the past two years, in the
chair.
	After an opening prayer by Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young the reading of minutes and roll
call, the Halloween program was carried
out as follows.
	Mrs. Ella W. Hyde read a paper stating
the Origin and Meaning of the observance,
which dated back to a very early period.
A number of the members gave interesting
descriptions of the superstitious rites and
ceremonies of the harvest festival which is
celebrated, not only in Scotland, but in
England and America alike, and many
pretty festive home pictures were presented
to the imagination of those present.
	Mrs. Phebe C. Young read Burns’ poem
on the subject. Miss Pearl Russell
favored the club with a vocal selection, fol-
lowed by Miss Belle Salmon who recited a
Scotch selection and when encored respond-
ed with that most-humorous selection “The
Mouse.” Mrs. Z. D. H. Young told an
interesting Halloween story in which the
magic or charm practiced really ended
propitiously for the parties concerned.
“Alonzo the Brave.” was read by Mrs.
Lizzie S. Wilcox. Mrs. E. B. Wells read
a paper relating to the ancient Druids and
Druidesses and their observance of the 31st
of October; it being the eve on which all
fires and lights were extinguished to be
rekindled from the sacred fire at the Altar
on the payment of the yearly tithes or dues
exacted by the priests. Other stories of
various degrees of interest and weird-
ness were read or related as befitting the
evening and occasion. Miss Maude Pratt
then favored the club with instrumental 
music.
	Refreshments were served during a short
intermission, after which the annual election
of officers was effected by ballot. Miss
Patterson introduced a resolution to the
effect that Mrs. E. B. Wells who had so
efficiently filled the position of President,
for the past two years, and who had been
ever foremost in promoting the interests of
the club, should be sustained as honorary
President for life. The question was put
and the resolution unanimously carried.
Mrs. Wells made a short but fitting speach
in which she thanked the members, Miss
Patterson especially, for the honor shown
her and the confidence reposed in her. The
reading of the votes by the Secretary show-
ed the following officers elected.
	President, Ellis R. Shipp, 1st Vice, Prest.
Ruth M. Fox, 2nd Vice Prest, Mary A. Freeze
Rec. Sec. Gladys Woodmansee Asst. Rec.
Sec’y, Ella W. Hyde Cor. Secy, Romania
B. Pratt, Asst, Cor Sec’y, Lydia D. Alder,
Treasurer C. C. R. Wells, program Com-
mittee, Chairman,, Lizzie S. Wilcox, Ada
Patterson, Phebe C. Young. Vice presi-


dents at large A. J. Crocheron, J. A.
McDonald, L. L. Dalton and A. E. Ben-
nion, M. E. Shipp Auditor.
