DAVIS CO. W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	THE Convention met at 2 p. m. in the
meeting house at Farmington, President
Lucy A. Clark in the chair. Oct. 27, 1893.
	Singing "Wyoming" from the Suffrage
Song book. "Proud State of the Union,
we love thee, A symbol of Justice thy
name; The folds of our flag wave above
thee, The star of thy greatness to claim."
etc.
	Prayer by Susan Grant. Singing, "Our
country now from thee, We claim our
liberty in freedom's name."
	The minutes of the last annual conven-
tion were read and approved also the
financial report.
	Dora Wessels, Helen Perkins, and Mary
Millard were appointed a committee on
credentials and reported the following named
ladies entitled to seats in the convention:
	Kaysville, Minnie Williams, Ellen Bar-
ton, Sarah B. Layton, Jane Blood, R.
Mansel and Dora Wessels; Farmington,
Elizabeth Coombs, Helen M. Miller, Clara
Stayner, Aurelia S. Rogers and Mary Mil-
lard: Centreville, Margaret Randall; East
Bountiful, Jane Holt; West Bountiful,
Martha Fackrell and Helen Perkins; South
Bountiful, Mary Ann Page, Eliza Nelson,
Maria Hatch, Sarah Howard, Emma Moss,
Phoebe Hales and Rhoda Atkinson. 
	Speeches were made by President Min-
nie Williams, of Kaysville, President
Elizabeth Coombs, of Farmington, Vice-
President Margaret Randall, of Centreville,
President Martha Fackrell, of West Bounti-
ful, Jane Holt, East, and Mary Ann Page,
of South Bountiful.
	Those who had held meetings in their
precincts reported that they had made some
progress in the study of civil government,
history, politics, etc.
	The following officers were elected:
President, Lucy A. Clark; Vice Presidents,
Lizzie Smith, Rose Hatch and Dora Wes-
sels. Secretary Leone Rogers, correspond-
ing Secretary, Hattie Knowlton; Treasurer,
Mary Millard. Auditors, M. E. Knowlton
and Julia Hess. Chairman of executive
committee, Athalia Steed, members of com-
mittee, Minnie Williams, Elizabeth Coombs,

[Column 2]
Margaret Randall, Alice Neville, Maria
Hatch and Ellen Perkins.
	Honorary Vice Presidents, Susan Grant,
Jane Holt, Mary S. Clark, Sarah B.  Lay-
ton, Martha Fackrell and Aurelia S.
Rogers. 
	President L. A. Clark said she was proud
of the record of Woman Suffrage in Utah;
they hold the second place in the nation,
New York being the only state that has an
association with a greater membership,
spoke of the progress of women of the
present day.
	While in Chicago attending the con-
gress of representative women, the grandest
gathering of women ever recorded in the
history of the world, was present at a ses-
sion when fourteen national associations
were represented and two of the fourteen
had head quarters in Utah.
	The National R. S. and the National Y.
L. M. I. Associations. And by comparing
statistics and reports, showed that there
were more organized women in Utah than
in any of the other states or territories.
Truly the advancement of woman will ad-
vance human happiness and prosperity.
Every step she has gained has been ac-
complished not by force or compulsion, for
she works her revolution, with the weapons
of peace and love and with such weapons
of defense her advance may be slow but
must eventually be sure.
	May the flames of equality, that have
been kindled in your bosoms, continue to 
burn steadily and true until all the icebergs
of prejudice with which you are surrounded
shall have melted away, and, "Hasten the
day when freedom's proud banner, pro-
tecting no tyrant shall shadow no slave."
	Song: "The song that reached my
heart," was sweetly rendered by Minnie
Williams, of Kaysville. Essay "Woman
versus Man," by Aurelia S. Rogers. Or-
gan solo by Ella Barton, of Kaysville.
	After singing and benediction the con-
vention adjourned.


