SAN LUIS STAKE, COLORADO.  
	THE Relief Society Conference of the
San Luis Stake of Zion convened in the
Sanford meeting house Sep. 10th, 1893.
	President Cornelia Mortensen presiding,
conference opened with singing “The time
is nigh.” Prayer was offered by Brother
George W. Irvin and choir sang, “Lift up
your heads ye scattered Saints.”
	President C. Mortensen said we had met
this morning to have our Conference, prayed


[Column 1]
for the Spirit of God to be with us that we
may be fed with the bread of life. Was
much pleased to see so many present.
	Sister Sophia Holt gave a brief report
of Manassa ward, said but a small percent-
age of those enrolled attended, but those
who did come enjoyed their meetings and
the Spirit of God was with them.
	Sister Cary Jensen gave a favorable re-
port of Richfield Ward, showing their
desire to do all the good they could.
	Sister Sena Heiselt spoke encouragingly
to the sisters and bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Margaret Haskell, Stake President
of the Primary Association, made some
very interesting remarks concerning the
necessity of having our children taught
the way to life and salvation,and the duties
of mothers in this respect.
	Bishop John Dalton of Manassa said “In
meeting with the brethren and sisters in
this conference today I am reminded of the
stone referred to by Daniel the Prophet,
that should be cut out without hands and
roll over the whole earth it surely is being
done.”
	Counselor Jane Crowther spoke of the
great blessings the Relief Society is to
the poor and sick, said it is one of the
greatest worksin our midst.
	Sister Emily Dunn gave a very good re-
port of East Dale Branch.
	Statistical and Financial Report, of the
Stake was read by the Secretary.
	Sister Martha E. Smith spoke a short
time showing the necessity of prayer.
	Sister Jane Hostetter expressed her joy
at being gathered, with the Saints and refer-
ed to the great contrast between the dark-
ness that prevailed in the world and the
light of the Gospel.
	Sister Stover dwelt at length upon the
necessity of parents setting worthy ex-
amples before their children, and gaining
their confidence in order to have an influence
over them.
	Singing “Earth wtth her ten thousand
flowers.” Benediction by Brother Christen
Jensen.
	ALTERNOON MEETING.—Singing “My
God the spring of all my joys” etc. Prayer
by Brother Levi P. Helm. Singing “Be-
hold the mountain of the Lord" etc. Sac-
rament was administered.
	President Albert R. Smith said a good
spirit was in our midst, the Relief Society
is a great work in this church.” The Lord
has given his spirit to every soul that has
been born, and being inspired by him many
have been led to do good to their fellowmen.
This is the case with the sisters, they go
about ministering comfort and help to the
poor, sick and downcast. It is the duty of
husbands to sustain them with means to do
this and I think they do. The sisters have
many callings and much to learn, to know
how to raise their children in the ways of
God.”
	Sister M. A. R. White gave a good and
encouraging report of the Primary Associa-
tion of Sanford. She expressed her joy for
the faithfulness of the sisters in visiting the
primary meetings.
	Sister Hannah Christensen gave a good
report of the Primary Association of
Manassa and spoke of the necessity of being
dictated by the Spirit of God in performing
our duties in this church. The Church and
Stake officers of the Relief Society were
presented by the Secretary and unanimously
sustained.

[Column 2]
	Sister V. Helm spoke a short time and
bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel.
	Counselor Magdaline Funk expressed
her joy at being present on this occasion
and partaking of the good spirit here
with us today. Spoke at length upon the
great responsibilities resting upon mothers
in raising their families in righteousness
and the duties of children to their parents,
urged every sister to have her name enrolled
in the Relief Society, and let nothing but
sickness prevent her from beings at meet-
ings.
	Stake President C. Mortensen represented
the Relief Society of Sanford in the absence
of the president and gave a very favorable
report of the sisters. She showed the
necessity of being very humble and said
we should have a prayer in our hearts
continually so we may be able to teach our
children to go forward in life. Whatever
influence is given the mother by the hus-
band is given the children by the mother.
Laying up wheat is a duty that should be
complied with as it has always been urged
by the leading sisters of the Relief Society.
	Counselor George W. Irvin of Sanford
made a few encouraging remarks to the
sisters of the Relief Society.
	Conference was adjourned for six months.
Singing “Now let us rejoice” etc. Benedic-
tion by Brother T. A. Crowther.
	MARY F. Crowther. Sec.
	REORGANIZATION.
	Owing to the resignation of Sister
Martha E. Smith which occurred at our
conference last March our Stake officers
have been reorganized as follows,
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen was set apart
as president with Sister Magdaline Funk
as first and Sister Jane Crowther as second
counselor and Mary F. Crowther as
secretary.
	During the summer season we have
visited the different branches and found all
in a flourishing condition and enjoyed our
visit very much. M.F. C.


