PERFECTION.

	CAN we arrive at perfection in this life,
is the question. Well our Savior said,
“Be ye perfect as your Father in Heaven is
perfect.” The word of the Lord through

[column 2]
his prophet Moses, said “be holy for I am
holy.’’
	The question arises, would He ask you
or I to do that which we could not do, you
know that in all the rules of Arithmetic
those who are perfectly acquainted with the
rules can solve the difficult problem alike,
and to the satisfaction of the teacher. Can-
not the rules or laws of life be accomplished
on the same principle? Believing this life
is a school, it is well to give strict heed to
our lessons that we may profit by them.
The holy Bible being our guide, not only
so, but the Book of Mormon also Doctrine
and Covenants. The Epistle of St. Peter
beautifully illustrates this lesson: as we
read in 20th, chapter 1st, Epistle “Where-
fore lay aside all malice and guile, and evil
speaking, as new born babes desire the
sincere milk of the word that ye may grow
thereby.’’
	Now I would ask, do not we feel greatly
blessed when we can realize that we are
growing in a knowledge of the truth in
Christ Jesus, and can see the designs and
purposes of God our Father concerning the
human family, to fit and qualify them to
come again into His presence, where we
must give an account how we have spent
our talents and our time.
	Also the 22nd, verse of 1st chapter same
Epistle. How encouragingly he speaks to
those who have begun the good work: he
says ‘‘seeing ye have purified your souls in
obeying the truth through the Spirit unto
unfeigned love for the brethren, see that
ye love one another with a pure heart
fervently,’’ (5th chapter, 5th verse) he says
also, “Likewise ye younger submit your-
selves unto the elder, yea, all be subject one
to the other, and be clothed with humility:
for God resisteth the proud and giveth
grace to the humble. Humble yourselves
under the mighty hand of God that He
may exalt you in due time.”
	Pardon me when I say, it annoys me to
hear our people say they are proud of this
or that. I feel to ask when did they get
this privilege of being proud of anything,
since the ancients always are cautioning
their people to beware of pride as some-
thing dangerous.
	Please read 10th, chapter of St. Luke
where Jesus sent out the Seventy to preach
the gospel, and in 17th verse they return
telling of their success, saying “Lord even
the devils are subject to us through thy
name.” After he makes a few remarks,
he says 20th, verse “Rejoice not that the
devils are subject to you; but rather re-
joice because your names are written in
heaven.”
	Jesus himself gained the victory and they
had no reason to be proud of this success.
Yet I think in these one would hear of some
who would think they had a right to be
proud of such success. Let such be care-
ful lest their feet slip as Lucifer designs
they shall.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith also said in
Doctrine and Covenants, “Beware of pride
for it bringeth a snare upon your souls:”
Are we careful as we should be to be safe
from this snare? This is the question I
often ask myself, for human nature is
weak at best, and only when living to and 
measuring ourselves by the golden rule are
we perfectly safe. It is when I compare
the Latterday Saints with those of former
days that my fears are aroused upon this
subject.
