LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-monthly meeting
held in the 14th, Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 21, 1893.  President M. I. Horne
presiding.  Opened by singing "O, say
what is truth” &c. Prayer by Sister
Julia Pack continued by singing “Our
God we raise to thee" &c.
	Minutes of last meeting read and ap-
proved, minutes of a concert held in the
15th, ward also those of a Primary held
there, read by a little girl.
	President Horne said she was pleased
with the minutes read by the little girl and
glad to hear the young voice in our midst.
	President Horne spoke of the death of
Sister Fletcher, President of the Relief
Society of the 8th ward, said she had been
a true and faithful Latter-day saint, a good
worker and had discharged every duty,
that had devolved upon her and had gone
to her reward, said she would come forth in
the morning of the first resurrection
crowned with honor and glory.  I have
thought much upon the sphere of woman
her mission and duties.
	The prophet Joseph when he sent the
missionaries out to preach the Gospel,
told them not to pull a man’s house down,
until they had built him a better one.  Now
have thought much on some women, who
want positions and do not appreciate being a
wife and mother.
	Woman should make her home happy
and beautify it, also take care of the little
ones who are given unto us.  Who fashions
the little garments, who makes the clothing
to lay out the dead, who sew the veil of the
Temple?  Do not women do all these
things?  We should meet together and have
our minds enlarged, and become more in-
telligent, so that we could perform all these
labors better.
	Our duties are not inferior to man’s, but
our natures are different and our missions
are different.  Do not women bear the
souls of men?  The highest mission that
can be given.  Is not her kingdom her
home? To keep that home orderly and
well needs as much intelligence as any one
can attain to.  She is a helpmate to her
husband, and all honor to her in her sphere.
	Remember these things sisters and let us
teach our daughters to be self-reliant and
industrious.  President Horne gave other
wise counsel, and prayed that the spirit of
God would be with us.
	Sister Hurst of Pleasant Green, bore a
faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel and desired to be faithful and true.
	Sister E. Stevenson, said I feel to say
God bless Sister Horne, she is a noble wo-
man and a faithful mother. I feel to endorse
what she has said to day.  Let us teach our
children to seek unto God, in their selec-
tions in marriage we can be so tried in
this way.  Let us adorn our spiritual
natures and be partakers of the Spirit of
God &c.
	Sister Mary P. Silver announced that the
sister who had been emigrated from the old
world had arrived, and was glad to be in
Zion.
	Sister Minnie Cook spoke of the wondeful
dealings of God to her and felt to praise
His Holy name.
	Sister M. L. Morris bore her testimony
and spoke of the many duties devolving up-
on a woman, added other good remarks.
	Sang Doxology, meeting was adjourned
for two weeks.  Benediction by Counselor
Webb. 	L. D. ALDER, Acting Sec.


