IN MEMORIAM.

	IT is with deep regret, that we record the death
of our beloved President, Esther B. Fletcher,
who departed this life September 30, 1893, after
an illness of nine days.
	Sister Fletcher was born in Mass, where
she embraced the Gospel, and with her family
gathered with the saints in Kanesville on the
Missouri River, and in 1850 arrived in Salt Lake
City, and settled in the 8th, Ward, where she re-
sided until the day of her death. Her husband
died shortly after her arrival, and she was after-
ward united in plural marriage to Brother Royal
Barney.
	She was the mother of nine children, seven of
whom survive her, and are honorable members of
the Church of Jesus Christ.
	She held many responsible positions, being
appointed a teacher in the early organization of
the Relief Society about the year 1852, and again
to the same office, at the general organization
about 1867, she was afterward appointed secre-
tary, and again counselor, which position she
filled with great satisfaction, and in 1882, she was
set anart as President, the duties of which office
she faithfully performed until the time of her
death.
	She was president of the Primary Association
for seven years and a half; and in the early days
of Utah, taught school, she did a great work for
her dead ancestors in the St. George and Salt
ake City Temples showing her life to be filled
with good works. She was a woman of great in-
tegrity full of love for the principles of the Gos-
pel, never swerving, firm and steadfast. May
her children, with whom we sympathize, follow
in her footsteps, and may we her co-laborers,
emulate her virtues, and profit by her good
example,
	C. K. Palmer, President.
	S.J. Chamberlain,   
	Jane Cowan,  Counselors.
	J. Mortenson Sec’y.
	E. E. Frost, Treasurer.
IN memory of Sister Louisa E. Young who
died Sept. 18, 1893, aged 30 years, she leaves a
husband, six small children and a host of friends
to mourn her loss. Where-as in the Providence
of God with His unbounded wisdom, we have been 
deprived of the companionship, help and as-
sociation of Sister Louisa E. Young a faithful
officer and member of the Relief Society;
	Resolved—That we tender our deepest love
and sympathy to the memory of the dear de-
parted.
	Resolved—That in this great bereavement we
acknowledge the hand of God, and bow to the
nevitable, but realize that in her we have lost an
able and loving associate, whose charities, talents
and charms endeared her to us all.
	Resolved—That we tender our love and sym-
pathy to the bereaved, especially to the dear
husband and children, may the spirit of conso-
lation, peace, and comfort attend them in this
hour of affliction.
	Resolved—That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the Relief Society Record and a copy
sent to the bereaved, also'a copy to the Ex-
ponent.
	“And you shall shortly know that lengthened
		breath,
Is not the sweetest gift God sends his friend,
And that sometimes the sable pall of death,
Conceals the fairest boon His love can send.
If we could push ajar the gates of life,
And stand within, and all God’s working see, 
We could interpret all this doubt and strife,
And for each mystery could find a key.
We know that her trials are oe’r,
	Weep not that her race is run.
God grant we may rest as calm,
When our work, like her’s is done.
		Naomi R. Theobald, President.
		M. A. Davis, Secretary.
Hinckley, Millard Co.

