ing, your hearts light, may the Holy Spirit
comfort you and gladden your souls, impart
to others, your sisters and associates in this
work, the good things you have heard here
and during the Conference that has just
closed.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the love she felt for the sisters, and blessed
them in her tender motherly way, referred
to her visit to Chicago and the many
noble women she met there, knew that
they were working for the good of their
sex. Joseph the Prophet had turned the
key of knowledge for all women, and ever
since that time woman's influence had been
greater in all directions for good. Presi-
dent Young then said she wished to in-
crease the sphere of usefulness of the
sisters who were presiding in the several
stakes and have them become aids to the
General Presidency of the Relief Society
to herself and her Counselors, that they
might visit among the adjacent Stakes of
Zion either by invitation or appointment,
stated that it was sometimes impossible for
her or either of her Counselers to attend
the Sisters' Conferences that were remote
from here and in this way it might be
beneficial to those at a distance to have the
President or Presidents near attend each
others Conferences, much good might be
effected by the interchange of ideas and
thoughts, and it would promote greater
union and love by becoming familiarly
acquainted with each others' labors, she had
been inspired to give this counsel; it had
come to her like a power and a glow and
joy, and she added "if you do this you will
have joy in your labors, and in cooperating
together and it will increase faith and a
better understanding of our great work
and give us renewed strength to perform
our duties. It is our privilege to be hum-
ble and faithful and if we are we shall be
prepared for all our duties, the Lord bless
you my dear sisters and give you his Holy
Spirit for your guide.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
felt we had enjoyed a feast of fat things,
said in that county the sisters had nearly a
thousand bushels of wheat not much
chance to glean now as they did formerly


because of the machinery taking up the
grain so clean, that none was left for glean-
ing, Sister Hyde made other excellent re-
marks.
	President Sarah M. Kimball thought of
many subjects that might be presented, but
felt time was short, spoke of the little fund
the sisters laid up, a missionary fund in fact,
though the means should be used wisely
and for improvement, mentally, spiritually
and financially, thought the Lord would
not give us means, if we did not make a
success, there were many things that made
us feel akin and and reach out to all the
brotherhood of man and the sisterhood of
woman. Referred specially to the meeting
of the Woman's Congress held on Sunday
in the Art Palace in one of the great halls,
when sixteen ordained women ministers
sat upon the platform representing thirteen
denominations, one was clad in the sacer-
dotal robes of the Episcopal Church, it was
a beautiful sight to see these grand women
thus assembled; the speaker asked the
Lord to bless and restore Sister Richards
(who had not been able to come to the con-
ference) and to bless Brother Richards who
had done so much to elevate woman and to
help us all in the Relief Society; said a few
words in regard to women speaking at
the funerals of the sisters thought it was
quite proper that they should.
	At the close of the Conference, Apostle
Richards made a few appropriate remarks,
said Sister Young's inspiration concerning
the Presidents of Stakes was timely," two
or three visit together in convenient local-
ities, invite each other, and so on, it will be
a mutual benefit and there will be a corps of
laborers under the direction of the President
and her Counselors. The sisters of the
Relief Society are laborers and mothers in
Israel in thought and experience; and
women are more inclined to be
spiritual-minded, than the brethren,
and are more refined,—we have a fore-
taste here of the life that is to come, would
like to mention the National Woman's Relief
Society, you have in it a legal organization
of holding property in the Society; some of us
are afraid of the name, we have grown a
little, and we have a right to the name,
that should not alter the spirit but
strengthen the work, men have been or-
ganized into an Ecelesiatical organization in
wards also stake organizations, it has not
altered things at all, neither will it with
you, but put you into a position to hold
your property, these corporate powers
ought not to confuse you, or lead to differ-
ences: Constantine the Emperor turned over
everything to the law, we have as a society
become national and perhaps will be In-
ternational, this society is a great body and
is of some consequence and standing among
other great Associations, and the name
should correspond." President Richards
then announced the Rev. Howis lecture on
music and morals to be given in the evening
at that place. Singing "Lord Dismiss us
with thy Blessing." Benediction by Apos-
tle F. D. Richards. Conferenoe adjourn-
ed for six months.


