SENORITA de ALCALA.

	AT our state University a new chair
has been created this year it is that of 
Spanish and Italian Languages. The first
person to fill this office is Senorita de
Alcala (with the accent on the last syllable)
a woman with a most remarkable and varied
career. The present craze for studying
Spanish is the result of the Pan-American
congress and reciprocity movement. This
new Pro-ance sat as a student in nearly the
same spot where she now holds forth to
large and earnest classes composed of Post
graduates largely and many college profes-
sors. There is a belief, that the senorita is
of noble Spanish lineage, but it is not cer-
tain what her father’s rank was. Senor
Louis de Alcala was her father, a general
under Don Carlos, her mother Mariede
Molina born in Granada. The child was
born in Madrid and much of her childhood
was spent in Granada and Arvela. The
mother died when the child was seven
years old, shortly afterward little Caddino
began her wanderings under the protection
of her guardian. Alphonzo displaced Don
Carlos and for fourteen years the family
were in exile. The father fell in the
war and the daughter came to America
with her guardian, but in New York the
guardian died and Senorita was placed in a
convent, after studying there for a short time,
she went to Ohio, after a short stay she
came to Minnesota and entered the state
University, after some years of study she
returned to Europe and pursued her studies
in the University of Berlin and Bonn on
the Rhine and took public examinations
with the men, a thing no other Spanish
woman has ever done; she studied French
at Paris also Bellesletters teaching at
the same time many private pupils, she
became a finished classical student and mis-


tress of French, German, English and
Italian.
	It was at this time she was called to the
court of King Kalakua of Hawaiian Islands
to be the instructor of Princess Kaiulaui
the daughter of the King’s sister,she lived
in the palace and enjoyed for some time that
most delightful climate; after the death of
the princess’s mother Senorita Alcala went
to Central America and started a private
school in Guatemala. In personal appear-
ance she is rather petite her eyes are large
dark and eloquent, hair purplish black,com-
plexion olive. She speaks with a most
fascinating accent, she is cosmopolitan in
thought, she perfers to live in Venice of all
places, after that in Bonn on the Rhine.
	She thinks America the place for women
to live in who desire a higher education
and freedom of progress, she says that
English women are not superior to American
women on the contrary they are behind
them in general culture and emancipation,
she talks most entertainingly of the customs
for women in different countries and it
makes the listener glad and proud that she
lives in free America.
Minneapolis.


