HISTORICAL SKETCH.

(Of the life of Mrs. M. Isabella Horne.)

	ON this eventful day the Seventy Fifth
anniversary of the birth of our beloved
President, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, my
memory goes back over the vista of years
and I think of her as I first knew her. Al-
ways a faithful friend, a true saint, and a
steadfast, worker in the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latterday Saints.
	President Horne had the honor of be-
longing to the Relief Society in Nauvoo,
which was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had the  unspeakable pleasure
of listening to the melody of his voice,
giving instruction to the daughters of Zion,
he having turned the key for the redemption
of woman. Since that day she has had
the privilege of seeing her sister woman,
gradually climb upward and onward, un-
til now she holds a position of honor, by
the side of her brother man. Long and
oft has this friend of woman, raised her
voice in exhortation, instruction and love,
to her sisters, many of whom can testify,

[Column 2]
that from her lips has fallen the soft Words
that first caused them to think, and
inspired in them the desire to reach out to
more glorious possibilities of intelligence
and progress. Her instructions to maid
wife and mother, explaining the mission of
woman, in bearing the souls of men, her
duties to them, her home and her husband,
are beyond price. And may she yet live to
see all her desires in this respect fulfilled.
	When the Relief Society was reorganized
in these valleys after the move South in
1858, Mrs. Horne was chosen by Bishop A.
Hoagland, to preside over the Society in
the 14th, Ward. This occured on Dec. 12,
1867. Under her wise management the
Society prospered. The poor were relieved,
the distressed comforted, and yet means
gathered up in the treasury. After a time
the building known as “The Relief Society
Hall,” was erected. A granary and a
quantity of wheat was next added, and
blessings attended all the efforts of the
sisters.
	President Brigham Young, having great
confidence, in President Horne, placed on
her another important mission in the latter
part of the year 1869. This was known as
the Retrenchment movement. A meeting
was called in the 15th, Ward Relief Society
Hall—President Young met with and in-
structed the sisters in their duties in this
respect and many blessings were promised
them in their labors. This meeting was
adjourned to the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, where an organization was effected,
with Sister M. I. Horne as President with
Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina D. H. Young,
Bathsheba W. Smith, Margaret T. Smoot,
Phebe W. Woodruff, Marinda W. Hyde
and Sarah M. Kimball as Counselors.
Lydia D. Alder was chosen as Secretary.
	Out of this organization, grew the 
regular Semi-monthly meetings of today
which have been held in the 14th Ward,
regularly ever since.
	President M. I. Horne was appointed to
preside over the Relief Society of this Stake
of Zion, Dec. 1877.
	In the month of November 1890, Pres’t.
Horne was elected President of the board,
of directors of the Woman’s Co-op store,
all of which positions she holds at the
present time, except that of President of
the Relief Society of the 14th, Ward, she
having resigned the position, and since
moved to the 18th, Ward.
	May her days be lengthened, that she-
may realize all her righteous desires, then
when her tired feet shall rest in the Golden 
City, may she enjoy the reward of the true
and faithful.


Affectionately Inscribed to Mrs. M . Horne on.
her Seventy Fifth Birthday.

How beautiful the sinking sun
	Sets in the darkening West;
’Mid fiery clouds of red and gold  
	it slowly goes to rest.
The day has been a weary one,
	Mayhap so full of care—
Now soothingly the shadows fall,
	And rest breathes everywhere.
The morn was full of promise—
	The noon the battle brought,
The evening is so glorious—
	With blessings ever fraught.
So life goes down at even
	Like to the setting sun—
The day of battle over—
		The laurels fairly won.


Then comes the bright to-morrow
	The sun shines forth again— 
Earth’s children rise to labor, 
	Their blessings to obtain,
And on life’s fair to-morrow
	The great Millennial day, 
May we all meet in Heaven
	Whence none will ever stray.
But with the blest Redeemer,
	And Father good and true
May we walk the fields Elysian 
	Each beauty ever new.
Loved sister, friend and mother 
	May we who’ve sought on earth
To live the life Celestial
	Receive a Heavenly birth.
Lovingly,
