		(DANISH SOCIETY OF WOMEN.)

	IT is twenty years since ‘‘Dausk Koin-
desamfund” was founded. By glancing
over what has been done during these years,
let us judge if this society has vital power
enough to subsist and a right to do so.
	“The society was founded at my wife’s
working table,’’ Mr. Frederick Bayer has
said, and certainly it was he and his wife,
who together with Caroline Testman took
the initiative. That this epoch coincides
with the opening of our new literary era
was certainly no chance. Brandes'  trans-
lation of Stuart Mill’s, “The Subjection of
Women,’’ had just appeared and not only
aroused new thoughts in many minds, but
also kindled serious thoughts among the
earlier friends of the cause of women. The
turn matters took here, and the way in
which it was started, shows clearly the in-
fluence of two high-minded women, Ma-
thilda Fibiger and Pauline Worm.
	The first under the assumed name of
Clara Raphael, with the boldness of nine-
teen years, had discussed questions of every
kind as to the relation between men and
women, but had been pushed back so
severely by harsh and narrow-minded
criticism, that she had given up almost all
literary occupation. With true womanly
perseverance, she then gave all her
strength to practical concerns and became
our first woman telegrapher. Something
unusual and brilliant in her literary debut
had shown the public, that a “cause of
woman” existed. The intense zeal with
which she adapted herself to smaller tasks,
so deeply impressed some few women with
whom she afterwards came into contact,
that through them it influenced the work
here for the cause.
	“The worshipping of women,” she says,
“has continued in our country longer than
elsewhere. To be a fellow-citizen, a fellow-
worker, is no very attractive idea to her,
who has been told that she is the inspiring
principle in life.” Accordingly the first
thing a Danish society of women had to do
was to teach women to work to gain the

[Column 2]
inner independence, while struggling for
the outward one.
	Pauline Worm has in her excellent novel,
“De Fornuftige” (sensible people), shown
how a young woman, with higher aims
than her fellow sisters, sinks exhausted
with the struggle; the authoress herself
wore out her strength as a school mistress 
in a provincial town. She did not, how-
ever, neglect any occasion for showing the
injustice toward woman. The seed she had
sown by her energetic and untiring work,
was in due time reaped by women, who
continued her work and tried to make the
cause of women what she always desired it
to be: the cause of the whole nation.
	These two pioneers immediately enlisted
themselves as common workers in the so-
ciety, though Mathilda Fibiger died the
year after its formation.
	There was enough to do, and the direc-
tion missed no opportunity which was pre-
sented. It struggled for the forming of a
woman’s book-club reading-room (Koinde-
lig Loseforening,) and when later this idea
was realized by others, it supported this
institution, which had hard times at first.
Though pecuniary means were but small,
it gave help to some of our earliest women
students. For years it held a Sunday-
school for working women. But its special
aim was the founding of professional
schools for women and it could scarcely
have done anything more appropriate. By
the assistance of both private and public
means our first commercial school (Manager
C. Testman) was founded in 1872, and in
1875 Women’s Drawing School (Manager
Charlotte Klein.)
	Besides these educational aims, the
direction continually kept an eye on differ-
ent points of our legislation, where women
are wronged. By discussions with pro-
minent lawyers we had tried to rouse some
interest as to equalization of man and
woman in pecuniary matters, and by
petitions to Government and Parliament to
effect some ameliorations in this respect, as
well as more protection for wives against
ill-treatment by their hnsbands. As a re-
sult of these exertions may be named the
law of Mr. Bayer, May, 1880, which gave
married women the free disposal of their
own gains; it was supported by a petition
from the Women’s Society, signed by 2,700
women.
	In the meantime, the way was being
cleared for the spreading of its ideas in
wider circles. Hoctrup, Bjornson, Ibsen
had in different manners treated the woman
question, and made every reading person
in Scandinavia think about it and speak of
it; and a powerful political motion all over
the country had roused the scene of spirit-
ual, and especially social questions. Thus
the right epoch had come, and a lively
agitation for the cause began. The means
used were lectures, ppamplets, and from
1885, the monthly review: Koin den og
Samfundet (Woman and Society.) For
country colleges and debating societies,
lecturers were continually wanted and sent
from “Danish Society of Women.” Some
years about 100 lectures were given. Of
pamphlets, one especially, “The Woman
Cause,” by Astrid Stampe, was spread all
over the country in many thousand copies.
The effect of this agitation was soon seen,
and in a few years the number of members
was augmented from 128 to more than
1,000.
	Among the many various themes, which
have been treated verbally or by letter, we


may name especially: the legal position of
wives, woman’s right to gain her bread,
woman’s situation in public life, the legal
position of illegitimate children and their
mothers, the cause of maid servants, and
the moral question. Both by discussing
separately with the members of our Parlia-
ment and by sending petitions to Govern-
ment and Parliament we supported different
bills, of which two were made laws: First,
the proposition as to amelioration of the
position of illegitimate children and their
mothers, and second, inspection of the
treatment of foster children.
	It cannot be doubted that we have done
a considerable share in bringing about the
altered public opinion, which has in the
later years manifested itself. We have not,
however, any more than in other countries
succeeding in organizing the friends of the
cause to a compact unity. New societies
were formed, both in the capital and in the
provinces, some of which did not conform
with the society at Copenhagen, and in dis-
cussions occasioned by this, serious differ-
ences of opinion within the society itself
were manifested and partly checked its
working. So in 1887, a great common
meeting was summoned by some members,
who wanted to have annihilated that
paragraph of the laws, which started the
exigence of equalization. The direction
thought it right to give way to the majority
in order not to hurt practical work, which
was going on and considered more impor-
tant. Some months after, an extraordinary
meeting was held, which wanted the
direction to promise to stop the debating of 
the moral equalization of men and women
as something beyond the aims of the society. 
The direction, however, maintained that
free discussion of everything touching the
interests of women, the moral question too,
is a vital condition for the society. This
opinion was strongly supported by the
majority of the members. The second
proposition of the opposition was that the
society should chiefly work for practical
aims. With this the direction could per-
fectly well conform, this being in reality its
own point of view.
	By opening a bureau for the hiring of
maid servants we tried to make better the
situation  of maid servants, who often
suffered bad treatment at unauthorized hir-
ing offices; and such offices have, in con-
sequence of our exertions, been abolished.
By a bureau of engagement for other
women—such as governesses, housekeepers,
etc.—and by the opening of a bureau, which 
gives advice and explanations, practical and
legal, we have also tried to support women.
A fund has been founded in memory of
Mrs. Rovsing (one of the directors) with
the aim of giving professional training to 
young women. Besides, we have worked
with more or less success to open new
situations to women—farming, horticulture,
stenography, etc. A committee has made
plans for teaching cooking to girls in
common schools, and we now wait for the
resolution of the school authorities in this
matter. Another committee has under-
taken careful inquiries as to the economical
situation of working women of every kind
in Copenhagen. For the present we want
to form a professional school for seam-
stresses. By lectures about the human
body,by a book about "rational dress" and by
occasionally exhibiting models of dresses,
we have also worked for the development
of woman’s health and power to work.

[column 2]
	As to greater reforms in legislature, the
society considers woman’s acquirement of
municipal rights to be the most pressing.
A petition to Government and Parliament,
signed by more than 20,000 women all
over the country, has been sent in, and we
have tried by interpellations at elections, by
discussions in our monthly Review and by
public meetings to keep the interest awake
as to this and other reforms, because we
think that the time cannot be far off when
the place in society, which theoretically can-
not any more be denied to woman, will in
reality be given her.
	Women, however, form as yet a class of
proletaries in society, and it is a hard task
to carry on the cause of proletaries. But,
we must arm ourselves with patience among
other qualities. Twenty years are but a
small space of time in a society’s history of
development. Some traces “Danish Society
of Women’’ has left through these years,
and besides, work of this kind will have
more effect than can be directly estimated.
Our society exists and is one among the
working powers; and to the future we look
for the further development of its high
aims and lofty aspirations.
		The American Woman’s Jonrnal.


