UTAH W. S. A. CONVENTION.

	The Woman’s Suffrage association met 
in convention at Provo, Mrs. Electa Bul-
lock presiding. Nov 23, 1893.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, recently elected
president, and Mrs. F. S. Richards, first
vice-president of the Territory, were
present, and also quite a number of local
presidents. The object of the meeting was
to nominate county officers and to transact
other county business.
	The results of the nominations were
placed before the house, and the following
are the officers for the new year:
	Electa Bullock president; Mary John
first vice-president; Marilla Daniels second
vice-president: Rebecca Doolan secretary
and correspondent secretary; Mattie Beesley
assistant secretary; Alice M. Wilkins
treasurer; L. L. Dalton chairman executive
committee.
	The chairman introduced Mrs. E. B.
Wells, recently elected Territorial Presi-
dent, who spoke of the retiring president,
Mrs. Kimball, as having been made honarary
president of Utah Territory during her life
time. She then branched out on the great
value a vote possessed in certain places,
and the injustice that no woman regardless
of her business and education, may not
even cast a vote to protect her property.
Onr sanitary condition would be better
when women could have a voice. The
work of police matrons, and the work that
might be done for those who go astray was
referred to. If women study up these
questions they might show our men that
something might be done in this regard, a
great deal better than it is done now.
	“This is suffrage work” said the speaker,
and when we get our suffrage we will but
progress along these lines. We voted as
intelligently as a whole when we had the
franchise as men do. I heard of a
legislator recently, who; when it was sug-
gested to him that there were some laws to
be amended, said with astonishment ‘I
thought we were here to make laws, I did
not know there were any before.’ The


Relief Society has given us so much
practice in organized work, that we are
much better prepared than the women of
other places."
	She referred to Colorado’s recent ad-
vancement; and how soon the women of
that state would stand by the side of
Wyoming in another presidential campaign.
The trend of all women’s work at the
World’s Fair was toward the ballot. The
taking up of some regular work, such as
civil government, and other proper sub-
jects, calling on men for assistance, and
giving them the privilege of membership
was recommended. Also that we draw in
and work harmoniously with all classes of
suffragists.
	Mrs. F. S. Richards, first Territorial vice-
president, made a few appropriate remarks,
following in the lines opened by Mrs. Wells.
She spoke of the many handsome compli-
ments she had received at the World’s
Fair in behalf of the women of Utah, and
the noble work they had done.
	Mrs. Lapish made a few very favorable
remarks.
	The president closed with a broad sum-
ming up and promises for the future.
Reporter E. J.


