CHRISTMAS-TIDE.

		“AT Christmas-tide the open hand
		Scatters its bounty o’er sea and land,
		And none are left to grieve alone,
		For love is heaven and claims its own.”

	The Christmas-tide gives each and all an
opportunity to do good in some way, to
each other, to a friend or foe and certainly
he who forgives is more blest than he who
bestows alms, for to forgive those who
have wronged us is greater. The Apostle
Paul said if we bestow all our goods to feed
the poor and have not charity it avails us
nothing, then true Charity is something
more, something higher, and what is there
more difficult than to forgive, yet we expect
to be forgiven daily for our offences. Can
we not once in a year cherish the spirit of
forgiveness to all mankind. Be at peace
with all the world. Do good to those that
have wounded us or hurt us. Be
magnanimous and try to follow the example
of Him whose birth we celebrate. Instead
of this many of us follow our own inclina-
tions, do those things that are pleasant and
agreeable, eat drink and are merry, forget-
ting the sick, the sorrowing and the hungry,
we shut ourselves up in our own narrow
circle, and might the unhappy and disconso-
late to whom a kind word and a trifle would
be so precious. So we harden our hearts
and pass on our way heedless of the great
tide of humanity around us, and yet we
justify ourselves and say we have done what
we could.
	Christmas-tide is the overflow of bless-
ings temporal and spiritual, the reaching
out to the needy in body and soul, ad-
ministering the good things of this life and
also that which will lead upward to the
higher and more exalted state, and above
all else the forgiving each other’s weakness-
es and shortcomings. Wherein we fail to
do this our Christmas-tide is not to us to our
own souls the satisfaction it might have
been. We have lost something by our lack
of humility, we shall never reach the high-
est cultivation in our own character, in our
own souls until we can forgive as we hope
to be forgiven. We who live in this
favored land of Zion are wonderfully blest
in many ways, our homes are full of plenty,
if we have not the luxuries of the wealthy,
we have the substantial blessings of food
and raiment, homes and comforts, and the
protection thrown around us that uplifts
and cheers the toiler in life’s battles.
	Everywhere almost throughout the world
we hear of the cry of the working people
for better conditions, better dwell-
ings, higher wages, consideration of needs,
and the thoughtful and sympathetic feelings
of those who bear rule and those who em-
ploy help are being exercised upon these
momentous questions of the time, labor
and capital. Here these conditions do not
exist. Working men are not compelled to
submit to tyranny of any kind, there is
such freedom and equality that there can
scarcely be a complaint of this sort, there is
more land to till, more soil to cultivate,
more deserts to subdue, and it is not neces-
sary to crowd into large towns or cities, but
the independent, ambitious young man can
go to and consider a field and buy it and
plant a vineyard, and be his own master.


For these and many other blessings in-
numerable almost, we as a people should
be grateful and at the blessed Christmas
time should not forget to render praise and
thanksgiving to our Father in Heaven for
His mercies to this people, and in our heart
of hearts not only remember this, but his
children not so favored with good things to
whom we may impart a portion of the good
things we enjoy.
	To teach the children to share with others,
one should set the example himself (or her-
self) it is so much better than precept, and
if the little ones are somewhat selfish of toys
and trifles they will remember in after years
the pattern of their parents, for these
memories do follow, and when the best be-
loved are far away, or have gone to the
“other side,” the lessons they taught, the
examples they set are more potent; one
goes back to childhood on such uncommon
days, involuntarily remembering the olden
time, when as boy and girl, or youth and
maiden, all the world was like one great
holiday and sorrows were unknown, or
were the exception; and all the beautiful
traits of character in the loved ones at home,
seem to beam forth out of the distant past,
and a solemn determination to imitate the
excellence of these heroes and heroines
whose memories one fondly cherishes is the
result of many a fireside, or lonely reverie
at Christmas time or such red letter days.
	It is good to observe these days set apart
for love and friendship, for this age is so
eminently practical that without some such
observances, social and family life would
lose much of its tenderness and sweetness.
The reunion around the festive board, and
better still the gatherings at eventide by
the hearthstone at home, awaken the most
affectionate recollections, or call forth the
simple tales one loves to hear repeated of
the former days, of the daily labor, or of ad-
venture by land or sea, or the old songs,
and the early lessons at school, the sport
the games, or the invigorating exercises of
work or pastime.
	Such pleasant evenings when large
families assemble at the paternal mansion,
are waymarks in life forever after, and the
custom of families’ assembling together
ought to be perpetuated, for it increases
love, and regard for each other, and for the
head of the family, and if simple meals
were prepared and less show and display
made, these occasions would not be so rare;
it is often the expense that hinders, and
one has to consider this—to be sure, but if
simpler preparations could be the general
rule there would be more real social and
domestic happiness, and less ruin through
debt and extravagance.


