UNION PRIMARY.
Dear Sister Wells:
	THE Primary Association held its
Annual Meeting Sep 13th, 1893. Sisters
Ellen C. Clawson and her Counselor
Camilla Cobb of the Stake Presidency, also
Bishop Phillips and a number of the local
officers of the Ward, as well as parents of
the children were present.
	The program consisted as follows,
Meeting opened by singing “How sweet
how heavenly is the sight,” &c. Prayer
by Master Heber Burgon, singing “Little
children love the Savior,” the manuscript
paper was read by the Editor Miss Phebe
Greenwood entitled “Zion’s Hope.”
	Minutes of the last Annual Meeting read
and received also the report both being
unanimously received, song by Jessie
Dewey and Emily Smith entitled the
“Unknown Grave,” recitation by Alcy
Brady, “The Babes in the Woods.” Essay
by Annie Anderson on “Obedience.” An
Organ solo by Annie Jenson, recitation by
Marion S. Brady, the Articles of Faith
were repeated by the Association, Anthem
“Jerusalem my glorious home,” was very
finely sung by Misses Zina Ball treble, Annie
Walker alto, Lula Fern tenor and Master
Everet Griffiiths bass; the four parts being
very nicely blended together.
	Sister E. C. Clawson spoke encouragingly


to the children, upon improvement,
prayer, truthfulness and made some other
excellent remarks.
	Sister Cobb was delighted with the
children and for the sweet spirit that was
present, spoke on improvement, faith, and
gave words of encouragment both to of-
ficers and children.
	Bishop Phillips said “I am well pleased
with, the children of the Primary, know
the pleasure a mother feels when her
children take a part in the program like
these children have today do not want
any change in the officers of this Association
when I see what I have this morning” and
gave some fatherly counsel to old and
young, meeting adjourned 'till two p. m.
Singing “In the chambers of the Mountains”
&c. Benediction by Master Johnnie
Sharp. 
	Two p. m. meeting convened; singing,
“Nay speak no ill a kindly word,” prayer
by Bishop T. Phillips, singing an Anthem
composed by Brother C. Denney, recitation
by the little boys entitled, “The little
Tourist,” first chapter of Psalms repeated
by Minnie Burgon, recitation by Ruth and
Naomi Denney, entitled “What two little
twins can do,” song by Rachel and Helen
Smart "The Picnic Party," the Books of the
Bible were repeated.
	Many good and choice remarks were
made by Sisters’ Brady, Burgon, . Ball,
Smart, also Brothers Jones and Anderson
testified to the pleasure they had felt in the
days exercises. The same officers were
voted in and sustained for the coming year.
Meeting adjourned for one year. Benedic-
tion by Master Franklin Denney.
	M. A. Smart, Prest.
	M. A. BALL,
	EMMA BURGON, Counselors.
	RACHEL SMART, Sec.
	ANNIE ANDERSON, Ass't Sec.
	R. SMART, Treasurer.


