SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly 
Hall, Saturday Nov. 18, 1893.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb presided.
The meeting was opened by singing "Arise

[Column 2]
O, Glorious Zion,”&c. Prayer by Sister
Diana Reid. After singing, minutes of
last meeting read and approved. Counselor
Webb gave some excellent instructions to
the sisters and desired them to bear their
testimony that the time be not wasted.
Spoke at some length on Temple work, ad-
vised the sisters to attend to that labor and
closed by saying “Let us be faithful sisters
and not lose all we have labored for, these
many years. Gounselor Elizabeth Steven-
son said we will come here to be educated
and instructed. Felt to praise the Lord
for strength to labor in the Temple, urged
the sisters to put away all light mindedness
and follies, to strive to be refined, for these
are some of the requirements of the king-
dom of God. Prayed that we all might be
faithful, and desired the sisters not to
quench the spirit but speak of the goodness
of God.
	Sister Price, spoke of the goodness of
God to her, and bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. She also desired to
be one with her sisters to the end of the
race.
	Sister Hazon bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of the Gospel, desired to be
yet able to work in the Temple and prayed
that we might all enjoy the good things
prepared for the righteous.
	Sister Illsmough bore her testimony that
Joseph was a prophet of God felt that the
Lord would strengthen her to do good,
prayed God to bless us in this great and
glorious work.
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to endorse all that
had been said to day. Spoke of the work
she was doing in the Temple, felt that all
souls were precious and equal in the sight
of God and then to think that in our weak-
ness, we are enabled to redeem some of
these precious ones. Also gave much
good counsel and encouragment to the
sisters.
	Sister Phelps was thankful for the spirit
of God that she felt with us today, said she
loved to see the faces of her sisters, who
meet here. Was glad that she was able to
meet with them sometimes. Desired to be
humble and faithful to the end.
	Sister Forsythe bore her testimony, re-
joiced that her health was improved that
she could meet with her sisters, desired
that we might all be among the blessed
faithful ones.
	Sister Morris felt to bear her testimony,
was thankful that she had heard and obeyed
the Gospel and testified to the truth of the
same. Made many excellent remarks.
	Counselor E. Stevenson spoke at some
length concerning our boys and girls, the
children of the Covenant, felt that they
would yet perform a mighty work and bear
off the kingdom. Advised the sisters to
properly instruct their children, for many
mighty ones are being raised up, who are
valiant for God and his Kingdom.
	Sisters sang “Mid scenes of confusion”
&c. A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony and desired to be faithful. Sisters
Corbett and Ford each bore testimonies true
and faithful and desired to be numbered
with those whom God would honor when
he made up his jewels. Sister Julia Druce
and Sister Workman also bore testimony
and desired to be faithful. Counselor Webb
said to the sisters "go in and work in the
Temple if you have only one name, the
way will open and more will be made
known to you, gave other instructions.”
The meeting was adjourned for two

[Column 3]
weeks. After singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished” &c. the bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister Julia
Pack
