WOMAN SUFFRAGE COLUMN.

Auckland, N. Z., Nov. 30.—The first election
in New Zealand under the female suffrage law
resulted favorably to the government. The wo-
men voted in large numbers, supporting mainly
the candidates who professed Christianity and
favored temperance.


[Column 1]
THE BALLOT FOR WOMEN.
	THE inconsistency of opinion, of which
many people have been possessed, that wo-
man is not in need of the ballot, is rapidly
becoming a thing of the past. What is
dearer to every true American than the
right to exercise his voice at the polls? And
if we stop to reason for a moment, what is
there to deter woman from this inherent
desire? It is not because she is incapable of
understanding the questions at issue, nor
because she cannot appreciate the ability
of the nominees. I know the assertion is
made that the polls are not decent places for
women, and that they are corrupting. No
place is decent from which women are long
excluded, and if they are corrupting, men
had better quit voting, some are fearful that
it will lead to a dangerous intimacy between

[Column 2]
the sexes. There could be no political
intimacy exist, that would exceed that
which already exists between the school
Superintendent and his teachers, the Mer-
chant and his clerks etc. In an Oriental
country a Physician can only prescribe for a
woman by thrusting her arm from behind a
curtain. If we prefer Turkish institutions
we had better go and live where they pre-
vail, but if our own system is the best let it
be consistent with itself and our constitu-
tion, which is a constitution of the people,
for, and by them, so that if we bring this
down to its technical meaning it is not a
government of the people, unless women
are classed outside, for there are more than
ten millions that have no voice in the mak-
ing of our laws, and they are the most
sober and religious portion of American
people. It is assumptuous in men to think
that their interest and affection for women
will lead them to just and wise legislation.
	Their desires may be, and I believe they
are perfectly in accord with the way they
would like to see them treated. But men
have not the intuitive knowledge of grasp-
ing the many reforms which woman can
see is neccessary to bring about a better
state of society; to protect the weak against
the encroachments of the more favored.
As the cooperation of the sexes is necessary
to people a world, so is mutual cooperation
on their part necessary to perpetuate its
virtue, to regulate its tone and to elevate na-
tional character. I am not superstitious
to the extent, that it will right all the
wrongs of women any more than it has
righted all the wrongs of men, but it is the
golden gate to every opportunity, and pres-
cisely the same advantage it gives to one
sex it will give to another. Look at the
interest women have exhibited during the
past few years, since the people divided on
Party lines. Must we ridicule this interest
and assure women that it is only for men
and boys, when they attain their majority,
to relegate to themselves this pleasurable
interest? I fear such comments would be
received with a degree of contempt, I
realize that the mere mention of the
political rights of women in the minds of
many, would indicate that the home would
be left desolate. But woman would not be
true to her instincts of wife and mother, if
the instincts of maternity, of domesticity,
are not persuasive enough to keep them in
the truest sense women, it is the most ser-
ious defect yet discovered in the Divine or-
der of nature; nor should women be de-
barred from this privilege, because the
majority are careless as to its advantages.
It is stated that eight hundred thousand
men did not vote last year. This is no ar-
gument that the rest should be deprived of
this right. Doubtless there were many
slaves who prefered to remain slaves, was
that an argument against freedom? Sup-
pose there is a majority of the women of
this State when it becomes one, does not
wish to vote, is that a reason for depriving
one woman who is taxed of her equal
representation? Or one innocent person of
the equal protection of his life and liberty.
We want no compulsion, like those Old


New England laws, which fined every voter
who did not vote. Men need not fear that
women will become defeminized, nature is
wise on those points. What ever their sex
incapacitates women from doing they will
not do, and their relation to society will not
be disturbed. It is useless for men to
decry the evils of the ballot for women, we
are assured of its power, and of the benefits
accruing from a national adoption of its
principles.
					S. A. Boyer.


