			BETSY G. WHITTAKER, Pres’t.

Dear Sister Wells:
	IT is my painful duty to inform you of the death
of our beloved President, Elizabeth Richards wife
of the late Silas Richards and daughter of Elijah
and Elizabeth McClenahan born June 12, 1809
in Kentucky. She departed this life after one
weeks severe suffering on Nov. 22nd, 1893 at the
residence of her daughter Mrs. Lucy A. Brady.
In 1846, she received her blessings in the Nauvoo
Temple and shared in the persecutions of the
Saints in being driven from their homes in that
city and arrived in Kanesville on the 24th, of
June in the same year remaining there ’till 1849.
	In 1847 when the pioneers returned to Winter
Quarters and a log Tabernacle was built, at
Kanesville Sister Richards fed and lodged thirty
of them for several days and it was at this time and
place where Brother Brigham Young was voted
in as President of the Church.
	Heber C. Kimball prophecied then that Sister
Richards and her family should never want bread
a prediction which has been literally fulfilled up
to this time.
	Sister Richards was a woman of nerve and
ndependence, she drove a team the entire dis-
tance across the plains from Nauvoo to Salt Lake
City she left Kanesville with her husband who
was Captain of one of the companies and her
family on July 10th, 1849 and arrived in Salt Lake
City on Oct,23rd of the same year, she was one
of the oldest settlers of Union, also President of
the Union district South Cottonwood ward for
eight years in the Relief Society, and in the
organization of the Union ward in 1877, she was
appointed to preside over the Union Ward
Relief Society on Aug. 8th, of that year and held
that position when she died, her health has been
feeble for the last two or three years, but she al-
ways had a good word of counsel to give to all.
All that loving hands could do was done for her,
which she very much appreciated.
	She was the mother of six children, twenty-two
grand children and forty-nine great grand
children. The funeral was largely attended, the
speakers were Bishop Joseph S. Rawlins, John
Sharp, Charles Denney and Bishop Ishmael
Phillips, all testified to her upright character and
her devotion to the work of God.
	Through the fiery ordeals of Illinois she passed
with no shelter, oft exposed to the cold wintry
blast yet never did she utter a word of regret at
joining so despised and persecuted a people.

To the celestial law through Joseph revealed,
	This our dear sister, obedience did yield;
To trials exempt thro’ which many have fell,
	She kept the covenant, and with her all is well.
A President, Counselor and a mother in need,
	To the sisters of Union, for years she has been;
Long, long remembered by many she’ll be;
	As they are tossed to and fro’ on life’s trouble-
		some sea.
						M. A. SMART, Sec’y.


MISS GRACE J. HAYNES, formerly a
teacher in Lawrence, Mass., has been elect-
ed principal of Olivet College, Olivet,
Mich.
	CHICAGO has thirty police matrons, with
a head matron over all. They have cared
for 35,119 women and girls during the
past year.
	NEARLY 11,000 women have registered
in Boston for school suffrage, a substantial
increase over last year.
	A VERY successful conference of women
workers was held at Leeds, on the 7th and
8th of November. Papers were read by
Lady Frederick Cavendish on the “The


Housing of the Poor;” by Mrs. Alfred
Ashe on "Health Teaching in Towns;" and
by Miss Hetty Jones on ‘‘The Condition of
Life in Houses of Business.” Many other
useful and practical subjects were discussed.
	A MAN cannot be truly eloquent if he
knows not how to listen.


A Card
	to the Ladies!
DEAR LADY: If you are troubled with painful
and irregular periods take Dr. de Joza's World-
renowned Prescription. We give written guaran- 
tee to permanently cure in two treatments or re-
fund money. Price for one trial treatment $2.00.
Write or call on Lady Manager.
SALT LAKE MEDICINE CO.,
5G West Second South St.,
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Patients unsuccessfully treated or imposed up-
on by others especially invited to call.

