VANITY.

	WE are told by an ancient Apostle that
we are subject to vanity as the sparks that
fly upward; this being the case would it
not be well to cultivate a sound mind a
sincere and devoted heart, that we may not
lose the prize of our high calling through
vanity, for this being called the spice of
life, is there not danger that we may not
lose the prize of our high calling through
vanity, for this being called the spice of
life, is there not danger that we flavor our
lives or character too much with these spices
so that the simple food so necessary to sus-
tain life becomes to a degree hurtful, losing
the nutritious quality which the plain food
would give us.
	To a hard student who is making it his
object and aim to arrive at some intelligence
which he greatly desires, he sometimes
needs a little recreation or amusement to
give his mind a rest, then he takes hold
again with more vigor and a joyful anticipa-
tion of gaining the victory eventually when
he has exercised and developed the abilities
God has given him. 
	But, how is it with those who have no
object of this kind, and only seem to live


here for the purpose of enjoying all that is
within their reach, as it is written. “Live
while you live” the Epicure will say “and
seize the pleasure of the present day.”
While another person cries, “Live while 
you live”, the sacred preacher cries, “and
give to God each moment as its flies.”
	We find many in these days are like the
Antideluvians were in the days of Noah.
Would they listen to his warning voice,
Oh, no! They feel to say, how does Noah
know all this? Why does not the Lord
speak to us if this be true?
	But did they seek to become acquainted
with their Heavenly Father while their
minds are so full of vanity is there any
room there for His good spirit? Could He
speak to one whose spirit is exactly op-
posite to His own; would it make an im-
pression if the Lord should speak to them?
I think not. But when this calamity
came upon them then they realized the
truth of Noah’s words: a subject they had
no time or disposition to listen to then, but
now can both see and feel the importance
of the same.
	But this is not all. Now I would ask
how did they feel when the Messiah came
into the prison as we read in first Epistle of
Peter 3rd,chapter 19 and 20 verses. They re-
joiced no doubt, because they had heard of
a Messiah who was to come to redeem a
fallen world and now he is here in prison
with them: no doubt he came to do us
good as Moses and all the prophets have
testified He would do: they could then
listen to them. Just fancy the joy they
felt in seeing the Lord of Heaven and
earth come to visit them. Do not you
think they had faith that this visit would
result in some good to them being a part of
the human family also. O yes, and the
Lord also had compassion. He who when
on the cross said, “Father forgive them for
they know not what they do” would surely
feel for those who were drowned by the
flood.  He told his disciples what they
must do to be saved, for faith without
works was dead.
	You know that He told Nicodemus he
must be born again to enter into his king-
dom, yes be born of water and the spirit or
he could not see the kingdom of God. Now
could the Antideluvians do this? Their
spirits were separated from the body, yes
their bodies were here with mother earth.
	Well what do we read in Acts 1st, chapter
3rd, verse, we read that Jesus was on the
earth forty days making arrangements for
the salvation of the human family. He
told his disciples to wait at Jerusalem until
they received the Holy Ghost and then
ascended into heaven in their sight. We
read in Book of Mormon He visited the
Nephites on this continent after His
resurrection, and taught them how to serve
God acceptably by the sermon on the mount,
and established the same organization that
he did at Jerusalem, &c.
	Now we see that baptism for the dead
was an established rule after his resurrection,
This being an important lesson can not we
lay aside vanity while we study such lessons
as these. We find much to say if we study
such lessons as this. We find much to say
if we study it properly. Your friend,
