THE WAR OF THE REBELLION.

	As Buchanan’s term of office drew to-
wards its close, no less than four candidates
were nominated to succeed him. Of these
Abraham Lincoln, the candidate of the
Republicans, was successful although the
southern leaders had threatened that if he
should be elected, the states of the south
would secede, that is, would withdraw
from the union as they claimed the right to
do. When it became known that Lincoln,
the candidate of the party opposed to the
further extension of slavery, would be the
next President, the secession movement
began. Public meetings were held in
South Carolina; and, on the 20th, of Dec.
1860, an ordinance was passed by a state
convention, held in Charleston, which
formally declared that the Union now sub-
sisting between South Carolina and other
states is hereby dissolved. Six days after-
wards Major Anderson, of the national
army, commanding at Fort Moultrie, with-
drew the garrison of eighty men from that
fort, and removed to Fort Sumter. This
being regarded by the South Carolinians as
a hostile act, they at once seized the custom-
house at Charleston, as well as other
property belonging to the general govern-
ment, and commenced operations to drive
Anderson from his new position. Six other
states, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama,

[Column 2]
Georgia, Louisiana and Texas, following
the lead of South Carolina, passed secession
ordinances in the early part of 1861. In
February a congress of delegates from all
the states, except Texas, met at Mont-
gomery, and formed a government called
“The Confederate States of America.”
Jefferson Davis, of Mississippi was elected
by the Congress President of the Con-
federacy, and Texas being then represented,
was duly inaugurated.
	A steamer, sent from New York with
supplies and reinforcements for Fort Sum-
ter, arrived off Charleston, but being fired
upon by the batteries which had been
erected by the Confederates, was compelled
to put back. Thus you see South
Carolina commenced the war by firing at
the American flag, the frantic tumult
spread along every river and over every
mountain in the slave states from
Chesapeake bay to the Mexican frontier.
Forts, arsenals, navy-yards and other
property of the nation, were seized by state
authority of the Confederacy. General
Dix, Secretary of the National Treasury,
ordered two revenue cutters, stationed at
New Orleans, to be taken to New York,
but the captain of one of the cutters re-
fussing to obey, he sent a telegram to the
lieutenant, ordering the arrest of the captain
and closing with the command. “If any one
attempt to haul down the American flag,
shoot him on the spot.”
	The affairs of the country, when Lincoln
entered upon the office of President, March
4th, 1861, were in a sadly distracted con-
dition, “Menaces that the President-elect
would never be permitted to take the oath
of office had been freely and loudly made,”
consequently General Scott took every
precaution, and the inauguration took place
amid a greater display of military than had
ever before been witnessed on such occasions.
In his address, which was mild, the Presi-
dent declared with special emphasis, that he
had no purpose or inclination to interfere
with slavery where it already existed,
further declaring that he had “no lawful
right to do so.”
	This assurance, however, had no effect
whatever upon the Southern leaders, they
believing their duty to their states as more
binding upon them than their obligations to
the general government, so they continued
to prepare for war.
	A force of several thousand men was put
under the command of General Beauregard,
who was ordered to reduce Fort Sumter
and accordingly, the “roar of a snorter
quickly followed by the rushing shriek of a
shell, gave notice to the world that the era
of compromise and diplomacy was ended.”
(April 12th, 1861.) Soon all the guns of the
assailants were in operation, and in the
course of thirty four hours, more than
three thousand shot and shell struck the
works. The defense was feeble owing to
the smallness of the garrison and the scanty
supply of ammunition. In his report to
the secretary of war, Anderson said having
defended Fort Sumter until the quarters
were entirely burned, the main gates
destroyed by fire, the george-wall seriously
injured, the magazine surrounded by flame
and its door closed from the effects of the
heat, four barrels and three cartridges of
powder only being available and no pro-
visions but pork remaining, I accepted the
terms of evacuation offered by Beauregard,
and marched out of the fort on Sunday
afternoon, the 14th. inst.


On the following day Anderson sailed
with his command for New York.
	“The welcome event,” said a Southern
writer, “was instantly announced in every
part of Charleston by the ringing of bells,
the pealing of cannon, the shouts of couriers
dashing through the streets.” It was re-
garded as the greatest day in the history of
South Carolina. While exultation prevail-
ed at the South, the news that the national
flag had been fired upon and that Fort Sum-
ter had fallen, produced an intense feeling
of indignation at the North. Thousands of
men who had previously been in sympathy
with the South, now declared themselves
in favor of the Union. President Lincoln’s
call for seventy-five thousand troops met
with a hearty and favorable response from
all the free states.
	Political differences were forgotten in the
impulse to defend the national government.
	Two days after Lincoln’s call for troops,
Davis issued a proclamation inviting
privateers to prey upon the commerce of
the United States; this was followed by one
from Lincoln, declaring the ports of the
Confederate States to be in a state of
blockade.
	After the secession of Virginia, Rich-
mond became the capital of the Confederacy.
The Southern army, numbering a hundred
thousand men, occupied a line through the
state from Harper’s Ferry to Norfolk.
	Of this army, a large force, under
Beauregard, was at Manassas Junction, in 
front of which was the little stream of Bull
Run, in a narrow wooded valley. Orders
were given to General McDonald who com-
manded a large part of the Union army to
attack Beauregard. A desperate conflict
served in which more than forty thousand
men were engaged. The advantage at first
was upon the side of the Union Army, but
the confederates being largly reinforced at
last prevailed and the national troops,
exhausted and panic-stricken, fled in dis-
order towards Washington.
	This great disaster taught the people of
the North that the task they had under-
taken was greater than they opposed, but
they did not waver. It stimulated them to
greater exertions. Congress voted to raise
more money and meu.
	"Having chosen our course" said Lincoln
“without guile and with good purpose let us
now renew our trust in God, go forward
without fear and with manly hearts.”
	In the meantime, civil war raged in
Missouri, but the efforts of the successionist
to take the state out of the Union were
frustrated mainly through the prompt
action of General Lyon.
	Events showed that to complete the 
blockade, nearly six hundred rebels, most
of them steamers, would be required.
A number of privateers were fitted out by
the Confederates to roam the seas and prey
upon the Merchant ships of the North.
One of the most successful of these was the
Alabama, famous for its capture and de-
struction of American ships.
		SECOND YEAR OF THE WAR.
	The whole Union force in the field at the
beginning of 1862 reached the number of
five hundred thousand. The Confederate
was somewhat less.
	In Kentucky the Confederates were de-
feated at Mill Spring. A few days later
General Grant, with the aid of the gun-
boats captured Fort Donelson, Grant's
army; after the victory of Fort Donelson,
proceeded up to Tennessee river. The

[Column 2]
next day reinforcement, having arrived for
Grant, the Confederates commanded by
Beauregard, were in turn driven from their
position and compelled to retreat April 7th,
1862.
	The Union cause was also successful in
Louisiana a naval expedition commanded
by Captain Farragut. About thirty miles
above the mouth of the Mississippi river
were two forts, which were the main
defence of the city. For six days the fleet
poured an incessant fire upon the fort which
was answered to with vigor.
	At last Farragut resolved to run by them.
A dozen thunder storms never roared more
terrifically than did the peal of hostile can-
non, still the fleet kept on and passed the
fort, just then it was attacked  by more
than a dozen Confederate steamers. The
noise was awful. The guns in the fleets
and forts belching forth at once together
with the explosion of boilers and maga-
zines and the shrieks of scalded and
wounded men made an appaling noise, but
the victory was Farragut’s. The next
naval battle was between the Virginia and 
the Monitor. 
			To be Continued.


