SLAVERY.

	EVER since the edict, “Cursed be
Canaan a servant of servants shall he be to
his brethren” went forth from the lips of
the Patriarch to his erring son, slavery has
existed in some form and the earth has
groaned under the curse of it. The
Israelites made bond men and bond women
of the sons and daughters of Canaan, and
it almost seemed like retribution, that they
suffered nearly four hundred years the
horrors of such servitude, their taskmasters -
being the descendants of Ham the father of
Canaan.
	Slavery in our own loved country began
almost simultaneously with its discovery.
The brightness of the glory attached to the 
name of the great Columbus is dimmed by
the fact, that he sent five hundred of the
innocent and trusting natives of the Islands
to Spain and sold them as slaves. His
brother Bartholomew sent three hundred.
All of the early Spanish explorers were
guilty of the same awful crime. Likewise
were the French and English. Even on
the shores of New England Thomas Hunt
an officer under Captain John Smith kid-
napped several Indians and sold them into
perpetual slavery. In nearly all of the
Colonies the Indians were held as slaves for
many years after their first settlement.
	Negro slavery commenced in the Colonies
in 1619 when a Dutch Man of War sailed up
the James River in the month of August


[Column 1]
and landed  twenty negroes  on the soil  of
Virginia.   They were  given  in exchange
for food to relieve the  famishing crew.   I
will be interesting to  know  that  the first
cotton seed was planted two years later and
that tobacco was also grown at that time. 
	The institution once planted  was for a 
time of  rather slow  growth.   Only  a few 
cargoes of  negroes were imported for sever-
al years.   In 1624 there were only twenty-
eight slaves in the  colony of  Virginia,  and
in 1648 in a population of 15,000 only 300.
In 1671 they had increased to two thousand 
and in 1758 had reached to  the great num-
ber of  100,000, a little less than that of  the
whites.
	At first only the Dutch ships engaged in
the unholy traffic,  but  soon encouraged by
the English,  companies  were formed and 
ships   built  in   New   England carried 
on  the trade,  the king  himself  sharing in
the profits.
	The colony of  New York  was settled by
the  Dutch  in  1609, and  was called New
Netherlands.   It  is  not  known  precisely
when slavery was introduced  but probably
existed  from  nearly  the beginning  of its
settlement.   Under  their rule  there was 
only a mild form of domestic slavery.  The
blacks were fed and clothed equally as well
as the white  servants,  for the  benevolent
Hollander loved to see all around him hap-
py and comfortable.   It  is  recorded  that
"so light was his servitude that the negroes
sang and danced at Christmas and  Puikster
as  merrily as  though they  were  free."
During  the reign of Queen Elizabeth about
the year 1562 the English government gave
its royal  sanction to the slave trade.   The
Queen  at  first  objected,  but  Sir John 
Hawkins, a slave merchant, persuaded her
by his crafty eloquence, that it was better to
take  the negro from a  bad  country  to a 
good one, and from idolatry to Christianity.
	When the English took possesion  of the
New  Netherlands  in  1664, the  name was
changed to New York, the condition of the
slaves was altered and they  were subjected
to greater  hardships, because  of  the laws 
that were made expressly for them. 
	In the year 1637  the slave ship  Desire
landed a cargo of  negroes in  the colony of
Massachusetts, from that  time slavery con-
tinued and increased  'till 1780.   It  would
be  interesting  to follow  the rise   of this
institution  in  all of  the colonies but  time
will not  permit,  suffice  it  to  say  that  it
existed in them all nearly  from the time of
their first settlements  excepting Georgia 
which was  the  thirteenth and last colony,
and was founded by the British Government.
For  prudential reasons slavery was not per-
mitted until  seventeen  years had  elapsed,
when the long  struggle  against  it  ceased
and slavery was legalized in 1749.
	Among  the  first to  raise his  voice and 
wield the pen  in  favor  of  the  slave  and
against slavery was Samuel Sewall  at one
time Chief Justice of  the Superior Court of
Massachusetts.   He wrote  the first  article
against slavery in  the colony; it was a tract
published  in  1700.     The  Quakers also 
were in favor of abolishing  slavery at that
time, but dared not make their views public 
as they  were under a ban. 
	It is  computed that  300,000 slaves were
imported up to the  time of the Declaration
of  Independence, the whole slave popula-
tion was 501,102.   During the Revolution-
ary War the  negroes  both  bond  and  free
enlisted and helped  to fight the battles that 
resulted in American Independence.
	Rhode  Island, at  the  close of the  war

[Column 2]
presented  the  negro  soldiers  with  their
freedom  and  a  bounty  of fifty  dollars.
Virginia emancipated  her slaves who had
served in the war.   Several other states did
the same. 
	To Massachesetts belongs  the honor of
being the first state to abolish slavery. In 
1780 she formed a  state constitution under
which slavery soon died out. 
	The  last  Continental  Congress on July 
13th,  1787,  passed an act prohibiting slavery
north  east of  the Ohio River.
	The convention that  met in Philadelphia
May 25th, 1787, to  frame the  Constitution
of the United States, after a prolonged de-
bate, inserted the clauses protecting slavery
in the states.   It also  permitted the impor-
tation of slaves  till the year 1808.   Among
the delegates who  strongly  opposed  the
recognition  of slavery  in the  Constitution
were Mr. Madison of  Virginia,  Governor
Morris  of Pennsylvania,  Rufus    King of 
Massachusetts, Luther Martin of  Maryland.
George Washington and Thomas  Jefferson
both  owned  slaves,    but    true    to  their
principles were not  in  favor of  perpetuat-
ing  the  institution.  Washington  at  his
death emancipated  his slaves.   Jefferson's
facile pen  eloquently  pleaded for the free-
dom of  the black.   He wrote,  "The  hour
of emancipation is advancing  in the march
of time.    It will come.   It  is a practice in 
parts  of  Virginia   to   rear slaves  for the 
market.   How can  an honorable  mind,  a
patrot and  a lover  of his country  bear to 
see this ancient  Dominion,  rendered illus-
trious by the noble devotion of her sons in 
the  cause  of liberty,   converted  into  one
grand menagerie,   where  men  are  to  be
raised  for  the  market  like  oxen  for the
shambles.   Is this  better, is  it  not  worse
than the Slave Trade,  that trade which en-
listed the good and the  wise of every creed
and  every clime  to  abolish it?   Indeed, I 
tremble for my country  when I reflect that
God is just, that his justice cannot sleep for-
ever.     The  Almighty    has   no   attribute
which can take sides with us in such a con-
test.   YOU MUST ADOPT SOME PLAN OF
EMANCIPATION OR WORSE WILL FOLLOW."
Patrick Henry,  James Madison  and others
used their  tongues  and pens against  the
inhuman  practice,   but    public  opinion
favored it, and  the voice  of mercy did not
prevail at that time.
    	From   1785-   'til      1790   anti-slavery
agitation  increased,  until  most  of  the
Northern States passed laws  providing for
gradual emancipation.   The  last public 
act  of  the  venerable  Benjamin  Franklin
was to sign a memorial to Congress, urging
its attention to the doing away with slavery
in the states, this was Nov. 19th, 1790.
	In 1799 New  York  State  passed a  law
providing for  the  gradual extinction  of
slavery.   In that year an effort  was made
in Kentucky to accomplish  the same  end.
Henry Clay who was then in the beginning
of  his brilliant career  advocated the move-
ment, but it was a failure.   In the  North
slave labor was unprofitable but in the sunny
South where tobacco, rice  and cotton were
cultivated, the  African  was  at home, and
the labor suited to his nature.   Cotton was
only cultivated in small  quantities because
of  the difficulty  of  separating  the  seed
from the fibre.   In  1792  Eli  Whitney  of
Massachussetts went  to  Georgia  and
invented the cotton gin which made it easy
to take thecotton from the  seed, from that
time cotton growing received a wonderful
impetus.   No  cotton  had  been  exported

[Column 3]
from the United  States in 1792.   In 1793
one million five hundred  thousand pounds
were exported to Europe. 
	In the commencement  of the  session of
1806--7 President Jefferson  in his message
to Congress recommended the abolishing of
the  African slave trade, consequently such
a law was passed prohibiting the importation
of  slaves into the United States or the Ter-
ritory thereof, after Dec. 31st, 1807.
 	In 1820 Maine applied for  admission  to
the  Union.   The number  of states were
equally divided,  eleven  free  and eleven
slave states.   The South  were opposed  to
its admission not being willing that the free
states should have  control  in  the Senate. 
	After a long and  angry discussion it was
admitted.    In   the  same   year Missouri 
wanted  to  come in as  a slave Territory. 
This  was objected   to  by  the Northern
states, finally a measure  was adopted and
became a law called the Missouri  Compro-
mise which provided  that  no slaves be  al-
lowed  excepting   in   Missouri,   north  of
Lat.  36 30. 
	The Quakers still agitated  the subject of
slavery.   They had emancipated all of their
slaves  in   Maryland,    Pennsylvania  and
New Jersey.   At a single monthly meeting
in Pennsylvania eleven hundred slaves were
given their liberty.   Benjamin   Lundy, a 
Quaker who advocated  gradual  emancipa-
tion, established  in  1821  an  anti-slavery
paper;  and  published  it  successively in 
Philadelphia,  Baltimore  and Washington. 
In  Vermont another was  being  published,
edited  by William  Loyd   Garrison   who
afterward became the leader of the Abolition
Party,  and advocated  the  most  extreme
measures to carry out  his purposes.   Wen-
dell Phillips  was  an ardent follower  and
they   both urged  secession  before the 
South.   In 1842 their political war cry was
"No union  with slave holders,"  but  the
two  great  political  parties  who  held the
preponderance of votes  at  that  time,  the
Whigs and Democrats were not so extreme
in their views.
	In 1844 Texas applied for admission into 
the Union as a slave  state.   This was  op-
posed by the  Whigs and  favored  by  the
Democrats and was the great political issue
during the presidential election in that year
James K. Polk and  Henry  Clay being  the
candidates.     At  that    time   the  Prophet
Joseph Smith also  was  nominated  as  a
candidate by his people and  his "views of
the Powers and  the  Policy  of  the United
States Government"  contained  the follow-
ing,  "Were  I  President   of the United 
States, when the people petitioned to abolish
slavery, I would use all honorable means to
have their prayers granted and give liberty
to the  captive,  by  giving  the  southern
gentleman a reasonable  amount  for his
property,  that the whole  nation  might be
free indeed."    Had this humane  and  just
policy been carried  out  by  the  parties in
power, the lives that were  sacrificed in the 
war  of  the  rebellion  would  have  been
saved and not a tithe  of the  money spent.
The   Democrats  elected  their  candidate
James K  Polk, and  in  March  1845 Texas 
was admitted into the Union.   This  led  to
the war with Mexico which resulted in the
acquisition of a vast tract of  Mexican  Ter-
ritory  which was all free  soil;  Mexico hav-
ing freed her slaves twenty years before.
	David Welmot  of  Pennsylvania brought
a  bill before  Congress in  1846  prohibiting
slavery in all the  Territory  that  might be
secured through  the  treaty with  Mexico.
This measure  was  called  the  Welmot


Proviso. It did not become a law, but its
friends formed themselves into a new party
with Ex President Martin VanBuren as their
Presidential candidate in 1848. This was
the beginning of the Free Soil Party and
was composed of seceders from both Whigs
and Democrats and was the foundation of 
the future Republican party. The Demo-
crats nominated Lewis Cass the Whigs
General Zachary Taylor who was elected
by a large majority.
	On the 20th of Dec, 1849, California
asked to be admitted as a free state. This
caused a violent dispute in Congress and
the United States. The slave states oppos-
ing the measure. John C. Calhoun being
one of its most bitter opposers.   Henry 
Clay then in Congress, offered a bill in-
cluding six acts; first was the admission of 
California as a free state; second the for-
mation of new states out of the Territory
of Texas, to permit or exclude slavery as
the people should decide; third the
organization of the Territories of New 
Mexico and Utah without any conditions
in respect to slavery; fourth, the establish-
ment of the present boundary between 
Texas and New Mexico and the payment
to the former for the surrender of the latter,
the sum of ten millions of dollars; fifth, 
the enactment of a more vigorous law for
the recovery of fugitive slaves; sixth, the 
abolition of the slave trade in the District
of Columbia. This Omnibus Bill, as it 
was named, became a law and was called
the compromise of 1850.  This for a time
stilled the troubled waters of Politics. 
	A great influence was exerted in the
North by the anti-slavery literature that
was published at this time Mrs. Harriet
Beecher Stowe's "Uncle Tom's Cabin,"
having by far the widest circulation and the
greatest influence.  It took the heart of
its readers by storm, arousing them to 
indignation, then melting them to sad-
ness by its vivid portrayal of slave life. 
It was translated into twenty different
languages. In 1854 Senator S. A. Douglass
of Illinois introduced the Kansas and 
Nebraska bill into the Senate, which pro-
vided that the constitution of these states
should allow the people to decide for them-
selves, whether the new states should be
free or slaveholding.     The bill became a
law, virtually repealing the compromise of
1820 which was made to settle the slavery
question for all time north of Lat. 36 30.
	This opened the way for a renewal of all 
the bitterness of sectional strife, both
parties rushing into the new states, as fast
as possible to secure a majority of voters,
a civil war ensued and Kansas was the bat-
tle ground.   The agitation spread to all
parts of the United States and in 1856 be-
came the issue upon which the people
divided.  Many Northern Democrats al-
though opposed to slavery, firmly believed
that the people of every Territory ought to 
have the right to decide for themselves,
whether they would have slave Territory or
not. On these issues James Buchanan was
elected, the Northern and Southern
Democrats being in a large majority. 
	Immediately after the inauguration came
the Dred Scott decision. Dred Scott, a
slave had removed with his master to
Illinois and afterwards in 1836 to Minnesota
where he married a negro woman who had
been bought by his master. They had
two children; then the whole family was
brought back to St. Louis and sold. Dred
sued for his freedom. In May 1856 the

[column 2]
case was appealed to the Supreme Court of
the United States, where after three years
delay, a decision was rendered against him;
Chief Justice Taney in speaking before the
court declared that “for more than a cen-
tury before the adoption of the Constitution
a negro whether bond or free had no rights
that a white man was bound to respect.”
This decision and declaration added fuel to
the flames of opposition to slavery in the
North.
	 In October 1859 John Brown an
abolitionist of the most extreme character,
who had removed from Connecticut and
settled in Kansas, made an attempt to incite
an insurrection among the slaves. With a 
party of twenty one men he made an attack
upon the United States Arsenal at Harper's
two days.  The National troops and the 
Militia of Virginia were called out to sup-
press the revolt.  Thirteen of Brown's men
were killed, two escaped and six with John 
Brown were captured, given over to the
authorities of Virginia where they were 
tried, condemned and hung.  All of these
events tended to make matters worse be-
tween the North and South.  The con-
troversy continued in Kansas but the free
soil party increased so fast that it was soon
certain that it would become a free state. 
	The time of holding the 19th,
Presidential election was at hand and in-
tense feeling was aroused in all parts of the 
Union. There were four candidates. The
Republican party nominated Abraham
Lincoln, and in their platform of principles
pledged themselves to “exterminate the
twin relics of barbarism, slavery and
polygamy.”
	The Democratic convention met at 
Charleston, South Carolina.  The delegates
were divided on the question of slavery and
after much debate the Southern delegates
finding that the Northern Democrats were
going to nominate Stephen A. Douglas the
advocate of popular sovereignty they with-
drew and later met and nominated John C.
Breckenridge for President. Mr. Lincoln
was elected. The South claimed that his
election justified them in seceding from the
Union, therefore on the 17th of Dec, 1860,
a convention assembled at Charleston and
after only three days debate a resolution
was passed to that effect. This act pre-
cipitated the war of the Rebellion and led
to the emancipation of nearly four millions
of slaves. 
	*See Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation
proclamation issued on the 22nd of Sept.
1863.   Ridpaths History of U. S. Appendix
G.
	Thus by blood and groans and tears of
anguish, was the Union preserved and the 
dark stain of negro slavery erased from
the face of our fair Republic. 
                                         ANN E. NEAL. 
March 6th, 1893.


