WOMAN’S EXPONENT,


[Column 1]
THE WAR OF THE REBELLION 
		 (Concluded.)
	IN the meantime a vast army had been
collected near Washington under General

[Column 2]
McClellan, the object of which was to cap-
ture the Confederate capital. Early in March
an advance was ordered.
	At Fair Oaks McClellan’sarmy was attack-
ed May 31st, a fearful but indecisive battle
ensued. General Joseph E. Johnston, the
Confederate General-in-chief, having been
severely wounded, was relieved from duty
and'General Lee appointed to the command.
General Jackson popularly known as“Stone-
wall Jackson,” having defeated or eluded
the Union Armies in the Shenandoah val-
ley, joined Lee.
		MOTTO OF JACKSON.
	“We are now,” he wrote, ‘‘in a state of
war which will yield to nothing. The
whole south is in a state of revolution into
which Virginia after a long struggle has
been drawn; and though I recognize no
necessity for this state of things, and would
have forborne and pleaded to the end for
redress of grievances, real or supposed, yet
in my own person I had to test the question
whether I should take part against
my native state. With all my devotion to
the Union and the feeling of loyalty and
duty of an American citizen—I have not
been able to make up my mind, to raise my
hand against my relatives, my children, my
home. I have therefore resigned my com-
mission in the army, and, save in defeuce
of my native state with the sincere hope,
that my poor services may never be called
upon to draw my sword.’’
	At this time there were three armies in
the vicinity of Washington, one under the
command of Freemont, another of Banks—
and the third of McDowell. These were
united, forming one body, called the army
of Virginia. Pope, at his own request
having been relieved McClellan was again
intrusted with the command of the Federal
forces in and around Washington, the Con-
federate General had supposed that large
re-enforcements would flock to him in
Maryland, but in this he was dissappointed,
McClellan following Lee the invaders were
overtaken at South mountain, and though
they were defeated in the battle that ensued,
Sep. 14th, Harper’s Ferry with its garrison
of more than eleven thousand men, and its
vast munitions of war, was surren-
dered to a division of their army on the
following morning.
	Long before the next day broke, the na-
tional troops rising from their rest on the
bare ground, made ready their coffee, and
eating their simple breakfast, prepared
for a renewal of battle. They believed
that Lee had no escape. The river was at
his back. All day passed and a second
wearisome night and then there was news.
Lee had given McClellan the slip he had
actually crossed the Potomac unmolested,
and escaped into Virginia.” Lee’s army,
though foiled and compelled to retreat, won
commendation from foes as well as friends.
	“It had fought its way to the Potomac,
crossed the stream, met the Union troops
in two heavy engagements, fought the bat-
tle of Antietam—the greatest pitched bat-
tle of the war—and then recrossed the
Potomac, back into Virginia.
	During all this time, covering the full
space of a month, these troops rested but
four days. And let it be always remembered
to their honor, that of the men who per-
formed this wonderful achievement, one
fifth were barefoot one half in rags and
the whole half famished. ”
	McClellan remained in Maryland till

[Column 3]
about the first of November, when he
crossed the Potomac, but President Lincoln
was dissatisfied with his inactivity, ap-
pointed General Burnside in his stead.
Burnside, believing that the true line of
operations against Richmond was the direct
one,” advanced to the Rappohannock, op-
posite  Fredericksburg. Lee anticipating
Burnside’s movements, had meanwhile
marched along the south side of the river
to Fredericksburg while the Union troops
were waiting for pontoons to cross the river.
Lee improved the time by planting
batteries on the hill in the rear of the city.
The pontoons finally arrived and the river
crossed, but the heroic attempt to carry the
batteries were repulsed with terrible loss.
Thirteen thousand men of Burnside’s army
fell, and he was compelled to recross the
river. Money was easy enough to satisfy
everybody. The financial system adopted
by the Confederate Government consisted
in the issue of treasury notes enough to
meet the expenses of the Government.
Coffee was bought at forty dollars and tea
at thirty dollars a pound. A Southern
writer says ‘‘before the war I went to
market with the money in my pocket and
brought back my purchases in a basket, but
now I take the money in a basket, and
bring the things home in my pocket. ” A
cavalry officer, entering a little country store
found a pair of boots which fitted him,
he asked the price, ‘‘Two hundred dol-
lars” said the merchant, A five hundred 
dollar bill, was offered, but the merchant 
having no smaller bills could not change it.
	‘‘Never mind said the cavalier, I’ll take
the boots anyhow keep the change. I
never let a little matter of three hundred
dollars stand in the way of a trade.” 
	In the third year of the war, President 
Lincoln said, ‘‘My object is to save the
Union and not either to save or destroy
slavery.”
	‘‘If I could save the Union without freeing,
any slaves, I would do so. If I could save it
by freeing all the slaves I would do so, or by
freeing some and leaving others I would do
that.” Events controlled him. Then
“black regiments,” began to organize to
fight in the national service. At the close
of the year fifty thousand colored men were
in actual service.
	In the third year of the war President
Lincoln by an act of Congress recruited
the army by drafting. This caused great
excitement in New York a riot broke out
which lasted four days and was only put
down by the most determined effort of the
police and the military. (The battle of
Chickarauga.)
	The Union forces driven behind the in-
trencliments of Chattanooga. With the
Confederates holding the surrounding
hills, Lookout Mountain and Missionary
ridge—their position was critical indeed. 
	They were also in danger of starvation,
the “mud was so deep” wrote one of the
soldiers that we could not travel by the
road, but we got along pretty well by step-
ping from mule to mule as they lay dead from
starvation by the way. Still General
Thomas telegraphed “I will hold fast till 
all starve.” It was evident that something
must be done at once and quickly. Rein-
forcements under Hooker were therefore
rushed by rail to the aid of the troops.
Grant was ordered to take the command.
	General Sherman, who had distinguished
himself under Grant at the West was also
called to command, Thus Sherman com.


menced his march to the sea Nov. 15th,
after many cold nights Fort Mcallister was
reached and carried by assault, and on the
morning of the (21st, of Dec.) Sherman
entered Savannah. In announcing his
triumph to President Lincoln, he said  "I
beg to present you a Christmas gift, the
city of Savannah, with one hundred and
fifty guns, plenty of ammunition,  and
twentyfive thousand bales of cotton"
	Sherman halted at Savannah only long
enough to rest his troops.  Commanded a
march in the depth of winter to join Grant,
who was confronting Lee near Richmond.
	Lee saw he must either evacuate Richmond
and Petersburg,or be captured.  He then
began to form a plan by which he might
retreat into North Carolina, and there join
Johnston. Grant anticipating this issued
orders for a general movement against Rich-
mond. On the morning of March 29th,
it began, Sheridan's advance led to the bat-
tle of five forks, next morning at daybreak,
a general assault upon the Confederate lines
was made and before noon the entire
exterior defenses were captured. “In
Richmond, for it was Sunday the people had
assembled in the churches, knowing little of
what was going on twenty miles distant at
the fort. Davis had repaired to his custom-
ary place of worship.  There came up the
aisle a messenger, who handed him a dis-
patch from Lee, which contained intel-
ligence of the most momentous event of the
war. The news passed quickly from lip to
lip from church to church.
	Men women and children rushed from
the churches. Wagons on the streets were
soon loaded and driven to Danville depot.
The banks were all open and depositers
were as busy as bees removing their
deposits.  Hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars of paper money were destroyed.  From
that moment, law and order ceased to exist.
The warehouses were fired. The rams on
the James river were also fired. The
bridges leading out of the city were also
fired and were soon wrapped in flames.
	Morning broke upon a scene such as those
who witnessed it can never forget. “The
sun was an hour or more above the horizon,
when suddenly there ran up the whole
length of Main street the cry of ‘Yankees!
Yankees’!
	The Union soldiers were indeed entering
the city, and Potsburg was also in possess-
ing of the National forces, and over both
cities the stars and stripes again floated.
	Lee retreated to the south west, hoping to be
able to join Johnston in North Carolina, but
his troops were hotly pursued. “There was
no rest for them either by night or by day.
If they attempted to snatch a few moments
sleep, they were roused by the hoof-clatter
of Sheridan’s cavalry.” At last, overtaken
and seeing no hope of escape.  Lee agreed
to surrender.  In the largest building of
Appomattox Court House which boasted of
only five dwellings, he and Grant met.
“Lee stood beside a table, wearing a bright
blueish gray uniform, a military hat with a
gold cord, buckskin gauntlets, high riding-
boots and a beautiful sword. Grant, with
his slouched hat, dark blue frock coat
covered with mud, pantaloons tucked in his
soiled boots—wore no sword.
	They shook hands, sat down and soon
agreed to the terms of surrender, April 9th.
	The surrender of Johnston soon followed
and the Great Civil War was at an end.


