IN RURAL ENGLAND.

				XXXV.
	OUR readers may think that when
England is left behind  the title should no
longer be England, but it will appear in the
future that the green fields of the mother
country bear strongly upon the lives of the
subjects of the story.
	The little party consisting of Lord and
Lady Walton their son Edward and five
servants, Dr. Bland and wife, son and two
servants thirteen in number embarked at
Ipswich in the ship Elizabeth on a fine
morning in May, the weather most
propitious and even Lady Anna was almost
jubilant though she had been at times
greatly depressed. Just before leaving
Maitland received word that his mother
would soon return to Walton Hall and look
after things during his absence, which she
added would be only temporary as neither
himself or Anna would remain long in so
wild and unsettled a country as America.
Young Lord Walton was almost unwilling
to go when he found his mother was about
to take up her abode in the home he con-
side sacred to the Waltons, and he had


[Column 1]
been acquainted, yet they were people of 
social distinction, and had come to America
some of them in official positions, and were
well posted concerning affairs in the new
land, and eager for news from the opposite
side of the Atlantic. The first few days
were all bustle and excitement, and Lord
and Lady Walton were made much of in
a social way, and received with enthusiasm,
and for a time this was very gratifying to
Maitland, but the novelty soon wore off.
Afterward he became restless and as he was
wholly unemployed and did not interest
himself in any public affairs, either political
or religious, relating to the colonies, or in-
deed to his neighbors and best friends, he
was a sort of tax on the nervous energy
of his wife, and she had little to spare, for
her health was very delicate which was a
constant source of anxiety to her cousin
Jane, who had hoped to see her improve in
the new country, where there was so much
to divert her thoughts, and turn her at-
tention from the past.
	Dr. Bland himself was not in the best of
health, though he kept up his daily round
of business, and found plenty of occupation
for many needed medical advice, and he
soon became a great favorite. He was also
intensely interested in all that concerned the
Puritans, which somewhat detracted from
his personal influence with those, who still
maintained their allegiance to the crown.
His wife was one with him in this respect,
if not really more ardent and devotedly
religious in sentiment. Her cousin Anna
shared her feelings and this drove Maitland
farther away from her, and caused him
more jealous feelings towards young Bar-
rington, who quite innocent of any such
misunderstanding still visited at the house,
unconscious of causing discord or enstrange-
ment between husband and wife. It was
through young Barrington’s consistent
teaching that Lady Walton had been con-
verted, and she was so pure-minded and
honest-hearted that Barrington held her in
the highest esteem and their friendship was
such as exists between fervent devotees of
the same religious faith.
	Maitland’s jealousy made him unfeeling
aud he taunted Lady Anna one day with
her devotion to Barrington in such a coarse
way that she broke down, and became
hysterical for the first time since she had
grasped a faith which satisfied her soul.
	Dr. Bland was called and having, noticed
beforehand Maitland’s unreasonable sus-
picions lectured him severely after attending
to his patient. He reproached him with
wooing a beautiful innocent and un-
sophisticated girl surreptitiously, and then
after making her his wife without mercy or
manly honor even breaking her heart, by
his own misdemeanors, and now accusing
her of inconstancy of which he himself had
been guilty. Lord Walton could not de-
fend himself, and therefore remained silent,
but obstinate still, hating his friend unre-
lentingly, yet conscious of his faults;
after rating him soundly the Doctor appeal 
led to his wife, telling her if there was
really anything good in him, she could
find the way to his heart. Upon this sug-
gestion Mrs. Bland sought an interview and
found him a little mellowed, because of the
danger to his wife from his unfeeling re-
marks. Mrs. Bland made plain the facts,
she said, ‘‘You have brought my cousin
here of your own volition, and she is in a
strange country away from all ties and as-
sociations except us, and remember were
anything to happen to her in an unknown

[Column 2]
land, you would be called in question by
her brother, and Mr. Harrison, who would
not leave a stone unturned, or a question
unanswered in reference to the circum-
stances, I warn you now to beware how
you trifle with one who has given up all
else for you, and seriously consider how
you have repaid her.”
	Maitland grew pale and trembled for he
saw how dreadfully in earnest Mrs. Bland
was, and knew how indifferent and in-
constant he had been. He did not attempt
to reply only to bow his head upon his
hands like one condemned. After this
stringing rebuke Mrs. Bland left him to his
own reflections saying, ‘‘Should anything
of this kind ever occur again I shall send
for my cousiu Sir Clair Hilliard to come
and he will settle it with you, for patience
has ceased to be a virtue in this case and
Anna is too dear to me and her life is too
precious to be shattered thus mercilessly.
	Maitland’s remorse was so keen that he
begged the Doctor to let him see his wife
and ask forgiveness for the great wrong he
had done, and he would then at once seek
some sort of occupation in the colony, and
no longer remain an idler and would thus
make some amende honorable for his past,
folly.
	It was not long after this that Lady
Walton recovered for it was her mind more
than her body that was affected, though
she was indeed a frail, delicate woman.
Maitland obtained an official position as
collector of revenues for Great Britain not-
withstanding his title, he had not so much
money to support it, and he had made
up his mind to work. When he wrote his
mother the office he had accepted she
answered him disdainfully, though it was
evident from her tone that she was rather
pleased he had decided to remain away for'
the present.
	By and bye both Lord Walton and Dr.
Bland concluded to build and selected a
place not far away from the location then 
occupied. The purchasing of land and the
building of two spacious mansions afforded
some real pleasure to the ladies, and
was a source of happiness to all, perhaps
more to those English servants, who felt it
quite out of place not to have handsome
homes and elegant surroundings, and
longed for the luxuries of “dear old
England.”
	“For Master and Miss’us to be here in
this Injun country, where we might all be
chopped into mince meat and nobody the
wiser, and what would that proud Lady
Walton say! I’ll never call her by that ’talian
name', never! and our sweet Lady—bless
her, she’ll die here any way, not a thing
comfortable, and if it were not for her.
cousin she’d die anyhow, for she don’t care
a straw for anybody here, and is allays
pinin for the old castle, and what for no-
body knows, for her father was an old brute,
Baronet or not, and everybody hated him,
but she’s the dearest, sweetest cretur ever I
laid eyes on,” said the cook who had come
from Walton Hall all the way to ’Meriky
as she called it.
	Such conversation as this was common
among the old and tried servants, they hated
America and were always gossiping about
the good old times, and yet they would al-
lude now and then to the superstitions about
Walton Hall. However they were discreet
in talking to a chance acquaintance, and held
themselves far above the “hired help” of
the Puritans.


