SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1893.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE TO LUCY STONE.
	IN the death of Lucy Stone all advocates
and ardent workers for the enfranchisement
of woman must indeed feel they have lost a
friend and fellow laborer, whose strength
and individual effort was felt wherever her
name was spoken. Always logical, clear-
headed and intelligent in all her arguments
she convinced her audiences where many
more flowery speakers failed to make a last-
ing impression. She had a remarkable face,
full of kindness and true mother-love, and
this not only for her own but for the world
of mankind, the intense love and sympathy
she carried into her work wrought marvels
in the cause, to which she devoted her life,
her talents and her energies with untiring
diligence; and in which she succeeded so
admirably, not only in furthering the high-
er progress of women and of men, but
also in making friends of the opponents of
woman’s suffrage where great and wise
men failed. To Lucy Stone women owe
much of the present popularity of the
suffrage sentiment.
	The newspapers of the East and North
abound with beautiful testimonials of the
pure, true, womanly life of this friend of
humanity. Boston, and the state of Massa-
chussetts may well be justly proud of Lucy
Stone. No doubt a fitting monument of
marble will yet be erected in remembrance
of her faithful service. As a brilliant
example of heroism and meritorious work,
perserving under perplexing difficulties,
and rising superior to all obstacles that
opposed her onward way,her life is a fitting
illustration; the young women of the
present day, have had the way to success
in many directions, in a great measure
cleared of thorns and briers by such
brave women as Lucy Stone. As long as
we have known of woman suffrage and
even before we heard the sound,
when the anti-slavery work was in
progress, we can recall hearing the name of
this woman among women.
	Judge how gladly the writer embraced the 
opportunity of visiting her in her own
home when an invitation was given her, in
the winter of 1886 while spending a few
days in the grand old city of Boston.
Previously several letters had been ex-
changed between the editor of the Woman's
Journal and the writer, and we took the
liberty of making a fraternal call at the
Journal office Park Street, where we met
Mr. Blackwell. Subsequently it was ar-
ranged that we should go out to the home

[Column 2]
of the Blackwells and spend a few hours:
accordingly in company with Mr. Blackwell
we took the old colony R. R. to Neponset.
It was winter time and a sleigh was in
waiting at the depot and driving swiftly
and talking as we went up a steep ascent
Pope’s Hill, we soon reached the handsome
residence of the celebrated woman, whom
we were so eager to see. Standing on the
piazza to welcome us was Lucy Stone her-
self, the sun was just setting in the West
and the glory of that sunset was heightened
by the beautiful light in her face, and the
warm welcome to her stranger guest was
like a benediction. Once inside the cheerful
fire burning brightly we sat and talked of
this and that, recalling things familiar to
one born and bred in New England,and we
felt almost akin when told she was born in
Brookfield the same town where our own
dear mother was born and that we knew so
well. Other subjects such as woman’s
progress in the West, the practical workings
of the ballot for women in Utah which was
then enjoyed, the hopes we entertained of
future advancement etc. In all these and
kindred topics her daughter Alice Stone
Blackwell joined and the time flew on the
wings of the wind. The conversation was
so entertaining that it was difficult to break
off, though we had dined sumptuously and
the hour was growing late. The hostess
showed us her desk where she wrote those
strong and forcible editorials and remarkable
paragraphs that were often silent forces in
remote corners of the world, and as we sat
facing each other at each side of the open
grate just before parting, she said how strange
that two so widely separated, by the whole
width of continent nearly from the Atlantic
almost to the Pacific should meet as ’twere
casually and have so much in common to
talk about.
	Since then we have met several times,and
at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago last
summer she seemed as likely to live for
many years, and looked as fresh and rosy as
most of the younger women. But no doubt
her work here was done and she has passed
to another sphere, and doubtless to solve
some higher problems, leaving her daughter
and others to carry upward and onward the
glorious structure for which she laid so firm
and fair a foundation.
	Honor and praise to the heroine Lucy
Stone, her very name is a talisman of good
and her writings and sayings are an imper-
shable monument to her blessed memory.


