	A FEW SUGGESTIONS.
	
	THERE has been considerable agitation
on the Woman Suffrage subject in the Ter-
ritory of late, and there is likely to be more
in view of the prospect that we are perhaps
soon to have statehood, when it is firmly
believed and ardently desired by a large
majority of women citizens, that the ballot
so unjustly taken from those to whom it
had been given under the laws of the Ter-
ritory will be restored, with all the rights
and privileges pertaining thereto, making
men and women equal before the law.
	Because women are eligible to office does
not constitute them office-holders though
one might think it really did, listening to
the arguments brought to bear against it.
it is not such an easy matter for even men
to get a nomination, and after that to get
sufficient votes to elect them. Judging
from what we know of women they would
be much more likely to nominate a man, a
good man of course, and vote for him,
than one of their own sex consequently
women are in no danger of being elected
to any office for a long time to come. But
we hope and trust the agitation of these
political questions will continue, par- 
ticularly as it is decidedly educational in its
tendency, and that is what is needed. The
women of this Territory married and
single, should try to become somewhat
familiar with the laws of Utah, and the
political conditions as well, and not neglect
the Constitution and Declaration of In-
dependence which are really the foundation
on which the civil and judicial government
of the country is built. The laws affecting
women and their rights should be investi-
gated by them and see where they stand,
and determine in their own minds whether
they are satisfied with such a status or not;
Not accept things for granted without
knowing for themselves and like the wo-
man who had all the rights she wanted on
hearing that in her state a husband might
bequeathe his children away from the
mother, became very indignant and ex-
claimed “Why do not all the mothers cry
out against such a law?” The answer
given her was in part “People who do not
vote pay no attention to the laws until they
suffer from them.” The actual text of the
law was this.
	“Every person authorized by law to make a
will, except married women, shall have a right to
appoint by his will a guardian or guardians for
his children during their minority.”
	There is not in the statute the slightest
clause in favor of the mother, nor any

[Column 2]
limit to the power of the guardian, nor
any word of positive law to protect the
mother.
	We simply refer to this to show how lit-
tle women have been considered in legisla-
ting in the past. The time has come how-
ever when the higher education of women
has brought about many radical changes,
and many more are needed for the benefit
of both men and women, and it is our opinion
that the womanly and more humane element
if given expression at the ballot box and
eventually in the councils of the nation,
will have a salutary effect. Preparatory
work is always necessary in any important
undertaking and therefore we earnestly ad-
vise the women of Utah to study
systmatically, or until they adopt some
method converse together on political mat-
ters in their own locality, town, city or
county.
	In some of the counties during the past
two years very creditable work has been
done in clubs and in classes under the
auspices of the county or ward organiza-
tions. Do not be discouraged because only
a few will take hold, it is the few who scat-
ter the seed for the many. The farmer sows
a small quantity of seed grain, but he reaps
a large harvest, and that harvest feeds a
hungry multitude.
	In another issue of this paper will ap-
pear some items of the Conventions held
in Rich, Utah and Davis counties also
the meetings in Spanish Fork and Spring-
ville which were very interesting indeed.
At Spanish Fork the W. S. A. had a
sumptuous dinner prepared for all the
members of the Association in that flourish-
ing town, numbering if we recollect rightly,
one hundred and ten besides invited guests,
several from Provo, and from Salt Lake.
Mesdames Wells arid Richards Territorial
officers. At Springville the meeting was
exceedingly interesting; there were three
gentlemen on the program, the Mayor of
the City, the editor of the Springville
Independent and Mr. W. H. Kelsey of that
place. The President Mrs. S. A. Boyer
is a very enthusiastic worker in the cause
and has kept the association up to a high
standard notwithstanding many discourage-
ments and indifference which are always
hard to battle with.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake of Zion will be held
in the Fourteenth ward assembly rooms, in
this city, on Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893, meet-
ings commencing at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m.
as usual. As this is an important time
and there is much need of relief among the
poeple in the several wards, it is ardently
desired by the presiding officers of the
society that there should be represent-
atives from each branch present to hear the 
instruction that is likely to be given in
reference to the care of the needy that there
may be no suffering among the people that
can he avoided. A cordial invitation is al-
so extended to all interested in this benevo-
lent work, and especially to the Presidency
of the Church, the presiding Bishops, the 
presidency of this Stake of Zion and the
Bishops of the several wards.
	WE had the pleasure recently of attending
the opening of Miss Maud May Babcock’s
School of Delsarte and Physical Culture in
the Social Hall in this City and of meeting
there her brother Dr W. W. Babcock, who

[Column 2]
in addition to assisting his sister in the
institution is also Resident Physician at St.
Mark’s New Hospital. During the exer-
cises on that occasion Dr. Babcock gave an
interesting talk, explaining, first a history
of the work of physical culture etc. from
the Greek period down, then took up the
work physiologically—the different systems,
physical examinations extant which
would be the basis of all the work—Miss.
Babcock also treated upon this and described
the apparatus which is all new and the
latest patents—1st, mentioned the pulley
weight system first discovered by Dr. D. A.
Sargent, now of Harvard University, th s
system covers about one hundred and fifty
different appliances, of which what is com-
monly know as the chest weight is most
important. These appliances are especially
useful as being adapted to the weakness of
the weak, and the strength of the strong,
and are essentially important, as they can be
used for the development and strength of
particular groups of muscles they have the
rowing machine, chest weight, bridle
stirrup and quarter circle; they have also
full Germam apparatus for German work,
horizontal and vaulting bar, traveling rings,
flying rings, small and large horizontal
parallel bars. Indian Clubs, iron and
wooden dumb bells, wands and rings in the
Swedish work they use all free-hand
gymnastics, except the climbing rope, be-
cause they consider that the most important,
the apparatus work being only accessory of
the measuring appliances, a complete anthro
pometric. Miss Babcock is assisted by Miss
Belle Salmon and Miss Mae Taylor both well
known in this City, and both attended the
summer school at Harvard this year. The
dressing rooms in the building are fitted up
entirely new, bath room has hot and cold
water (entirely new floor in the main hall)
platform nicely fitted up for office and elo-
cution work. On the evening of the open-
ing Miss Babcock recited “King Robert of
Sicily’’ with music by Miss Kate Romney,
Miss Mary Romney rendered a sweet selec-
tion her exquisite voice telling particularly
well on the high notes, and Mr. Hugh
Dougall gave “The Holy City.’’ He
certainly has a magnificent voice and gives
fine expression to the language of the song.
Miss Babcock’s terms of tuition are
reasonable.


