MESA ITEMS.

Editor Exponent.
	DEAR SISTER.:—I have often thought as
my mind reverted to the scenes I passed
through in the city, that I would like to
pen a few lines in regard to our condition
and prospects in this far off sun-kissed land,
although we are behind hand in our Con-
ference reports,—I am happy to say that
our Relief Society in the several wards is
still alive, and doing a good work,consider-
ing the number who are really interested in
it and I hope and trust there will always
be a faithful few, energetic sisters who will
strive to keep the car moving and will
never slacken their efforts for good, how-
ever discouraging the prospects are. There
has been quite a number of changes made
in the officers of the wards and Stake, the
nature of which I presume has been re-
ported by the proper officers. We fully
realize that the race is not to the swift, nor
the battle to the strong, but to those
who hold out faithful to the end, this the
majority of us are trying to do.
	The Mesa Society has a hall which the sisters
have reason to feel proud of. It was built
by the united efforts of our society with
some backing from our good brethren. It
is built of brick and neatly finished and
furnished. Its originial cost was $150.00
but lately they have had some repainting,
and furnishing, costing about $70.00 more.
It was dedicated by Apostle J. H. Smith,
and since then the sweet peaceful inspiration
of the Spirit of God, has met with us in all
our meetings, many have remarked that
this influence was felt as soon as they
entered the hall. However we feel truly
grateful, that we have been blessed with

[Column 2]
means to enable us to accomplish this much;
of course the building of it has kept our
treasury, pretty well drained; but we felt
that we were putting our means to good
use, and we were obeying the counsel of
our leaders; I remember the last Relief
Society Conference I attended in the
Assembly Hall in Salt Lake, Sister Zina
Young laid great stress upon this subject,
advising the sisters not to hoard up their
means to make a large showing, but after
the sick and needy were cared for to take
their surplus means and build them halls for
meeting purposes. I can say with pride
that our society has filled its mission faith-
fully in caring for the sick in our midst,
frequently hiring experienced nurses to
care for those who were not able to help
themselves, and also in assisting those
faithful sisters in the Indian Mission, per-
haps a few words in regard to this mission
would not be out of place. Sister Susan
Savage is President of the Relief Society
of the Papago Ward which is a mixture of
Papago Maricopa and Pimo tribes. She
has Sisters Tiffany and Webb for Counselors
also Sister Susan Brady to assist them.
I don’t believe there was ever a band of
missionaries sent to the nations of the earth,
who were more anxious to do good and fill
their missions faithfully than these sisters.
	They (the natives) have great faith in the
healing power and when they are sick they
frequently send for those sisters to
administer to them. Sister Savage and
counselors, with characteristic energy, have
started a manuscript paper amongst them
inviting the Stake sisters to contribute
articles that will be best suited to their un-
derstandings. Sister Savage has through
faith and prayer succeeded in gaining a
knowledge of the language, sufficient to
interpret to their understanding what is
written which pleases them and is of great
benefit to them. They have a fine choir of
beautiful voices and sing from the L. D. S.
Hymn Book. Sister Thankful Harmon
(now deceased) was very energetic in train-
ing them in their singing exercises and was
missed very much when she died about a
year ago.
	Perhaps I have extended this article too
much already, use it as seemeth thee good!
With good wishes for all Zion’s Workers.
I am as ever your friend, S. M. POMEROY.


