U.W. P. C.

	THIS organization met on the 29th, day
of the month, November, with the new of-
ficers in charge. The meeting was held in
the apartments of President Ellis R. Shipp
who occupied the chair, and was called
promptly on time, 7-30, p. m.
	The meeting was opened by prayer of-
fered by the honorary President E. B. Wells
and the roll call was responded to by
Thanksgiving Sentiments, original or
selected.
	Mrs. Nellie C. Taylor and Mrs. Elizabeth
Stevenson, were admitted to membership
and Mrs. M. A. V. Greenhalch was voted
in as Vice President at large for the club.
	The Secretary, read the By Laws of the 
club, and following a suggestion of Presi-
dent E. B. Wells, they were amended to
admit of the acceptance of members on
verbal recomendations instead of the writ-
ten ones hitherto required by the By Laws;
which amendment was readily adopted by
all of the members.
	The evening program was then carried
out as follows:


New England Thanksgiving stating the
origin of the custom among the Pilgrims
and the way of celebrating it ever since.
This interesting paper was prepared and
read by Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	The Sec'y then read a paper written by
Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze on the "Influence of
Thanksgiving" on the spiritual being;
making some quotations given in literature,
ancient and modern, etc.
	Miss Olea Shipp favored the club with a 
choice instrumental selection which was
much appreciated.
	President Ellis R. Shipp read an original
poem on the subject of the hour. "Thanks-
giving."
	Several of the members gathered around
the piano and sang Will Carlton's Thanks-
giving Hymn.
	Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalch, in compliance
with a request of the President, addressed
the members. After expressing her
pleasure at meeting with the club this be-
ing her first attendance, though a member,
she described in a pleasing style the man-
ner of observing Thanksgiving in Old
England, gave the origin of the custom in
that country which dated back to the
Druids.
	This completed the program and the
regular meeting was adjourned, benediction
pronounced by Mrs. E. Stevenson.
	Dainty refreshments were served ac-
companied by the usual pleasant chat,
during which time Miss Olea Shipp rendered
some low, sweet music much to the enjoy-
ment of all.
	The numbers for the December program
are: Answering roll call by naming
Authors, and a quotation from their most
noted work. Essay on the Sixth Sense (or
something else) L. L. G Richards;
Biography of J. G. Whittier, Dr. R. B.
Pratt; Selection from Whittier, Miss
Patterson; Music, Gladys Woodmansee;
New Year’s Poem, Mrs. Dickinson.
