XXXVI.

	WHEN young Lord Walton made up his
mind to work and accepted the official
position, he set about it in earnest though
he had never known the routine, of actual
employment. In this as in everything else
Dr. Bland stood by him, and gave every
encouragement possible. Lady Anna freely
forgave the past and was more hopeful of a
happy future.
	The only serious source of uneasiness 
was the failure of Dr. Bland’s health. His
wife feared the change of climate and con-
ditions had been the cause, but the good
Doctor assured her he would soon be better
and that there was no need of worry about
him, he should pull through all right; the
winter was rather trying, weather severely
cold, and snow and frost such as in England
they had never experienced. Lady Anna
needed constant attention from her cousin
for she was not strong, and had more to en-
dure than usual, and the thought of what
might transpire, were the Doctor not able to
attend upon her when needed, was a
source of uneasiness to Jane Bland. Some-


[Column 1]
times she felt as if she must ask Mr. Har-
rison to come to America and join them, 
that there might be a strong support for 
them in case of any emergency, but with 
this feeling there was always the presenti-
ment which had haunted her from  their 
first acquaintance. She knew if she wrote 
for her cousin Clair, Mr. Harrison would 
certainly accompany him, and besides 
Clair would not be the least use in any 
difficulty; he was very boyish and excellent 
company when all was prosperous, but in 
adversity he would not be able to render 
the moral support necessary. Mrs. Bland 
felt in her inmost soul some desperate trial 
was at hand, and yet there was no one to
whom she could speak of it.  While these 
impressions were so strong upon her, Lady 
Anna Walton was entirely unconcered, 
except occasionally noticing how pale and 
thin the Doctor was growing, but when-
ever she mentioned the fact to her cousin
she changed the subject, and Lady Anna felt
there could not be any danger, or her 
cousin would observe it. 
	The wardrobe of the little stranger soon 
expected occupied much of Lady Anna's 
time and thought, and her little Edward 
was growing quite interesting, and she was 
really more contented and happier than she 
had been before.  Maitland made many 
new acquaintances in his business, and as 
the men he met were mostly substantial 
enterprising men of ability and sterling 
character, his own aims in life expanded 
and his ideas changed so much that he was 
really companionable to Dr. Bland, who 
enjoyed his society and conversation and 
his friendship was a real pleasure and
satisfaction.
	The Doctor realized in part his failing 
health, and when he found his cough 
so troublesome as to keep him indoors, he 
reflected seriously as to the future; he 
hoped his wife was not aware of what he 
knew himself concerning his condition, 
and she, poor woman had the same feeling. 
It was painful to both, and yet each dreaded 
to acknowledge the sad truth. 
	And so the winter wore on, there was 
much to interest the Doctor in this new 
country, and his advice was asked by men 
in grave matters of state, as well as in his 
profession, he ranked high in the community 
was liberal in his views, and often a 
mediator between those who differed 
radically in opinions, especially of a re-
ligious character. Such men are useful 
members in any society, and in trying
times, when cummunities are being formed, 
such stalwarts are invaluable. The ad-
vantage a physician has of intimate as-
sociation with people in all conditions of 
life is highly educational in the best and 
broadest sense of the word, and Dr. Bland 
was naturally a man of superior qualities 
and attributes, and withal so modest and 
unassuming that aspiring, ambitious men
were not afraid to trust him.  He inspired 
confidence in all and his sympathies were deep and strong. 
	In the long winter evenings when his 
wife was busy with her needle if his cough 
would permit they would talk freely of the 
future of the colonies, and of their own two 
families and the Doctor dwelt much upon 
the future of their boy, cautioning his wife 
in regard to the discipline he must have to 
prepare him for life's battles.  And yet 
these two husband and wife could not 
open their hearts to each other concerning 
that which was of such vital importance. 
	When alone in his study Dr. Bland oc-
[Column 2]
cupied himself with writing out his 
thoughts and views, determined that if he 
must leave his wife and child his affairs 
should be so plainly  understood that there
could be no complications to perplex and 
distress his wife whom he loved devotedly 
and reverenced as brave and wise men ever
do when happily mated. 
	Spring came at last, though it was late 
in April before the frost and snow entirely 
disappeared, the winter had been long yet 
not unpleasant, for in many ways there had 
been true domestic enjoyment and agreeable 
social intercourse among the friends and 
neighbors.
	No news had come from over the sea ex-
cept from Maitland's mother, there were 
few near relatives, to write and Mr. Har-
rison and Clair were still wandering they 
knew not exactly where.  Some of the 
servants had letters from the vicinity of 
the old Castle, telling of vague rumors 
concerning Walton Hall and the doings of 
the Italian Count with the horrid foreign 
name, but Mrs. Bland warned the servants 
not to speak of it to her cousin, and though 
they were fond of gossip they kept it 
among themselves.  Finally news came to 
Maitland that there was a separation,
there had been an open quarrel caused by 
the Count's jealousy, and Maitland was 
wanted at Walton Hall.  It was a critical 
time for him to leave home, his wife needed 
the most tender care; the Doctor's health 
precarious, in a new country where every-
thing was so different, it was a most perp-
plexing dilemma.  His lawyers at home 
insisted upon his actual presence, and would 
take no refusal.  Mrs. Bland was a sort of 
oracle in family matters and the subject 
was referred to her for a final decision. 
   Mrs. Bland could not conscientiously 
consent to Maitland's going away until her 
cousin had passed the ordeal that was now 
very soon expected, and the new mansion 
was unfinished except a few rooms 
they had moved into and occupied during the 
winter. 
	"My cousin is too delicate at present to 
be left, wait a few months or weeks at least and 
see her made more comfortable before 
you think of going for you may be detained 
a long time, these family matters per-
taining to business and property are not 
settled hurriedly, and Maitland, if you 
should leave Anna and anything serious 
were to happen, you would never cease to 
regret it," said Mrs. Bland.
	"When I do go Jane I shall trust all to 
you, I have no one competent to take 
charge in my absence, Simpson does well 
enough when I am here to give orders, but 
Anna has no idea of managing and I can 
only depend upon your supervision. It 
seems a great deal to ask of you, and the 
Doctor so poorly, but I'll try and recom-
pense you by bringing you some luxuries 
when I come back again, such as cannot be 
obtained in America."
	"I shall do whatever is possible for my 
cousin under any circumstances, without 
expecting remuneration, it is a pleasure to 
me to be with her, and were anything to 
happen," here Mrs. Bland completely broke 
down, and Maitland was at a loss to know 
what she meant.  He could not understand, 
but was completely adrift, for he considered 
Jane a heroine equal to any emergency, and if she failed what could be done, he would not dare to go away. Mrs. Bland regained her voice in a few moments, and went on to say, that she realized her husband's condition to be serious and in view of Anna's sickness too, he needed great 
courage. "The servants are very good especially Anna's maid and the nurse you brought from Waiton Hall, but we need 
some one who has greater knowledge, and I have been looking about to secure such help, but have not succeeded."
	"I shall bring my mother to America when I return and we shall feel more settled, I will make some disposal of the 
estate, for after what has happened mother will not live at Walton Hall alone." Mrs. Bland made no reply she felt how weak 
Lady Walton would be were any real trouble to come, but could not say so to Maitland of his only near relative. Maitland assured Mrs. Bland he would remaiu until she thought proper for him to go and so matters went on as hertofore Dr. Bland improved a little as the weather grew warmer so he could ride about over the hill and visit his patients, and his wife grew more hopeful of his recovery. Maitland wrote his mother he could not leave his wife as yet, and the lawyers must pospone the business. 
	One beautiful morning in May, in the 
new mansion, a daughter was born, and for 
days after Lady Anna's life was despaired 
of; Dr. Bland watched her constantly and 
her cousin Jane never left the sick room, 
Maitland's visit to England was given up, 
or never alluded to, and throughout the 
house, all was dark and quiet, except the 
whisperers of the attendants, save when in 
her delirium the young mother talked 
hysterically, and confusedly of the old 
castle and of Walton Hall. Mr. Barrington 
the young minister who had made such a 
decidedly religious impression upon 
Lady Walton came often to see her with Mait-
land' consent, for he was so utterly power-
less to render any assistance himself, he was 
glad to have the support of so faithful a 
friend as Barrington had been from their 
first metting, and Mrs. Bland felt spiritually 
uplifted by the presence of this devoted 
minister of the "new faith" as it was called 
by them; Lady Anna was always more 
passive and rested better when he was in 
the house. 
During the early days of her illness Anna 
had spoken to her cousin prophetically of 
what might transpire and Jane had carefully 
noted it all, for her own premonitions con-
firmed it and she had told the Doctor, and 
also talked to Maitland, of her fears. The 
whole household mourned, for the lady 
was greatly beloved; she did not seem to 
suffer severe pain, but gradually grew 
weaker and weaker, and finally passed in-
to a deep sleep never more to waken in this 
world; just as her mother died or as Mrs. 
Bland had heard it from some of the old 
servants at Hilliard castle. 
	Maitland' grief was uncontrollable, he 
could not and would not be comforted, his 
remorse was pitifnl, and Dr. Bland had 
hard work to persuade him to leave the 
room after all was over while the attendants 
with Mrs. Bland performed the last sad 
services for their "sweet mistress"


