WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference of Wayne
Stake, convened Aug. 28th, at 2 p. m.
President Jane S. Coleman presiding, the
choir sang “We thank thee O, God for a
prophet,” prayer offered by Elder Joseph
Eccersley. Singing “O God we raise to
thee.” This being our first Conference
there were no minutes to read. The
President said she was pleased to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society and also
the Brethren, spoke upon the duties of the
sisters, hoped we would be able to ac-
complish much good, appreciated our Stake
organization, as a great blessing, also
spoke on faith and good works.  Verbal
Reports were given, President Louisa Tay-
lor, Fremont, Margaret Taylor, Loa, Helen
Maxfield, East Loa, Coun. Mary Bullard,
Thurber, Prest. Mary Ann Lords, Blue
Valley, all reported their branches in good
condition and the spirit of union prevail-
ing.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks, reported for
Cainsville and Aldridge, spoke favorable,
made remarks upon the great blessings we
enjoy, spoke of the good instructions given,
hoped we would practice them in our


lives and increase in faith and the gifts of
the Gospel.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth, of Loa,
said it was a pleasure to meet with the
Relief Society, was gratified to see so
many brethren present, gave much good
counsel to parents, spoke also upon sus-
taining the WOMAN'S EXPONENT by sub-
scribing for it, spoke upon other subjects
pertaining to our holy religion practical and
good.
	Counselor G. Bastian of the stake Presi-
dency, spoke in loving terms of the sisters
of the Relief Society, their good works
their charity in an appieciative way gener-
ally. 
	Our esteemed President Willis E.
Robinson, made encouraging remarks on
the labors of the sisters had been edified
with the instructions given, prayed the
blessing of God to rest upon the Relief
Society in all its branches.
	Singing “O say what is Truth.” Bene- 
diction by Elder U. V. Stewart. Con-
ference adjourned for three months.
Florence M. Williams, Stake Secy.


MISS MARGATET IRWIN, one of the As-
sistant Labor Commissioners of England,
reports that in the tailors’ workshop of the
Co-operative Society of Glasgow, the wo-
men were lately taking work at less wages
than men, in work usually done by men.
The men struck because their demand
that the women should be dismissed was
not granted. The Tailors’ Union made
peace by arranging that the women should
be paid the same wages as men. This is a
good way of settling troubles.
	IMMEDIATELY after suffrage was given
to the women of Colorado, the sixty-eight
leagues of the Equal Suffrage Association
resolved themselves into leagues for polit-
ical study. The book selected is John
Fiske’s Civil Government.—Ex.


