TO OUR PATRONS AND AGENTS.
	WE very much regret being obliged to
issue our Christmas and New Year’s paper
in one number, but unavoidable circum-
stances compel it, and we earnestly entreat
the patrons and agents of the Exponent
to use their utmost influence and exertions
to increase its circulation, and urge upon
agents in all localities to solicit subscriptions
and make collections of outstanding accounts
wherever possible, meantime taking into
consideration the valuable service it has
rendered the women of the Territory and
throughout the Relief Society everywhere,
as well as the advancement of women
generally especially in reference to the
ballot for women. All members of the
Relief Society and all who believe in
Woman’s Suffrage and woman’s uplifting
in all directions should subscribe for the
first woman’s paper published in the Rocky
Mountain region.


[Column 1]
A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
	A HAPPY NEW YEAR is the salutation
that greets old and young at the present
time, and it is pleasant to hear the cheerful
tones repeating the hopeful words that
never grow old, but each year brings them
back fresh and crisp as ever.
	The new year comes full of hopefulness
from all for better days, and yet the last
dear old year brought with it many bless-
ings. After all none of us know whether
these days of adversity when money is
tight, and a panic seems to have struck the
country are not good for us all; sorrows have
their purpose and if these trials and per-
plexities will make us more gratified and
appreciative of the many blessings we do
enjoy, and lift our hearts to Him who is the
fountain of all light and love, if there is a
lesson to be learned through suffering, then
we should not repine, but accept our cup of
bitterness, if such it be, trusting in Him
who will overrule all for the good of those
who acknowledge His hand in all things.
	If we as a people should enumerate the
blessings of the year that is now numbered
with the past, we should find much to re-
joice over. The Salt Lake Temple to
which so many have looked anxiously for-
ward has been finished and dedicated to
the Lord, great promises have been given
on conditions of faithfulness, that should
encourage all who believe in the Latter
day work. None of our great leaders have
been taken from us, during this past year,

[Column 2] 
their lives have all been spared; throughout
the vales of the mountains peace and plenty
has reigned, and no great calamity has
befallen us here, such as has visited many
other countries and localities. For this
protection, and these blessings and many
others innumerable, we should be humble
and give the praise to our Father in Heaven
who controls the elements, guides all
things, and can turn the rivers of water
whithersoever He will.
	If some extra exertion is necessary that
the poor and unfortunate may have food
and raiment during the winter, it will
bring into active exercise the kindly and
generous feelings and sentiments of those
who minister to the needy, and every bless-
ing bestowed will enrich the giver, for
charity bestowed in a true spirit is a bless-
ing and development of good and brings a
rich reward and satisfaction to Him who
gives freely and wisely. The present con-
dition of scarcity too, may awaken thought
in the direction of providing against such a
state of things in the future; employment
for the working people is one of the best
preventives of poverty and want. Men
and women who can co-operate together
for charitable purposes, should also be able
to co-operate to establish industries, that
men may work for their bread, and women
too, and not be dependent on charity; this
would be truer charity than the giving of
alms.
	Certainly no thoughtful person can help
feeling that the past year has been a mar-
velously great one in the advancemeut of
the world. The Columbian Exposition
alone would mark it as an epoch in the
history of all time, significant for its bril-
liant success and the knowledge of industry,
science and art, placed within the reach of
so many millions of people for their enlight-
enment upon these fundamental subjects.
The great Congresses and Parliaments too,
where men and women eminent for learn-
ing and achievements from all parts of the
world read and sopke to the thousands upon
thousands, was an education in itself of the
higher and grander truths of humanity and
the universe. Reflecting upon these won-
drous events with all the details in one’s
mind that can possibly be comprehended,
one queries whether the new year just
opening can give us as great opportunities
and as much more food for cultivation as
the one just gone.
	In summing up the achievements of the
years it must not be forgotten the rapid
strides forward in the cause of woman’s
suffrage. New Zealand afar off holds up a
beacon light to the world. Australia is
marching onward in the same direction and
that which was least expected has already
come to pass. Colorado our near neighbor
has done herself proud in admitting woman
to equal suffrage. Everywhere the cause
is gaining, and ere long other brilliant stars
will be added to Wyoming and Colorado.
	The tendency of the World’s Fair was
decidedly in the direction of woman’s po-
litical emancipation. This fact was con-
stantly apparent. The conspicuous part
taken by women in the actual business of
the Fair, the good judgment and financial
ability displayed by the Board of Lady
Managers, and the many women com-
missioners and foremost workers, has
caused many men and women heretofore
opposed to woman’s enfranchisement to
very materially change their views upon
his subject. Not only has this been a

[Column 3] 
wonderful year but the 19th century is,
we believe, unparalleled in history since the
advent of the Savior the “Light of the
World” the Christian era.


