SAN JUAN STAKE.

	MINUTES of the San Juan Stake Relief
Society Conference held in Monticello Aug.
21st, 1893. Stake President Martha Ham-
mond presiding. Choir sang “Redeemer
of Israel.” Prayer by Bishop F. I. Jones;
choir then sang “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.”
	President Martha Hammond made
a few interesting remarks, stated that she
had enjoyed herself very much during
Conference. She regreted that there were
not more of the older sisters present, desired
to take a trip around the Stake and visit the
societies.
	Stake Counselor Mary N. Jones said by
becoming acquainted with the sisters and
attending meetings we receive the Spirit of
our calling and will be blessed. She had a
good feeling toward all of her sisters and
hoped they had toward her, felt to encourage
the sisters to attend Conference and other
meetings.
	President Kristen Nielsen of Bluff Ward
Norah Hammond of Mancos, Mary M.
Jones of Monticello each reported her
society as in a good lively condition, good
attendance and a feeling of peace and love
among the sisters.


President Hammond thought there ought
to be one representative from each ward.
Advised the sisters to work for the interest
of the Society and to store up grain. She
also spoke of the many ways in which the
sisters could put means in the treasury, but
not to keep it in the treasury if there were
any poor who needed it; counseled the
sisters to labor with the spirit of their call-
ing, she also advised the sisters to take the
Exponent.
	Stake President F. A. Hammond felt to
endorse all the reports, and all that had been
said would be well for us to remember, and
gather up all of the instructions given in
Conference and carry them out, encouraged
the sisters to store up grain and follow out the
counsels of Eliza R. Snow and Bathsheba
Smith. He also stated that those who fol-
lowed out the counsels of those placed over
them were wise; if we would do this we
should have something to eat and to give to
the poor emigrant. He spoke at some
length on economy and advised the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. to treasure up
all they could and make the best possible
use of it.
	Stake Counselor William Halls spoke a
short time, bore testimony to what had
been said and that our religion would not
do us much good if we did not make good
use of it.
	Stake Counselor P. D. Lyman, endorsed
the reports and the remarks that had been
made, said there were many organizations
among the sisters, and many among the
men and the men are interested in them and
they can both do a great deal of good in
helping each other. The wider women’s
field is and the more liberty they have the
more good they can do. If the women had
their rights the less blasphemy there would
be in the world.
	President Hammond stated that the
Conference would be adjourned for three
months. Choir sang, "Great is the Lord,"
benediction by Bishop Jense Nielsen.
