RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

[Continued from Oct. 15.]

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, "Do what is right," &c.
Prayer was offered by President M, Isabella
Horne, continued by singing "Come come
ye Saints. '
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake
was the first speaker, she reported all the
branches of the Society in good condition
except Eureka, the mines there having
closed had caused a depression in every-
thing, spoke about the wheat that had been
stored and of blessings in general and
mentioned the large number of yards of
carpet the society had made and donated to

[Column 2]
the Manti Temple which was very much
appreciated, the sisters were always willing
and generous when called upon to do to
the very extent of their ability.
	President Susan Grant of Davis Stake
spoke principally of what had been done in
saving grain, urged the mothers to be united
with the fathers in using their influence
at home and elsewhere, union in the
family was necessary for the training of
the children.
	President Elizabeth Yates of Millard
Stake explained that they were all working
people not many wealthy and none very
poor, she tried to be careful of the wheat
and keep adding to it, she often felt sur-
prised to get the little things that are do-
nated from time to time, and the good ac-
complished through the generosity of the
sisters who have little enongh for their own
comfort, yet are always willing to divide
	THE next speaker was Apostle F. D.
Richards who stated that he felt compli-
mented in being invited to attend the
Sisters’ conference, was glad to see so many
present, thought we should realize what we
were called to do, as a society, and not get
in too great a hurry, but take things
quietly; a sentiment prevailed largely about
strong-willed persons, but that will should
be regulated if good were to be the result;
but when one says "I can do nothing of
myself only to do the will of my Father
that sent me," that was the right spirit and
feeling.
	President Richards referred to the meet-
ing held in the morning at the Church
University Building in which President
Woodruff had spoken to the brethren as-
sembled in regard to the grain that had
been stored up by the sisters for a time of
want or need, said the President had given
excellent advice which would be published
for the benefit of all interested in the
matter.
	The Lord has promised many adversities
and famine is one of them; the sisters had
been helping the brethren all the time, to
build houses, and now the speaker
thought the brethren would help the sisters
in return, thought if we solicited their help
in the spirit of kindness, and asked for
what we wanted and kept on asking and
importuning we would get it; the speaker
urged the sisters to take good care of the
sick and needy and not hesitate because
they are not good, they must have atten-
tion, "cherish the attribute of love, that
will help you in all your labors, it is an old
saying "Love laughs at locksmiths," it is
certainly a potent power, we should all
cultivate it, we all need it;" he then gave
some advise to the sisters in regard to buy-
ing wheat, study the markets, knew wheat
would be rising in value. President Young
and other brethren traveled through the
Stakes of Zion counseling the people to lay
up wheat; quoted from the 14th Chapter of
Revelations "Another angel flying etc.
for the hour of his judgment has come;"
a hurricane has just swept over the coast
which has killed two or three thousand
people at one fell swoop; when people build
banks, hotels etc., let them remember the
hour of His judgment has come." Presi-
dent Cannon has been speaking recently
upon false doctrine being insidiously in-
troduced and that much mischief is being
done, one family had asked to have their
names taken from the Church books.
Elder Richards warned the people against
these false doctrines, said every Latter-day
Saint who don't know the truth of this

[Column 3]
work, should get a testimony by faith and
prayers; sometimes in sickness people run
after the Doctor and lose their faith in the
servants of God and the priesthood; "these
people may make great pretensions but the
Lord has warned us against those decep-
tions, could we stand firm if we saw fire
come down out of heaven? by and by there
will be magicians, they will be equal to
Moses day when sticks were turned to
serpents and back again to sticks;" Presi-
dent Richards also alluded to Theosophy,
and other erroneous doctrines, these things
are moving more among the sisters than
the brethren; then referred to the doctrine
of reincarnation, said it used to be called
the baby resurrection, it was brought to the
attention of Joseph the Prophet, by a
polished gentleman, Joseph said there was
no truth in it, other errors sprang up,
Millerism, second-adventists, spiritualists
and mesmerizes, "the Lord is not going to
tell us, beforehand the day nor the hour of
certain events: in the Savior's time, no one
knew except the Father and Him only,
stick to the scriptures and hearken to the
words of the servants of God, and the
Gospel as revealed to you in your native
lands, thank the Lord for every blessing."
Elder Richards closed his remarks by bless-
ing all assembled and said go home rejoic-
