LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the  Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th,  Ward Assembly Rooms,
Sep. 9th, 1893.
    President M.  Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing, “O, my  Father, thou   that
dwellest,” prayer  by  Counselor  E.  J.
Stevenson.     After   singing   again  the
minutes  of the  previous  meeting  were
read and approved.
    No response to  President  Horne's call
for   minutes   from  any   of   the  Young
Ladies or Primary Associations.
    Sister E. S. Taylor President  V.  L.  M.

[Column 2]
I.  A. said she desired the  faith and prayers
of the sisters  to  enlighten  her   mind  and
rest on us all. “Often the speaker is more
blest than those who  hear.  A  few sisters
meet here,  semi-monthly,  but how small
the number!    If  they   were  anxious  to
speak  good  of God,  and  his kindness to
them, quite as anxious as to devote days to
recreation, there  would  be so many more
here.   But God's children  are  not  alike.
Some are more diligent,  some  are  more
earnest, some are more faithful than others.
When the time comes, and Christ comes to 
number up his jewels,  all the faithful ones
will be there.   The accounts of destruction,
misery and death that we read in the papers
are terrible!   Do we pause and think?  Did
not God say He would pour out his indig-
nation on the inhabitants of the  earth, for
they did not receive his gospel, neither his
prophets.   Let  us  here in  Zion,  look  to
ourselves, serve God and be  prayerful, ask
God for aid when we are cast down,  we can
go to Him and  He will send  the spirit  of
love and peace to us.   Then when we have
finished  our  work,  he   will  take  us  to
dwell with Him.” Sister Mary E. Kimball
and Sister E. A. Watmough  each  bore  a
faithful testimony to the truth  of the  Gos-
pel, and their desires to be ever  found true
to the same.
	Sister L. Greene Richards spoke of some
of the exercises she had  witnessed  at  the
Summer School held  at  Provo, also  of a
dream she had of  her  father, after  he had
gone from this life; thought we should study
and go to school  in the next life,  and  go
on  learning forever.
	A sister in the congregation spoke well,
and exhorted the sisters not to judge each
other.  Thought we should feel  for  each
other, both the rich and the  poor, and pre-
pare for the coming of the Savior said many
other good things.  Sister Mary Leach and
Bird each bore faithful testimonies.  Sister
M. V. Dougal, testified  that  the  spirit of
God was in the meeting, gave  many good
instructions, and exhorted the sisters to be
humble,   to   think  of the   Savior  who
descended below all things  that  he might
rise above all things, &c.
   Sister  C.   C.   R.   Wells,   spoke  very
encouragingly, regretted that she could not
attend these meetingsoftener; felt comforted
in the testimonies borne here today.   Said
she believed we would go  on  in study and
labor after we went from  here.  The spirit
will reveal the truth to us, “I feel  that we
should sustain each  other,  sustain home
industries and seek to build up the kingdom
temporally; as sisters we should branch out
in manufactures and not buy articles from a-
broad; spoke of the Woman's Co-op store,
urged the sisters to sustain it. Said their
milliner and  urged  the  sisters  to  patronize  the
Institution; said  many  more  instructive
things and asked God to  keep  us all faith-
ful.
	President Horne announced the Quarterly
Conference of  the Relief Society and desired
the sisters to attend.   Testified to the good
spirit here today;  spoke of the outlook  for
the crop next year, let  us  ask  God  not to
cut it off, but still bless us and sustain us in
our many needs.   Let us be faithful, never
cherish unkind thoughts to  each other,  be
slow to take offence and be  humble.  God
bless us and make us wise virgins, prepared
to meet Him when he comes.
	“Owing to  the  General  Semi-annual
Conference  in October  coming  on  our
regular   Meeting-day   also   our  Relief


Society Conference on our next meeting
day, this meeting will stand adjourned for
six weeks."  Sang Doxology.  Benediction
by Sister M. W. Wilcox.
