A PLEASANT JOURNEY AND VISIT.
	By invitation of Mrs Mary A. Hyde
President of the Relief Society in Sanpete
Stake we attended the Conference of that
Society held at Ephraim on the 22nd of
September Mrs. E. S. Taylor General
President of Young Ladies’ Associations
having also been invited to attend the Y.
L. M. I. A. Conference held at the same
place on the 23rd, we journeyed together
over the R. G. W. R. R. and had a most de-


lightful time. It being the season of
of charming colors and the sunshine flood-
ing the hills with that peculiar beauty of
the blue and crimson glow known to the
Wasatch range, the autumnal tints shone
out vividly and the mountain scenery was
picturesque beyond description. At
Ephraim we received a hearty welcome,
and the feeling of calm content that perva-
ded this locality, was a decided change from
the bustle of the city and the constant echo-
ing of hard times. A bountiful harvest has
been the reward of toil and thrift, and the
people are happy in the possession of peace-
ful homes in these mountain vales and are
not panting for the filthy lucre that
brings so much care and anxiety and very
often strife.
	The sisters in the Relief Society and in
the Y. L. M. I. A. are doing a good work
in an even unassuming way, but as we ex-
pect the secretary to send us a synopsis of
the minutes of the Conference, we will
speak of the pleasant reunion party,and the
Fair, which were a part of the program in
connection with the visit.
	On Friday and Saturday in one of the
large halls of the new schoolhouse where
the Conference was held, the Y. L. had
arranged an exhibit; and it made a very
creditable showing; there were many
articles of fancy work and painting that
were well executed. The botanical speci-
mens were particularly good and well-
arranged and would have been suitable for
the World’s Fair. We have not time to
enumerate the variety or speak of their
merits, only in a general way to say the
young women deserve praise for the sensible
effort, and though the entrance fee was very
small they made some money for present
needs, and it was certainly a commendable
enterprise.
	The dinner and entertainment or reunion
took place Friday evening after the close
of the Conference, in the hall where the
meeting had been held. The dinner was
delicious and handsomely served, and
some of the young ladies played the organ
during dinner time, which added to the
enjoyment. Afterwards there was singing
and recitations and a manuscript paper
“The Literary Fly’’ was read by the
editor. We were most hospitably enter-
tained by Brother Willardson, President
Canute Peterson, Bishop Dorius and the
household of these good brethren, and we
thoroughly enjoyed the visit, the meetings,
the conversation, the meeting with old
friends and new, and noting the happiness
and prosperity and progress of the people
who live more within their own means and
are comparatively free from difficulties and
embarrassments.


