WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


She officiated in the Temple at Nauvoo,
during the fall of 1845 or winter of 1846.
	She came to Utah in Elder Parley P.
Pratt’s company, arriving in Salt Lake
Valley in September 1847—she was one of
the pioneers in the Church in all its move-
ments.
	Her husband, Robert Blaskel Thompson
died in Nauvoo on the 17th, of Aug. 1841.
	She made a visit to Canada starting Nov.
15th, 1871, to see her old friends and the
relatives of her husband and to gather
geneological records, returning to this city
March 16th, 1872, and the same year she
accompanied President George A. Smith
and his Palestine party, as far as England
where she remained, visiting her numerous
relatives and friends, gathering records and
bearing her testimony to them of the truths
of the gospel, and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith, until June 1873, when she
returned home.
	This beloved and respected sister and
veteran mother passed away at last in peace,
and her death was doubtless a triumphant
entrance behind the vail, where she would
meet her husband, and the Prophet arid
Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum, her Sister
Mary and her brothers who had gone before,
and an innumerable company of departed
Saints, with many of whom she had
labored in the Latter-day work in this
dispensation.
	Sister Thompson leaves one daughter
Sister Mary Jane Thompson, who is great-
ly bereaved through her mother’s loss, for
they were inseparable companions in life;
and a grandson the namesake of his noble
grandfather Robert B. Thompson, besides
hosts of relatives and friends who esteemed
her for her many virtues and as a venerable
mother in Israel. Her name will be held
in honorable remembrance by the Latter-
day Saints throughout all time, and may
our Heavenly Father comfort her daughter
and may she follow in the footsteps of her
illustrious mother and attain to the same
excellence and be worthy the same exalta-
tion.
	“Those who have battled for truth with their
	mind and might,
	With their garments clean and their armor
	bright.”


