SALT LAKE STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Salt Lake Stake convened
in the Assembly Hall, Friday Sep. 22nd,
1893, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Meeting opened with singing, “O
Jesus the Giver ’ etc. Prayer was offered
by Catherine Smith, singing “Glorious
things are sung of Zion,” etc. Roll called
and responded to as follows, twenty-three
branches represented by Presidents, nine by
Counselors, one by Secretary; six, by
Teachers, making  in all thirty-nine
branches, leaving nine without representa-
tion. The minutes of previous Conference
were then read and accepted. Also Statisti-
cal, Financial and Treasurer’s Report.
President Horne said it had been voted up-
on that we omit reading the reports from
each branch, as it took up so much time
congratulated the sisters on sending in so
many reports, as it enabled us to have so
complete a total. Regretted there was not
a better attendance at the conference. As
this was head-quarters for this stake of
Zion, we should set a good example. All
officers should be present to represent their
respective branches. As verbal reports
were given from county wards at the last
Conference, would have reports from city

[Column 2]
wards. 1st ward, Prest. Steel; 2nd, Prest.
Bassett; 3rd, Coun. Smith; 4th, Prest.
Pierce; 5th, Coun. Buchanan; 6th, Prest.
West; 7th, Prest. Lambert; 9th, Prest.
Mair; 10th, Prest. Paul; 11th, Prest.
Mc Master; 12th, Prest. Druce; 13th, Coun.
Spencer; 14th, Prest. Wilcox; 15th, Coun.
Price; 16th, Prest. Reid; 18th, Sec. Wright;
19th, Coun. Rawlins; 22nd, Prest. Whipple.
Each ward was favorably reported.
Prest. Horne expressed herself as being
pleased with the reports given, spoke upon
the present stringency. Gave good advice
to those present in regard to keeping out of
debt and patronizing home industries,
especially the Woman’s Store. Said presi-
dents of the Relief Society should use their
influence in sustaining this and all other
institutions of the Latter-day Saints, thatwe may be able to build up Zion. Spoke of
the importance of storing up grain against
a time of want, and dwelt at some length
upon the various duties devolving upon
us. Sang, “Doxology,’’ benediction by
Elizabeth Pixton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Opened by sing-
ing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
Prophet.” Prayer by M. W. Wilcox,
singing “Redeemer of Israel” etc. Sister
Elizabeth Pixton spoke upon the subject of
duty. We should perform those duties
that came in our way and that our hearts
admonished us to do, and not wait to have
them pointed out to us, urged us to open
our hearts and hands to the poor, and to be
diligent in the performance of every duty.
	Mesdames Webb, Stevenson, Wilcox,
Clawson, Cutler, Gibson and Silcock, all
made interesting remarks, bearing their
testimony to the truth of the gospel and
dwelling principally upon the present
situation and of our duties to the poor,
spoke of their labors in the Temple and of
the beautiful spirit and influence that pre-
vailed there.
	Sister Mary A. Freeze urged upon us the
importance of keeping the “word of wis-
dom,” in taking care of our bodies that we
may be prepared for future usefulness, also
spoke of her work in the temple, and of
the necessity of working for our dead
friends.
	Sister Emma Woodruff gave a very in-
teresting description of her trip East with
the Presidency and choir; spoke of the
kind spirit in which they were received at
Independence, contrasted the present time
with the time when they were driven from
that place. President Horne followed with
instructive remarks dwelling principally
upon our duties to the poor and upon the
evils of fault-finding, and spoke of the
duties devolving upon us as wives and
mothers, and as Latter-day Saints.
Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, “Lord dismiss us with
thy blessing,” etc. Benediction by Emily
Stevenson.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Acting Sec.


