MARY ANN FRANTZEN, Sec.


[Column 1]
     HUNTSVILLE WEBER CO.
	Minutes of a meeting of the Relief Society
of Huntsville Ward, held August 24th,
1892.
	There were present on the stand Apostle
F.D. Richards, Bishop David Mckay,
President Zina D. H. Young, her counselors
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith;   Jane S.
Richards; Ward President Eliza A. Tracy,
with her Counselors; Stake Secretary,
Mattie Cannon, and others.
	The object of the meeting being to re-
ceive instruction and to lay the corner stone
of a Hall for the Relief Society of this
Ward, to hold its meetings and transact its
business in.
	President Tracy called the meeting to
order when Bishop Mckay offered prayer.
	After stating the object of the meeting
President Tracy requested Sister Jane S.
Richards to address the meeting, who ex-
pressed her great pleasure at meeting with
the Saints on so interesting and important
an occasion as the laying of the corner
stone of a building for the use and benefit
of the ladies who constitute the Relief

[Column 2]
Society of Huntsville Ward. She ex-
pressed her gratification at observing a
spirit of progress that appeared to actuate
the Saints of this place, and congratulated
the Society upon their prospect of a house
in which to work, transact their business,
and hold their meetings. She also urged
the importance of carefully maintaining
united efforts, and referred to some of the
magnificent results that had already been
accomplished thereby.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said this was
her first visit to this ward, and felt very 
much pleased at the present opportunity to
make the acquaintance of her Sisters here.
Remarked how little we realized when the
Prophet Joseph first organized the Society
in Nauvoo, the vast importance which
these associations would attain to, but
time and experience has proven that God
works with His daughters, and they are
doing a great work in the midst of Israel.
	President Zina D. H. Young desired the
Spirit to guide her on this important oc-
casion. Joseph Smith said, early after the
first organization, while addressing the
Relief Society in April 1842, “You will
receive instructions through the order of
the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed, to
lead, guide and direct the affairs of the
Church in this last dispensation; and I now
turn the key in your behalf in the name of
the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice and
knowledge and intelligence shall flow down
from this time henceforth; this is the begin-
ning of better days to the poor and needy,
who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth
blessings on your heads.” Let me say to
all who look upon these associations as idle
gossip, I bear my testimony before you that
God is with his daughters; and to you my
dear brethren, be interested, for there is a
great blessing in this work. Assist the
sisters in their work of righteousness and
their blessings will all be shared by you,
and they will be encouraged to press for-
ward in their good work, and labor of love
to the needy.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said: we must
keep in mind that we are engaged in the
Lord's work. The 25,000 members of the
Relief Society in the Church are doing an
indescribable amount of good in their
various wards. Their Bishops realize their
mighty help, as well as the needy who re-
ceive their kindly aid. All this is part and
parcel of the work of the Lord. The
Presidency in their late visit to the Society
in Ogden expressed their approval of the
societies erecting houses in which to meet,
instruct each other and their daughters in
all things pertaining to life and health that
human suffering may be diminished and a
greater longevity attained,as well as do their
current business and perform their works
of charity. He extended his remarks con-
cerning the duty of the Society, and the
necessity of a house for them to occupy,
and expressed his pleasure at the earnest-
ness with which the people here had un-
dertaken this work. We must persevere
and progress or the work of God will
advance and leave us behind.
	Sister Richards spoke furthur of the
house, and was happy to hear of the inter-
est felt by the young ladies of the Improve-
ment Association in helping their mothers
of the Relief Society, to accomplish its
erection. Said they would live to see the
day when they would praise the Lord for
the course they had taken.
	Bishop McKay and others addressed


meeting with remarks appropriate and im-
portant to the occasion; when the people
repaired to a lot on a block west of the
Tabernacle, where the new building is to
be erected, and where master mason L. M.
Christiansen had all things ready for the
ceremony.
	After Singing and prayer an enclosure,
containing a record of the Society’s work
from its commencement, with names of its
officers and of the Bishopric, No. 5 of
Deseret News, Juvenile Instructor, WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT and Young Woman’s
Journal, was deposited.
	When the authorities present proceeded
to place the South East Corner Stone of
the Rellef Society’s Hall of Huntsville
Ward in position, and declared it was now
laid. The blessing of God was invoked
upon all who shall assist in its erection and
that the way may speedily be opened
whereby the necessary means may be ob-
tained for its accomplishment, which was
responded to with a hearty Amen.
	President Zina D. H. Young and Coun-
selor Bathsheba W. Smith spoke in a very
loving, kind, and energetic manner, feel-
ing fully assured the sisters would never
regret the noble effort they were now mak-
ing to obtain a house of their own.
	Several persons present donated various
sums of money towards the erection of the
building, and the interesting proceedings
were concluded with pleasure and gratitude
that will long be remembered by the good
people of Huntsville, and their visitors
present.
				 ELIZA A. TRACY, President. 
				EMMA BURROWS, Secretary.


