MEXICAN ITEMS.

	WELL it has been raining very hard for a
long time, yes, at timesalmost pouring and
I suppose that on account of my long
silence that my friends thought I had
been drowned or been washed away by
the turbulent streams, but on the con-
trary, I have been quite safe, and busy
studying my lesson,‘well,” some one might
ask, “what have you learned?” “Well I
have learned to a certain extent, so far as
my weak nature is able to comprehend, to
trust in God, and it is the sweetest and
dearest lesson that I have ever learned.
Perhaps some of our dear brethren and
sisters in more favored and civilized places
wonder it our Father in Heaven would
stoop to care for these poor exiles in this
far off land, but it is so, and here in this
place I have learned the sweetest lessons
that the Gospel has ever taught us.  Here
under a lonely roof I have had an op-
portunity of peeping into the lives of
of some of the chosen servants of God,
for instance Nephi one of the forefathers of
this race by whom we are surrounded,
he learned to suffer and put his trust in
God, he was taken through the soul refining

[Column 2]
experience of having to leave friends,
home, riches, and all that he possesed for
the knowledge that he had of his doing the
will of Heaven, and after having made
those sacrifices was called to run the risk of
his own life, and commit a deed that his
own soul revolted against, knowing that he
was doing his duty.  It must have taken a   
great deal of faith on his part, he being a
tender hearted man to raise enough courage
to cut off Laban’s head. Then afterwards
in traveling with his brethren he was con-
stantly blamed for believing that he was
doing right, and his sorrows were great and
his life in danger constantly, on account of
the unbelief of his own brethren, yet his
faith never wavered, but was always firm,
and he said, 11 Nephi 4—24, “O, Lord I
have trusted in thee, I will trust in thee
forever, I will not put my trust in the arm
of flesh; for I know that cursed is he that
putteth his trust in the arm of flesh.  Yea,
cursed is he who putteth his trust in man,
or maketh flesh his arm.”
	His soul was continually poured out in
humble prayer, in passing through affliction,
his life was a continual feast of the divine
blessings and knowledge of his Redeemer.
And such will be the lives of all those who
have come here to the remnants of his
posterity,if their trust is firm in the Lord,
if they find out his will and do it, the rain
may fall and the winds blow, but if their
house is built upon a rock, the rock of
revelation, it will stand the storm.
	God never has called any person, or set
of persons to preform a mission upon this
earth, without having taken them through
many trials, in order to purify and prepare
them for the work.  Even our Savior
withstood the temptations and wiles of
Satan,before entering upon his labor of love
among the human family, and if we read
the lives of all faithful men and women we
find that sometime in their lives they had
passed through a course of trying ordeals
and therein had learned their lesson of
faith.  Those who are determined to do
right will be chastened and tried until they
will acknowledge the hand of God in every
thing, even in their deepest sorrow thank
Him for blessings, thank him for trials, and
suffering, it will be then and only then that
we will not be tried, for if we watch closely
we will find out behind every cloud there is
