PRIMARY ANNUAL.
	The 14th, Ward Primary Association
held its annual meeting Sunday evening
Dec. 3rd 1893, under the direction of the


President Ella W. Hyde; present were the
Bishopric of the ward, Counselors Clara C.
Cannon and Camilla Cobb of the Territorial
and stake organization, parents of the
children and others. Meeting opened by 
singing “Gather them into the fold.”
Prayer by Master Fara Fox, singing
“Trust the children.”
	A very interesting program was carried
out as follows. Bessie Crismon and Ray
Workman gave a recitation entitled “Two
little welcomes.’’ Fera Fox gave a lecture
on “Prayer.” Sentiments, called Resolu-
tions were repeated in concert by the
children, conducted by Joan Campbell.
Freddie Wilcox gave a recitation entitled,
“Catching the colt.” A motion song was
given by Frankie and Georgie Young.
The articles of Faith were repeated by
Alice Cannon, Hattie Folsom and
Frankie Young. Little Roy Taylor gave a
recitation entitled “Three little cats.”
	An interesting sketch of the life of Eliza
R. Snow was read by Lyle Young, followed
with a song by Ruby Workman.
Questions and answers on the “Word of
Wisdom” was next given, questions asked
by R. M. Fox, answered by eight girls.
Vida and Lester Fox gave an original
dialogue composed by R. M. Fox. A duet
was nicely rendered by Daisy Fox and
Minnie Goss the children joining in the
chorus. Ivy Crismon gave a rectation and
Master Bertie Clive a Violin Solo. After
which interesting and encouraging re-
marks were made by Counselors, Camilla
Cobb, Clara C. Cannon and Bishop George
H. Taylor. Singing “Dare to do right.”
Benediction by Master Joseph Goss.
	On the following Friday afternoon Dec.
8th, a picnic was given to the children of
the Primary, in the basement of the 14th,
Ward Hall, when between sixty and
seventy children were present. After the
opening exercises, refreshments were served
and games engaged in by the little folks un-
til a late hour when they were dismissed,
and returned to their homes with happy
beaming faces, the officers feeling well re-
paid for their labors.
	E. W. H.


