THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTURY.
	ON the 20th of November a very success-
ful party, a sort of ovation was given to
President M. Isabella Horne by a com-
mittee of ladies’ and the officers of the
branches of the Relief Society in Salt Lake
County, it was the seventy-fifth anniver-
sary of her birthday. Mrs Horne has lived
three quarters of a century and merits by
her faithfulness and endeavors for good, in
the interests of the women of the Territory
and of the Church, the utmost honor and
appreciation of those with whom she has
labored so long and diligently.
	The party was held in the 14th, Ward
Assembly Rooms in the afternoon. The
room was decorated with flags and banners,
a handsome carpet and easy chairs in the
centre of the hall, and on the stand and
platform were beautiful flowering plants
and palms and a large century plant fresh
from the green house, besides bouquets in
vases artistically arranged, and to
Mrs. Horne it was a perfect surprise until
about noon of the day; her family however
were aware of the preparations that were


[column 1]
in progress, and of course joined with the
sisters in the celebration. The one draw-
back to the pleasure of all was the absence
of Brother Horne, who was really not well
enough to be present.
	The house was well filled with dear
friends and fellow-laborers, the First Presi-
dency of the Church seated upon the stand,
also President Lorenzo Snow, Apostle
Franklin D. Richards and Heber J. Grant,
the Presiding Bishops of the Church, Presi-
dent Angus M. Cannon, Counselor C. W.
Penrose, Bishop George H. Taylor and
some other brethren, occupied seats of hon-
or, but the company were mostly ladies.
	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor Counselor to
President M. I. Horne in the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion, presided during the
exercises and took charge of the program,
Mrs. Helen M. Whitney the other Counse-
lor was not able to attend, which was much
regretted. President Zina D. H. Young
and her Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith were in attendance,
and many other representitive women.
	Sister Taylor made a few appropriate re-
marks greeting the assembly of her friends
and congratulating Sister Horne in a grace-
ful way.
	The exercises opened with prayer by
President Joseph F. Smith, and singing “O,
my Father”.
	After which President Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the assembly. He stated
that he never felt able to express his
thoughts in words when gathered among
the Saints of God, congratulated Sister
Horne and alluded to the many pleasant
associations with both Brother and Sister
Horne; “when he looked upon this assembly
especially the aged, he was glad some of
the Saints had lived to carry out the work,
while others had passed behind the vail, no
more interesting generation could have
been or ever had been; no greater dispen-
sation in fact than this one has ever been,
we have great blessings,’’again congratula-
ted Sister Horne on this day, her labors
had been great, while he said this of her,
he said it of others, the gathering called
to his mind the Prophet Joseph and Hyrum
and Brigham and John Taylor; referred to
his labors with them, and the coming of
the pioneers into this valley, recalled the
words of President Young when he came
into the valley, here he said we shall build
a Temple in Zion, said God bless Sister
Horne and her husband; and her children
will follow in their footsteps, thanked the
Lord that a mighty army of people, sons
and daughters was being raised up through
the principles of the order of God, blest the
assembly etc., the remarks of the President
were especially inspiring to all assembled
and will ever be treasured to encourage
those who are laboring in the Relief Society
in which he has always manifested the
deepest interest.
	President Zina D. H. Young after ad-
dressing herself to the First Presidency up-
on the stand and the President of the
meeting, heartily congratulated Sister
Horne, and rejoiced with her in the many
blessings the sisters had enjoyed; referred
to the day when Joseph the Prophet was
taken from us as the darkest day we had
ever seen, but while he was with the
people he had poured out blessings upon
blessings, revealed many things, turned the
key of knowledge, and opened up the
channel of communication with the hea-
vens. Sister Young was thankful to see so

[column 2]
many familiar faces, those who were en-
gaged in labors of love.
	President George Q. Cannon, appreciated
this opportunity very much, thought how-
delightful it would be if all our aged
brethren and sisters could have their birth-
days remembered, spoke of the hall as a
historic building, where many social parties
and reunions had been given; since coming
into the room many memories had crowded
into his mind,'some were pleasant others
were sorrowful, he had danced there more
than once and would like to again, if there
was an opportunity, Sister Horne he re-
membered used to be a very good dancer
and was now probably did not think she
had lost it all, thought our people did not
grow old as fast as some others, and re-
ferred to President Woodruff, Sister Horne
and President Snow, who seemed so young
and well-preserved. Alluded to his boy-
hood and association with Brother and
Sister Horne when they came to the valley
together also President Taylor’s family the
intimacy that existed between the two
families and gave some interesting incidents
of experience in those times; quoted Heber
C. Kimball’s remark concerning respect for
the aged when he said the Lord had more
respect for us than we had for one another,
the Lord had said “My aged servant
Joseph Smith,” (meaning Joseph Smith Sen.
father of the Prophet.) President Cannon
then commented upon the wonderful strides
the sisters had made the last few years,
bringing them forward before the public,
into spheres of usefulness, that opened be-
fore them, he then turned and address-
ing President Woodruff, said, it was one
of the things that impressed him very
greatly, he was pleased to see Sister Horne
take a leading part, an active part side by side
with others in this grand movement for the
elevation and enfranchisement of her sex,
was thankful she had lived to take so
prominent a part in the work for women,
“but you are His servants though you may
not bear the priesthood as we do, and yet
your spheres are enlarged and there is no
limit to your advancement,” felt to bless
Sister Horne whose birthday anniversary
we were celebrating, her husband and their
posterity, Brother Horne was a man faith-
ful and true and God would bless them and
their posterity after them.


