AUTUMN.

How beautiful the passing days,
	That quickly hurry by;
Whose life breathes out unclouded rays,
	Then gloriously they die.


The ash and stately poplar trees,
	Seem filled with yellow light
That nodded in the summer breeze,
	So dark and dense a sight.
The sun comes sparkling on his way,'
	Unmindful of his charm
The grass is rustling, Stiff and gray,
	To steps that tread nor harm.
Unsheltered flowers hang their heads,
	O'er bent and blackened stems,
That humbly droop towards their beds,
	'Fore sunshine that condemns.
In sympathy the sun imparts,
	A warm and healing breath,
To bind their little broken hearts,
	Which only hastens deaths
The ivy trails the old rail fence,
	Enlivened here and there
With red and yellow leaves from whence
	Shine purple berries rare.
The bright-eyed squirrel seeks his store,
	Of nuts that fallen lie;
Then speeds away the branches o’er,
	As if by winds blown by. 
The beauty of the leaves is brief,
	And by some magic spell,
When morning sparkles white, each leaf
	Seems earthward to have fell
Flowers fall with the germ of life.
	Unaided and forlorn,
To rise again like human lives,
	In spring-times’ early morn.
O death, life's most relentless foe,
	Withold thy cuel breath;
Nor bring earth's fairest ones to woe,
	Slay not, O bitter death. 
HYACINTH
Nov. 3, 1893.

[Column 2]
much to say of what would be likely to
transpire and the extravagance and style
which would be kept up, but as no one of
the party was interested in his views, he
grew silent and inclined to be morose
somewhat, and was not an agreeable com-
panion.
	On board the vessel were two or three
ministers, dissenters as they were designated
in those days, and Dr. Bland entered into
conversation with them on the first day out
and thoroughly investigated their religious
faith. They with some of their followers
were fleeing from the persecution heaped
upon them in their own native land, and
preferred hardships and privation in the
wilderness to the scorn ridicule and op-
probium of those among whom their lot
was cast in their own country.  Still they
talked much of the home they were leaving,
and the green fields so dear to every
English heart village-born, but above all
was the desire to exercise the freedom of 
conscience and religious views—for this
they sacrificed home, friends and the graves,
of their ancestors, not knowing what fate
had in store for them in an unknown
country.
	The ladies were too sea-sick after being a
few hours out of the sight of land to enjoy 
anything, and young Walton, who had lit-
tle courage at any time was quite as help-
less as his wife, so that what had seemed a
pleasant undertaking on the first day, was a
miserable failure before many hours had
passed.  Dr. Bland and one or two of the 
servants managed to take care of the rest of
the party, and the Doctor kept up his
interest in the Puritans on board, though
he could scarcely hold with the extreme
views entertained by them, being a man of
very broad mind and liberal education.
	One young and ardent disciple of the
faith Barrington by name became greatly
attached to the Doctor and his party and
was ever after a friend to the two families.
He sought by his persuasive eloquence and 
kindlinessto help Lord Walton morally and
to uplift him from the despondency which
had fallen upon him after leaving the shores
of England, and partly perhaps in conse-
quence of sea sickness, and the peculiar
combination of circumstances, that had
brought about his consent to take this
journey.  His influence was good upon
Maitland though not permanent.  In fact
so devoted was young Barrington that his
friend sometimes distrusted his motives
and fancied he was in love with his wife.
He had explained to her the need of re-
ligion and every day after she was
convalescent read passages from the Bible
commenting upon them, and she listened
dreamily to it all, as though she was half
distrustful it was not real but another de-
ception.
	Finally without any serious happenings
the company landed on the New England
coast, and having arranged beforehand
with British residents, were warmly
welcomed and soon comfortably established
in dwellings previously fitted up befitting
their station in life  All was strange and 
there were none with whom they had ever


