IN RURAL ENGLAND.
XXXIV.
	IN leaving one’s ancestral home there
must be many peculiar feelings, especially
when it is severing such ties forever, as in
the case of Lady Anna Walton nee Hilliard.
Although at the time of her marriage she
cared little for the old castle, afterwards
her whole being (as it were) had undergone
an entire change. Now when about to
leave it forever she felt keenly how happy
she might have been there had she only 
known the lessons she had more recently 
learned.  But these experiences only came
with the years that roll on forever in quick
succession, and youth and hope were
sanguine in her heart at the time of her
marriage and the ideal picture of love and
happiness, were the allurement that shut out
for the time the realities of life, and made
her forgetful of the happiness she might
have made for herself after her cousin Jane
was installed in the castle as chief in all
departments under her father.  She rebelled
in her heart against everything except
what ministered to her own selfishness in
the affairs of love, and seemed to realize no
home duty or obligation.
	In speaking to her cousin one day at the
old home, she remarked, “should I ever
have a daughter how different her training 
and discipline shall be to what mine was,
drilled almost in deception by those under
whose tutelage I grew up without anything
real, taught to look upon all authority as
hardship, petted and scolded, never  in-
structed in anything useful or elevating,
not even moral lessons given me until you
came my dear cousin to open my eyes to a
new world of thought and activity, and
then it was too late, I was so deeply in love
with Maitland, that I was willing to risk
all, and give up home and friends for his
society alone. How have I been repaid,
but now away from England with all its
temptations, in a new land we shall surely
enjoy that sweet tranquility and home hap-
piness for which I have so constantly
yearned.  Never having known a mother's 
love, nor that of a sister or brother while
a child until Clair came,how could I under-
stand what others knew and enjoyed.”
	Her cousin replied “My dear Anna do
not dwell upon these sombre facts, let us
forget all that  is gloomy and harrowing in
the past, and look to the future for better
things than we have known heretofore, al-
though I must not repine or murmur even
of the past, for my early home life was
very happy and indeed when I came to my
uncle Edward’s everything was so new and
remarkable that looking back upon it now,
it is like a fairy tale, and I cannot but
realize the wonderful lessons I learned of
human nature in its various phases, out of
the real book of life, and these incidents
and experiences will help me to improve
myself, and make me wiser and more help-
ful to others than I could have been had I
not been brought in contact with so many
practical and puzzling enigmas.”
	“Seriously cousin Jane do you think we
shall ever come back here, and visit these 
old, dear  old places again?"
	“If Clair does not come to America and
settle you might perhaps visit him here if
things prosper and he improves this property,
but if he is gay and reckless and neglect-
ful of the responsibility and the title he bears,
there is not money enough to keep the 
estate unembarrassed and he may lose it, in
that case what disposal would be made of
the old castle and grounds would be difficult
to tell,” was the reply of the sagacious
cousin.
	“Clair is in good hands now, cousin
Jane” said Lady Anna “Uncle Rob will
educate him in habits of life that will be
beneficial in the management of the old
ruin as well as himself, and Clair is the
dearest, good-natured boy, so fond of music
and of everything beautiful, and Uncle
Rob is the best friend to us all isn’t that so?
You know how fond he was of you, I am
sure if you had not been engaged to the
Doctor, he would have made a formal offer,
of his heart and hand, but that’s all past
and Uncle Rob will never marry he told me
so, besides he is getting old, his hair is
turning grey; but you have never a word
to say about him since he left, nor do you
ask a question of me concerning their
travels though I’m sure you must be in-
terested.’’
	During this long colloquy Mrs. Bland
had been perfectly self-possessed, but at
the mention of the name of Rob Harrison
a cold tremor thrilled through her frame
and she could scarcely stand, she remained
silent not knowing scarcely herself the 
cause of her discomposure, but for the first
time for months she recalled the dream
of the great forest, the sea, and the ship
coming in, which had so impressed her at
the time; and she regretted that her cousin
shoudl have called up Uncle Rob, just as
they were trying to  be cheerful and shut 
out from memory all the former scenes and
occurences that would aggrivate and de-
press them when saying their last goodbye
to the land of their nativity.


﻿	The preparations were hurriedly made for
leaving England by Dr. Bland and young
Lord Walton, but they were also carefully
arranged, and when at last they departed
with their families and belongings, there was
nothing particularly affecting; they had no
near relatives to mourn only the old servants
and retainers, who begged them not to go
and leave their homes to strangers; lady
Anna assured the faithful old people who
were in charge of Hilliard castle that her
brother Clair would be a kind master if they
served him faithfully, and gave some
instructions about keeping everything in
good order ’till his return which she assured
them would be very soon.
	Lady Walton the mother had written
Maitland and Anna wishing them “bon
voyage” and enjoining upon them the
remembrance that baby Edward was the
future heir to the title and estates of the
Waltons. She expressed no regrets through
she knew the mighty ocean would lie be-
tween her and her only son, who had been
the pride of her life and for whom she had
made many sacrifices.
	The excitement consequent upon leaving
home and the journey in a lumbering old
coach, was almost too much for Lady Anna
whose nervous condition was always
delicate, and the least unusual strain pros-
trated her and gave her hysterical
symptoms. Mrs. Bland had serious fears
about the sea-voyage, but having made
such determined efforts to go and sacrificed
much in leaving, there seemed no alterna-
tive but to persevere and make the best of
whatever circumstances interposed; she
knew too that her cousin would not consent
to return even were it practicable, and in
fact on some accounts it would be almost
impossible.
	Arriving at Ipswich they had a few days
to rest and recruit before going on board
and Lady Anna recuperated considerably
which gave her friends fresh courage.
	While at the seashore, Lady Anna
had time to moralize and take a restrospec-
tive view of her life; she had an inmate
reverence for things that were pure and true
and utter abhorence of evil and impurity
in fact the divinely maternal nature was
strongly and delicately developed; and now
in her more real and mature,actual life, she
looked back with a sort of horror upon the
unconscious mistakes she had made through
injudicious training, and she prayed
fervently to know what would be the
wisest and best course to pursue in the
future; for she realized a new era was
beginning for her in which material changes
might be made, that would prove elevating
to herself and her husband, as well as her
child; these ideas and thoughts she impart-
ed to her cousin in whom she felt the most
implicit confidence; and they talked to-
gether of the mode of'worship in which
both of them had been reared, though in
fact Lady Anna had no religion, (except
such as her own heart dictated) but with
Jane Bland it was different, she was a
clergyman’s daughter and knew the ritual
perfectly and all the outward forms and
ceremonies of the Church of England; she
believed in the theory as taught, but she
was not bigoted nor was she prejudiced
against other forms or principles of religious
doctrine, and had met and conversed with
dissenters whose zeal and enthusiasm she
greatly admired. Her husband the good
doctor believed in freedom of speech, and
of thought, and was vigorously opposed
to the persecution of those who differed

[Column 2]
from the established Church of his native
country. In conversing with him Mrs.
Bland had gained many new ideas, and
much general information, in regard to the
views and opinions of the class of people
called Puritans. She was not prepared to
state positively to her cousin Anna her
sentiments on the subject of religious
belief, but said to her inadvertently on one
occasion, “we are going to sail with some
of those radical Puritans; there was no
other vessel leaving in which we could get
passage.” Lady Anna was amazed,
“Why cousin Jane I have heard they are
opposed to aristocracy, they are for
equality, and hate the British government,
have no respect for rulers and believe in
having all things common.” “My dear
cousin do not be alarmed my husband
knows some of those men well, and he
says they are honorable, honest and up-
right, worthy citizens, and brave in facing
danger or even death for their religious
belief; such characteristics must necessarily
be noble.”
	“Cousin Jane I rely upon your judg-
ment more than my own, your husband
may not have the same prejudices against
the common people that Maitland has, who
is as you know a patrician born and bred,
and though I confess the Doctor to be more
truly noble in character, yet the fact still
remains; you understand me cousin, I do
not mean to offend, pardon me if I am
wrong, tell me cousin, for we are of one
lineage you and I, but we are women and
our natures are more susceptible to good-
ness and to purity, and I have learned dur-
ing the last few months such bitter lessons
of men’s arrogance and harshness towards
those ignobly born.”
	“I scarcely know what to answer, but
this, that true merit must always be my
standard of excellence as I doubt not it is
yours, and though you are several years
younger, yet you have seen enough of
‘polite society’ to convince you of the
shallowness of its forms and the insincerity
of its votaries; you grew weary of it in one
short London season, and I who am natur-
rally a sort of prude,could not countenance
even the little glimpses I had of the
‘upper ten,’ at Hilliard castle, even though
on my mother’s side I am descended
through the race from which Earls and
Barons have sprung. My father as you
know was only a poor clergyman and my
mother ignored because of her marriage
with one beneath her in rank, and I am a
Conway at heart, although uncle Edward
would insist I had the Hilliard
characteristics.’’
	“You have not answered me, satisfactorily
cousin Jane, but this I know that where we
are going titles will be of small con-
sequence, and indeed unless one has some
office under the government, we are all
commoners, and Maitland’s pride will be
terribly mortified should he be only Mr.
Walton instead of Lord Walton, as for the
Doctor his title would be the same in all
lands; and you are too wholly unselfish
ever to think of these insignificant things
that puzzle your frivolous cousin. You
have so much within yourself, and I want
some one strong and wise to lean upon, if
I only had a faith that would be sufficient
for my daily needs, as good old Angelina
used to tell me, I would not have these sad
misgivings, and doubts that seem to haunt
me now almost constantly.”
	"I am glad cousin that you remember
Angelina’s teachings, she was a Saint in

[Column 3]
very deed and told me on her death bed of
your mother’s history; things we had never
known, and some day when we are alone
and I have time I will repeat it to you;
you have her temperament,but your life has
been so different” “my mother’s history I
thought no one knew it except uncle Rob
and he would never talk of her only to
declare “she was an angel.”


