ST. JOHN.
	IN reading our interesting little paper the
EXPONENT we often see the reports from
other places but seldom anything from St.
John’s, Arizona and as our Relief Society
was reorganized on the 4th of March, we
thought it proper to report the same.
Sister Lucinda Richey was our esteemed
president for. thirteen years but being in
poor health and advanced in years felt it
too great a responsibility and therefore
tendered her resignation. She was loved
for her kind and loving manner and
motherly counsel. Her life has been one of
usefulness having raised a large family
living mostly on the frontier, and passing
through many trials incident to such a
life. The following were chosen officers
Anna D. Kempe President, Claudina Jen-
sen and Elizabeth N. Gibbons, Counselors
R. E. Berry Secretary, Christina Johnson
Asst. Sec. Hannah Jensen Treasurer,
Anna L. Anderson Ass’t. Our meetings
are held regularly and fairly well attended.
We hold meetings every other Thursday
our testimony meetings on fast days. We
have fifty four members own real estate
worth $2,740. also $109.60 in property and
$350 cash.
	The people here are feeling much en-
couraged this year as we have been blessed
with rains and the gardens and young
orchards look thrifty as does also the fields
where crops were planted. Some did not
plant as we have suffered greatly from
drouth and grasshoppers the past three
years but we have neither to complain of
this year.	E. R. BERRY, Sec.


“THERE is something appalling in the
revelations of the census; the condition of
the marriage relation alone would preclude
happiness. Think of from forty to fifty
thousand immoral women in New York
patronized by five times that number of
men; think of 328,716 divorces in twenty
years! The hundreds of thousands of
homes ruined by drink, with 82,392 crimi-
nals in prison, and an annual production of
homicides amounting to 7, 386. Besides
73,045 paupers in almshouses and a million
tramps, vagabonds and pensioners of all
sorts scattered far and wide. One of the
most serious signs of decay is found in the
increase of insanity. Years ago it was
found that society was “dying at the top,”
and it was computed that one in 250 of the
population were insane, but now the num-
ber has been put at one in 127. New York
City today has one in 300 in her asylums,
and the city is full of persons of unsound
mind, rendering it probable that the esti-
mate of one in 127 in the country at large
is correct.”—Dr. De Costa.


