	O'er spread the earth with lucent light,
Radiant stars made all around
	Emit the rays of diamonds bright.
The air was cold, and sharp, and keen,
	And glistened with its silver sheen!
The snow was crisp, and fairly creaked
	Beneath the many moving feet.
The streets were thronged with grave and gay,
	The rich and poor together there,
The sunny-haired, the head of grey,
	Alike the brilliant scene did share.
	For art her beauties well displayed.
With charms enhanced by nature's aid;
	The peasant with his elbows bare
Jostling near the millionaire.
To watch the faces of the crowd
	Was study for an artist’s pen—
With voice subdued, or accent loud,
	Of children small, or stalwart men,
All pushing, crowding, struggling by—
	With gladsome laugh, or stifling sigh—
Each pressing on to reach some goal
	As haven for the anxious soul.
How beat these human hearts tonight?
	When every one should feel good cheer,
Do all bid sorrow take its flight?
	And throw aside each doubt and fear,
Or, are there some amid the throng
	Whose pleasures never tarry long?
Who, even at this Christmas tide,
	Have food, and warmth, and love denied?
Hark! list! we hear the tinkling bells
	Of Santa Claus upon the road!
What winsome joys their music tells!
	But pause—suppose we jump aboard
And take a little trip around,
	And with him see what can be found;
To view the world in varying phase,
	As seen by Santa's generous gaze.
We see the stately tow'ring walls
	Of wealthy homes on every hand,
Where festive music fills the halls,
	And luxury is at command:
Where Christmas bring increased delight
	Wlth all that tempts the taste and sight
Friends fondly vieing to impart
	The greatest joys to otheer hears.
In all their lives they've never known
	The dreaded pangs of cold or want,
Stranger to the sufferers groan,
	And poverty so grim and gaunt,
Then how should they be thought to know

[Column 2]
	The tithe of pain and want and woe,
That those less fortunate than they
	Are doomed to feel by night and day.
They see that Santa’s well supplied
	With varied and ample store;
Their darlings must not be denied,
	Their stockings must be brimming o,er
With all that youthful hearts could ask.
	Sure Santa's is a pleasing task!
With lavish hand they freely give
	When gifts are needed not to live.
Kind Santa Claus' unselfish heart
	Would fain be just and true to all.
He'd gifts alike to all impart—
	To rich and poor, to great and small.
But he is but an agent here
	To visit little children dear,
To give what others have decreed;
	Which often seems unjust indeed.
And this is why this Christmas-eve
	The lowly homes and hovels bare
Such poor and scanty gifts receive,
	And have so little love and care,
Why little children vainly sigh—
	When Merry Christmas, time draws nigh
To have their stockings brimming o’er
	With sweetmeats, and with gifts a score. 
O! could we but invest with power
	The Santa Claus of every home—
That henceforth from this very hour—
	In justice to each home to come;
That ev’ry little fluttering heart
	Might feel it had its ample part,
Nor wonder why the girls and boys
	Of other homes should have more toys.
As echoes by a master woke
	Reverberate in sweetest time,
Oh! Father ope with one great stroke
	The spring of human love sublime.
Oh make us feel as thou didst, when
	Thou gavest thy son to die for men;
That we may celebrate His birth
	With peace, good will, to all on earth.
