TO THE SISTERS.

	OUR Conference is now numbered with
past blessings; how gratifying it would
have been for all the Saints to have par-
taken of the precious instruction we re-
ceived; but believing all prayerful saints
will receive a portion of the same spirit
that will strengthen comfort and encourage
them in every circumstance and in all trials
is a great consolation to me, the instruc-
tion from our brethren to all that would
favor Zion and that the key was turned in
favor of Zion, the thinning of the curtain
that has separated from us the far off bless-
ings.
	In the Sisters’ Conference President F. D.
Richards instruction was precious; assur-
ances for us to continue in our labors as we
have ever done in our society in all its
branches; it would have cheered every
heart to have heard it, and I trust it will
for God surely gave the pattern and all
will prosper if we are humble and faithful
to our duties, to be sure that the needy do not
suffer, Heavenly mission; that we may
meet our Father’s approval, and if great
wisdom be used in our words to cheer, and
with our deeds of kindness, that all may
have the spirit of gratitude to God for our
many blessings and I pray that they may
fill the soul of every sister that we may ad-
vance in good works and that we may be
strong and united.
	We three sisters, myself and my Counse-
lors, Sisters Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba
W. Smith are one in desiring God’s special
blessings upon our sisters, yes all, but
especially those who have so nobly labored
in the Relief Society. It was very much
regretted by me that Sister Richards had to
be absent from our Conference on account
of ill health (but trust she will soon re-
cover) as it was suggested in her absence,
that the President of each Stake organiza-
tion of the Relief Society would act as aids
for us to call upon; (I have said I, but we
three are the only ones that I wish to con-
vey in meaning) that we all may be blest
spiritually and temporally.


Take the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, 
we three as one with the Presidents of
Stakes, read and study the Lectures on
Faith, and that the Presidents of Stakes
would take it as a mission to ask all local
Presidents to have these lectures read in
their meetings that we may understand
alike, and mothers be able to instruct the
children and converse with the Primary and
Sunday School children to make it truly
profitable.
	My sisters this needs no comment,
that when we rest from our labors our
works will follow us in the hands of our
children. Let us be wise, humble, peace-
ful and prudent, not distrusting God’s
Providence and all will be well.
Oct. 15, 1893.				Z. D. H. Y.


To all our sisters throughout the world.
Since writing the above I can surely recom-
mend having the Book of Doctrine and
Covenants especially the lectures on Faith,
read by all the sisters, as in the Temple all
that work there meet, read and discuss these
lovely and eternal truths that edify and
satisfy the reasoning soul. We do not say
go and do, but come let us be strong, we
do not forget while in that precious place,
the absent and tried; the lectures are read
and questions every week, if there is a
power in reason that removes doubt and
gives assurance I have been fully assured,
for when the thought came tome it had not
been tried by the sisters in the Temple. I
trust that every Stake President will com-
ply and not delay in making it a request
and eveu if read at home, have some one
read it when together, you will have a por- 
tion of the same spirt by which we are
edified in the Temple, by faith and prayer
nothing doubting we shall see eye to eye,
having assure foundation. Our Sabbath
School children can be more strengthened
at home by their intelligent mothers, who
may be weary with toil, but by a little
management the reading can be a pleasant
home entertainment; we all should be
familiar with these lectures that we may res-
pect the Great Giver of these blessings and
the Prophet of the living God who has
laid down his life for the truth’s sake.
					ZINA D. H. YOUNG.
Dec. 5, 1893.


