shut out every ray of light, of comfort.
Not one single glimmer pierced the black-
ness of the louds that were fast closing
about her. Vain were my attempts at
cousolation. Vain were the bright pictures
of a happy future with her babe. She
would only repeat in a weary despondent 
voice that spoke of bitter unshed tears. 

[Column 3]
	"You are very kind, dear friend and
mean well, but you do not understand. I
cannot tell you why or how but I know
life is over for me; and I am so tired, so tired,
that I am glad of it."
	As her husband entered the room he
laughed scornfully at her tears. For once
she made no effort to hide her grief. What
need? Had he not long since stripped the
veil from their miserable existance reveal-
ing the hollow shame in all its hideousness?
Neither did she offer any explanation when
he, coarsely and with assumed ignorance,
demanded the cause of her grief; not from
any definite reason but simply from a kind
of instinct that makes the sympathetic,
sensitive nature shrink from unfolding itself
to the touch of one that it feels is neither-
because her inmost being felt that he would
hear it with an antagonism that would jar
every fibre. There are so many ways of
letting the life out of a woman's heart
already faint from disappointment; and
for some moments he tried with a drunken
man's persistence to see how far his taunts
and sneers would exasperate the woman
whom he had promised to love, honor and
cherish; her continued silence only made
him angrier and he became for the time a
maniac. The face he turned round upon
her, the eyes blazing with wrath, the
cheeks pale with passion, the lips set was a
fearful face as he staggered to where his
wife stood; and placing both hands on her
shoulders he shook her roughly as he hissed
into her trembling ear these brutal words-
"You're a nice wife for a man to have!
always going around with a long, white
face to make people think you're an abused
woman. Bah! I tell you what it is Alice,
I'm just about sick of your whining and
crying and don't want any more of it.
Do you hear? I shall stay out just as late
as I want to and just as often; so you may
as well make the best of it. Why, there
were at least sixty men at the club to night; 
most of them married, and do you think
their wives sat up and met them with tears
and long faces? No, by—! and from
now, on, I want no more of it. Remember
that, will you?" And with another final
and emphatic shake he pushed her roughly
from him. Too much intoxicated to fully
realize what he was doing he was not aware
of the brutal force he used and neither of
them observing a footstool that stood near,
Alice fell over it striking her head heavily
against a chair before reaching the floor,
murmuring faintly, "Oh Charlie how could
you, when I loved you so?" She sank in-
to unconciousness. They were the last
words she ever spoke. For days she re-
mained unconscious and then the end came.
Never shall I forget the expression of
peaceful content that settled on the beauti-
ful face. Surely she had found rest and
the peace that passeth all understanding.
Of course, Charlie was very penitent and
apparently remorse—stricken for a time;
but yesterday I read in an eastern paper
that Charlie M. or as he was more familiar-
ly known ‘‘Bonnie Prince Charlie” was
about to lead to the Altar the beautiful
daughter of one of New York's richest
men. I wonder if Alice knows—or cares.
	S.E. L.


THE Isle of Man legislature has just en-
acted that duly qualified women shall, in
future, vote for the election to the House
of Keys, thus following, on more limited
lines, the example of New Zealand.


