IN MEMORIAM.

Editor Exponent:
	IT is with regret we have to announce the
death of one of our number. So sudden and
unexpectedly Sister Sarah P. Crosby died at
her home in Panguitch Garfield Co. Utah on
Nov. 13th 1893 of pneumonia after a severe ill-
ness of three days.
	Deceased was born in Iowa Sep. 20th, 1848; was
the daughter of Lorenzo and Beulah Clark and
wife of Jesse W. Crosby Jr. was the mother of
ten children, two of whom passed away in infancy.
Her husband, five children with many relatives
and friends surrounded her death bed powerless
to render any relief. Three absent sons arrived
soon after.
	Sister Sarah has been an active worker in the
Relief Society, holding the office of Counselor to
our Stake President, Sister Barbara Myers, since
its organization on June 5th, 1878, has also acted
as Stake Secretary until our last Conference, Aug.
31st, when she was released from that position by
her own request, feeling it too much responsibility.
Although very feeble in health the past year her
energies seemed doubly increased in her public
labors. In nll our associations she will be greatly
missed whether public or private; she was a 
regular attendant at all meetings, and we know
all is well with her.
	Rest in peace dear sister,
		Your work is nobly done,
	Life's battle has been fought
		Eternal peace well wom.
	Although we miss you sadly,
		Since your parting gave us pain,
	We are reconciled in knowing
		Our loss is Heaven's gain.
BARBARA MYERS, Prest.
H. A. CROSBY, Cor. Sec.


MEN like women to reflect them, no
doubt; but the woman who can only re-
flect a man, and is nothing in herself, will
never be of much service to him. The
woman who cannot stand alone is not likely
to make either a good wife or mother.—
George Macdonald.


ERRATA:—In an article entitled (Mesa
Items) I am represented as saying, that the
Relief Society Hall, cost $150.00 instead
of $1,500,00 (one thousand, five hundred
dollars) which makes a slight difference in
the cost, I fear there would not have been
much of a building per 150.
			Yours truly,
