EQUAL SUFFRAGE.
	
[To the Utah W.'S. A. in Convention
assembled.]
DEAR LADIES:—
	ALTHOUGH we may not be personally ac-
quainted, yet “A fellow feeling makes us
wondrous kind,” and the lofty aims and
unity of purpose pervading the different
Suffrage Associations constitute a bond of
union between the members irrespective of
surrounding conditions.
	While it is quite probable that the present
financial crisis and consequent scarcity of
money will cause a marked decrease in the
membership roll, yet the faith in the gospel
of Equal Rights still exists, and will only
need the impetus of a special emergency
to call it into active vigorous life.
	At least  that is the status of the Manti
branch which I have the honor to represent
in the absence of a verbal report.
	Although we have an enrolled member-
ship of about two hundred, yet the num-
ber of active workers is comparatively
small consisting principally of widows
whose legal experience in the administra-
tion of their deceased husband’s estates has
opened their eyes to the unjust discrimina-
tion of laws which women have no voice in
making, as well as the manifest unfairness
of taxation without representation.
	The Suffrage Association has developed
much latent talent among the members.
We have debates, lectures on topics of
general, interest, biographical sketches of
noted men and women of ancient and
modern times, also discussions on the
silver question, Home Rule in Ireland, and
in fact almost everything of mutual interest
except partisan issues which would have a
tendency to breed discord in our association,
as some of our ladies are very pronounced
adherents of the two great political parties,
so by mutual consent we have left these
questions out of our discussions and de-
bates, and as a consequence we have en-
joyed the utmost harmony and good feeling
in our meetings.
	We have adopted Mrs. Shattuck’s
Manual of Parliamentary Law as our
standard and quite a number of copies of
the work are owned by the members.
Gentlemen frequently ask me questions in
relation to the politics of the Suffrage As-
sociation, and I invariably reply that we
are neither Republicans or Democrats as an 
organization, but that we are for Equal
Suffrage first, last and all the time and that
so long as our legal recognition ends with
the payment of our taxes and the penalties
of broken laws we do not choose to declare
our allegiance to any political party, but
when our vested rights are restored to us,
that our votes will always be counted on
the side of good  government and popular
liberty without license.
	While there is a good deal of Suffrage
Sentiment ‘‘lying around loose” in the local
organizations throughout the County, with
one or two exceptions they have languished
for the want of a presiding officer, who has
the courage of her convictions to brave the

[Column 2]
ridicule and opposition which is still to be
met to some extent, but in a much less de-
gree than formerly, and who also combine
with this quality energy, perseverance, and
the capacity to do an unlimited amount of
hard work, as a special qualification.
	It is true that the way has been long and
weary and its ending almost out of sight,
but the dawn is slowly but surely breaking,
and the mists of prejudice and error are
being rolled back by a master hand, because
it is manifestly among the purposes of the
Creator that his daughters shall be equally
free with his sons.
	It requires no prophetic eye to see that
the victors laurel will in the near future
crown the grey hairs of the veteran leaders
of the cause who have borne the burden of
scorn and opposition which was the only
reward of the early suffragists; and now
that their earthly pilgrimage is nearly
finished Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B.
Anthony, Lucy Stone and other pioneer
workers are receiving the honor and
recognition to which they are justly entitled;
and a host of younger women are following
in their footsteps. This year of grace has
been a revelation of the powers and pos-
sibilities of women.
	The Columbian Exposition has developed
phenomenal traits of character requiring
tact, skill and executive ability. We find
woman occupying the front rank in
education, oratory, art and medicine. We
also find her laboring zealously as a reform-
er but under existing conditions she is al-
ways handicapped by her lack of the ballot
to enforce her righteous demands. In
proof of this when a petition signed by
eighty thousand citizens of Chicago, was
presented to Mayor Harrison asking him to
prohibit the sale of intoxicants in the Fair
Grounds he was very particular to inquire
how many of the petitioners were voters.
Municipal Suffrage in several cities gives
women greater power to combat existing
evils than ever before; and that their power
in this direction is understood and appreci-
ated is abundantly manifested by the
resolutions adopted last summer by the
Brewers Convention in Chicago, and recent-
ly by the Michigan Liquor Dealers Associa-
tion in Milwaukee to the effect, that they
were now and always unutterably opposed
to woman’s suffrage, that it would strike
a death blow to their interests, etc.
	Our respectable opponents would do
well to investigate, and see what company
they keep in their attitude of hostility to
the suffrage cause. The enfranchised,
virtuous womanhood of our land will be a
constant menace to the evil doer, and when
the more moral half of the population can
express its condemnation of legalized vice
at the ballot box the millennium will be
very near. The gains for the cause dur-
ing the past year have been unprecedented.
Women have demonstrated their capabilities
as political speakers by holding vast
audiences spell bound by their matchless
eloquence,while dealing with themes which
were formerly considered to be far beyond
the range of their comprehension. But the
world moves and the struggle in Colorado


and Kansas for constitutional amendments
to enfranchise the women of those states,
will be watched with interest by all friends
of Equal Rights, for a victory for them will
have more than local significance, the
cause is surely marching onward to success
in spite of indifference and opposition.
	In conclusion I wonld say, that although
circumstances prevent me from meeting
with you on this occasion, yet I am with
you heart and soul for the good work, and
have never for a moment lost faith in the
result. We have many difficulties to meet
and obstacles to overcome which you do
not have and foremost among them is the
lack of funds. The membership fee has in
many instances been literally the widow’s
mite only obtained by self-denial and the
sacrifice of personal comfort, while many
who have abundant means also “have all
the rights they want.’’ We cannot afford
to stop now with the goal almost in sight
but eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,
and we who have accepted the new gospel
of Equal Rights, must labor with untiring
zeal for the redemption of the masses.
Indifference is a far greater foe to the cause
than opposition, but both will melt away
like snow before a summer sun in the
dawning light of the twentieth century.
	Yours for Equality before the Law.
Oct. 3, 1893.	A. L. Cox,
President Sanpete Co. W. S. A.


