[Vol32 | August 1945 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Sewing Service - Annual Report]

Attention is also directed to "Notes From the Field" appearing monthly in the Magazine and recounting various Relief Society activities as reported by stakes, missions, and local Relief Societies. These continuing reports serve to high light and delineate Relief Society activities which, in an annual report, can be treated only in summary. Pertinent figures from the 1944 report are compared with those of 1943 in summary tables appearing on pages 494-495.

RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING SERVICE

Sewing service at Relief Society work meetings in 1944 was the most extensive yet reported, aggregating a total of 716,760 hours' service and 254,004 units completed. Classified according to kinds, the 254,004 completed articles consisted of 14,019 quilts, 21,866 pieces of other bedding, 39,725 articles of children's clothing, 18,578 articles of women's clothing, 12,195 pieces of men's clothing, and 147,650 miscellaneous items such as dish towels, rugs, and other unclassified articles.

However, the number of women doing this increased sewing declined slightly from 1943 to 32,676. It therefore seems advisable to repeat the following exhortation from the 1944 Annual Report: "... this group of sewing women represents less than one-third of the total membership of the Society, and it would seem that a larger percentage might be brought into the sewing program, even though some of the members are unavailable for this service because of war work or other employment. Suggestions for emphasizing and extending the Society's sewing program throughout the Church, and for enlisting the interest and participation of more women in the work meeting through promotion of sewing skills, appear on pages 378-389, this issue [July 1944] of the Magazine."

Sewing for Red Cross

Approximately one-fourth of the women sewing at Relief Society work meetings during 1944 worked on articles for the Red Cross. These women, numbering 7,874, gave 193,338 hours and completed 103,744 articles. Although fewer hours of service were given, the articles completed were more than double the number reported in 1943, indicating the making of a greater number of small articles requiring less time than articles previously assigned by the Red Cross.

Sewing for Church Welfare

The next largest number of articles was completed for the Church Welfare Plan and totaled 83,414 pieces. This is more than three times the number of articles completed for the Church Welfare Plan in 1943, but in that year the assignment consisted principally of quilts, whereas the 1944 assignment consisted principally of clothing for men, women and children and supplementary bedding and household supplies such as sheets, pillowcases and dish towels. There is no segregated record of the amount of time spent at Relief Society meetings on Church Welfare sewing.

Many stakes held impressive displays of the sewing accomplished for the Church Welfare Plan during 1944. (See "Notes From the Field," June 1945.) As in 1943, the General Board authorized the purchase of materials for this assignment from funds of the Society, and disbursements for this purpose doubtless accounted largely for the increase of $4,268.19, or 30 per cent over 1943 disbursements. Permission to use Relief Society funds for this purpose was not continued beyond 1944, when collection of funds by Relief Society visiting teachers was discontinued and when the General Board and the General Church Welfare Committee agreed to rely on the provision of the Church Welfare Plan which charges regional or stake welfare committees with responsibility for financing assignments which they receive. The following comments from a few stakes reflect the spirit with which Relief Society women accepted this assignment and the pride which they took in its fulfillment:

From Rexburg Stake (Idaho): This assignment was almost equally divided among the fifteen wards and at a special meeting was given to the ward presidents for acceptance. It was with a great deal of trepidation that the assignments were given to the wards, but not a single word of protest was made. Each president accepted her list and went home to work out ways and means of fulfilling it. Cotton goods of any kind and white materials especially were almost off the market, but this did not daunt the sisters. With a will that finds a way, the assignments were completed before the close of the year—many of them, before six months had passed. Some of the wards used their charity or their general funds, or part of both, for the purchase of materials. Others gathered donations from the teachers' districts. For example, a certain district would be assigned the twenty-one dish towels, and the teachers on that district would either collect the goods or their equivalent in money. Most of the layettes were gathered at a baby shower at one of the work meetings. At the meeting beforehand, slips of paper with the names of articles required were drawn by the sisters, and on the day of the shower, they came with the article nicely wrapped. The occasion was made into a lovely party, with refreshments, programs, and games, after which the layette was displayed by the presidency. One ward made most of their assignment from poultry feed bags, which they collected from the poultry men in their area, washed and bleached and then made into slips and panties, pillowcases and dish towels. Some of the bags were dyed in pastel colors and made into dainty slips for the children. When completed, the assignments were pressed and beautifully packed and turned into the welfare center. Not a single article from any ward was lacking. We feel that neither mere words nor cold figures can tell the sacrifice, loyalty and devotion which the sisters put into the achievement of this huge task. Many of them bought their limit or two sheets, giving them to the Society and doing without themselves. Hours of sewing in the homes were required for the completion of this project. But we are sure that every Relief Society woman in the stake is gratified with her accomplishment.

From Phoenix Stake (Arizona): During January 1944, representatives from each ward met and cut all the articles for our welfare sewing; 50 hours of cutting was done. The articles were then distributed to the wards for sewing. Our 1944 assignments were completed early in the year.

From Cottonwood Stake (Utah): The women of the eight wards met the requirements of the welfare assignment in the most co-operative spirit, finishing the entire assignment long before it was due. Great pride was taken in making the layettes, fine handwork making them very dainty and attractive. Every organization displayed in its own ward the finished articles before sending them to the regional storehouse.

From San Francisco Stake (California): The stake and ward Relief Societies exhibited their welfare sewing in the amusement hall at the October stake conference. This exhibit consisted of ten large tables laden with handmade quilts, clothing, et cetera. This display helped to stimulate interest in welfare work and an appreciation for the industry of the Relief Society women.

The following comment from Uintah Stake is a reminder of the timeliness of the bedding project recommended by the Church Welfare Committee and the General Board of Relief Society in 1941 and 1942 for the purpose of encouraging and assisting families to restock their bedding supplies:

From Uintah Stake (Utah): During 1944 our bedding project was still being carried forward in some wards with interest and beneficial results. One ward with an enrollment of forty-one members completed forty-three quilts, almost an average of four quilts for each work day of the year. At the close of this year we all know that materials for quilt making are practically off the market. The president of this ward tells us they are very thankful this bedding project was assigned for now every family in their ward is more adequately supplied with bedding than ever before, and in working out the project they have had very happy times together, have increased the average attendance at meetings, and have grown spiritually. Other wards have also done splendid work in the line of bedding.

Sewing for Other Purposes

Articles made for Relief Society purposes, usually to replenish the Societies treasuries through bazaars and custom sewing, chiefly quilting, also increased over 1943 and amounted to 54,434 articles. In addition, 116,171 articles were made for other purposes, such as sewing for hospitals and other worthy community purposes, but a slight decrease of nearly 7,000 articles was recorded in this section during the year, doubtless due to decreased need for this service from community agencies.

Here are some additional comments which relate to other Relief Society sewing activities and to the efforts made to increase participation in Relief Society work meetings with a view to teaching and benefiting the members themselves with their home sewing as well as to give sewing service for others:

From Uintah Stake (Utah): Also on work days we sponsored a project of made-over clothing. To make this more interesting and beneficial some of our ward leaders participated in a three-day school conducted by an extension specialist from the Agricultural College. These leaders then demonstrated in the different wards the work they had received, and soon many little girls were thrilled with a new skirt made from daddy's old coat, or a slip or even a dress made from his old shirt. To finish off this project we had a display of "made-overs" at our stake conference in November.

From Rexburg Stake (Idaho): Our board added four women's and four men's suits to our baptismal clothing cupboard; also some towels and a heavy rug. This project has proved a great blessing to the children and adults who come to the Tabernacle for baptism. A member of the board is in attendance each month. A small fee is charged for the use of the clothing—enough to pay for the laundry. Our aim is to supply enough clothing someday to have every one wearing uniform outfits.

From Phoenix Stake (Arizona): Thirty-two baptismal suits were cut and made and donated to the Arizona Temple.

From Pasadena Stake (California): A project on which our Relief Societies are really putting forth some excellent effort is the remodeling of used clothing. We are obtaining old clothes which are in good condition and making the hard-to-get children's clothing, and the materials are far superior to any new ones which can be purchased at this time.

From Ogden Stake (Utah): The wards seem much enthused over the new procedure on work day, and we are happy to note a general pickup, and that the attendance is improving.

From Snowflake Stake (Arizona): Several bazaars were held during the year. One ward working for a new rug for their room put pep into their work by choosing sides. Each group was given $20 to buy material with; the bazaar netted them over $300.

From Highland Stake (Utah): At a planning meeting on September 19, we presented a display of new and remodeled clothing and other articles in an effort to stimulate an interest among the ward workers in introducing similar activities into their work meetings. One of the wards held a successful apron sale and one helped with a ward fair. In several of the wards cooking demonstrations have been held on their work days. A fairly large amount of quilting has been done in most of the wards. We feel that the new work-day program has been carried out very successfully in our stake.

OTHER CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE

In addition to sewing at Relief Society meetings on articles to be turned in to bishops' storehouses, Relief Society women have done sewing at some of the storehouses, have assisted at storehouses with the canning of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables, and have stimulated interest and activity in their various communities in increased canning for home use in order to conserve food supplies and to relieve

Notes to the Field (Continued from page 472)
to the respective Relief Societies which own them. A Relief Society wishing to call a bond before maturity may procure its bond at any time upon request, accompanied by the receipt of deposit issued by this office.
Bulletin 24 issued February 19, 1942, to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, pointed out, on page 13, that Series E bonds are for issue only to individuals, that any bonds purchased from Relief Society funds should be either of series F or G, and should be in the name of the Society. Not the name of an individual. A CHILD'S PRAYER Sue Hopkins Holy Father, hear my prayer, Lead me through this world of care. Let my sins be all forgiven. Find me safe at last in heaven. Annual Report?1944
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 1940-1945 
RELIEF Society activities were carried forward during 1944 very much as in 1943, and the outstanding accomplishments were in the same fields; namely (1) sewing service including an extensive assignment for the Church Welfare Plan; (2) continuation of special war services; (3) a further substantial increase in Relief Society Magazine subscriptions; and (4) continuation of the Society's educational program with a slight but heartening increase in attendance despite wartime restrictions and conditions.
These and other services and activities were carried forward by Relief Society women with their characteristic devotion, efficiency, and humility, despite their intense anxiety over the absence of sons and daughters and other loved ones due to the exigencies of war, despite the increased demands on their own time because of labor shortages in their homes and communities, and despite the great grief of the loss of gallant young sons.
To all these, the sisterhood of Relief Society has been an anchor and a blessing, a source of sympathetic understanding and deep spiritual support, a means of easing anxiety and sorrow in the blessed-ness of serving others, of gaining uplift and hope for the future, and of strengthening their faith in the divine plan of eternal life and progression.
The growth in Relief Magazine subscriptions was reported in detail in the issue for May 1945, pages 292 to 313, indicating that the exceptional gains resulting from the special effort of 1943 were not only maintained but further increased during 1944 by nearly 5,000 additional subscriptions.
