(To be continued) Notes to the Field (Continued from page 472)
to the respective Relief Societies which own them. A Relief Society wishing to call a bond before maturity may procure its bond at any time upon request, accompanied by the receipt of deposit issued by this office.
Bulletin 24 issued February 19, 1942, to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, pointed out, on page 13, that Series E bonds are for issue only to individuals, that any bonds purchased from Relief Society funds should be either of series F or G, and should be in the name of the Society. Not the name of an individual. A CHILD'S PRAYER Sue Hopkins Holy Father, hear my prayer, Lead me through this world of care. Let my sins be all forgiven. Find me safe at last in heaven. Annual Report?1944
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 1940-1945 
RELIEF Society activities were carried forward during 1944 very much as in 1943, and the outstanding accomplishments were in the same fields; namely (1) sewing service including an extensive assignment for the Church Welfare Plan; (2) continuation of special war services; (3) a further substantial increase in Relief Society Magazine subscriptions; and (4) continuation of the Society's educational program with a slight but heartening increase in attendance despite wartime restrictions and conditions.
These and other services and activities were carried forward by Relief Society women with their characteristic devotion, efficiency, and humility, despite their intense anxiety over the absence of sons and daughters and other loved ones due to the exigencies of war, despite the increased demands on their own time because of labor shortages in their homes and communities, and despite the great grief of the loss of gallant young sons.
To all these, the sisterhood of Relief Society has been an anchor and a blessing, a source of sympathetic understanding and deep spiritual support, a means of easing anxiety and sorrow in the blessed-ness of serving others, of gaining uplift and hope for the future, and of strengthening their faith in the divine plan of eternal life and progression.
The growth in Relief Magazine subscriptions was reported in detail in the issue for May 1945, pages 292 to 313, indicating that the exceptional gains resulting from the special effort of 1943 were not only maintained but further increased during 1944 by nearly 5,000 additional subscriptions.