[Vol32 | August 1945 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Gratitude Crawford]

469 EDITORIAL 


VOL. 32 AUGUST 1945 NO. 8
Gratitude Should Be Expressed Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it (Proverbs 3:27). MANY of the tools for building happiness lie so close at hand that their worth is often unrecognized. Among these tools, easy to use and free for the taking, is gratitude. Its possibilities for assuring personal contentment and spreading joy to others have perhaps not been fully discovered by any of us. Gratitude has many facets, but fundamentally it is the recognition of the good and the beautiful and thankfulness for them. "Count your many blessings" has been good advice since the world began. This philosophy is still a comfort and a compensation, an ideal to be cultivated, for it is still a paradox of human nature that the largeness of gratitude does not always correspond to the extent of the blessings received. Appreciation is an attribute of the generous mind and the open heart.
When the spirit of thankfulness attains its full stature, it goes beyond gratefulness for that which we personally possess and gains joy from blessings which others own.
Whatever type of gratitude may permeate our thoughts, its value is only half effective if we do not express our sense of gratefulness. Gratitude unexpressed is idle treasure. The thoughtful word of sincerity, the simple "Thank you," the note of appreciation, are all answers for favors received. The alert willingness to offer service to those who have given freely of their time and substance is gratitude expressed.
Gratitude to God is the leaven of religion. Gratitude for country becomes the vital force of patriotism. Gratitude for one's heritage forms the basis for that continuity of life which expresses itself in record keeping and ordinances for the dead. Today more than ever before, we realize an abiding gratitude to that courageous ancestor of the family who first listened to the gospel and believed.
Too often children, even sons and daughters who have attained adult status, fail to give credit to their parents for years of sacrifice and care. Too often the rush of daily life obscures the duties of gratitude. Parents, too, as they grow older and their thoughts turn inward, may be guilty of ingratitude. Through lack of forbearance and understanding, they may demand more of their children than can be given or should be expected.
The Lord has said (Doc. & Cov. 59:21) "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled save those who confess not his hand in all thing, and obey his commandments."?V.P.C. Notes TO THE FIELD
Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
"RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" was voted the official name of the Society by action of the General Board of Relief Society at the Board meeting held June 27, 1945. This name replaces "National Woman's Relief Society" by which name the Society has been known since 1892.
When Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the name chosen was "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Later when ward organizations were effected after the arrival of the saints in Salt Lake Valley, the designation "of Nauvoo" was dropped and, in 1872, by vote of the members, the word "Female" was also dropped from the title. "Relief Society" was used as the official name of the organization from that time until 1892 when the Society was incorporated for a period of fifty years under the name "National Woman's Relief Society." Since Relief Society is an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whose message is to all the world, the name "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," is felt to be the proper one.
Stake Planning Meeting Recommended During September
THE General Board, with the approval of the General Authorities, again recommends that a stake planning meeting be held during the month of September, preliminary to the beginning of regular weekly meetings in October, for all stake board members, ward officers, and class leaders. It is recommended that, wherever feasible, this meeting be arranged in connection with a stake priesthood meeting or a local board conference in order to keep transportation at a minimum. The purpose of this meeting is to stimulate all phases of Relief Society work at the beginning of the 1945-46 season, to preview lesson work and other activities planned for the coming year, and to give whatever instructions and help are deemed necessary by the stake board. Stake Relief Society presidents will please acquaint their respective stake presidents with the recommendation that special meeting be held, and arrange with them as to the
most favorable time for calling the meeting. Stake Relief Society presidents are requested to send complete details of this meeting to all ward presidents as soon as possible so that good ward representation may be assured. The General Board feels sure that stake board members will make every effort to take full advantage of this special meeting, and that they will be well prepared to conduct their respective departments for ward workers at this meeting.
Red Cross Classes in Nutrition Now Available
THE American Red Cross is now offering throughout seven Western and Pacific States; namely, Utah, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, California, Oregon, and Washington, courses in nutrition designed to aid homemakers with the problem of substitute foods for rationed items and also with the proper preservation of food and food values. These courses are particularly valuable at the present time because of food restrictions and the possibility of future food shortages.
Two courses are available?one is a twelve-hour course; the other is a twenty-hour course. Classes are conducted once a week or at more frequent intervals according to the desires of those participating in the activity.
Relief Society groups wishing to take advantage of these courses are advised to get in touch with the nutrition chairman of the Red Cross in their local communities. Instructors will be provided free of charge and the necessary equipment will be supplied by the Red Cross.
Relief Society War Bonds to Be Deposited with General Board
DURING 1944, the General Board arranged for the pooling and safekeeping of war bonds purchased by Relief Society, so that none would be lost track of during the reorganizations of Societies which end of 1944, many bonds had been deposited with the General Board for safekeeping only, however, many Societies have not taken advantage of this service.
All stake and ward Relief Societies whose bonds have not been posted are urged to take advantage of the free safekeeping service offered by the General Board. No charge will be made for this service.
Bonds mailed to the General Board for safekeeping be sent by registered mail. A receipt will be issued for each bond received, showing the name of the stake or ward Relief Society to which it was issued, the date of issue, the series, the bond serial number, the face value of the bond, and date of maturity. As the bonds mature, they will be returned by registered mail (Continued on page 477)