[Vol32 | August 1945 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Literature How the Bible Driggs]
"Not from any sectarian viewpoint," said the instructor. "It would be un-American to do so. Yet, how can our literature be adequately taught without constant reference to the Bible?"
"I am not sure just what you mean," said another student.
"Well, let us put some concreteness into the explanation. Most of you are teachers of literature. What are some selections you are called on to teach?"
"Evangeline," "Vision of Sir Launfal," "L'Envoi," "Snow-bound," came replies.
"They will serve our purpose," said the instructor. "Listen carefully now to some lines from the poems named:
And as she gazed from the window, she saw serenely the moon pass Forth from the folds of a cloud, and one star follow her footsteps, As out of Abraham's tent young Ishmael wandered with Hagar. ?"Evangeline," (Part III), Longfellow
Daily, with souls that cringe and plot, We Sinne climb and know it not. ?"Vision of Sir Launfal," Lowell
They shall find real saints to draw from? Magdalene, Peter, and Paul; They shall work at age at a sitting, and never get tired at? ?"L'Envoi," Kipling
"Take, eat," he said, "and be content, These fishes in my stead are sent By Him who sent the tangled ram, To spare the child of Abraham." ?"Snowbound," Whittier
"How can any of these, or hundreds of other lines containing like allusions, be explained without a knowledge of the Bible?"
"But aren't those examples somewhat old-fashioned?" asked a student.
"Your question seems to imply that modern authors are not weaving
the Bible into their creations.  
Well, here is a volume called Contemporary Verse. Perhaps it will help us to find an answer. Glancing through its table of contents I find a few titles that recall interesting hues: Poems are made by fools like me, But only God can make a tree. ?"Trees," Joyce Kilmer They gave their merry lives away For Country and for God. ?"Spires of Oxford," Winifred Betts And he who loves the least of these (And here I say and here repeat) Shall win himself an angel's pleas For mercy at my judgment seat. ?"The Outlaw," Robert Service Thank God for a world where none may shirk, Thank God for the splendor of work. ?"Work," Angela Morgan America! Americal God mend thine every flaw. Confirm thy soul in self control, Thy liberty in law. ?"America the Beautiful," Katharine Lee Bates Give them this for the morrow's meat, Then shall we feast in accord; Our half a loaf will then be sweet. Sweet as the bread of the Lord! ?"How Oswald Dined with God," Edwin Markham No one knows what will happen next, such portents fill the days and nights; Years prophetical! ?"Years of the Modern," Walt Whitman OK I go wherever men may dare, I go wherever woman's care And love can live? Wherever strength and skill can bring Surcease to human suffering Or solace give. ?"The Red Cross Spirit Speaks," John H. Finley Are not these lines from recent poetry all linked with the Bible? Joyce Kilmer's artistic tribute to God's surpassing power of creation; the touching lines of Winifred Betts to merry-hearted youth giving their all for country and for God; the use of precious words from the Savior by Robert Service; the gratitude expressed by Angela Morgan for God-given work?all clearly show that source of inspiration. In the prayer of Katherine Lee Bates for America?vital today and always ?that our liberty be preserved in Law, we feel the Bible spirit. It vibrates also in the lines of Edwin Markham, picturing a king sharing with the poor; and in Walt Whitman's words, so applicable to the living present. In John H. Finley's tribute to the Red Cross, one feels the helpful, courageous spirit of the Savior. In much of the literature of today the heart of the Good Samaritan vibrates. Such expression of gospel service is surely Bible-inspired. Of course, these illustrations from more modern poetry are somewhat different from those cited from earlier poets. Fashions change in literature as in other things; yet the constants are ever present. When the Bible came, it brought certain of these constants: reverence for God, charity, humility, service, sacrifice, a more democratic spirit, and other spiritual gifts for our salvation. It was like the pouring of a river, limpid and pure, into the old turbid stream of life. All our art expression since then has been clarified, enriched, inspirited by the divine contribution.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 505
This is shown in both tangible and intangible changes wrought in our literature. As aleady illustrated, authors, particularly those of earlier years, made many more direct allusions to stories and characters of the Bible. It was the enriching thing to do. When Lowell, for example, says that daily "We Sinais climb and know it not," his line brings back the story of Moses going up into the mountain to commune with God. The poet also suggests that, without knowing it, we get close to God each day. To understand the inner meaning of this allusion, one must know the Bible story that lies back of it.
Another tangible way the Bible is woven into lines of literature is by use of Biblical expressions-words, phrases, and even sentences. How deeply indebted our language is to this contribution may be more clearly realized by something of a comparison of literature today with that of pre-Bible days. Go back to the Northland myths for illustration. In these tales one finds a goodly number of words suggestive of brute strength, skill with weapons of trickery, cunning, deceit, of feasting, drinking, carousing, of giants, sorcery, mystery. Few, if any, words are found expressive of charity, meekness, kindliness, benevolence, tolerance, forgiveness, brotherhood, holidays (holy days). These, and like expressions of gospel import, came into our mother tongue largely through the Bible.
Less tangible than words and allusions, yet even more vital, are the changes wrought through the influence of the Bible on the inner spirit of literature. It brought what may well be called a leavening effect on all forms of art.
More hope, more joy, more faith, more whole-someness came to the varied kinds of expression. Naturally, literature was lightened and brightened and given added meaning and purpose by this spiritualizing force.
With much of our great literature this infusion of new warmth and life and strength is to be felt rather than seen.
Bible thought and themes are often so deftly woven into the creation by the author that, unless one is well-schooled in scripture, the close connection might be missed. Yet the stirring lessons of truth are there. It is the artistry of authorship not to preach them, but to portray them. In further studies, an interesting quest will be to find some of these Bible messages at the heart of time-tested literature.
True it is that certain writers reveal precious little of Bible influence in what they produce.
With cynical disregard of that source of inspiration, they have gone their own irreverent ways.
Sometimes they create daring, cleverly-written literature, which, for the moment, wins wide attention.
Then it as suddenly flickers out, as all such creations, if unsound and unwholesome, are almost sure to do.
Folk may read, but few reread literature of that type. Our conviction is that authors do their finest, most lasting work when they are true to truth, when they produce that which is clean and artistic, when they help to overcome evil with good.  
There is no call here for "preach-iness" in literature; neither is there any exclusion of choice literature created for wholesome entertainment. Happily, we have many delightful creations which open our eyes and ears to the beauties of nature, to the joys of childhood, to home pleasures and uplifting friendships. Some of the selections help to cultivate in us a clean sense of humor, to get more pure enjoyment out of life. Outwardly or inwardly this literature may make no reference to the Bible; yet the spirit of goodness and wholesome fun is in it, and truly we need it to add a bit of leaven to our days. Something more than just this lightsome literature is also needed for our upbuilding. That is the literature which brings real re-creation. Such literature, as already portrayed, leaves us both mentally and spiritually uplifted. It brings to us lessons of truth and light. It leads us along paths of righteousness. It is Bible-inspired. Discussion and Activities 1. Why is a knowledge of the Bible essential in the study of English and American literature? Be ready with an illustration to prove the point. 2. (a) What is meant by a Biblical allusion? (b) Make your meaning clearer by giving in brief the incident or meaning suggested by each of the following expressions: "like showers of manna"; "toiling up new Calvaries"; "our Lord's beatitudes"; "in Eden's delight"; "like the Patmos saint." 3. (a) Join with the class in making a list of twenty or more words other than those given in this lesson, which probably have come into our language through the Bible, (b) What in a spiritual sense is indicated by this enrichment of our vocabulary? 4. In what other vital way than by allusions and words has the Bible influenced our literature? Illustrate. 5. What type of literature may show no such Biblical influence and yet be of value in our lives? Give illustrations. 6. What are some of the spiritual qualities that characterize literature that brings not only entertainment, but re-creation? Name one selection that you feel has these qualities. 7. Point out, with illustrations, a difference in the way authors of earlier times and today reflect the Bible influence in their writings. Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 9?Problems of Personal Conduct Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, November 27, 1945
Lesson link: We attempted last time to apply the moral principle of brotherhood to several specific social situations. It was shown how prejudice and animosity lead toward patterns of discrimination and persecution in the modern world. Religious intolerance was used as an example of the contemporary moral crisis in both Christianity and democracy. Lesson aim: To stress the importance of personal cleanliness, balanced conduct, and self-control to the good life. IT has been said earlier that the good life depends upon both personal and social factors; that the highest morality, which results in the greatest joy, comes from individual health and advancement plus love and service oriented toward others. Last month we looked at the brotherhood principle and examined a few of its perversions. This time we will turn attention to some of the moral problems of personal conduct.
Life is a process of continual adjustment to new situations, and where individuals lag or fail in their adjustment, personal and social problems result. Since the best adjustment means the most progress and the greatest happiness, anything short of the best possible adjustment is wrong. But adjustment is difficult, and there seems to be an all too-common human tendency to dodge that which is hard and remote in favor of the easy way leading to immediate thrills. Hence the prevalence of human suffering. When the energies of man become dissipated in the attempt to circumvent truth and escape consequences, opportunities are missed and misery ensues. It is to some of these dissipations leading to personal maladjustment and unhappiness that attention is now turned.
Drugs
The use of narcotics produces a temporary sense of pleasantness or well-being and permits the sufferer to forget for awhile his mental fears and conflicts. It is perhaps this element of escape from unpleasant reality that explains the rather wide
The proportion of the population addicted to the more serious drugs such as opium, heroin, morphine, and cocaine, is probably not very large; although occasionally we read of "dope rings" being uncovered and some authorities estimate that there are more than one million addicts in this country alone. Sometimes the habit is picked up innocently such as through the use of sleeping pills, pain-killers, or patent medicines. In using narcotic medicines, even under a doctor's prescription, great care should be exercised to use them moderately and only as absolutely needed. Once the habit is formed, the user's system has then become conditioned to the drug and he is a virtual slave to its use. Addiction to the use of drugs frequently results in poverty, ill-health, and crime, and the cure, if any be possible, requires rather long and expensive treatment at the hands of the psychiatrist.
A more serious problem than the taking of opiates and cocaine is the smoking of marijuana cigarettes?more serious because this drug is consumed largely by the young, because its results are particularly demoralizing, and because it may be even more widespread than the other practices. Under the influence of marijuana, restraint, moral judgment, and self-control are gone, and acts are frequently indulged in that head the boy and girl toward degradation. Marijuana comes from an innocent looking weed, and although many states by now have laws attempting its control, its suppression is proving particularly difficult.  
The taking of caffeine, nicotine, and other narcotic substances into the body through the use of certain drinks and through smoking is also habit forming and body harming. Our Church literature is replete with good material on these subjects. (See section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and consult also some of the many articles and chapters on the Word of Wisdom found in the magazines and books of the Church.) Drink Just as drug addiction is an attempted escape from unpleasant reality and a crutch for unstable characters, so also is the use of alcoholic beverages.
People who drink do so, for the most part, to forget the unpleasantries of life and to thereby capture the thrills of the moment.
They fail to remember that no one can really escape life; he can only shut his eyes for awhile, stumble, and get behind in the race. The magnitude of the liquor problem is alarming.
Some three or four billion dollars go into this industry in America each year, and, since alcohol is not a necessity, most of this is wasted money. But the greatest waste is human waste.
Families are neglected and abused; lives are dissipated and shortened; accidents are increased, resulting in the death and maiming of many; morals are relaxed and crimes increased, particularly sex crimes; insanity very frequently overtakes the one so indulging.
This human wreckage resulting from drink in the modern world, when all brought together, does not make a pretty picture.
People who drink "to be a good sport" or because they think it is "smart" should remember that sportmanship without principle is a mirage, and that always the smart thing to do is the right thing.
Those who drink to "forget" should remember that their euphoria is but illusionary and that in so behaving they only build up a vicious circle, for they only create more bad memories that they will want to forget. Gambling In one sense life is a gamble, for it is so filled with uncertainties and anomalies and it requires so much faith and courage to see it through. But there is a vast difference between this courage in the face of uncertainties in the struggle upward and the willful play on chance for the purpose of getting something for nothing; the one gives evidence of faith and results in effort and progress, while the other is based on selfishness and laziness alone. This "something for nothing" philosophy of life, coupled with the idea that "only the foolish work," makes of gambling an escape device designed to side-step morals for the sake of money.
Large scale gambling involving cards, roulette wheels, and such, is illegal in most states; but illegal or not it finds ways of functioning under cover in many of the nation's "best" communities.
Hidden from the police or "protected" by city officials, professional gamblers in especially prepared rooms encourage the gullible to participate in these nefarious activities; and through techniques well known to themselves, make sure that the "house" gets a heavy cut out of the winnings.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 509
The spirit of gambling, once it has taken hold of a person, is like a narcotic or a liquor in its deadening and maddening effects. The thrill of an occasional win is enough to tide over several substantial losses and, in this way, keep the losing spiral going viciously downward until the participant's money is all gone.
Always there is the thought, the desperate hope, that next time he can beat the game and then he will stop; but next time he loses once more, or, if he should win, there is the untempered greed that won't let him quit.
Parents and community workers (and all parents should be vitally and actively interested in the welfare of the community) will do well to realize that the road to gambling frequently starts at the juvenile "joint" where there are marble games and slot machines to whet the appetite of the young. If these could be cleaned out or changed to eliminate the pay-off feature, as some of our communities have been farsighted enough to do, a great step in moral progress would be made. But this is not all. In addition, parents should teach their children that all things worth while cost effort, honestly and honorably given. Unchastity Sex life motivated by love and protected by marriage is sanctioned by society and blessed by deity. It is the misuse of sex that is immoral; practices impelled by selfish lust and irresponsible exploitation.
That which is beautiful and sacred is too frequently cheapened and defiled by means of the vulgar remark, the smutty story, the erotic show, the lewd magazine, et cetera.
Vulgarity is the profanity of virtue.
When sexual irregularities are carried beyond the mental, the verbal, and the visual into the realm of overt conduct, the moral issue involved becomes particularly great. Unchastity, whether in premarital relations or extramarital relations after marriage, presents one of the most serious moral problems of the day. The following are some of the most important reasons for maintaining chastity: (1) It is a commandment of God. (2) It is sanctioned by society. The social stigma leveled by society against the offender often results in loss of both social position and employment, which is a high price to pay for a reckless moment. (3) It is necessary for mental health and peace of mind. The worries, fears, and guilt feelings connected with unchastity are sometimes enough to cause frustrations leading to chronic unhappiness, nervousness, and even psychosis. (4) It is important from the standpoint of physical health. The venereal diseases, resulting largely from sexual promiscuity, are among the most loathsome and miserable ailments of man. (5) It safeguards against premarital pregnancy followed by induced abortion, illegitimacy or forced marriage. (6) It is compatible with happy and successful marriage. In any number of ways unchastity may interfere with emotional and sexual adjustment in marriage.
