[Vol32 | August 1945 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Brigham Youngs Driggs]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 10?Brigham Young's Call to Leadership Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 6, 1945
Objective: To show the power of leadership under God. A N erect, broad-shouldered man in the vigor of his early forties stood one August afternoon in the year 1844 to address a multitude of saints. There were pain and anxiety in the faces that looked up at him, and a silence known only when the great moments of life hush human hearts. He began: Attention all! This congregation makes me think of the days of King Benjamin, the multitude being so great that all could not hear. I request the brethren not to have any feelings for being convened this afternoon, for it is necessary; we want you all to be still and give attention that all may hear. Let none complain because of the situation of the congregation, we will do the best we can (D. H. C., Vol. VII, page 252). Rows upon rows of men bearing the Priesthood of God appeared in order according to their various quorums. As of one mind they listened. Here was a man, a courageous leader, who had cut short his recent missionary assignment to the East to hasten home. His friends Page 498 needed him, for they, too, had heavy hearts like his. "Brother Joseph," their Prophet, lay dead, his voice was stilled, his sight taken. He had been their voice and their sight these many years. Who now was to hear the voice of the Lord and speak? Martyred while yet in his thirties, how could the people of this modern seer be expected to think so soon of the days when another would be appointed to lead the Church? That time had now come with shocking reality, and, within the hours of the day before them, there was a decision to be made. Would the Church be lead by a "guardian" or a president? It was Brigham Young who now stood before the assemblage to help the saints in their hour of decision. There was a firmness in his voice and a strength in his delivery which was so needed at this hour. Sidney Rigdon, who had spoken at the morning session of this August 8th conference, seemed too sure of his position as the rightful "guardian to build the church unto Joseph,"
LESSON DEPARTMENT 499 as he put it, to satisfy the hunger in the hearts of the saints. Yet Rigdon was a counselor to Joseph and had been with the Prophet during many of the most marvelous manifestations of the early years of the Church.
Surely his claim to leadership could not be overlooked. But somehow the people felt the need of the voice that could speak the mind and will of the Lord on this most significant point, and Brother Rigdon had lost most of that sweet spirit so present among those in perfect fellowship. He had, because of his self interests, left Nauvoo for Pittsburgh sometime before the martyrdom of the Prophet (Doc. And Gov. 124:108-9). The saints could not but feel that his return now at this most critical hour of the Church had something of the opportunist element in it. In the afternoon of August 7 at 4 P. M., the day before the open-air gathering above described, there was held a meeting of the Church authorities at Nauvoo. A majority of the Quorum of the Twelve was present, together with the high council, the high priests, and the seventies. President William Marks of the Nauvoo Stake prayed, and President Brigham Young called upon Sidney Rigdon to speak, who said: The object of my mission is to visit the saints and offer myself to them as a guardian, I had a vision at Pittsburgh, June 27th.
This was presented to my mind not as an open vision, but rather a continuation of the vision mentioned in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. It was shown to me that this Church must be built up to Joseph,... And I must come to Nauvoo and see that the Church is governed in a proper manner.
Joseph sustains the same relationship to this Church as he has always 'done. No man can be the successor of Joseph. The kingdom is to be built up to Jesus Christ through Joseph; there must be revelation still. The martyred Prophet is still the head of this Church; every quorum should stand as you stood in your washings and consecrations. I have been consecrated a spokesman to Joseph, and I was commanded to speak for him. The Church is not disorganized though our head is gone. We may have a diversity of feelings on this matter. I have been called to be a spokesman unto Joseph, and I want to build up the Church unto him; and if the people want me to sustain this place, I want it upon the principle that every individual shall acknowledge it for himself. I propose to be a guardian to the people; in this I have discharged my duty and done what God has commanded me, and the people can please themselves whether they accept me or not (D. H. C. Vol. VII, pp. 229-230). At the conclusion of Brother Rigdon's remarks. President Brigham Young rose to his feet and said: I do not care who leads the Church, even though it were Ann Lee; but one thing I must know, and that is what God says about it. I have the keys and the means of obtaining the mind of God on the subject. I know there are those in our midst who will seek the lives of the Twelve as they did the lives of Joseph and Hyrum. We shall ordain others and give the fulness of the priesthood, so that if we are killed the fulness of the priesthood may remain.
Joseph conferred upon our heads all the keys and powers belonging to the Apostleship which he himself held before he was taken away, and no man or set of men can get between Joseph and the Twelve in this world or in the world to come. How often has Joseph said to the Twelve, "I have laid the foundation and you must build thereon, for upon your shoulders the kingdom rests." The Twelve, as a quorum, will not be permitted to tarry here long; they will go  abroad and bear off the kingdom to the nations of the earth, and baptize the people faster than mobs can kill them off. I would like, were it my privilege, to take my valise and travel and preach till we had a people gathered who would be true. My private feelings would be to let the affairs of men and women alone, only go and preach and baptize them into the kingdom of God; yet, whatever duty God places upon me, in his strength I intend to fulfill it. I want to see this people, with the various quorums of the priesthood, assembled together in special conference on Thursday next at 10 a.m. (Ibid. page 230). A comparison of these two speeches strikingly shows the difference between leadership subservient to the will of the Lord and that prompted by the power of pride and self-esteem. The Savior pointed the way when he said, "... Not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42); "...
Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister" (Matt. 20:26). God blesses the leader and increases his powers of leadership if he will but be humble and seek instructions from the mind of the Lord. As if having accepted the spirit of Brigham Young on this day, the Lord miraculously manifested his will concerning this man who was to follow in the footsteps of Joseph.
Before the assembled saints, that August afternoon, President Young spoke. The spirit of inspiration was his: Heretofore you have had a Prophet as the mouth of the Lord to speak to you, but he has sealed his testimony with his blood, and now, for the first time, are you called to walk by faith, not by sight.... I now wish to speak of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If the Church is organized, and you want to know how it is organized, I will tell you. I know your feelings?do you want me to tell your feelings...? The Twelve are appointed by the finger of God.
Here is Brigham, have his knees ever faltered?
Have his lips ever quivered?
Here is Heber and the rest of the Twelve, an independent body who have the keys of the priesthood?the keys of the kingdom of God to deliver to all the world: this is true, so help me God.
They stand next to Joseph, and are as the First Presidency of the Church. (See Doc. And Gov. 107:23-24.) I do not know whether my enemies will take my life or not, and I do not care, for I want to be with the man I love. You cannot fill the office of a prophet, seer and revelator: God must do this. You are like children without a father and sheep without a shepherd. You must not appoint any man at our head; if you should, the Twelve must ordain him. You cannot appoint a man at our head; but if you do want any other man or men to lead you, take them and we will go our way to build up the kingdom in all the world. I know who are Joseph's friends, and who are his enemies. I know where the keys of the kingdom are, and where they will eternally be. You cannot call a man to be a prophet; you cannot take Elder Rigdon and place him above the Twelve; if so, he must be ordained by them.... Brother Joseph, the Prophet, has laid the foundation for a great work, and we will build upon it; you have never seen the quorums built one upon another.
There is an almighty foundation laid, and we can build a kingdom such as there never was in the world: we can build a kingdom faster than satan can kill the saints off.... I will ask, who has stood next to Joseph and Hyrum? I have, and I will stand next to him. We have a head, and that head is the Apostleship, the spirit and power of Joseph, and we can now begin to see the necessity of that Apostleship (Ibid. pp. 232-235). It was during this inspiring speech that the transfiguration of Brigham Young occurred. The late President George Q.
Cannon wrote of this event: If Joseph had arisen from the dead and again spoken in their hearing, the effect could not have been more startling than
LESSON DEPARTMENT 501 it was to many present at that meeting; it was the voice of Joseph himself; and not only was it the voice of Joseph which was heard, but it seemed in the eyes of the people as if it were the very person of Joseph which stood before them. A more wonderful and miraculous event than was wrought that day in the presence of that congregation we never heard of. The Lord gave his people a testimony that left no room for doubt as to who was the man chosen to lead them. In the Journal of Elder William C.
Staines of the date of August 8, 1844, AXA following statement is recorded: "Brigham Young said: 'I will tell you who your leaders or guardians will be?the Twelve?I at their head.' This was with the voice like the voice of the Prophet Joseph. I thought it was he, and so did thousands who heard it.
This was very satisfactory to the people, and a vote was taken to sustain the Twelve in their office, which with a few dissenting voices, was passed." Wilford Woodruff described the event as follows: "If I had not seen him with my own eyes, there is no one that could have convinced me that it was not Joseph Smith, and anyone can testify to this who was acquainted with these two men" (Deseret Evening News, March 12, 1892). At the conclusion of President Young's remarks, Amasa Lyman, W. W. Phelps, and Parley P.
Pratt spoke; then a vote was taken on the question as to whether the saints should have a "guardian" as a leader or the Twelve as the head who rightfully stood in line of authority next to the First Presidency. The hands raised showed a universal vote for the Twelve. In this manner the apostles, who were the rightful authorities according to the revelations of the Lord, were sustained by the vote of the people and by common consent, as the Lord had commanded that all things should be done. The matter of succession was' properly and rightfully decided, and was now binding on the members of the Church (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, page Sidney Rigdon and William Marks were hurt by the action taken that day, and later found themselves outside the favor of the Church.
Rigdon returned to Pittsburgh, Marks drifted away to Beaver Island in Lake Michigan where he joined the followers of James J. Strang.
Both men were excommunicated. Brigham Young, having met the qualifications of leadership, was to go forward with the saints.
Under the power of his office and endowed with wisdom from on high this great leader was to raise "up an ensign on the mountains" (Isa. 18:3) unto which all nations were to flow.
Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, read the question; second, read the assigned part of the Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word" which has been written especially for us in this day. 1. Who took the presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ in the meridian of time after the Savior left the earth? Read Doc. And Cov. Commentary, pages 307-308. 2. How long in advance of the death of the Prophet Joseph did the Lord give word as to how the Church leadership would be carried on? Read Doc. And Cov. 43:1-7; also page 819
Doc. And Cov. Commentary. Doc. And Cov. 90:4; 107:24; 103:15-18. 3. What do you know as to the character of Brigham Young? Read Doc. And Cov. 126, also pages 983-984