[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 44 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Women Are Worshipers of God | Author: Levi Edgar Young]
Women  Are  Worshipers  of  God 
President  Levi  Edgar  Young 
Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
House  and  riches  arc  the  inheritance  from  fathers:   and  a  prudent  wife  is  from 
the  Lord.  (Proverbs  19:14) 
Who  can  find  a  \  irtuous  woman?  For  her  price  is  far  above  rubies. 
(Proverbs  31:10) 
WHEN  Adam  was  sent  to  the  the  principal  motive  in  all  they  did. 
earth  by  his  Father  in  Unshaken  faith  in  God  was  the 
heaven,  he  was  not  alone,  chief  characteristic  of  the  old  patri- 
for  a  woman  became  his  companion  archs  and  prophets.  Faith  came  as  a 
and  her  name  was  Eve.  Both  words  result  of  their  knowing  they  were 
are  Hebrew,  and  Adam  reminds  us  children  of  God. 
of  our  lowliness  and  mortality.  We  When  Moses  received  the  Ten 
know  that  God  gave  him  a  perfect  Gommandments  on  Mount  Sinai, 
human  body,  as  he  did  Eve.  They  he  gave  the  message  of  God  to  the 
were  placed  on  this  earth  in  the  children  of  Israel  who  were  march- 
Garden  of  Eden.  They  had  chil-  ing  to  Jerusalem  and  the  Promised 
dren  and  one  reads  their  history  in  Land.  Women  were  the  first  to 
the  opening  book  of  the  Holy  Bible  pledge  obedience;  the  men  followed, 
and  the  books  that  follow.  say  our  sages.  The  commandments 
'The  first  leaf  of  the  Mosaic  rec-  established  law  as  the  center  of 
ord,"  says  Jean  Paul,  ''has  more  Jewish  life.  One  of  the  most  schol- 
weight  than  all  the  folios  of  men  arly  historians  of  Judaism  is  George 
of  science  and  philosophy."  'And  Foot  Moore  who  tells  that  the 
he  is  right,"  says  Geikie,  "for  we  earliest  expositors  of  the  law  de- 
owe  to  it  the  earliest  and  grandest  clared  that  man  and  woman  are 
revelation  of  that  first  principle  of  equal  before  the  statutes.  The  au- 
all  religion— the  existence,  the  unity,  thority  for  this  statement  is  a  sen- 
the  personality,  and  the  moral  gov-  tence  in  the  fifth  commandment: 
ernment  of  God."  It  is  said  that  "Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother," 
more  books  have  been  written  on  and  in  a  later  statement  found  in 
the  first  chapter  of  Genesis  than  the  book  of  Leviticus,  "Ye  shall  fear 
any  other  subject  known  to  man.  every  man  his  mother,  and  his  fa- 
One  may  well  accept  the  truth  of  ther.  .  .  ."  It  is  written  by  Professor 
this  statement,  for  it  deals  with  God  Moore  that,  "The  legal  status  of 
and  the  creation  and  man's  divine  women  under  Jewish  Law  compares 
origin.  to  its  advantage  with  that  of  con- 
From  the  beginning  of  human  temporary  civilizations  and  repre- 
history,  God  the  Father  in  heaven  sents  a  development  of  the  Biblical 
has  walked  with  and  talked  to  his  legislation  consistently  favorable  to 
children.  In  writing  and  thinking  women."  In  that  far  distant  age, 
about  the  history  of  Israel,  we  must  even  when  Rome  ruled,  Palestine 
always  remember  that  religion  was  was  a  part  of  the  Roman  Empire. 
Page  148

WOMEN  ARE  WORSHIPERS  OF  GOD 
149 
The  Jews  had  their  synagogues  and 
women  took  part  in  holy  service. 
We  learn  that  the  "Mother  Syna- 
gogue" gathered  the  women  togeth- 
er, and  gave  the  women  their  duties. 
To  some  she  gave  cloth  to  sew  that 
no  maiden  in  Israel  might  go  to 
her  husband  lacking  a  bridal  chest. 
A  Jewish  Code  has  come  down  to 
us  giving  a  description  of  the  duties 
of  women.    They  are: 
Feed  the  hungry,  and  give  the  thirsty  to 
drink. 
Clothe  the  naked  and  shelter  the  home- 
less. 
Visit  the  sick,  bury  the  dead  and  give 
comfort  to  the  mourner. 
Support  the  widow  and  instruct  the 
fatherless. 
Ransom  the  captive. 
Make  garments  for  the  orphan  and  pro- 
vide for  the  betrothed  maiden. 
We  are  told  that  legend  throws 
this  code  back  to  Abraham  to  whom 
it  was  revealed.  When  it  was  read 
to  the  people  at  the  foot  of  Mount 
Sinai,  they  exclaimed,  ''We  hear 
and  we  obey." 
COME  of  the  most  beautiful 
stories  of  all  time  are  found  in 
the  Holy  Bible.  In  fact,  the  Bible 
becomes  the  masterpiece  of  history 
in  giving  us  the  story  of  the 
peoples  before  Christ,  our  Redeem- 
er, was  born.  Concerning  women, 
we  find  in  the  Bible  women  of  the 
truest  nobility.  The  Book  of  Ruth 
is  considered  the  most  beautiful 
short  story  ever  written,  and  then 
we  have,  to  mention  a  few  other 
women:  Sarah,  Rebecca,  Rachel, 
Deborah,  Esther,  Martha,  Mary, 
Mary  Magdalene,  Naomi,  and  the 
Queen  of  Sheba.  These  women 
''form  the  most  remarkable  female 
portrait  gallery  in  existence." 
The  beautiful  idyl  known  as  the 
Book  of  Ruth,  is  a  story  of  a  family 
that  lived  in  Bethlehem.  There 
came  a  famine  over  the  land  at  one 
time.  The  fruit  of  the  orchards 
dried  up  and  the  fields  yielded  but 
a  scarcity  of  harvest.  Much  suffer- 
ing came  to  the  people  everywhere. 
One  Elimelech  with  his  wife,  Na- 
omi, went  off  to  greener  fields  into 
the  land  of  Moab.  They  had  two 
sons  who  grew  up  among  the 
strange  people  of  Moab.  In  time 
they  married  two  Moabite  maid- 
ens. Sorrow  came  to  the  house  of 
Elimelech,  for  the  father  and  the 
two  sons  died,  and  the  three  widows 
were  left  unprovided  for  and  un- 
protected. Naomi  decided  to  go 
back  to  her  people  in  Bethlehem. 
She  did  not  expect  the  sons'  wives 
to  go  with  her,  but  Ruth  chose  to 
follow  the  mother,  and  the  two 
made  their  way  around  the  Dead 
Sea,  and  came  to  the  old  home  in 
Bethlehem.  Beautiful  were  the 
words  of  Ruth,  when  her  mother 
Naomi  entreated  her  to  remain  with 
her  people.  "Intreat  me  not  to  leave 
thee,  or  to  return  from  following 
after  thee,"  said  she,  "for  whither 
thou  goest,  I  will  go;  and  where 
thou  lodgest,  I  will  lodge:  thy  peo- 
ple shall  be  my  people,  and  thy  God 
my  God:  Where  thou  diest,  will  I 
die,  and  there  will  I  be  buried." 
Ruth  gleaned  in  the  fields  and 
won  the  heart  of  the  rich  Boaz, 
and  became  his  wife.  Children 
blessed  their  union.  Their  first- 
born, a  boy,  was  named  Obed,  and 
he  became  the  father  of  Jesse,  whose 
son  was  King  David.  "Thus  the 
maiden  of  Moab  became  the  moth- 
er of  many  kings  and  the  ancestress 
of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world."

150  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1957 
TjyiTH  reverent  thought  we  turn  the   divinity  of  man,  and  he  was 
to    the    second    chapter    of  impressed  with  the  great  characters 
St.  Luke  in  the  New  Testament  and  of  history  who  seemed  to  speak  at 
read  about  the  birth  of  Jesus  Christ,  times  the  words  of  God  and  to  en- 
our  Savior.     It  is  another  exquisite  act  God's  holy  purposes.  This  was 
bit  of  history.  the  cause  of  his  unique  greatness. 
Joseph    and    Mary    hved    in    the  When  he  read  about  the  visit  of 
little  town  of  Nazareth.     It  was  a  the  angel  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
strange    circumstance    that    caused  directing  him   in   the  discovery  of 
them  to  go  to  Bethlehem  at  the  the  gold  plates,  he  saw  something 
time  that  Mary  was  to  become  a  of   the   eternal  and   divine   in   the 
mother.    According  to  the  edict  of  story,  and  he  often  quoted  Michael 
the  Emperor  Augustus  Caesar,  all  Angelo:      ''Beauty   cannot  be   sep- 
people  of  Palestine  were  to  go  to  arated  from  eternity."  God  became 
the  place  to  which  by  descent  they  his  immutable  help.    As  one  looks 
belonged,  to  be  enrolled  in  a  gen-  at  the  angel,  one  is  impressed  with 
eral  census.  Joseph  and  Mary  chose  the    thought   that   it   is   a    perfect 
the  city  of  their  fathers  as  the  place  creation,   that  a  truth  was   in  the 
where  they  should  register.  The  city  mind  of  the  sculptor.     It  was  his 
was  full  of  people.    Only  one  place  ardent  faith  and  warmth  of  enthus- 
was  left  to  rest.    ''And  she  brought  iasm  that  made  him  see  something 
forth  her  firstborn  son,  and  wrapped  of  the  divine  in  the  angel  Moroni's 
him  in  swaddling  clothes,  and  laid  coming  to  the  earth, 
him  in  a  manger;  because  there  was 
no    room    for    them    in    the    inn."  ^^T  now  turn  the  key  for  women," 
The  angels  were  round  him  and  his  said  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
birth.  They  worshiped  the  Newborn,  on  the  seventeenth  day  of  March, 
and  said  with  one  accord:   "Glory  1842,  when  he  organized  the  Relief 
to   God   in   the  highest,   on   earth  Society  of  the  Church  in  Nauvoo, 
peace,  good  will  toward  men."  The  and  sent  it  forth  on  its  mission  of 
stories   of  the   Magi   and   the   star  love.     It  was  the   beginning   of  a 
of   Bethlehem,   of   the  angels   and  better  age,  and  a  more  appreciative 
the  shepherds,  as  given  in  the  simple  understanding  of  the  divine  mission 
narrative  of   St.  Matthew   and   St.  of  woman  in  the  world.     She  was 
Luke,  go  to  make  the  story  of  the  to  take  her  place  in  the  work  of 
birth  of  the  Savior  the  most  beauti-  bestowing   upon    mankind   the   in- 
ful  idyl  of  all  literature.  creasing   consciousness   of   the   im- 
Coming  to   our  own  history,   it  mortality  of  spiritual  values.  Wom- 
was   the   mother   of   Cyrus   Dallin  an  was  to  take  her  place  by  the  side 
who  inspired  her  son  to  make  the  of  man  to  play  her  part  in  the  serv- 
angel  on  the  center  tower  of  the  ice  and  calling  of  God.  In  the  early 
Salt  Lake  Temple.  She  told  him  the  days  of  America,  woman  was  the 
story  of  the  coming  from  heaven  helpmate  of  man  in  the  hard  labor 
of    the    angel    Moroni    to    Joseph  of  those  times,  but  in  a  different 
Smith,  and  it  gave  Dallin  the  inspira-  manner  from  that  of  today.  Wives 
tion  for  creating  the  angel  Moroni,  and  daughters  made  clothing  in  the 
It  was  his  nature  to  wonder  about  homes,  helped  to  wield  the  ax,  and

WOMEN  ARE  WORSHIPERS  OF  GOD 
151 
carried  rifles  to  protect  the  village 
and  home.  When  the  husband  was 
absent  in  the  fields,  the  wife  stood 
on  guard  in  the  cabin,  always  with 
eyes  alert  for  prowling  Indians.  The 
frontier  of  America  bred  valiant 
women,  who  were  likewise  heroines 
of  the  spirit  in  which  they  were  no 
less  intrepid. 
Today,  woman  has  been  lifted  out 
of  much  of  her  drudgery  of  a  hun- 
dred years  ago,  and  the  Latter-day 
Saint  people  have  done  a  far-reach- 
ing work  in  establishing  the  proper 
attitude  of  society  toward  the 
"mothers  of  men."  From  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Church  in  1830,  women 
have  been  given  equal  rights  with 
their  husbands  in  the  home  and 
social  group.  In  the  march  of  the 
saints  to  the  West,  women  and 
children  suffered,  and  the  mortality 
among  them  was  large,  but  hus- 
bands and  sons  had  a  sacred  trust 
to  protect  them  and  to  ameliorate 
their  sufferings. 
The  pioneer  women  of  the  Ameri- 
can frontier  were  often  the  leaders 
in  thought  and  promoters  of  educa- 
tional institutions.  A  woman 
opened  the  first  school  in  the  West 
for  the  education  of  Indian  children. 
Mary  Jane  Dilworth  taught  the  first 
school  in  Utah,  and  Camilla  Cobb 
opened  the  first  kindergarten,  which 
was  among  the  first  kindergartens  in
