[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The New | Author: Nibley]
[The New Zealand Mission Preston R. Nibley]

He gets too tired, but he always offers, and then I have to pretend I have a sore knee or something." Jimmy "hurried slowly" into his room. In spite of her sore heart, Millie had to smile, remembering the time several years before when she kept insisting that Jimmy hurry to do something and he had answered, "Oh, all mght if I have to, but Ill hurry very, very slowly." Ever since she had called his reluctant shuffle to do something he *For a biographical sketch of Vera H. Mayhew, see page 179. Page 160 THE SLOW HURRY didn't really want to do "hurrying slowly." Ellen, who at fourteen was increasingly intolerant of the teasing of a younger brother, had taken advantage of Jimmy being away for an evening to invite her friend, Jeanne, to study with her. Now the two girls were seated at the dining-room table with a plate of fruit between them, chewing and giggling more than they were studying. Millie sat in the living room where she could see the girls and acknowledged to herself that she was hurrying slowly with the pile of mending in her lap. HE kept thinking of Jimmy at the party with no dad to run the sack race with him, and wondering how long she was going to be able to keep him going to the parties with some other boy's dad. It wasn't only the parties either. How long would Jimmy think that church was important if his Dad showed by his actions that he didn't think so? She glanced at Ellen's laughing face and thought, I have a better chance with her. Girls are more likely to go along with their mothers. But in her heart Millie knew fear. Jim isn't helping me at all, she thought. I might as well be a widow bringing up my children! Then she was appalled that she even had such a thought. Jim was a sweet husband, a kind and loving father, whenever he was at home. If he were any other kind of man the children would not miss him so much nor be so eager to have him go with them on their small excursions. ''hey had a good home, medical care, and all the things 161 that children their age wanted or needed. She had no right even to think disloyal thoughts. Maybe she wanted too much. Maybe Jim was right, and it took twelve hours a day, seven days a week to be successful in business. Maybe all the things they could have because Jim worked so hard were as important as Jim thought. She stitched the torn neckband in Jimmy's I' shirt and resolved to think of something else. But thoughts once started have a way of coming back and _ back. She remembered her wedding day. They had come out of the Salt Lake 'Temple in the early afternoon and her parents had hurried ahead to get things moving for the reception that night. Jim had guided her a little away from the path and had taken something from his pocket. "With this ring I thee wed," he had said. "Do you mind if I tell you twice that it's forever? Fifty million years and then some more." He had slipped the thin band on her finger, and she had stood silent, smiling with tears in her eyes, remembering all the vows they had taken that day. Milhe twisted the band on her finger. It was worn smooth in sixteen years, and she wondered if the vows hadn't worn a bit smooth, too? Where did we go wrong? She thought. Was it that Jim's family was not quite as religious as hers? In his boyhood Jim had gone to church if he wanted to and stayed home, if that was what he felt like doing. But all the while they had dated he had gone with her to Mutual and to sacrament meeting. She couldn't remember that she had noticed 162 whether his parents were there or not. It was only later when Jim had begun to find excuses for staying home, and she had gone alone that she had noticed that none of Jim's family were there either. Millie remembered the evening the bishop had come to their home a few months after they were martied to ask Jim to be a member of the Sunday School superintendency. Jim had said how busy he was just starting his own real estate business, "I guess Millie will have to do the church work for both of us,' he had said. And that's the way it had been. ELL, she had kept up the church work and had taken the children to all the meetings they were supposed to attend. If Jim made other plans for a Mutual or choir practice night, she had not let them interfere.