[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Hulda | Author: Miner]
Hulda Parker Tlamed General Secretary-Sreasurer of Reliof Society Caroline Eyring Miner Member, General Board, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association HULDA PARKER N January 2, 1957, Sister Hulda Parker was introduced as the new General Secretary-Treasurer of Relief Society and also a member of the general board. This appointment represents for Sister Parker further opportunity for Church service in a life already filled with much service in all of the auxiliaries. She is well prepared for this assignment and through her faithfulness and diligence, her appointment will prove to be a great blessing to the sisters of the Church. At the time of her appointment she was serving on the Special Interest Committee of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Page 154 was secretary to Elder Mark E. Petersen. Born in Richfield, Utah, Sister Parker has descended on her father's side from pioneer ancestors who have known the trials and sacrifices that converts experience and that the early pioneers knew who walked across the plains and built up communities in the valleys of the mountains. Ancestors of her mother's family were converted in Norway. 'The gospel has been endeared to Sister Parker because of this heritage. Her father, Joseph W. Parker, deceased, and her mother, Matilda Olsen Parker, maintained a happy, God-fearing home for their family. Hulda was the youngest child. Her father served as a bishop and a member of the stake presidency, and her mother has been active in stake and ward Relief Society work and in teaching. When a child, Hulda moved to Draper, Utah, where she has lived the greater part of her life. When Sister Parker was twenty, she took a challenging position to teach in the high school in Duchesne, Utah, and taught there for two and one-half years. Her school and Church students everywhere call her blessed. When she was in Washington, D. C., working as secretary to Elder Ezra Taft Benson, she and her co-workers in HULDA PARKER the Church had phenomenal success with a genealogical class—building the membership from a small beginning into a very large and interested group. Other forces and circumstances which have helped to prepare Sister Parker for her present position have been her service in the Canadian Mission field where she was an outstanding missionary and served as supervisor of the mission Sunday Schools and secretary of the mission Relief Society; as secretary to Patniarch Kimball of Mount Jordan Stake; as secretary for several years in the Church offices for Elder Ezra 'Taft Benson and. Elder Mark E. Petersen and others of the General Au- 155 thorities; her training at Brigham Young University; and her service as a member of the M. I. A.

General Board from 1953-57 on the Bee Hive and Special Interest Committees. Sister Parker has a strong testimony of the gospel. She is hardworking, thorough, sincere, conscientious, and efficient. She is pleasant and helpful and loves to work with people. She has accepted this new assignment with true humility and dependence upon the Lord. Those who know her and have worked with her are confident of her success in this great new calling. —>- She Ke amily Unit é PPHERE is no substitute for a righteous home. That may not be so considered in the world, but it is and ought to be in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The family is the unit in the kingdom of God. That we believe, and if we are fortunate enough, through the keeping of the commandments of the Lord, to go back and re-enter the celestial kingdom to dwell with him, we will find that we are his sons and his daughters, that he is in very deed our Father. As Paul has stated it, we are his offspring, and through obedience to every principle of eternal truth we will go back to be his sons and his daughters. "Paul has said and prayed, speaking of the mission. Of Christ and his obedience to him: For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Of whom the whole family inheaven and earth is named (Eph. 3:14-15). "If we get back into that great kingdom after the earth is redeemed, we will find ourselves members of, the great family of God, and he will be our Father. "He said, you know, to John: He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son (Rev. 21:7). —President Joseph Fielding Smith, Conference Address, October 3, 1948, page 152 Mlary Vogel Gaaaen Appointed to General (Board Vesta P.