[Vol44 | March 1957 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Fiction | Title: Herbs]
[Herbs for Modern Cookery— Tarragon Elizabeth Williamson 207]
herbs  (death  shall  quickly  pass  away  as 
dew  disappears  by  the  rays  of  the  morn- 
ing sun),  and  the  earth  shall  cast  out  the 
dead.     (Words  in  parentheses  author's.) 
Other  Old  Testament  prophets 
proclaimed  the  coming  resurrection 
as  the  hope  of  Israel  and  of  all  men. 
Latter-day  Saints  will  remember 
the  prophecies  of  Job  (See  Job 
19:25-27),  who  witnessed  that  he 
would  come  forth  from  the  grave 
as  a  tangible,  immortalized  being; 
of  Ezekiel  (See  Ezekiel  37:1-14), 
who  spoke  of  the  literal  joining  of 
the  physical  body  of  flesh  and 
bones;  and  of  Daniel's  (See  Daniel 
12:2)  testimony  that  both  the  just 
and  the  unjust  would  come  forth  to 
a  resurrected  life. 
Book  of  Mormon  prophets  have 
their  prophecies  (testimonies)  re- 
corded that  we  in  this  dispensation 
would  have  greater  faith  and  under- 
standing of  this  fundamental  sub- 
ject. Abinadi  (Mosiah  16:7-10), 
Amulek  (Alma  11:41-44),  Jacob 
(2  Nephi  9:6-8,  11-13),  Alma 
(40:21-23),  and  Samuel  the  La- 
manite  (Helaman  14:15-16)  pointed 
out  that  by  reason  of  the  mission 
performed  by  Jesus  all  men  would 
receive  their  bodies  again  never 
more  to  be  separated. 
The  predictions  of  these  many 
prophets  concerning  the  resurrec- 
tion, attest,  with  the  many  other 
prophecies  now  fulfilled,  that  God, 
and  not  man,  is  the  sovereign  of 
this  world.  For  those  who  have 
faith  in  the  divine  scriptures,  there 
is  ample  justification  for  believing 
that  God's  promises  will  not  go 
unfulfilled,  as  he  has  made  these 
promises  to  his  ''apostles  and  proph- 
ets."

THE  FAMILY  AND  THE  RESURRECTION 
215 
T  ATTER-day  Saint  parents  and, 
especially,  the  mothers  have  a 
wonderful  opportunity  to  teach 
their  children  the  answers  to  gospel 
questions  raised  by  their  children. 
Just  such  a  question  as  ''Why  did 
Jesus  come  alive  again?"  was  an- 
swered in  a  most  informative  article 
by  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
in  the  August  1954  issue  of  the 
Improvement  Era,  pages  559,  578. 
A  brief  summary  of  that  article  fol- 
lows, in  order  that  those  mothers 
who  do  not  have  access  to  the  article 
may  be  prepared  with  the  answer 
to  this  question: 
All  of  us  lived  as  spirit  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
before  we  were  born  into  this  life. 
There  we  learned  that  this  earth- 
life  was  to  be  a  probationary  place 
where  we  would  be  tested  and  given 
the  privilege  of  walking  by  faith 
and,  if  faithful  in  keeping  the  Lord's 
commandments,  we  might  become 
like  our  Father  in  heaven.  Adam 
and  Eve,  our  first  parents,  were  not 
subject  to  death  when  placed  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden,  and  they  would 
have  remained  there,  without  chil- 
dren, forever,  if  they  did  not  become 
mortal,  as  we  are  today  (2  Nephi 
2:22-25;  Moses  5:11).  After  their 
transgression,  they  were  driven  from 
the  Garden  and  the  children  born 
to  them  inherited  death.  Thus 
everyone  of  us  would  have  come 
under  the  power  of  Satan  after 
death,  if  there  had  been  no  atone- 
ment. If  we  were  not  restored  to 
life  our  spirits  would  become  sub- 
ject to  Satan  forever,  and  our  bodies 
would  have  remained  in  the  grave 
without  end  (2  Nephi  9:6-13). 
Under  the  merciful  plan  of  sal- 
vation prepared  in  the  pre-earth  life, 
Jesus  became  the  one  who  would 
redeem  mankind  from  their  helpless 
state.  It  was  necessary  that  Jesus 
come  to  this  earth,  having  the  power 
over  death,  by  his  being  born  of 
our  Eternal  Father,  and  at  the  same 
time  capable  of  dying  because  his 
mother,  Mary,  was  a  mortal  being 
like  us.  Jesus  was  different  from  us 
in  being  the  only  one  who  had  such 
power  over  death  and,  therefore, 
capable  of  taking  up  his  life  again 
as  a  resurrected  being  (John  5:26-27; 
10:17-18). 
By  shedding  his  blood  on  the 
cross  Jesus  could  redeem  us.  After 
he  came  forth  from  the  tomb  he 
had  power  to  bring  every  person 
from  the  grave.  Following  his  own 
resurrection  on  that  first  Easter  day, 
Jesus  did  open  the  graves  of  the 
righteous  saints  who  had  lived  be- 
fore the  time  of  his  crucifixion 
(Mt.  27:52-53). 
President  Smith  concluded  his 
article  by  stating  that  all  teachers  of 
children  should  have  ''the  correct 
understanding  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
resurrection,  and  how  we  became 
redeemed  through  the  shedding  of 
the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ." 
/^NE  of  the  most  beautiful  and 
satisfying  doctrines  for  Latter- 
day  Saint  mothers  as  revealed 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
is  that  of  the  perpetuity  of  family 
associations  in  the  future  life.  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  understand  that  the 
next  step  in  our  eternal  progression 
is  the  spirit  world  to  which  Jesus 
went  at  death  (I  Peter  3:18-20)  and 
where  the  spirits  of  all  men  go 
(Alma  40:11-14).  The  spirit  world 
is  a  place  of  further  education  where 
opportunities  for  improvement  for 
both  the  righteous  and  the  wicked 
are  available.    The  spirit  of  the  de-

216 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1957 
parted  child  goes  to  that  world  as 
well  as  the  adult  who  dies  at  an 
advanced  age.  Both  are  adult  in 
form,  however,  regardless  of  the  size 
of  the  physical  body  at  death  (Gos- 
pel Doctiine,  6th  ed.,  page  455). 
This  fact  concerning  the  deceased 
child  does  not  allow  for  the  belief 
of  some  Latter-day  Saint  mothers 
that  they  will  rear  their  children  in 
the  spirit  world.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  taught  that  the  ful- 
fillment of  this  promise  will  come 
in  the  resurrection,  as  expressed  in 
these  words  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith : 
Joseph  Smith  declared  that  the  mother 
who  laid  down  her  little  child,  being  de- 
prived of  the  privilege,  the  joy,  and  the 
satisfaction  of  bringing  it  up  to  manhood 
or  womanhood  in  this  world,  would,  after 
the  resurrection,  have  all  the  joy,  satisfac- 
tion, and  pleasure,  and  even  more  than 
it  would  have  been  possible  to  have  had 
in  mortality,  in  seeing  her  child  grow  to 
the  full  measure  of  the  status  of  its 
spirit  {Gospel  Doctrine,  6th  ed.,  p.  453; 
Cf.  D.H.C.,  IV:555-557).  (Words  in 
italics  the  author's) 
It  seems  most  appropriate  at  this 
point  to  quote  from  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  as  given  above  in 
the  account  of  his  vision  of  the 
resurrection,  ''All  your  losses  will  be 
made  up  to  you  in  the  resurrection, 
provided  you  continue  faithful.  By 
the  vision  of  the  Almighty  I  have 
seen  it."  Consistent  with  this  teach- 
ing are  the  words  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  setting  forth  the 
truth  that  the  resurrected  body 
though  differing  in  size,  as  we  dif- 
fer here  in  mortality,  shall  be 
glorious,  whether  old  or  young: 
In  order  for  you  to  recei\e  your  chil- 
dren to  yourselves  you  must  have  a 
promise — some  ordinance;  some  blessing, 
in  order  to  ascend  above  principalities,  or 
else  it  may  be  an  angel.  They  must  arise 
just  as  they  died;  we  can   there  hail  our 
lovely  infants  with  the  same  glory — the 
same  loveliness  in  the  celestial  glory, 
where  they  all  enjoy  alike.  They  differ  in 
stature,  in  size,  the  same  glorious  spirit 
gives  them  the  likeness  of  glory  and  bloom; 
the  old  man  with  his  silvery  hairs  will 
glory  in  bloom  and  beauty.  No  man  can 
describe  it  to  you — no  man  can  write  it 
{D.H.C.,  VI:366). 
It  was  the  testimony  of  Alma  that 
as  resurrected  beings  we  shall  have 
perfect  bodies  because  the  disfigure- 
ments of  the  flesh  will  be  removed. 
This  assurance  is  another  phase  of 
the  resurrection  understood  by  the 
ancient  prophets  and  proclaimed 
anew  by  our  inspired  leaders  of  this 
dispensation  that  provides  comfort 
for  all. 
The  soul  shall  be  restored  to  the  body, 
and  the  body  to  the  soul;  yea,  and  every 
limb  and  joint  shall  be  restored  to  its 
body;  yea,  even  a  hair  of  the  head  shall  not 
be  lost;  but  all  things  shall  be  restored  to 
their  proper  and  perfect  frame  (Alma 
40:23). 
In  bearing  witness  of  the  redeem- 
ing power  of  Jesus,  who  was  yet  to 
come  in  the  flesh,  Amulek  gave  this 
eloquent  testimony  relative  to  the 
perfected,  resurrected  body,  and  the 
equally  profound  truth  that  when 
we  are  resurrected  we  shall  remain 
forever  united,  both  spirit  and  body: 
Now,  there  is  a  death  which  is  called  a 
temporal  death;  and  the  death  of  Christ 
shall  loose  the  bands  of  this  temporal 
death,  that  all  shall  be  raised  from  this 
temporal  death. 
The  spirit  and  the  body  shall  be  re- 
united again  in  its  perfect  form;  both 
limb  and  joint  shall  be  restored  to  its 
proper  frame,  even  as  we  now  are  at  this 
time;  and  we  shall  be  brought  to  stand 
before  God,  knowing  even  as  we  know 
now,  and  have  a  bright  recollection  of  all 
our  guilt. 
Now,  this  restoration  shall  come  to  all, 
both  old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free, 
both  male  and  female,  both  the  wicked 
and  tlic  righteous;  and  c\'cn  there  shall 
not  be  so  much  as  a  hair  of  their  heads