[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 21 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Robinson]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME About Grandmothers Linnie F. Robinson]
good  features  of  his  farm,  and  after 
these  had  been  written  up  in  inter- 
esting language,  the  advertising  man 
checked  with  the  farmer  by  letting 
him  read  what  had  been  written. 
When  the  farmer  read  about  all  of 
the  wonderful  features  of  his  farm, 
he  became  so  excited  that  he  would 
not  sell  it  for  any  price.  The  same 
thing  happens  when  we  sufficiently 
expose  people  to  the  gospel. 
When  I  was  on  a  mission  many 
years  ago  I  memorized  the  Fourth 
Section  of  The  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. The  Fourth  Section  consists 
of  only  seven  sentences,  made  up 
of  145  words.  You  can  read  the 
entire  Section  in  three-quarters  of  a 
minute.  I  thought  I  understood 
everything  about  the  Fourth  Sec- 
tion, and  then  one  day  I  heard 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
talk  to  a  group  of  young  mission- 
aries about  the  Fourth  Section  of 
The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  as 
the  light  of  his  experience  and  in- 
terest shone  on  the  Fourth  Section, 
I  felt  a  new  influence  in  it  that  I 
had  never  known  before. 
Of  course  it  sometimes  takes  time 
for  this  interest  to  mature.  That  is 
why  re-calls  are  so  often  necessary. 
If  you  need  to  call  back  a  few  times, 
the  increased  exposure  makes  it  so 
much  the  better.  Remember  that 
what  you  are  doing  is  very  important, 
and  your  objective  is  not  merely  to 
get  a  subscription  —  it  is  to  get  this 
Magazine  and  a  desire  to  read  it  into 
the  hearts  of  people  in  such  a  way 
that  they  will  read  it  religiously  and 
profitably  every  month. 
No  devoted,  effective  effort  is 
ever  lost.  It  has  been  said  that  the 
smallest  bird  cannot  alight  on  the 
greatest  oak  without  sending  a  vi- 
bration to  the  furthermost  root  end. 
Success  is  accumulative.  I  once 
heard  a  man  telling  about  the  num- 
ber of  calls  he  made  when  he  was 
courting  his  wife.  Someone  said  to 
him,  ''Why  didn't  you  just  call  on 
her  once?"  I  suppose  that  when 
some  of  you  were  being  courted,  he 
had  to  come  back  as  many  as  two  or 
three  times  before  he  got  the  job 
done. 
3.  Inefiective  Presentation 
Number  three  of  the  big  four  is 
an  ineffective  presentation.  Some 
procedures  get  better  results  than 
others.  You  may  be  interested  in 
an  ineffective  presentation  made  by 
Moses.  When  Moses  started  across 
the  desert  leading  this  great  horde 
of  Egyptian  slaves,  he  needed  some- 
one who  knew  the  desert  to  act  as 
their  guide.  There  was  a  man  liv- 
ing on  the  edge  of  the  desert  by 
the  name  of  Hobab.  Moses  said  to 
him,  ''Hobab,  come  with  us  and  we 
will  do  thee  good."  But  Hobab  said, 
"I  will  not  go."  Even  Moses  got 
himself  turned  down  because  he 
said  the  wrong  thing.  But  Moses 
needed  Hobab,  and  so  he  made  an- 
other try  with  a  different  approach. 
This  time  he  said,  "Hobab,  come 
with  us  that  thou  mayest  be  as  eyes 
to  us  in  the  wilderness."  That  is  an 
entirely  different  appeal,  and  almost 
before  the  words  were  out  of  his