[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
General  Secretary-Treasurer  HuJcIa  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  go\erning  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook:  of  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by   Hazel   K.   Woolley 
WEST  CENTRAL  STATES  MISSION,  GLENDIVE  BRANCH   (MONTANA) 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  FASHION  SHOW,  June  1961 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  June  Hennebry;  Kathi  and  Cheri;  Dorothy  Getz;  Cheri 
and  Mary  Anderson. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Helen  Ness;  Joy  Jensen;  Beatrice  Mitchell;  Bernice  Orcutt; 
Wanda  White;  Edythe  Brown;  Marjorie  Zolman. 
Hazel  K.  Woolley,  President,  West  Central  States  Mission  Relief  Society,  reports 
that  this  was  the  first  fashion  show  presented  by  the  Glendive  Branch  Relief  Society. 
Each  member  who  sewed  a  dress  or  a  suit  for  herself  also  modeled  it.  The  show 
featured  two  mothers  and  daughters  numbers.  The  objectives  of  the  sewing  program, 
Sister  Woolley  explains,  are  to  stimulate  a  desire  among  the  sisters  to  sew  for  them- 
selves and  their  families,  thus  developing  and  improving  their  talents;  to  promote  a 
closer  feeling  of  sisterhood  by  working  together,  helping  others,  and  sharing  ideas; 
and  also,  by  such  means,  to  help  cut  expenses  in  the  family  budget. 
The  narrating  for  the  fashion  show  was  done  by  Edythe  Brown.  Following  the 
show,  a  social  hour  was  enjoyed  and  refreshments  were  served  under  the  direction  of 
Myrtle  Batesole. 
Page  222

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
223 
Photograph  submitted  by  Donna   T.   Smart 
EMIGRATION  STAKE    (SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH)    LUNCHEON  HELD   IN 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  BUILDING,  May  25,  1961 
Left  to  right:  Louise  W.  Madsen,  Second  Counselor  in  the  General  Presidency  of 
Relief  Society;  Dean  B.  Norberg,  former  president,  Emigration  Stake  Relief  Society; 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  General  President  of  Relief  Societ)^;  Wilburn  C.  West,  former  Presi- 
dent Emigration  Stake,  now  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission;  Donna  T.  Smart, 
President,  Emigration  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Sister  Smart  reports:  "For  the  recently  appointed  stake  board,  this  luncheon  and 
reception  was  a  successful  and  enjoyable  endeavor.  We  planned  and  cooked  for  some 
220  people.  All  of  the  members  of  Sister  Norberg's  recently  released  board,  with  one 
exception,  were  present  to  be  feted  and  honored.  The  members  of  the  General  Board 
of  Relief  Society  who  reside  in  our  stake,  six  in  number,  were  present,  with  the 
exception  of  Sister  Wimiiefred  S.  Manwaring,  who  was  attending  a  Relief  Society 
convention.  We  were  highly  honored  and  favored  by  the  presence  of  General  President 
Belle  S.  Spafford  and  her  Counslor  Louise  W.  Madsen. 
"In  the  true  spirit  of  Relief  Society,  some  of  our  talented  sisters  added  musically 
to  the  afternoon.  The  combination  of  piano,  two  violins,  and  flute  was  unusual  and 
lovely.  The  Singing  Mothers,  directed  by  the  new  chorister  Maurine  Lyman,  beautifully 
presented  three  numbers.  The  highlight  of  the  afternoon  was  the  talk  by  Helen 
Spencer  Williams,  a  member  of  our  stake,  who  spoke  of  the  faith-promoting  experiences 
in  the  restoration  of  the  Bee  Hive  House.  Sister  Williams  was  a  member  of  the  com- 
mittee which  supervised  the  work  of  restoration. 
"In  keeping  with  the  pioneer  theme,  we  draped  the  tables  in  blue  and  white 
checked  cloths  —  made  by  us  —  and  we  used  gold  accents  for  our  Relief  Society  colors, 
as  well  as  pioneer  dolls  for  centerpiece  interest.  Our  serving  girls  were  dressed  in 
checked  gingham  aprons  and  sunbonnets. 
"We  were  grateful  for  our  training  and  traditions  in  Relief  Society,  as  we  planned, 
sewed,  decorated,  cooked,  and  programmed  this  first  real  activity  of  our  new  stake 
board.    The  helpful,  willing  spirit  of  our  sisters  in  the  gospel  is  truly  inspiring."