[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Gubler]
[The Lamplighters AUce Gubler]

"That you shall have, my young man, if you will help Mother get the children ready for supper."' Eleanor playfully ruffled Jess' hair. "Barbara, you can help me here in the kitchen, okay?" When dinner was ready, Eleanor put on a fresh print dress, combed her black hair, and lightly touched her lips with lipstick. She was excited and happy. Her cheeks had a rosy glow. That night when Chris entered his home, soft candlelight surrounded him, and soft music played in the background. 'In one fleeting glance he took in his surroundings, and then his eyes rested upon Eleanor. 195 "What's the occasion?" He couldn't hide the surprise upon his face. "Are we expecting company for supper?" Eleanor took her husband to one side, "Chris, I feel that I owe you an apology for acting the way that I have. I'm very pleased that the Lord wants you for his work. I know that I behaved very badly, and well — this is just my way of showing you how wrong I was." 'There were tears glistening in Eleanor's eyes. Chris put his arms about his wife. "Don't think I don't understand what you were going through. I just know that everything will turn out fine. I didn't want to turn down such a wonderful calling for your sake and the children's sake. I know that the Lord will guide us and bless us." "I know it, too, Chris," Eleanor said, squeezing her husband's hand. "With you by my side, Eleanor, I feel even more assured. I'm so thankful for you." Chris' expression showed his humility and love. Jess marched into the room, stood before his parents, and placed his hands upon his hips. "What we want to know is, what's the surprise for Daddy? No one seems to know around here." "Yes, they do, dear. Your father and I know, and someday soon we will tell you children." "Oh," Jess said, satisfied with his mother's answer. "Can't we eat now, Mom? 'That chocolate cake sure does look good, and I'm too hungry to care about anybody's surprise." Eleanor and Chris laughed as they clasped hands and. Together walked into the dining room to join their children at the table.