[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 25 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

The Relief Society Magazine was introduced to me by Elder Dale E. Skinner when he taught me the gospel. Ever since then I have been attracted by the pretty covers of the Magazine and the nice stories. Most of all, I have been uplifted several times by President Belle S. Spafford's messages. When Elder Skinner finished his mission and went home, his loving mother gave me the Magazine as a Christmas gift for one whole year. And today I have just received a note saying that one more year is given to me by her. I have never received a better Christmas gift than this one. What a help and a blessmg the Magazine has been to me! It has been a constant source of inspiration in my task as a Relief Society teacher.
—Sheila Tseng
Hong Kong, China

Since the publication of my poem "Idyll Moment" in the February 1961 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, several of my parents' friends have told them that the verses were used at programs honoring elderly people, or at golden weddings. 'Thanks so much for giving us this pleasure. I realize more than ever to what extent parents live vicariously in their children, and how much we are obliged not to fail them.
—Marie C. Webb
Provo, Utah

I have only been taking The Relief Society Magazine for the past three months, but I really enjoy it and look forward to receiving it, especially since we live so far from the church, about twenty miles. My husband is in the service, and we cannot attend church as often as we would like to. 'The Magazine helps to make up for this. I love the covers on i Magazine. The November 1961 covr (from a painting of Nauvoo, Illinois) was especially beautiful. I enjoy the poetry in the Magazine very much.
—Doris Moore
Rocky Point, New York

I] just want to take a minute and put in a good word for The Relief Society Magazine. Someone sent me a_ subscription when I began my mission over eighteen months ago. I was so impressed with the cover pictures that I began cutting them out and giving them to contacts. Then I started glancing at the poetry and some of the articles. Then I was sold! You certainly have a publication to be proud of. It is a testimony in itself. I am sure the Lord is pleased with the missionary labor it performs, and with the high class literature it provides for the women of his Church.
—FElder Farrell M. Smith
Mettmann, Germany

I am delighted with the first prize story "Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things" (January 1962, by Mary Ek Knowles). Mary's mother, Nellie Worthen Ek, was my dear friend and lived with me as a girl. May I also say how much I enjoyed the very unusual and significant poem "The Other Mother" by Miranda Snow Walton (first prize poem, January 1962). I have read this poem to many of my friends over the telephone.
—Mrs. Edith Hunter Lambert
Salt Lake City, Utah

Congratulations on the new look the January issue has. It hardly seemed that the Magazine could be improved. It has become an accepted part of my _ life. Thanks, also, for the wonderful pictures of places I have seen. Hardly an issue comes that I cannot say to my husband, "Do you recognize this?" Then each page unfolds a message, for which I am grateful.
—Mrs. Zerelda Sapp
Fort Jones, California

I surely appreciate the beautiful covers on the Magazine. Our sisters enjoy the stories, poems, and especially the lessons.
—June N. Ashton
Poplar, Montana