[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Red | Author: Bantz]
[The Red Cross — A Universal Symbol Fred A. Bantz]

Night — rain before the golden morning charm Of jeweled droplets glowing... The caress Of crisp, cool air, and sky blue loveliness, The soft serenity that follows storm. With winging birds, my heart is lifted high Rain — harbinger of spring — gift of the sky. Page I72 The Young Child and His Books May C. Hammond Assistant Professor of Education, Brigham Young University There was a child went forth every day, And the first object he look'd upon, that object he became, And that object became part of him for the day or a certain part of the day, Or for many years or stretching cycles of years. —From Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman ALT Whitman wrote these \\) words many years ago. Modern educators appreciate their significance perhaps more than did the generation who first heard them. Whitman, in_ this poem, enumerates the many things that become part of this child. He names the parents, the teachers, "all the changes of city and country." He does not specifically mention books, but no one familiar with the ways of a child with a book will doubt that books, also, become part of that child "who goes forth every day." Another poet, Dylan Thomas, made the statement that he was as much a part of the books he had read as of the food he had eaten. Next to people, books offer the most satisfactory companionship and, as do people, they undoubtedly do much to influence the lives of children. A home without books can, indeed, be a_ barren place. Books, in a home where there are children, should be considered as necessary as are the dishes on the table or the food in the refrigerator, and they should be taken as much for granted. The early experiences of children are adult controlled; their experiences with books depend almost entirely upon the parents, and chilPage 174 dren's attitudes toward books are usually the parents' attitudes. If we want children to be receptive and eager toward books, we must, ourselves, show that feeling. Clifton Fadiman, in a recent newspaper article, expressed his satisfaction that the good old custom of grandmother's day, that of families reading together in the home, is becoming popular again. He tells us that mothers, and even fathers, are setting aside a few minutes each day for family reading. Many parents have always recognized the value of reading to children; but the busy lives they and the children lead have often made this valuable home experience seem almost impossible. Young parents often ask, "When should one begin reading to a child, and how long should the reading continue?" Children as young as one year enjoy the rhythm and the sound of words as the mother reads to them. Mother Goose rhymes are excellent material for these first experiences. As soon as the baby can recognize familiar objects in pictures, he is ready for his first picture book. The Baby Book of the Little Golden series is an excellent first book. At two years, many children are THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS Hal Rumel THE WONDER AND DELIGHT OF MOTHER'S READING 175 The Cecil E. Lloyd family, left to right: Susan; Elizabeth; Luacine S. Lloyd, the mother; Jennifer; Tracy, holding baby Margaret. Ready for simple picture books with some text. Marjorie Flack's Ask Mr. Bear is a good example. At three or four years, children enjoy being a member of a family reading group, if the age spread of the group is not more than three or four years. For young children the reading period should not be too long. Older children may enjoy a reading period as long as forty-five minutes. A parent should never read to children if he (or she) is "bored" with the reading. Children are very quick at catching the mood of the reader. An adult should be able to read a beautiful picture book to children with something of a child's wonder and delight. ARENTS may make a special occasion of bringing home a beautiful book. It may be a birthday or a Christmas present. It may even be a surprise "unbirthday' present. Three or four good books a year will soon build a library for a growing family. It is a mistake to 176 provide too many books for the young child. It is much better to have a few really good books which may be read over and over and looked at again and again. Children should grow up with books that are their own, and these books should be good books. Parents often say, "But good books are so expensive." This is true, but if parents can afford a doll or a toy truck at $9.95 and more, surely a good book, now and then, should not be considered an extravagance. For the parent who would like to build a home library but feels inadequate in choosing books, we offer a few suggestions. Choosing a book for a_ child should be a very special matter. We cannot generalize too specifically about age interests. Each child is an individual and should be treated as such. The quality of the book should be high, but being of high quality does not necessarily imply that it is a "classic.'" Perhaps it has not lived long enough. Being new or old makes no difference to children. Peter Rabbit, now nearly 'sixty years old, is still, for young children, as fresh as the dawn. In choosing a new book, however, one should be sure that glitter and sophistication do not take the place of the real and lasting qualities that distinguish fine books. Hans Christian Andersen's story of the jeweled bird and the little brown singer who was the real nightingale, should teach us that in choosing books, as in choosing other values in life, we must "lose not the nightingale." The child's first book is, of course, the picture book. When confronted with the hundreds of books in this category, in book stores, in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 drugstores, even in supermarkets, the average parent is often totally at sea. At this age, the child's taste in stories and in pictures is not very discriminatory. But this is the golden age for beginning to develop taste and, while some of the inexpensive little books usually brought home are illustrated by good artists, even in selecting these, a parent should have some standards of selection, if she is to avoid the trivial and the worthless. In the past few decades the picture book has come into its own. Many foremost artists and illustrators have turned their attention to © illustrating books for children. Such I well-known artists as Lynd Ward, Robert McCloskey, Louis Slobodkin, Ludwig Bemelmans, and many others are writing and illustrating — children's books. From these artists and others, then, we expect good art and we expect, also, qualities that have special appeal to children. Picture book must be judged from two aspects — the pictures and the text. Good pictures will often sell a book of poor quality, while a fine story may go unnoticed if it lacks appropriate illustrations. Certain qualities in the picture have proved universally popular. Children want an honest interpretation of the text. The technique used will vary according to the nature of the text. An honest interpretation does not imply that the picture must be realistic. The lovely pictures by Marcia Brown for Cinderella are not realistic, but neither is the story. The fairy-like quality of the pictures is in perfect harmony with the story. THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS Children like the pictures to be closely synchronized with the text. Pictures are usually on one page, with the text on the opposite page. As the child hears the story of the old man's search for a cat in Wanda Gag's Millions of Cats, he delights in the rhythmic pictures that show exactly what is taking place as the story unfolds. Children like humor, but the humor must be on their level of understanding. A book often contains humor for adults as well as for children. Ferdinand, by Munro Leaf, is a good example. In reading the book'to children, the reader will note that children take, in all seriousness, many situations that adults find humorous. Children do not respond to satire or to the subtle situations that adults find so funny. Children want action. Just as they demand something doing all the time in the story, they also like pictures that show this life and action. The vigorous, swirling movement in the pictures, as Mary Ann goes to work in Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, constitutes a great deal of this book's appeal. Children like a storytelling quality that enables them to read the book over and over through the pictures, after having once heard the story. In Angus and the Ducks by Marjorie Flack, the child is never in doubt as to the development of the Story. 'The pictures tell it almost better than the words. Children like detail, but not so much detail that it becomes clutter. The pictures must be kept clear and simple with, perhaps, some little "lovable" details that a child will want to examine again and again. I Of course, children delight in bright colors, but they will settle for black and white, if the other qualities are present. Millions of Cats needs no color to give it popularity. Make Way for Ducklings is very satisfactory, with its action and humor and its lovely brown tones. HE text is fully as important as the pictures and demands as careful evaluation. The plot is usually quite simple but, at the same time, it may involve such essential meanings of life as security, love, approval, and acceptance. The plot is written with drama, the words are expressive and are fraught with meaning. 'The story must sound well. It will be read over and over, and the words must produce a thythmic whole that matches the text. Reading should be effortless because the text moves smoothly. The development should be crystal clear with few sidetracks and no moralizing. 'The plot should be lively and full of action and, in place of moralizing, there is often that bit of "lighthearted wisdom" so beautifully exemplified in Peter Rabbit and in the more modern Finders Keepers. Children get the point without obvious moralizing. Children want, first of all, keen enjoyment in their stories. Generally speaking, the story should have a happy ending. But children must learn to cope with disappointments and unhappiness, so an occasional story with a little sadness children will take in their stride. "The Little Match Girl" and "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" are popular in spite of the sadness. When the sadness is so prolonged as to become 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 morbid, as in Oscar Wilde's beautiful that produce fears — mild shivers, story "The Happy Prince," we can _ perhaps, but not fears. Well decide to leave it for older chilPaul Engle expresses so beaudren and adults. Tifully, in this short poem about his One final word seems advisable. Own daughter, the way of a child Children should not have stories with a book. We share it with you. Books were the actual world she touched and knew Where trolls were real and friendly goblins hid Under the bed, and green dragons blew Smoke from their mouths and talked the way she did. Wolves between the covers of a book Wandered all day their safe, familiar land, Brown squirrels came down from colored trees and took Imaginary acorns from her hand. She became those books. She was the girl Locked in the high tower in the gray Scotch highlands. She was the fisher's wife with a crown of pearl. And when they told her of the shipwrecked man Named Crusoe, she became herself the island, The beach, the footprint where the stranger ran. —(Copyright 1945 by Paul Engle and reprinted from American Child, by Paul Engle, by permission of Random House, Inc.) BIBLIOGRAPHY Of Books for Young Children ANDERSEN, Hans Curistian: The Steadfast Tin Soldier, ill. By Marcia Brown, Scribner, 6-10. The Emperor's New Clothes, ill. By Virginia Lee Burton, Houghton, 7-10. The Ugly Duckling, ill. By Johannes Larsen, Macmillan, 6-9. ArBuTHNOT, May Hix, compiler: Time for Fairy Tales, Scott, Foresman. Time for True Tales, Scott, Foresman. BANNERMAN, HELEN: Little Black Sambo, ill. By the author, Lippincott, 4-7. BeMELMans, Lupwic: Madeline, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. Madeline's Rescue, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. Brown, Marcaret Wise: The Runaway Bunny, ill. By Clement Hurd, Harper, 4-6. Burton, Vircinia Lee: Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, ill by the author, Houghton, 5-8. The Little House, ill. By the author, Houghton, 5-8. Ets, Marre Hatz: Play With Me, ill. By the author, Viking, 3-6.: Mr. Penny, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-8.: Nine Days to Christmas, ill. By the author, Viking, 9-12. Fracx, Marjorte: Ask Mr. Bear, ill. By the author. Macmillan, 3-7.: Angus and the Ducks, ill. By the author, Doubleday, 4-7. Wait for William, ill. By the author and R. A. Halberg, Houghton, 4-8.: The Story About Ping, ill. By Kurt Wiese, Viking, 5-8. THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS 179 Gac, Wanpa: Millions of Cats, ill. By the author, Coward-McMann, 5-8. Tales from Grimm, trans. And ill. By Wanda Gag, Coward-McCann. Gramatky, Harpie: Little Toot, ill. By the author, Putnam, 5-7. Kiptinc, Rupyarp: Just So Stories, ill. By Nicholas Mardvinoff, Garden City, 8-12. Lear, Munro: The Story of Ferdinand, ill. By Robert Lawson, Viking, 5-. Lipkinp, WiLu1AM: Finders Keepers, ill. By Nicholas Mordvinoff (Will and Nicholas), Harcourt, 4-7. McCtosxey, Ropert: Make Way for Ducklings, ill. By the author, Viking, 4-8. One Morning in Maine, ill. By the author, Viking, 3-7. Time of Wonder, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. McDonatp, Go. PEeN (pseud.): Little Lost Lamb, ill. By Leonard Weisgard, Doubleday, 4-8. Mine, A. A.: The World of Pooh, ill. By Ernest Shepherd, Dutton, 8-12. Potter, Beatrix: The Tale of Peter Rabbit, ill. By the author, Warne, 3-8. Rey, H. A.: Curious George, ill. By the author, Houghton, 4-8. Seuss, Dr. (THEODORE GEISsEL): The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins, ill. By the author, Vanguard, 5-10. On Beyond Zebra, ill. By the author, Random, 5-10.