[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Where Your Treasure Is | Author: Sterling W. Sill]
"WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS"
Sterling W. Sill

And while the financial consideration involved in subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine is not a great one, yet there are many times when your failure or success will depend upon your money philosophy. Of course your responsibility as Magazine agent is not merely to collect the money — it also includes making sure that the Magazine will be fully utilized.

THINK of the possible effect that your personal contact may have in the lives of the women of the Church as a result of your talking to them about the educational, religious, and other advantages of reading. One of the things that we need more than most other things is to learn how to get the most practical use out of ideas and ideals — available through the printed page.

Woodrow Wilson once said, "The greatest ability of the American people is their ability to resist instruction." 'That is also one of our most serious problems in the Church, and I suppose that most of us as individuals have our full share of that unfortunate talent. One of the greatest opportunities of a mother is to get the nght kind of ideas and ambitions into actual operation, and you can make them available in permanent, usable form.

I have attended a great many conventions over a long period, and almost always when something is said that is thought to be important, someone asks, "Couldn't we have a copy of that? Couldn't it be written down so that we can go over it and absorb it and think about it and improve our lives by it?"

The Lord has always seemed very anxious that important things should be written down. He said to John the Revelator, "Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter." In giving the vision known as the 76th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord repeated on four different occasions in verses 28, 49, 80, and 115, that Joseph and Oliver should write the vision while they were still in the spirit. And the Lord wants you to make great experiences and great ideas available to others through this Magazine.

The best way to get people to subscribe to and read the Magazine is in this face-to-face kind of contact. The doctor can carry the spirit of health right with him as he sees his patients face to face. He would not be nearly so effective if he merely called them on the telephone or put an ad in the newspaper or made a public health announcement. Most of the important things that happen to us come by means of personal contact.

A genealogical worker once called on me and started me on the idea of doing temple work. In a personal interview, Elder Adam Bennion helped me to develop a reading habit when I thought I was too busy to read. In your subscription-getting interview, you can plant some seeds that will change the lives and habits of people.

[* I were going to work in the Relief Society and had my choice of assignments, I can think of no assignment that I would rather have than to be Magazine representative. I was the bishop for a number of years, and I never felt that I ever did much good merely announcing the page of the song, etc. If I ever did any good, it was out in the homes of people who were in need of help.

Of course every assignment in the Church is important. A teacher has a great calling. She may have ten or twenty people in her class. But if you sell a Relief Society Magazine subscription, by this one act you may make available an entire Magazine full of articles every month for twelve months to a number of people. Think how long it would take a teacher to get over that much material. But, in addition, your subscriber has a permanent word-for-word possession, so that she can come back to these good ideas again and again.

Now, how do you make a sale? Of course that depends to some extent on each individual situation. But the first step is to believe in the Magazine. About the most marvelous power that I know anything about is the power of conviction. If you sincerely believe something, those with whom you talk will believe it also, and they will be changed and benefited by your faith. But you must first get a firm conviction in your own heart of the worthwhileness of what vou are doing before you can do very much for anyone else.

For your consideration, let me give you "The Big Four'' of success, negatively stated. 'That is, there are only four reasons why you may not succeed. 'They are as follows:

You may have —
. An inadequate prospect.
An insufficient exposure.
An ineffective presentation.
An indifferent representative

WN eH

1. An Inadequate Prospect

There may be some people who could just not possibly be interested, though you will find very few of these "china-egg prospects" in your work. Most of your interviews will hatch. President John Taylor once said that there was no one who could not be appealed to by the gospel, if the nght person made the right approach at the right time.

2. Insufficient Exposure

It takes time to get a mind properly warmed up. To some extent everyone resembles a thermometer. If you ask them to subscribe when they are thirty-two degrees below zero, they will decline. But their situation can be changed by building a fire under their interest. Don't just assume that the advantages of the Magazine are clear to them. Go over the various points of value with them. Minds can be changed.

Oscar Hammerstein once said, "A heart can inspire other hearts with its fires I once heard of a farmer who wanted to sell his farm. He hired an advertising man to write the copy for the paper. 'The farmer told the advertising man about the various good features of his farm, and after these had been written up in interesting language, the advertising man checked with the farmer by letting him read what had been written. When the farmer read about all of the wonderful features of his farm, he became so excited that he would not sell it for any price.

The same thing happens when we sufficiently expose people to the gospel. When I was on a mission many years ago I memorized the Fourth Section of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'The Fourth Section consists of only seven sentences, made up of 145 words. You can read the entire Section in three-quarters of a minute. I thought I understood everything about the Fourth Section, and then one day I heard President Joseph Fielding Smith talk to a group of young missionaries about the Fourth Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, and as the light of his experience and interest shone on the Fourth Section, I felt a new influence in it that I had never known before.

Of course it sometimes takes time for this interest to mature. That is why re-calls are so often necessary. If you need to call back a few times, the increased exposure makes it so much the better. Remember that what you are doing is very important, and your objective is not merely to get a subscription — it is to get this Magazine and a desire to read it into the hearts of people in such a way that they will read it religiously and profitably every month.

No devoted, effective effort is ever lost. It has been said that the smallest bird cannot alight on the greatest oak without sending a vi bration to the furthermost root end. Success is accumulative. I once heard a man telling about the number of calls he made when he was courting his wife. Someone said to him, "Why didn't you just call on her once?" I suppose that when some of you were being courted, he had to come back as many as two or three times before he got the job done.

3. Ineffective Presentation

Number three of the big four is an ineffective presentation. Some procedures get better results than others. You may be interested in an ineffective presentation made by Moses. When Moses started across the desert leading this great horde of Egyptian slaves, he needed someone who knew the desert to act as their guide. There was a man living on the edge of the desert by the name of Hobab. Moses said to him, "Hobab, come with us and we will do thee good." But Hobab said, "I will not go." Even Moses got himself turned down because he said the wrong thing.

But Moses needed Hobab, and so he made another try with a different approach. This time he said, "Hobab, come with us that thou mayest be as eyes to us in the wilderness." 'That is an entirely different appeal, and almost before the words were out of his mouth, Hobab had his hat on and was ready to go.

We have these same two approaches in use in the Church. In trying to get someone to attend Church, we sometimes say, "Come to Church, and we will do thee good." We mean, "It will be a good thing for you to associate with nice people like us." 'That may be all right, but not many people are warmed up by that kind of an appeal. Suppose, as Moses did, we try the service appeal and say, "Come and teach this class. We need your leadership. We need your friendship. You be our eyes in the wilderness." 'That is, to let them do something ls usually much more effective in getting interest.

4. An Indifferent Representative

The fourth of the big four considerations determining failure and success is found in the representative herself. 'The most deadly of the big four is to have an indifferent representative, one who herself is not properly organized or interested. The fires need to be burning brightly in our own hearts before we can ignite the fuse of interest in someone else. We need to have the spirit of success ourselves. Jesus said the kingdom of God is within you. That is where all accomplishment is also.

I would also like to suggest that time and place of the interview are also very important. I have heard of someone trying to collect money or sell someone a subscription as they were about to go into sacrament meeting. I think that the church grounds should be a sanctuary. People go there for another reason. This timeliness of your contact will be very important. That is, if you ever try to sell someone the Empire State Building, don't try to do it while he is running to catch a street car or listening to the concert.

Now, to sum up, if you will perfect the big four in their positive aspects, then every family in the Church will have The Reliet Society Magazine.. I would like to close with one of the most interesting of all ideas. Someone has said that the greatest invention of all time took place at Platea 2500 years ago, when an obscure Greek perfected the process of marching men in step. That is, when it was discovered that the efforts of a great group of people could be co-ordinated and focused upon a single objective, that day civilization began.

What a thrilling idea if all Relief Society Magazine representatives could march in step to reach a complete success where all of the women in the Church not only subscribe to the Magazine, but fully absorbed the great ideas therein every month. And may the Lord bless you to this end is my prayer which I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.