[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Beverages | Author: Jardine]
[Beverages Before a Dinner Winnifred C. Jardine]
Beverages  Before  a  Dinner 
Wiiinifred  C.  Jnrdine 
^  ^\\7HAT  shall  \vc  ser\e  as  a  beverage  or  an  appetizer  before  dinner?"  is  a  question 
^  ^  sincerely  asked  by  Latter-day  Saint  women  whenever  they  are  entertaining. 
There  are  a  multitude  of  answers.  Some  of  them  are  found  in  the  following 
recipes. 
Remember  that  beverages  and  appetizers  ser\ed  before  a  meal  should  be  light 
enough  and  sparing  enough  to  "pique"  the  appetite  rather  than  to  satisfv  it.  And 
the  fla\or  should  contrast  with  other  fla\'ors  of  the  meal.  This  is  wdiat  makes  an 
"appetizer." 
Cranberry  Eggnog 
2  eggs 
/l     C.    SLl 
Ys    tsp.  s^alt 
!4    c.  lemon  juice* 
1  '/:    c.  orange  juice* 
2   c.  cranberrv  juice 
(*In  all  recipes  calling  for  lemon  and  orange  juice,  reconstituted  frozen  or  canned 
orange  juice  and  frozen  or  canned  lemon  juice  may  be  used,  as  well  as  the  freshly 
reamed  juice.) 
Beat  eggs  until  thick;  add  sugar  and  salt.  Blend  in  fruit  juices  and  pour  over 
cracked  ice  in  glasses.     Makes  fi\e  8-oz.  glasses. 
Hot  Spiced  Fruit  Punch 
2  74  c.  sugar 
4  c.  water 
2  full-size  sticks  cinnamon 
8  allspice  berries 
10  cloves 
1  whole  piece  ginger  root 
4  c.  orange  juice 
2  c.  lemon  juice 
2  qts.  apple  cider 
Combine  sugar  and  water;  boil  for  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  spices. 
Cover  and  allow  to  stand  in  warm  place  for  1  hour.  Strain.  Just  before  serving,  add 
juices  and  cider  and  bring  quickly  to  boiling  point.  Remove  from  heat  and  serve  at 
once.     Makes  25  servings. 
Party  Pink  Drink 
4  c.  rhubarb,  cut  up  (1%  lbs.) 
2  c.  water 
2  c.  sugar 
ginger  ale 
Cut  rhubarb  in  i-inch  pieces.  Combine  sugar  and  water,  add  rhubarb,  and  simmer 
until  tender.  Strain  (sa\'ing  rhubarb  pieces  for  pie  or  cobbler).  Freeze  juice.  To 
serve,  spoon  frozen  rhubarb  juice  that  has  been  softened  to  mush  into  glasses  and  fill 
with  ginger  ale.     Makes  about  6  cups. 
Page  204

BEVERAGES  BEFORE  A  DINNER 
205 
Banana  Crush 
4  c.  sugar 
6  c.  water 
2  Vi    c.  orange  juice 
Yi    c.  lemon  juice 
5  crushed  bananas 
4  c.  pineapple  juice 
ginger  ale  or  substitute 
Make  syrup  of  water  and  sugar  by  heating  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Combine  with 
remainmg  ingredients  and  freeze.  Fill  glasses  half  full  of  banana  freeze,  softened  to 
mush.  Fill  glasses  full  with  sparkling  water,  ginger  ale,  or  other  colorless  soft  drinks. 
Makes  enough  to  ser\c  about  35  people.     If  desired,  color  fruit  slush  and  serve  with 
mint  as  a  garnish. 
Mulled  Apricot  Nectar 
6  c.  apricot  nectar 
(or  a  46-oz.  can) 
V2    lemon,  sliced 
2  whole  sticks  cinnamon 
15  whole  cloves 
8  allspice  berries 
Combine  all  ingredients  in  hea\v  saucepan  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Simmer 
gently  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat,  cover,  and  allow  to  stand  30  minutes.  Strain. 
If  desired,  sweeten  to  taste.     Heat  before  serving.     Makes  about  5  cups. 
Raspberry  Float 
3   3-0Z.  packages  raspberry 
flavored  gelatin 
1/ 
c.  boiling  water 
Vi    c.  lime  juice 
2  !4    c.  orange  juice 
1  /':    c.  sugar 
4  c.  cold  water 
1  %    c.  lemon  juice 
1  qt.  ginger  ale 
2  10-oz.    packages    frozen    raspberries 
Dissolve  gelatin  in  boiling  water;  add  sugar,  cold  water,  and  juices;  cool,  but  do 
not  chill  or  gelatin  will  congeal.  (If  it  does  congeal,  heat  just  enough  to  liquify.) 
When  time  to  scr\e,  pour  punch  into  punch  bowl.  Add  ginger  ale  and  frozen 
raspberries.  Stir  until  raspberries  break  apart  and  are  partially  thawed.  Makes  about 
4  quarts. 
Grape  Cooler 
II  Dilute  lemonade  only  half  as  much  as  directed  on  can.  Pour  into  ice  trays  and 
freeze.  To  serve,  spoon  frozen  lemonade,  softened  to  a  mush,  into  glasses  and  fill 
with  grape  juice.     Makes  about  16  servings. 
6-oz.  cans  frozen  lemonade  concentrate 
2  qts.  grape  juice 
Tomato  Juice  Cocktail 
2  c.  tomato  juice 
2  tsp.  \inegar 
1  tbsp.  sugar 
Vz   bay  leaf 
2  tsp.  finely  minced  onion 
2   tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Vz    c.  diced  celery