[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V49_03_00_Misc]
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - President
Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor
Hulda Parker: - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer
Anna B. Hari
Alberta H. Christensen
Mary R. Young
Elizabeth B. Winters
Edith §S. Elliott
Mildred B. Eyring
Mary V. Cameron
LaRue H. Rosell
Florence J. Madsen
Charlotte A. Larsen
Afton W. Hunt
Jennie R. Scott
Leone G. Layton
Edith P. Backman
Wealtha S. Mendenhall
Alice L. Wilkinson
Blanche B. Stoddard
Winniefred 8.
Pearle M. Olsen
LaPriel S. Bunker
Evon W. Peterson
Manwaring
Elsa T. Peterson
Irene W. Buehner
Aleine M. Young
Elna P. Haymond
Irene B. Woodford
Irene C. Lloyd
Josie B. Bay
Annie M. Ellsworth
Fanny S. Kienitz

VOL. 49 MARCH 1962 NO. 3

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association
Editorial and Business Offices: 76

The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1961 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 231.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the.1961 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries.

$1.50 sales tax, $1.60 postage per set. NAME uo ceeecceeeecemenecccececccececcccecsesesceccesecesenceecssoncessacecececessecscsnssncscesrsseansesesenscersnersuseuessensrassnssanscenaecnesnsennsearaneseese ADDRESS oo. Uooo. Ccc --ceccscecceeeccescceeececscceccensecessceesccecacccaceeseeececseneesnesoesseccessscasesaecsaseseesesesseueancesscessssresceceaeansrseanmaamenenssss ites cs eensecseaesenavensons--seeaonssnennssassensacnsenennecsosenssannenaesnessecracs ZONE ne only8QQe® As low as $5 down, $5 a month 0 ) money order ( ) I have an account. Please ( ), Down payment ( ). ES, =e ccoueccceecasecsnseccseresscecececeeeeeee Full) amount eeovvevoeveaovoeoeevpeesecoeeeeevseeve see eed Al i if "economy package" amounts of $10,000 or \ ENS-E 20-165-41450 Second Class Postage Paie at Salt Lake City, Utah SEP 62 more can be obtained at substantial savings. Many policies can have an "insured insurability" feature added that will enable you to purchase more insurance in the future Is your life insurance without new evidence of your insurability. Learn more about the features of new Beneficial Life policies that mean more benefits for you. Call your local Beneficial Beneficial? For the young business executive on the way up, few plans can match Beneficial's Commercial Whole Life plan. Insurance in ae ff 7 ~—. ~ f "Z es ~ a Life man soon. Mance > Virgil H. Smith, Pres.