[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 146 | Lesson | Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part IV Robert | K. Thomas]
[Literature — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part IV Robert K. Thomas]

In identifying with music and LESSON DEPARTMENT literature these men feel that they are focusing outside of themselves. But the phrase pe I have saved what I love" gives Doctor Jenkins away. He thinks, as he grasps his lead pipe and waits for one of the men to try and rob him, that he is prepared to die for beauty; but, in reality, he is only defending a few rapidly deteriorating possessions. In the reverence which all lavish on the books and music there is ritual without religion. In the comment that "we need the absolute if we are to keep a grasp on anything" there is an echo of a better day, but such a suggestion is quickly shouted down as being "no earthly good." We realize now why the author has included no women among the survivors. The "new ones" whom Doctor Jenkins takes for granted simply cannot come from such people. This is not Eden—a be- — ginning—but Armageddon—the end. Nothing can save a world composed of single units. Selflove is hopelessly sterile. If the selections we have been considering in this lesson seem to present various kinds of self-focus, there is one ingredient that is common to them all—impotence. No one enamored of himself grows or develops. He can't overcome weaknesses when he refuses to see them or profit by mistakes that he won't recognize. His lonely fate is graphically described by Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832), the English novelist and poet, in his "Lay of the Last Minstrel": The wretch, concentred all in self, Living, shall forfeit fair renown, And, doubly dying, shall go down 


 To the vile dust from whence he sprung, Unwept, unhonoured, and unsung. Thoughts and Questions For Discussion 1. In "Opportunity" Edward Rowland Sill suggests that what we have may be enough if we are able to use it. What self-centered attitudes besides envy keep us from living up to our potential? 2. How does the opening line of ''Miniver Cheevy" prepare us to understand one of the main problems of this poem? Why is "scorn" less fruitful than "criticism"? 3. Despite Mrs. Cadman's brief insight, Elizabeth Bowen wants us to realize that the truly self-centered person seldom changes. How does the concluding line of this story show how little Mrs. Cadman really understands her problem? 4. In the light of the warning given in "The Portable Phonograph," how can one keep an interest in any art from degenerating into personal indulgence?