[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 105 | General Feature | Notes to the Field: Index for 1964 Relief Society | Magazine Available]
Margery S. Stewart Cry across the sea, Dazzle the darkness With your holy promise, Oh, white walls of wisdom, Golden parapets of prophecy Fulfilled. Let the ships be silent, Proud or searching, Rich or hungry, Let them read what is Written here Burning in the blue air. Let them on the confused Islands meditate The bright assurance of These soaring towers. Temple of dreams... Temple of promise.. Pilgrims of eternity, Pilgrims of earth, Meet here and mingle. There is only love here There is only the tender, Light and stillness Of his Being. Shine forever, oh, temple, Stone, vision, mortar, Dream, concrete, devotion, Obedience, sacrifice, and pillar, For who is wise enough To separate dream from stone Or veil from vision. The Cover: Lake Atitlan, Guatemala, Transparency by Nina B. Brewer Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: The Way of Trees, Owens Valley, California Photograph by Josef Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Iltustrations: © Mary Scopes The

[Notes to the Field: Index for 1964 Relief Society Magazine Available]

Extending from the "large and spacious field," in which they wandered, was a straight and narrow path paralleled by an iron rod, leading to the tree of life. The wanderers were in trouble because they would not grasp the iron rod. That iron rod was inTHE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT terpreted, as you know, by Nephi to be the word of God. They would not grasp the iron rod and follow the path to the tree of life. In the language of our text, they refused to receive the truth and take the Holy Spirit for their guide. The same thing is true of us modern wanderers. There is no necessity for our bewilderment. The same ample means of escape which were available to them of Lehi's vision, are available to us. The Lord, knowing the calamities which would come upon us, restored the truth — the iron rod of Lehi's vision — and gave us the gift of the Holy Ghost, to keep us in the straight path of Lehi's dream. We are today blessed with the. Word of God in rich abundance. In the Old Testament we have what Lehi's people had in the Brass Plates. In addition, we have the New Testament, The Book of Mormon, the Pearl of Great Price, and the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. We also have the teachings of the modern prophets, from the Prophet Joseph Smith to President McKay. The truth in these scriptures would, if followed, lead us into the way of life. Until the peoples of the earth accept the word of God as taught in these, our standard works, they shall never find their way out of the wilderness. Although, worldwide, the prospects are not very bright, we Latter-day Saints need not be dismayed. Knowing the gospel is true and that the promises of the Lord are certain, it is for us to grasp firmly the iron rod, and diligently press on to victory. And we must hold to 


 it; for although the amplification of the truth contained in the Bible by our modern scriptures greatly adds to our store of the word of God, his word will not save us any more than it saved the wanderers of Lehi's vision unless we make use of it. The fact that we have it is not enough. I remember a young lady keeping company with a nonmember of the Church. As their courtship developed, she worried because he was a nonmember. Hoping to do something about it, so she told my wife, she gave him a copy of The Book of Mormon. But when she was asked if she had read it, she said No. Needless to say, he didn't read it either. So now they have both gone his way. When I think of women, I think of mothers; and when I think of mothers, I think of homes and children. When I think of Relief Society sisters, I think of Latter-day Saint mothers in Latter-day Saint homes surrounded by their children. The contemplation of this sacred sanctuary brings to mind the Lord's instructions for us to bring up our "children in light and truth" (D&C 93:40). This phrase, "light and truth," is very interesting and most significant. Time permitting, we could profitably consider it at length. But for our purposes here, we have but time to say that truth embraces knowledge. As you know, the Prophet defined it — ''knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come " (D&C 93:24). These are the great truths which the gospel teaches. Light connotes forsaking of evil. Therefore, to Ba bring up children in "light and truth," we must teach them the word of God and inspire them to forsake evil. I need not elaborate on the theme that children become about what their mothers make them. I spent' my full allotted time a year ago on that subject. You and I, however, and the whole world know that when children reach maturity they reflect in their lives about what their mothers taught them. This is illustrated in the tribute paid to their mothers by the 2,000 young men referred to in The Book of Mormon as the Sons of Helaman. At a time when they were faced with overwhelming odds, Helaman asked them if they would go against the enemy to battle. Although they were very young, they answered,... Behold our God is with us, and he will not suffer that we should fall; then let us go forth; we would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone; therefore let us go, lest they should overpower the army of Antipus. Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers, that if they did not doubt, God would deliver them. And they rehearsed... The words of their mothers, saying: We do not doubt our mothers knew it (Alma 56: 46-48). Without a knowledge of the word of God, these noble mothers never could have built into their sons such an abiding conviction that "if they did not doubt, God would deliver them"; and neither could they have inspired in their sons an unshakeable faith that their "mothers knew" what they were talking about. My beloved sisters, for the salvation of yourselves, your children, and your children's children, I urge you to get a knowledge of the principles of the gospel and impart the knowledge to your children in your home. It is a mistake to depend solely upon. The Church organizations to give them this knowledge. Yours is the primary and the final responsibility to bring up your children in "light and truth." There is no better place to find this knowledge than in. The standard works of the Church. Read them and do as the Lord says, "Let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your mind." Study the revelations of the Doctrine and Covenants: The Lord said of them: Search these commandments, for - they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be 'fulfilled... (D&C 1:37-388). Read The Book of Mormon. Of that book the Prophet said, "I told the brethren that The Book of Mormon was the most correct of any book on earth, and. The keystone of our religion, and a> man would get nearer to God by abiding by its precepts, than by any other book" (DHC IV, page 461). Become familiar with it. Let the beauty and spirit of its plain and simple gospel teachings rest upon your souls. Draw near to the Lord, as the Prophet said, by abiding by its precepts.