[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 134 | Lesson | Theology — The Prophecy on Wars Roy | W. Doxey]
Doxey Lesson 64 — The Prophecy on Wars (Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 86 and 87) For First Meeting, May 1965 latter fact is mentioned since it is the apostles who direct the work of taking the 8ospel to the nations of the earth. Since the apostles are the direct representatives of the Savior, their acts are the same as the Lord's. (D&C 1:38.) In the parable the wheat is sown by the Lord's apostles while, in opposition, the tares are sown by Satan and represent his followers. (Matt. 13:38; D&C 86:3.) Both accounts of the parable refer to the eventual triumph of the Lord in Saving the wheat and burning the tares. (Matt. 13: 39-43; D&C 86:7.) Significant in the revelation is the truth that these are the last days when the parable is to be fulfilled. (D&C 86:4.) With the restoration of the gospel, the seed is again sown, but the Lord will not permit the tender blade of wheat to be destroyed by pulling up the tares until the harvest is ripe, and this, notwithstanding the angels "are ready and waiting to be sent forth to reap down the fields" (Ibid., verse 5). A MODERN PROPHET SPEAKS At a testimony meeting of Salt Lake temple workers in Brigham City, Utah, June 24, 1894, President Wilford Woodruff related some events of the last days which he had received by vision. The allusion to the "angels of destruction" and 'the wheat and the tares" emphasizes the message of Section 86. 1 want to ask this congregation a question: When I have the vision of the night opened continually before my eyes, and can see the mighty judgments that are about to be poured out upon this world, when I know these things are true, and are at the door of Jew and Gentile; while I know they are true and while I am holding this position before God and this world, can I withhold my voice from lifting up a warning to this people, and to the nations of the earth? I may never meet with this people again; I cannot tell how that may be. But while I live and see these things continually before my eyes I shall raise my warning voice. Now, the question I wanted to ask you is this: We have fourteen [hundred] million people on this earth, and over them all there hangs a cloud of darkness almost entirely upon their shoulders. Can you tell me where the people are who will be shielded and protected from these calamities and judgments which are even now at our doors? I'll tell you. The Priesthood of God who honor their priesthood, and who are worthy of their blessings are the only ones who shall have this safety and protection. No other people have a right to be shielded from these judgments. They are at our very doors; not even this people will escape them entirely. They will come down like the judgments of Sodom and Gomorrah. And none but the _ priesthood will be safe from their fury. LESSON DEPARTMENT God has held the angels of destruction for many years, lest they should reap down the wheat with the tares. But I want to tell you now, that those angels have left the portals of heaven, and they stand over this people and this nation now, and are hovering over the earth waiting to pour out the judgments. And from this very day they shall be poured out. Calamities and troubles are increasing in the earth, and there is a meaning to these things. Remember this, and reflect upon these matters. If you do your duty, and I do my duty, we'll have protection, and shall pass through the afflictions in peace and in safety. Read the scriptures and the revelations. They will tell you about all these things. Great changes are at our doors. The next twenty years will see mighty changes among the nations of the earth. You will live to see these things, whether I do or not. I have felt oppressed with the weight of these matters and I felt I must speak of them here. It's by the power of the Gospel that we shall escape (The Young Woman's Journal, Vol. V, 1894, pp. 512-513). Mighty changes have occurred on the earth beginning with World War I, which began twenty years later. Governments ~have changed, and unrest among the nations has increased. Conflicts among peoples and warfare have taken their toll. Advances in technology, and better means of destroying men have been devised. Natural calamities have also been evident since that time. GREAT PROMISES Several important truths are given in closing verses 8 to 11 of Section 86. These truths emphasize the need for Latter-day Saints to live in accordance with their lineage and the promises that the Lord has made to them. The saints have the privilege of being saviors to the house of 


 Israel through the ministrations of the Priesthood of which they are lawful heirs through their fathers. Sometimes one might think that the Israel lineage of the Latter-day Saints is only figurative, but this revelation says that we are lawful heirs to the Priesthood "according to the flesh" (verse 9) — literal descendants of the patriarchs to whom the promises were made that their descendants would be custodians of the gospel and the Priesthood through the ages. (Abraham 2:8-11.) The Lord assures us that these promises are to remain with his chosen people in the last days in order that the restitution of all things spoken of by the prophets may be fulfilled for the benefit of the world. No other people upon this earth have such a great destiny. There will probably be some who will not fulfill their part of that destiny, but this latter-day work will not be stopped. PROPHECY ON WAR Ever mindful of world events, due, in part, to the Angel Moroni's prophecy that the words of the prophets concerning the last days were about to be fulfilled (Joseph Smith 2:36-41), the Prophet recorded some events which to him indicated that these were the last days. Among these writings is this introduction to Section 87: Appearances of troubles among the nations became more visible this season than they had previously been since the Church began her journey out of the wilderness. The ravages of the cholera were frightful in almost all the large cities on the globe. The plague broke out in India, while the United States, amid all her pomp and 136 greatness, was threatened with immediate dissolution. The people of South Carolina, in convention assembled (in November), passed ordinances, declaring their state a free and independent nation; and appointed Thursday, the 31st day of J anuary, 1833, as the day of humiliation and prayer, to implore Almighty God to vouchsafe His blessings, and restore liberty and happiness within their borders. President Jackson issued his proclamation against this rebellion, called out a force sufficient to quell it, and implored the blessings of God to assist the nation to extricate itself from the horrors of the approaching and solemn crisis. On Christmas day [ 1832], I received the following revelation and prophecy on war (DHC lI:301; Section 87 follows.), With the foregoing prophecies before him, and conditions shaping up in the world that gave promise of the fulfillment of the Lord's word to this generation, the Prophet was deeply concerned about conditions in the United States. One year before receiving this revelation on war (Section 87), these two significant prophecies heralded the great American Civil War: Ye hear of wars in far countries, and you say that there will soon be great wars in far countries, but ye know not the hearts of men in your own land (D&C 38:29). The second prophecy is more specific relative to conditions in the United States. Ye hear of wars in foreign lands; but, behold, I say unto you; they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own Jands (Ibid., 45:63). Among the numerous prophecies given by Joseph Smith, the one on war in the last days stands" out as strong evidence that he possessed the prophetic gift. Called to give the Lord's word to this generation (Jbid., 5:10), he spoke fearlessly of the judgments of the last days. The following main essentials of Section 87 about the American Civil War support the Prophet's calling: (1) The wars of the last days would commence with the rebellion of South Carolina. (2) This war would terminate in the death and misery of many souls. (3) The Southern States would be divided against the Northern States. (4) Slaves would rise up against their masters and be disciplined for war. Other elements of the prophecy relating to subsequent events will be considered also. In addition to the foregoing and also the two warnings given before December 25, 1832 (J bid., 38:29; 45:63), the Prophet wrote to N. C. Seaton, Esq., editor of a paper in Rochester, New York, on January 4, 1833: And now I am prepared to say by the authority of Jesus Christ,. That not many years shall pass away before the United States shall present such a scene of bloodshed as has not a parallel in the history of our nation _.. (DHC 1:315). DATES AND CONDITIONS. In the preceding section the Prophet's journal is quoted as an introduction to Section 87. In that statement of conditions in the United States and in other parts of the world, he noted that South Carolina had declared itself independent and that President Andrew Jackson had taken steps to quell that rebellion. What brought about that situation in South Carolina? Several LESSON DEPARTMENT years before 1832, discontent was manifest in the South over Federal tariff laws which protected the industrialists of the North while the Southern planters suffered. The tariff act of 1828 was called a tariff of abomination in the South, and the one of 1832 was also considered with equal or greater abhorrence. This discontent led South Carolina to favor the nullification of the Federal tariff laws, and, if necessary, to withdraw from the Union. President Jackson issued his Proclamation on Nullification on December 10, 1832, which denied to any State the power to secede from the Union. Although South Carolina appealed to the other states for support, it was not forthcoming. Virginia and Georgia were sympathetic to the cause, but would do nothing for South Carolina. (See HESSELTINE, WILLIAM B.: The South in American History, page 198.) Although a crisis had developed in the Nation, the ingredients to bring about an armed conflitt between the States were not there. New tariff legislation in 1833 indicated a conciliatory attitude on the part of the South and the North. In another section of the Doctrine and Covenants, dated the same day as Section 87, the Prophet recorded: I prophesy, in the name of the Lord God, that the commencement of the difficulties which will cause much bloodshed' previous to the coming of the Son of Man will be in South Carolina. It may probably arise through the slave question. This a voice declared to me, while I was praying earnestly on the subjeet, December 25th; 1832 (D&C 130:12-13). 


 It is important to note that the Prophet prophesied that the American Civil War would probably begin through the slave question, not because of it,. But that slavery would be a contributing cause. Much has been written on the cause of the Civil War. While some have advocated the single cause of slavery, others have denied this and some have suggested that slavery was only the surface issue, while deeper causes lay at its origin. (See ROZWENEC, EDWIN C., ed.: Slavery as a Cause of the Civil War, 1949.) Although received in 1832, the prophecy was not published until 1851 in the first edition of the Pearl of Great Price. The revelation, however, was well known among the members of _ the Church and, according to some of the apostles, it was used in missionary work. Elder Wilford Woodruff said that he and many others had a copy of the revelation twenty-five years before the rebellion. (Journal of Discourses 14:2.) There were few Americans, in 1851, who believed that the Civil War was imminent, and in 1832 it was even farther from their minds. HISTORY IS PROPHESY REVERSED South Carolina rebelled against the Federal Government and the actual war commenced on April 12, 1861, with the firing upon the Northern-held Fort Sumter in Charleston harbor. The war pitted twenty-two Northern States against eleven Southern States. (D&C 87:1-3.) Misery and death stalked the land in that ferocious war. No human being, 138 except the Lord's Prophet, knew the tremendous toll of lives and destruction of property that would result. The estimated cost of that war was eight billion dollars, a huge sum in that day. The Southern States did call upon Great Britain for aid, but that nation did not enter the conflict. However, she did permit Southern cruisers to be fitted out in her shipyards, resulting in the payment of $15,500,000 damage claim to the Union after the War. The South also called for aid from France and Spain, but none was granted. BEGINNING OF MODERN WARS The prophecy on war is about wars. (D&C 87:1.) The Civil War began a train of wars and calamities on the earth. And the time will come that war will be poured out upon all nations, beginning at this place. And thus, with the sword and by bloodshed the inhabitants of the earth shall mourn; and with famine, and plague and earthquake, and the thunder of heaven, and the fierce and vivid lightning also, shall the inhabitants of the earth be made to feel the wrath, and indignation, and chastening hand of an Almighty God, until the consumption decreed hath made a full end of all nations (Verses 2, 6). Since the Civil War, the nations of the earth have suffered famine, plague, earthquakes, and wars. The remarkable fulfillment of this prophecy is the fact that a year has noi passed since 1861 when the nations have been free of internal or external wars. The geographical impact of war was felt in World War I in answer to the call upon other nations by Great Britain to defend herself and her allies. (Verse 3.) Following verse 3 of Section 87, it seems that the order of events of the remaining part of the prophecy is about the postCivil War period, which would culminate in the '"'end of all nations." CONCLUSION Joseph Smith was ordained to give the Lord's word to this dispensation. (D&C 5:10.) He predicted many details concerning the American Civil War. History has proved him a foreteller of these events. War and other calamities were to be poured out upon all nations after the Civil War. In fact, peace was to be taken from the earth in our dispensation. (Ibid., 1:35.)