[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 127 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions —_ Northern States Mission Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for the Annual Relief Society Conference, August 28-30, 1964 I Front row, at the right: Kathryn M. Heiser, chorister; Lucretia Nadle, Supervisor. Second row, right to left, mission board members: Ira Mae Palmer, Presi- ' dent; Ruby Barton, Counselor; Roberta Miller, Secretary-Treasurer. Counselor Esther Waite was not present when the picture was taken. Seated at the piano: Margaret F. Maxwell, organist. Sister Palmer reports: "A beautiful day of late summer found Relief Society officers and class leaders of the Northern States Mission districts and branches en route to DeKalb, Illinois, for the Annual Relief Society Conference. From the northern parts of Wisconsin to the southern tip of Illinois, and from Iowa, to the west, they came. The theme of the three-day conference was 'Put Your Life in Balance.' The conference was held on the campus of the Northern Illinois University. There was an evening of entertainment, skits, a dissertation on 'Charm,' and a showing of 'The Awakening.' A day was spent in instruction for all officers and class leaders, with special attention being given to teacher training and music. A feature of the conference was a bazaar. Attractive displays were arranged and articles were brought by each branch. Some of these were for display only, and others were for sale. "Saturday evening a lovely dinner was served, with more than 200 present. On the Sabbath Day thoughts were focused on things spiritual. Elder E. A. Nadle, President, Northern States Mission, spoke on the importance of 'Balance,' and the necessity of it in our lives through the gospel cf Jesus Christ. Other speakers were Sister Nadle and past and present members of the mission board. The conference was truly inspirational. Each sister left filled with the spirit of Relief Society and a determination to fill her office to the very best of her ability." 127 £ PKs Sg: Se Nyssa Stake (Oregon) Social, March 27, 1964 Marian Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society, reports that the highlight of this outstanding function was the way in which the purposes of the Relief Society lesson courses were delineated by means of carefully arranged displays. The theology display presented in miniature the organization of the Relief Society in 1842, with Christ as the central figure in the illustration, bringing the Church, Relief Society, and the home into one complete unit. The visiting teacher department depicted the beautiful thought that as the lighthouse guides the men of the sea, so the visiting teachers illuminate the minds of women. For the work meeting (photograph not included), lovely articles were displayed, each ward and branch being assigned to make and exhibit specific articles, so that there was an effective variety and no duplications. The literature department brought to view the New World and the American dream. The social science display represented Church government and Church leadership consisting of men called of God. The music department displayed the Tabernacle organ, made to scale, and in front of it, the choir seats were occupied by Singing Mothers dressed in white blouses and dark skirts. At the close of the social, each guest was given a copy of the March 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. eae te we en J % " «ga ¥ ' y.% Atelier oe Sefer s we An » Pte, FEBRUARY 1965 Inglewood Stake (California) Stake Board Holds Social on Theme "There Will Your Heart Be Also," April 15, 1964 Front row, left to right: Delores Porter, visiting teacher message leader; Ruby Bates, Second Counselor; Beth Stallman, President; LaVerl Bennett, chorister; Ruth Jones, social science class leader; Sue Bateman, SecretaryTreasurer; Lucille Peel, organist. Back row, left to right: Edith Pew, Magazine representative; Margaret Smith, First Counselor; la Young, work meeting leader; Lula Howard, theology class leader. Myrtle Petrie, literature class leader, was not present when the picture was taken. Sister Stallman reports: "On April 15, 1964, Inglewood Stake held a social with the theme "There Will Your Heart. Be Also." A dramatization of the theme was beautifully presented, with lovely music preceding and following. Beautiful displays of lessons, all types of handwork, arts, and crafts demonstrations were much enjoyed in the cultural hall. Two nonmembers ordered The Relief Society Magazine after the display. We were delighted with the success and wonderful comments on this event." Cumorah Stake (New York) Visiting Teacher Luncheon May 23, 1964 Outside row, at the left, left to right: Margaret Stoner, Magazine representative; Verna C. Harris, President, Cumorah Stake Relief Society; sixth from the left: Marilyn Wright, Work Counselor; eighth from the left: President Bryant W. Rossiter, Cumorah Stake. Sister Harris reports: "The luncheon was a very nice affair, being a smorgasbord, provided by the Relief Societies of the stake. There was an interesting variety of foods. The film strip "The Awakening' was enjoyed by those present. "'We have been making an increased effort to reach more of our scattered membership through the visiting teacher program this year, and we feel rewarded by the results." Apia Stake (Samoa) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Concert at Social, May 23, 1964 Third from the left in the front row: Shirla Bingham, accompanist; second row, at the left: Peaulele Le'apai, Second Counselor; third from the left: Claudia Harris, narrator of the script which was read to introduce the musical numbers; fourth from the right, in the back row: Selina Mann, President, Apia Stake Relief Society; fifth from the right: Helen Rivers, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Mann submits a report of this outstanding event, composed by Marjorie C. Fisher, who directed the chorus and wrote the script to accompany the musical numbers: "The stake Relief Society presidency and board decided to make this event a complete stake function and organized an inter-faith social. The Relief Societies of the stake invited non-member friends to the concert, which was followed by the recent film on the message of the visiting teachers, followed by a cake sale. Each ward was asked to display in a booth the many facets of the Relief Society program. The singing was beautiful. Many people were impressed by the voices of the wonderful Samoan mothers. They sang sacred, secular, and love songs, and also several trios and sextettes. In the picture the mothers are dressed in the Samoan national costume, called the 'pulutasi,' which can be made of any fabric, but consists of two pieces — a top dress over a long 'lavalava.' The top was white and the 'lavalava' black. The corsages worn by the sisters are brilliant red-orange closed hibiscus. These flowers never open, and resemble a bellshaped rosebud. Each flower was arranged on a background of fern fronds." 130 {El Q13l4 FHL WOUd S3LON FEBRUARY 1965 Franklin Stake (Idaho) Organists and Choristers Who Participated in Singing Mothers Festival May 14, 1964 Front row, seated, left to right: Naomi N. Christensen; Norine C. Bingham, First Counselor, Franklin Stake Relief Society; Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society; Jennie S. Nuffer, President, Franklin Stake Relief Society; Reva W. Wilson, Second Counselor; Louie M. Cole, narrator for the program; Lourena C. Benson; Lois J. Atkinson, stake organist; Mildred L. Oliverson, stake chorister. Second row, standing, left to right: Martha T. Seeley; Norma C. Crabtree; Constance H. Davis; Ina D. Bingham; Vaudis A. Sharp; Afton H. Long; Edrus C. Larsen; Bonna Lu D. Pack; Jenna Vee B. Jensen; Fern S. Porter; Vera G. Merrill; Marian M. Bodily. Back row, standing, left to right: Armina S. Bright; Grace L. Robinson; Mardene H. Sparrow; Marie H. Owen; Donna G. Fonnesbeck; Vera K. Cole. Sister Nuffer reports: "As an outgrowth of ward participation at stake leadership meetings, and to celebrate the Relief Society anniversary, a large and appreciative audience gathered to hear the Music Festival given by the Singing Mothers of the eleven wards of Franklin Stake. A varied program was presented, with each ward group singing one number, and the combined group of 220 Singing Mothers sang two numbers. Sister Florence J. Madsen, a special guest, led the combined group in 'If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' and stake chorister Mildred L. Oliverson led the group in "The Lord's Prayer,' by Gates. Lois J. Atkinson, stake organist, and Lourena C. Benson were the accompanists for the combined group. The lovely narration was composed and narrated by Louie M. Cole of the stake board." Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Art, Sculpture, and Flower Show July 31, 1964 Pauline Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Big Horn Stake Relief Society held an Art, Sculpture, and Flower Show in Byron, July 31, 1964. The paintings were done by men and women in the Big Horn Basin, members and nonmembers, as well. It was wonderful the way people responded to this show. Each person was privileged to exhibit one painting in each category (oil, water color, and pencil). "The sisters of Relief Society responded willingly to the flower show also. This was the second exhibit of this kind, and the flower arrangements were better than those of the first exhibit. Three hundred or more people from all over the Basin came to see the exhibit. We had homemade candy and carmel corn to sell, and there were booths where demonstrations were given on corsage making and flower arranging. These demonstrations were a big success." a Stake (Illinois) Three Ward Relief Societies Hold Friendship Party September 28, 1964 Three ward Relief Society presidents are seen displaying some of the items exhibited at the Friendship Party, left to right: Naomi Graves, North Shore Second Ward; Lilly Jesperson, North Shore First Ward; Lorna Rubow, Logan Square Ward. Jasmine R. Edmunds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: "Display tables had been prepared, showing the various activities and study courses of Relief Society. The very effective program included songs by the Singing Mothers of the three participating wards. The program was designed to encourage attendance at Relief Society meetings, and especially emphasized attendance of Latter-day Saint women and their friends. It was a highly successful function.. "Other wards in the stake gave parties in their own areas. Because of the distances in our stake, the stake board felt that this plan would make it possible for more nonactive women to participate by attending the Friendship — All of the ward parties seemed to be well attended and were successful." 132 INTRODUCTION The two revelations for study in this lesson were received in the month of December 1832. Many times before this date the Lord revealed that troublous _ times were ahead for the people of this dispensation, if they did not repent. (D&C 1:11-17, 35; 0:15- 20; 29:14-21; 45: 26-44. ) SECTION 86 Karly in December of 1832, Joseph Smith received a revelation explaining the parable of the Wheat and the Tares. This revelation clarified, in some respects, the New Testament recording of this parable. (Matt. 13:24-30, 37-43.) The New Testament Says that the Lord is the sower of the wheat, while the revelation refers to the apostles as the sowBecause this parable is to have its fulfillment in the present generation, it is probable that the