[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 151 | Lesson | Social Science — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men Ariel | S. Ballif]
SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Functioning of Church Government Elder Ariel S. Ballif Lesson 21 — Summary: Peace in the Hearts of Men For Fourth Meeting, May 1965 Objective: To emphasize the vital role of the function of Church government in bringing about peace on the earth. There are those in the world who say that jealousy, enmity, selfishness in men's hearts will always preclude the establishing of the ideal society known as the kingdom of God. No matter what doubters and _ scoffers say, the mission of the Church of Jesus Christ is to eliminate sin and wickedness from the hearts of men, and so to transform society that peace and good will will prevail on this earth (President David O. McKay, Church Section, January 25, 1964, page 2). Peace and good will are -attitudes of mind. An attitude is a tendency to act in a dependable way in a given situation. Attitudes are learned through a series of experiences which bring about pleasing, satisfying, and desired results. Attitudes grow out of study, human contacts, and associations. They are more than feelings or opinions. They are more accurately revealed in what we do than in what we say. RELIGIOUS ATTITUDES The true religious attitude of an individual is revealed in his activity related to the teachings of the Church. For exdmple, when one -testifies to being a member of the Church and that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God and that God spoke through Joseph to us, and then the testifier disregards revealed laws given by the Prophet, the strength of the person's testimony is found in his actions, not in his stated word. Jesus found a similar condition among the Jews when he said, "Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me'"' (Matt. 15:7-8). This applies not only to a specific revelation but to tell- 


 ing the truth in all situations, being honest in all one's dealings with God and man, and in every other principle of the good life that has been revealed. OBJECTIVE OF CHURCH GOVERNMENT Church government is designed by divine law to give direction to the lives of human beings so that they may find expression for the fulness of their possibilities. As has been pointed out in other lessons, under divine law the Church, through the home, has been given a major responsibility of setting the proper example. The parents must translate into action the teachings of the Savior. Under this influence the child begins the development of attitudes that last throughout his life, such as faith in God, acceptance of divine law, and the application of the same in the love of fellow men. A second major responsibility of Church government is so to direct the membership that, as a community, the proper environment is developed. Church and Church service are major factors in this development. An important concern is the temporal welfare of each member. Reducing suffering from hunger or unemployment is only a part of the responsibility. Health, recreation, and education are of equal importance in the temporal welfare of the members of the Church. A third major responsibility is to challenge the intellect of every member of the Church. Spiritual development and __ intellectual growth must go hand in hand. The development of proper atti- 152 tudes for all Church members requires the proper functioning of all three of the above mentioned responsibilities. THE POWER OF ENVIRONMENT In the opening passage of the first of Confucius' Four Books. There is a statement that has a bearing on this discussion: When true knowledge is achieved, then one has sincerity of purpose. When there is sincerity of purpose, then comes rightness of heart. With the rightness of heart, then the personal life can be cultivated. With the cultivation of personal life, the family life may be regulated. When the family life is regulated, then the national life is orderly. And when the national life is orderly, then there is peace in the world. From the Emperor down to the common man, all must regard the cultivation of the personal life as the root or foundation. There is never an orderly super-structure when the foundation is wobbly. There is never a tree whose trunk is slim and weak and whose top branches are well grown. The home is the training ground for the members of the kingdom. If the family performs its function, the basic attitudes toward peace and good will are established. 'The same motivation as exists in the family must be present in the community of the membership of the Church. With each family functioning according to the divine instruction (D&C 68:25-26), the ward environment would be ideal for the production of love and understanding. The teachings of the Savior are not just for the refreshing of our minds about beautiful ideals. Every principle of the gospel must become a functioning part of the life of each member. The struggle must be one's own. Nobody may do the learning act for another. One cannot obtain wisdom, or learning, or beauty of character as a gift or an inheritance.... Here, as elsewhere, he must perfect himself through his own striving; and he cannot rise above the level of his own accomplishment wrought through his own labor (Bowen, Albert E.: Conference Report, April 5, 1948, page 91). The maturing of the individual is an outcome of experience and association. The tendency to act in a given way is dependent upon how well or how effectively and frequently the principles of the good life have been presented to the individual. No virtue is practiced without training and understanding. Few persons are honest without the standard of honesty being systematically presented in a positive and unwavering manner. The same is true of chastity, kindness, justice, and loyalty. These are some of the traits which characterized the life of the Savior and that each person must acquire to develop peace and good will in his heart. This is slow, but can be a steady process. THE FUTILITY OF FORCE For thousands of years men have tried to maintain peace through the development of machines of destruction. There has been a constant flow of inventive genius to produce the most destructive instruments of war, from simple hand weapons, such as sharpened stones, swords, axes, and bows and arrows, to the many uses of the power of the bow or spring to hurl great missiles on the enemy. LESSON DEPARTMENT With the development of explosive power there has developed undreamed of force from explosives, until one blast can destroy a city and hundreds of thousands of human beings. With the growth of such power, fear has filled the hearts of men. Nations are employing their top physical scientists and_ their wealth to produce more effective and accurate means of destruction. Each great political power watches with envy the triumph in this field of the other nations. A major result of the power race is the increase of suspicion, hatred, and enmity among nations and in the hearts of all the people. UNDERSTANDING. OUR NEIGHBORS There is a gleam of hope in the power of struggle of nations found in the technical developments that bring people closer together physically. Now man can circle the globe in hours. There are no protective walls in the form of mountains or oceans. We are close neighbors to any and all of the peoples of the earth. We must learn more about them. Understanding our neighbors opens the way for friendly relations. The more friendly the people, the greater the possibility for peace. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has approximately twelve thousand missionaries, mostly young men and women, teaching the principles of righteousness and peaceable understanding to the people of the world. Theirs is an unselfish effort to show people the only way to live happily together upon this earth. They are demonstrating by their teachings and practice 


 the value of love in the lives of human beings — showing that "the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance: against such there is no law" (Gal. 5:22-23). They (the missionaries) need the support of the home community to illustrate the truths of their teachings. They need every Latter-day Saint family to demonstrate the effectiveness of love of God and love of fellow men. DIVINE LAW THE GUIDE TO PEACE The government of God, which is the operation of divine law, is the only way to establish peace and good will in the hearts of men. There is no other way. Peace is the product of a clear conscience, of reason and intelligence, and of faith in God and an understanding of man's relationship to him. It is a result of the concerted effort of and the intent of the best performance of the minds of men. Peace will come when the leadership of this world and the people in it are willing to recognize God's plan and work harder, sacrifice more, and use all their resources for the development of his plan. Peace can come about when all people are concerned as much about the welfare of others as they are about themselves. It can happen when all men let the motive of service to others be the impelling drive in the performance of their professions. THE PRINCE OF PEACE Peace is not the easy way of life. It is the way of life that is directed by the pattern that Jesus gave us. "Greater love hath 154 no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends" (John 15:13). Christ's joy and glory came in using his talents, experience, and power for the welfare and improvement of mankind. When he performed a miracle, he advised the beneficiary to go his way and tell no one what had happened. In meeting the opposition he did not use force. He could have called legions of angels to protect him but he did not. He met force with love and kindness. He rebuked Peter when he smote off the ear of the soldier who was about to take the Christ a prisoner. Then he restored the ear to the wounded man. He always did good to those who despitefully used or abused him. Jesus went out to find those who were weary and sick at heart, and gave them courage, healing their broken parts, and counseling them to love God and love their fellow men. I The divine law provides the necessary direction for obtaining perfection. Perfection is the goal of man as designed by the Creator. In Adam's time, and also in the time of Enoch, and while Jesus was upon the earth, and at the time recorded in 4 Nephi, those near the source of divine instruction obtained a degree of perfection. They were taught correct principles and, with freedom of choice made with full knowledge, they were able to make right decisions. True virtue (knowing right from wrong and choosing the right) existed. In each generation referred to, the off-balance in conduct came when deception, greed, covetousness, selfishness, or other human weaknesses distorted their know]l- edge, their reason, and their faith, and then the people made their decisions influenced by their degree of unrighteousness. In these conditions the love of God and love of fellow men, so basic to peace and good will, are lost. SUMMARY Let us return now to the basic point of our lessons for the past three years — divine law and Church government. Our effort has been to bring to you a discussion of divine law and its function in Church' government through the Priesthood, which is the power of God delegated to man. The purpose of the government of the Church is to fulfill the objective of the Creator, "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (Moses 1:39). The mission of Jesus Christ to this earth established the pattern by which the objective of God can be realized. His pattern of life, his motivation in all his activity on this earth was demonstrated in the first and great commandment, "... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two LESSON DEPARTMENT commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:37- 40). As the Savior was about to leave this world he said to his disciples, ''Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you " (John 14:27). His peace came from knowing he had filled to the fulness the will of the Father in his (Christ's) service to mankind. The love he had for his Father was demonstrated in the good he did for his fellow men. How often he said, "If ye love me, keep my commandments." If we would know his peace, we must follow in his footsteps. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. What is the evidence of a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ? 2. What is the meaning of "'... Their heart is far from me," as quoted in Matt. 15:7-8? 3. To what extent is Church government responsible for the community environment of its members? 4. How important is the family influence in shaping worthy members of the kingdom? 5. How important is love in developing peace in the hearts of men? 6. What part does divine law play in the development of peace? REFERENCES New Testament, Matthew, Chapters 22, 24: John, Chapters 14, 15. Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 24; Appendix 24, page 55.