[Vol52 | February 1965 | Page 110 | Fiction | Madame Letitia Dorothy | Clapp Robinson]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman in a headscarf and a large flower]

VALENTINE'S DAY

Mary hadn't returned from her babysitting job. The house seemed large and lonely. She wandered aimlessly from the kitchen to the living room. In case John did want to go to the Sweetheart Ball, she'd better check on her blue dress. She hadn't worn it for sometime, and it might need repairs, or pressing while the iron was hot.

Lydia walked briskly to the bedroom, opened the wardrobe door, and took her blue dress from its hanger. She started to move away, and then she stopped. There, hanging on the rack just beyond the place where the blue one had been hanging, was the most beautiful pale pink lace sheath she had ever seen. Cautiously she reached for it, almost afraid it was a mirage of some kind. "Why for goodness sakes," she said aloud, although she was alone in the room. "For me?" With trembling fingers, she reached for a homemade valentine pinned to the dress and read, "To the dearest girl in all the land. My happiest day was the day I won your hand. My valentine for all eternity."

Lydia smiled as she took the dress from the hanger, and held it closely to her. Then she let the frock fall limp in her arms as she glanced down at the size twelve in bold figures on the tag. "Oh, no," she cried, "why I haven't worn that size in years. I can't possibly get into this." She stood several minutes staring at the dress. She would have to do something, but what? She had better call John and tell him. He could exchange it perhaps. Or maybe Freda... She hurried to the telephone and dialed Freda's number.

"Hello Freda," she said when she heard her friend's voice on the other end of the line. "I... I..."

"Oh, you finally found the dress?" Freda laughed. "I thought you never would."

"It's a size twelve. It simply won't fit, and it is so beautiful."

She heard Freda laugh softly. "That's what I tried to tell John."

"What shall I do?"

"Calm down for one thing," Freda said. "I knew you didn't wear size twelve anymore, so I ordered you a size sixteen the day John bought that one. It came in this morning."

"Oh, thank you, Freda. You're a wonderful friend. I'll be right down and exchange it as soon as Lavina awakens." As an afterthought, she added, "Of course I'll tell John the truth."

Freda laughed. "I doubt if he will believe you, but suit yourself. I tried to tell him, but he said, 'I guess I know what size my wife wears. She wore size twelve when we were married, and she hasn't changed one bit. Except...'"

"Except what?" Lydia asked breathlessly.

"Except he said you were seventeen years lovelier."

"Thank you, Freda, for everything," Lydia said excitedly. She hung up the receiver, and stood quietly a moment. A wife just couldn't receive a better compliment than that... not in a hundred years. What a wonderful Valentine's Day it was!

109

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman in a headscarf and a large flower]

Madame Letitia
Dorothy Clapp Robinson

TISH Haworth woke with a sour taste in her mouth; not, she told herself, from anything she had eaten the night before, but because of something she had discovered about herself.

She was an old woman with no mind, will power, or memory. She had suspected it a time or two, but had refused to believe the evidence. There was the time she had lost her legal papers, and had eventually found them right where she had put them so she wouldn't forget them. Around a quilt on Relief Society work day, she had heard younger women tell of doing just such thoughtless acts. That proved it was not age that made her forget, but last night was different. No younger woman would have made such a fool of herself. There was no place in society for one of her age and degree of frayed will power.

Tish reached and moved the window drape so she could see out. Cold weather, cold, rainy, and dreary. She dropped the drape and tried to coax sleep by snuggling under the blanket. No use. The events marched relentlessly through her mind.

It had begun two weeks ago. Sharon, her granddaughter, had bounded through the kitchen door

110

MADAME LETITIA

bursting with news. Madame Knolski was winning prestige for their state finals. "Their" meaning the Junior Musicians League. It was an out-of-this-world privilege, and the League was having a reception for her.

"She is a real kewpie." Sharon's enthusiasm was boundless. "I met her last summer when our orchestra went to Seattle. Remember?"

Tish nodded with something less than enthusiasm. She had heard the name Madame Knolski so many times it had become a pain to her ears.

"Are you coming to the reception GM? GM was Sharon's latest for Grandmother.

"Of course, darling. Why?"

"Oh — I just wondered." Sharon turned to leave, but at the door she turned. "I thought you might be too tired if you attend the tryouts."

"What an idea. You know I shan't be that tired. If your mother has to go early I have my car."

"Yes — but . . . ." then the reason for the question came out, "this is going to be real top layer, not exactly formal, but. . . ."

"I have a formal. You know how beautiful it is. Your Grandfather bought it for me when . . . ."

"Way back when," Sharon gulped over the disrespectful words, then hurried on. "GM, I love you so much, and I want to be proud of you when I introduce you to Madame Knolski. Won't you please get a new dress — a new one, not the old kind you always buy, and some new shoes? You always look so — so grandmotherly and — and . . . ."

"Comfortable?" After all Sharon was no teenager and suffering from a severe case of hero worship. Tish swallowed a taste of bitterness, then spoke in her usual tone. "Don't worry. I will make sure you are proud of me."

Sharon threw her arms around her grandmother. "I am proud of you, GM. I really am. You understand, don't you?"

"More than you know. Run along now." Tish literally pushed her out of the door.

WHEN the door had closed Tish collapsed in a chair. Understand? What Sharon meant was easy to understand — just make herself into a Madame Knolski who undoubtedly was petite, flashy, and certainly tottered about on spike heels. Tish looked at her own feet encased in comfortable walking shoes.

"I must do it. I will show Sharon her Madame Knolski isn't the only one who knows how to dress. Thank goodness, I don't have the shape of a kewpie, and I hope Madame Knolski doesn't either."

Tish was not petite, not by forty or fifty pounds, but she was not obese, and she had kept herself straight. Her hair was only slightly gray. She would start shopping tomorrow — no, tomorrow was Relief Society. She would start today.

She made an appointment with a beauty operator whose prices were twice what she paid Carma over on Thirty-third Street. She felt guilty and wondered if she should call Carma but decided against it. There was really no need for apologies.

Tish set forth to get her dress and shoes with very sure ideas

111

MADAME LETITIA

her glittering new bag — then glittering pumps, then turned and
stopped short. Something was walked toward her own car. A
missing. period on a most frustrating eve-
Shoes — pumps. She tried to ning.
push her feet into one, then sat * * * *
down to put them on. They were The sting of that goodnight
a dream of brocaded satin, flashy had put the sour taste in Tish's
clips, and spike heels. But — but mouth. The next morning she
they were not the size she had felt even more embarrassed.
tried on. A mistake, printed "She was right," Tish acknowl-
size indicated. edged. "I am an old woman. If
"It is all in my mind," she tried I am as old as I feel, I am at least
to reassure herself. "If other a hundred. But I love to go
women can balance on tooth- places and do things. I love life.
picks, I can, too." I don't want to be old-fashioned
Before the evening was over but. . . ." Memories of last eve-
Tish hoped her vow would not be ning cut short the sentence. With
taken seriously. Fortunately, her a groan she swung her feet to the
feet became so numb that by floor.
leaning on chair backs, holding Without interest, Tish pre-
on to arms, and sitting when she pared and ate her breakfast.
could edge onto a chair ahead of Usually she went for a walk be-
someone else, she managed to fore eating, but what old woman
present a reasonable facsimile of could go abroad on such a dark,
her usual gay, vocal self. She was rainy day. Just settle down in
tempted to slip out of her slippers your rocking chair and be your
but wisely resisted. She thought age! But she had no rocking
of all the martyrs who had inflict- chair.
ed punishment on themselves.

MADAME Knolski was just as THE rain drizzled off, and sud-
Tish had anticipated. She was denly Tish knew she must go for
petite and stood and walked a walk. A walk had always been
about on spikes without a sign of the starting of her day's activi-
discomfort. Her girlish skirt ties, and she might walk the sore-
swished pleasingly, but her hair ness out of her feet.
was white; not bleached or rinsed, Once on the graveled road
just white that comes with age. where she walked each morning,
Unwillingly, Tish began to like her spirits lifted. Fall had always
her. been her favorite time of the
When the time came to leave, year. Yesterday the trees on
Tish could scarcely wait to get either side had swayed with the
out to their car; but barring her breeze, touching the leaves with
way at the door stood Althea, a soft rustling sound. Last night's
Tish's best friend. rain had stripped them of their
"Salaam! Madame Letitia." gay leaves. What had been a riot
Althea bowed dramatically. She of color was now drab gray and
glanced scornfully from her brown.
friend's still perfect hairdo to the Nearing the place of return,
Tish paused a moment to breathe
deeply. She did so enjoy walks

113
