[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Thou | Author: Morris]
eled cedar posts—look at it stagger and sway in the wind now." Her eyes followed the row of rosebushes which had grown to uneven heights, the limbs fallen from trees tangled in their tops. "No, people looking at it would not feel a warm love for the old moldy things that have been so treasured by me," she decided. She got out of the car and started up the walk. The stone steps that led into the house were chipped and worn. It was a funny thing how people let things go that, a few years back, they would have thought were terrible. As she went on into the house she noticed, for the first time, Bian was a big girl now with that her mother no longer kept the corners dusted and shining as she used to do. Maybe I should help her more, she thought. Her father was leaning over a large box of books, nailing the top on ready to ship to the new apartment in town. "Well, Etta, Iam glad you came. Seems a bit more than your mother and I can do to get these things together before the movers come to haul them away." Now the movers had gone, and her father's car was racing on down the road to the new home. She wandered through the empty rooms looking at the bare walls and floors. She came to the bedroom where she and Joe had lived when they were first married; Ronnie had been born there. The walls still held the wallpaper that Joe had put on them fifteen years ago. How hard he had worked to finish that room in time to make it pretty and comfortable for her and the new baby! Etta could see her mother standing at the foot of her bed, where she had suffered with her; but Etta couldn't do anything about it now, the time was past. It had taken until after Ronnie had started to school and Etta had five more children before she had felt that the children were really her own. They had seemed to be her mother's, and as if she were only tending them. Big scars on the walls, where little Joey had poked holes with a play sword once when he was visiting his grandparents, didn't look so Page 665 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 hideous today. She wondered why her mother hadn't covered them up. She saw the worn floors, where many little feet had traveled over the doorsills, wearing them thin. Those little feet were big feet now, and they were wearing trails down the river of time. She came out into the late spring sunset and made sure the door was locked behind her. 'Then a heavy lump came again in her throat, and she walked, aching to stay, across the lawn to the car. Everything wanted to recall to her all that had ever happened in her life and plant her again a child nght here. She wept silently. Well, maybe there was something to this after all:... Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also (Mt. 6:20-21). She knew she couldn't take the farm with her, and that she couldn't run it by herself. Her father had reached the milestone where he no longer could labor so hard. The glowing sun seemed to be a little brighter just before it sank behind the western horizon. Etta slipped the key into the slot and started the car. KK K KK x TTA reminded herself that life is a moving thing, something that goes on and on and that, living or dying, we are continually leaving something dear behind us. Her mother had often told her to look forward and never back. How many times had she said, "Etta, you can't pick up your tracks, but watch carefully where you make new ones." Etta looked at her own neat little garage as she parked the car. 'The shining kitchen floor smiled a gleaming welcome as she entered the house. How homey the yellow organdy curtains looked. "Home," she whispered, "new steps that Joe and I have taken together." What was it her father had said to her the first night after they were married? For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh... (Mt. 19:5). Etta looked out the window to see the big welding truck stop in front of the house. She saw Joe climb out in his dirty coveralls. No longer did she hate the coveralls, but she loved the strong character that shone throughout the lines of toil in Joe's dear face. She started placing the dishes on the table for supper, knowing the children would be flocking in, and feeling a deep contentment to plot new steps forever forward. + She Ornament Thelma J. Lund The ornament upon my desk, Around which copper plate is pressed, Was once a wrinkled leather shoe That held a baby foot, and knew Her first attempt to stand alone And capture freedom for her own.

["Thou Art Thy Mother's Glass" Helen B. Morris]

Chou Art Shy Mlother s Glass 1 Helen B. Morris URING my turbulent adolescent years I was guilty of many of the impulses usually ascribed to the age. I slammed doors and dropped handkerchiefs full of tears. I protested and contested. More often than not my hostility was directed toward my parents, and my mother in particuJar. One day when I sat down to my muror, I discovered a newspaper clipping in place of the shiny nose I had anticipated. I have forgotten the words that were printed there, but the meaning is indelible in my memory. It was reminding me of my debt to my mother and that the repayment was due in kind consideration. It was a reminder put there by one who loved her most—my father. It meant much even then. But today, as a mother myself, the meaning has become clear. I am getting understanding. I think of my parents as I jump from my bed in the black night to rush to an anxious cry, and in a state of half consciousness attempt to satisfy the need. All I have to do is push a button to get a light, another for heat. My parents lighted a kerosene lamp and started a fire in the old Home Comfort before they could hush my cry and return to their warm bed. I think of my parents when I hang out a line full of diapers every other morning. Again I push a button and my work is done. I remember that my father drew water from a well and carried it in a bucket to the kitchen. He chopped wood and built a fire to get it hot, then my mother washed the clothes I wore with the aid of a scrubbing board. I remember my parents when I hold a child weak with fever in my arms. I am secure in the knowledge that whatever is wrong can probably be corrected with a visit from the doctor and a needle full of a wonder drug. 'Then I remember their anxiety as I choked with croup and burned with measles. I remember my mother trembling as we sat alone one rainy night with nothing to stop the bleeding from my tonsillectomy. I see their cheerful care and service day after day as I lay in bed for months with rheumatic fever. When I go to town and buy armfuls of Christmas toys for my children, I remember my mother busy sewing clothes for my own precious doll. I see again the happy Christmas morning of my childhood. When I find myself complaining at being alone when my husband's duties take him away from home, I remember the nights and days and weeks of service my father and mother have given for their Church and community. I know that very service has helped to create my heritage. I look at my own babies relaxed and breathing deeply in their beds and feel a sudden gratitude that they are safe and near. 'Then I can Page 66/7 668 imagine why my parents were concerned about the time I came in from a date, and how fast my boy friend drove his car. I can understand their alarm when I sped away on the back of a squeaking, thundering motorcycle. All this I have learned. The years ahead will teach me much more. And when my sons and daughters are men and women, I will look at them and see myself crossing the years again. 'They will be the reflection of my youth. Then I will understand what my father said when last we visited at home. During that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 sleepy hour before the dawn my child awakened crying that his ear ached. My father joined us in the kitchen as we prepared the aspirin and the hot water bottle. Our faces were drawn and our eyes half shut. "These are the joys of married life," he said. "Thou art thy mother's glass, and she in thee calls back the lovely April of her prime" (Shakespeare, Sonnet 3). My parents see in me the beauties of the days gone by. I find in them anew the gifts of life and sacrifice they gave to me.