[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 12 | Category: General Feature | Title: 658 WEdoimtoarni'als: VSaplhiearnet Womanhood RaVmeostnaa P.W . C rCaawnfnoornd 666509 Notes From the Field: ReHef Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering]
Society Magazine. It is my favorite one." I certainly agree with her. —Mrs. Beatrice Duncan Monterey, California I love Relief Society work and The Relief Society Magazine. We were happy to see Sister Annie M. Ellsworth's picture in the June issue. I worked under her in the Central States Mission and I love her very much. I am enclosing some lines in appreciation of the Magazine: There is food for thought on every page, Inspiration and good cheer; Helps for busy housewives and mothers These pages bring from year to year. —Mtrs. Effie A. Reynolds Deming, New Mexico Page 642 I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine for nearly half a century. As a young girl I was thrilled with the fiction and poetry. As I grew older, I learned to appreciate the entire Magazine for its character-building and literary attributes. Then, as time went on, the helps for homemakers and the spiritual philosophy have attracted more of my attention. The comprehensive lesson material feeds the urges of my soul. —Mrs. Uarda Black King Twin Falls, Idaho I cannot begin to tell you how much we appreciate the Magazine. Out here where we are laboring there isn't a Relief Society organization. 'There are only ten members in this little branch, including men, women, and children. I have been a member of the Relief Society ever since I was married forty-four years ago.

This is the first time I have lived where there isn't an organization. —Mary Hatch South Hot Springs, Arkansas I want to thank you for giving the women of the Church and the world such a wonderful Magazine.

Every thought and word encourages higher and __ better thoughts, along with the good ideas for home improvement. My thanks to you for such a wholesome Magazine in my home. —Made Shelley Holbrook, 'Arizona I love to receive The Relief Society Magazine. It is the only touch I have with the Church, as our nearest meeting place is sixty miles away. I read the Magazine from cover to cover as soon as I receive it. My little girl always enjoys looking through it, also.

Thanks for a wonderful Magazine. } —Mrs. Louise Gibbs Horton, Kansas

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - ~ - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson 7