[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: WEdoimtoarnials | Author: Pi]
[WEdoimtoarni'als: VSaplhiearnet Womanhood RaVmeostnaa P.W . C rCaawnfnoornd 666509 Notes From the Field: ReHef Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering]
collect  in  the  soil,  after  repeated  watering  from  the  bottom  of  the  pot.  At  least  once  a 
week,  give  the  plants  a  good  soaking  from  the  top,  to  wash  out  these  waste  materials 
from  the  soil. 
In  watering,  take  care  not  to  wet  the  leaves  of  the  plant.  The  old  cry  of  "Don't 
ever  water  a  violet  from  the  top"  has  been  disproved.  In  fact,  a  good  top  watering 
is  essential,  but  water  on  the  leaves  may  cause  the  plant  to  burn.  Should  the  sun 
hit  a  wet  leaf,  a  white  scald  will  result,  and  the  leaf  will  rot  and  fall.  Another  burn  is 
caused  by  cold  water.  A  violet  abhors  cold  water  and  sudden  temperature  changes.  A 
draft  will  cause  complete  bud  droppage  in  a  very  short  time. 
The  Proper  Amount  of  Light 
African  violets  love  light,  even  direct  sunlight,  if  it  is  carefully  administered. 
Don't  jeopardize  your  plant  by  placing  it  where  the  sun  beams  through  a  south  or  west 
window  in  the  late  spring  and  summer.  An  east  or  north  window  is  best. 
Feeding  Violets 
There  are  few  set  rules  for  feeding  violets.  One  feeding  a  month  until  they  begin 
to  bloom  is  usually  enough.  A  good  feeding  about  once  c\ery  two  weeks  while  the 
plant  is  in  bloom  should  suffice.  If  a  plant  seems  to  need  an  extra  boost,  dilute  the 
food  a  little  more  and  use  it  every  ten  days.  Water  only  when  the  soil  feels  dry,  and 
never  leave  the  plant  sitting  in  water. 
Crown  rot  is  the  worst  enemy  of  the  African  violet  and  is  hard  to  combat.  Almost 
always  deadly,  it  can  take  a  blooming  plant  in  as  little  as  five  days.  Should  this  happen, 
chp  the  healthy  leaves  from  the  plant,  root  them  for  new  starts,  and  destroy  the  old 
crown.    Never  use  the  same  soil  that  housed  a  diseased  plant. 
Dividing  the  Plants 
Dividing  plants  is  an  operation  that  takes  considerable  practice  to  master.  The 
violet  grows  in  crowns,  small  plants  within  themsehes,  which  can  be  separated  easily, 
since  all  the  leaves  of  one  crown  turn  in  the  same  general  direction.  A  perfect  crown 
has  its  own  full  rosette  or  circle  of  leaves,  but  sometimes  the  parts  of  a  two-crown  plant 
grow  "back  to  back,"  and  the  rosette  of  each  cannot  be  seen  until  they  are  divided. 
Extreme  care  must  always  be  taken  in  dividing,  as  the  shock  to  the  root  system 
can  be  disastrous.  It  is  wise  to  watch  an  expert  the  first  few  times.  The  crown  can  be 
gently  pulled  apart,  or  severed  with  a  very  sharp  knife.  Always  divide  the  plant  when 
there  are  few  or  no  blooms,  so  that  the  strength  of  the  severed  plant  can  go  into  new 
roots,  and  the  shock  will  be  lessened. 
Until  you've  actually  owned  a  blooming  violet,  you  won't  be  able  to  understand 
fully  the  almost  fantastic  popularity  of  this  particular  plant.  Yet  one  violet  seldom 
satisfies,  and  usually  the  growing  of  violets  expands  into  a  most  delightful  hobby.

QJor  cJhis  (^ause 
Emily  Wilkeison 
ETTA  was  a  big  girl  now  with 
children  of  her  own.  But  try 
as  hard  as  she  might,  her 
tears  came  sliding  down  her  cheeks. 
Her  folks  were  selling  the  old  home, 
and  it  was  a  siege  of  nostalgia  that 
took  her  speeding  out  from  her 
home  in  town.  The  thoughts  that 
kept  sweeping  across  her  mind 
caused  a  rough  lump  to  form  in  her 
throat. 
She  stopped  the  car  on  the  park- 
ing in  front  of  the  big  bridge  and 
leaned  forward  on  the  wheel,  look- 
ing at  the  big  house  and  the  sur- 
rounding yard. 
''I  wonder  what  other  people 
think  when  they  look  at  it?"  she 
asked  herself.  'They  don't  have 
memories  of  flower  beds  blooming, 
that  are  now  gone.  That  fence  once 
was  the  pride  of  the  whole  family, 
with  its  even  row  of  peeled  cedar 
posts— look  at  it  stagger  and  sway 
in  the  wind  now.'' 
Her  eyes  followed  the  row  of  rose- 
bushes which  had  grown  to  uneven 
heights,  the  limbs  fallen  from  trees 
tangled  in  their  tops. 
''No,  people  looking  at  it  would 
not  feel  a  warm  love  for  the  old 
moldy  things  that  have  been  so 
treasured  by  me,"  she  decided. 
She  got  out  of  the  ear  and  started 
up  the  walk. 
The  stone  steps  that  led  into  the 
house  were  chipped  and  worn.  It 
was  a  funny  thing  how  people  let 
things  go  that,  a  few  years  back, 
they  would  have  thought  were  ter- 
rible. As  she  went  on  into  the 
house  she  noticed,  for  the  first  time. 
that  her  mother  no  longer  kept  the 
corners  dusted  and  shining  as  she 
used  to  do.  Maybe  I  should  help 
her  more,  she  thought.  Her  father 
was  leaning  over  a  large  box  of 
books,  nailing  the  top  on  ready  to 
ship  to  the  new  apartment  in  town. 
"Well,  Etta,  I  am  glad  you  came. 
Seems  a  bit  more  than  your  mother 
and  I  can  do  to  get  these  things  to- 
gether before  the  movers  come  to 
haul  them  away." 
Now  the  movers  had  gone,  and 
her  father's  car  was  racing  on  down 
the  road  to  the  new  home.  She 
wandered  through  the  empty  rooms 
looking  at  the  bare  walls  and  floors. 
She  came  to  the  bedroom  where  she 
and  Joe  had  lived  when  they  were 
first  married;  Ronnie  had  been  born 
there.  The  walls  still  held  the  wall- 
paper that  Joe  had  put  on  them  fif- 
teen years  ago.  How  hard  he  had 
worked  to  finish  that  room  in  time 
to  make  it  pretty  and  comfortable 
for  her  and  the  new  baby! 
Etta  could  see  her  mother  stand- 
ing at  the  foot  of  her  bed,  where  she 
had  suffered  with  her;  but  Etta 
couldn't  do  anything  about  it  now, 
the  time  was  past.  It  had  taken 
until  after  Ronnie  had  started  to 
school  and  Etta  had  five  more  chil- 
dren before  she  had  felt  that  the 
children  were  really  her  own.  They 
had  seemed  to  be  her  mother's,  and 
as  if  she  were  only  tending  them. 
Big  scars  on  the  walls,  where  little 
Joey  had  poked  holes  with  a  play 
sword  once  when  he  was  visiting 
his    grandparents,    didn't    look    so 
Page  665

666 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER   1955 
hideous  today.  She  wondered  why 
her  mother  hadn't  covered  them  up. 
She  saw  the  worn  floors,  where 
many  httle  feet  had  traveled  over 
the  doorsills,  wearing  them  thin. 
Those  httle  feet  were  big  feet  now, 
and  they  were  wearing  trails  down 
the  river  of  time. 
She  came  out  into  the  late  spring 
sunset  and  made  sure  the  door  was 
locked  behind  her.  Then  a  heavy 
lump  came  again  in  her  throat,  and 
she  walked,  aching  to  stay,  across 
the  lawn  to  the  car.  Everything 
wanted  to  recall  to  her  all  that  had 
ever  happened  in  her  life  and  plant 
her  again  a  child  right  here.  She 
wept  silently.  Well,  maybe  there 
was  something  to  this  after  all: 
...  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures  in 
heaven  ....  For  where  your  treasure  is, 
there  will  your  heart  be  also  (Mt. 
6:20-21). 
She  knew  she  couldn't  take  the 
farm  with  her,  and  that  she  couldn't 
run  it  by  herself.  Her  father  had 
reached  the  milestone  where  he  no 
longer  could  labor  so  hard.  The 
glowing  sun  seemed  to  be  a  little 
brighter  just  before  it  sank  behind 
the  western  horizon. 
Etta  slipped  the  key  into  the  slot 
and  started  the  car. 
3;«    ?;«    5;<:    jjc    )|« 
I7TTA  reminded  herself  that  life 
is   a   moving   thing,    something 
that  goes  on  and  on  and  that,  liv- 
ing or  dying,  we  are  continually  leav- 
ing something  dear  behind  us.  Her 
mother  had  often  told  her  to  look 
forward  and  never  back.  How  many 
times  had  she  said,  ''Etta,  you  can't 
pick  up  your  tracks,  but  watch  care- 
fully where  you  make  new  ones." 
Etta  looked  at  her  own  neat  little 
garage  as  she  parked  the  car.  The 
shining  kitchen  floor  smiled  a  gleam- 
ing welcome  as  she  entered  the 
house.  How  homey  the  yellow 
organdy  curtains  looked.  ''Home," 
she  whispered,  "new  steps  that  Joe 
and  1  have  taken  together." 
What  was  it  her  father  had  said 
to  her  the  first  night  after  they  were 
married? 
For  this  cause  shall  a  man  leave  father 
and  mother,  and  shall  cleave  to  his  wife: 
and  they  twain  shall  be  one  flesh  .  .  . 
(Mt.  19:5). 
Etta  looked  out  the  window  to 
see  the  big  welding  truck  stop  in 
front  of  the  house.  She  saw  Joe 
climb  out  in  his  dirty  coveralls.  No 
longer  did  she  hate  the  coveralls, 
but  she  loved  the  strong  character 
that  shone  throughout  the  lines  of 
toil  in  Joe's  dear  face.  She  started 
placing  the  dishes  on  the  table  for 
supper,  knowing  the  children  would 
be  flocking  in,  and  feeling  a  deep 
contentment  to  plot  new  steps  for- 
ever forward. 
cJhe   y^yrnament 
Thelma  J.  Lund 
The  ornament  upon  my  desk, 
Around  which  copper  plate  is  pressed. 
Was  once  a  wrinkled  leather  shoe 
That  held  a  baby  foot,  and  knew 
Her  first  attempt  to  stand  alone 
And  capture  freedom  for  her  own.
