[Vol42 | October 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: For | Author: Wilkerson]
["For This Cause" Emily Wilkerson]

As a result of constant abrasion, every grain of sand is glasssmooth and spherical; and after a day of skimming over the dunes, the running surfaces of the skis are said to be even more highly polished than before. Flora and fauna of the Sands area, as well as the rich historical back- 655 ground of the region, are skillfully portrayed and described in the small museum at Monument headquarters. 'The manner in which both plant and animal life have met the challenge of the dunes is especially fascinating. As any dark-colored object is extremely conspicious against the gleaming white sand, all insects or animals of dusky hue become glaring targets for their enemies. This fact, presumably, has worked as a natural program of selection, with only the lighter-colored members surviving until several all-white, or nearly-white, forms have developed. Thus the Monument presents the unique spectacle of white spiders, white lizards, and snow-white pockNell Murbarger EARLY MORNING, WHITE SANDS NATIONAL MONUMENT, NEW MEXICO 656 et mice. Even an all-white coyote was reported here over a period of several years. In the lava beds, immediately north of the White Sands, some of the same species have developed forms nearly black in coloration. Along the outer fringe of the dunes area every morning finds an intricate tracery of small neat tracks formed by lizards, birds, mice, skunks, rabbits, and other small creatures; but even the boldest of these penetrate only a short way into the wilderness of the dunes. In the extreme heart of the sands, there ls said to occur no vestige of animal or insect life. One of the greatest mysteries of the Monument is that any form of plant life is able to exist in these gypsum dunes, which contain no trace of nitrogen, generally regarded as an absolute necessity for plant growth. Most logical of. The several theories advanced in this connection, is that the several species of plants which thrive in these environs must be provided by nature with some unknown means of manufacturing their own supply of this vital element. Another factor that lends interest to dune-dwelling plants is their adaptability to a highly unstable, ever-shifting world. Since there is no possibility of retaining a foothold in the thirty-mile-long windrows of drifted gypsum crystals, such plants must anchor their roots in the solid flat beneath the dunes. Thus, in order to keep their crowns above the smothering sands, they must be able to lengthen their stems, as required. One species of plant that has proven itself especialRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1955 ly adaptable in this regard is the yucca, or Spanish bayonet. Although the type of yucca common to the Monument is but normally three or four feet in height, this process of elongation to escape the higher-climbing sands here has resulted in fantastic specimens with necks as much as fifty feet in length! Viewed against a background of wind-rippled dunes, the grotesque forms exhibited by the yuccas have especial fascination for photographers. Due to the extreme glare of hight on the crystalline sands, unfortunately, shutterbugs unfamiliar with the White Sands, almost invariably overexpose their films. This same light reflection, naturally, can effect a serious sunburn; and even on partially-cloudy days, dark sunglasses should be worn as _ protection to the eyes. Persons who spend fairly long periods in the dunes without such protection, often suffer the same ill effects as are produced by snowblindness. Except for a refreshment concession in the headquarters area and a free picnic ground equipped with tables, fire grills, and pole boweries for shade, the Monument provides no. Accommodations for eating or lodging. Good motels, hotels, and restaurants are available, however, at Alamogordo, only fifteen miles distant. Geographically, White Sands National Monument is situated a little more than 100 miles north of El Paso, from which point it is reached via paved highways, U. S. 54 and 70. From Albuquerque, about 250 miles to the north, the Park is best approached via U. S. 85, 380, 54, and 70+ THE GREAT WHITE SANDS In addition to viewing the Great White Sands, visitors will doubtless wish to include sidetrips to numer: ous other points of interest in the vicinity. An hour's drive to the east of the Monument lies the high Sacramento Mountain region, with its abundance of tall pines, deer, and scenic vistas. A short distance to the north, les the forbidding black waste of the lava beds, where once-molten rock is now hardened in grotesque and picturesque splendor; and Mescalero Apache Indian Reservation, nearby, is "home" to part of this once-fierce tribe of warriors. Although clinging to a number of their ancient ceremonies and ways, the Apaches have adopted 657 most of the customs of their white brothers and now engage profitably in cattle ranching and farming. And, of course, no student of frontier lore will want to miss colorful "Old Lincoln Town" where, seventy-five years ago, a lusty page of Western history was written by the youthful outlaw, Billy the Kid, and the bloody Lincoln County War. Further inquiries concerning the fascinating vacation-land of the White Sands and its environs, may be addressed to the Monument Custodian, Alamogordo, New Mexico, or to the Chambers of Commerce either there, or at Las Cruces, New Mexico.