[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. An earthquake in northern Japan in February took a toll of over 3,000 lives. Floods did great damage to life and property in China during February. Fifty-two babes lost their lives in a fire at a children's home at Grey's nunnery, Montreal, Canada, in Februarv-. The passenger ship Floi-icel was wrecked in a storm off Cape Race, N. S., in February, with a loss of ninety-two lives. British air raids, in rerpisal for German air raids over England, caused much damage in Germany during February. Mexico has confiscated the holdings of the "Mormon" colonists in Chih\iahua; and the Mexican troubles are not ended yet. Calvin Smith, son of President Joseph F. Smith, is now a U. S. army chaplain with the troops at American Lake, Washino'ton. A branch railway, from Lynnhyl, through Fillmore and Meadow, to Kanosh, Utah, is promised to be under construction by May first. Aviator mail service between New York and Philadelphia was agreed on by the government postofifice department, to commence in March. Russian soldiers' and workmen's delegates acceded to the German peace terms, but Russia's disintegration as a world-power goes steadily on. The American embassy found it necessary to remove from Petrograd the last of February, owing to the German advance toward the Russian capital. Distillation of oil from shale is being developed extensively inUtah, and those engaged in the work predict that it will be an economic success. 222 RELIEF SOCtETY MAGAZINE. Three bomrs were found during February, in the German prisoners' quarters at Fort Douglas, Salt Lake City, evidently to be used in an attempt to escape. Pneumonic plague, one of the most dangerous and difficult of known diseases to cope with, has broken out in northern China, and claims hosts of victims. One delivery a day has been adopted as a rule by the big merchants in Salt Lake City and Ogden. This will mean a considerable saving to the merchants. Peace talk is still freely indulged in by many American newspapers. Yet there can be no real peace until the menace of German militarism actually is removed. American troops in France were heavily "gassed" in a German attack on February 27, resulting in several deaths, and much suffering by fifty or sixty soldiers. Russia, as a new kingdom under Alexandra, the mother of the late czar, is said to be the German aim for that country. This would give great assistance to the Teutonic powers. Seven Indians were arrested in Tooele county, in February, for opposing the draft registration among their people. The U. S. marshal had a company of troops from Fort Douglas to effect the arrest. A NEW government loan is scheduled for April, and the Red Cross will want another billion dollars in May; so there will be plenty of retrenchment necessary in order to raise needed funds for the war. Waste of money in government shipbuilding affairs in the United States has been uncovered to a very great extent by congressional investigation. The results show that the inquiry was not started too early. Four American sentries on the battle line in France fell asleep at their posts during February, and were sentenced to death. Their cases have been referred to the war department at Washington for final disposal. The browning rifle  invention of J. M. Browning of Ogden, Utah was tested thoroughly at trial grounds near Washington D.C., CURRENT TOPICS. 223 on February 27, and is declared by military men to be "the finest weapon in the world." Japan now finds it necessary to enter Siberia to prevent great military supplies, furnished by America and her allies, falling into the German hands. Thus the Jap has his opportunity for a long-desired continental empire in Asia. France, Great Britain and Germany are all short of food, but the Germans have secured a new supply from Russia. The neutral nations of Europe seem to be little, if any, better off for food thgin are the nations that are at war. At Jerusalem, one of the fatalities during the British attack was that of Aleck Cushion, of Suffolk, England, a young "Mormon" in the British army, who was killed by Turkish fire while his regiment was storming a Turkish position. Jericho, in Palestine, was taken by British forces on February 25. The Australian troops are said to have been the first to reach and cross the Jordan. The British now have a firm line across Palestine from the Dead Sea to the Mediterranean. President Wilson had to interfere, and put an end to the ship carpenter's strike on the Atlantic seaboard, in February, as it threatened the government shipbuilding operations. Common ship carpenters demand from $7.00 to $9.00 a day for eight hours work. Wheat prices for 1918 have been fixed by President Wilson at $2.20 per bushel in Chicago. Yet farmers must pay from $4.00 to $7.00 a day for common farm labor. Looks like the war prices hit the farmers worse than any other class of individuals. Gospel preaching to the nations generally, by "Mormon" missionaries, has come nearly to a standstill for the time being, through the great war; but among American and British troops there is aofgreat soldiers the Cross.number of young "Mormons" who also are valiant Flour used by bakeries for bread is required by the U. S. food administration to be mixed with 20 per cent of wheat substitutes. It is a serious question with dietists whether such a mixture in the same loaf is not injurious to health, especially for growing children.