[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Gospel Standard (Music) B. Cecil Gates]

The Gospel Standard J. K. R. B. Cecil Gates 1. The Gospel standard high is raised, On Zi on's sa cred 2. Earth to its love li ness restored, Shall echo back the shore; Rejoice, ye Saints our God be praised, Proud Satan's reign is strains From thousand heav'nly choirs poured When Christ in triumph "The bright millennium dawns at reigns. The bright millennium dawns free, last, The faithful shall be be: 1: 
 free, Christ will re ward their trials Christ will reward their trials past, With immortality. rit.  THE WILD SUN-FLOWER By Maud Baggarley. Brave flower of the desert ways That clothes in beauty parched and dreary fields, Thy spirit yields Unto my soul A measure of its fortitude, For this I know: That One who bade thee forth to go Earth's darkness to illume, That One who had the thought divine To hide the ugliness and gloom Of Earth With glory such as thine, Can kindle in my heart a flame of light That through its high divinity Shall make The whole wide world more bright! In His Steps. (A tribute to the work of the Woman's Relief Society.) Not all battles in life are fought at the front, Not all vict'ries are won by the sword: Greater combats are waged against sickness and want Than the annals of bloodshed record.. For they who fight poverty, drive away grief, And aid the diseased and distressed, Are bearing the cause of their Master and Chief Who laid it on Calvary's crest. 'Tis woman's true nature  her glory and grace  To be loving and tender and kind: So God in His wisdom reserved her a place Where her gifts fullest freedom may find. In His Church He has work that is fitted to all,^ ' To those with one talent or ten. And to women is given as sacred a call A,s ever was given to men: Go visit the bedside of sick and diseased, For they were His special concern: In soothing their sorrows His Spirit is pleased. And thy kindness tenfold shall return. Go comfort the aged  ^whose feeble feet press The verge of Eternity's shore: That the evening shadows of life may grow less. And the dawn-light of heaven grow more. Go watch o'er the dying (the angels are there To guide the lone spirit from earth). ThyAndloveremember he'll extolit inin his his last new mortal birth. prayer, Thy Lord has completed His mission below, And called thee to work in His stead. As angels of mercy His tenderness show To the living and dying and dead. "Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace, As I cared for the poor, so do ye, And if ye do good to the least among these. Ye verily do it to Me." David J. Watts. Remember the firms that are true to the Magazine Dear Sister: We wish to call your special attention to our aovertifcing pages. i They contain the business announcements of \ery good friends of ours. It is the adveitisers who our Relief Society Magazine to help (pSTflti grow. Patronize them. We can vouch for those who take space J^allijMadefbrAailicalMl with us, as W2 solicit advertiseMAMUmCTURlB at f THE INLAND | ments from none but the strongest and most reputable companies. CRYTSTA SAL CO. L > "Stand by the firms that stand SALTLAKEcrry by us." Relief Society Magazine. UTAH ' THE Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 UTAH STATE i yhe al BankUuh features State Nationquick NATIONAL. BANK S.M.TAYLOR &Co. and efficient Service. SAir LAKE CITY Undertakers and Erabalmers One feature is the Unit Successors to Joseph E. Taylor System which greatly The Pioneer Undertaker of the West sitnp'idet transactions. Fifty-three years in one location  r\er Joseph F. Smith, President 251-257 East First South Street Heber J. Grant.