[Vol5 | April 1918 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: A Quitter - Almost Edna Coray]

A Quitter Almost. By Edna Coray. It was nearly a facer for Ada Varley. A week had now passed  or was it a year?  and she was beginning to realize the enormity of the mishap that had brought her to the hospital and incidentally changed the whole aspect of her life. The attending physician, in response to her insistent demand, had told her the exact truth about her condition, and like a death knell to all her hopes his reluctant words still rang in her ears: "The burns upon your arm, neck and face will probably leave permanent scars, but we are not yet sure whether the sight of your left eye is destroyed. However, the right one is uninjured and if it should have to do double service, it will become stronger than ever." "What about my left hand?" she had anxiously inquired. "My girl, I fear that you may not regain the use of the fingers, as the nerves and tendons are so deeply burned." "Then I can never play my violin again!" she moaned, and in unutterable chagrin had tried to grasp the overwhelming fact. That was three days ago; since then, she had scarcely slept or eaten. The kindly nurse had wheeled her chair over to the window, and having placed within reach a small table laden with various tokens from sympathetic friends, had left her alone for a while. A tall vase of pink carnations, towering above sundry cards, bon bons and magazines, claimed her chief attention just now. A letter had accompanied the flowers, and she drew it from her pocket for another reading. "My dear Ada," it ran, "I feel very much abused, not to say affronted, by your persistent disinclination to receive any visitors, not even me, though you must know I have suffered tortures of anxiety and suspense since your accident, because you and your welfare are of the most intimate concern to me. The orchestra is all broken up about you, and when I glance at your vacant chair near my piano, I've got to turn away quick to keep from losing myself completely." With a moaning sigh, she left off reading. The following sentences were full of tender suggestiveness that needed but a word of encouragement from her to become very personal indeed. What could  what dared she say to him now! He had not the least idea what a frightful difference had been made in her viewpoint. Disfigured, blinded, and crippled, she could no longer aspire to any man's love, much less that of Joe Cirrol, her musical A QUITTER ALMOST. 191 playmate and best friend. No, she would not allow him to commit himself further. She would write merely a courteous acknowledgment, casually referring to her present plight and the consequent necessity of changing her plans for the future. She would make it clear that she expected to fight her own way in life's battle, but, of course, would give him no hint of the magnitude of her renunciation. The thought of this was overpowering, and in dumb, tearless misery she crumpled down among her supporting pillows, Joe's letter crushed against her breast, and her heart literally ready to break. Hearing the door of her room opened, she feigned sleep, hoping to be left undisturbed. She felt the nurse's light touch upon her wrist and cheek, and from underneath her eyelashes saw the white clad attendant turn to the little table and place something upon it, then quietly leave. Alone again, Ada listlessly glanced at the table and saw a small vial, evidently just left by the nurse. The next moment she was staring in surprise, for she had caught sight of the ominous insignia of skull and crossbones upon the label, and in curious wonderment picked up the bottle for closer inspection. There were some cabalistic letters and figures, but no other marks of identification, and she gazed at the dark liquid in a sort of fascination. Suddenly an idea shot through her apathetic brain that galvanized it into instant alertness: "Poison! Here is a way out! This will solve all heart-breaking problems! Fate has been kind to me after all. Oh Death, thou hast no sting! Long life to you!" Her trembling hand with difficulty replaced the vial in its former position, then she drowsily settled back in her chair. A delicious restfulness permeated her being. Harrowing thoughts no longer weighed down her buoyant spirit. Physical discomfort was gone. The memory of friends and associates became hazy, and gradually faded into nothingness. Sometime later she was roused by voices just outside her door, and like a child about to be caught in mischief, Ada yielded to the impulse to run away from impending chastisement. Starting up, she was astonished at finding herself floating in midair, while before her in the chair lay a crumpled human shape with bandaged head and arm  was that her own maimed, discarded body? Someone was about to enter the room, and with an exultant laugh she projected herself like a beam of light through the window and out into space. A bird escaping from a narrow cage to the freedom of field and forest, sea and sky, could feel no more glorious exhilaration and exaltation than she now felt, as, by the 
 power of her own will, she sailed away to explore the mysterious ethereal realm beyond Earth's stifling confines. On and on she flew with the speed of light, through unmeasured distance, and at last beheld the radiant mirage of a great city whose domes, towers and embattlements sparkled and gleamed like bejewelled silver and gold. As she advanced, the mirage imperceptibly blended into the reality, and faint sounds of music reached her. These grew more distinct each moment, until as she neared a splendid gateway, the soft air was vibrant with ecstatic music accompanied by musical instruments in a rhapsody of praise and thanksgiving. Through the open gateway, which seemed to be framed with living light, she saw a part of a brilliant pageant moving slowly along, and among the white clad choristers she recognized her parents and other loved ones. In rapturous anticipation she rushed toward them, calling out to them in the hope they would see and wait for her. Startled, they turned about, and recognizing her drew back in shocked surprise and evident displeasure. At the same instant a lattice of flaming bars was slid across the entrance way, blocking her passage, and a stern sentry stepped forward demanding her passport. At her outcry of disappointment and dismay, the loved ones beyond the shining portal cast her one reproachful, almost contemptuous look and resumed their place in the stately procession. Imploringly she turned to the relentless gate-keeper, but he waved her back saying, "Who summoned you hither? Show me your passport." Shamefacedly she confessed that she had none. "Then you cannot enter. You would have had one if you had completed your probation on Earth. Go back and finish it." "But I have left my body, and " "You must remain with it until you are summoned. You had no right to come here uninvited. Begone!" At his mandatory gesture a lightning bolt flashed past her, creating a resistless current that swept her away from the flame-barred gate, and carried her swiftly back over the way she had come. Down, down, through cloud and shadow, back toward the dismal earth; on past wandering bands of jeering spirits, some of whom followed her with merciless taunts and scurrility to the very threshold of the hospital where she had left her ignominious flight. An invisible cable seemed dragging at her feet, and she realized that it was attached to a dead weight that she could in nowise move. In horror and unspeakable remorse she knew that the ghastly anchor was the body of flesh and bone that she tried to cast off before the allotted time. A QUITTER ALMOST. 193 Wearily dragging the heavy, though invisible cable after her, she re-entered the hospital room whence she had fled so jubilantly not many hours, or was it only minutes, ago. Everything was just as she had left it evidently no one had entered the room since her surreptitious departure, for the body was undisturbed. Presently it would be discovered and  buried! Oh, then she would have to keep her wretched vigil alone in the cemetery  helplessly anchored there until her allotted time on earth was spent, and the Power that governed all things should sever the cruel cable and release her! Meanwhile, she would be tormented not only by her remorse of conscience, but by the horrible "wandering spirits" that mocked her plight! How many years of such torture might be ahead! Oh, how worse than imbecile had been her rashness in flinging off a life that, though fearfully handicapped, need not have been a failure! She could now see many fields of usefulness  even happiness  that might have been available, the very least of which would have been a rare joy compared with the condition in which she was now. What a coward she had been! Joe would be ashamed of ever having been her friend and his spirit, honorably released, would spurn hers as those of her loved ones in heaven had just now done. In the words of another murderer, her whole being cried out in agony: "My punishment is greater than I can bear!" and flinging herself down beside her inert body, she abandoned herself to her supreme suffering. "Miss Varley, a party on the telephone insists upon speaking to you a moment, if you feel able to answer." The nurse's quiet words reached Ada's numbed consciousness as from a great distance, and it was a long moment before she could realize where she was  whether in spirit or in body; but the sight of her own bandaged hand and the crumpled letter in her lap helped to recall her dazed senses at once. A furtive glance at her table assured her that only the friendly offerings were, or had been, there, and a great joy and thankfulness flooded her soul. She had been granted another chance to make good! "Thank you, nurse," she brightly responded, "I am feeling especially well, and will be very pleased to answer the call." The nurse's face betrayed her agreeable surprise, for she had probably expected the sullen negative as usual. Quickly adjusting the extension cord, she handed Ada the receiver-transmitter and left her alone. The unspeakable gladness of her soul was reflected by the tones of her greeting to her "party." Joe's glad voice exultantly answered: "At last! Oh, how good it was to hear that voice again! I've only a moment to talk now, but won't you please let me visit you this evening before the show? I have such great news, and other things to talk about. You'll let me come, won't you?" "Why certainly, if you like," responded Ada a shade more cordially than she intended to. "Well I do like  heaps  and  thank you! I'll be there on the stroke of six, so I'll have two precious hours before I have to be at the theatre. Meanwhile, think of this: You won't need to give up your violin!" "Oh Joe! surely they've told you that  " "They've told me everything. I know the history of the 'case' from A to izzard, so there's not a thing left for you to tell me  except something I'll ask  when I see you. Bye bye!" "Wait Joe! what can you mean  about the violin?" "Just this: you are going to reverse the strings, and teach your right hand to take the place of your left, which can manage the bow alright. Lots of left-handed people do that all the time, didn't you think of that?" "Oh no! Joe, you are  just splendid!" "Thanks. Good bye till six. I must go now." When the nurse looked in a few minutes later, she gave a startled exclamation at sight of Ada sobbing hysterically. "Not bad news, Miss Varley, I hope! Can't you tell me?" "N-no, nurse d-dear, but it's not bad news  I'm so happy, I'm almost d-dead, that's all!"