Honor Banquet Tendered to President Clarissa Smith Williams The president's suite at the Hotel Utah at noon Wednesday, December 19, 1928, was witness of another festal occasion. Those of us who took part naturally wondered if a more pleasant banquet had ever been held in those historic rooms. The occasion was an honor banquet to President Clarissa Smith Williams tendered by the members of the General Board. As it was nigh to the Christmas season the table decorations reflected the coming event. A centerpiece in green and red arrested and held the attention of guests throughout the banquet. From it extended streamers of red satin ribbon to the place card and cover of each of the guests. At each plate was a program bearing the inscription "banquet in honor of President Clarissa Smith Williams" and following that was a portrait of her with the following inscription: 'Banquet in honor of President Clarissa Smith Williams given by the General Board of EDITORIAL 81 Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, December 19, 1928, Hotel Utah." Following this was the menu, then the program, then the names of the members of the General Board. Every detail of the banquet was carried forth in the same well directed manner as characterized the decorations. The general committee consisted of President Louise Y. Robison, her counselors, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Mrs, Julia A. Child, and the General Secretary, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund. President Robison and Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon were perhaps most responsible for the outlining of the program. Their idea was to have every member of the General Board take part and this idea was carried out to the very letter. The guests were President Williams, her daughters and daughters-in-law and the members of the General Board. The decoration and entertainment committee consisted of Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Elise B. Alder. The printed programs were in the hands of a committee consisting of Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, Miss Alice L. Reynolds and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. The program was introduced by greetings from President Louise Y. Robison, who introduced as the toastmistress of the occasion Mrs, Jennie B. Knight. Mrs. Knight said that President Williams' work made her think of the beautiful tapestry made in France at the Gobelin factory. It took a year to make a square yard and a number of years to complete a large piece, but when completed the design was perfect and the tapestry outlives the centuries. She said this work of making tapestry suggested the work of President Williams. She has now completed her design and is leaving her beautiful work for the future to gaze upon. She said that along with the golden threads that had been woven into the pattern were blue threads put there by her daughters, her bluebirds of happiness. A pleasing feature of the program was the music under the direction of Mrs. Ida P. Beal. The first offering was a cello solo by Mrs. Margaret Lyman Schreiner, accompanied by her husband Mr. Alexander Schreiner. This was followed by a solo by Mrs. Ida P. Beal. Both musical numbers were received enthusiastically and were responded to by encores. An original reading by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon in lighter vein caused a good deal of merriment among the members of the Board. It was comprehensive enough to take in the entire Board. The toast to President Clarissa Smith Williams by Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund had to do with Mrs. Williams' work with national and patriotic organizations. This was followed by responses from Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Miss Alice L. Reynolds and Mrs. Elise B. Alder. This should have been followed by a tribute "To Mother" by a daughter of President Williams. This number failed because the daughter expecting to make the response had been called from the city because of illness. Then came a number  of responses under the head of periods of President Williams' Relief Society career. The Maiden 1873 to 1889 was spoken of by Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine. The Ward Worker, Teacher, Secretary, and President by Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford; Stake President by Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter; General Treasurer by Mrs. Emma A. Empey; Counselor to General President by Miss Sarah M. McLelland; and General President by Mrs. Julia A. Child. These responses all paid tribute to President Williams in the various offices she had held. Another touch of humor was added by Mrs. Inez K. Allen who responded to the toast "Tribulations of President Williams with Stake Presidents." After this came the response of Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman under the heading "One Word More." This proved to be a presentation to President Williams of a white gold wristwatch which bears her name and the date of presentation, and also the words presented by the General Board. In her address Mrs. Lyman detailed those qualities of mind and heart that make a leader of the first order, poise, vision, sane outlook, confidence in one's associates, and the power to push forward in well-directed lines. President Williams accepted the tributes modestly, saying as she listened to what the various Board members had to say that she thought they were talking about some woman who lived at the north pole. She expressed her appreciation in the pleasing manner which has been characteristic of her expressions of appreciation throughout her ministration. Then came the feature sponsored by the entertainment committee. The red streamers had locked innocent enough all through the banquet. No one suspected that they were more than very tasty Christmas decorations, but under the foliage of the beautiful centerpiece were hidden mysteries. President Robison was asked to draw her ribbon. She did so and discovered that at the end of it was attached a shovel, a rake and a hoe. This caused a lot of fun as it suggested the President's enthusiasm in the beautification and cleanup campaign. President Williams drew a little health nurse which suggested the Clarissa Smith Williams Health Nurse Fund. The tribute to Mrs. Lyman was featured in a little pioneer representing the fact that Mrs. Lyman had pioneered the social science work of the organization. A little house was drawn by Mrs. Julia A. Child. It suggested the fact that on one of her trips she was stranded where there were no habitations. The gift suggested that if she carried the little house along with her she might not lack for shelter. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund's gift was an Indian doll suggesting her interest in adult education, and Mrs. Jennie B. Knight was presented with a blooming cyclamen. Each member of the Board was presented with a little gift that was a reminder of something in her daily life. The members of the Board left the banquet with a feeling of satisfaction and gratification not only for the able administration of President Williams, but also that they had been given an opportunity of expressing their esteem and interest in her and in her work.
Alpha Eldredge Smoot
In this issue of the Magazine we are publishing a tribute by Congressman Don B. Colton to Mrs. Alpha Eldredge Smoot, wife of Senator Reed Smoot. In her position as wife of the Senator, Mrs. Smoot had it within her power to make a unique contribution to the women of the Church, and the opportunity that was hers she did not pass by. Many persons have wondered how Senator and Mrs. Smoot, with their responsibilities and multiplicity of duties, could manage to take into their home the great number of people they did. We recall that an unusually large number of the members of the General Board of the Relief Society have visited Washington to attend sessions of the National Council and of the International Council of Women. On these occasions as on other visits of a private nature, our representatives have either been cared for in the home or otherwise entertained in the most cordial manner. Your editor has several times had the opportunity to visit the city of Washington; on all such occasions we have had the most cordial treatment from Senator and Mrs. Smoot. Particularly were we appreciative in 1916 when trying to push forward the Federal Suffrage amendment. We could not help noting the fact that in some instances the Senators and their wives from some other states were not so cordial, and several times women from other states remarked when they observed the attention that we were accorded that it was not so in their case. We appreciated the courtesy extended; it made our visit delightful at the time and is now a precious memory.
So much for Mrs. Smoot as hostess. We now turn to the phase of her life emphasized in Congressman Colton's tribute, that of being put in a position when she first went to Washington where the prejudice and the ill-will which many people carry for a religion that is unpopular, was visited upon her head. Frequently, when she went on to the street, insinuating and disagreeable remarks were made that must have been very trying to her. It was undoubtedly an entirely new experience to her, born as she was in a family highly respected and married into a family greatly beloved in the community where she made her home. Mrs. Smoot bore these insults, for they can hardly be termed by any other name, bravely, and when the hour came that her husband's strength was demonstrated and he became recognized as one of the most capable members of the United States senate, she was then not able to take advantage of the full measure of his success in a social way, because of her impaired health.
In the particulars indicated, her life has been just a little different from that of other women in the Church; so that there is about her work a feature that is unique. She certainly pioneered in such a way that any other Senator's wife who follows her will not have to meet the unpleasant situations she met. Pioneering in the spiritual realm is just as important for progress as pioneering in the material realm. With deepest feelings of gratitude we pay this tribute to her and we know that women all over the Church will be moved by this same feeling of gratitude for what she has done on their behalf.