Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Minidoka Stake (Fly Campaign) The Minidoka stake Relief Societies last year conducted a very successful campaign against flies. Cooperation was asked of every housewife to help rid the community of the pest. The newspaper gave freely of its space for publicity purposes, and the movement had the support and backing of city and county officials. Early in April, stake and ward committees were organized for this work, consisting of the stake and ward executive committee. A request was sent to the Idaho representatives, in Washington, D. C., for 500 bulletins on "The house Fly and How to Suppress It." When the pamphlets came, a house to house canvass was made, and a copy of the little booklet, together with a chart on nutrition, were left at every home in the stake. While this was being done the stake committee secured a large quantity of air-slacked lime from the Paul Sugar Factory, through the courtesy of the Sugar company's field manager, President May. Mayor Beymer, who cooperated so readily with the movement, sent trucks to haul the lime to vacant lots in Rupert and adjacent towns, there to be distributed among the people. Everybody was asked to take a sack of lime from these piles on vacant lots and use it freely in outbuildings and all places where flies would be likely to breed. The newspaper of Rupert published each week through the Summer an article about the filthy fly. These articles recommended that all homes should be properly screened, and that fly traps should be used on the outside of the homes. Following is a sample of publicity which was used: Fightt THE Fly O little fly, O vermin small, Most deadly insect of them all,; To thee I write this little verse, Your life and habits to rehearse. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 193 In barnyard waste you had your birth: In rankest filth you came to earth; For baby's milk you then took wing, And on the food you tried to cling. Your feet were smeared with filth and slime, As on the table you did climb; And then you rubbed with impish glee, Your feet on all that you could see. Then, after feeding on the cake, A bath in cream you thought you'd take. You have no teeth, no fangs, no sting, Yet death to human lives you bring. You are the vilest of the vile; Our health, our life, you would defile. O, Imp of Satan, where you tread, Your path is filled with human dead. ?William A. Cole. A most successful teachers' convention was held on October 2, with good representation. The outline furnished by the General Board was used. A blue ribbon was offered to every teacher who had made her visits 100 per cent. It was found that seven teachers had never missed making a visit. The convention covered the whole day, and consisted of a program in the morning, a luncheon at noon, and a social in the afternoon. The stake adopted and forwarded to their representatives in the State Legislature a resolution petitioning the Legislature to build a suitable hospital at once for tuberculosis patients, the state of Idaho being the only one in the union that does not have a single tuberculosis bed. Social Service Institutes Very successful Social Service Institutes have been held during the winter months in the following stakes: