HYGIENIC NOTES.

	New Remedy for Wakefulness.—When the
mind is active, reasons Dr. John L. Cook, of Ken-
tucky, the brain is correspondingly active; we
breathe more frequently, and the movements of the
heart are more rapid and vigorous. On the other
hand, when the mind is at rest, as in healthy
sleep, the circulation in the brain is notably di-
minished, the heart-beats are less rapid and forci-
ble, and the breathing is perceptibly slower. In
the wakeful state the mind, as a rule, is intensely
occupied, whence we may infer an increased
amount of blood in the brain. Dr. Cook's sug-
gestion is to withdraw a portion of this from the
head, or lower the brain circulation, by taking
deep and slow inspirations—say twelve or fifteen
a minute. By this means the action of the heart,
pulses and brain is reduced, and very soon a quiet
feeling, ending in sleep, follows. The system
slows up like a railroad train when the locomotive
throws off steam. The imitation of sleep pro-
duces the reality. Probably, also, the effort of
changing the respiration diverts the mind, thus
promoting the desired end, as when one falls
asleep often against his will in listentng to con.
tinuous reading or public speaking. A remedy so
simple and natural, having none of the objections
of drugs, will commend itself to many sufferers
who will test its value by actual experiment.
	Night Dresses for Children.—A mother writing
in the 'Household' says that she made her little
one's night dresses of cotton flannel, with legs to
them, so that if he got uncovered he should not
take cold. Observing that he lost flesh and grew
cold towards morning, she called in a physician.
She continues—"He said that cotton flannel was
not the material for children, for when it gets wet
it clings to them and is cold as ice. He also de-
nounced the idea of making legs to the dresses;
said that the limbs should not be separated, but
should come together. His directions were to
make a night dress of flannel long enough to lie
on the floor half a yard, just like a big bag, run
a string in the bottom of this, and when the
child goes to bed tie it up. In this way the leg[-]
cannot get out, and there is perfect freedom of
motion. We did so at once, and it worked like a
charm. No more lying awake at nights and won-
dering what the trouble is. The little fellow
sleeps, soundly, and wakes in the morning refreshed
and with a good appetite."


FIRST school-girl (sweet eighteen) "I am
so tired of walking along by twos and twos
in this way! It's as bad as animals going
into the ark! Second ditto (ditto ditto)—
"Worse. Half of them were masculine!"


