TO MOTHERS.

	How often do we hear mothers complain
of the tax on strength and patience their
children are. I confess to have felt and
spoken similarly myself often, but the
thought soon gave way to another idea—
what well-spring of comfort they are, and
how dark the world would be without their
presence. I believe they in their innocence
are a great incentive to a holy life. The
little ones when yet without sin cause the
mother's heart to yearn for purity. She
cannot look into the sweet eyes and indulge
in anger or malice. Then when baby days
are over and the little ones can trot after
the mother using their sharp eyes and ears,
does it not make her careful that nothing
she may say or do, may stain the little one's
heart, who has not yet learned right from
wrong, to whom mother's doings are
perfect. How many lessons do we learn
from these little ones.
	A mother's lessons of faith taught through
her children is often more powerful than
all the world can do. In darkness or dan-
ger the little ones cling the closer to the
mother, fearing nothing because mother is
there, often this prompts her to prayer ask-
ing earnestly "Lord give me the faith in
Thee that these little ones have in me. If
we could but have the teachable spirit that
children have, how obedient we would be.
When the heart aches it would save us
many pangs, if the presence of the spirit
of God were enough for us as the mother is
for her children, we would indeed be at
peace. God is very gracious to us, and
when duties press hard upon us, He gives
us more strength and courage to endure if
we rely upon Him. It is surely a blessing
to be helped in our efforts to overcome evil
by our child's influence. If we are spared
to train up our children in the way they
should go, what a blessing we realize
through their refining and purifying influ-
ence. There is danger of the mother mak-
ing the child an idol, but this is of course
through wrong discipline; the mother
should preserve her character as tutor and
disciplinarian of the infant mind, yet hum-
ble herself as a child relying upon God,
that we and our children may gain an ex-
altation in His kingdom.
	ANN TATE.
Tooele City, Sept. 25, 1877.


