HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE "AMATEUR," Feb. 20, published in Og-
den City, has been received, and is a very
good number. We are glad to note the inter-
est now apparent in the Mutual Improvement
Associations, but there is still need of more
extended work in this field of labor, now open
as an avenue for elevation, mental and spirit-
ual, to the young of both sexes.
	WE HAVE received recently several letters
from ladies in the East who are among the ac-

[Column 2]

tive workers in reform, and they express them-
selves as much interested in the women of
Utah. They are anxious to become more ac-
quainted with them and the work they are do-
ing here. We publish in this issue in our edito-
rial columns, some of the sentiments of the la-
dies of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. We give space also to a Memorial to
Congress, which we consider a sermon in it-
self to all persons, young and old. We hope
it will be carefully perused by our patrons, and 
will open the eyes of some, who, having lived
all their lifetime in seclusion, are unsophisti-
cated in the ways of the world at large.
	REPORTS OF R. S. and Y. L. M. I. A. re-
ceived and laid over for future use are as fol-
lows: Eighth Ward, S. L. City; North Jordan
Ward, S. L. Co.; Kingston Plute Co.; VirginCity,
Kane Co.; Manti and Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete
Co. We have also an article entitled "Im-
provement," by Kate, and some poetry and
other items. We mention this, lest our con-
tributors might think we had not received
them. We would be glad to receive more ar-
ticles from the pens of our sisters, on any of
the various subjects which demand attention
and promote improvement, and a broader and
clearer range of thought; then we would be
able to make selections, and thereby elevate
our paper to a higher standard of literary ex-
cellence.
	WE HAD intended to publish, in this number,
some of the speeches made before the commit-
tee in Congress on the Woman Question, but
our paper is small, and we are obliged to keep
up with reports from women's organizations in
the various districts and settlements; but we
will note one or two items here, which have a 
special interest for us. The communications
from Washington tell us that Mr. Cannon, the
Delegate from Utah, was in the midst of a very
able argument against the passage of THE BILL,
when Mrs. Sara J. A. Spencer and Isabella
Beecher Hooker entered the Committee Room.
Mr. Cannon immediately gave way to Mrs.
Spencer, who took up the argument just as
Mr. Cannon was merging from the legal to the 
moral point of view, as relates to polygamy.
She suggested that the bill be made to apply
to both Mormon and Gentile, and wondered
how many men in the United States would be
qualified to cast the ballot, if faithfulness to
the marriage vow was made the standard.
	OUR EXCHANGES of last month have been
full of interest on the woman subject, as the
recent discussions in Congress, the Convention
in Washington, and the meeting in Boston all
have had considerable space devoted to a de-
scription of the work and the workers. "Wo-
man's Words contained many items of inter-
est, and a sketch and wood cut of Mrs. Sara J.
Andrews Spencer, with which we were well
pleased, and intend to re-publish the brief no-
tice of this eminent woman. Mrs. Mary A.
Reynolds, of this city, has a letter in the Feb-
ruary No. of this paper, in which she has spok-
en for the women of Utah in a praiseworthy
manner. Such testimonies of appreciation of
the franchise must certainly be productive of
good abroad. With the "Woman's Journal"
of Feb. 16, we received a supplement, giving in
full the argument of William I. Bowditch, styled
"Tax-Payer's Hearing." It gives many histo-
rical facts, and is an ably written article in de-
fense of "Taxation without Representation."
	THE TWENTY-THIRD session of the Utah
Legislature closed its assembly on Saturday
morning, Feb. 23d, the Friday evening session


commencing at seven o'clock, and continuing
up to that time. There has been a great deal
of business dispatched during this term. Some
excellent bills have been passed, among which
are the revenue and election bills. Several
bills have been introduced that have passed
both Houses, and been vetoed, or remained
without the Governor's signature. Probably
His Excellency, Governor Emery, has done as
well as any man could have done, under the
combination of peculiar circumstances. One
bill, which was designed to make women eligi-
ble to certain offices, such as Superintendents
of schools, &c., the Governor refused to sign,
after it had passed both Houses. We do not
wish to judge in this matter, but we cannot
understand why, in a Territory where women
have had the suffrage eight years, and have
proved themselves capable of maintaining the
ballot without becoming extremists, they may
not be allowed office such as they are qualified
to fill. It seems to us it would have been an
act of nobility in Gov. Emery to put his sig-
nature to that bill, and he would certainly
have won laurels for himself by so doing, in
our humble estimation. As an example of
woman's curiosity, we would like to find out
why he didn't sign that bill?


