SPECIAL LIFE-MISSIONS

	Sometime recently in the writings of an
eminently popular and learned man; we read,
"The greatest nuisance in society, at the pres-
ent time, is a woman who thinks she has a
special mission." The writer elaborated the
subject, and gave it all the benefit of his man-
nish style of ridicule and witticism, "These
women," said he, "force themselves into all
sorts of places, and speak and harangue upon
all sorts of unwomanly topics." In short, he
inferred that the TONE of society was being de-
stroyed by "THESE WOMEN," who were contin-
ually asking for constitutional rights (as they
termed them), and crying out for reform.
	So every woman, every mother, every sister,
"whose soul is pained with wrong and out-
rage with which earth is filled," who feels in
her inmost heart that she is fitted to labor for
some noble object, by the inspiration of high
and holy impulses, to put her hand to the wheel
that is propelling society and humanity down-
wards, and assist in arresting the tendency to
destruction of life and health, must brave the
odium of public opinion, and incur the risk of
losing caste with modern society. It requires
the urgent demands of a special mission to in-
duce women who shrink from all that is coarse,
low, and corrupt, to stem the the current of
tradition and long continued custom, and
stand fearlessly for the rights of legal protec-
tion, for the wrongs and indignities perpetrated
upon the unfortunate and unsophisticated,
left without the means of redress, and plunged
lower and lower in the sloughs of iniquity.
It is of little use to enumerate the catalogue of
crimes in which men are the chief actors and
women the real sufferers, but suffice it to say,
there is a mission for some women at the pres-
ent time, arousing them to take a decided
stand for the liberty which will break the
shackles of custom, and lead them into a
broader field of usefulness.
	When men complain of special missions for
women, let them refer to the historical records
of all ages, and see whether there have not
been, in every eventful time, women with
special missions. And in many instances
these missions have been actually given from
God. Men seem afraid to trust woman to mark
out her own course of action, yet will acknow-
ledge that woman's suggestions are general-
ly wise in any emergency where the de-
mand for intuition is almost imperative. If
woman has so much wisdom to counsel others,
if her advice is judicious and her influence
salutary, then why may she not be capable of
acting out her own nature, expressing her own
views, instead of doing so by proxy through

[Column 2]

her husband, her brother, or some friend? A
good instance of this proxy work came under
our observation when only a little girl, in the
wife of our village pastor.
	We can but deplore the condition of things
that gives woman so little scope, so narrow a
compass, and accords to man all the space for
his powers, and all the honors which the wife
has helped him to attain.
	From all such abject slavery woman will
yet be emancipated. It is this longing for
freedom that is inspiring some women of all
the various conditions in life, to make war
against the bondage with which they have
been enslaved, and seek, by every available
means, to inspire a universal feeling among
men and women for equal rights and privi-
leges in the sphere God has assigned them. In
this age, rife with improvements, and new dis-
coveries and inventions, it cannot be expected
that woman will stand still, making no pro-
gress. Woman is sensitively alive to the impe-
tus of the grand movements that are distinct-
ive features of the Nineteenth Century. Her
place is beside man in all that tends to better
the condition of mankind.
	Social life is considered to take its tone
mostly from women; then if such is the case
there is need of woman's advancement. The
object of woman's suffrage is not to destroy
men's influence for good, but to make it doubly
strong by woman's co-operation and efficient
help. There are yet plenty of women silly
enough to drink in all the praise and flatttery
of men, and find only too late, that it was all
"words, words, empty words." Recently, "A
very eminent man of letters;" (says a writer
in the Quarterly Review) frankly avowed that
his beau ideal of a mistress, or a wife, was a
pretty woman who would sit on a footstool at
his feet, look up fondly into his face and listen
with rapt attention, and only interrupt him to
whisper, that he was the handsomest and
cleverest man on earth." When men of such
opinions are the leaders of society, what can
be expected of the future mothers of the race?
	These women with missions, so dispicable in
the eyes of the masses, are not the ones who
squander money, or dissipate their powers in
the frivolities of fashionable life. It is not
their highest aim to please man, but to lift
manhood and womanhood to a higher and
purer atmosphere. They do not waste their
mornings in novels, and their afternoons in
calls upon the fashionable ladies of society.
They work industriously and energetically at
home and abroad, and though they may not
now be appreciated, like bread cast upon the
waters that will return after many days, so
will their labors be. The struggle for a wider,
higher and broader sphere is sure to result in
good, though the dark cloud is not yet lifted,
still it grows thinner and the faint dawn of the
morning which shall usher in the era of wo-
man's emancipation is becoming perceptible
to the quick eye of the observer.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

