IM MEMORIAM.

	We have to record the demise of another no-
ble daughter of Zion, Josephine de la Harpe
Ursenbach, who departed this life Feb. 23d, at
her residence 16th Ward, Salt Lake City. She
was a native of Switzerland, and of a very an-
cient family some of the male members of
which hear an honorable name in the history
of their country; General de la Harpe served
under Napoleon I; her father was the Seigneur
de la Harpe, a man of wealth and position.
She was reared in affluence, and received a
liberal education. Early in life she married a
Russian gentlemen, Monsieur Luedert, in the
Court of St. Petersburg, and she moved in the
highest ranks of that country. In a few years
she was left a widow, with three children—her
two daughters are now residing in high life at
St. Petersburg; her son, Joseph, is at this time
in New York. She embraced the Gospel in
her native land, and shortly after emigrated to 
Utah, bringing her young son with her. She
crossed the plains in "the Hand-cart company,"
and suffered much—drawing her hand-cart all
through that long and trying journey. She
has ever been a faithful Latter-day Saint, has
borne her testimony to many of the nobles of 
the earth, among them Victor Hugo, who an-
swered her letter under his own hand, giving
her credit for being a sincere and noble wo-
man. She has lived and died in obscurity, lit-
tle known or appreciated, but she has made
her calling and election sure; and her name
will yet be held in honorable remembrance in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day
Saints.
	"Res quiescat in Pace!"
		H. T. K.
	Died, in Salt Lake City, Jan. 9, 1878, Mrs.
Sarah Ann Burbage Long. Dceased was born
June 26, 1817, at Maidstone, County of Kent,
England. She was the daughter of Thomas
and Mary Ann Mason Burbage, and was a la[-]y
of superior education, cultivation and attain-
ments, and of pleasing and attractive manners.
She was well known in this city as an artist of
considerable merit. Her sufferings, during a
protracted illness, were very great, but she
bore all with saintly patience and fortitude.
She was a faithful Latter-day Saint. Mrs.﻿

[Column 2]

Burbage Long might well be considered a wo-
man of strong character; she had exalted ideas
of woman, and being a thorough scholar and
well versed in history, could converse intelli-
gently upon any subject, yet shrank from pub-
lic notoriety. During the earlier years after
the settlement of this city she did much
towards the cultivation of music and painting
among our young people. Her life has been a
very useful one, and her name is held in hon-
orable remembrance for good works. [Millen-
nial Star please copy.]
	In the City of Ogden, Feb. 7, 1878, at five
o'clock, of heart disease, Sarah Baker, beloved
wife of James Dudman. She was born May
27, 1812, in Devigis, Wiltshire, England; was
baptized July 11, 1844, by Elder Thomas Smith,
in the city of Bath, England. Emigrated 23
years ago to Utah; most of the time she resid-
ed in Salt Lake City. For many years she
practised as an accoucher, with very good suc-
cess. She was much respected by all who were
acquainted with her. It can be said of our
dear sister, She rests in peace, and her works
will follow her. She was a good wife, affec-
tionate mother, and a faithful Saint.
	M. W.


