R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday Feb. 2, 1878, was largely attended
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.  Mrs.M.I.Horne
spoke upon the coming election, the privi-
liges of the ballot, and the necessity of nat-
uralization. She spoke upon sericulture
and reminded the sisters that the Presi-
dents of Relief Societies and of Mutual Im-
provement Associations were sustained as
local presidents of the silk-culture in their
respective districts. She urged upon them
the necessity of setting out mulberry trees
in the season, and not postpone planting
them out in time. President Horne sug-
gested the sisters should speak upon the
subject which had been presented before
the meeting. Counselor E. R. Snow ex-
pressed herself as coinciding with the views
of Sister Horne, and exhorted the sisters
to the spirit of union, and repeated the
words of Jesus "If ye are not one ye are
not mine." Sister Snow remarked the two
subjects Mrs. Horne had spoken upon were
closely connected, one was for the establish-
ing of the kingdom of God and one for sus-
taining us in it. President Young gave to
the sisters the mission of raising silk, and
said if they would take hold of it they
would succeed. There are some settlements
in which mulberry trees will not grow—yet
those sisters in that vicinity are not excused
from this mission. Those who cannot labor
with their handscan exercise faith and pray.
Mrs. Mary A. Clark of Farmington, made
some remarks upon the Relief Society in that
settlement. Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith
alluded to the expense attending the peti-
tions and called upon the sisters to donate
towards defraying the same. The sisters
were extremely liberal in giving and suffi-
cient money was donated to pay for paper
and express charges. Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant spoke upon the coming election, and
the spirit of union, that it was just as neces-
sary in this as in other things, that unless
we were one, we were not the people of
God. Counselor Phebe Woodruff said she
would as soon think of neglecting her pray-
ers as neglecting to go to the polls. Joseph
Smith said keep in the channel of the
priesthood and you are sure to be right.
Mrs. E. A. M. Watmough spoke of her
thankfulness to have the privilege of the
ballot, said she never neglected her duty in
that matter. Mrs. E. S. Barney said she
could testify to living up to her privilege in
this respect, as she had in the straw manu-
facture; she had worn a home-made straw
hat ever since they had been manufactured
here.
	Pres. Joseph Young spoke of the great
field open for self-action from the remarks
of the sisters here. Said there was much
to be done but our Heavenly Father was
more reasonable than we were and would
not blame us for what we could not accom-
plish. If we could fully understand each
other and the motives which actuate us, we
should be more charitable than we are.
This congregation I believe are one in spirit
and feeling, but it is the practical points in
which we differ and these are harder to as-
similate; he gave his views upon retrench-
ment and made some remarks upon home-
industries and upon the preservation of
health. Miss Snow then informed the sis-
ters that they could obtain mulberry-trees
of all sizes from President Young's farm, by
applying to Mr. Rossiter at the President's
office, and that silk-worm eggs could be
bought of Mrs. Dora Robinson of Farming-
ton, or of Paul A. Schettler in this city.

[Column 2]

