EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the sisters are interested in
each other's welfare, I submit the following
report. Wednesday, Feb. 6, Sister E. R.
Snow and your humble servant left this
city to visit the sisters at Fort Herriman
and West Jordan.
	Bro. Robert Danzie met us at Draper and
conveyed us to Bishop Crane's at the Fort;
we enjoyed a pleasant visit with the Bishop
and his family; after dinner we were con-
ducted to the school-house by Sister Alice
Crane, President of the Relief Society,
where we met with the sisters, and were
also honored with the presence of the Bish-
op and all the brethren of the settlement
both old and young; we had an excellent
meeting and at the close another meeting
was called by the vote of the people for
half-past six. We visited sister Mumford
and were again invited to return to the
school-house, where we found tables bounti
fully spread with the good things of the
earth, and we sat down with two hundred
brethren and sisters; during supper we
were regaled by soul-stirring strains from
the Martial Band of Herriman, composed of
nineteen members ranging from twenty-
five years old down to little boys, one being
only nine; they have been organized only
a short time, but have made rapid progress
in their musical studies, as well as their
martial bearing. The settlement is beauti-
fully located and numbers two hundred
and fifteen persons, including all ages.
They all seemed happy enjoying the spirit
of their religion, and alive to its require-
ments; we had a good meeting in the even-
ing and all felt thankful for the good in-
struction received from Sister Snow.
	Thursday morning, 7th, Bro. Danzie took
us to West Jordan, we met with the sisters
and a few brethren at 2 o'clock p. m. when
Sister Snow addressed the sisters, and or-
ganized the Young Ladies M. I. A., with
the following named officers: Miss Adella
Gardner, President; Misses Mirinda Bate-
man; Rachel Hill; Mary A. Cooper, Polly
Egbert, Ellen Jensen, Adeline Williams,
Counselors; Miss Elizabeth Cutter, Secre-
tary; Miss Rebecca Gardner, Assistant Sec-
retary; Miss Elizabeth Cooper, Treasurer;
and forty members. I never remember
seeing so many fine, noble and good looking
young ladies in one settlement together be-
fore, if their works correspond with their
looks, we shall have some brilliant reports
from them, ere long. After meeting we
were entertained by Sister Agnes Cooper,
where we had a pleasant visit with many of
our sisters, and next morning we took
train for home and arrived in safety.
