DEATH OF AN ENGLISH CLERGY-
MAN.

	Died, in Salt Lake City, Nov. 16, 1877, Rev.
George R. Hewlings. Deceased was born in
London, England, in July, 1807. His father
was a member of the British Parliament, and
educated him for the law, but he preferring
the ministry, his father acceded to his wishes.
He graduated at Cambridge in 1832, and was
ordained to the Christian ministry in the In-
dependent Church. He subsequently had
charge of a church in Lincolnshire eight years,
after which he removed to Worcester, where
he had a very large church eight years. His
health became impaired, from constant labor
in his profession, and he concluded to resign
and come to America. He preached in Massa-
chusetts, Illinois and other States. He also
delivered many lectures on moral, historical
and religious themes. He was strictly con-
scientious and upright, honest in his convic
tions, and candid in expressing his seuti-
ments. His whole life had been remarkable
for piety and strict adherence to pastoral and
domestic duties.
	Rev. George R Hewlings came to this city
in the spring of 1872, on a visit to his wife's
relatives. He was a stranger to this people,
their views and condition, but was delight-
ed with the climate, and had remained tem-
porarily up to the time of his death, thinking
each year he would return again to his native
land, where he had a beloved daughter and
son and ther families, to all of whom he was
fondly attached. He has also a son settled in
New Zealand. He was a man of superior at-
tainments in education, and a firm friend to
those who were worthy, of whatever faith or
creed. He had a strong admiration for men
who acted from principle, and despised a trai-
tor, or a hypocrite. We speak from knowledge
of this good man (our brother by marriage),
knowing his many excellent qualities of head
and heart. He took great pleasure in reading
the Exponent, and often sent it to England
to ladies of his acquaintance, that they might
judge of Mormon women by their writings.
He believed in the higher education of women,
and was warmly interested in all literary pur-
suits. We can say of him truly, that although
not espousing the doctrines of the Church of
Latter day Saints, he was a strong advocate


for the social, political and religious rights of
this people; he believed in their sincerity, and
when ill unto death felt the efficacy of the
prayer of Mormon Elders.
	It is pleasant to know that there are some
noble, candid, honorable men of the world,
who can live and die among the Mormons and
not allow themselves to become prejudiced, or
biased, by partisanism. This is a praiseworthy
tribute in itself to the memory of any man—
proving his strong sense of justice, and abun-
dant charity; and no greater gift can any man
have than charity for his fellow-men.


