	WASHINGTON.

	To the Senate and House of Representatives
	of the United States in Congress assembled:
	WHEREAS, it is well known to your Hon.
orable Body that, except the workhouse
and the common jail, there is no provision
in the Capital of the United States for the
shelter of young, ruined, deserted girls,
who are driven to desperation to the fearful
crime of abortion and child-murder, nor for
helpless infants who are therefore subjected
to violent death, or to death by exposure
on our streets, nor for the training and re-
formation of girls who have become vicious
and abandoned, and are peopling the coun-
try with criminals; and,
	Whereas existing laws in this District are
so framed and executed as to protect men
in the highest crimes against the souls and
bodies of women and of poor, ignorant and
misguided girls, men of all ages and sta-
tions being permitted to seduce, or liberal-

[Column 2]
<l>y reward procuresses for securing for them,
new victims at every convenient opportu-
nity, and being allowed to abandon the
mothers and disown the children born out
of wedlock, while all the legal penalties fall
only upon the wretched mothers; and,
	Whereas, all criminal legislation to be
permanently effective, should tend toward
reform and remedy, toward the abolition of
arbitrary, cruel and barbarous distinctions
against the weak and in favor of the strong,
toward justice to women and kindness to
children, toward securing to the State a
multitude of trained, intelligent and useful
citizens instead of an ignorant and vicious
generation of outcasts and criminals, and
should provide as liberally for the direct
and immediate consequences of vice, as it
provides ways and means to fall into temp-
tation and sin; and,
	Whereas, the District Legislature in 1873,
in response to a petition from our best citi-
zens, granted a charter for the establish-
ment of a Girl's Reform School, and made
an appropriation for the purchase of land,
provided Congress would order the con[-]
struction of buildings, which appropriation
for land was lost through the failure of the
Forty-third Congress to pass the bill for the
construction of buildings reported favora-
bly by the Committe on Public Buildings
and Grounds; and,
	Whereas, the long delay in making pro-
vision for these classes of persons has led to
terrible suffering among young women, and
to fearful slaughter of infant life; and,
	Whereas, it has appeared in debate that
there is a general kindly feeling in the
House of Representatives toward the estab-
lishment of a suitable institution for these
classes, and that negligence in passing the
bill has not arisen from ignorance of the
need, nor from indifference, but from the
fact that the persons to be provided for are
women, and not your constituents, while
you believe it to be your first and constant
duty to pass such measures as your constit-
uents imperatively demand; and,
	Whereas, although we cannot declare
that your constituents imperatively demand
this measure, we do declare that your con-
stituents, the men of the United States, are
largely responsible for the moral and social
atmosphere and condition of the capital of
the nation, and may more appropriately be
taxed for the protection and care of these
wretched women, and for the education and
training of their unfortunate children than
fot their arrest and punishment as crimi-
nals; and,
	Whereas, the citizens of this District
support fifteen benevolent institutions
which do not depend upon Congress for aid,
although receiving inmates from every
part of the United States and from every
quarter of the globe, while Congress en-
tirely supports but three, and partially sup-
ports but four benevolent institutions, all of
which are national in their character; and,
	Whereas, the care of the persons de-
scribed in this Memorial, has fallen for
years mainly on a few women, who are
wholly unable to bear the expenses, or to
save the sufferers from exposure or subse-
quent degradation:
	Therefore, we pray your Honorable Body
to immediately take from the calendar H.
R. Bill No. 3765, add thereto the appropri-
ations named therein as limits to the cost
for land and for buildings for a Shelter for
the Sick, an Infant's Home, and a Reform
School for Girls, and enact the same in such
manner that it may be speedily effective;
and we further pray,
	That you will appropriate a sum to be im-
mediately available for the shelter and

[Column 3]
care of urgent cases of young women about
to become mothers in temporary quarters
until suitable buildings can be constructed.
		BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Sara J. Spencer, President; E. D. E. N.
Southworth, Vice President; Ellen H.
Sheldon, Corresponding Socretary; Susan
A. Edson, M. D., Recording Secretary;
Mrs. Le Droict Langdon, Treasurer; A. G.
Riddle, Solicitor. John F. Cook, Auditor.
