NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE black veil was taken, Tuesday, Jan.
9, by six young women at the convent of
the Sisters of Mercy in Hartford, Ct.
	MRS. CAROLINE A. Soule, in Nebraska,
on Sunday, Dec. 19, organized the First
Universalist parish at Tecumseh with
thirty-two members. "Surely the world
moves."—Ex.
	IT IS stated that the House-committee
on Territories have agreed to report un-
favorably on the admission of Utah as a
state. It is thought nothing will be done
to deprive women in this Territory of the 
the ballot.
	THE NEW Pope, Leo XIII, has been for-
mally installed in office. There are various
reports in circulation as to the future course
of action in reference to the Italian Govern-
ment. It is now believed he will for the 
present remain in seclusion in the Vatican.
	MRS. ISABELLA Beecher Hooker had a
hearing before the senate-committee on
privileges and elections, on the 22d ult.
She said the corner-stone of the American
Republic was God's own doctrine of per-
sonal liberty and personal responsibility.
She defined Liberty as the steam, Respon-
sibility as the brakes, election-day the safe-
ty-valve. She maintained among other
things the assertion that Lucretia Mott
could long ago have settled peacefully some
of the most unpopular and knotty problems
of the day without a standing army.

[Column 2]

	TELEGRAMS OF the 28th ult. state that
the treaty of peace between Russia and 
Turkey is on the point of being signed. It
is thought possible the Grand Duke Nicho-
las will visit the Sultan at Constantinople.
The 26, Vienna Special says: Austria will
not submit to some of the preliminary ar-
rangements for peace between the two
great hostile powers as it will infringe upon
her grounds.
	THE Princess Mercedes, King Alfonso's
future wife, though bred in France, is a 
Spaniard at heart, and insists on being call-
ed Spanish, yet there has hitherto been a 
strong prejudice against her marriage, her
father, the Duc de Montpensier, being wide-
ly unpopular because of the fatal duel with 
his cousin, Don Enrique de Bourdon, and
his pronunciamento of Cadiz, which began
the series of political convulsions that has
hardly ceased to agitate Spain.
	MISS RHODA Broughton, the authoress,
lives the greater part of the time in the
beautiful vale of Clwyd, Wales, and has
doubtless derived her love of scenery and
her power of describing it from constantly
having before her the mountains and vales
of that beautiful country. She is about
thirty years of age, and is described as
"spiritual in expression, with a light, quick,
impatient manner. Her face is an intel-
lectual one, with an appearance of active
imagination. She has a good figure, of 
about the average height.
	THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE HEARING.—On
Tuesday, Jan. 29, the Committee on Wo-
man Suffrage of the Massachusetts Legis-
lature, gave a public hearing to the peti-
tioners, in the Green Room of the State
House, in Boston. The attendance was
very large, and evidently in sympathy
with the petitioners. The first speaker was
Mr. Henry B. Blackwell, who said:—
	Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen:—In be-
half of the thousands of petitioners who 
are already before you, and of thousands
more, who, day by day, are sending in simi-
lar petitions, I desire to state, 1st, What we
ask: 2d, Why we ask: and 3d, By whom
the request is made.
	1. For a change in the law which regu-
lates elections for town, city and county
officers, removing the restriction of sex, so
that, hereafter, women may be enabled to
vote in such elections, on the same terms as
men.
	2. For a change in the law which regu-
lates Presidential elections, removing the
restriction of sex, so that hereafter women
may be enabled to vote for electors of Pres-
ident and Vice-President of the United
States.
	3. For a Joint Resolve for a Constitution-
al Amendment abolishing all political dis-
tinctions on account of sex.
	To make the first and second steps, no
change in the Constitution is needed, but
only a majority of the Senate and House of
Representatives with the assent of the Gov-
ernor.
	To change the Constitution requires the 
action of two successive Legislatures, rati-
fied afterwards by a majority of the quali-
fied voters.
	So much for what we ask; now why do
we ask it?

[Column 3]

	1st. Because the fundamental principle
of American Government affirms, that all
mankind are endowed by nature with cer-
tain inalienable rights of life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness, and to secure
these rights governments are instituted,
deriving their just powers from the consent
of the governed. Every one will admit
that a woman has the same right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness as a 
man; that to secure these rights govern-
ment exists; that she is governed; why
then should she be forbidden to consent or
dissent like other citizens? What is Suf-
frage? The authoritative expression of an
opinion. What is its essence? Rational
choice. Are rational choice and its ex-
pression a masculine function? Are they
a feminine function? No; they are a human
function. We ask that women may vote,
for the same reason that they vote already
as stockholders in a railroad company or in
a manufacturing corporation. They are
equal stockholders, as citizens, in the great
political corporation called Government,
and it is unjust to deprive them of their
equal expression, since they are equally in-
terested in its safety and prosperity.
	But the principles of our State Constitu-
tion affirm Woman's right to Suffrage.
	All power resides in the people and is de-
rived from them." Women are people.
	"The people...have a right to institute
government and to reform, alter or change
the same." They can do so only by voting.
	Again, we ask Suffrage for women, be-
cause they are different from men. There
are no two classes of human beings in so-
ciety so different from each other as the 
larger classes known as men and women.
Each class has special qualities more highly
developed than the other. I need hardly
stop to enumerate them. The qualities
which specially characterize women are the
very ones in which our government is de-
ficient. Women excel men in gentleness,
temperance, chastity, economy, and respect
for law. They are and always will be the 
wives and mothers of men. Woman Suf-
frage therefore means the representation of 
the Home; the domestic interests directly
expressed by women, just as the business
interests are directly expressed by men.
Instead of an aristocracy of sex, which is 
class legislation, we want human nature
manifested in a truly representative gov-
ernment of men and women.—"Woman's
Journal."
	Most substantial and positive reasous
were brought to bear in this meeting by
both men and women. Mrs. Lucy Stone's
speech was pathetic in parts, and rich with
the pathos of womanly feeling. Miss Ann
C. Garlin's speech was short but contained
some forcible arguments strongly present-
ed. Mr. Garrison dwelt very much upon
reform and what urgent measures it requir-
ed, etc. Mrs. E. H. Webster, George T.
Stevens and Miss Lorenza Haynes were the
other speakers and received great applause
from the audience. They presented such
claims and backed them with such conclu-
sive evidences, illustrations and facts, that
in reading them over one feels that they
ought to convince the most bitter opponents
of Woman's Suffrage.


