		DUTY OF PARENTS.

	This is a subject I have reflected much
upon, and I feel that I would like to give
some of my views in regard to it. Not that
my ideas will be anything new, but we
sometimes need reminding and awakening
to our duties and obligations. Realizing as
I do the importance of the day in which we
live, and knowing that Satan is at work
among the saints and trying to sew the
seeds of infidelity in the hearts of our
children, is what prompts me to write and
see if we cannot by our united efforts ward
off the impending evil. I have noticed for
years back the rising generation, and asked
myself the question; are they coming up
to the standard of what the children of the
Latter-day Saints should be? Some of them
are all that we could wish, while others are
reckless and regardless of the good advice
of parents and are evidently on their way
to ruin unless they repent. O, that I had
the language and the voice of an angel to
reach the hearts of all such, and cause them
to stop and reflect ere it is too late. The
Sunday Schools and Improvement Associa-
tions for young people of both sexes are do-
ing much I think to bring this about; but
let us Latter-day Saints go back a little and
see if we have done our duty as parents.
And if we who have raised large families
can see wherein we have failed to take the
right course, those who are just starting out
in life may profit by our experience and do
better. God's first commandment to Adam
and Eve was to "multiply and replenish
the earth;" the same words are repeated to
our young people when they kneel at the
holy altar and are united in the order of
Celestial Marriage. They are not told to
gather to themselves riches, but to multiply,
and keep the commandments of God and
they shall be blessed with eternal lives.
How little attention is paid to the true
meaning of the words; should not their aim
be to try and bring forth good spirits into
the world, for what will add more to their
glory than good and noble children provid-
ing they grow up in the truth. The saints
are anxious for posterity but do they realize
when children are born unto them that it

[Column 2]
depends much upon their lives and exam-
ple whether they become the children of
our God, or children of the Evil One. The
question might arise, why is it that some
of the children born in plural marriage are
opposed to the principles of that sacred mar-
riage covenant? We know that Polygamy
as it is called, is the bugbear of the so call-
ed enlightened world. Many persons say
if it was not for that principle we might
join your Church. Satan knows his power,
for he not only stirs up the hearts of the
children of the world, but is also cunningly
at work with those born in that covenant,
for he knows if he can poison their minds
against Celestial Marriage, he has gained
one grand point.
	Then let us awake to the danger. Some
may ask how can it be prevented? I can-
not say, but think something might be
done by commencing at the root of the evil.
The evil may commence even before we
are aware, perhaps impressions are made
upon the mother while bearing her child-
ren; a woman's nature when undergoing
the pain and suffering incident to becoming
a mother in many cases is almost entirely
changed. She is more susceptible of joy
or sorrow, the least unkind word will bring
tears when at other times it would not be
noticed. Often sick in body, and wearied
with household duties, is more dependant
upon her husband, needs his help with the
children, if she already has little ones, needs
sympathy and kind words to help her bear
her burden. It is said that woman has the
power to mold the mind of her child, and
that children born of good mothers will
prove to be good sons and daughters. Now
if this is the case would they not be still
better if they have good fathers for they
are often like him in disposition. Few per-
sons realize that what is mostly before the
mother during the period of maternity,
will make the strongest impression upon
her offspring. Then should not the father
be very careful, and let his actions be such
that he might be proud for his child to pat-
tern after him. Most fathers throw too
much respsonsibility upon the mothers in
regard to training their children, not but
that many a woman is capable of doing so
alone, but it is not the surest way; to have
a well ordered family in my humble opin-
ion takes both parents unitedly.
	I remember it was my father who used
to sit with us in the evenings (when my
mother was busy perhaps mending or mak-
ing little clothes) and try to get us interest-
ed in our studies, and help us with our hard
lessons; and at times would tell us of God,
and draw our young minds towards Him.
Happy childhood memories. I would that
every child could say of their parents as I
can say of mine, that I could see no fault
in them, nor ever heard a cross word pass
between them. But I am digressing from
my subject. Another course of evil is I
think, a neglect of prayers in families, or if
it is attended to it is done in such a man-
ner as not to interest or benefit the child-
ren.
	In the first place we should get the spirit
of prayer, for without the spirit of prayer
we can never enter into the Celestial King-
dom. Then if this is so necessary why not
pray so that our children can understand.
Perhaps have the prayer shorter and more
to the point, so they need not get weary;
call on them to take a part while young,
and they will grow up with this spirit, and
when the husband is absent, the wife
should take that place and never let prayer
be neglected, or in any way leave any gaps
for the evil one to creep in.
	Sometimes husbands cannot attend to all


the little duties which would otherwise be-
long to them, as their time is taken up
with public business. Then let us as moth-
ers do our part nobly and well, and not let
our children get too old before we teach
them the principles of the Gospel; for if we
do we cannot by redoubled diligence make
up for lost time. Another thing, mothers
should be very careful how they talk be-
fore their children, especially in bringing
up the faults of the father; it is too often
the case that he is spoken of with disre-
spect, (especially does this transpire in very
large families, where there are many in-
fluences and dispositions,) and by a few
words from the mother, the child may be-
gin to distrust the father and think he is
not the man he should be; this feeling
strengthens until he is ready to disbelieve
in the principles the father has espoused.
Much might be said upon this subject, but
this may be sufficient. My experience has
taught me that it is easier for us to think
what we can do than it is to do it.
	Over twenty years ago when Brother Jed-
ediah M. Grant was so zealous in trying to
bring about a reformation with the people,
I was quite young, (my second child was
then a babe,) I seemed to enter into the
spirit of what he said, and felt thankful
that I lived in this day, and that I was in
my youth, and resolved in my own mind
that I would try to bring up my children
right. Since then I have been the mother
of a large family, and although I have no
great cause to complain, yet have found
that I could not come up to my standard of
excellence, controlled as I was, more or less
by circumstances, having poverty and sick-
ness to contend with, and all their train of
consequences. But we can be found trying
to do our duty, and then leave the rest to
Him Who sees and knows all things.
	When we go to school we know that in
order to have a finished education we must
learn every letter well, and every small
word must be committed to memory; so in
entering the school of the Gospel, we must
learn the little lessons as they come, so we
may be ready for greater ones. Obey coun-
sel, keep the commandments, so that in
time we may become graduates in heaven,
and take seats in the Celestial Kingdom
with our Father, which is the prayer of
your sister.
