WHERE.

	"Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of
thistles?"
	"Can an evil tree bring forth good fruit, or a
corrupt fountain send forth pure waters?"
	The continual increase in the number of
criminals, lunatics, and helpless, wretched human
beings, from all classes of society; the increas-
ing tendency to sensuality as evinced by the
dress and literature of the times, and the fre-
quent cases of seduction, suicide, abortion, in-
fanticide, jealousy and murder; the debilitated,
diseased, wrecked condition of married women,
and the increasing mortality of infants—all of
these accumulated horrors unite to demand of
us, as American women, a thorough investiga-
tion of the causes of these fearful disorders,
and a fearless application of whatever reme-
dies lie within our reach.
	We therefore submit the following proposi-
tions, held to be true by many noble, philan-
thropic minds, and ask for them the candid
dispassionate consideration of all lovers of hu-
manity:
	1. That according to Divine order, every hu-
man person should experience a conscious de-
light in living, and in performing the uses of
life; but that the race, by a long course of self-
ish, sensual, devitalizing indulgence, has lost
zest in, and relish for, the daily blessings and
uses of a pure life.
	2. That the act by which a human soul is
called into existence is a creative act, designed
by the Infinite Creator to people earth and
heaven with pure, happy human beings, each
soul to be the sublimated essence of the best
qualities and happiest conditions of its parents;
and that the earthly agents of our Heavenly
Father have no right to degrade this high and
holy use to low and selfish purposes.
	3. That through ignorance and selfishness
the human family have perverted this exalted
office to merely sensual indulgence, resulting
in a diseased, abnormal condition, which phy-
sicians and the world in general call "normal
appetite," "natural propensity," physical nec-
cessity," and, more deplorably still, resulting
in a constant and frightful I increase of vicious
depraved, and diseased human beings, doomed
to infamy and suffering by the sins of their
parents before they were born, according to
the inexorable law, "the fathers have eaten
sour grapes, and the children's teeth shall
grind."
	4. That thus, through the degradation of a
holy sacrament, the earth is filled with vio-
lence and crime, and the regions of despair
with lost human souls.
	5. That men themselves need all the vital
force which is not demanded for parentage to
enable them to perform the mighty material,
intellectual and moral labors to which, as sons
of the Most High, they are called; and that by
wasting their powers in enervating indulgence
they sacrifice vigor, health, happiness, and the


most glorious possibilities of manhood, here
and hereafter.
	6. That the present condition of the human
race imperatively demands the active exercise
of the refining, elevating, spiritualizing power
of pure womanhood, to eradicate moral poison,
restore spiritual and physical health, and thus
to lead humanity to a higher plane of thought
and feeling, and to richer fountains of peren-
nial joy.
	11. That while the mother's body is the tem-
ple of a possible angel, sacred duty to her un-
born child should take precedence of all other
duties.
	12. That suffering herself to be degraded,
while in that holy state, for merely sensual
purposes, is a crime against the human race, a
sin against her own soul and against the Holy
Spirit.
	We appeal to all lovers of Purity, Peace, and
Order to aid us by counsel, suggestion, or co-
operation, in our work of social purification
and reform.
	Published by Sara Andrews Spencer in 1871.


