HANDS.

	After we are baptized, through the ad-
ministration of the laying on of hands we
receive our confirmation into the Church,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost also, which
is given to cheer, comfort and enlighten
the mind, strengthen the memory, and lead
unto all truth, that men and women may
become perfect. Among the many mani-
festations of the Holy Ghost are faith, heal-
ing, and miraculous powers. After we
have received this blessing, in order to re-
tain it we should be very humble and
prayerful, and strive to keep all the com-
mandments of the Lord, observe all His
precepts, and live by every word that pro-
ceeds from His mouth, and by so doing we
will have faith in our Creator. If any are
sick among us we send for the Elders, and
they anoint the sick with oil, and adminis-
ter to them in the name of the Lord, and
by faith in God the hand of the destroyer
is stayed, and they are healed, if not ap-
pointed unto death; for this blessing and
privilege we should feel very grateful.


The Apostle James says, "The prayer of
faith shall heal the sick, and the Lord our
God shall raise them up, and if they have
committed any sins they shall be forgiven
them." And through this miraculous
power of God displayed in the healing of
the sick, evil spirits have been cast out,
the blind made to see and the lame to walk;
through the goodness and power of God,
many other manifestations have been real-
ized. The knowledge of this power comes
from our Heavenly Father, and is not kept
under a bushel, but is gratuitously extend-
ed to every nation, kindred tongue and
people; it is the power of God unto salva-
tion, whereby we may gain an inheritance
hereafter: even an exaltation in the king-
dom of Heaven.
	Also, through the laying on of hands we
receive our Patriarchal blessings. By this
ordinance children are blessed, thus having
a name in the Church; also by this ordi-
nance the priesthood was conferred upon
every officer in the Church, from the Pro-
phet Josoph Smith to the deacon. The
Holy Priesthood was given direct from
heaven, and no man can hold it except he
be ordained by one who holds it.
		AGATHA A. PERRY.
	[For the Theological Class, B. Y. Acade-
my, Provo City, Utah, Sept. 8, 1877.


[Column 1]
			For the EXPONENT.
