CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR
Autobiography of Caroline Josephine Ballantyne Farr
First, something of my parents and ancestors. Those on my father's side were of Scotland; on my mother's side, they were all of Norway.
SKETCH OF RICHARD BALLANTYNE'S LIFE
My father, Richard Ballantyne, was born in Whitridge bog, Roxburgshire, Scotland, August 26, 1817. When an infant, he was baptized into the Relief Presbyterian Church by sprinkling; later he was taught its doctrines. At the age of twenty-one he became an elder and later a ruling elder, whose duties consisted of visiting among the members with the priest, and looking after the finances of the church, in which labor he was greatly blessed. While still a young man he began his labors as a Sunday
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 371
School teacher, which work he continued the remainder of his life. He obtained his schooling between the ages of nine and fourteen, when he occasionally attended school, mostly in the winter months. At fourteen, he was apprenticed as a baker to a Mr. Gray, serving three years. At sixteen he was made foreman of the business, also serving one year as baker's foreman in Kelso under a Mr. Riddle. His former master dying, he purchased the business continuing it for five years in Earlston, but giving it up when he came to Nauvoo.
In his native land when twenty-five years of age, he joined the Church. On a beautiful moonlight night of December, 1842, he was baptized in the waters of the Leith. With his mother, two sisters and a brother, he left his native country in 1843, coming by way of New Orleans to Nauvoo. Here he became the manager of the Coach and Carriage Association, where many of the wagons and vehicles were built which aided the first immigrants across the plains to Utah. In 1846 he settled the affairs of John Taylor's printing establishment, operated a flour mill thirty-six miles east of Nauvoo, and also engaged in farming.
Other Events in Nauvoo
During the troublous times in Nauvoo he had many thrilling experiences. At one time for over two weeks, he was in the hands of the mob, suffering greatly from exposure and hardship, while his captors led him and his companions from one place to another in the secluded woods. The mob decided to shoot them. The ground was measured off and prepared for the bloody deed when the timely arrival of a warning messenger stopped the execution, the prisoners finally escaping.
At Winter Quarters, on February 18, 1847, he married Hulda Meriah Clark, daughter of Gardener Clark and Delecta Farrer. Their children are Richard, Alando, Delecta Ann Jane, David Henry, Meriah Cedenia, John Taylor, Annie, Roseltha, Isabel, and Joseph.
On November 27, 1855, he married Mary Pierce, daughter of Edward Pierce and Elizabeth Bennett. Children: Zechariah, Mary Elizabeth, Jane Susannah, James Edward, Eliza Ann and Heber Charles.
November 7, 1856, he married my mother, Caroline Albertine Sanderson. She had seven children: Thomas Henry, Caroline Josephine, Bertha Matilda, Catherine Mena, Jedediah, Brigham, Laura Elizabeth.
Early Work in Utah
On May 18, 1848, he started for the Valley, crossing the plains in President Brigham Young's company, which arrived in Salt Lake City the following September. In the first Pioneer Day celebration, held in the Tabernacle
 
Square, July 24, 1849, he took a prominent part, presenting to President Young the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the United States. He also acted as standard bearer to the twenty-four young men who constituted part of the President's escort.
As early as 1846 he was ordained a Seventy by President Joseph Young, and later a High Priest by Apostle John Taylor, which latter office in the Church he held to the day of his death, laboring with constancy and considering his duties a pleasure.
The Father of Sunday Schools
Sabbath School work was his chief delight. On arriving in the Valley, having secured a little home in the Fourteenth Ward, he obtained from his bishop permission to establish a Sunday School. There being no house to meet in for months to come, he built an addition to his home, doing almost all the work with his own hands, and there began the school. The first session was held on the second Sunday in December, 1849. Later the school was held in the Fourteenth Ward meeting house. Thus, under him, began the Sunday Schools of the Church. He writes: "I was early called to this work by the voice of the Spirit, and I have felt many times that I was ordained to it before I was born; for even before I joined the Church I was moved upon to work for the young people.
"There is growth in teaching the young; the seed sown in their hearts is more likely to bring forth fruits than when sown in the hearts of those more advanced in years.
"Furthermore, I have passed through much trouble, sorely tried by friends and foes; but through it all the Gospel has brought such a solace that I was very desirous that all the children of the Saints should learn to prize it as I did. From the very nature of our circumstances, I could see that the children were being neglected. I wanted to gather them into the school where they could learn, not only to read and to write, but of the goodness of God and the truth of the Gospel."
I heard my father relate a very impressive dream. He saw a large building in course of construction, and a number of little boys playing in and around it. Finally he saw an officer trying to catch them. One of them ran to my father, and with pitiful pleading looked up into the face of my father, saying, "Oh, teach me! Teach me! Teach me!" This dream made a strong impression as if pointing out his special work.
Missions and Travels
In 1852 he was called on a mission to Hindustan, India. After a long and perilous voyage he arrived at Calcutta with twelve other elders, on July 24, 1853. While on this mission he had remarkable faith-promoting experiences.
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 373
On the 25th of July, 1854, he sailed for England by way of the Cape of Good Hope, arriving in London on the 6th of December, 1854, thence making his way in charge of a company of Saints across the ocean to St. Louis. In the spring of 1855 he led across the plains a company of emigrants numbering about five hundred. With fifty wagons, all of them arrived in Salt Lake City in first class condition, on the 25th of September, 1855.
Upon his arrival in Salt Lake City, President George A. Smith said to him: "You have accomplished a journey around the world without purse or scrip and brought in your company with a band of music and flags flying." President Young immediately appointed him to a home mission in the well remembered "Reformation." To this work he devoted his time until May, 1857. Jedediah M. Grant, father of our beloved President Heber J. Grant, was his companion. At the time of Johnston's army, he was in the "move" south, remaining in Nephi two years. He was one of the first business men of Ogden, where, after a very active life, he died October 8, 1898.
THE MOTHER'S ANCESTRY
On my mother's side, my ancestors were all of Norway and belonged to the Lutheran church. Though they were in comfortable circumstances, they were very industrious and my mother was early taught to work. My grandmother would paint the house and the barn. The weaving was done at home, my mother assisting in the spooling and quilling. They also did all kinds of fancy work. After preparing the yarn, they made their own shawls, tastefully embroidering them in the natural colors of flowers.
Receiving the Gospel
Caroline Erickson Williams, who made her home with my grandparents about the years of 1851-53, tells how they came to receive the Gospel: "I was sick a few days and went home; while there I had a dream. I thought someone came to the Sanderson home (my mother's) and gave Mrs. Bertha Jacobson Larson (my great-grandmother) something that made her happy.
"After I returned to their home, a man who lived at the toll bridge asked us one night to come to his house and hear some ministers. We all went. As we approached the house we heard the elders singing. I thought it the most heavenly music I had ever heard, and such preaching!
"They were local elders, Jappa Folkman, Olson, and Hanson. The place was Ryvelsrod Onson, about seven miles from Fredrickstall, Norway. In about one month we were all baptized
 
excepting Mrs. Sanderson, who waited till spring. The elders were kept in prison all winter, where they converted the night watchman who carried food to them from the Sanderson home at night."
Her Mother's Narrative
"My grandmother, Bertha Larson, and I were baptized on the 27th of September, 1852, and my mother not till spring. On the 30th, three days later, I was to have been confirmed in the Lutheran Church, but instead I went to the priest and told him I had joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This angered him. It was he who had the elders arrested and put in prison, where they remained all winter.
"My father was a sea captain and was away a great deal. When he heard what we had done, he set a guard to watch our house. One night a mob of about 200 men gathered outside and demanded entrance, to see if the 'Mormon' Elders were secreted there. I had been to a meeting and I was compelled to stay outside until four o'clock in the morning, when they grew tired and left the place.
"Once when my mother was very ill, Brother Olson, one of the missionaries, laid his hands on her head and said: "In the name of the Lord thou shalt be healed." She was restored instantly, after which she enjoyed good health for a number of years.
From Norway to Utah
"On November 21, 1854, we left our native land. To leave our dear father, was one of the greatest trials we ever had to bear. During our voyage on the North Sea there came up a terrible storm, so severe that it was impossible to go on; we had to turn back to land three times, making no progress past a certain place in mid-ocean. Finally the sea captain of our company, numbering 400 souls, called us together and said to us, 'We are all fasting, and let us unite in prayer.' He offered a very humble prayer and immediately the wind turned. We were out of coal and had to depend on the sails, but the Lord answered our prayers and we steered straight to Hull, England. We went by rail to Liverpool, whence we set sail for America. After a safe voyage we landed at New Orleans, February 18, 1855. At Fort Leavenworth the cholera raged in our camp, four or five dying every day. Apostle Erastus Snow rebuked the Destroyer; after that time all were healed.
Life in Utah in 1855
"On the 14th of June, 1855, we started to cross the plains. I had to walk almost all the way. We arrived in Salt Lake City
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 375
September 7, 1855, almost a year after we left our home in Norway.
"Utah was then a place of destitution and poverty, the crickets having destroyed all the crops. Mother, grandmother, and I were alone, and I worked for our support, weaving, sewing, for one dollar a week. Flour was fourteen dollars a hundred and we had to ration ourselves to one biscuit a meal.
"When it looked as if we would starve, President Brigham Young told us to cook roots, weeds, thistles, etc., promising that they would be blessed until the grain came, after which they would be cursed or poison. Some that had learned to like the weeds, continued to use them and became very ill. During the Fall of 1855, mother and I gleaned, earning 25 bushels of wheat, which made us very comfortable for a year.
"On the 7th of November, 1856, I was married to Richard Ballantyne. About a year afterward, Johnston's army invaded our peaceful quarters and we had to move south. We lived at Nephi two years. On returning we found our homes just as we had left them. In 1865 we moved to Eden, Utah, where my husband became president of that branch. For seven successive years the grasshoppers destroyed our crops; then there came caterpillars that killed the crops. We were reduced to poverty, and for two years were again rationed."
My mother's public work was mostly among the sick. In the Primary Association of the 4th Ward of Ogden, she was first counselor for many years, acting as president most of the time on account of the illness of that officer. Later, my mother was made president and held that position a number of years.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF CAROLINE B. FARR
I, Caroline Josephine Ballantyne Farr, was born the 30th of January, 1861, in Salt Lake City. Our home, on First West, was next door to one of the homes of Apostle John Taylor. When I was a babe, father moved his family to Ogden. In 1865 he moved part of his family to Eden, Ogden Valley, my mother and her children being among those who went there. My father gave the name of Eden to that little town.
Results of Early Training
I used to enjoy the walk from our humble little home on the farm over to the meeting house. Under Henry Talbot as conductor, choir practices were often held at my mother's home. At one of these practices, a leading singer, Miss McBride, lifted me up on the seat beside her to help sing alto; since then, with an occasional intermission, I sung in the choirs of the Church until I was over fifty. Sister McBride, one of my first teachers in Sunday School
 
and day school, used to give us passages or chapters from the New Testament to memorize. I enjoyed these lessons. They developed in my soul, at a very early age, a love for the Savior. The first strong desire I remember having was that I might be like Him.
In Eden and Ogden
In the little town of Eden, the Indians, almost daily visitors, came with their berries, choke-cherries, and service berries which they gathered on the hills, also beads, and "swapped" for biscuit (bread), butter, meat and sugar. If our parents were home, we children used to be glad to see them come. It was here that my sweet little blue-eyed sister, Catherine Mena, died at about eleven months of age. Once when my father was irrigating a field, mother sent me to him with a lunch; he asked me to sit down in the shade of the willows and talk with him while he ate; before eating he returned thanks for the food. I never forgot the incident.
The fall before I was fifteen years of age I started to school to Prof. L. F. Moench; the next summer the trustees wanted me to teach school at Eden. How embarrassed and nervous I felt. And how incapable! I took the school and did my best. In the fall of 1876, my father moved his family back to Ogden, which has been my home up to the present time.
Married to Marcus Farr
February 2, 1882, in the Endowment House at Salt Lake, I was married to Marcus Farr, son of Lorin Farr and Sarah Giles. My uncle, President John Taylor, sent word to President Joseph F. Smith, who was counselor to President Taylor, to marry us first so that we might eat dinner with him at the "Guardo" house, his residence. We thought it a great honor to eat our wedding dinner with the President of the Church and his family. I had always esteemed him as one of the grandest and greatest men who ever lived. It was he who first called me by my new name. When it was time to catch the train he sent his coachman and carriage to take us to the depot.
At my husband's father's East farm our first child, Josephine, was born, February 17, 1883. In April, 1884, we moved to his West farm (Marriott) and lived there two and one half years. Here our son Marcus B. was born, April 11, 1885. In the fall of 1886 we moved back to Ogden and since then we have had three children: Lionel Ballantyne, born November 28, 1888; Beatrice Albertine, born April 24, 1892; Lorin Ballantyne, born July 1, 1896.
Experience with the Word of Wisdom
When about eighteen, I read an article in the Millennial Star
CAROLINE JOSEPHINE BALLANTYNE FARR 377
on the Word of Wisdom, the effect of it changing my whole life. I resolved there and then to keep it, feeling thankful and happy to find something I could do that was not commanded. About two years after this resolution I was taken ill with typhoid fever. After about three weeks, to all appearances, I died; my eyes and teeth were set and I was cold and stiff, but through the faith of my mother and the elders I was healed.
In the winter of 1882, I had the misfortune to fall on the ice and hurt myself internally. For several years I was not very strong; and would sometimes yield to the persuasion of friends to drink a cup of coffee or tea as an inducement to eat more. About this time President John Taylor attended our quarterly conference and spoke on the Word of Wisdom. I was greatly thrilled. On our way home we talked of the things we had heard. I told my mother and one of my sisters that I would recover my health by keeping the Word of Wisdom or die in the attempt. My sister could not have been so strongly impressed, for she said she would eat or drink anything that would make her feel better; but for the sake of my children and my own good I determined to obey this law.
When I was about to become a mother again, I dreamed I died. I saw my body lying on a stretcher and my husband and children standing around my body weeping, heart-broken, while my spirit, or I, stood in one corner of the room looking on. Seeing their great grief, I felt that I could not stand it, and awoke. When the time arrived for the birth of my child, I felt sure I would never arise from my bed again in this life unless the Father saw fit to spare me. My babe came and only through the power of the Priesthood was I restored. The battle for life was now on in earnest, and it seemed that all hell was let loose on me. Only by giving heed to the "hidden treasures of knowledge" as promised in the Word of Wisdom did I or my children escape. In this experience I had been mobbed and driven as literally as were the Saints by men in the flesh; my foes were from the unseen world, and where could I flee or where hide from such an enemy? I fled to the house of prayer as literally as the Saints were forced to flee to these valleys. From criticism by my own people I suffered keenly. All this time, or nine years out of the ten, I was asking people to pray for me, being ward president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. How could I hold such a position if I were not just right, or insane? But I have had also seasons of the most exquisite joy. My Father in heaven has been my friend, my joy, and my song. When I felt that I could not ask people to pray for me any more and that death would be preferable, I was told that the thing I was doing would bring the Millennium and so I was willing to carry on.
 
Thankful for my parents, that they embraced the truth and have always been faithful; grateful to my Eternal Father for the desire He has given me to serve Him, I praise Him for the light of truth that He has given to me, and bless His holy name that He has delivered me in times of peril and danger. Glory, honor, praise, and majesty be His forever and ever. Amen.