MARINDA ALLEN BATEMAN
Impressions of My Mother, Marinda Allen Bateman A Pioneer of 1853
By Julia B. Jensen
"Her voice was ever soft, Gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman." —Shakespeare.
King Lear's impression of Cordelia is my strongest impression of my mother. My memory is filled with beautiful thoughts of her; but in any picture there must always be her gentleness of manner and her quiet, unobtrusive way with others. Her voice, soft and low, was yet firm and commanding. I do not recall ever hearing her laugh aloud, though she would laugh heartily. Song
IMPRESSIONS OF MY MOTHER 349
often surged through her soul, though it seldom broke out on her lips. When it did, it seemed more like the crooning of a lullaby than an outburst of feeling. Like Cordelia, she could be indignant at wrong and injustice, and contend for that which she felt to be right. She was tolerant, however, of weaknesses in others, and very humble in her estimate of herself. To my knowledge she never indulged in gossip, nor in unbecoming stories. We were taught to be kind to strangers, loyal to friends, and, as nearly as possible, to be just to those who were not our friends. If ill-report of a friend or an acquaintance came into our home, mother and father alike asked us to withhold judgment until we knew more.
A Home that Sheltered
Essentially a home woman, the first of her duties was to her children. I was the thirteenth and last child, and I marvel now at the quiet way in which she secured cooperation and kept the home machinery working. There were numberless things to be done on the farm—meals to be prepared not only for the family but for visitors; our home always open to acquaintance and stranger alike, no one ever turned from the door hungry or shelterless—and we were seldom alone. I can recall being wakened in the night, taken out of my bed along with one of my sisters, crowded into another bed already seemingly full, that ours might be replenished with fresh linen and given to some late caller who had been delayed on the journey. Some friends lived with us for weeks and months. I recall, also, the long dining table in the log cabin kitchen at which we sat. It was here during the conversations at mealtime that we learned some of our most valuable lessons in life.
Had the Gift to Believe and to Heal
Another strong impression concerning my mother was of her unbounded faith. This she imparted to us in many ways, but more often by example than precept. Often when we were ill and she bent over us caring for our needs, her lips moved in silent prayer. With the soothing touch of her healing hands, and faith in silent words, we dropped into a restful sleep to awake much better. A natural-born nurse, her services were often called for in cases of desperate illness. In homes where there were contagious diseases—and in those days there was no quarantine—she did all she could, taking the simple precautions she knew and returning to her family without fear. I think in no case did we suffer greatly because of the risk she encountered. Many people testified
 
of the healing touch of her kind hands—hands that were required to do so many kinds of hard work in the daily routine of pioneer life, but never seemed tired of doing and giving. Because of her ability in caring for the sick, she was urged by friends to take a course in nursing and midwifery under Doctors Margaret and Ellis R. Shipp. This she did when I was a child. The service she rendered in that little community, and in the neighboring town where professional medical service was difficult to secure, cannot be estimated. Hundreds of babies came safely into the world under her direction; hundreds of women loved her for the aid she gave. It often meant long journeys of from ten to fifteen miles in all kinds of old-fashioned vehicles; it meant loss of sleep, days away from her family for a financial remuneration so pitifully small that I cannot bring myself to write it down. This fact affects me deeply; because through this labor, and only through it, she was able to educate me to be a teacher. I trust that in some small measure I fulfilled her expectations and returned a little of the much she gave to me. The debt can never be paid.
Drove Oxen Across the Plains
Marinda Allen Bateman, my mother, was the eldest daughter of Daniel R. and Eliza Martin Allen. She was born June 21, 1838, at Jamaica, Long Island, New York. Nine years before her death she wrote, "On June 5, 1853, I started with my parents from Council Bluffs to cross the dreary plains, a thousand miles to Great Salt Lake Valley. I helped father drive three yoke of cattle. On June 21, while crossing the plains, I was fifteen years old, and on September 9, of the same year we arrived in Great Salt Lake City. Father settled at West Jordan and ran the flour mill for Archibald Gardner. On November 27, 1854, I married Samuel Bateman."
Her Public Work
When the first Relief Society was organized at West Jordan by Bishop Gardner, my mother became the president; she did her work with humble sincerity until she was released. At later dates she served as counselor and again as president. When the Jordan Stake was organized, January 21, 1900, she became the first president of the Stake Relief Society, with Hilda H. Larson and Agnes Cutler as counselors. She held this office six years. She did not crave public work; a certain reticence of manner made her timid. But the people who worked with her knew her worth, and her friends were many.
Generous and of Good Courage
In her life she had few material comforts. But she never
IMPRESSIONS OF MY MOTHER 351
felt so poor that she could not give the greater half if not the whole of her small possessions to one in greater need. Giving was a joy; her only regret was that she did not have more to give. Quiet as she seemed, and timid in meeting people of the world, she had tremendous courage. She did not know physical fear. In the early years of her married life, she had many opportunities to develop this courage. They lived in a lonely place and had troubles with the Indians. For weeks at a time, father was often away from home, but mother had no fear. In the presence of illness or accident she had a steady nerve, and in a crisis she was calm. She never failed us at any moment of our lives. How secure we felt in her presence; how her absence could depopulate the village!
Her Last Great Battle
The last struggle was a courageous one. Long months of illness she met with cheerfulness, but with great solicitude for those who cared for her. It was not the way she had wished to go; but since she could not choose, she met death with the same heroic spirit she had exhibited in life. The final scene came on the evening of March 18, 1919, at the home of my sister, Mrs. Armanta Egbert, at West Jordan. Mother had been sitting in her chair all day. Shortly after she retired, she knew the summons had come. She called my sister who frantically tried to give aid. Mother calmly refused any stimulant, saying that it was time and that she was ready. She left her blessing for all of us, and in a few minutes, tasting death courageously with her eyes open and conscious to the last second, she passed on to rejoin our father, who had preceded her.
The old home is gone, but home will ever be where mother is. The words of Ruskin, in "Sesame and Lilies" beautifully fit my mother and her ability to make a home: "And wherever a true wife comes this home is always around her. The stars only may be over her head; the glow-worm in the night-cold grass may be the only fire at her foot: but home is yet wherever she is; and for a noble woman it stretches far around her, better than ceiled with vermilion, shedding its quiet light far, for those who else were homeless."
God's rarest blessing is, after all, a good woman.—George Meredith.