VOL. XVI JULY, 1929 NO. 7
EDITORIAL
Ruth May Fox
Ruth May Fox is General President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. Her selection as head of the organization is eminently fitting, for she is an unusual woman. Not alone sympathy for but almost the fire of youth has been burning within her soul through the many years of her association with the presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A. Enthusiasm is a necessary part of all work that contacts the human family; in her life, President Fox has carried forward an amount of enthusiasm that is almost amazing.
The new president exhibits a striking combination of the practical and the ideal. Blessed with a large family of children, she has been a good, practical mother and an efficient homemaker. To this work she has added that transforming touch of the ideal which is apparent in the poems she writes and in the quality of her spirituality. Full of faith, full of belief in the triumph of right, she has a mental attitude which finds its growth in a perfect trust in our Father and in his plans for the righteousness and salvation of his children.
Associated with President Fox as counselors are Lutie Grant
 
Cannon and Clarissa A. Beesley. Mrs. Cannon is a woman of much sweetness, of outstanding intellectual gifts, of broad sympathy and very noticeable refinement. She is deservedly beloved by the young people of the Church. Miss Beesley, in her duties as secretary, has had the opportunity to learn much concerning the workings of the organization. Every day of her life has been a day of experience in Mutual work, a day of collecting data in relation to it. She is known throughout the Church for her efficiency and ability to put over work successfully and in good season.
We can think of no wiser choice for the onward advancement of the work than that made by President Fox in the selection of her counselors. The Relief Society rejoices in their appointment; it wishes them every success, asking in all earnestness that the richest blessings of heaven may attend them in their labor of progress and of love.