CONTENTS

Monument to Handcart Pioneers Frontispiece
Handcart Trail Vesta Pierce Crawford 347
Impressions of My Mother, Marinda Allen Bateman Pioneer of 1853 Julia B. Jensen 348
He Discovered South Pass Dr. William J. Snow 352
Editorial—Ruth May Fox 359
President Louise Y. Robison's Birthday 360
Honor Paid to Barbara Howell Richards 361
A Spiritual Life 362
The Pioneers 363
Willard Greene Richards 364
Autobiography of Caroline Josephine Ballantyne Farr 368
Grandma's Quilts 376
Autobiography of Margaret Miller Watson De Witt 378
Pioneer Days of Payson Emma C. Curtis Simons 384
Mary Hood Johnstone Ruff 391
A Needle in a Haystack Josephine G. Moench 394
The Pioneers 395
Pioneers Lois V. Hales 396
Notes From the Field 399

VOL. XVI JULY, 1929 NO. 7
MONUMENT TO HANDCART PIONEERS
By Torleif S. Knaphus.
This piece of art is in the Bureau of Information, Salt Lake City.
THE Relief Society Magazine VOL. XVI JULY, 1929 No. 7
Handcart Trail
By Vesta Pierce Crawford
My boy, I walked across the plains, Where now the cars rush by; I walked across the barrier plains, Where now the airships fly!
You cannot know how far it is, With hills and deserts whirling past; My steps have measured every rod, My body bedded on the sod!
You cannot know how far it is; You hear the throbbing motor's sound; I've listened to the cart wheels creak— The tramp and tramp of bandaged feet!
I know how far it is.
MARINDA ALLEN BATEMAN
Impressions of My Mother, Marinda Allen Bateman A Pioneer of 1853
By Julia B. Jensen
"Her voice was ever soft, Gentle and low, an excellent thing in woman." —Shakespeare.
King Lear's impression of Cordelia is my strongest impression of my mother. My memory is filled with beautiful thoughts of her; but in any picture there must always be her gentleness of manner and her quiet, unobtrusive way with others. Her voice, soft and low, was yet firm and commanding. I do not recall ever hearing her laugh aloud, though she would laugh heartily. Song
IMPRESSIONS OF MY MOTHER 349
often surged through her soul, though it seldom broke out on her lips. When it did, it seemed more like the crooning of a lullaby than an outburst of feeling. Like Cordelia, she could be indignant at wrong and injustice, and contend for that which she felt to be right. She was tolerant, however, of weaknesses in others, and very humble in her estimate of herself. To my knowledge she never indulged in gossip, nor in unbecoming stories. We were taught to be kind to strangers, loyal to friends, and, as nearly as possible, to be just to those who were not our friends. If ill-report of a friend or an acquaintance came into our home, mother and father alike asked us to withhold judgment until we knew more.
A Home that Sheltered
Essentially a home woman, the first of her duties was to her children. I was the thirteenth and last child, and I marvel now at the quiet way in which she secured cooperation and kept the home machinery working. There were numberless things to be done on the farm—meals to be prepared not only for the family but for visitors; our home always open to acquaintance and stranger alike, no one ever turned from the door hungry or shelterless—and we were seldom alone. I can recall being wakened in the night, taken out of my bed along with one of my sisters, crowded into another bed already seemingly full, that ours might be replenished with fresh linen and given to some late caller who had been delayed on the journey. Some friends lived with us for weeks and months. I recall, also, the long dining table in the log cabin kitchen at which we sat. It was here during the conversations at mealtime that we learned some of our most valuable lessons in life.
Had the Gift to Believe and to Heal
Another strong impression concerning my mother was of her unbounded faith. This she imparted to us in many ways, but more often by example than precept. Often when we were ill and she bent over us caring for our needs, her lips moved in silent prayer. With the soothing touch of her healing hands, and faith in silent words, we dropped into a restful sleep to awake much better. A natural-born nurse, her services were often called for in cases of desperate illness. In homes where there were contagious diseases—and in those days there was no quarantine—she did all she could, taking the simple precautions she knew and returning to her family without fear. I think in no case did we suffer greatly because of the risk she encountered. Many people testified
350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of the healing touch of her kind hands—hands that were required to do so many kinds of hard work in the daily routine of pioneer life, but never seemed tired of doing and giving. Because of her ability in caring for the sick, she was urged by friends to take a course in nursing and midwifery under Doctors Margaret and Ellis R. Shipp. This she did when I was a child. The service she rendered in that little community, and in the neighboring town where professional medical service was difficult