Mary Hoop JOHNSTONE RUFF Mary Hood Johnstone Ruff There are always places in the world where pioneering must be done. In any form of pioneering, women who can fit into the many situations, and particularly those who appear to have intuitive ability to care for the sick, are invaluable. Such a woman was Mary Hood Johnstone Ruff. Her path in life led her into one of Utah's mining camps, where many foreigners live, and where pioneer work must always be done. In addition to the usual difficulties of life in a mining town, she chanced to be living in Scofield at the time of the appalling disaster. She was one of the heroines who fought through that terrible period of misery, bringing relief to the suffering and comfort to the stricken ones of that unexampled calamity. Born in the quaint little town of Bathgate, Scotland, April -  27, 1854, Mary was the daughter of Nicol and Angelina O'Neil Hood, who were among the early converts to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in that land. When we think of a family of eleven children to be taken care of, and the crippled father of the home under the necessity of providing for them all with the use of only the thumb and two fingers of the left hand, the struggles and privations of this family can be visualized. A portion of Father Hood's left and the entire right hand had been lost in a mine accident. At the birth of Sister Ruff's youngest sister, the mother died; and the responsibility of a mother was taken over by Margaret, who acted in this capacity for a little over a year, or until the father also had passed on, From this time on it was Sister Ruff's lot to rear this family, with the exception of an older sister, who had married. Through Mary's teaching and example all the brothers and sisters became active Church workers; and through her labors and savings she was able to send this entire family to Utah, in accordance with her mother's dying request. On June 26, 1879, she married Samuel Johnstone, by whom she had three children?two daughters and a son, two of whom survive her?Mrs. Alfred Newren of Salt Lake City and Mrs. W. D. Stillman of Denver. Together they worked in the cause of truth and continued to assist the Hood family in their endeavors to settle in Zion. In June of 1891 her husband passed away, and once again the entire responsibility of rearing a family was upon her shoulders. With her youngest sister, Angeline, whom she had reared from babyhood, she opened a restaurant in Glasgow, and was able to save sufficient means so that in May of 1892 she left Scotland with her three children and sister, arriving in Salt Lake City during the following month?the triumph of many years of faith and work. In the following November they moved to the town of Scofield, and for the past thirty-seven years this has been her home. Leaving the old world did not cool the ardor she had shown in the work of the gospel. It was not long after her arrival in Scofield that she was chosen as counselor in the Primary Association; in this work she labored for over five years. Her chosen field, however, was that of a relief worker. She had been called upon to rear her father's family, her own family; and after a few years in Scofield, her brother John losing his wife, Sister Johnstone for a long time mothered his two children. Her life's work after arriving in Utah was destined to be that of nurse and comforter, both to members of the Church and to non-members. Her children grew up in Scofield with her, MARY HOOD JOHNSTONE RUFF 393 following their mother in the paths of righteousness. Her sister Angeline married and had a family. Then, in May, 1900, occurred the great Scofield Mine Disaster, in which 203 men and boys lost their lives. During these terrible times she was one of the most active among relief workers, assisting in preparing the bodies for burial, and in ministering to the injured. Her sister, Angeline, lost her husband at this time, making it necessary for her sister to find employment; and once more 'Mrs. Johnstone mothered another's family. Shortly after this great mine disaster, in November of 1900, she was called upon to pass through one of her severest trials, when through an injury, her sixteen year old son, Andrew, was called to the other side. In 1909, Mary Hood Johnstone was married to Bishop George Ruff of Scofield, and together they have faithfully served the people of their ward. Mrs. Ruff was active in Relief Society work for nearly forty years, serving as president of the ward organization at Scofield for more than twenty-five years. On May 10, 1929, she died at Scofield. Because of her untiring efforts and her unselfish devotion to God's work and to the relief of suffering among her fellow citizens, Mrs. Ruff lives in the memory of those whose good fortune it was to come in contact with her. High ideals, noble aims, and genuine character?these qualities have become an inspiration to those who lived near enough to know her well. Regardless of color or creed, she cheerfully administered to the needs of all, and was never too busy. Nor was any hour too early or too late for her unhesitatingly to answer the call to service. ' e Wherever we may be born, in stately mansion, or in flat, or tenement, or under the humblest conditions, we are pretty much alike, and it would be a rash man who would try to measure brains by the cost of the nursery. Go anywhere you will, there is a humble soul demanding a fair chance, having the right to know what has happened in the world, having the right to be enriched with the stories and poetry of life, having the right to be inspired by tha deeds of men of force who have lived amid struggles in the past, having the right to be shown the way upward to that wholesome life which is absolutely independent of circumstances and which is strong and successful because it is the life of a man or a woman doing a man's part or a woman's part in the world which is fairly understood ??Charles Evans Hughes.