He Discovered South Pass
THE ADVENTURES OF JEDEDIAH STRONG SMITH THROW NEW LIGHT ON THE OPENING OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN WEST
By Dr. William J. Snow
The story of the movement from the ribbon of American colonies on the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Ocean is the great American epic. The transformation of this primitive wilderness in the course of a century is one of the amazing facts in the world's history. Indeed, it almost seems that great cities, towns, hamlets, and villages sprang forth, Athena-like, from the "forehead of Jove." Among the pathfinders and trail breakers who paved the way for this marvelous development in the trans-Rocky Mountain West, none stands higher than Jedediah Strong Smith.
When the Western Empire Became Our Own
Who would have dreamed in 1776, when San Francisco (Mission Delores) was founded by Spanish priests and the whole trans-Mississippi West belonged to Spain, that within three quarters of a century the embryonic republic then commencing its struggle for independence, would own and control this whole region? Even the settlement and political incorporation of the trans-Allegheny West seemed then a remote possibility. A half century later, and a quarter of a century after the purchase of Louisiana, the Rocky Mountains were considered by many in the United States and outside, as an effective barrier to expansion beyond. At least it was considered impracticable if not impossible to attach this far western region to the United States.
What Wise Man Deemed Impossible
It was hoped by some of our statesmen that an independent republic bound to us by the ties of blood and a common political heritage would some day be established beyond the mountains, but farther than this they did not dare to dream. Thomas Jefferson in a letter to John Jacob Astor in 1811, said, "Your beginning of a city on the western coast (Astoria) is a great acquisition, and I look forward to the time when our own population will spread up and down along the whole Pacific frontage, unconnected with us except by ties of blood and common interest, and enjoying like us the rights of self government." Even less sanguine were some of our congressmen ten years later. Representative Tracy of New York in 1822, declared: "Nature has fixed limits for our nation; she has kindly introduced as our western barrier,
HE DISCOVERED SOUTH PASS 353
mountains almost inaccessible, whose base she has skirted with irreclaimable deserts of sand." Such statements might be multiplied. Even after this barrier had been measurably overcome and many Americans had ventured beyond, Daniel Webster declared, November 7, 1845, at the Whig caucus in Faneuil Hall, Boston, that he expected to see in Oregon an independent republic in the most "healthful, fertile, and desirable portion of the globe."
The Impenetrable Western Area
The English, too, felt that nature had barred the door to effective American settlement in the Oregon country. The reverend J. D. Driver, in an address delivered before the Pioneer Association of Oregon, 1887, related the following incident connected with the Hudson Bay factor at Fort Vancouver, the honorable Dr. John McLoughlin: "He (McLoughlin) used to say to Reverend J. L. Parrish, for all coming time we and our children will have uninterrupted possession of this country, as it can never be reached by families, but by water around Cape Horn. Mr. Parrish went on to say, being an Eastern man, 'Before we die we will see the Yankees coming across the mountains with their teams and families.' The doctor said: 'As well might they undertake to go to the moon!' * * * When a wagon train finally camped on this side of the Cascades, he went and conversed with emigrants, saw the dilapidated wagons, torn covers, jaded animals, and sunburned women and children, and when meeting Parrish on his return said: 'God forgive me, Parrish! But the Yankees are here, and the first thing you know they will yoke up their oxen and drive to the mouth of the Columbia and come out at Japan.' "
Discovery of the South Pass Was the Key
What wrought the great change? What made the impossible possible? Of course there are many contributing factors, among them the perseverance, persistency, and courage of the Western pioneer. But a most vital explanation, and one to which attention is now called, is the discovery of the South Pass—a discovery that changed the whole outlook for American settlement beyond the towering Rocky Mountains. Before this easy passage was opened, it was thought impossible, as suggested by Dr. John McLoughlin, for wagons to cross this formidable barrier. There are many claimants for the honor of this great exploring exploit. In 1856 the promoters of the candidacy of John C. Fremont for president, representing the new-born Republican party, claimed for him the distinction. Of course, in the light of well known history at that time, the claim was preposterous. Wagons had actually been taken over this easy pathway a decade before Fremont's expedition of 1842. It is much more difficult to
 
decide, however, between various other claimants. But in the light of recent evidence, it appears that Jedediah S. Smith should be given the credit.
With Ashley in 1823
In the early spring of 1823, Wm. Henry Ashley, who the previous year had led a company of trappers up the Missouri to the mouth of the Yellowstone river, where a post was established for the winter, advertised anew for one hundred young men to join his forces for fur-trading operations in the Rocky Mountain fastnesses. Among those who responded was Jedediah S. Smith, who during the next eight years (he was killed by the Indians in the Cimarron Desert in 1831) proved himself one of the most remarkable mountain men of this whole romantic period. The company left St. Louis March 10, 1823. They reached the Aricara villages May 30; and on June 2, occurred a tragic Indian massacre in which young Smith played a most prominent part. After the Leavenworth campaign against the Aricaras, which followed this regrettable episode, Andrew Henry with the major group of the Ashley men, went back to the new post at the mouth of the Big Horn River; and, contrary to all previous accounts Jedediah Smith, it appears, did not accompany him, but led a small brigade over the Black Hills and struck the headwaters of the South Fork of the Cheyenne, thence westward near the headwaters of Powder, Big Horn, and Wind Rivers to the region near Fremont Peak (so named after) where the party remained for the winter.
Adventures of the Trail Breaker
It was during this trip and while still in the Black Hills that Smith had his famous tussle with a grizzly bear, being almost torn to pieces by the ferocious animal. With the nursing and care of his companions, and with almost superhuman courage and energy on his own part, he was up and leading his company in the course of two weeks. But some lonely and dangerous hours were passed at the camp fire in this Indian wilderness. Fears of toil and danger, of sleepless vigils, of weary marches without shelter or assurance of food, were before them, but they would not surrender. They had cut themselves off from civilization to try their fortunes in the twilight zones of the magic west lands, and with resolute purpose they carried on. Little did they know, perhaps, that soon their camp fires would light the way to settlement and that civilization they had left behind. They were to build better than they knew; for within another quarter of a century their pioneering efforts would lead to the creation of prosperous American states beyond the barrier over which they were soon to cross, and over which, following their new pathway, a continuous string of covered
HE DISCOVERED SOUTH PASS 355
wagons, carrying immigrants to Oregon, California, Utah, would be seen.
Opened the Way to Westward Traffic
Early in the spring of 1824 this little band, who had remained near Fremont Pass, east of the mountains, all winter, commenced their westward trek, still led by the intrepid Smith; and in the latter part of February crossed over the divide, at the point since known as South Pass. This simple statement of fact constitutes the crux of this whole narrative; for over the pass, admitting, as it did, an easy wagon route, the Oregon and California trails led a continuous stream of immigrants into the Great Basin and on to the Pacific slope until occupancy and possession of this whole region were vouchsafed to the United States. From the standpoint of historical research, this version, assuming it to be true, sets aside the various other claimants, such as Andrew Henry, John Hunter Rose, and Charbonneau, as well as Provot, Bridger, and Thomas Fitzpatrick. The last named, however, it should be noted, was with the Smith party, but not the leader. Recently some writers, notably the late Isaac Russell, have given the honor to the returning Astorians in 1812. The present writer, after a careful review of the evidence, is convinced that they, the Astorians, missed this pass by some ten miles or more. At any event, no practical results followed until after the 1824 discovery. Then this low depression became the gateway to the whole trans-Rocky Mountain West. The advantage, once so patently British, turned to the United States; and from this period on there was but little question as to who would eventually secure this region.
A Leader in the Western Wilderness
From this time on until his cruel death at the hand of savages in 1831, Smith was the leader and inspiration of every group with which he was connected in the exploitation of the Western wilderness. In the winter of 1825, some few months after Bridger, he, too, according to his own words, "fell on the waters of the Great Salt Lake." The next year, 1826, he led a small brigade from the Salt Lake rendezvous near the present city of Ogden, south and west through Utah and Southern Nevada to California and up the coast to San Francisco, returning in the summer of 1827 across the Nevada desert to Salt Lake and thence to the Snake. After but a short stay here, he again turned southward, leading another party, and traveled the same route to California and up the coast to Vancouver, where, after terrific experiences with the Indians on the Umpqua, where sixteen of his nineteen
GREEN RIVER
HE DISCOVERED SOUTH PASS 357
men were massacred, he received a generous and helpful welcome from the veteran Hudson Bay factor, Dr. John McLoughlin. Two years later, having left the mountains for good as he thought, we find him leading a caravan train (prairie schooners) from St. Louis to Santa Fe. The last seen of him he was riding a mule down to the dry land of the Cimarron River in search of water for the choking animals and thirsty men. According to the version given at Santa Fe some months later by the Indians, he reached the bed of the then dry Cimarron and began clawing out a hole with his hands. Water soon trickled through to slake his thirst. He drank and continued to dig, evidently to secure sufficient water for the animals, when the lurking Indians who had been watching all the while, fell on him from behind and soon riddled him with bullets and arrows, but not until he had whirled about and shot two of his assailants.
Able, Courageous, Religious
Thus passed one of the most courageous and God-fearing of mountain men. He was devoutly religious, and in addition to his fire arms always carried the New Testament next to his heart. Frederick Jackson Turner compares him in this respect to his great namesake, the Prophet Joseph Smith. In his short eight years of adventure in the mountains he accomplished more than any other of the noted group of mountaineers. On his two trips to California he approximated in his route the present Arrowhead Trail and Lincoln Highway, as well as the Western and Central Pacific Railway. He furnished information upon which were based the first relatively accurate maps of the trans-Rocky Mountain West; viz., those of Gallatin in his "Synopsis of Indian Tribes," and of Irving in his "Captain Bonneville." Add to his general exploits that of the discovery of the South Pass, the crowning achievement of his career, and certainly his name should stand high on the roster of Western explorers.
Historical Proof of the Claim
In the preparation of this narrative I have purposely omitted footnotes. However, substantial evidence can be furnished for every important statement. But here it is incumbent upon me to credit my source for the claim that Smith led a party of eight to the base of the Rocky Mountains in the fall of 1823, and in the spring of 1824 discovered the South Pass. This is contrary to all previous accounts. The basis for this part of the narrative is a work edited by Charles L. Camp and copyrighted by the California Historical Society, 1928, and published by A. H. Clark Company, Cleveland, 1928. The title of the book suggests its character and importance. "James Clyman, American frontiersman, 1792-1881. The Adventures of a Trapper and Covered Wagon Emigrant as
 
told in His own Reminiscences and Diaries." To this work the reader is referred for many interesting incidents and details. James Clyman was with Smith and his party when it crossed the divide and gives intimate details of the crossing. Moreover, he was one of the four men who circumnavigated Great Salt Lake in a boat in the early spring of 1826—a fact never before disclosed. Clyman, however, gives the date as the fall of 1825. Robert Campbell said 1826.*
*Pacific Railroad Reports, Vol. XI, page 35.
In the Shadow of the Temple
By Minnie J. Hardy
I sat alone in the shadow, For the flowers were very fair; I felt as though an angel's wing Was sheltering me there. I came to pass a pleasant hour— But stayed a while in prayer.