MARTHA JANE Coray Lewis A Spiritual Life Comprising Certain Experiences of Martha Jane Coray Lewis 8 By Lamont Poulter, Eastern States Missionary The following paper given at a surprise party in commemoration of her 84th birthday, tells briefly the story of the life of Martha Jane Coray Lewis.; With happiness in our hearts, we meet tonight to show our love and respect to our dear Sister Lewis. This is her &4th birthday. We are proud to have her in our midst and we appreciate our association with her. Very few wards, we fancy, in the stakes of Zion or in the missions in the world can say that they have with them one who has known all the presidents of the Church.  This we can say of her, for as a tiny babe, Sister Lewis was held in the arms of our beloved Prophet Joseph Smith. This glorious privilege no one would appreciate more than she; for her faith in that man and his divine mission has never wavered.
Her Father Aided the Prophet
Sister Lewis was born in Nauvoo, February 19, 1844, the daughter of Howard Coray and Martha Jane Knowlton Coray, who were worthy people and exhibited great faith during the early persecution of the Saints. Her father, who was born in New York, being intensely religious and well educated, became dissatisfied with the various existing religions; and after hearing a sermon on "Mormonism" by Elder Joseph Wood, who was versed in the scriptures, he became convinced that his own church was not true. Desiring to know the truth, he sought the Prophet, talked with him, observed his actions. He soon realized that Joseph was not an ordinary man. He accepted the gospel, and, becoming well acquainted with the Prophet, took charge of his correspondence and helped him in the writing of church history.
Origin of the Revelation on Priesthood
Sister Lewis has related the following incident pertaining to the Prophet and witnessed by her father, Mr. Coray. At one time the Prophet was preparing an article for conference. As the writing progressed, he was impressed that mistakes had been made. He stopped work and told his secretary that he would correct it by the spirit. Pausing for a few minutes, he then stepped out into the center of the room and under the influence of the holy spirit, which seemed to radiate from his face, making his fathomless eyes appear as deep as eternity and filling the room with an atmosphere of authoritative power and spiritual serenity, he dictated a portion of the revelation on Priesthood, a truly heavenly communication. (Doctrine and Covenants, Section 84.) This incident, related by her father, did much to strengthen the faith of Sister Lewis.
Results of a Wrestling Match
Another time, her father and the Prophet engaged in a wrestling match. The Prophet accidentally slipped, broke Brother Coray's leg, but set it himself, later calling in a doctor, who stated that everything was satisfactory. At the end of ten days, Brother Coray was able to walk. He said to the Prophet, "Brother Joseph, I am very glad you broke my leg, because you have never broken anybody else's leg and you know when Jacob wrestled with the angel, he asked for a blessing; so I should like to receive a blessing from you." The Prophet blessed him, telling him that he would marry, would have a large family and that his
A SPIRITUAL LIFE 365
wife would cleave to him more strongly than the cords of death; also that he would go to the Rocky Mountains and live to be an old man?all of which came true.
Conversion of Her Mother
Sister Lewis's mother belonged to the Campbellite church; she was not satisfied however, until she too met the Prophet, and was converted to the truth. Some time afterward she married Howard Coray. They lived in Des Moines, Iowa, later moving to Nauvoo, where their second child, Martha Jane, was born. It was here that her mother visited with Sister Lucy Mack Smith, and listened to many stories of the Prophet's youth. After his death, she wrote them and took them to the Prophet's mother for her approval. In listening to these experiences, we can realize just why Sister Lewis has been so faithful and firm in her testimony to the truth of the gospel. Her early home life saturated her soul with a living knowledge of the work of the Lord and the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith.
Made Blind by a Fall
When just a baby, Sister Lewis fell down the stairs and was seriously injured. She lost her sight. This misfortune greatly grieved the hearts of her parents. We see that pioneer mother standing in the doorway of her humble cottage, watching the play of her little girl, who, she realized, was handicapped for life. When the child played under the trees, with the birds fluttering near her, her older brother, Howard, filling her lap with rose petals, would tell her what the roses looked like. Dark her world must have been; but even in her blindness, she found happiness in her wonderful imagination. The mossy banks of silver streams, "where fairy castles stood and tiny elfin folk tripped lightly o'er the green" were all created by her from no better material than "the gossamer threads of a maiden's fancy." During her blindness she learned lessons in order?to keep everything in her room in its proper place; but in her mental house every thought and idea was stored away systematically. The family lived in Nauvoo until 1846. At that time severe persecution drove them from their home. They found a temporary place in Pottawatomie County, Iowa. Driven from here, they went to Kanesville and on to Grand Island, Nebraska; but there they were again in the midst of hatred and persecution.
The Miracle of Sight Restored
One morning, Sister Lewis's father came in and said, "I have an impression that if I baptize Martha Jane in a running stream once each morning for seven mornings she will regain her sight."
 
This impression he followed, and miraculously the child's sight was restored, to her own extreme delight and happiness and the untold joy and thanksgiving of her parents. At the time of this apparently impossible experience, she was five years old. At once she was ushered into a strangely beautiful world. She tells us that the clouds seemed like large, white, fluffy, moving pillows, and that she thought it would be great fun to take a ride on them. The flowers, the trees, the birds, and all nature, enchanted her life, holding her fascinated. Praising and adoring Him who had given her the desired blessing of light, her first testimony of God's great goodness unto her became a living reality.
The Great Adventure Westward
While in Nebraska, Presidents Taylor and Woodruff visited them, imparting new courage and strength to commence that great, that almost endless journey across the sands of a desert waste. They now prepared to undertake that journey. In the spring of 1850, with a six month's old baby they left their home and turned their heads toward the West, which, with all its perils, yet held for them the promise of a haven of peace and freedom. Buffaloes and Indians they encountered; privations and hardships they accepted; but, with eyes toward heaven and feet on the trail, they braved the unknown perils of the hazardous plains. In the fall of 1850 they reached their destination, regarding it as the reward of their tribulation, the pay for their hard labor and steadfast faith.
Thrills on the Lonely Prairies
Many thrills Sister Lewis experienced out on the wild and lonely plains. She says, "Having my sight restored, everything was glorious to me. We sat in the encircled wagons at night, with our cattle in the center to prevent the Indians from getting them. We had plenty of milk, bread, beans, and sometimes either fish or buffalo meat. We danced and sang, having many good times. The gold rush to California was on and many curious people came by, asking dozens of annoying questions. One time a man came up to mother with curiosity written on his face, but before he could say anything, she started out rapidly with 'I'm David Crockett's aunt. I came from the East and I'm going to the West. I think that man over there died with the small pox.' This seemed to suffice his curiosity, for he walked away and without a word. I suppose he wondered what was the matter with mother."
After arriving in Salt Lake City and securing a place of shelter, they began to help in the great task of making the "desert blossom as a rose"?the great undertaking in which many became discouraged. For several years Mr. Coray worked in the tithing
A SPIRITUAL LIFE 367
office; later he helped in the work on the temple. Sister Lewis stood on the ground where the sod was first turned for the foundations of that great edifice. Her life enfolds experiences which trace the growth of the small pioneer village to the second most beautiful city in the United States.
A Life Big with Experience
Her early life was devoted largely to Church work and, of course, to many other useful activities. As a little girl she organized a child's Relief Society; when asked what they could do, she answered sincerely, "We can sing, we can pray, and we can sew." In 1870, she was married to Theodore Lewis, a man of great ability as an educator and spiritual leader, devoted alike to his faith and to his loved ones. In perfect happiness and wonderful companionship they lived for twenty-nine years. They had ten children, five of whom are living. Sister Lewis is now with her eldest son, Theodore, who resides in Brooklyn, New York.
During her life, she has received many remarkable blessings. At one time, when critically ill, she was carried to the water, after a very wonderful blessing given by President Woodruff, to be baptized for her health. When she arose, she walked alone, unaided by human hand; for God had heard the blessing, had recognized her faith, and she was made whole. In a literary way, she has enjoyed success, having written a great deal; she also worked in cooperation with her husband in this field. In all the auxiliary organizations, she has taken active part, and many of her later years have been devoted to temple work for thousands of her kindred dead. Before coming East, she had charge of the theological work of the Relief Society in the University Ward of Salt Lake City. One day, when a call came for volunteer, short-term missionaries, she surprised every one by arising and offering to come out into the mission field to devote her time and strength to the work here.
She Carries the Torch of Truth
We are glad she is with us. She has made many friends here, serving in the Sunday School, the Relief Society, and in other activities in this field. We pray that our Heavenly Father will bless her remaining years with happiness and peace, crowning a life of righteousness. One friend said to her, "Surely your lighted candle is set so firmly upon the hill of your life that it cannot be hid; and all who meet you see it shining through your soul." We feel to voice the same sentiment, and we hope to catch the rays which come from that torch lighted by God and kept burning by its keeper.
The Pioneers