Honor Paid to Barbara Howell Richards
At her own request, and because of her removal to the state of California, Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards has received an honorable release from the General Board of the Relief Society. In recognition of her efficient work on the Board, she stood with President Williams and President Robison on the evening of the reception tendered President Williams during the Relief So-
EDITORIAL 361
ciety conference last April. In further recognition, a luncheon was given in Mrs. Richards' honor in the President's suite of the Hotel Utah, April 10. The luncheon was presided over by President Louise Y. Robison, who expressed her own appreciation for the quality of Mrs. Richards' work, and for her womanly worth. Each member of the Board accepted the opportunity to pay tribute to Mrs. Richards. It was a genuine pleasure for Board members to tell of the love and confidence that she had inspired in their hearts.
The committee having the luncheon in charge had contemplated some features of surprise for Mrs. Richards, but, meeting them at their own game, she had a corsage bouquet placed near the cover of each Board member, so that the whole affair was a real surprise party.
Mrs. Richards is possessed of so much personal charm and real genuineness of character that she naturally wins an abiding place in the hearts of those with whom she mingles.
The Dead
In olden times the main interest of life seemed to center in the dead. Kings sought immortality through their tombs; consequently, much of what we know in relation to the pharaohs of Egypt has come from the silence of the tombs. The great pyramids of Egypt, counted for centuries by historians as one of the world's wonders, are tombs in the desert. In the days of Imperial Rome, many elaborate tombs were built. Paris, which boasts many public buildings of beauty, has hardly anything else within its limits so beautiful as the Tomb of Napoleon on the banks of the Seine. Recently, because the remains of Field Marshal Foch have been placed there, this Tomb has been brought once more into great prominence.
Too much emphasis, no doubt, has been placed in the past on the building of tombs; yet it is part of the culture of every civilized nation to take care of the dead in a manner that indicates devotion and reverence for those who have been part of the great life stream of humanity, and who have made their contribution to the world's achievements. It is a reproach to any community to neglect its cemetery. Self-respecting, high-minded communities will see to it that the cemetery reflects credit and not discredit upon the people who are part of it. This does not mean that people shall be unduly extravagant.. We sense the truth of the statement that change is at all times a part of our life, that nothing is surer than that changes will come. It is not logical to suppose that changes are to come  in every other mode of our life, and not affect the manner of our care for and burial of the dead. Consequently we are having a movement all over the United States for mausoleums that represent a better method of taking care of the dead at a price that is not inconsistent with our general progress towards higher ideals. In thus making of this earth a more beautiful place both to live in and to die in, we are in perfect accord with the idea of the poet Wordsworth, who wrote: "There is one great society alone on earth: The noble living and the noble dead." This being true, nobility should mark the manner of our death and burial as well as of our life and living. Sunflower By Elsie C. Carroll In desert places Lone and somber, dry and sere, Among the barren rocks And dull gray shrubs Where Nature's loveliness has been forgotten, You, God's after-thought, appear. You rise from out the dreary dunness, A star of hope?your petals all of gold; You do not droop your head Or hide your brightness In doubt or hesitance or fear; But gravely face the sun, Whose light you image, And, seeing you, We mortals are assured; Forget the drab and dullness of our deserts, And turn our faces to the sun. E'en though it may be hid, Your steadfast gaze Assures us it is there.