[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, Genera]

General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman, 
General Secretary. The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society, held October 4 and 5, was unusually well attended, and the interest was keen throughout. There was the usual spirit of love and good fellowship, which was auspicious and inspiring. The weather was ideal, which added greatly to the comfort of a fall conference. The conference opened with the business session, held in the Bishop's Building, the morning session for general and stake officers, and the afternoon session for general and stake officers and ward presidents. At the general session held for Relief Society workers generally, and the public, the Salt Lake Assembly Hall was taxed to the limit to accomodate the large numbers of interested listeners, and many stood in the aisles and at the back of the hall throughout the afternoon meeting. At the general officers' meeting, seventy-two stakes out of eighty-five were represented, thirteen only being not represented. The representation and attendance was as follows: General Board members, 18; mission presidents, 5, representing the Mexican and California missions and the Central, Northern, and Westetn states missions; stake presidents, 53; stake counselors, 73; secretaries and secretary-treasurers, 33; treasurers, 10; choristers, 5; organists, 4; class supervisors, 15; additional stake board members, 156; visitors, 86; total 458. In addition to this number of general and stake officers, there were in attendance at the afternoon general officers' meeting, 90 ward presidents. Between the two sessions for officers, on Tuesday, a cafeteria luncheon was served by the General Board, and on Tuesday night a musicale and reception were given at the McCune mansion for all of the officers in attendance. The music for the conference was in charge of the General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, who was sym- 
 pathetically assisted by Miss Edna Coray, General Organist. The numbers were all greatly enjoyed, and especially those by the Relief Society Choir. An interesting feature was the singing of "Come, come, ye saints," by the entire audience at the afternoon general session. Because of the fact that this hymn has been studied and dramatized throughout the Relief Society, and is therefore thoroughly familiar to all, its rendition by the large audience was impressive and inspiring. A striking feature of the conference was the decision of the women assembled to establish, at the Brigham Young University, a Memorial Loan Fund, for girls, in honor of the late President Emmeline B. Wells. Another interesting matter, aside from the regular program, was the adoption of the resolution in favor of the limitation of armaments. Copies of the resolution were later sent to the National Council of Women. President Clarissa S. Williams, in her own dignified and gracious manner, presided at each of the sessions of the conference. She was faithfully supported by her two charming and devoted counselors, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Louise Y. Robison. GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETING. MORNING SESSION. The first meeting of the conference was opened by the favorite hymn, "Our mountain home so dear," followed with prayer by Mrs. Florence Knight, president of the Relief Societies of the Western States mission. President Clarissa S. Williams, in opening the conference, asked for the love and confidence and prayers of the women of the Relief Society, in behalf of the General Board, in order that the Board may carry forward the great and mighty work which has been assigned to it. President Williams expressed the prayer that love and hope, harmony and good feeling may ever be in the General Board, that the members may love and respect one another, and may feel that the work of the Lord is greater than any personal ambition, that the Board may be united as a group of workers, sustaining one another, and enjoying the confidence and the love of one another, and of all Relief Society women. Her prayer was also that, in the stakes of Zion, love and harmony may be maintained and that all the members of the Relief Society may feel to sustain their local, stake and general officers, and give the best that is in them for the great cause. The work which has been done by the stakes and wards, CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 679 during these last six months, has been a verv wonderful work, and extremely satisfactory to the General Board. The members of the Board who have visited the stakes, report that Relief Society women everywhere are being regarded as powers in the local communities, as it is proper they should be; that they are endeavoring to raise community standards by setting up high ideals and by giving intelligent and faithful service. Relief Society women are the mothers of the community, and through their faith and works, and _ their desire to do right, and to live uprightly before their heavenly Father, they will be blessed with his Holy Spirit to assist them in going forward with the work to which they have been assigned. President Williams spoke favorably of the auxiliary group conventions which are held in most of the stakes, and which in her estimation are preferable to the one-day auxiliary conferences. She hoped that some day these will be held in all the stakes. In these conventions, Relief Society women are benefited not only by their own general representatives, but by the representatives of the other auxiliaries who are also in attendance, and the association together in general sessions of all of the auxiliary groups is improving and beneficial. The speaker expressed pleasure in seeing so many officers present, mentioning especially the mission presidents. To all of them she extended love and greetings, and asked for divine guidance throughout the conference.; At this point, President Williams announced the death today of President Orville S. Thompson, of Millard stake, and said that a telegram had been sent to Sister Thompson in behalf of the General Assembly. The subject "Stake Conferences" was discussed by Mrs. Nellie P. Head, president of the Oneida Stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Ida Treseder, president of the Ogden Stake Relief Society. C MRS. NELLIE P. HEAD. To me the preparation and the conducting of a stake conference, or group convention, is a very important matter. When the program outlines reach us from the general board, we meet immediately in a stake board meeting and very carefully go over every detail and discuss every point. We believe in early prepartion and in the division of responsibility. A certain responsibility is placed upon each of the presidency; for example, one may be asked to be responsible for the general arrangement, another for the music, another 
 for flowers. Committees from the stake board are also appointed, and given certain definite work to do. If there are any failures, the responsibility of the failures is placed where it belongs. In our preparation we live over the whole conference and try to prepare ourselves for any emergency which might occur. In addition to our general arrangement, we make it a point to prepare for, and to have, good order throughout our meeting. It is understood by our women that they come into a meeting, not to visit and talk, but to receive instructions and enjoy the Spirit of the Lord. We try to be so orderly that it is not necessary for our meetings to be called to order. In our general preparation for our conference, we also include spiritual preparation. Our officers and board members pray earnestly for help and guidance and for the Spirit of the Lord to be present. For the last two years the Oneida stake has held a group convention, and we like this arrangement much better than the old arrangement for a one-day Relief Society conference. MRS. IDA M. TRESEDER. In the Ogden stake we still hold stake conferences, one in May and another in November. The first step in arranging for a stake conference is to call a meeting of the stake board, several weeks before the conference, to formulate plans; for, in stake conferences as in everything else, the greater the preparation, the greater the success. At this first meeting we name our committees and outline our work. We also appoint members of the board to certain specified tasks, one to look after the house—the heating and ventilating, and another distribution of song books, etc., etc. We ask one of the wards to look after the ushers, and another the decorations, and to another we assign the entire musical program. The regular program is always arranged and assigned early, in order to give those who take part plenty of time for preparation. The program is also carefully timed, so that there is plenty of time for the general board visitor. All meetings begin promptly and close promptly on time.. Just preceding the first meeting, a short prayer meeting is held, after which the stake board members meet and shake hands with the people as they enter the building. During the noon hour we serve luncheon to the people which is furnished by the stake board and prepared and served by one of the wards. We consider this a pleasant and beneficial feature of our conference, where general and stake board members, ward officers and members all come in personal contact with one another. The visitors from the General Board are met at the CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 681 Station, usually by the high councilman who very kindly offers to do this service. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, president of the Boise stake, and Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford, president of the Salt Lake stake,. Addressed the officers on the subject of "The Class Leader." MRS. BESSIE G. HALE. One of the most important officers of a Relief Society organization, in my opinion, is the class leader, for by her the class will either succeed or fail. Of first importance, therefore, to the organization in this connection is the selection of the most competent woman available for this position. Competency in class leaders calls for certain qualifications, takes on certain responsibilities, and entails certain duties which should be kept in mind by those making the selection; and, while all of these qualities may not be found in the most qualified person available, in certain of our socities, yet by having these requisites before us, we can be guided in the selection of the person who must nearly meet the requirements, namely: First, She should be a thtorough Latter-day Saint, with a testimony of the divine mission and teachings of the Church. She should also be loyal to its principles and to its leaders. Second, She should be clean in her individual life, and her conduct should be reputable, for what she does and what she is will always speak louder than what she says. Third, She should be dependable for were she to possess all other qualities to an admirable degree and yet be untrustworthy, she will fail. Dependability means promptness and constancy. Fourth, She should be prepared. She should possess a thorough knowledge of that which she is expected to teach, and should have a clear understanding of the message which is to be conveyed. Fifth, She should have a love for the work, for it is a work not only of the brain but of the heart as well. Her soul should be put into her task, which implies interest and sincerity of purpose. Sixth, She should understand the elements of successful class teaching, and thereby be able to employ all the principles and agencies at her command to make the lesson carry over to all the members of the class, and awaken in them a response. I have given these six principal requirements in their relative importance to my mind. I have, therefore, purposely listed the knowledge of the way to teach as sixth, not that I would minimize its importance, but simply place a knowledge and testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the fundamentals of true character, ahead of the knowledge of pedagogy. At the same time I would strongly emphasize the 
 importance to the class leader of having a knowledge of the scientific principles of teaching, for certainly a thing can be more easily and successfully done by knowing how to do it than by not knowing how. Every class leader should become acquainted with the individual members of her class and seek to understand their several needs, and should secure a responsive co-operation in the discussion of the lesson. A class room may be compared with the business counter where goods are bought and sold. In the class room, knowledge is imparted and ideas are exchanged. At the business counter, the success of the business is attained only when proper value is given in the transaction, and when the dealer has a fresh stock of trade. His customers are not interested when he offers them stale goods. In the class room, success is attained only when both the class leader and members feel that they are receiving proper recompense for their time and effort. Stale ideas are like stale vegetables; they have little market value. When the teacher's mind is sparkling with truths and she presents them in an attractive manner her class work reaches a point where all are benefited. MRS. NETTIE D. BRADFORD. I have enjoyed very much Sister Hale's remarks concerning the class leader, and I feel that if there is anything absolutely necessary in the class leader, it is the Spirit of the Lord to guide and direct her in that which she attempts to teach. She must humble herself in prayer that the Lord may bring from her those things which she has studied and prepared to give to her class. She must also believe in that which she teaches. We are told that the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life. She must be in accord with the Spirit of the Lord and believe, with her whole heart and soul, that which she is teaching, no matter whether it is theology, literature, or the social service lessons; she must be in submission to the promptings of the Holy Spirit to bring out the desired points. A. We can see that the duty of the class leader is very great in preparing her work, in having a fund of knowledge behind all that she says, that can be drawn from, so that her class may feel that she is thoroughly prepared, up, awake and alive to her subject, that they can come to her for help and ask any question desired and get an answer. She should never answer a question unless she is thoroughly familiar with it, but should ask that the question be laid on the table until the next preparation meeting. I feel that it is absolutely necessary that we have thorough preparation. We have a plan CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 683. Worked out in the Salt Lake stake which could not be carried out in the scattered stakes as it is here. We have class leaders for each subject, in each ward, and we have a stake supervisor with two assistants who supervise the work of each department. They hold preparation meetings monthly. We used to meet in union meeting and separate into departments, but we feel that we do not have time enough, so our stake class leaders or supervisors asked for a day when they can call their class leaders or supervisors together and have plenty of time to discuss their lessons. One is appointed to prepare the lesson and give it before the class. After the lesson has been given there is a discussion held and questions asked and answered, and we feel that every class leader is fully prepared to go before the Relief Society and present these lessons in a pleasing and satisfactory manner. I feel that we have received great benefit through this plan. As stake officers we are thus enabled to come into close contact with every class leader in every department in each of our wards. The "Stake Board Meeting" was discussed by Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, of Cottonwood stake, and Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, of Blaine stake. MRS. AMANDA N. BAGLEY. I do not believe any of you have to be converted to the benefits derived from holding stake board meetings. We hold our board meetings once a month, but where it is possible, I would prefer to hold them at least twice a month, because' we cannot do all of the business we wish during that one meeting. We hold a conference every three months, and separate into classes, and here we have been able to plan our work, and because of this we have not felt it necessary to hold board meetings oftener. First, in our board meetings, we unite in prayer. I do not think anything else unites so closely as gathering in prayer. I love to read and think of the signing of the Declaration of Independence. That body of men had been working for weeks and months, and it seemed as if they were not going to be able to accomplish the things they set out to do. Some of the members felt that some of the things should be retained and others felt that the same things should be striken out. Finally, Benjamin Franklin arose and said, "I am a strong believer in the overruling power of an all-wise Providence; let us kneel in prayer." When they arose there was no doubt, no feeling of envy, no feeling of selfishness, and in less than two weeks that document was ready for signatures. We have been organized for nearly seven years and there 
 has never been a word of unpleasantness passed between any of us, there has never been any discord. I do not believe there has been an unkind thought between any of our board members. After prayer we have roll call, and after the roll call, we stransact our business. Next we receive the reports from all of the board members who have visited the wards, and it is surprising the different ways in which we size up a situation; we find that we can't judge an organization fairly by one person's opinion. While one of the board members will see a strong point, probably another visitor will see a weak point. It seems to me it gives us a better opportunity to judge what condition the wards are in by reports from the various officers. If there is any time left we ask for suggestions as to what can be done to benefit the whole stake. After this we have lesson work, which has been carefully prepared. In the meeting there is no whispering, no conversation. MRS. LAURA J. ADAMSON. In one of our board meetings, President Hale once told us that efficiency means three things: to know our work, to know how to do it, and then to do it. In our board meetings we. Come together to learn our work, to learn how to do it, and go forth from there to do it. I have often been interested in standing down on South Temple and watching the News run through the press, and the thought has come to me that back of that finished product there is a working force, a brain power, that is directing that work—that finished product. In our stake board I think our stake work is likened to that power. In our board meetings the force is generated that carries the work on to the wards. I have been visiting the hospital very often lately. I have been interested to see the precision there, and the splendid management. The thought has again come to me that back of that there is a power that I do not understand or even come in contact with, and again it has come to me that in our work our stake board might be likened to that force. I believe the success of stake board meetings depends upon every member of the stake board. | blieve that in our stake the success of our board meetings has been through our executive meetings. We have held this year an executive meeting one week and board meeting the following week. The problems that we wish brought up in meeting. I jot down in my notebook the topics we wish discussed, which helps greatly to economize time, and adds to the success of the meeting. I believe the presiding officer should know every detail of the work that is to be taken up in that meeting. She CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 685 should not depend entirely upon her secretary. It should be noted down, and she would know which are the most important and least important of the topics for that day, and economize her time accordingly. I believe the board members should do their visiting after the meeting is out and not during the meeting. The order of our meeting is very much like that of the sister who spoke before me. We have our prayer, roll, and minutes, and then the correspondence from our General Board and from our wards is taken up. After the correspondence has been dispensed with, we have reports from our sisters who have visited wards. After this we have the head of each department report. We have our board organized as follows: president and teachers: secretaries and treasurers department; enlistment committee, temple and burial clothes, music committee, Magazine, and work day activities. Any new business that we wish to take up, such as planning for conferences, or whatever new business we have, is then discussed. We have always done this in our board, so that each member might be informed as to the work of every committee, and give the head of each department a day to present their work to the board. We go over that and discuss it so that each board member is familiar with the work. 'We have a set time for our meetings. I believe that the success of a board meeting depends as much upon the board members as upon the presidency. The members should come with something to contribute to the meeting. We have found that it is helpful to preview or assign the work. To announce the work to be considered at the next meeting, and to impress the members with the thought that they are expected to come with something to contribute, has helped us. We economize our time by staying with one subject. When one subject is brought up we stay with that subject until it is finished, which is conducive to business like methods. In small boards such as ours it is hard to make the meeting formal, but I imagine where you have large boards it is best to follow as far as possible, parliamentary rules. Board members should keep sacred the things taken up in their meetings and keep counsel. As far as I have been able to watch progress in our board, we have developed leadership by placing absolute responsibility upon the heads of the departments. When questions arise in the ward that pertain to a department, they are referred to this department. This develops initiative and leadership. Sometimes in our executive meetings problems have seemed almost unsolvable but we have been cleared in our stake board meetings with thoughts from various members. The psychology of group work has been wonderful. All minds are put in unison by prayer and when they are all in tune inspiration comes that helps solve our problems. 
 Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, of the general presidency, explained briefly the method pursued by the general board in doing its work, which was followed by reports on the Relief Society Magazine, by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, editor, who read answers to questionaires sent out by the Magazine; Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde, business manager, spoke of the splendid support the Magazine has recived from the loyal Relief Society workers, and of the desire of the Magazine to give good service. The establishment of a memorial loan fund, in honor of the late Emmeline B. Wells, was brought up for consideration before Relief Society stake presidents in the Relief Society semi-annual conference in the Bishop's Building, by Clarissa S. Williams. In recognition of long years of work in the interest of the Relief Society, of which she was for many years president, and of her untiring efforts, in the interest of uplift and education of women, a resolution of the general board for the establishment of a fund was unanimously adopted by the stake presidents, and a copy of it was read with the following letter to the Brigham Young University, to which institution the fund will be given: "Desiring to honor and perpetuate the memory of their late beloved president, Dr. Emmeline B. Wells, who was a faithful and devoted Relief Society worker, and for many years the general president of the organization, and who was an earnest advocate of the education and development of women, the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints wishes to establish at the Brigham Young University, from the General Treasury, a loan fund for girls, to be known as the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund. "The Relief Society wishes, as a beginning of this fund, to give five hundred dollars ($500) with the idea that as time goes on the fund may be added to. The society desires to have this fund used for loans to worthy women of the upper college classes who need and deserve financial help in order to complete a college course; also, that the fund be lent and managed in accordance with the best business principles and at the current rate of interest. The interest, it is thought, will help to insure prompt payment and to increase the fund. "While the Relief Society makes these suggestions, the actual details of the handling of this fund are hereby left to those who handle the finances of the Brigham Young University." The letter was signed by Clarissa S. Williams, Jennie B. Knight, and Louise Y. Robison, general presidency. Counselor Louise Y. Robison reported the Burial Clothes Department in good condition, and invited the visitors to call and inspect the clothing. She said the workers would be on hand to give help or advice, and that if any of the stakes contemplate CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 687 putting in departments, the general department would be pleased to give any advice or instruction needed. Counselor Jennie B. Knight announced and recommended the following courses in nursing: one year Relief Society nurses' ais course given at the L. D. S. Hospital, where ten nurses are needed each August and ten each February; the three-year regular course at the L. D. S. And Dee Hospitals, and the three-year course given at, the Salt Lake County Hospital. She spoke of the splendid training offered in these institutions, and urged Relief Society women to make an effort to get young women in the various communities interested. Further information on nurse training may be had by writing the office. © The secretary reported the following reorganizations since April Conference: San Luis Stake, April, 1921—-Mrs. Johanna M. Harrison, resigned; Mrs. Martha Haskell, appointed. Morgan Stake, July 24—Mrs. Maryette R. Waldron, resigned, Mrs. Mary Chadwick, appointed. Burley Stake, August 28—Mrs. Lucenia Smith, resigned; Mrs. Margaret Cutler, appointed. Cassia Stake, August, 1921—Mrs. Jubeltine I. Jack, resigned; Mrs. Effie H. Walker, appointed. Benson Stake, September 25, 1921—Mrs. LaPriel G. Hyer, resigned; Mrs. Mary M. Funk, appointed. Beaver Stake, April 17, 1921—-Mrs. Cedaressa C. Shepherd, resigned; Mrs. Susan J. Murdock, appointed. Twin Falls Stake, May, 1921—-Mrs. Ann Roberts, resigned; Mrs. Kate Kirkham, appointed. California Mission, May, 1921—Mrs. Louissa W. Jones, resigned; Mrs. Margaret K. Miller, appointed. Eastern States Mission, Sept. 1, 1921—-Miss Edna Hardy, resigned; Miss Mabel Holmgren, appointed. European Mission—Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith, resigned; Mary Wells Whitney, appointed. Hawaiian Mission—FEllen C. Cole, resigned; May Smith, appointed. Organizations: Australian Mission, May, 1921—Miss Edith Eillsea, appointed. A The course of study for 1922 was also announced: Theology, Religion in the Home; Literature, L. D. S. Hymns; Social Service, Home Making. After singing, "The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," the benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Margaret W. Manning. 
 AFTERNOON SESSION _ The afternoon session was opened with congregational singing, and prayer by Mrs. Emily W. Smith, President of the Northern States mission. SOCIAL PROBLEMS. Professor John C. Swenson (B. Y. U.) I am glad to note that there is a greater tendency nowadays to use the term "family welfare work" rather than the term "helping the poor." I like it much better, and so do those who are receiving assistance. I want to emphasize the social aspect or the social consequence of this individual work. I think as a rule we have passed by more or less unconscious of the social consequence of the work that we do. It, in a way, is like dropping a stone into a lake of water, and the waves keep on going until they strike the shore, and so our acts are a good deal more significant than we are aware of. This is the particular aspect that I wish to disctiss, the social consequence or the social aspect of our welfare work. In looking over history we find there has always been charity and almsgiving, and accordingly it became one of the tenants of the Christian church. Among the monastaries they maintained a system of almsgiving which was carried on as a religious duty, but they did not have very much regard for the consequences that resulted from this almsgiving, and in the course of time there grew up around all the monastaries a group of people who became dependent and helpless because they had been robbed of their individuality, and could not take care of themselves. The monks had the best of intentions. They thought they were doing God's service in this work of caring for the poor, but they had really been doing a great deal more harm than good. They did not take into account the social consequences until it became so burdensome to Europe that in the eighteenth century there was a great reaction among the scientists, saying that this tendency to give had gone to such an extent that it had destroyed the capacity of these people to take care of themselves, and a great many of the degenerates of Europe were of that type. We are all aware of the fact that there is that possibility and we must have the consciousness in our mind for the effect or the possible effect. Now, I would not have you think that I am overdoing this thing. Welfare work is a problem balanced between sympathy and common sense. We must not blunt our sympathies. Sympathy is one of the necessary things in human life, one of the healing things, one of the curative things, one of the absolutely necessary things, but if we have an excess of sympathy without a corresponding sense of responsibility, there is likely to be decay Tather than STowth and We are T€sponsible for that, We have 80t to come to the point Of view where we are concerned Not only With Our motive (which May be the best) but we must be conAnother qWestion that i, of great Consequence because of the difficulty: of it, because of the subtlety of it, is what we call menta] health, "[ think yoy Sisters in Welfare work have come UD against 
 ferent point of view, and sometimes that is a difficult problem. I think it is a disease that might afflict anybody at times, [ think there is no attitude that is so wholesome and encouraging as the tendency to come up smiling even if we feel that we have been unfairly and unjustly treated, to face the light and not the We ought to help those who are weak into a new feeling, and if we can-do that we have done a good work. Then there are doing the constructive thing, as living the positive and not the negative life. If there is the possibility in any family of removing this tendency towards 'self-pity or towards the dark aspect of necessary thing to do. Let me emphasize in this work of relief, or in this work of welfare, perhaps not the mere fact of giving, perhaps not the mere fact of supplying the Physical needs of the family, although the October number of the Relief Society Magazine. The point was emphasized that the authority and government of the Church CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 691 is vested in the Priesthood; that the auxiliary organizations of the Church are organizations which have been formed by the First Presidency as helps or aids to the Priesthood, and whatever authority they have comes from the Priesthood. Excerpts were read from the Doctrine and Covenants and from the Bishop's circular, on the office and duty of the bishop, and attention was called to the fact that the bishop is the father of the ward, and is responsible for all of the work of the ward, including the care of the poor, the widow and the orphan. Attention was called to the fact that of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, the Relief Society is the oldest, and its duties are fairly definitely defined. The scope and function of the Relief Society was well defined and established, both by the original statement of its purpose and its long practice in line therewith. The declaration of President Joseph Smith at the time of its organization provides a great, comprehensive constitution for the Society. He said in substance that it should "provoke the brethren to good works, look after the needs of the poor, perform charitable acts, and assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community." After the society was organized the prophet said, "What I do hereafter for charity, I shall do through this society." If the Relief Society is to be the chief aid to the Bishopric, in family welfare work, as is stated in the circular, it would seem to be the duty and the responsibility of the organization to prepare its workers to give the best possible service to the bishops; in other words to prepare them to be ideal servants to the bishop. In order to do this it will be necessary for Relief Society workers to study and to work and to pray. In some wards the priesthood may ask a good deal of the Relief Society. In others wards, the Relief Society may not be asked to do so much, but it is hoped that whatever Relief Society women may be asked to do, whether it be much or little, that they do it well and intelligently. The circular suggests that the bishopric should invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them monthly, or oftener if necessary, to consider general relief work, and to discuss plans for looking after the poor, the sick, and those in distress. If carried out, this will result in close cooperation and mutual understanding. Some courses and institutes have been held in the past where family welfare work has been studied. No effort has been made in these classes and no instruction given that would interfere in any way with the general Church plan as outlined in the Doctrine and Covenants and also in the original meeting of the Relief Society, but the students in these classes have been trying to learn the best methods, and doing individual tasks. Each paragraph in the circular was read and explained and ~ 
 The Relief Society «Visiting Teacher" formed the topic for both special and general discussion. The discussion was le Mrs. Inez K. Allen, president of Utah stake, Mrs. Georgina Marriott, President of North Weber stake, and Mrs. Ovena Ockey; president Emigration ward, after which informal com ments were made from the floor. There seemed to be 2 general desire that teachers' conversation topics, to be used on the monthly visits, be arranged by the General Board and printed either in the Relief Society Magazine, oF teachers' books. It was found that some stakes ate not using topics, that others prefer to arrange their own topics. Tt was finally decided that teachers topics will be prepared by the General Board and published in the M agazine, put that it will be optional with the stakes whether or not they use these topics. MRS. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN.. Mrs. Allen emphasized the point that the responsibility of the Relief Society is to safeguard the women of Zion against the spirit of darkness and evil which may come over them, and that teach pushel. Would they have that spirit of fear if they sensed the experience. Nearly all of our Relief Society women are educated; they have a rich experience to draw from. Tf they are MRS. GEORGINIA MARRIOTTMrs. Marriott felt that teaching is the most jmportant prop in the Relief Society work. Until the teachers of 2 district can feel that the families 19 their district belong to their flock, We 'nto the homes © e is to visit, that she might be 2 uplift am el to that ho home that ig uplifted mentally, mora y or spiritua ly, the teachers, welcomes these visitors M ar- CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 693 tions are called for for a family, nobody should know who the family is except the president. The workers should do the work required without question as to who the donations are for. Above all, confidence should be kept. MRS. OVENA OCKEY. Mrs. Ockey said that teachers should be chosen for faithfulness, spirituality, and intellectual qualities, and should be chosen with consideration for their companionableness. Disagreeable features of teaching are: Prejudice among people who do not understand the purpose and the mission of the teachers, and object to explanation. The prejudice can readily be overcome by using tact and kindness. Some people call the Relief Society teachers beggars, and do not open their doors to them. The pleasant features are: Joy of visiting good families and forming everlasting friendships; joy of carrying the spirit of Relief Society work and explaining the wonderful field of Relief Society work given to women by the Prophet Joseph Smith; striving to be what we are trying to teach others to become; and lastly, the wonderful joy of service, to know that we have helped someone in need. What is greater than to give one's self? "Even as ye have done it unto the least of one of these, ye have done it unto me." Teachers are the backbone of the organization. Many cases of want, spiritual and physical, would not be discovered were it not for the teachers. There would be a smaller membership and the Relief Society work would be far less known if it were not for the teachers. Every teacher should have a burning testimony of the gospel. Teachers should be prompt, and should visit oftener than once a month if necessary. Teachers should never repeat gossip, and never speak publicly of any family's need. A teacher cannot give to others what she does not possess. President Clarissa S. Williams announced to the stake officers the desire of the General Board to inaugurate a movement throughout the Church in the interest of maternity and motherhood, and that the subject had been presented to the Presiding Bishopric, and by the Bishopric to the First Presidency, with the result that both the Presiding Bishopric and the First Presidency heartily approve the plan. The expense connected with childbirth these days is so great that many young couples are compelled to begin the rearing of families by going into debt, and it is the idea of this plan to encourage motherhood and to make it possible for women in child-birth to have good care at reasonable rates. The present idea is to establish a maternity home in Salt Lake as a sort of experiment, and later, if this is successful, to extend the work by establishing similar homes in various centers. The plan, although premature and indefinite at present, also con- 
 templates some form of maternity nursing service for the rural communities. The financing of the proposition was discussed but nothing definite decided upon. The stake presidents heartily favored a movement in this interest and recounted the great needs in the various communities for just such help as this would supply. They were asked to think the matter over and were told that definite information and instruction would be sent out as soon as a definite recommendation can be decided upon, with regard to the proposition and its financing. President Williams reported that the Relief Society Home has been closed, and the building turned over to the Primary Association to be used in connection with the convalescent home for children. The home for girls at the Bee-Hive House meets the needs for which the Relief Society Home was originally established, in a larger and better way because of better facilities, and there seemed to be no further need for the latter. The Relief Society Home, which was established December 19, 1913, has been successfully managed and supervised by the competent counselor in charge, with Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley as chairman. It has been entirely self-supporting from the beginning, and has never been the slightest expense to the General Board, nor the Relief Society generally. Much credit is due Mrs. Nibley for her work in connection with the home. After singing "Doxology" the benediction was pronounced by Mrs. Julia Miller, President of Yellowstone stake Relief Society. MORNING SESSION. PRESIDENT CLARISSA §&. WILLIAMS. My dear sisters It is very difficult for me to appear before you this morning in a speaking capacity, and I pray sincerely that you will give me your faith and prayers that IT may have the Spirit of my heavenly Father to help me, that what I may say may be of benefit to you and may in a way be satisfactory to me. I believe that if a speaker does not satisfy herself it is quite impossible to satisfy those before whom she appears, and I do pray for your faith and prayers. Since our last conference, the changes which were inaugurated by the Presidency of the Church, through President Heber J. Grant, have been carried out and the Relief Society General Board has been reorganized and we have been working slowly to get ourselves into condition to carry on the great work to which we have been appointed. Our beloved leader, Sister Emmeline B. Wells, has been called home to her Father in heaven, and to those of her dear ones who have preceded her. No words of ours can add to the glory of her work, because she was a woman full of the Spirit CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 695 of the Lord, with a desire to do good, and with the talent to do things that would advance humanity in the world. We love, honor, and respect her memory, as we loved, honored, and respected her during her. Life. Perhaps the change in the General Board thas been the hardest because my association with the women who were released from active duty on the Board began when the tnajority of them were women nearly old enough to be my mother, and I grew up under their teachings and their training and their beautiful spirit of love and of desire to do good and to further the interests of the Relief Society throughout the world. There are some of them with us this morning, and we heartily appreciate their presence here. Last conference, when President Grant said to them that their place should always be on the stand, we felt that we would appreciate their presence here with us because while they are not actively working with us now, their love and their sympathy and their prayers must be with the Relief Society, which they have helped to build up, which they have given the best effort of their lives to forward, and that interest surely cannot be snapped off because of active work being relinquished, and we want to say to you all, and to them especially, that we love and respect them, and we desire to maintain the feelings of love and harmony which have always existed between us. And we would appreciate it if they would attend all the meetings as they always have done and appear here because you know then: and you love them. You have to get acquainted with us, we are new to you, you must find out our good qualities and the qualifications that will endear us to you as they have endeared themselves to you. Now, our humble prayer of the Relief Society General Board is that our heavenly Father 'will bless us every one, that we may have his Spirit to lead and direct us and to help us to do the things which are right and proper for us to do. I greet you this morning, my dear sister workers, in behalf of the General Board of the Relief Society. It is a pleasure to us to meet face to face and converse, in a way, with al! Of the splendid women who are giving the best of their lives to the forwarding of this great work of the Relief Society. It is not necessary to recount its organization, its purposes, its aims, because they have been the same from the beginning, from the time that the Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize the women of the Church together. We have looked forward to the same goal, our vision has always been in the future, our purpose has been to do the things which would be for the best good of humanity, not for ourselves alone, but for the communities in which we live, whether they be of us or not of us, because as we can all bear testimony, there are many honest in heart who 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MA GAZINE Now of our alms and Purposes in t always demonstrateg the broadness of our aims and our desires, and we wish to continue that, we Wish to. Fee] that every blessare pleased With the Work we are doing, and who are glad to he Ng which wa nounced upon the lef Society n the be ginning js Continued and 1 richer abundance; that as time goe On, and w, See the nee Sofh anity ge, our hearts will & gospel is Work of love and harmo unity, Jz draws ys together Strife should e ter into the deliberations of th Women th elief Society, b Ove shou] Unite them he spirit of trust in €ach other and €votion to the Priest been iven such blessing. In any other age, and we should in every Way endeavor to live up m. Toa religion, that king Words are more easily Said, kind words 4re more easily done, than Other Words and deeds, and let it be Our religion to be peace makers, | think nothing Seater could be said of any woman than that she is a Peace maker. We all are €voting their time and energy to the buildin 4P of their communities, tha PPreciate their labors, th t we love them, and we Pray for th We do not need to k if hey enjoy the confidence and the Ove and Support of hose in their com munities, because Ow that you are Siving it to them And €n, to that band of Valiant wo en, the war Presidents, counSelors, and Officers, Ose duty: calls them forth ay and b night to Perform their MIssion! We Ove and respect them an Ta of the teacher of today are defined, and finally that name Was decided upon, that they should be Called teachers, CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 697 Now, when we stop to think that the Relief Society has grown from nineteen members to 48,204, that the teachers have grown from sixteen to 15,222, and that the activities have greatly increased, we can realize that there has been growth and progress. It seems to me if we could see in review a pageant of the many thousands of women who have been drawn into the organization, the enthusiasm, and the spirit and the love which unite the women who are doing the work, it would be a wonderful, wonderful picture to us. It seems to me it would be a very poor organization that could not improve, and in the organization and the duties which were given to the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith, great latitude was given for the advancement of the work and for the betterment of conditions surrounding the organization, and I am happy to say, MY dear sisters, that advancement has been made and is being made all the time, that the blessings which were pronounced upon the organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith and which have been continuously pronounced on the organization by the other presidents of the Church, are being fulfilled. Our way is being opened and we are grasping the situations which surround us and we are endeavoring with all our might, with the help of our heavenly Father and the support of these noble men of the priesthood who are standing by us, to assist us in our work, to look forward and to go forward, advancing step by step, until when the great day of judgment comes our prayer will be that we will receive the plaudit, "Well done good and faithful daughters of the Relief Society. You have been faithful over a few things, I will now make you masters * over many." Mrs. Lalene H. Hart expressed her appreciation of the Emmeline B. Wells' Memorial fund for college women, because it would give many girls the opportunity to train for the great task of reclaiming the 'American home which is in a precarious condition during the reconstruction period. She urged mothers to feel their responsibility in the great work before them and to realize that through united work in the Relief Society, 2 great deal could be accomplished. "Every 'Mormon' woman should radiate happiness; it should be her duty to spread joy," was the message of Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter in a short talk, "For happiness reflects the gospel of Jesus Christ." She said there is beauty in everything and the woman should endeavor to see it and should know the genuine workers must know that better service lies in assisting People to help themselves, Sympathetic, intelligent counsel is often the he system of education made Possible through the Church Organization, in that it reaches each individual of the Church and helps him to develop, is the steatest thing about the Church, said ts. Julia A. F. Lund. She outlined three basic Principles of the Church, concrete realization of dependence upon God, empublic Servants, but mothers and homemakers as well, i oiced in her message to the we are a peculiar People." She cited the Word of isdom, the observance of the Sabbath day, the Paying of tithes and temple work, as a few of the many distinguishing CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY ~~ 699 the Relief Society, saying that they will not need to neglect their families in order to attend to the duties. She said there is no organization in the world so adapted to help others, and it offers great happiness to those who would know its service. Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine who was scheduled to take part on the program was unable to do so on account of illness. AFTERNOON SESSION. THE HOME. Dr. E. E. Erickson (U. Of U.). The home problem is both sacred and important, because civilization depends upon it. A state may sacrifice its political institutions, it may sacrifice its religious organization, it may sacrifice its economic institutions, and still retain the essense of civilization, but no nation can afford to sacrifice its home relationship. If it does, it is sttre to decay, and many nations that undertook to sacrifice the family life, decayed and dwindled, and other nations, maintaining high standards of home, arose to ascendency. I have another reason for 'being convinced that the home institution is the most basic institution and that is its influence on my own life. While I appreciate the community, while 1 appreciate the influence of religious organizations, and the schools, yet the one institution that has influenced my life most profoundly has been the home—my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, those individuals with: whom I associated, hours and hours every day, and who met me in all the various relationships, and always had sympathy with me and who never gave me up—that relationship was worth more than all other influences. I feel also that now as a husband and father, that the greatest responsibility that is placed upon me is in the home and with the children God has sent to us. It may seem that I am exaggerating when I say that I believe it is within my power and the power of my companion to cause those children to grow up immoral and become public charges. It is within our power, too, to permit them to grow up to be mediocre individuals, just to breathe and occupy space, and I have the feeling, too, that it is within our power to inspire them to greatness, to make of them good members in our Church, and efficient workers, to make of them good citizens in the state. J have that faith, and I believe that of all of the responsibility that I am carrying in this world, whether professional, religious, or of what nature, that my greatest task in life is to rear those children aright. I am going to look upon the family relationship as a great stream—a stream that has an origin, and that has a course of direction, a stream that may be pure or impure, a stream that 
 we are all concerned with, some as individuals, others in organization form. Some are attempting to direct the stream aright, others are working along the line on the stream to keep it in its boundaries, and to prevent its being contaminated from the banks; others are working a little further down, others are working with the pure water, others are attempting to remove the filth and contamination in the stream, but we are all engaged in that stream, because it is the important stream of life. The Relief Society organization, as it has functioned in the past, seems to have been removing the impurities from the stream in the form of poverty, in the form of sickness, and it has in that function performed a wonderful work. Other organizations in the Church have been dealing with the pure water, and have not come in contact so much with the poverty, sickness and disease. From my way of looking at the situation, it seems to me that there is a tendency now for this great organization, which has been dealing with the impurities to a large extent, with the cases of great poverty or disease and suffering, to feel that it perhaps could better control these problems if it could deal more with the stream of life at the beginning of the great stream. In other words, if it could get up at the source and in some way manipulate the cause of the contamination, so that it could assist in preventing some of the impurities from getting into the stream of family life. One of the problems at the source of the stream is that situation that we call courtship. It seems to be boxed in, that is, you are not permitted to deal with it. I do not know why it was boxed in, unless there was a fear of contamination. Now, if there is any danger of contaminating the source of the stream, we should not leave it alone, but should take hold of it in the proper spirit. There are sentiments and prejudices around that particular phase of the problem, so that most of us prefer to leave it alone, and it is a phase that we laugh about and cry about, but not very often do we think about it to the extent that it gets into our organizations so that it can be talked about and dealt with effectively. I believe one way of avoiding immorality, broken homes, poverty, disease, is to prevent the causes of this at the source of the stream. Some wholesome relationships are extensive and sympathetic friendship among young people. I contend that we have as yet done very little by way of extending acquaintanceship among youth, that we have left them to run their own course and seek out their own companions, and our organizations have done very little. I think good wholesome companionship, lots of good friends, is a splendid source of protection, and it is a duty we owe to young people. You cannot expect a young woman to make a good selection of companion if she has only three or CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 701 four from whom to choose, and these men are not men who measure up to her ideals, morally, spiritually, physically, or in any other way. A source of pure happiness is love based upon instinct and admiration. Love that lasts is a love that is based upon admiration as well as instinct, because young people show quality, character and ability, and we should make sure that these traits receive their proper places in the community. We do riot want our young pople to fall in love with an automobile or with a curly lock or a chew of gum. We want them to fall in love with character, with persons, and we want personality to stand out first of all. There should be education in the sacredness of courtship and marriage. Some of the elements of impurity are undue familiarity among very young adolescent boys and girls, caressing, and embracing and kissing, flirtation, improper and immodest dancing and dress. We must do more than merely point out the problems, we must point out some method of dealing effectively with them. One method is simple enlightenment—giving out information upon these subjects, both positive and negative. There is another problem that has been talked about very much, and that is the husband and wife relationship. People say it is a private matter, that it does not concern anyone else in the world, but it is fundamental, it is the main current of the stream, and unless that relationship is ideal, or approaches the ideal, we cannot expect the relationship between parent and child to be ideal. These are some of the desirable relationships: a growing love, mutual understanding, self-sacrifice, earnest effort at mutual adjustment, and it is necessary to have adjustment always. Human beings are all different and it requires a great deal of adjustment in living such an intimate relationship as husband and wife are expected to live. Other desirable relationships are companionship and the development of the sense of home responsibility. Marriage has great fundamental purposes. Hapiness is one—I do not discredit that because I believe a really happy family is a successful family, but it has other motives, such as bringing children into the world, perpetuating the race and rearing citizens for the community, the Church, and the Nation. These are fundamental purposes and no husband and wife can live long together without realizing these great purposes. Undesirable elements in family life are: no effort for adjustment, deceitfulness, laziness, no permanent home, no children, and no common interest. These are the elements that are negative, that deserve careful thought, and I believe they can be handled by effort. I believe we have come to a period in our lives when we can make this world better. 
 COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT. I hope that never in the years to come will I forget the debt of gratitude that I owe to those dear sisters who have struggled on and made this great Relief Society what it is. It Wwas my pleasure when a girl to go into the temple and one of the most impressive sights there was Sister Bathsheba Smith, and it seemed to me that she was the most queenly woman that I have ever seen. I have had in my home, Sister Zina D. Young, and it was under her ministration and the inspiration of my heavenly Father that I first heard the gift of tongues or the interpretation of them. I have also had the pleasure of visiting on different occasions, though not so intimately, with our late president, and I hope that I may emulate the good example that they have all set, for they have always stood before us as worthy women in Zion. I feel much more a part of this great Relief Society work than I did six months ago, because in connection with some of our associates it has been my pleasure to visit you in your staxes in conventions and conferences and to partake of your kind hospitality. I have noted the efficiency with which you have managed your homes and the wonderful success you have had in conducting the conventions, the anxiety which you have felt as officers to perform your duties, to have your associations measure up with the best associations in the Church, and I feel that this experience has been a great blessing to me. It has enriched my life. I think there is one thing in which we could improve; let us pay more attention to reading the Scriptures, and I would like to urge upon you to do as the Savior said, "Search the Scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and'they are they which testify of me."" We have many great books. One writer has sail that in the best books great men (and I would like to add, women) talk to us, they give us their most precious thoughts and pour their souls into ours. They are the voices of the distant and the dead and make us heirs to the spiritual life of past ages. One of the greatest legacies that has come to us is the Bible; this morning, when Sister Williams mentioned Abraham Lincoln, and his motto to his people, I thought of what he said of the Bible. The little edition that inspired his soul as he sat in the log cabin in Kentucky, in early days, was a cheap edition, brought from England by an act of the American Congress in 1777. On one occasion he said, "I am profitably engaged in reading the Bible; take all you can of this book on reason, and the rest of it take with a faith in God, and if you will do this you will live and die a better man." The Bible is one of the greatest books that God has given to man. We love and believe in it, but we are blessed with another Scripture that gives us the his- CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 703 tory of the spiritual life of past ages and that is our wonderful Book of Mormon; in the last chapter you are promised that if vou will read it with full intent believing in Jesus Christ, you will know by the spirit of the Holy Ghost whether the con- ' tents in its pages are true or not. I remember at one conference, our beloved President Joseph F. Smith said to the young people, "If you will read the Church works, and read the Scriptures, you will have no time to waste in card playing." I have often thought of that splendid instruction. Parents should study the Scriptures and Church literature and give their children the privilege of so doing. Church periodicals are published for our benefit. The Juvenile Instructor, the Children's Friend, the Young Woman's Journal, the Improvement Era, and best of all the Relief Society Magazine are filled with pearls of great price that will be of everlasting benefit to us. I know of one family of boys and girls who are prominent in the life of the community where they live, and I have heard them bear their testimony that the happiest time of their life was when evening came and their mother gathered them around her knee and read to them stories that touched their hearts and instilled in them an ambition to be great and good and kind to all with whom they came in contact. Another picture comes to my mind of the father who took the baby on his knee and read to the mother while she was doing the mending. He read from Scott and others, and I have had the pleasure of going into the homes of some of his children, and they all have small but choice libraries of good books. They belong to the class of young people who are progressive and active and who will uplift the community. We are told that the glory of God is intelligence, that no man can be saved in ignorance. There is just one little passage that I would like to read from the Doctrine and Covenants. It says, "The glory of God is intelligence.