EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
twentieth anniversary on the 6th of Sept., 1888.
The meeting opened with singing and prayer,
after which Prest. Elizabeth J. Stickney made
a few very appropriate remarks. Then the
roll was called, and the minutes of the last
meeting were read and approved. The six
months' report was next read, and then the
minutes of the organization, held Aug. 29th,
1868, were read; also the minutes of the tenth
annual meeting, and those that had their
names enrolled at the first meeting were read,
and those that were present answered to the
same, showing that there were sixteen present
that had attended our meeting twenty years
ago.  A twenty years’ report was then, read,
showing how much had been received and how
much disbursed during that time, and the use
made of the same; also stating how much is on
hand at present. The report showed, also,
how many quilts had been made by the Society,
and the use made of them.


Sister Seren E. Hudson read a piece of
poetry composed by herself for the occasion,
which was very good.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Emily
G. Cluff, Marilla Daniels and M. A. Till, all of
Provo, their rəmarks being very instructive
and encouraging; they also spoke in praise of
the reports that had been read.
	A song was sung by Sister Julia Silverwood,
of Salt Lake City, with an accompaniment on
the organ by Miss Mary K. Boyle.
	Short and appropriate addresses were de-
livered by Bishop George Halliday, Bro. Eli
Openshaw and Sister Elizabeth Wall. Then a
vote of appreciation was given to all those that
had taken parts in the Society, to show that
their labors are appreciated, after which Bros.
Lars A. Johnson and J. C. Stickney each
addressed the meeting for a short time.
	The meeting, a very memorable one, was
then brought to a close with singing and bene-
diction by Bro. L. Openshaw.
	The tables were then spread with the good
things of the earth, and a bounteous picnic
was partaken of, and a very sociable and en-
joyable time was spent, until sunset, then all
retired, seemingly well pleased with the after-
noon’s enjoyment.
			ANN J. STICKNEY, Secretary.
	Santaquin, Utah Co., Sept., 1888.


