NOTES AND NEWS.
	Every newspaper, no matter where it is
printed, is opened at the frontier offices in
Russia and carefully looked over before being
sent to its address, and objectionable matter is
stamped out.
	In Lincoln County, Washington Territory,
the Republicans have nominated Mrs. Pryor
for school superintendent, but under the late
Supreme Court decision women are not eligible
to this office in the Territory.
	A few years ago it was thought improper for
a woman to be a foreign missionary unless she
were a missionary’s wife. Now there are 2,400
unmarried woman in the mission field, besides
probably an equal number of married women.
	Mrs. Hu King Eng, a daughter of one of
the native Chinese preachers, who is preparing
herself for missionary work, has finished her
course in the Ohio Wesleyan University, at
Delaware, O., and entered the Medical College
in Philadelphia.
	The only lady who was assigned a part in the
literary programme of the two educational
days at the Ohio Centennial Exposition, was
Miss Maria Jacques, the principal of the Day-
ton public schools, who gave an interesting ad-
dress on “The Schools of the Future.”
	Col. T. W. Higginson is nominated for Con-
gress by the Democrats of the Fifth Congres-
sional District, Mass. He is taking an active
part in the canvass. If elected, we are sure of
his vote for a sixteenth amendment. His op-


ponent, Gen. Banks, is also a friend of woman
suffrage.
	Mormon missionaries are making such pro-
gress in the rear townships of Wales that
Rev. A. E. Whatham, the Church of England
clergyman in Cardiff and Monmouth, has found
it necessary to meet them on the platform and to
challenge them to a discussion of their doctrines
in print. Mr. Whatham now makes a very
fair proposal to the Saints. He says he will
combat them in the columns of their own offi-
cial journal, and will leave it to a committee
composed of four professors of divinity, two
nominated by himself and two nominated by
the Mormons, to say who comes out best.—Ex.


