	 	      UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, which con-
vened in the meeting house, Provo City, on
Aug. 31st, 1888. Prest. Mary John being
absent, Counselors Emily G. Cluff and Marilla
M. Daniels presided. Conference opened by
singing and prayer. Minutes of former con-
ference were read and approved. Written
reports from the different branches were also
read; four branches failed to send their reports.
	Sister Marilla Daniels was pleased to meet
with us again; felt to pray that the Spirit of
the Lord might be with us while we are to-
gether. Spoke of the absence of Sister John
on account of sickness, and of the duties
devolving upon each member of the Society,
more especially the teachers, what those duties
were, etc.
	The presidents of the different branches
through the County were called upon to give
verbal reports, and responded with few excep-
tions. The reports showed an increase of
faith and unity among the faithful few which
are found in every branch. The forenoon be-
ing taken up with hearing reports, conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Conference  met at 2 p.m. as per adjourn-
ment. Sister Emily G. Cluff said we would
now hear from the southern part of the County,
as we had heard from the northern part in the
morning. The sisters gave good and encourag-
ing reports from each branch, and all bore a
strong and faithful testimony to the truth of
this work.
	Bishop Packard, from Springville, being
present, spoke in praise of the Society of
Springville. Spoke of the organization of
this Society; had seen the words of the Prophet
Joseph verified in numerous instances, where
he said the poor should weep for joy at being
helped by the Relief Society. “There is no
one need want, if they will let their wants be
known. The teachers are active and diligent
in their duties.”
	Bishop Halliday, of Santaquin, felt that the
Relief Society had done a great deal of good;
they had been a great help to him, and he felt
to thank them for it. “The good that has
been done by this Society will never be appre-
ciated on this side of the veil, but will be
commemorated hereafter. You should be pre-
pared to comfort with spiritual as well as tem-
poral food. If Sister Smoot could do so, she
[column 3]
would, no doubt, with Sister Eliza meet with
you here to-day. They would say, ‘Sisters, do
be faithful; do not be discouraged.’ When we
do the best we can we feel approved here, and
will receive rewards hereafter. There is a
great work to be done till all are redeemed; do
not give up, but be faithful as long as you live.
I feel to bless you in the name of the Lord.
Amen.”
	Emily G. Cluff wished to bear her testimony
to the truth of this work. “Our time is up;
let us keep the good Spirit with us.” Asked
the sisters to be punctual in sending in their
reports. Closed by praying God to be with us.
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed for three months.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

