					DANIEL C. GRAVES, Supt.


[Column 1]
﻿THE LAND OF THE CENTER STAKE.
	Elders Edward Stevenson, J. S. Black and An-
drew Jenson have been making a visit during the
last two months to many of the points of interest
associated with the early days of the Church.
Their sketches have been presented to the public
in a series of well written, historical letters,  pub-
lished in the Deseret News, and have attracted
wide interest. The following letter, written from
Kansas City, Sept. 12, 1888, by Elder Jenson, will,
we think, be particularly interesting, because of
its memoir of John E. Page, given by his aged
widow and his son, and because of its reference
to the prophetic Jackson County, of which the
Saints so love to hope and sing. Bro. Jenson
says:	
	Yesterday, before leaving Independence, we
visited the widow of the late John E. Page. She
lives near the Temple lot, and is about 70 years
old. From her and her son, Justin E. Page, who
owns a blacksmith shop immediately south of and
facing the Temple lot, we learned that the late
John E. Page, after absenting himself from the
Church, located in De Kalb County, Illinois,
where he engaged in farming. Later he removed
to a point about six miles north of Sycamore, De

[Column 2]
Kalb County, where he died in the fall of 1867,
being then 68 years and 8 months old. According
to his own request, he was buried under an ash-
tree on his own farm. His son declared that he
died in full faith in the divinity of the Book of
Mormon and the prophetic calling of Joseph
Smith. After his death the widow removed with
the children to De Kalb, and later located at Inde-
pendence, Missouri. Besides the two sons who
reside in the latter place, a daughter of John E.
Page now lives in Tennessee, and a third son
resides in Kansas.
	As Jackson County, the land of Zion, where the
Saints in the near future expect to build a temple
to the Most High, and also a holy city, in which
the Lamb of God shall dwell in peace, I have
taken the pains to collect the following from
various reliable sources:
	Jackson County is located in north latitude 39
degrees and 4 seconds; its northwestern corner
commencing at the confluence of the Kansas
River with the waters of the Missouri, the latter
of which, for a distance of forty miles of its mean-
derings, separate it from Clay and Ray counties
upon the north. Upon a straight line the distance
is 27 miles from the eastern to the western bound-
ary. The length of the eastern boundary north
and south is 23 miles, and the extreme length
from its most northern point upon the Missouri
River to its southern line is 27 miles. It is
bounded on the east by Lafayette and Johnson
counties, south by Cass County, and west by
the Kansas State line, having an area of 385,404
acres.
	Jackson County presents some physical features
found in no other county in Missouri. There are
three elevations or ridges passing through it from
the south bearing northward 30 degrees east.
The water drained from these ridges feed streams
upon the east and west sides, those upon the east
side of the western ridge become tributaries to
the Big Blue, which discharges its waters into
the Missouri, six miles below the mouth of the
Kansas River, and those upon the western slope
empty into the Kansas. The waters drained from
central ridge form streams upon the west side that
also become tributaries to the Big Blue, and those
drained from the eastern slope empty into the
Little Blue, which forms the eastern boundary of
the second ridge. The waters of the Little Blue
are discharged into the Missouri at a point thirty
miles by the river line east of the Kansas.
Waters drained from the third or east ridge form
streams, that also become tributaries of the Little
Blue, flowing west, and those from the east side
flow into the Sni-a-bar, which discharges its
waters into the Missouri about three miles east
of the Northeast corner of the country. These
principal streams having their sources in the
country south and west of Jackson County are
made up of springs that are found upon the up-
lands in great number. Along the streams are
found bodies of excellent timber. The three
elevations mentioned passing through the county
north and terminate abruptly on the Missouri
River the middle one having an elevation of 354
feet above high water mark at a point four miles
north of Independence. The western ridge ter-
minates at Kansas City at an elevation of 292 feet
above high water mark, and the eastern ridge
breaks off near the northeast corner of the coun-
ty. These three elevations, running nearly par-
allel with each other, the eastern and western
approaching the central, finally unite, or consoli-
date in one general elevation about five miles
south and five miles east of the southwest corner
of the county, forming a topographical elevation,
the general direction of which is southwest, and
may be followed by the continued elevation to the
summit of Pike’s Peak, in Colorado, without
crossing a single stream of water.
	These elevations with their perfect drainage
present an exceedingly pure atmosphere through-

[Column 3]
out the entire county, thus precluding the possi-
bility of malaria to exist to any great extent.
Hence it is one of the most healthy and desirable 
places of Missouri from a sanitary standpoint.
	It can be safely estimated that 300,000 acres of
the entire area are susceptible of high cultivation
for agricultural purposes. The soil is very rich
and fertile and the river bottoms are susceptible
of yielding a larger crop per acre than any other
lands northwest of the Mississippi River. The
lands upon which the huckleberry grows are re-
garded as being the richest and most productive.
Wheat and Indian corn are raised in abundance.
The wonderful blue grass grows spontaneously
and its beautiful carpet covers the whole country,
lending beauty to lawns and door yards, and
wealth to innumerable pasture lands. Under
cultivation or in prepared ground its spears grow
to the enormous height of four feet, and its seed
spikes stand firm and erect at the height of two to
three feet. This grass excels all others as a pas-
ture grass. The earliest in spring to attract the
lowing herd, it is the last to succumb to the frosts
and snows of winter, after having furnished good
grazing all through the spring, summer and au-
tumn months. Timothy, orchard grass and red
clover also grow with great rapidity when culti-
vated.
	Being located upon the highest elevation of land
between the Rocky and Allegheny mountains the
air in Jackson County is pure, healthy and sali-
brious. The sky is generally clear; there is
scarcely a day but what some sunshine is seen,
and snow in winter rarely lies on the ground over
a week or ten days.
	Jackson County is especially adapted for stock
raising.
	Of the many sorts of timber which grow to
great perfection are the huckleberry, ash, oak,
elm, hickory sugar, maple, walnut etc.; the latter
has attained a height of from 50 to 100 feet in the
county.
	The county is well supplied with springs of liv-
ing water gushing out upon every hill side. Wells
of from 10 to 50 feet deep give a supply of good
limestone water.
	Jackson County is known for its fine orchards.
Apples, pears, peaches, cherries, plums, quince
and grapes are raised in abundance, and in the
berry line, strawberries, raspberries, blackberries,
etc.
	Independence, the country seat, is one of the
oldest towns in Northwestern Missouri, having
been laid out in 1827 by commissioners appointed
by the General Assembly of Missouri, to pre-empt
a tract of land upon which to locate a country
seat for Jackson County. The original plat con-
tained 240 acres, upon which there are sixteen
springs of pure crystal water. Since then the
city has been largely added to, and the additions
made now include 600 acres within the corporate
limits. The town is located upon an elevation of
1,75 feet above the Atlantic Ocean, and 338 feet
above the level of the Missouri River, being the
highest point in Northwestern Missouri, or be-
tween the Allegahny and Rocky Mountains, along
the same lime of latitude. The court house is
located in the centre of one of the highest eleva-
tions. The grounds upon which it stands com-
prise one acre and a half, being beautified by,
trees and a magnificent lawn of blue grass. From
the cupola of the court house a most beautiful
view can be had of the surrounding country. In
1881 there were 38 stores, 3 colleges and 12
church edifices in Independence. Now there are
a number more. In 1881 the town contained 3,250
inhabitants; now they claim upwards of 5,000.
	There is at present about as much prospect for
the Saints to return to Jackson County to possess
it as there was anciently for the children of Israel
to return to Jerusalem from their captivity in
Babylon, after the seventy years predicted by the
Prophet as the period of bondage were ended


when the wicked Belshazzar mocked the God of
Israel by desecrating the holy vessels taken from
the Temple in Jerusalem. The events of a single
night at that time, however, so completely changed
the condition of the children of Israel, that that
which a day before seemed an utter impossibility,
now became comparatively easy, and the words of
the Prophet were literally fulfilled. Israel did
return to their own land. So, also, shall the words
of the Lord be fulfilled in regard to the Latter-day 
Israel. Zion shall be redeemed as the Prophets
have told, and the Saints occupy this land of their
inheritance.
