EIGHTEENTH CENTURY LITERA-
				TURE:
	To facilitate the study of eighteenth-century
literature, it is convenient to divide the one
hundred and twenty years which succeeded the
Restoration into three equal parts. Each of 
these is dominated by one figure of far greater
intellectual prestige than any other of the
same period. No one will question that the 
first of these is the generation of Dryden nor
the last that of Johnson. It may not perhaps
be quite so readily conceded that the age of
Anne lay under the tyranny of Swift. It will,
however, be found, I think, upon close examina-
tion that neither Pope nor Addison has an
equal claim to be considered the centre of the
action or the hero of the story. They wrote
with consummate skill, but Swift it was who
laid the torch to the standing-corn of thought;
his was the irradiating, the Promethean mind
from 1700 to 1740, and his the force of
character, the thrill of personal genius, that
rivets to itself the main attention of students
throughout that brilliant period.
	The age of Dryden was the most prosaic in
our literary history. In its course theology,
philosophy, even poetry itself, were chained 
either to common sense, or to a ranting rapture
which dispensed with literary sincerity, and
was is fact, more prosaic than all prose. What
mainly flourished under the strong leaden
sceptre of Dryden was satire, in new and strin-
gent forms; artificial comedy, brutal at first,
and harsh, but polished at length to the last ex-
tremity of cynical elegance; burlesque verses,
very smart and modern, which passed for
poetry; the political pamphlet; the clear limpid
art of the letter-writer, modelled, through
Roger L'Estrange, on the directness of the
Lettres Portuyaises; the sincere, naked thought
of Locke, with its dislike of ornament and
carelessness of authority; the first grotesque
babble of modern criticism; the dryness of the
polemical divines; and over it all, covering its
defects as with a garment, the new graces of
the competent current prose of the day. This
is the vestibule of the eighteenth century, and
across its very threshold the rich brocaded wit
of Congreve shakes hands with the urbanity and
grace of Addison.
	The age of Swift is fuller of intellectual ac-
tivity, more genial, more varied, more enthu-
siastic. The coldest period is over, and already 
a faint flush of the summer of romanticism is
discoverable. This fuller life takes many 
forms. In philosophy the age is no longer
[column 2]
content with the bald presentment of Locke's
ideas, but with something less than positive 
originality, calls to its aid the fancy and
ingenuity of Shaftesbury, the brilliant imagina-
tion of Berkley. In poetry, though the
general type is artificial still, there is no longer
the protracted cultivation of one form; satire
takes urbaner and less brutal shapes, and, half
way through the period, the landscape poets
push in with their blank verse, and the lyrists
with their octosyllabics. The drama somewhat
abruptly expires, and while the nation is wait-
ing for the development of the novel, Addison
holds its ear with the humor and dainty senti-
ment of his essays. A delicate amenity, a 
sweetness of expression marks the age of Anne;
and even the ferocities of Swift and Mandeville
do not belie this general impression of increas-
ing civilization of the mind, since the very 
wounds inflicted by these writers show the
tenderness of the contemporary epidermis.
Such satire would not have penetrated a genera-
tion grown pachydermatous under the flail of
Oldham or Lord Dorset. There was a rapid
development of the power of ridicule by prose
and verse, a general sharpening and pointing
of every literary weapon, and it was in this
age of Swift that English prose reached its 
maximum of strength, elegance, and elasticity
combined.
	Something was again relinquished in the 
third period, that of Johnson. Here, to secure
more strength, needless weight was superadded
to language; elasticity was lost in a harmony
too mechanically studied. What was really
best in this third age was directly recovered
from the early Anne writers, as Goldsmith, its
best author, is seen returning to the traditions
of Addison and Congreve. The main contri-
bution of this period to literature is the novel,
which opens with "Pamela" in its first year,
1841. Before the generation closed, the earliest
development of fiction was over and the novel
in decline. In verse, what was not imitative of
the old schools was suggestive of what did not
come till the next century began. On one
hand we have Goldsmith, Johnson and 
Churchill reviving the manner of Pope; on the
other we have Gray and Collins in their odes,
and Chatterton in his verse-romances, prophesy-
ing of Coleridge and Shelley. Everywhere
during this third period the buried and forgot-
ten seeds of romantic fancy were becoming
stimulated, and were pushing their shoots above
ground in Percy's "Reliques," in a "Castle of
Otranto," in a "Descent of Odin." Mean-
while, what was mainly visible to the public
was the figure of Dr. Samuel Johnson, a ses-
quipdalian dictator, not writing very much or
in a superlatively excellent manner, but talk-
ing publicly, or semi-publicly, in a style hither-
to unprecedented, and laying down the law on
all subjects whatever. Around this great man
collects whatever there is of normal genius in
the generation—Goldsmith and Burke, Gibbon
and Reynolds, Boswell and Garrick—and a 
group is formed, to the student of persons and
manners the most interesting that literary his-
tory can supply. So rich is the age in anecdote,
so great in critical prestige, that the student must 
look closely and carefully to perceive that it is
rapidly declining in intellectual force of every
kind, and by 1780 is only waiting for the de-
cease of two or three old men to sink completely 
into a condition of general mediocrity. When
Dr. Johnson dies, the literature of the
eighteenth century is practically closed, and
the work of removing the debris to prepare for
the nineteenth begins.—Edmund Gosse in The
New Princeton Review.


The National Woman Suffrage Association
has adopted a delegate basis of representation,
and at its next annual convention it will no
longer vote as a mass-meeting, but as a body of
delegates.


