EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Deseret Sunday School Union have re-
cently issued a new Sunday School Hymn Book.
The book is well printed and neatly bound in
cloth, and is of a size suitable to be handled by
the children. It contains 254 pages, and 111
hymns. The title page says, "Hymns and Sacred
Songs," "Designed for the use of the Children of 
the Latter-day Saints." The index is carefully
arranged, giving the first words of the hymn, and
the name of the author of each piece. There is
a reference to music—explanatory—and Index to 
subjects. In fact the book seems quite complete,
and must, one would think, be a great help in the
Sabbath Schools and elsewhere. Every child
should have one; children are always impressed 
with hymns and songs learned while in their
young and tender years. They remember the 
little verses they recited and sang, "e'en down to 
old age," consequently it is of the utmost import-
ance that they should be taught precious truths
and pure sentiments in their little lessons. The
Deseret S. S. Union are doing a good and noble
work in many ways—quietly, as well as in the Sun-
day Schools, to educate and benefit the children
of the Saints, that they may grow up to be an
honor and blessing in Israel. The hymns have
been selected and arranged with great care, and
with earnest thought, for the welfare of the youth
of Zion. The book will certainly prove a bless-
ing to all, in the schools and in the homes.
Printed and for sale at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor for 25 cts.
	"REMINISCENCES OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS,"
by L. O. Littlefield, is the title of a very handsome
book issued at the office of the Utah Journal,
Logan, Utah. The book contains 208 pages, and
is in close, readable type for old and young. The 
Latter-day Saints have a great deal of material 
for this sort of writing, and plenty of historical 
facts that are sufficiently interesting and teeming
with variety to suit all classes of readers. It is 
very commendable in Bro. Littlefield to get up a
work of this kind to add to the libraries of the 
people. There is so much of the literature of the
age that is not fit to be introduced into the homes
of the people, that it behooves the Latter-day
Saints to look well and carefully into this matter,
and see what books are being read by their child-
ren; and if they want them to cultivate faith in the
Gospel, it will be a good thing to give them such
books as the one just out from the pen of Bro.
Littlefield. It contains many truths told in a 
graphic way, likely to make a vivid impression of 
the scenes and incidents through which many of


the Saints have been called to pass in the early 
days and times of the establishment of the Church.
Every page of the book is full of interest, and all
those who participated in the events therein de-
scribed, will feel gratified in reading the author's 
version of the trials, troubles, persecutions and 
afflictions of the Saints. The statement of Lucy 
W. Kimball, in the third chapter will be read with
intense interest everywhere. The price of the 
book is $1.00, and it should be widely circulated.
We trust the time will come when there will be
books enough published by this people to supply 
the home market. Reminiscences cannot fail to
do good and to please and instruct, as well as
benefit all who peruse its pages.


