WOMAN'S VOICE.
EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
      'Tis a great satisfaction to me to read of the 
great amount of good our many sisters are 
doing, and while perusing their letters in our 
very valuable paper, the idea presented itself
to my mind that perhaps if we were heard
from occasionally it might possibly create some
gratification for others, such as those who in 
times gone by worked with all their hearts
with  us for the promotion of our cause,
especially those dear sisters who have been 
driven, as it were, into other territories to avoid,
if it could be, those who would harass and 
persecute us.
     We are a plain, matter of fact little band, 
desirous of keeping pace with any of the
organizations in doing good, teaching and liv-
ing in accordance with the simple doctrine of
Christ, our Lord and Master; and with all that 
we are passing through at the present time, we
know that there is grand cause for us to "re-
joice and be exceeding glad." 
      For the benefit of many of our workers
who are separated from us for a season, we


just want to tell what the Relief Society sisters
did on the Twenty-fourth of July. Of course
there was the usual celebration in the morning,
then at 1 o'clock p.m., all those over sixty years
of age, all the widows and those whose hus-
bands were in exile repaired to the large
school house, where a most sumptuous repast
was spread with excellent taste and the very 
best of order, and indulged to their own satis-
faction in partaking of the substantials and
dainties that had been prepared for them, and
I assure you it was a very pleasing picture to 
behold, and we would have been well pleased
to have had the presence of some whom we 
know will read this with many fond remem-
brances.
	After dinner the committee cleared every-
thing away in such a quiet, orderly way, it was 
surprising. Then we sang, recited, etc., and
danced until we all had enjoyed ourselves so
long that we were quite ready to go home.
	We could tell you much more, but not wish-
ing to impose upon your time or patience the
first time, we will just say, "God bless the Re-
lief Society and the WOMAN'S EXPONENT."
			SARAH E. WHITNEY, Sec.
	Parowan, Iron Co., Aug. 5, 1888.


