NOT A DROP FOR ME.

No, thank you, boys, not a drop for me now,
Though you say a little wont harm;
I've tried that same thing, and know how
Little it takes to break the charm.
One drink braves another with me,
And when I've had two I want more;
Then I'll tip my glass and drink No. three,
And get drunk and crazy on No. four.
Drunk and crazy. Do you see that boy
Just passing around the corner there?
He, a few months ago, was a mother’s joy,
With a happy smile on his face so fair,
With a bounding step and a cheerful voice,
A mind that promised the world much good,
To do right or wrong he had his choice,
And he chose the latter, as most of us would.
And now he’s so low in humanity’s scale,
With his bloated form and darkened brow,
That he gives no heed to a mother’s wail,
That would win him to virtue even now.

I don't give advice, “I’ve been there myself,”
And it don’t take well every time;
A fellow, that’s drinking lays advice on the shelf
Till he spends his very last dime.

Example’s the thing to bring a man back,
And ragged and hungry children and wife;
Just think if there’s nothing at home you lack,
Ere you pawn for a drink your pocket knife.

Yes, your pocket knife, for a man will sell
The coat from his back for the poison drink,
To steep his mind with this essence of hell;
Of manhood’s chain he’ll break the last link.
I know that the grass on the drunkard’s grave
Grows as green as where the Christian rests;
But a great hereafter the soul must brave,
And the drunkard then will fail to be blest.

’Tis whiskey that fills our prisons all,
’Tis whiskey that tightens the hangman’s rope;
’Tis whiskey that turns life’s sweets to gall,
’Tis whiskey kills joy, kills life, kills hope.
“Taste not, touch not, handle not,”
With God’s help this my motto shall be;
Though in trouble I live, and in poverty rot,
From the curse of intemperance I’m free.

And now when my long day’s work is o’er,
And I hasten home to wife and child,
Mattie sits waiting me at the door,
With a smiling face, once haggard and wild.
And I cast my eyes to the sky above
And thank the Father who gave me life;
For blessings on me and mind, and the love
That has banished from me this curse, this strife.
	MRS. M.A.M. SALTER.
Sylacauga, Talladega Co., Ala.


