NEW ORGANIZATION.
	On Tuesday, Oct. 16, 1888, a meeting was held
at Hunter Ward, Salt Lake Stake, for the purpose 
of organizing a Relief Society, Bishop Miller pre-
siding. Meeting opened by singing, “On the
mountain tops appearing,” etc. Prayer by Coun.
J. T. Evans. Singing, “An angel from on high,”
etc.
	The Bishop made a few suitable remarks in re-
gard to the object of the meeting, and Prest. M.
I. Horne followed him, speaking concerning the ob
ject and effect of these organizations; referred to
the many benevolent institutions in the East, and
also to the interviews and conversations she had
with the people she met while abroad.
	After she had concluded, the Bishop spoke of
his interest in the matter, and his anxiety to have
the sisters in his ward organized in conformity
with others, and nominated Sister Jeanette Coch-
ran to act as President of the Relief Society of
Hunter, and Sisters Charlotte Neilson and Eliza-
beth Evans, Counselors, Mary Cochran, Secre-
tary, and Sarah Morris, Treasurer. These
officers were unanimously sustained, and seventeen
sisters who were present gave their names and
were enrolled as members of the Society. The
President and other officers were then set apart
by the Bishop and his Counselors; Bishop Hard-
man, of Pleasant Green, was present and as-
sisted. 
	After the organization was completed the
Bishop made some remarks upon local duties, and


alluded to the counsel given at the late General
Conference.
	Sisters E. S. Taylor and E. B. Wells each
addressed the meeting a short time, principally
in regard to the position occupied by the women
of Zion, and the many responsibilities resting
upon them. Exhorted all to diligence and faith-
fulness.
	Sister Horne gave some explicit instructions to
the sisters in relation to the newly organized So-
ciety, and spoke upon union particularly.
	Elder Joseph Horne occupied a few minutes,
dwelling mostly on the importance of teaching the
children the principles of the Gospel in their
early years.
	After singing, the benediction was pronounced
by Elder A. A. Jones.


