REV. EDWARD P. ROE.

	In the death of Edward P. Roe, many
readers of fiction have lost their favorite author. 
Mr. Roe may not have been among our great-
est novelists, but he was one of the most suc-
cessful.  He was born at Windsor, New York,
in 1838, educated at Williams College with
the view of entering the ministry, and after a 
year at Auburn Theological Seminary became
chaplain of the Second New York Cavalry.


In 1864 he was appointed one of the chaplains
of Fortress Monroe hospitals.  After the war
Mr. Roe accepted a call from the Presbyterian
Church at Highland Falls, New York, and it
was there he gathered the materials for"Nature's
Serial Story."  In 1874 he removed to Corn-
wall on-Hudson, and in this beautiful retreat, 
surrounded by fruits and flowers, which he 
cultivated for the sake of his health, most of
his books were written.	
	In the preface of his novel,  "Without a
Home," he tells how he came to be an author.
The burning of Chicago made a powerful im-
pression on him, and after spending several
days among the ruins and studying the striking
features of the catastrophe, he wrote his first
novel, "Barriers Burned Away,"  a work
which had a large sale, and which quickly
gave him a reputation as a writer. He has 
since devoted himself to authorship, and the
sixteen works, mostly novels, which he has
produced, have had an aggregate sale of about
750,000 copies.  "Of Barriers Burned Away"
69,000 copies have been sold; of "Opening a
Chestnut Burr," 68,000; "Without a Home,"
60,000; "From Jest to Earnest," 60,000; "Near 
to Nature's Heart," 53,000; "A Knight of the 
XIX Century," 53,000; "A Day of Fate,"
50,000, and the sales of other works from his 
pen range from 25,000 to 45,000.  Mr. Roe's
latest novel, "miss Lou," is in the printers'
hands.  The figures here given justify the
statement that Mr. Roe's Works have a larger 
number of readers than those of any living
American novelist. 
	The tone of Mr. Roe's works is worthy of
his calling, as all of them are characterized by
a moral purpose.—Selected.


