RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

	Whereas, our Heavenly Father has seen fit to remove
from us our esteemed sister, Ellen Clayton Miller, President
of the teachers of the Nephi Relief Society, and,
	Whereas, we realize our loss in her death, therefore,
be it


Resolved, That her removal from our midst is deeply
felt.
	Resolved, That we deeply sympathize with her bereaved
husband and friends.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be sent to
the Ensign and WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication, and
also be placed on the records of the Nephi Relief Society,
		AMY L. BIGLER,
		M. E. TEASDALE,
			Committee.

	DlED, at Coalville, Summit Co., Utah, August 31st,
1888, after a lingering illness, of pneumonia, Margaret
Gardner Robinson, wife of Elder John Robinson. Sister
Robinson was born Feb. 16th, 1836, near Coxhoe, Durham
Co., England. Was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in the year 1851; emigrated to
the United States in 1856, and came to Utah in Capt. John
R. Young's company of emigrants in 1863, stopping at
Coalville, where she continued to reside until her death,
except a temporary sojourn at Almy, Wyoming Ter., for
the past two years. Sister Robinson was connected with
our Relief Society from its earliest organization, her name
being found on the first list of enrolled members. Her
desires and labors from that time have been continuously
for the furtherance of the object for which our Society was
organized, and in the several offices to which she has been
called, her labors have always been faithfully and unremit-
tingly performed. Sister Robinson was no ordinary
woman in character or ability, A general sense of per-
sonal loss is felt by all who were privileged with her ac
quaintance. Warm-hearted, generous and kind, she drew
her friends close to her, and they loved her for her virtues.
	For her family we have heart-felt sympathy for their loss;
their separation is but for a time. She has gone to a well-
earned rest from life's troubles and toils, living in full faith
in the Gospel, she died in the full confidence of a Christian's
hope, awaiting the resurrection of the just.
		COM.
	Coalville, Oct. 20, 1888,


