IN MEMORIAM.
LIBBIE WELLS.
	Again in sadness we feel the loss of another
one beloved. It was all so sudden and so strange,
that only as the days pass by and we no more see
her lovely face, or hear her pleasant voice in the
familiar places where she was wont to be, do we
begin to realize that it must be true, and she has
gone, gone from our midst; that “already, kneel-
ing at the throne, she has received her welcome,
and is resting on the bosom of her Savior.”
Calmly and sweetly she seemed to sleep, and no one
dreamed it was the last, long sleep, from which she
never more would waken. Carefully they moved
around the darkened chamber, and only in whispers
spoke, for fear of waking her, until long hours
had passed, and still she slept, strangely slept;
then in alarm they tried to wake her, but all in
vain; cries, calls, entreaties, moans, were alike
unheeded; the angel of death had claimed her,
and was bearing her soul into another realm.
	How natural it must have been to her to fall
into a painless, quiet sleep in her earthly home,
and to awake in heaven; but, alas! how strange to
us to see one so cherished, in seeming health,
sleep her life away, and never utter a single part-
ing word. Her few years on this earth she doubt-
less now recalls as but a happy dream, and in her
glorious home awaits its fulfillment, when, with
all her dear ones, now so sadly bereft, she will
dwell forever, evermore.
	By all who knew her she was greatly beloved
and admired, not alone for her extreme beauty
and charming manner, but her devotion to her
loved ones and her motherly tenderness. “If
human love has power to penetrate the veil (and
hath it not?) then there are yet living here a few
who have the blessedness of knowing that an angel
loves them.”
	Many and beautiful were the floral offerings
from friends, who could do nothing more, only by
these sweet, silent tributes express their sympathy
and love. Sweet and exquisite were the songs
sung at the home, ere her mortal body was borne
to its last resting place, and eloquent and inspiring
were the words of comfort and hope uttered by
friends whose hearts were also bleeding.
	We dare not question what we do not under-
stand; strange though it seems to us that one so
needed here should be called from earth, we truly
feel, “Thou hast all seasons for thine own, O
death!” and some day, perhaps, as we wait and
wonder, the mystery will unfold, and in praise our
hearts will say, “God knew the best.”
	Mary Elizabeth, the daughter of H. S. and
Marion M. Beatie, and the wife of Heber M. Wells,
was born at Salt Lake City, Dec. 9, 1858, and
died on Saturday, Oct. 13, 1888. A wide circle
of friends mourn their loss in losing her, but their
hearts ache more for the sorrowing husband, the
three little children—Manning, Hebe and Mary—
in the home so lonely, and the widowed mother.
If sympathy and kind wishes can aid, they are
yours.
	A. W. C.


LIB.
To the regions of rest, where the blissful abide,
Rocked to sleep on the waves of Eternity’s tide,
Thou art gone in the bloom of thy beauty so rare,
And a bright star has dropt from Life's firmament fair.

Dost thou dream of the sorrow bewailing thee here,
Of the once happy home, of the hearts sad and drear,
That were wont to brim over with gladness and glee?—
Though they ne'er knew delight if 'twere absent from thee.

Art thou mindful of him, thy young life’s only love,
Whose fond soul, sorrow-bowed, fain would seek thee
	above,
Save 'twere duty to bide where stern destiny’s thrall
Has enchained him a captive, awaiting God’s call?

Will thy angel heart yearn for love's tender caress
From thy little ones, left in the world motherless?
Is memory immortal, or aught to thee now
The burdens 'neath which thy soul erstwhile did bow?

Soft as falls from the fountain of life the glad dew
O'er the sun-withered flow'r, till it blossom anew,
Was the voice that gave answer, so silent, so sweet,
Ne’er did music of earth the rapt senses so greet:—

Dost thou mourn, love, my absence? Behold I am here
At thy side, though unseen, and shall ever be near.
Deem me not with the dead; ’tis from death l am free;
And ’tis thou that art with them—my darlings and thee.

For am I not still thy companion and friend? 
Or can death break the sealing that knoweth no end?
Where else should I be, love, than here at thy side;
Ever near thee to cheer thee, whatever betide?

And our babes, though bereft of a mother’s fond care
In the life I have left; shall they not claim a share.
Of that love which alone may the ransomed e’er know,
As they lave in its waters, or bask in its glow?

Is memory immortal? Aye, ever and e'er;
All that life hath e’er known, or forgotten, is here
Plainly writ in the book of the soul, where we read
Of the heart’s every hope, of the past's every deed.

Ne’er grieves the glad spirit o’er pains that are past,
Nor sighs for earth’s pleasures, too sinful to last;
For the summit is gained, and the mystery riven
Of the wisdom of God and the glory of heaven.
							O. F. WHITNEY. 
To my dear friend Hebe, October, 1888.


