EDITORIAL THOUGHTS.
	For several years past some very philanthropic
ladies of the East have been (one would think),
greatly troubled concerning the condition of the
women of Utah, and they have, in various ways,
sought to obtain money from charitable institu-
tions, and from the public treasury of the country,
ostensibly to assist in the suppression of plural
marriage and all "its terrible conditions," which,
according to their ideas, its practice has wrought
among the people here in these valleys of the
mountains. They forget the dreadful degradation
of women near home, in their own cities and
towns, or are totally blind to the sin and crime
that abounds in the very heart of the nation, or,
scripturally speaking, they fail to remove the beam
from their own eyes, but reach away over the Rocky
Mountains, penetrating into the very fastnesses to
search and discover the mote in the eyes of the 
"Mormons;" and they think, forsooth, that they
have discerned it in the practice of a principle
that the ancient prophets and patriarchs embraced,
and that God himself approved, he acknowledg-
ing those very men as doing His bidding, walking
in His paths, and in various other ways. But 
without entering into any discussion of the sub-
ject itself, or any dissertation upon the merits of
its practice (especially as Congress has decided
that men can no longer marry other wives, or
recognize those whom they had already taken
previous to the passage of laws provided on pur-
pose to punish the "Mormons"), instead of making
any defence even, because it is utterly useless
now, Congress having decided all things for the
people, as though one's conscience was not to be
considered at all, we only want to mention a few
facts in relation to the methods, by means of
which these anti-Mormon women obtain money
"to aid in suppressing polygamy."
	Foremost among the women of the world who 
have joined this campaign, and whose sympathies
have been so deeply aroused as to cause them to
weep freely, and pray long and loudly for "the griev-
ous wrongs in Utah, done under the cloak of relig-
ion," is Mrs. Angie F. Newman. She has continued
her intercessions in public and in private for years
wherever an opportunity offered, or she could
succeed in making an opening, to be heard on this
exciting topic. Her name is thus becoming widely
known, and she has made a national reputation by
crying down the "Mormons." What her lectures
and arguments are, which she uses so freely and
with such eloquence, as to draw money from the
public treasury, it is easy to see from the reports
to the leading papers of New York and Washing-
ton, and, strange to state, from the Congressional
Record also. It is well that her reports and testi-
monials are given to the public press, for through
these popular sources, "he who runs may read,"
[column 2]
and truth and error may meet in open conflict,
for these untruths cannot pass without contradic-
tion, and every honest-hearted person who ex-
amines without prejudice will discover the truth,
and "Mormon" women are not afraid of the result.
For instance, Mrs. Newman pictures plural wives
as wretched, ignorant, down-trodden, and totally
incapable of maintaining themselves temporally,
or protecting themselves morally; their situation
is deplorable by reason of their helplessness and
illiteracy, having never been taught independence
or self reliance, therefore, "Congress must pro-
vide for these incompetent persons."
	Mormon women themselves claim that they
know their own history and condition better than
any one else possibly can, and that they have no
need or occasion for the money obtained, or
methods introduced by these officious sympathizers
under false pretenses, to better their circum-
stances and lift them to the plane of modern
civilization, such as the Gentile world claim as the
EXCELSIOR.
	Recently in Mrs. Newman's lectures she told a
sensational story, one or more, to the W. C. T. U.
in New York, that perfectly horrified them, and
would have terrified the "Mormon" women still
more, had the stories been true; but when contra-
dicted by reputable non-Mormons, as well as real,
live Mormons, what will Mrs. Newman do for ma-
terial to draw upon in the future? Mrs. Newman
has a great deal of polish, and knows what will
take with the religious element outside, and withal
carries an influence that many stronger women of
positive character are not able to maintain. What
a pity her talents are not made use of in the right
direction—in the lifting up and reforming and
bringing back to lives of usefulness those who
have strayed from the paths of virtue, or fallen
victims to the seducer or betrayer of innocence.
If to such charities she would devote her energies
and efforts, she could find abundant opportunity,
and for such a class of women Congress would do
well to provide "Industrial" Homes.
	Here in Utah there are more domestic and other
industries already, than there are women to supply
places and the need for work. Every woman and
child is or may be provided for, because of the
perfect organizations that exist throughout all the
Stakes of Zion, that cover the land from east to 
west, from north to south, wherever the Latter-day
Saints are located. It is one of the principles of
the religion of this peculiar people that they pro-
vide for the poor; it is an injunction of the Savior,
"The poor ye have always with you." The condi-
tion of the Mormon women is only deplorable because
of the interference of Congress with their marital
relations; the breaking up of happy homes, and
the separation of those bound together by the
most solemn ties and covenants, and the love that
is stronger than death itself. These things have
come about through the misrepresentations and
falsehoods circulated by unprincipled people for
their own selfish purposes, and not for the love of
virtue and righteousness, by any means.
	The thousands of tourists that have visited Utah
during the last few years, some of whom have
taken pains to investigate a little into the condi-
tions of the people, know that no such state of
society exists here as is represented by these men
and women who, for the sake of gain and notoriety,
join the popular outcry against the "Mormons."
Ladies of culture and refinement who have visited
here and spent some time among the people,
meeting them in their homes and socially, have
informed us that on returning home and telling the
simple truth about the "Mormons," they have been
berated as though it was a crime to tell the truth
of a people so despised; and they were either
accused of having been "converted to polygamy"
or bought with "Mormon" money, or that they
had only seen what is termed by the outside world
"gilt-edged Mormonism."
[column 3]
	Recently, while traveling on a railway train, four
gentlemen in conversation struck upon "Mormon
ism," in our hearing. Evidently they knew very
little of its principles, but they had been in Salt
Lake, and each one seemed disposed to "tell it
all." One man said he had been in Salt Lake
City frequently, and that once while traveling
from Chicago to this city he met a charming young
woman, with whom he conversed considerably
about the "Mormons;" he denounced Brigham
Young as an impostor, and so on, and expressed
himself very emphatically against the practice of
polygamy, etc. She apparently acquiesced in all
that he said. After his arrival in Salt Lake, he
chanced to meet her on the street, and recognized
her; a gentleman in whose company he was at
the time, rather astonished at his knowing a
"Mormon lady, said: "Do you know her?" "Well,
yes," he replied, "we traveled together a part of
the way from Chicago." The friend then in-
formed him that she was the granddaughter of
Brigham Young, and that her husband was under-
ground, and had been for two or three years, and
that she was a firm believer in the doctrine of
polygamy, etc. Now, to one acquainted with the
family of Brigham Young this was very funny, to
say the least, but it shows how far off people get,
as Brigham Young has no granddaughter married
to any man who is either in exile, or under-ground.
This subject of "under-ground" was immediately 
taken up by the party conversing, and inquiries
elicited the following explanation from the man
who knew it all. He said the "Mormons" had a
system of under-ground tunnels, and that the
deputies and detectives, vigilant as they were,
and the best the government could employ, had
never been able to discover how it was managed,
or where ingress, or egress were obtained; that
the man that had given them the most troupble of
any, and the one they wanted to get the worst was
"Cannon," who was now the President of the
Church, and had come out and given himself up
since "Cleveland" had appointed a Democratic
Judge. He went on to say a great deal more
about "this" man "Cannon," and the "Mormons"
all being democrats and solid for Cleveland, etc.
One of the men who was older and evidently
wiser, and who had traveled in China and other
foreign countries, began to relate stories of the
condition of women and female children in  those
lands, and the conversation drifted off into the
greater absurdities he could tell, to which "Mor-
mon" stories sank into insignificance, and they
finally dropped the "Mormon" topic.
	To one so well acquainted as the writer with
"Mormonism" and the people, it was more than
absurd to sit silently and hear these ridiculous
tales about under-ground tunnels, "Mormon"
treasures, their politics, etc., and who presided
over the Church, and his unbounded influence
and a great deal more of the same kind of thing. 
No doubt the same stories are told over and over,
and each time exaggerated and elaborated, and
the people swallow these fabrications as facts, and
circulate them far and wide. Sensational stories
about "Mormons" are about like "Baron Mun-
chausen" and "Sinbad, the Sailor," tales, and will
by and by be looked upon by those who have read
and heard them as just as ridiculous. Mrs. New-
man and the Industrial Home business may
prosper for a time, but Congress will learn at last
that "Mormon" women will not accept help in
any such way, and that their belief in their re-
ligion is "without money and without price. They
are not to be bought in any such way, and how-
ever ignorant and uncultivated the world may
think them, they scorn and despise such methods
as these professedly "Christian" women resort to
to obtain money and favor and notoriety. They
can look with pity upon those afar off, who are
deceived in regard to the conditions here, but for
those who come among them and partake of their
hospitality and know the truth, and then go away


and boldly and openly declare falsely concerning
the situation, they can only have the most severe
contempt. But they are in the hands of One who
knows the secrets of all hearts, and who will
eventually “come out of His hiding place,” and
until that time wickedness will prevail, and those
who wish to keep the laws of God will be persecu-
ted; but for those who walk in the light of the
Gospel, and are steadfast, clinging to “the iron
rod,” there is no need of fear.
	Therefore, the women of the Latter-day Saints
can pursue the even tenor of their way, and per-
form the duties, of every-day life, laying a sure
foundation in the hearts and minds of their child-
ren, that they may grow up in the knowledge of
God and his ways, walking in His precepts and
obeying His commandments, and while they do
these things, and all others required, the Lord
will fight their battles and provide for their de-
liverance from the bondage of their enemies in
His own way, to the astonishment of those who
are waiting and watching for their downfall and
destruction.


