	    BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Box Elder Stake convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 11th of
September, 1888, at 10 o'clock a.m., Prest.
Harriet A. Snow presiding. After singing,
“Come, let us anew,” etc., prayer was offered
by Sister Harriet Hunsaker. Singing. Roll
called. Minutes of previous conference read
and accepted.
	Prest. H. A. Snow: “I consider it our duty
to educate ourselves up to our privileges; it
takes a little means to carry on the work
properly; we need to be energetic. In order
to have confidence in each other, we must live
up to our duties, speak well of each other, and
not notice the faults of others too much, but
watch ourselves, for we must overcome our
failings, and be faithful.”
	Statistical and financial reports from fifteen
different branches were read by the Secretary,
Mary E. Snow.
	Prest. Dewey, of Deweyville: “It gives me
joy that I have a testimony for myself; I have
a desire in my heart to be humble and faith-
ful."
	Prest. Harper, of Calls Fort, spoke of the
difficulties for mothers to come from a distance.
	Prest. Petersen, of Bear River City: “I feel
thankful that I am able to be here.” Sister
Petersen had recently recovered from a severe
sickness.
	Prest. Harriet Hunsaker, of Honeyville:
“We need to be instructed from day to day,
that we may not fall away.” Spoke of the
danger in pleasure seeking.
	Prest. Christina Jensen, of Mantua: “We
must exert ourselves to attend our meetings.
We always receive encouragement and strength
by speaking one to another.”
	Prest. Hubbard, of Willard City: “I re-
joice that I have been kept in the faith; I am
thankful for all the blessings we enjoy. It is a
time when we should be prayerful. What a
blessing that we have a Father in heaven;
what a blessing to be a Saint, but I realize
every day how hard it is to be a Saint in very
deed. How beautiful it is to be a Latter-day
Saint; it is those who will receive the reward of
the faithful.”
	Coun. Olivia Widerborg: “We can not
afford to neglect our duties.” Spoke of seri-
culture and home-manufacture of hats. “I
believe in a practical religion.”
	Miss Fannie Graehl read the account of the
Stake Treasury. Singing. Benediction by
Coun. Susannah P. Boothe.
	Afternoon session: Singing. Prayer by
Coun. Adolph Madsen. The Stake board pre-
sented by Mary E. Snow and sustained.
	Coun. Susannah Boothe: “We are not all
tried in the same manner; some are tried in one
way, some in another.” Spoke of the hard-
ships of the pioneers.
	Prest. of 2nd Ward, Mary E. Snow: “I
often wonder if I appreciate fully the great
blessings I enjoy.”


Prest. Jensen, 3rd Ward: “I realize we do
not fulfill our duties as we ought to; each one
must work for herself to obtain an experience.”
	Prest. Watkins, 4th Ward, and Emilia D.
Madsen spoke next.
	Sister Sophia Hubbard: “I feel I have
passed through too much to become slack in
my duties.”
	Sister Susannah Facer: “There are not
many of us that escape trials, but let us strive
to pass through them with grace; they will be
sanctified unto us.”
	Sister Harding: “We should take the
Juvenile Instructor and other good works, that
our sons and daughters may find good and in-
teresting reading matter at home.”
	Prest. Rudger Clawson: “I would have been
well satisfied to sit and listen to the testimonies
of the sisters. One great effect of these meet-
ings is that it will awake us, that we may not
go to sleep. This is a good occasion, every 
three months to ask ourselves, ‘Have we im-
proved? In the last three months am I a better
woman, or a better man?’ There is a wonder-
fully large field of labor before you, but I think 
the mother’s greatest mission is to instruct and
educate her children.”
	Bishop Dewey: “I feel we are equally en-
gaged, male and female; our works are a little
different, but all tending to save souls.”
	Coun. Adolph Madsen: “I regret to occupy
the time that belongs to the sisters; I rejoice
for the good feelings in this part of the Lord’s
work.”
	Bishop Hansen, 4th Ward: “I rejoice in be-
ing here. I think very often our trials are
magnified in our imaginations; when I was in
the ‘Pen’ I felt as though I had no trials.”
Prest. Harriet Snow: “I believe we have all
been benefited; we all should wish to learn,
that we may be a blessing to humanity. I 
should feel more encouraged to gain good
health by striving to fill my duties in the king-
dom of God.”
	Singing. “Lord, dismiss us with thy bless-
ing.” Benediction T. F. Madsen.
