[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Eleanor S. Muir]

By Eleanor S. Muir
I AM happy that my calling is identified with the Relief Society Magazine. I want to share the joy of its possession and its high ideals with every Latter-day Saint woman in my stake. My goal is not percentages.
Percentages are useful as a barometer; they tell a story; they tell me whether or not we are a little closer to our real goal. Our real goal is to build homes by placing in them a magazine which carries vital messages every month. How can we be sure of success in our Magazine work? To me the answer is organization. As stake Magazine agents we should first plan our own program, then assist the ward agents to make plans, giving them as much help as possible in the execution of these plans.
Then comes the check-up. I think success is more assured if some member of the stake board is responsible for the Magazine all of the time, rather than having the work assigned to some member during the the Drive and then letting it drift the remainder of the year. 'The Magazine work is year around work.
There are many obstacles which beset the path of a Magazine representative. The greatest of these is perhaps a wrong mental attitude toward the work. If a representative approaches her work feeling that she does not care much for it and is only doing it because it is her duty, then she fails before she has started. If she has the attitude that only half the women in her ward can afford the Magazine, then without doubt her results will be disappointing. Low incomes do not necessarily mean low sales percentages, for there is a great desire for spirituality and culture among the low income groups of our Church. I consider the complete cooperation of the ward presidency of vital importance. In the Union meeting department we have dealt with such subjects as: Promotion of Good Reading, Personality in Your Work, Business-like Procedure, How to Approach People, Follow-up Work, The Need of the Magazine, Our Magazine and Its Editorial Policy, and Human Interest Back of the Magazine. The ward agents report on their work every month.
Prior to launching the Drive, I hold a Pep Rally at my home with the ward agents and ward presidents. At this time I give the agents their instructions: First, the specific instructions which come from the General Board; second, the additional instructions and suggestions necessary to make our: stake Drive successful. In addition to the free subscriptions given by the General Board, the stake also gives free subscriptions and a framed award. I don't know of any magic tricks whereby the Magazine may be sold. But I do know we must be enthusiastic and energetic; we must do our work for the joy we find in it. The Magazine has no tongue but our tongues, no hands but our hands, no feet but our feet; so it is our calling to promote its circulation. 332 MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SELLING