[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Vivian R. Mc]

By Vivian R. McConkie OVE is a divine nutrient of human life and is the basis for all of our work. Jt motivates man toward the "bond of perfectness and peace". It strives for a fullness of life both here and hereafter. It stimulates thoughtful attention to the relationships of life. It is a native endowment of women, and expands heavenward as the subject grows in goodness. It encircles eternally those who do the will of the Father. It is manifested by the Son of God, through the Gospel. The atonement and the Holy Ghost evidence the extent to which it will reach to save us. It is inclusive of many qualities and is the mortar that holds the world together. It is a plant that matures beautifully or withers according to the cultivator of it. Let us surrender our personal pleasures and our ambitions in earnest endeavor to develop it. If so, then all things will work together for good.
Love is expressed by words and deeds.
True home culture can not exist without it. Its signs and tokens feed human affections. It is kind thoughts manifest in action; it perpetuates sentiment, considerations, and chivalry.
When unexpressed it deteriorates.
When expressed it refreshes parched places, and its sunshine awakens life. It continues courtship after marriage and is the sole remedy that will heal breaches that lead to broken homes.
There is greater need for love than for modern comforts. If choice must be made between love and upto-date homes and automobiles, those who are touched with understanding will choose love and home and children and the standards of the Church as guide wires. If you would be loved be lovable, for love begets love.
Like other gifts it must be used faithfully; otherwise it can not be enlarged. It must be active to reach the heart of another.
Many hunger for it; yet, out of fear of encouraging vanity through lavish or unwise expressions of love many are allowed to starve for want of it. Malnutrition, where the element lacking is love, turns the heart to bitterness and the soul to rust. A wise word of recognition for a deed well done, or even for a failure, if the purpose was worthy, costs nothing and may greatly aid a worthy cause, as well as lighten a darkened soul.
Love is measured by what it gives and by its purposes and its objects. The greatest love of all is manifest in the gift of eternal life, which is God's gift to all who desire righteousness. Man's greatest manifestation of love is to help persons to prepare themselves to receive eternal life, and the greatest thing that can be done to that end is to teach the truth. Our love is measured exactly by how completely we do this. If we love the Lord we will teach the Gospel, but we can not teach it if we do not live it. If we do not teach the truth it is because the light of truth is not in us. "I love thy testimonies." (Psalms 119:119.) ANALYZING VALUES IN PRESENT ?DAY LIVING