[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Jennie B. Knight]

By Jennie B. Knight IT IS to Dr. George H.
Brimhall that I am indebted not only for the choice of my church but also for the outline for this talk. One day while in my teens I said to him, "Father, you think I am a Mormon, but I am not and do not intend to be one." His wise answer calmed my rebellious heart and gave me food for thought.
Putting his arm around me, he said: "If being a Mormon won't give my little girl more happiness than anything else in the world, I don't want her to be a Mormon."
That was all, and the subject was never referred to again. As. The years have passed and I have been privileged to attend a church school, to work in the various auxiliary organizations, and to be present at church gatherings, I have found some characteristics of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints that are not common to other churches. First: Our church is linked to heaven by divine authority. I believe that the same God who spoke to Moses in the burning bush and gave him commandments on Mount Sinai spoke to Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove. Second: My church glorifies intelligence and declares that willful ignorance is a bar to salvation; that "the glory of God is intelligence, or in other words light and truth." Third: It holds sacred the free agency of man, giving every individual a right to go to God for himself, "Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." (Doctrine and Covenants Section 93:1.) Fourth: My church provides for progress?eternal progress?through continuous revelation to those whose duty it is to administer church affairs. It accepts scientific discovery as part of God's truth and adopts that which is advantageous to the spreading of the Gospel or improvement of its members. It encourages its members to seek knowledge from all sources; to study and learn and become acquainted with all good books and with languages, tongues and people. Fifth: It recognizes recreation as pleasing to God. No ward is complete without its Primary festivals, Relief Society socials, Old Folks' gatherings and Priesthood outings. It has such confidence in youth that it has given the supervision of recreation to the young people. Sixth: We have our sacred temples where youth, maturity and old age meet in a common cause.
Couples are here married for time and eternity; others are working for their dead. Seventh: My church honors and respects women; it grants them every opportunity for development in spiritual, intellectual and social 334 MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lines.
This great Relief Society was organized by the Prophet. Its weekly programs are unsurpassed; its avenues for service are unlimited. I rejoice in my affiliation with it; it has helped me to better appreciate my blessings. I understand now that my father knew the Mormon church and its value. Now I know some of the outstanding characteristics of the church of my choice ? a place where faith in God will increase, where a love of Jesus Christ and His Gospel will grow, where a testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith is to be had, where there is freedom through right living, growth by self-effort, happiness through altruistic service.  THE GOSPEL?A PRACTICAL WAY OF LIFE