[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Rae B. Barker]

By Rae B. Barker
ONE-FOURTH of our time for membership building has slipped by. Are we one-fourth nearer our objective?
Whatever the result, it is the combined effort, successes and disappointments of all of us. The kind of report you want to hear, of course, would be one of progress. It is one of progress.
There are some gratifying highlights of splendid achievement.
Those ranking highest, in the order of their increase in numbers are: Western States Mission, Los Angeles, South Davis, Carbon, Blackfoot, Smithfield, Grant, Oakland, Pioneer, Tooele and Wells.
From the standpoint of percentage of increase, Los Angeles and Western States Mission more than satisfied their four-year quotas. South Davis and Oakland completed their three-year quotas. However, this is not a complete picture, for the report as a whole has its hills and valleys.
Those groups just mentioned reached the hill-tops; others are still climbing.
Some are resting on the plateaus; others have slipped down a little into the valleys?they have lost rather than gained. The membership increase for 1937 was two thousand. Our increase for 1938 was a little above five thousand, one thousand more being needed for this year's quota.
Emphasis placed on membership the past year has definitely accelerated our rate of growth.
Numbers never tell the whole story.
They fail to show the handicaps you struggled with in localities of varied conditions, or the splendid spirit with which you set out to do the work.
Your original ideas and ingenuity would indicate that many used the old but practical formula for success, "Do what you can, where you are, with what you have."
From various reports we glean the following pertinent observations: 1.
Stake presidents realized that the attitude of the head spreads through the entire body.
They accepted the membership assignment as an important one and entrusted the actual work to capable coordinators backed by the support of the stake board. 2. The most fruitful methods included personal contact work carried on through the cooperation of the visiting teachers and of the class leaders assisted by small special committees, all acting with the help and direction of the coordinators. 3. It was an incentive to excel when each ward coordinator knew that her individual results in the drive would be given in a suitable stake gathering. 4.
Many organizations recognized big possibilities for attracting new members through the new course, Education for Family Life. In one class there are thirty women who have never belonged to Relief Society, another has twenty, and there are many others with similar numbers. Its appeal particularly to young parents has met with most favorable response.
Perhaps to some stakes that have made very little increase in membership, this may suggest a new source for increase.
Five thousand sisters have affiliated with us for the first time this year.
Will we keep them with us? The Prophet Joseph Smith gave us a helpful clue when he said to the Nauvoo Relief Society this, in effect, if you want to lead people into new ways, take them by the hand and watch over them in tenderness.
Further he said, "When any person manifests the least kindness and love to me, oh what a power it has over my mind."
Perhaps we could stress a little more in our organizations bonding (cementing) through friendliness.
Another thought worthy of our reflection is that all we may say to publicize Relief Society must be backed by the best organization work we are capable of doing. We
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 325
may work diligently to attract women to our meetings, but the worthwhileness of the meeting itself will be the final answer as to whether we hold those whom we attract. Do you see membership building as an opportunity to share with others the priceless thing you enjoy?do you see it as Relief Society's way of spreading the blessings of the Gospel? If we have enjoyed choice privileges because of Relief Society experiences, perhaps we should remember the Savior's words to Peter: "When thou art converted strengthen thy brother." We give our love to the five thousand new members of 1938 and extend our hands to yet other thousands during the coming year. The address "Builders In Action" by Bessie Redding will appear in a later issue.
Social Welfare Department Counselor Amy B. Lyman, Chairman
FAMILY CONSERVATION AN AIM OF THE CHURCH WELFARE DEPARTMENT Clyde C. Edmonds, General Welfare Committee
I HOPE I have a proper conception of what was expected when the subject, Family Conservation an Aim of the Church Welfare Program was assigned to me. I like to think of the Welfare Program in terms of the Lord helping those who help themselves. Sometimes I wonder whether people have lost the spirit of the faithful and a willingness to do, particularly when things stack up against them and they become discouraged. It would be a fine thing if all people had the attitude that it is all right to ask for blessings, provided they are also willing to work for these blessings. I sincerely believe we should approach our problems from the point of view that the Lord will help those who are willing to help themselves. That is another way of saying, "Charity begins at home," and is the angle from which I would like to discuss the problem. Have the necessary adjustments been made in homes where misfortune may have fallen? Have family members squared themselves to their problems? Have they taken the atti-
326 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tude that adjustments must be made, or are they assuming that the world owes them a living? The sheriff told me that not so long ago he went into a certain section of the state to repossess an automobile.
When he approached the home, he was absolutely dumbfounded. It was a two-room house, and there were five or six children. All was confusion in the home.
Mattresses were strewn on the floor of one room, where all of the family slept; they were living in the other room. Yet, here was a man driving a Pierce-Arrow automobile. The sheriff said, "I must ask you why you bought such an expensive automobile." The man pointed across the fields and said, "Over there is my neighbor who has a fine automobile. My children are just as good as his and are entitled to enjoy just as fine things; during the time we had the automobile we enjoyed it." I think these people failed to recognize that in order to achieve their purposes they should have adjusted themselves to their circumstances and tried to make the condition within the home better instead of putting all they had in an automobile. I like the thought of cooperation within the family, a division of responsibility, so that everyone senses the fact that he has definite work to do, and that the harmony of the home depends upon his doing it. I believe one way out of family difficulties is through cooperation.
When we discuss our problems and make them family problems, we will be able to bring about better adjustments. I think the problem of many of us is just the lack of good old thrift. When I think of what my mother did as a widow on a very meager income, I am truly ashamed that I have not achieved more. My plea is to make thrift the theme song of rehabilitation. I like the idea of a family budget.
Plenty of our people do not know what we mean by a budget. It is determining how we are going to let our money be spent, and what we intend to achieve through the budget; and once we live by it, we will be surprised how well things work out. Our Church leaders have always told us to live within our means in order that we shall not be caught in a very unfavorable position. I like the idea of trying to catch a vision of the real values, the genuine values, the things that mean most to us in the final analysis. Our ideals are the things that are really worth while in life. Let us implant them in our lives and in the lives of our children and help them to appreciate the fine things that mean so much in making a rich life. I think about this a great deal when speaking about living within our means. I have two very fine friends.
Both of these men at the present time are earning about the same amount of money. In one home you find system, order, convenience, with things in a reasonable state of repair. The four children are well dressed, neat and clean. The father and mother are doing their duty and measuring up to the requirements made of them in the ward.
Altogether you find a very pleasing, happy environment. In the other friend's home exactly the opposite condition exists. The front door-yard reveals things as they are throughout?a poorly governed family and poor management within the home. The husband works hard and earns a reasonably adequate income, but there is poor organization somewhere?a lack of cooperation; something is wrong.
These two homes have almost identical incomes, but the families are different types.
There is a job to do with the one family?they should be taught home management and the value of a budget. I WONDER if there is not a general shifting of pride in the human family. In the past a great deal of time and thought was given to our homes and surroundings. We enjoyed having our friends come to see us so that they might also enjoy our very comfortable and pleasant, though often humble, surroundings. Has pride shifted from the home and its surroundings to the automobile! It would be a good thing if the shift could be turned partially back till the home and families find real pride and satisfaction in beautiful surroundings?a garden?let us even be thrifty enough to say a vegetable garden. We do not see these as often as we used to, and that is one of the things we should consider in a return to thrift. As I travel over this country, I come back to Utah chagrined over conditions I have seen in our communities as compared with what I have seen in other states.
Have we failed to realize the need for a cheerful and pleasing environment? As you drive home, check up, and
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 327
you will find far more unpainted than painted homes in the large communities. Look at the fences along the highway and see if you can take pride in the surroundings. When you do find a beautifully kept place, it is like an oasis in a desert. What is the matter? Have we lost pride in our homes? Have our standards of living allowed us to sink to such a level that we do not see what is all around us? Have we become accustomed to run-down conditions in the midst of which we live? I have never been able to understand why a fence is allowed to fall down. Keeping things in repair takes a few hours, of course, but the satisfaction that comes from the improved appearance more than pays for the time spent. I cannot help but wonder if children brought up in an untidy home, growing up in careless surroundings, do not later reflect this carelessness. I urge that we devise ways and means of improving our homes, so that our children may have greater pride in them and a desire to bring their friends to the home instead of going away from it. One of the cardinal points in the Welfare Program of the Church is the raising of the standards of living. I believe we ought to keep that uppermost in our minds and influence our neighbors to make Utah communities, by which the Mormon people are judged, a little more cheerful, bright and attractive. If we can get this message over to our people I am sure we will have achieved our purpose. The addresses "What Relief Society Has Contributed To Family Welfare" by Amy W. Evans and "Problems of Modern Family Life" by Caroline M. Hendricks will appear in a later issue.