[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Leda T. Jensen]

By Leda T. Jensen All of us were anxious to come to this world, created for our mortal probation.
What are we doing each 'day with the life we came here to live? We all desire happiness, that inward peace and security that is the result of righteous living.
What each individual does, what decisions he makes, what path he follows depends upon his sense of values. The most important aim of education is the evolution of a personal scheme of values. Our value concepts condition our appreciations and satisfactions.
They determine our distant goals and our present decisions. As we learn to include in our daily living more of the esthetic, more of the ethical, and more of the spiritual values we hold highest, life takes on greater meaning and joy; it becomes more abundant.
What has happened to us and our children biologically is a thing of the past. The environmental factors are immediately around us and in them are the possibilities for modification, adjustment and growth. Our social environment is a most intricate and complex one. The individual is being bombarded on every side by literally thousands of social influences, all of which are shaping the individual's ideas, attitudes, motives, and conduct. In the midst of the existing confusion, how is one to determine which values are necessary for peace and happiness?
Where are we to turn for a guide, a pattern? Is public opinion a safe guide? Are the theories and philosophies of men infallible?
Does the praise or ridicule of our friends and associates influence us in the standards we set?
Sometimes it seems we know not which way to turn for inspiration.
There is one sure source of right, one unerring pattern to which we may turn in spite of the complexity of modern living. Our Savior, Jesus Christ, has pointed out the way in the Gospel of the Master, given directly by Him or through his prophets to us.
What about honesty, what about virtue, what about the Sabbath Day, what about using our leisure time, what about dealing fairly and justly with all of God's children?
What the Savior has said about the matter should be the final tribunal.
What would my Heavenly Father have me do should be our constant question. As Relief Society women, are our standards of living on the high level they should be? Are we assuming the great responsibility that rests upon us as mothers in Israel?
Because of the confusion in the world about them children are probably more in need of the continuity and security that the home alone can give than they have ever been.
After we have set our own house in order, we should strive constantly by precept and by consistent example to raise the morals of the neighborhood and the community in which we live.
Then our lives will be truly happy, for we shall have that inward peace which comes from our Heavenly Father. If we honestly strive to follow His example, we shall be blessed to properly analyze values in presentday living and to live by those standards we know to be right. General Session?Afternoon