[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Donna D. Sorensen]

By Donna D. Sorensen F to every woman in the Church was put this question: "What do you desire most for your son or daughter?" the answer would come ringingly back from every true Latter-day Saint mother, "I would want my child to have, most of all, a testimony of the Gospel." Why a testimony?
Because the Lord has said, "He that seeketh me early shall find me and shall not be forsaken."
Because the strength of this Church lies in the individual testimonies of its members.
Because to possess a firm, strong testimony acts as a way of life and points the direction as truly as a radio beam to the airplane.
Because a testimony is the strongest shield one can have against "the fiery darts of the adversary".
Through revelation in this dispensation Latter-day Saint parents have been told of the necessity of teaching their children the first principles of the Gospel, and so upon the women of Relief Society devolves this most important duty of the proper training and rearing of their children in the faith of the Gospel. The training of the human soul for advancement here and joy hereafter calls for the greatest possible powers of mind and heart. It is generally admitted that the first years of life are crucial in determining what the future of the child shall be spiritually as well as physically. The mother with a testimony herself in the divinity of Jesus Christ is given an authority and a certainty which she would otherwise lack. "To most of our young people the miracle of testimony is one of gradual 336 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE growth or development.
Unknown to them, the mother's lullabies, the bedtime prayers, the family devotion... Are all making them converts."
Teaching by example is especially important in the rearing of children. A mother should make it obvious that she is seriously interested in religious things and believes in them herself. To the Saints in this dispensation has come the command to teach their children to pray.
Secret and family prayers and a blessing on every meal we eat all help "in forming a loving acquaintance with the Father". We might well ask ourselves this question: "How is the Relief Society fitting our women to be better participants in this great work of building testimonies in their families?" In our testimony meetings women are given the privilege to partake of that same spirit that they desire to inculcate in their families. Then, too, hundreds of women are weekly giving knowledge which they have to their sisters and in the giving are growing more able to give to their families.
Many of our women are playing the part of the good Samaritan in their vicinities and doing good, and this, too, is one way to increase and grow in the knowledge of the truth. REPORT Eliza N. Salm, Oahu Stake Relief Society President EING surrounded by our Relief Society Singing Mothers, looking into your sweet, smiling faces, and with the feeling I have that my beloved people back home are praying for me, gives me courage to stand before you this morning. My dear sisters and friends, President Louise Y.
Robison and her co-workers, my Alo-haa nui loa! When Sister Robison came to visit our island, we greeted her with aloha; that means aloha from within our hearts, the old way of the Hawaiians when they greet their loved ones. My heart is filled with gratitude to my Father in Heaven for the privilege we have of coming to your beautiful land. The Saints from Hawaii?the land of sunshine, flowers, music and singing?extend their greetings and alo-ha nui to you all. Six of us, Relief Society mothers, left our homes and loved ones and traveled thousands of miles to come to your beautiful land to participate in this conference. 'Three members of our stake board are here with me and two Relief Society ward presidents, one a mother of sixteen children, of whom fifteen are living and three attending the University of California. The few moments I occupy I sincerely ask my Father in Heaven to help me that I may be able to say those things that will make you proud of what we are doing in our Stake of Oahu. On December 13, 1850, the first missionaries arrived in the Hawaiian Islands, George O.
Cannon and his companions. Twenty-five years later, on July 6, 1875, the first Relief Society was organized at Laie, on the Island of Oahu.
Laie is my birthplace, and it is where the Temple now stands?one of the most beautiful sites on the islands and one most frequently visited by tourists. Relief Societies ar? now organized on all the islands of the group. 'There were fifty-five branches under the leadership of the mission presidents.
Much was done. The Relief Society had charge of the care of the missionaries at this time. I want to tell you that your sons and daughters are Our sons and daughters, and we love them all. We saw that their clothes were laundered, fed the poor, and cared for the sick. The missionaries instructed the Hawaiian sisters in the ways of today?sewing, cooking and so forth. The Gospel has been preached by the sisters traveling for miles on foot, visiting the Saints scattered here and there. As time has gone on, the work has progressed.
Several hundred sisters are now within our fold and are doing much good. The art of handcraft has been part of our work?weaving mats, fans, hats, purses, cushions and other artistic pieces of the lauhala.
Crepe paper leis, imitating the tropical flowers, have been made; the tourists would not go home without them. We have also made layettes and quilts. When Sister Robison visited our island, we presented her with an Hawaiian quilt. The sale of handwork has been a means of raising money to build up. Our funds. It was during the leadership of President Castle H.
Murphy that changes were made on the Island of Oahu. August 4, 1931, the Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, MAY - 337
Societies on the Island of Oahu were placed under the direction of a district board. It was my privilege and opportunity to serve on this board for two years. Later I became president of the district board. It was difficult for us to change from the accustomed way of doing things. Later, in 1935, President Heber J.
Grant came to Hawaii, and it was then that the Island of Oahu became a Stake of Zion?the only one in the group of islands. 'The officers of the district board were appointed the Oahu Stake Relief Society Board.
From then on the responsibility was ours. We realized the load was heavy. We were inexperienced for this high position, not having had much education, but Heavenly Father has been very kind, and we have been led through His guidance. FE have been carrying out instructions from our General Board and have tried to equip ourselves to the best of our ability, although we have come upon a lot of difficulties, especially in the Literary work. 'The Hawaiian sisters have not had much education; most of them have only gone to school up to the fourth or fifth grades. We speak the Hawaiian and English languages in our meetings, trying to interpret to the best of our ability, so as not to lose anything which is outlined for us. The Hawaiian race have their own way of preserving their legends. So far they have not had books printed, but they have been taught from father to son, from generation to generation.
While the mission Relief Societies 338 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ? took care of all charity work, the bishop of each individual ward now has charge of that work. We carry out instructions whenever any emergency comes up. We have the bishop's sanction before we carry out any charity work. The money paid out for charitable purposes comes out of fast offerings. The Relief Society, therefore, does not raise money as it did in the years past, but is allowed to raise money only in the month of March, all the wards and branches joining together and supporting the stake board in one big affair. A week before we left our islands, the Relief Society stake board gave a concert, dance, and bazaar to raise funds for our Relief Societies. 'There were over eight hundred cooperating in this great affair, which was held in connection with our Anniversary on the 17th of March. We are raising money for our contribution to the erection of our proposed tabernacle. We have had this privilege for the past eight years. On October 29 the Saints of Hawail prepared a luau. I am sure those who have been on a mission to the Islands know what that means. We fed eight thousand people. We served 4,000 pounds of pork, 4,000 pounds of poi?that is the main food of the people of Hawaii, 3,000 pounds of sweet potatoes, 1,500 chickens, 1,000 pounds of luau, 2,000 pounds of fish, 2,000 pounds of moss (sea weed), 5,000 coconuts, 500 boxes of starch ? corn starch to make the Hawaiian pudding, 100 pounds of sugar, 20 tins of kilola, 240 cakes, 100 pounds of ice used for cold drinks. We served from 12 0'clock noon to 8 p.m. Twenty-five men prepared the imu, and fresh pork was served at each sitting. Twenty-five men served poi.
There were 500 waiters, go for each sitting.
Altogether there were 1,500 workers. I was in charge of the cakes, and of the leis. The Hawaiian sisters just love to make leis with their own hands, and we greet our missionaries with leis; but you greeted us with beautiful corsages when we arrived in your land. We can now see improvement in our work, and the interest and support has been wonderful. We are trying to support our General Board in the Membership Campaign, and we will do our best. It is our aim to support the