[Vol26 | May 1939 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: General Conference]
Cassity at the piano. The organ prelude and postlude by Lily Priestly, as well as the artistic musical contributions in the departments by Jessie E.
Smith and Mrs. Dilworth Walker, added to the enjoyment of the meetings. Officers ITleeting GREETINGS President Louise Y. Robison IT IS with sincere pleasure that we meet you dear sisters in conference.
There is always an element of wonder in the realization that you are here?such busy women?such splendid mothers. I realize that you have planned and worked extra long hours that your dear ones will be well cared for in your absence.
Your presence indicates, too, that you have prayed as well as planned?prayed for help that you 314 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE might be of greater service to our Father's children. The program arranged for this conference has been prepared with the earnest prayer that each number will be directed by the Holy Spirit, and that you will receive the special help and inspiration which you desire. You sisters are so faithful and loyal. I sometimes wonder if the "earthen vessels" spoken of by Paul, have not become almost transparent porcelain, scarcely retarding the light of the heavenly "treasure" which God, the Father, caused to shine in your hearts. It is certain that a person who uses this treasure for the benefit of others, who has a desire to vitalize the message she carries, must become more and more the personification of the truths she would interpret. We are delighted in having six of our sisters from far away, sunny Oahu Stake with us. We welcome them and hope they will feel the love and friendship which Relief Society members have for each other.
There is strength in the feeling that all over the world our Relief Society women are interested in our Organization and are praying for its success. "It is always prayertime somewhere, And across the awakening continents From shore to shore, somewhere, Our prayers are rising evermore." OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison Child Health Day HE General Board solicits your cooperation in the May Day Child Health Day program. Relief Society has been asked by the State Board of Health to be tre sponsible for the program in Utah this year. We have appointed Sister Marcia K.
Howells to represent us as State Chairman. In other states you may be invited to participate. The slogan, ""The health of the child is the power of the nation," is certainly a challenge to all Relief Society women to aid this cause. Relief Society Funds We are very happy to tell you that the Presiding Bishopric has made a definite ruling on Relief Society funds in reference to the Ward Budget. The Progress of the Church for February, 1939, makes clear that there is to be no change in our methed of collecting either charity funds Or annual dues, and that our Relief Society general, charity and wheat funds are not to be placed in the Budget. We request ward presidents not to hoard general or charity funds when there are legitimate needs for their use in the wards. By legitimate needs we mean such things as the health of pregnant women and the welfare of children.
Interested as we are in the missionary cause, Relief Society funds are not to be used to make gifts to missionaries if a child in the ward needs milk or medical attention to help it meet life with a stronger body and would be deprived of this aid if funds were used for other purposes. Auxiliary Enlistment Census Stake Presidents!
Have the auxiljary organizations in your wards taken the general Auxiliary Enlistment Census which we asked to have made last fall? The forms were sent to you at quite an expense, thinking this census would be most helpful in the Membership Drive. The Sunday School Superintendent was placed in charge of this under the direction of the bishops with all the auxiliaries assisting. Two of the organizations were to have the original and the other two the duplicate copies of the census in order to SCENE FROM RECEPTION FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MISSION AND STAKE OFFICERS check their membership. We trust that stakes have completed this survey and used the information obtained. Preparation For Missions An appeal has come to us to urge mothers to teach their sons how to take care of themselves before they go on missions. So few know how to make their own beds, to wash their clothes or do the simplest cooking.
These things are necessary to the health of the missionary.
Mothers are proud of their sons or daughters when called on missions, and they 316 - MAY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can make that mission more pleasant and the missionary more useful if they do their part in preparing these fine young people for this great experience. Although Relief Society has urged Scriptural study in the home, it is surprising how many missionaries are handicapped because they know so little about the Scriptures. One mother thought she was helping her son when she made the plea that he be not called upon to pray, saying, "It would scare him to death for he has never prayed."
Surely this was not a Relief Society mother! Issuing Checks We are asking again that checks issued by Relief Society be countersigned; that the President and Secretary know the amount of funds the Organization has in the bank, and that both of these sisters sign every check.
