[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Special Feature | Title: To Be | Author: Martineau]
["To Be or Not to Be" or Cats in the Home Mary C. Martineau]

She would simply ignore it. 'This was no time to indulge herself, she felt. She had planned one pleasant surprise after another for every minute of Jed's parents' seven-day visit. She forced herself to begin washing the breakfast dishes, keeping a wary eye on Kimmy through the nursery door adjoining the kitchen. Perhaps she was just unduly excited over meeting Jed's parents for the first time. Still, she reasoned, excitement didn't give you pains in the back. Y the time she had finished the dishes Margaret felt that her legs wouldn't hold her another minute. She sank down in the old-fashioned rocking chair—the same chair her mother had sat in to rock her as a baby. She closed her eves and longed to hear Jed's firm step outside the kitchen door. Just to have him near, she felt, would give her Strength to get up and get started again. Kimmy was beginning to get fretful, and once she started to rise to go to him, then reconsidered. If she had some contagious disease she wouldn't want to expose him to it. By this time Kimmy was really making himself heard, and she thought she couldn't bear not to take him up another minute when the screen door to the kitchen opened and Jed came in. "Hi, he greeted, amd then stopped short. "Margaret, what on earth is the matter with you? You look ill," he said. "I feel fine," she replied, trying to put strength and cheer into her voice and failing. Jed gave her a sharp look. "Say, youre not letting Mother's and Dad's visit bother you, are you?" he asked, with sudden inspiration. "No, of course not," she denied. "You'd better get Kimmy, he thinks we ve deserted him," she added with an effort. He went into the nursery and came back with Kimmy, who quieted down as soon as his father picked him up. Jed strapped him in his high chair and gave him a zwieback, then walked over and picked Margaret up bodily. "Tl just tuck you in bed and go over and get Mrs. Jackson," he said. "You're not fooling me one bit. My girl never gives up like this unless she's ill." Margaret sank gratefully onto the comfortable bed. 'There was no strength left in her to protest that she should change from her neat gingham house dress into a gown or robe. "Mrs. Jackson isn't home. Her sister is ill," she managed to tell Jed. "We'll get along," he answered cheerfully. Kimmy had begun to cry again as soon as his parents left the kitchen, and his shrieks had reached a new crescendo, but even these CONTENTMENT IS A LOVELY THING seemed far away and remote. Margaret pulled the sheet up over her. It felt cool and in the few muinutes she slept. When she awoke again she could hear Jed in the kitchen. It always amazed her how anyone as large as he was could be so deft and efficient with his hands. He would have made a wonderful surgeon she found herself thinking. After a few moments he appeared in the doorway to the bedroom. "I have to meet the train in an hour," Jed told her. "Kimmy is strapped in his high chair. Keep an eye on him while I go down to the barn and get the station wagon. I'll just be a minute." He was gone before she could answertr. No sound reached her ears until the screen door burst open and Jed rushed in. "Can't get the motor started," he said excitedly. "'I'd better call the Hawkins' place and see if I can borrow Jim's cat. Morning and won't be using it." Being a realist, Margaret knew that it was high time the station wagon did a little balking. It had been the good old standby of almost the entire community for the past three years, ever since Jed had bought it secondhand when they first were married. It had carried loads of people on picnics, Jed's entire troop of Boy Scouts on numerous outings, and had served as a delivery truck whenever any of the neighbors had run short of supplies that were needed in a hurry. HESE thoughts all flashed " through her mind as she caught snatches of Jed's telephone converHe's plowing this - 657 sation with Liza Hawkins. "Fine, Liza, I'll be right over to pick it up you sure Jim won't need it? No, thanks, Margaret will be all right... I won't be gone long." A second later Jed appeared in the doorway. "It's all arranged," he said, his usual happy smile back on his face. "Jim won't be using his car today, and don't worry, honey, while I'm gone. I won't be more than forty-five minutes at the most. Dad will be able to fix you up in a hurry when he gets here. 'There's no need to bring Dr. Miller out. Dad hasn't always been a_ brain surgeon, you know. He started out the hard way as a general practitioner. It was just a few years ago that he began specializing." Margaret hadn't known this, and thought it strange that Jed hadn't mentioned it before. She must ask him how his father came to change from general practice to brain surgery, but there wasn't time now to do anything but take care of the present crisis. "Try to get some sleep while Kimmy and I are gone, honey, and don't worry," he called back cheerfully, and the last she could see of them was Kimmy struggling to turn around and wave his chubby pink fist at her, excitement and the sheer joy of living manifested by the rapid kicking of his short legs. The window was open and the sweet scent of the first lilacs floated in as a slight breeze fanned the snowy white ruffled curtains that had been painstakingly ironed and hung up only yesterday. As Margaret watched the gently moving 658 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1954 curtains her eyes grew weary, and she finally fell into a fitful sleep. Sometime later when Margaret awakened, she walked over to the large window which gave a clear view of the road for miles. Margaret scanned it for an approaching car, but there was none. A south wind had sprung up, and that meant rain. Her eyes turned to the great red barn, and she saw that Jed had left the doors wide open in his hurry to get away. 'They were swinging in the wind. She should go down and close them, instead she hurried, still shivering, for the warmth of the bed. The bright, hot day was gone, and it was gloomy and chill. Just as she pulled the covers that she kept folded on the end of the bed up over her, she heard the first clap of thunder, and the rain spattering down hard on the roof. Jed had taken Kimmy away in his sunsuit, and hadn't taken a sweater along. He would be simply frozen. The storm was at its height when she finally heard the Hawkins' car stop at the kitchen door. It wouldn't enter Jed's head to bring his parents in through the front door. Margaret dreaded having to meet them in her present state. She felt like pulling the coverlet up over her head, as she had done when she was a little girl and wanted to get away from anything unpleasant or terrifying. F (To be continued ) End of Summer Nell B. Brenchley Before me lies the garden, desolate; On every side are withered leaf and vine, And yellowed cornstalks, ghosts of summer days, Stir noisily as autumn winds entwine. Across my lawn a coverlet of leaves Is spread, and ash and scarlet maple blend, Where trees flaunt naked limbs, quite unashamed, And bare their souls to all at summer's end. The flowers, brown and withered, row on row, Remind of frost through autumn's golden haze; Only a rose blooms on, despite chill air, A monument to lovely summer days. * The birds whose summer symphonies I loved Have long since flown away, I know not where! The willows lone and silent now, until The raucous cry of magpie rends the air. A sadness fills my heart at summer's end, Nor do I mourn that the days grow colder, Autumn I love—but this do I Jament, Time too swiftly wanes... And I grow older. Grant M. Haist SYLVAN LAKE, NEAR EAST ENTRANCE TO YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK, WYOMING She Rainbo W &nding Bertha A. Kleinman If the rainbow spanned a primsic arch, When I was young and bolder, It spans a golden super-arch Today when I am older, If skies were blue when I was young With cloud-dust intertwining, Today their blue with gold is spun And clouds have turned their lining. If friends were allies in my youth To joy-dreams of the morrow, Today in tested ranks of truth ° They steady me in sorrow. And so I cull from out the past. A fuller, deeper blending, And in the things that live and last, I find my rainbow's ending. Page 659 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1954 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN or ALL NATIONS" FEMININE HINTS: The house wife has been employed all the summer long with her arduous but satisfying labor of preparing fruit for the winter months and now with what a pleasure she points to her shelves filled with bottles of fresh berries and fruits, her jars of rich preserves, her glasses of clear, delicious jelly —Selected THE POLITICAL QUESTION: The great fundamental principles of government... Should be carefully studied and those who anticipate having the franchise should arm themselves well with this knowledge and not come ignorantly into possession of the boon.... There will be many important and serious questions to be discussed that concern women as well as men... Education, public charities... Sanitation and public health, moral and other great reforms. —KFditorial AUTUMNAL DREAMS Through the rustling woods I wander Through the jewels of the year, From the yellow uplands calling, Seeking her that still is dear; She is near me in the autumn, She, the beautiful, is near. —Bayard Taylor ARTISTS: Rosa Bonheur is no longer the only woman artist who is entitled to wear upon her breast the Cross of the Legion of Honor, for a like distinction has just been bestowed upon Mme. Virginia Demont Breton, the daughter of Jules Breton and the wife of Adrian Demont, both of them masters of the brush. Mme. Demont-Breton has for the last dozen years been a successful exhibitor, in the Paris Salon, of marine pictures. —Selected REPORT ON A VISIT TO THE CANADIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES: My dear sisters, I greet all most heartily, consider all hands shaken. 'The sisters meetings in Alberta and Mountain View were well attended, the saints are filled with the spirit of the Lord, I never attended better meetings in my life. At the Fair a straw hat was given to my daughter, and with the exception of a little piece of velvet, it was entirely home made; they have made many articles of clothing.... If I had means I would send for a knitting machine and teach a class of girls to knit. I feel the Lord is well pleased with the labors of his handmaids. —Zina D. H. Young MUSIC: A man once said that nature had given less to music than any of the arts. I wonder if he ever wandered through a forest in the autumn time when the leaves whispered their goodbyes as they swung and swayed through the mellow air in their falling to the ground; if he ever heard the birds as they bade farewell to their summer nests and flocking together by the hundreds gave their glorious final chorus before migrating to the south —Editonal Page 660 PRESIDENT BELLE S. SPAFFORD of the general board of Relief Society recently received a special citation from the American Heritage Foundation for her outstanding performance as co-chairman for the State of Utah in the 1954 Crusade for Freedom in support of Radio Free Europe. ENEVIEVE DE GALARDTERRAUBE, French Air Force nurse, the "Angel of Dien Bien Phu," who, under siege, refused to be evacuated and leave the wounded without care, received a royal welcome in New York and Wash-. Ington in July. She is said to be the first citizen of France to come to the United States as the guest of Congress since the Marquis of Lafayette was so honored in 1824. In a dank underground I shelter which served as a_ hospital, she tended the wounded for fifty-nine days, the only woman in the fortress. She received the United States' Medal of Freedom, and later, a citation from the Medical Association in Chicago. She was received at the White House by President and Mrs. Eisenhower. N August, seventeen-year-old Lor- -~ na Young, daughter of Mr. And Mrs.