[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science: The Constitution of the United S'tates, Articles II and III]
The  International  Council  of 
Women  Conference  at 
Helsinki,  Finland,  June  1954 
Piesident  Belle  S.  Spafford 
IT  
is  with  pleasure  that  I  bring  women  of  all  races,  many  nations, 
to   Relief    Society   members   a  creeds,  and  classes,  in  the  belief  that 
report   of    the   recent   Interna-  the  good  of  humanity  and  the  well- 
tional  Council  of  Women  Confer-  being  of  the  home  and  the  family 
ence  with  a  brief  mention  of  my  will  be  advanced  by  a  greater  unity 
other  very  delightful  experiences  in  of  thought,  purpose,  and  action  on 
Europe.  the  part  of  organized  women. 
Finland,   far  to  the  north,  with  The  Council  aims  to  present  fac- 
its    limitless    forests,    blue    inland  tual  data  in  its  efforts  to  focus  the 
lakes,  long,  bright  summer  nights,  attention   of  organized  women   on 
and  modest,  hospitable  people,  is  an  matters  related  to  family  and  com- 
interesting    land.       Helsinki,     Fm-  munity   life,   and   to   encourage  ef- 
land's  beautiful  capital  city,  with  a  forts  to  correct  unfavorable  condi- 
population  of  400,000  people,  has  tions,  as  well  as  to  chart  courses  that 
preserved  much  of  its  old  character,  will  promote  the  well-being  of  the 
yet  amazes  one  with  much  that  is  home  and  society.     Resolutions  de- 
new   and   modern.     Its   fruit,   fish,  signed    to   aid    in    the   accomplish- 
flower,     and     vegetable      markets,  ment  of  the  aims  of  the  Council  are 
swarming  with  people,  capture  the  drawn  up  and  voted   upon  at  the 
interest  of  the  visitor  who  may  also  triennial    meetings.     However,    no 
shop    in    its    modern    department  member  National  Council  can  be 
stores,  visit  its  new  and  up-to-date  committed,    in    any    case,    to    any 
educational  and  social  institutions,  cause   or    project   by    International 
and  be  housed  in  as  modern  and  Council  action,  except  by  its  own 
beautiful  a  hotel  as  is  to  be  found  vote. 
in  any  country.     This  unique  and  Each       participating       National 
attractive  city  was  the  setting  for  Council  is  allowed  a  number  of  vot- 
the  International  Council  of  Wom-  ing  delegates  according  to  the  size 
en    Conference,    June    7-18,    1954,  of  its  membership.     The  National