[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 28 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I enjoy every issue of The Relief Society Magazine from the beautiful cover pictures to the very last page. The articles, editorials, stories, poetry, and the lesson work are all so worthwhile and of such high quality.
—Mrs. John Gardner
Sacramento, California

I wish to express the gratitude and the satisfaction I obtain from reading The Relief Society Magazine. It has always been in our home. The Magazine has been an inspiration to us in this foreign land, and the only contact with the Church until two missionaries arrived here in Managua November 21, 1953 to open a Latter-day Saint mission in Nicaragua. We were again blessed with another contact with our Church when our beloved President David O. And Sister McKay paused for a brief thirty minutes in Managua on their extensive journey to visit the missions in faraway places.
—Allie R. Barlow
c/o United States Embassy
Managua, Nicaragua

May we tell how much we enjoy the Magazine? It is the only contact which some of our ladies have with the Church. Thank you for the splendid work you do.
—Merza Norlund
President, Sonoma Relief Society
Sonoma, California

I was eighty-one August 27th, not as active since I came from the hospital, but still enjoying writing and phoning to those who are ill or homebound to cheer them. I have worked in our Church organizations ever since I. Was old enough —a labor of love. For nine years I was on the Cache Stake Relief Society board and during that time I compiled a history of the ward Relief Society from its organization and also a history of the Cache Stake Relief Society from its organization. Success to the wonderful Magazine. It is doing so much good for our women.
—Lettie B. H. Rich
Logan, Utah

I love the Magazine, but I don't take it now, as conditions and circumstances have changed and I live with my daughters and they are subscribers to it. My eyes are not too good, but I guess one cannot always be young. After one reaches eighty and over, one doesn't do quite so well.
—Sarah Carlisle
Ogden, Utah

I don't know if children are to write to you, but I'm trying to surprise my mother.... My mother made a poem for my sister to recite. I have decided to send it to you to put in our Magazine, which Mother enjoys very much.

My body is a tabernacle
Our Father gave to me.
He asks me to keep it shiny clean
And neat as it can be
He promises me a place with him
If I'll be real good and kind,
And if Pll spread the gospel
So others the truth will find.

I hope all of us children will grow up to be good and kind.... My mother's name is Mrs. Paul Treiber, or Linnea Treiber.
Thank you sincerely,
—RMarilyn Treiber
Marshalltown, Iowa

At present I am summering in Yorkshire, but the weather is more like January than July Our Relief Society is engaged in its summer program and plans a salad supper as a prelude to the return of regular Relief Society meetings. Thanks again for publishing my poem. It still seems a little unreal to me.
—Marjorie G. Foote
Bellshill Lanarkshire, Scotland

I like the Magazine very much and want to compliment the whole staff for the fine balance with which it is made up each month, the inspiring pictures, the poems, stories, and all the departments, also the workmanship ls beyond compare and makes a pleasing combination.
—RMrs. Arlene Morris
Rocky Mount, North Carolina