[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  October  i,  and  October  15,  1954 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Woaien  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
FEMININE  HINTS:  The  house  wife  has  been  employed  all  the  summer  long 
with  her  arduous  but  satisfying  labor  of  preparing  fruit  for  the  winter  months  and  now 
with  what  a  pleasure  she  points  to  her  shelves  filled  with  bottles  of  fresh  berries  and 
fruits,  her  jars  of  rich  preserves,  Ijer  glasses  of  clear,  delicious  jelly  .... 
— Selected 
THE  POLITICAL  QUESTION:  The  great  fundamental  principles  of  govern- 
ment .  .  .  should  be  carefully  studied  and  those  who  anticipate  having  the  franchise 
should  arm  themselves  well  with  this  knowledge  and  not  come  ignorantly  into  posses- 
sion of  the  boon  ....  There  will  be  many  important  and  serious  questions  to  be  dis- 
cussed that  concern  women  as  well  as  men  .  .  .  education,  public  charities  .  .  .  sanitation 
and  public  health,  moral  and  other  great  reforms. — Editorial 
AUTUMNAL  DREAMS 
Through  the  rustling  woods  I  wander 
Through  the  jewels  of  the  year. 
From  the  yellow  uplands  calling. 
Seeking  her  that  still  is  dear; 
She  is  near  me  in  the  autumn, 
She,  the  beautiful,  is  near. 
— Bayard  Taylor 
ARTISTS:  Rosa  Bonheur  is  no  longer  the  only  woman  artist  who  is  entitled  to 
wear  upon  her  breast  the  Cross  of  the  Legion  of  Honor,  for  a  like  distinction  has  just 
been  bestowed  upon  Mme.  Virginia  Demont  Breton,  the  daughter  of  Jules  Breton  and 
the  wife  of  Adrian  Demont,  both  of  them  masters  of  the  brush.  Mme.  Demont-Breton 
has  for  the  last  dozen  years  been  a  successful  exhibitor,  in  the  Paris  Salon,  of  marine 
pictures. 
— Selected 
REPORT  ON  A  VISIT  TO  THE  CANADIAN  RELIEF  SOCIETIES:  My  dear 
sisters,  I  greet  all  most  heartily,  consider  all  hands  shaken.  The  sisters  meetings  in 
Alberta  and  Mountain  View  were  well  attended,  the  saints  are  filled  with  the  spirit  of 
the  Lord,  I  nc\'er  attended  better  meetings  in  my  life  ....  At  the  Fair  a  straw  hat  was 
given  to  my  daughter,  and  with  the  exception  of  a  little  piece  of  velvet,  it  was  entirely 
home  made;  they  have  made  many  articles  of  clothing  ....  If  I  had  means  I  would 
send  for  a  knitting  machine  and  teach  a  class  of  girls  to  knit.  I  feel  the  Lord  is  well 
pleased  with  the  labors  of  his  handmaids. 
— Zina  D.  H.  Young 
MUSIC:  A  man  once  said  that  nature  had  given  less  to  music  than  any  of  the 
arts.  I  \\'onder  if  he  ever  wandered  through  a  forest  in  the  autumn  time  when  the 
leaves  whispered  their  goodbyes  as  they  swung  and  swayed  through  the  mellow  air  in 
their  falling  to  the  ground;  if  he  ever  heard  the  birds  as  they  bade  farewell  to  their 
summer  nests  and  flocking  together  by  the  hundreds  gave  their  glorious  final  chorus 
before  migrating  to  the  south  .... 
— Editorial 
Page  660