[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Have an | Author: Pardue]
The purpose is to unite the letters in the first column with the proper ones in the second column to form a name of a variety of apple. Page 680 HAVE AN APPLE PARTY 681 ANSWERS: 1. Pip stein 1. Pippin 2. Bald ton 2. Baldwin 3. Fame sap 3. Fameuse 4. Graven win 4. Gravenstein 5. New pin 5. Newton 6. Pleas flower 6. Pleasant 7. Wine thy 7. Winesap 8. Stay ant 8. Stayman 9. Weal man 9. Wealthy 10. Bell use 10. Bellflower The player re-pairing all of the apples first, wins the game. HALF AN APPLE For each person, make a paper apple and write a guest's name on each one. Put the apples in a paper sack on a table. Provide two pairs of scissors. Make up two teams and line them up six feet away from the table. At the word go, a player from each team races to find the apple bearing his or her own name, and then cuts it in half with the scissors. Only one apple at a time may be removed from the bag. If it isn't the nght one, it goes back and the player tries again. Halved apples also go back into the bag. When a player finds and cuts his apple, he races back to touch the next player for his turn. The team to finish first, wins. APPLE TAG Mark off a playing area. This might be the rug on the floor, or a wide circle of chairs. Players stay inside this zone. Give one player an apple. While music is played, the player with the apple tries to get rid of it. Any person tagged with the apple must take it immediately. When the music stops suddenly, the player holding the apple drops out of the game. The apple is handed to anyone to get started again. The player staying in the game the longest, wins APPLE TEARING Give everyone a large piece of blank paper. The idea is to tear the paper into an apple. The finished fruits are initialed and passed around for judging. After deciding on the best or funniest, the apples can be autographed to serve as party souvenirs. There is no e: ier way to serve refreshments than buffet style. Cover the table with a runner of light green crepe paper. For a centerpiece, what could be prettier than a bowl of polished apples? Apple pie slices and cider are then served buffet style.