[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Special Feature | Title: The | Author: Lewis]
[The Young and the Old Caroline C. Lewis]

-—- Night Sylvia Probst Young Night comes unnoticed on a city street With lights aglow before the dusk comes down, But on a quiet road where crickets sing Beneath the star-lamps—in a little town 'Night -comes on silver feet across the sky To hear a mother croon a lullaby. The Young and the Old Carolyn C. Lewis T was one of those spring mornings that seem to have been all scrubbed and shined _ by some special servant during the night and set before the world with the words, "Here is a perfect day without a flaw." That's what it seemed to me—a perfect day—warm, bright, beautiful. And I was young and thrilled with being alive. Only yesterday my mother—a sentimentalist, if you've ever met one—had said to me, "I wish I were your age again." Half-seriously I had answered, "I am glad I'm not your age.' She had merely said, "Well," and smiled, but her eyes hadn't looked at me exactly. 'They had had worried shadows in them for the last few weeks because Grandpa was in the hospital quite ill. Of course, I kept telling her, he was old. She couldn't expect him to live forever, but she only told me I didn't understand and that that didn't make any difference in how she felt about him. Today, Saturday, Grandma and my aunt had come to dinner and then they were going to the hospital. June, my cousin, who is just about my age, was there, too, and she was all excited because she had a date that afternoon and I was to go along with her date's friend, Jack. I had met him and he seemed nice, but nothing to get excited about. When June and I had finished the dishes and she was flushed from hurrying and excitement, she said, Page 682 "T can hardly wait. A convertible." "And not too many days around here are," I replied, adding, "but I wish Grandpa was better. I haven't even been down to see him yet." Just then mother came in, "And he's been asking for you. I thought you might drop in today for a little while—both of you." "But, Aunt Kate," June protested, "we've got a date; we can see him next week." "He's quite sick..."" Mother said, her words hanging in the air like the limp dish towel hanging upon the rack. 'Then she added, "Well, we'll get ready. If you can stop in, do." "We will," I said. But the convertible was there before we knew it, and we got in, waving goodbye to the folks, who all looked pretty solemn. Like thousands of others, we headed our car for one of the canyons where leaves were green and the air cool across the mountains rising above our heads. Jack was a lot more fun than I remembered him. And a lot better looking, especially when he smiled, which he did most of the time, except once when he said to me, "You seem to have something on your mind?" "Well..." I hesitated, "my grandfather is quite sick—in the hospital. Mother wanted me to go see him." "Maybe you'd rather do that," he said. It's the day for THE YOUNG AND THE OLD I couldn't be sure how he meant it, but I assured him that, of course, I wouldn't. TILL, after awhile, the subject came up again. It was almost as though he were teasing me to see if I'd rather stay with him or go back to town. His eyes looked at me rather strangely, and somehow I knew that I could like him very, very much. We stopped in a small restaurant on the way to the canyon to have a sandwich and a malt. While we were eating, Jack put nickels in the juke box and played the latest hit tunes. "How about dancing with me?" Jack questioned. "Sounds like fun,'"" was my reply. While dancing with him, I realized that not only could I like him very much, but I already did. And, somehow, I got the feeling that he liked me a little bit, too. Maybe it was the way he was holding me while dancing, or maybe it was my imagination. When we reached a park we walked around for awhile. Then we spied some empty swings and, I guess still being little girls and boys at heart, we decided to swing for awhile.... I was going up in the air with the wind taking my breath, when [I saw an old man walking near the stream. His shoulders were a little stooped, like Grandpa's, and he held his hands in his pockets just the same way, with only the thumbs showing. My breath caught in my throat again—only this time with a difference. I thought of his waiting for us to come—hoping. I slowed the swing down, dragging my foot, not 683 even caring if I scuffed my new sandals. "Tve got to go back," I said in one short breath. "Why?" June asked. "I want to see Grandpa—today." "So do I—but not this minute." I knew she hadn't been as close to him as I had. We'd lived with him when I was born and for several years after. Jack said, "If she wants to go, let's take her. It won't be any fun for her here, even if she stays." Nor for him, I thought. Still, it didn't matter at the moment that I had to spoil something that might have been so nice.