[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Special Feature | Title: A Pair | Author: Powell]
[A Pair of Pants for Benjy Pansye H. Powell]
er unusual  behavior  could  hear. 
"Maybe  we  could  borrow  a  pair 
of  pants  from  one  of  the  other  stu- 
dents who  won't  be  graduating,"  I 
ventured.  "Couldn't  we  have  one 
of  the  other  teachers  inquire  in  his 
classes  for  a  student  who  would  be 
willing  to  lend  a  pair  of  pants  just 
for  the  graduation  exercises?" 
"Sounds  likely,"  he  smiled  again. 
"I'll  have  John  Dimmick  ask  in  his 
mathematics  classes  of  eighth  grad-

678 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1954 
ers.  No  one  need  know  who's  go- 
ing to  wear  the  pants." 
That  was  the  way  it  stood  when 
the  bell  rang  for  the  first  period  to 
be  over.  I  watched  Benjy  walk  out 
of  my  class  and  saw  how  proud  he 
was  of  the  white  shirt  he  was  wear- 
ing. He  gave  me  a  shy  grin  as  he 
went  past.  That,  I  remembered, 
was  the  first  time  he  had  ever 
seemed  to  note  my  existence  as  a 
person. 
The  morning  wore  on.  The  ex- 
ercises were  to  be  at  two  o'clock  in 
the  afternoon.  At  twelve  o'clock, 
between  classes,  John  Dimmick 
came  to  report  to  me  that  he  hadn't 
had  any  luck  in  finding  a  suitable 
pair  of  pants  for  Benjy.  He  had 
asked  in  two  classes.  "I  wouldn't 
worry  any  more  about  it,"  he  com- 
forted; ''you've  done  your  best." 
But  I  wouldn't  give  up.  Suddenly 
I  thought  of  something.  Gym  class/ 
Boys'  gym  class!  That  was  our  last 
hope!  There  would  be  a  class  at 
one  o'clock.  Surely  in  a  big  bunch 
of  boys— even  if  they  were  seventh 
graders— there  would  be  someone 
who  would  let  Benjy  wear  his  pants 
for  an  hour. 
I  asked  John  to  watch  my  class 
for  a  few  minutes,  since  he  didn't 
have  a  class  at  this  hour,  and  dashed 
over  to  the  boys'  gym.  Mr.  Hales 
was,  of  course,  surprised  to  see  me 
coming  in,  all  out  of  breath.  The 
boys  were  lined  up  in  their  street 
clothes  for  roll  call,  the  last  one  of 
the  year.  I  glanced  hastily  down  the 
rows— some  of  the  boys  looked  as 
tall  as  Benjy  and  certainly  several 
were  as  skinny. 
I  told  Mr.  Hales  my  errand  and 
he  turned  to  the  boys: 
''Attention,  fellows!  Miss  Carter 
has  something  to  say  to  you." 
'T^HEY  were  quiet,  looking  at  me. 
I  hoped  I'd  be  able  to  find  at 
least  one  pair  of  possible  pants  for 
Benjy.  Desperation  made  me  elo- 
quent, I  guess,  for  they  listened 
without  a  snicker.  But  they  did  not 
offer  to  lend  anything.  I  stood  wait- 
ing, and  the  silence  became  embar- 
rassing. Finally,  a  voice  spoke  up 
from  the  rear  row. 
"Would  mine  do?" 
It  was  Henry  Bishop  who  spoke. 
Henry  was  the  tallest  boy  and  the 
skinniest  one  in  the  room  and  was 
shunned  by  the  other  boys  because 
he  was  considered  a  sissy. 
"Suppose  we  give  you  boys  a 
chance  to  see,"  Mr.  Hales  suggested. 
Benjy  was  sent  for,  and  he  and 
Henry  and  Mr.  Hales  retired  to  the 
boys'  dressing  rooms.  There  the 
exchange  was  made.  Henry's  clean, 
dark  slacks  gave  Benjy  a  dressed-up 
air  that  fitted  with  the  dignity  of 
the  part  he  was  to  take  during  the 
afternoon.  On  the  other  hand, 
Benjy's  shabby  levis  were  a  very 
tight  fit  for  Henry,  who  retreated  to 
the  janitor's  room  and  spent  the 
next  three  hours  in  solitary  com- 
munion with  a  magazine  most  of 
the  time,  while  Benjy  was  happily 
receiving  his  promotion  from  junior 
high. 
Later,  the  janitor,  who  shared 
Henry's  seclusion  at  various  times 
during  the  three  hours,  repeated 
Henry's  comment  on  the  occasion: 
"Well,"  he  said,  grinning  broadly, 
"if  I  don't  make  it  out  of  here,  I 
can  always  say  that  my  pants  gradu- 
ated, whether  I  do  or  not." 
Meanwhile,  up  in  the  auditorium 
the  graduation  exercises  were  pro- 
ceeding. When  the  time  came  for 
the  graduates  to  march  across  the

A  PAIR  OF  PANTS  FOR  BENJY 
679 
auditorium  stage  in  single  file  to  re- 
ceive   their    diplomas,    I    watched 
anxiously  for  Benjy.  Then  I 
him  standing  at  the  side  of 
stage,  waiting  until  the  girl 
ahead  of  him  had  taken  the 
scribed  four  steps  before  he  should 
start.  He  straightened  his  collar, 
hitched  up  his  pants  at  the  belt,  and 
he  stepped  out  proudly. 
saw 
the 
just 
pre- 
It  was  then  I  made  up  my  mind 
to  stay  with  schoolteaching.  Never 
again  would  I  say  that  schoolteach- 
ers work  without  adequate  compen- 
sation when  they  do  extra  things  to 
help  their  students,  for  when  I  saw 
Benjy  Martin  step  across  that  stage 
with  his  head  high  and  his  white 
shirt  gleaming,  I  was  paid,  you  bet 
I  was  paid! 
Kyirtist  at  Seventy-C/i 
Mae  Olmstead  Crowley,  Ontario,  California,  Finds  Artistic  Expression  in  Oil 
Painting,  China  Painting,  Ceramics,  and  Needlework 
MRS.  Crowley,  wife  of  a  lawyer  and  mother  of  nine  children,  grandmother  of  thirty- 
six,  and  great-grandmother  of  sixteen,  painted  a  picture  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple 
on  her  fiftieth  wedding  anniversary  three  years  ago.  She  has  painted  many  other  sub- 
jects, including  mountain  vistas  in  summer  and  some  striking  winter  landscapes. 
In  addition  to  her  principal  hobby  of  oil  painting,  Mrs.  Crowley  has  painted  five 
hundred  pieces  of  china,  has  completed  367  pieces  of  porcelain  and  ceramics,  and  has 
knitted,  crocheted,  and  embroidered  hundreds  of  articles.  She  has  also  made  many 
wedding  dresses  and  other  articles  requiring  the  deft  touch  of  an  expert  seamstress.  Mrs. 
Crowley  also  has  musical  talent  and  raises  flowers. 
Active  in  Relief  Society  and  other  Church  activities,  Mrs.  Crowley  is  a  member  of 
the  Ontario  Ward  in  Mt.  Rubidoux  Stake.

(jiave  an  Jxpple  iPart^ 
Ida  M.  Pardue 
JF  you  like  to  give  parties  that  are  different  —  October  offers  a  fine  opportunity.     Oc- 
tober 23d  to  November  1st  is  Apple  Week — so  why  not  have  an  Apple  Party? 
Cut  invitations  in  the  form  of  an  apple,  play  apple  games,  and  wind  up  a  pleasant 
time  with  apple  pie  and  cool  cider  served  buffet  style. 
Use  yellow,  hght  green,  or  red  construction  paper  for  the  invitations. 
This  information  goes  across  the  front  of  each  one: 
Lots  of  apples — real  and  paper  cutouts,  make  effective  decorations.  Tie  a  real 
apple  underneath  a  light  fixture — or  to  a  floor  lamp  chain.  Edge  a  mantle  with  a  row 
of  apples.  Substitute  paper  apples  for  curtain  pulls.  A  chain  of  paper  apples  can 
stretch  across  a  wall.  One  or  two  bowls  of  apples  can  be  placed  on  an  end  table  or 
radio.  Just  one  thing,  be  sure  you  know  exactly  how  many  apples — paper  and  other- 
wise, are  in  view.  This  is  necessary,  for  the  first  game,  a  mixer,  is  called  Harvest.  Play- 
ers are  to  count  the  exact  number  of  apples  in  the  room.  The  player  calling  out  the 
correct  number  first  wins  an  apple  corer. 
For  an  Apple  KoW  game,  trace  three  times  around  a  saucer,  with  a  dark  crayon,  on 
a  single  square  of  newspaper.  The  circles  may  be  anywhere  you  choose.  Number  them 
1,  5,  and  10  respectively.  To  play,  place  the  paper  on  the  floor.  Players  take  turns 
rolling  an  apple  onto  the  paper  from  behind  a  yardstick  whose  end  is  three  inches  from 
the  edge  of  the  paper.  Each  player  rolls  three  times,  scoring  the  number  written  in 
any  circle  in  which  the  apple  comes  to  rest.  The  player  scoring  the  most  points  wins 
the  game. 
* 
You  won't  need  any  knives  for  AppJe  Pairing — only  pencils  and  copies  of  the  fol- 
lowing lists.  The  purpose  is  to  unite  the  letters  in  the  first  column  with  the  proper 
ones  in  the  second  column  to  form  a  name  of  a  variety  of  apple. 
Page  680
