[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Brunt]
[POETRY "I will Lift up Mine Eyes" FRontispiece Christie Lund Coles 641 End of Summer Nell B. Brenchley 658 The Rainbow Ending Bertha A. Kleinman 659 Farm Shopping Iris W. Schow 664 I Must Choose _ Mabel Law Atkinson 674 Indications Ing Smith 675 Night Sylvia Probst Young 681 Last Call to Vacation Maryhale Woolsey 684 Farewell to the Autumn Leaves Lettie B. H. Rich 690 Bounty Dorothy O. Rea 695 Fulfillment Catherine E. Berry 703 Visitor Genevieve Groen 711 Love Grows Fonder Ethel Jacobson 711 Night of Magic Eunice J. Miles 712 Work in Print Fanny G. Brunt]
editorials,  stories,  poetry,  and  the  lesson 
work  are  all  so  worthwhile  and  of  such 
high  quality. 
— Mrs.  John  Gardner 
Sacramento,  California 
I  wish  to  express  the  gratitude  and  the 
satisfaction  I  obtain  from  reading  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  It  has  always 
been  in  our  home.  The  Magazine  has 
been  an  inspiration  to  us  in  this  foreign 
land,  and  the  only  contact  with  the 
Church  until  two  missionaries  arrived 
here  in  Managua  November  21,  1953  to 
open  a  Latter-day  Saint  mission  in  Nica- 
ragua. We  were  again  blessed  with  an- 
other contact  with  our  Church  when  our 
beloved  President  David  O.  and  Sistei 
McKay  paused  for  a  brief  thirty  minutes 
in  Managua  on  their  extensive  journey  to 
visit  the  missions  in  faraway  places. 
— Allie  R.  Barlow 
c/o  United  States  Embassy 
Managua,  Nicaragua 
May  we  tell  how  much  we  enjoy  the 
Magazine?  It  is  the  only  contact  which 
some  of  our  ladies  have  with  the  Church. 
Thank  you  for  the  splendid  work  you  do. 
— Merza  Norlund 
President,  Sonoma  Relief  Society 
Sonoma,  California 
I  was  eighty-one  August  27th,  not  as 
active  since  I  came  from  the  hospital,  but 
still  enjoying  writing  and  phoning  to 
those  who  are  ill  or  homebound  to  cheer 
them.  I  have  worked  in  our  Church 
organizations  ever  since  I  was  old  enough 
— a  labor  of  love.  For  nine  years  I  was  on 
the  Cache  Stake  Relief  Society  board  and 
during  that  time  I  compiled  a  history  of 
the  ward  Rehef  Society  from  its  organ- 
ization and  also  a  history  of  the  Cache 
Stake  Relief  Society  from  its  organization. 
Success  to  the  wonderful  Magazine.  It  is 
doing  so  much  good  for  our  women. 
— Lettie  B.   II.  Rich 
Logan,  Utah 
I  love  the  Magazine,  but  I  don't  take 
it  now,  as  conditions  and  circumstances 
have  changed  and  I  live  with  my  daugh- 
ters and  they  are  subscribers  to  it  ...  . 
My  eyes  are  not  too  good,  but  I  guess 
one  cannot  always  be  young.  After  one 
reaches  eighty  and  over,  one  doesn't  do 
quite  so  well. 
— Sarah  Carlisle 
Ogden,  Utah 
I  don't  know  if  children  are  to  write  to 
you,  but  I'm  trying  to  surprise  my  moth- 
er ...  .  My  mother  made  a  poem  for 
my  sister  to  recite  ....  I  have  decided 
to  send  it  to  you  to  put  in  our  Magazine, 
which  Mother  enjoys  very  much. 
My  body  is  a  tabernacle 
Our  Father  gave  to  me. 
He  asks  me  to  keep  it  shiny  clean 
And  neat  as  it  can  be  ...  . 
He  promises  me  a  place  with  him 
If  I'll  be  real  good  and  kind, 
And  if  I'll  spread  the  gospel 
So  others  the  truth  will  find. 
I  hope  all  of  us  children  will  grow  up 
to  be  good  and  kind  ....  My  mother's 
name    is    Mrs.    Paul    Treiber,    or    Linnea 
Treiber.    Thank  you  sincerely, 
— Marilyn  Treiber 
Marshalltown,  Iowa 
At  present  I  am  summering  in  York- 
shire, but  the  weather  is  more  like  Janu- 
ary than  July  ....  Our  Relief  Societ) 
is  engaged  in  its  summer  program  and 
plans  a  salad  supper  as  a  prelude  to  the 
return  of  regular  Relief  Society  meetings. 
Thanks  again  for  publishing  my  poem.  It 
still  seems  a  little  unreal  to  me. 
— Marjorie  G.  Foote 
Bellshill 
Lanarkshire,  Scotland 
I  like  the  Magazine  very  much  and 
want  to  compliment  the  whole  staff  for 
the  fine  balance  with  which  it  is  made  up 
each  month,  the  inspiring  pictures,  the 
poems,  stories,  and  all  the  departments, 
also  the  workmanship  is  beyond  compare 
and  makes  a  pleasing  combination. 
— Mrs.  Arlene  Morris 
Rocky  Mount,  North  Carohna 
Page  642