[Vol41 | October 1954 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: Emily Bronte Briant S. Jacobs]
JLiterature — Literature  of  England 
Lesson   44— Emily   Bronte   (1818-1848) 
Elder  Brian t  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:     The  Literatiue  oi  England,  U,  Woods,  Watt,  Anderson,  pp.  716-720) 
For  Tuesday,  January  18,  1955 
•  Objective:  To  gain  an  insight  into  the  inner  life  of  Emily  Bronte  and  to  appreci- 
ate her  suffering,  courage,  and  power, 
God    will    not    make    himself    manifest    to    cowards. 
— Ralph  Waldo  Emerson 
No  coward  soul  is  mine. 
No  trembler  in  the  world's  storm-troubled  sphere; 
I  see  Heaven's  glories  shine. 
And   faith   shines   equal,   arming   me  from   fear. 
— Emily  Bronte  (text,  page  720) 
The  Book  of  Psalms  asks  of  God,  fearless  soul  who  raises  more  ques- 
''What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mind-  tions  about  life  than  she  answers, 
ful  of  him?"  With  profit  we  might  and  provokes  us  to  do  likewise? 
well  address  to  ourselves— to  each  Few  would  fail  to  agree  that  Em- 
other  —  the  same  piercing  query,  ily  Bronte  is  one  of  the  two  greatest 
Who  will  meet  the  question  just  women  poets  in  English  literature, 
after  having  met  Emily  Bronte,  this  and  her  Wutheiing  Heights  is  con-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
699 
ceded  to  be  one  of  the  most  power- 
ful novels  of  all  time.  Her  onlv 
life  is  the  inner  one,  a  life  deep 
and  entangled  and  dominant  within 
her.  Most  of  us  have  such  an  inner 
life,  but  few  of  us  can  define  our- 
selves for  what  we  are,  and  express 
our  inner  findings  in  communicable 
and  artistic  form. 
Once  drinking  deep  of  that 
divinest  anguish, 
How  could  I  seek  the  empty 
world  again? 
(text,  page  718,  lines  31-32). 
So  ends  the  poem  ''Remem- 
brance/' in  which  she  states  truth 
so  innocently  and  purely  that  here, 
as  in  her  other  poems,  and  in  her 
novel,  her  truth  becomes  a  tie  com- 
mon to  all  mankind.  Yes,  indeed, 
her  outward  world  was  empty;  her 
physical  existence  was  the  most 
barren  and  monotonous  of  all  mod- 
ern writers  of  stature.  Yet  ironically 
it  was  in  this  grim,  gray  straitjacket 
of  sterile  isolation  that  her  human 
anguish  grew  during  her  twenty 
years  of  writing  to  such  power  and 
depth,  that  her  own  phrase  ''divine 
anguish"  may  be  fairly  applied. 
As  will  be  recalled  from  our  study
