HOUSEHOLD HINTS
	THERE is a true dignity in labor which 
the very indolent or those who are so nar-
row-minded as to think it disgraceful to
work cannot comprehend.
	Lady Montague sensibly remarks, "The
most minute details of household economy
become elegant and refined when they are
ennobled by sentiment; and they are truly 
ennobled when we do them either from a 
sense of duty to a parent, or love for a hus-
band." And another careful authoress has 
written, "The most beautiful domestic ar-
rangements are those which most resemble 
the fair face of a watch, while all the wheels
and springs are entirely out of sight, and
only known to exist by the regularity and
order with which their results are brought
about. This is the perfection of the art and
can only be attained by knowledge and 
adroitness, with a strong desire to promote
the peace and happiness of the domestic cir-
cle. The training of unskilled hands, the
planning, providing, presiding, directing,
shaping and adorning must all be done, and
much more, but a calm, quiet home should
ever be secured."
	A very important item in the programme 
of domestic affairs is "the training of un-
skilled hands." How often do mothers re-
mark to their little daughters, "you are so 
slow and awkward, I would rather do it
myself than wait for you to do it." This is
poor encouragement for a new scholar, and
will soon engender in the feelings of the
child the disposition to think "mother can
do it so much quicker and better than I
﻿that I would rather not try to do it.”
When Is the child to learn how to do her
work quickly and neatly where such a course
is pursued? A little girl’s unpracticed
hands never appear so awkward in learning
to work as do those of a woman; and the
love of industry cannot be inculcated in the
mind too early.
	MRS. N. W., writing to the “American
Agriculturist,” says, “Housekeepers will
find it a great convenience to have two wash
boilers on washing day, one to reheat the
suds in, and the other and larger one to con-
tain the boiled clothes. It is as handy as
plenty of flat-irons on ironing day.” Every
one who has tried it knows this to be the
case.
	THE SAME writer adds, “Never make
buckwheat cakes of buckwheat alone; make
one part of corn meal, two of wheat flour and
three parts of buckwheat. They are then
spongy instead of being flabby. And in ma-
king bread, always use potatoes or nice
corn meal. Scald the meal first before ad-
ding the flour, and then set in the usual
manner. Besides the improvement in the
bread, the flour barrel holds out much longer
and health Is promoted. Put about one part
of corn to three parts of flour when setting
the sponge.”
	TO REMOVE AN OFFENSIVE BREATH.—
From six to ten drops of the concentrated
solution of chloride of soda in a wine glass
full of pure spring water, taken immediately
after the ablutions of the morning are com-
pleted, will sweeten the breath by disinfect-
ing the stomach, which, far from being in-
jured, will be benefitted by the medicine.
If necessary this may be repeated at noon.
In some cases the odor from carious teeth is
combined with that of the stomach. If the
mouth is well rinsed with a teaspoonful of
the solution of the chloride in a tumbler of
water, the bad odor of the teeth will be re-
moved.
	CURE FOR ASTHMA.—E. D. Baker, for-
merly editor of the Snow Hill “Herald,”
published the statement that he was perma-
nently cured of asthma of many years’ stand-
ing by the use of equal parts pulverized salt-
petre and sugar burned in the room. A
friend of his, so badly afflicted that she was
obliged to rest in her chair at nights for
months at a time, was also permanently
cured by this simple remedy. As it will
cost but a trifle and can do no injury, he re-
commends those afflicted with the distres-
sing disease to try this remedy.
	TO CLEANSE THE HAIR.—Barbers use car-
bonate of potash, known as salts of tartar, in
water, to shampoo with. It is better to use
a tablespoonful or two of common spirits of
hartshorn, in a basin of water; then thor-
oughly wash the scalp and hair until they
are clean; then wash with clean water, wipe
clean and apply a little oil or pomade.
	SILVER CAKE.—One cup of sugar, half
cup of butter, one-fourth teaspoonful of soda
dissolved in half teacupful milk, whites of
five eggs, three-fourths teaspoonful cream
tartar mixed in two cups of flour. Yolks of
the eggs and the same ingredients make
gold cake. Season the silver cake with
peach and the gold with lemon.
	JAPANESE CEMENT OR RICE GLUE.—In-
timately mix the best powdered rice with a
little cold water; then gradually add boiling
water until a proper consistence is obtained,
being particularly careful to keep it well
stirred all the while; lastly, it must be
boiled for one minute in a clean saucepan or
earthen pipkin. This glue is beautifully
white and almost transparent, for which
reason it is well adapted for fancy paper
work; which requires a strong and colorless
cement.


