OUR POSITION.
		            —
	A woman’s journal has come to be viewed as
exclusively a medium through which woman’s
rights and woman’s privileges must be discus-


sed and strenuously advocated, in contradis-
tinction to the rights and privileges of men.
That is not our mission. We have no special
need to advocate woman suffrage in Utah, for
it is enjoyed by the women of this Territory.
We have no particular wrongs to contend
against, inflicted upon us by our husbands, fa-
thers, brothers, or the male portion of the com-
munity ; and no special claims to champion,
throwing down the gauntlet against all comers.
Yet there is ample work for us to do. There is
truth to be disseminated, errors to be combat-
ted, intelligence to be communicated, the right
to be vindicated, and misrepresentations to be
corrected. We do not propose to speak for a
few of the women of Utah who with disap-
pointed hopes or perverted minds may be dis-
posed to rail in bitterness against principles
honestly entertained by a whole community,
and against a people to whom all must accord
purity of intent and sincerity of purpose. We
aim to speak for the women of Utah at large,
numbered by the thousand, who in a spirit of
noble self-sacrifice have assisted to build up
this prosperous community, many of them hav-
ing borne severe privation and hardships in so
doing; and who, while thus engaged laying the
foundation of greatness for a growing common-
wealth, have been slandered in the most mal-
evolent manner. We are of the people of Utah,
and for them; we are of the women of Utah,
and proud to be so recognized; and our object
is to sustain truth, spread a knowledge of cor-
rect principles and labor to do good.
   We have no rivalry with any, no war to
wage, no contest to provoke; yet we will en-
deavor, at all times, to speak freely on every
topic of current interest, and on every subject
as it arises in which the women of Utah, and
the great sisterhood the world over, are spe-
cially interested.
		---
	STATEHOOD.
		-
     A peaceable, orderly, industrious community
for nearly a quarter of a century; prosperous
cities, towns and settlements built up over an
extent of country reaching some five hundred
miles north and south; education fostered and
manufactures encouraged; a basis of perma-
nent prosperity in a well developed agricultural
system, and vast mineral wealth being daily
unearthed; a Territory free from debt, and a
population of over a hundred thousand souls
able to take care of themselves: These are
some of the claims Utah presents when asking
State sovereignty. The women of Utah, who
have helped to develop this region, and to make
of it what it has been made from an arid waste,
believe that Utah should cease to exist and that
Deseret should be received into the family of
States. And though it is not probable that
anything in this direction will be done during
the brief remainder of the present session of
Congress, it is to be hoped that next session
tardy justice will be done to the hardy pioneers
of the Great Basin.


PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG'S seventy-sec-
ond birthday finds him enjoying excellent
health and spirits, just as nearly all other days
find him. He dines to-day with his youngest
brother, L. D. Young; a limited portion of his
own family, and Judge Lorenzo Sawyer and
lady, from California, being participants. A
friend pronounced him seventy-one years old,
but still, “Young, as ever.”


﻿A Yankee doctor has contrived to extract
from sausages a powerful tonic, which, he
says, contains the whole strength of the ori-
ginal bark. He calls it sulphate of canine.


