ABOUT WOMEN.
	A Buffalo girl—who must be very much
engaged—has had 2,000 of her photographs
printed.
	George Sand’s seventy-five novels have
brought her $10,000 each, exclusive of $80,-
000 received by her for her plays.
	Miss Collamer, of Vermont, owns twenty
thousand dollars’ worth of railroad stock,
and votes at the meetings.
	A Minnesota woman has invented a fan to
be attached to a sewing machine, and put in
motion by the same power.
	Woman has equal rights in Mechlenburg-
Schwerin. Last year 94 men and 33 women
were flogged, receiving 2,004 Lashes.
	The “Saturday Review” calls the fashion-
able “chignon” a lie, and reproaches the la-
dies with systematic deception in wearing
false hair.
	The London “Spectator” is strongly in
favor of a woman’s university in England,
on the ground that the judgment of educa-
ted women is needed on many of the most
important questions of the day.
	From Leipsic we hear of a new pianist
of the higher order. The new virtuoso is a
young Swedish lady of rare beauty and ac-
complishments.  Her name is Erika Lie,
and the most eminent musical critics com-
pare her to Clara Schumann.
	A woman at Danville, N. H., having been
notified by the highway surveyor to appear
and work out her tax of four cents, made
her appearance at the appointed time, armed
with a hoe, and toiled vigorously till her
tax was cancelled—about fifteen minutes.
	While their Brazilian majesties, when at
Naples, were paying a visit to the Azure
grotto, a man fell overboard and would have
perished had not the empress dived after
him, and at the peril of her own august life,
held him by the hair of the head until as-
sistance arrived.
	Mrs. Thomas Gurr, of Northville, Wayne
Co., Mich., forty years old, with a daughter
of fourteen years, and the occasional help of
two other members of the family, husked
over 1,500 bushels of corn during the past
Fall. Mrs. G., by actual count, husked for-
ty-one bushels in eight hours, and her daugh-
ter twenty-five bushels in the same time.
Worth noting! Had this occurred in Utah
what a fearful thing it would have been.
Fortunately it was in Michigan!
	About eighteen months since, the wife of
a rather prominent citizen of Wayne county,
named Voss, died and was buried without a
funeral sermon having been preached over
her remains. Voss married again, and last
week his second wife died, and on Sunday
she was buried from the Methodist church
of Centerville.  The pastor, whether by in-
struction or otherwise, seized the opportu-
nity to preach the funeral services of both
wives, and, with the dead body of the sec-
ond one lying before him, he spoke of the
first wife before referring to the other.
	A New York paper tells about a California
lady who may yet prove a successful rival
to Harriet Hosmer and Vinnie Ream—a
Mrs. Cosby, residing in Butte county.  Her
first venture in sculpturing was in playing
with her children, who were making mud
pies. Taking a lump of adobe she began to
model a head, and was surprised at her suc-
cess.  Then she took a piece of chalk aud
carved another figure with no chisel but a
pair of scissors.  She then bought a block of
marble from which she chiseled an ideal
figure and a portrait of a bust which are
pronounced wonderful figures.


