NEWS AND VIEWS.
	Women are now admitted to fifty Ameri-
can colleges.
	Rev. De Witt Talmage is pronounced a
success as a sensation preacher.
	Theodore Tilton says the best brains in
northern New York are wearing white hats.
They might wear chapeaux of a more objec-
tionable color.
	Daniel W. Voorhees in one day destroyed
the political record of a life-time, and that
was when he became henchman to a judge
with an eclesiastical mission.
	An Alabama editor writes “United State,”
and refuses to write “United States”—a
straw to show how Southern sentiment runs.
What a state he must be in?
	The season of scattering intellectual filth
has set in over the country. It occurs quad-
rennially in the United States, commencing
a few months before the Presidential elec-
tion.
	Dr. Newman failed to become a Bishop at
the Methodist General Conference, and Dr.
Newman mourns this second great defeat,
He has remembrances of Salt Lake in con-
nection with the previous one.
	Great outcry is raised against the much
marrying of the Latter-day Saints. The
tendency of the age is to disregard marriage
altogether, but there seems no indication of
a desire to have the race die out.
	The “Alabama” muddle like “confusion
worse confounded" becomes worse mixed
the more it is stirred. It stretches itself
over the path of time, and “like a wounded
snake drags its slow length along.” The
country has become heartily sick of it.
	Some Eastern journals head their Utah
news with “Deseret.” With keen appreci-
ation of the coming and inevitable, they ac-
cept the mellifluous name chosen for the
region wrested by that industry which
“the honey bee” represents, from the barren
wilds of nature.
	George Francis Train sends us a bundle of
Train Ligues. The compliment is appre-
ciated, but the act is like sweetness wasted.
We can vote, but not for “the next Presi-
dent of America.” Utah has not become
Deseret yet, nor can it participate in Presi-
dent making.
	The last week of May, 1872, will be me-
morable in American annals as the first time
since the first ordinance of secession was
passed in the South, that both houses of
Congress had their full list of members.
Statesmanship can retain a complete Federal
legislature, but the article has grown some-
what scarce.
	To pardon the worst class of criminals on
condition that they emigrate to the United
States, is growing in favor with European
monarchies. Germany and Greece so far
have done the largest business in this line,
the latest batch of villains thus disposed of
being the Marathon murderers from Greece.
Orders have been forwarded by President
Grant to New Orleans, to which port it is
understood they have been sent, to prevent
their landing. They should be captured,
ironed, returned to Athens with Uncle Sam-
uel’s compliments, and a bill for direct and
“consequential” damages presented.
	News comes from France that trailing
dresses for street wear are going out of fash-
ion. So many absurd and ridiculous fashions
come from Paris that the wonder is thinking
American women do not, with honest repub-
lican spirit, reject them entirely. This lat-
ter one, however, is so sensible that its im-
mediate adoption will be an evidence of good
sense wisely directed.
	The anti-Mormon bill of Judge Bingham
seems to have fared no better in the judi-
ciary committee of the House of Represent-
atives than the one to which Mr. Voorhees
stood sponsor. It is gratifying to think that
a majority of that committee yet respect the
antiquated and once revered instrument
still occasionally referred to as the Constitu-
tion.
	Rev. James Freeman Clark claims “that if
it is an advantage to vote, women ought to
have it; if a disadvantage men ought not to be
obliged to bear it alone.” Speaking from ex-
perience we feel safe in affirming that the Rev.
gentleman is right, and we hope for a time
when this immunity may be universally enjoy-
ed by our pure-minded and light-loving sisters.
We don’t presume that those belonging to the
opposite class care anything about it.
	Mrs. Carrie F. Young, editor of the “Pa-
cific Journal of Health,” has been lecturing
in Idaho on Temperance and Woman Suf-
frage. The editor of the “Idaho World”
was not present, but did not regret his ab-
sence. He says, “We feel a most decided
repugnance to the exhibition of a woman
upon the rostrum, advocating such degrad-
ing theories as ‘woman suffrage’ and other
cognate subjects.” He omits to state
whether “Temperance” is one of the “de-
grading theories” to which he refers.
	Force is ever the argument of a bad
cause. The principles which cannot be over-
come except by the exercise of physical
power, present a front that arrests the atten-
tion of thinking minds. Where argument
fails and force is employed to overcome an
opponent, the power of the principles to
which opposition is made is admitted. Will
those who urge repressive legislation against
the people of Utah think of it? Witness
the Voorhees bill as an illustration.
	A notable event, as a result of the late
terrible Franco-German war, is the opening
of the German University in Strasbourg,
which takes place June 1st—to-day. That
famous city on the Rhine, after a siege me-
morable in the annals of warfare, passed
into the hands of the Germans, and now
they take the surest means to permanently
consolidate their power, by establishing
there one of those seats of learning for which
Germany has become enviably famous.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, it is said, de-
clared before the Cincinnati Convention met,
that if it gave her cause “the cold shoul-
der,” she would go to Philadelphia and
pledge the ballots of the women of America
to U. S. Grant. As the women of America
are yet without ballots, and as it is very
questionable, if they had them, whether they
would authorize any single individual to
pledge them for any candidate, the supposi-
tion is fair that Miss Anthony possesses too
much good sense to have made any such
declaration.
	Rev. Mr. Peirce, a Methodist clergyman
who has made Salt Lake his headquarters
for some time, in lecturing east proposed
the extinction of polygamy by the introduc-
tion here of vast quantities of expensive
millinery goods, and by inducing “Gentile”
women to dress in gorgeous style that “Mor-
mon” women might imitate them and run
up such heavy dry goods bills that it would
be impossible for a man to support more
than one wife, if even one. Mr. Peirce, no
doubt, preaches modesty and humility occa-
sionally, by way of variety; now he recom-
mends the encouragement of pride, vanity
and extravagance to accomplish his “Chris-
tian” designs. The course he advises has
been largely followed in many places, has
tenanted brothels, aided to fill prisons, bro-
ken up families, hurled women of reputa-
tion and position down to degradation and
infamy, and has met heavy denunciations
from inspired men whom Mr. Peirce profes-
ses to revere. He would steal the livery of
evil to serve religion in. There is not much
of this reverend gentleman, and what little
there is must be either very silly or very
wicked.
	The editor of “The Present Age” has
been to a church and heard an orthodox ser-
mon, in which the preacher took occasion to
say that all religious “isms,” including Mo-
hammedanism, Mormonism and Spiritual-
ism, rested their claims for being true “upon
miracles.” The “Age” is a Spiritualist and 
denies that his “ism” basis its claims to be 
true upon miracles. Latter-day Saints deny
that Mormonism basis any claim for cre-
dence in it on miracles; the reverse is the
truth. The “Age” defines a miracle to be
"the setting aside for the time being of a
natural law to meet an unexpected emer-
gency.” Had he said a miracle was the
bringing into operation of certain natural
laws not generally understood or compre-
hended, he would have been nearer correct.
When somebody can tell how a natural law
may be or can be set aside, except by the
operation of some other natural law, his defi-
nition, which is the generally received one,
may be entitled to more consideration. We
imagine the working of the overland tele- 
graph is as great a miracle to the Cheyenne
Indians as any recorded miracle that the 
“Age” or the orthodox minister can quote.
	Mrs. Laura De Force Gordon attended the
Cincinnati Convention and claimed a seat as
a delegate from California. Her claim was
treated with hisses and laughter. She took
a position in front of the stand and endeav-
ored to speak, but her voice was drowned
by a tumultuous discord. Her persistence
in seeking to address an assemblage that
treated her claim in such a manner was un-
dignified; while the action of the Conven-
tion in receiving her with hisses and uproar-
ious laughter, was disgraceful. The Liberal
Republicans assembled in Cincinnati for a
general work of purification and reform, evi-
dently stood greatly in need of general re-
form themselves, in the matter of manners
as well as in politics. Mrs. Gordon was as
much entitled to a seat in that Convention
as Carl Schurz himself, for we have yet to
learn that the call for it specified that
“male” Republicans only were admissable.
	A new periodical in London is called
“The Ladies.”


