F.R. SOCIETY REPORTS.
	Mrs. A M. Frodsham, Secretary of the F. R.
Society of Ogden, favors us with a report of a
meeting held at that place April 25, 1872, in
which she states that the general spirit of the
Society is to do all they can for the good of the
poor, and whatever may be required at their
hands; and as the meeting was largely attend-
ed there seems to be no lack of interest taken
for the promotion of good by the Society of sis-
ters in that city.
	We acknowledge a handsome subscription
list to the EXPONENT through Mrs. Frodsham.
	A LENGTHY and interesting report of a
meeting of the Fourth Ward Female Relief
Society of Provo, held May 20th, has reached
us. The occasion was the fourth anniver-
sary of the organization of the Society, and
the report shows that the ladies there are
awake to the duties and privileges pertain-
ing to such organizations. President A. O.
Smoot and Bishop Follett were present, and
participated in the proceedings, which were
opened by prayer, and singing by Mrs. War-
ner and daughters. A suitable repast was
prepared for the occasion, of which the aged
and indigent were especially invited to par-
take, and goodly portions were conveyed by
the committee to families belonging to the


Ward who were in destitute circumstances;
their motto being, “The poor to be filled
first, the treasury next.”
	Appropriate remarks were made, songs
sung, toasts and sentiments given, and an
excellent time was passed by all present.
	Particular reference is made to the sing-
ing of a little Indian girl, seven years old,
whose father had threatened her life and
whose mother, by stratagem, got her away
and gave her to Mrs. I. Snow; her song be-
ing “I am nobody’s darling,” sung in so
touching a manner as to bring tears to many
a mother’s eyes.
	The Treasurer’s report showed that since
the organization of the Society, $881.46 had
been received by donation, of which $486.60
had been given to the poor, leaving in the
treasury $389.75.
	Very good for the Society, of which sister
R. A. Holden is President, and sister L. W.
Kimball Secretary


