SPLINTERS.
			—
Miss Mary P. Townsend has given $60,-
000 to the Home for aged and indigent fe-
males, the income of which is to be expen-
ded in the support of single women......
Mrs. Mary C. Rea is the first woman who
has made a pre-emption purchase of 160
acres of the public land in Montana......The
Pope has declined money tendered him by
the Italian Government.....It is reported that
Jay Gould has sold his interest in the Grand
opera house to Mrs. Fisk, who is now the
sole owner of the building......The Fall River
“News” states that four appointments of
ladies to important postoffices with $4,000
salaries, have been made during the present
administration......Mrs. Augusta A. Miller
is a compositor at South Bend, Indiana. She
learned to set type in her father’s office in
Angola, when only thirteen years old, and a
proof taken the other day of 9,000 cms,
shows but two typographical errors......Mrs.
M. A. Fay, of Boston, resigned her position
as one of the advisory board to the trustees
of the Industrial school for girls at Lancas-
ter, and the wife of ex-Gov. Claflin was ap-
pointed in her place......The Portland “Daily
Advertiser” says that Mrs. Jane P. Thurs-
ton has entered into correspondence with
Earl Granville, probably in reference to the
Alabama claims......The strikes of the vari-
ous trades in New York have every appear-
ance of being successful......A Democratic
State convention is called to meet at Ban-
gor, Me., June 18.......After a shooting af-
fray in New York, a few evenings ago, Paul
Lowe, son of ex-Gov. Lowe, of Maryland,
was arrested, charged with shooting three
men......The Coreans, fearing another visit
from the U. S. navy have intimated their
consent to treat with our Government
through the intermediacy of the Chinese
Prime Minister, Prince Kung, at Pekin......
The Wheeler and Wilson Sewing Machine
company have withdrawn their application
before Congress for an extension of the Wil-
son patent......Rev. Dr. Huston is on trial at
Baltimore, for alleged improper conduct
with some young ladies of his congregation
......In Des Moines, Iowa, and Hancock and
Adams counties, Ill., a late violent wind
and rain storm did much damage to or-
chards, fences, houses, etc......An unmarried
Chicago woman recently deliberately mur-
dered her illegitimate child, a boy six years
old......A short time since a laboring man of
Michigan tried to kill his wife, and suc-
ceeded in killing himself with a butcher-
knife and hatchet......Miss M. Miller is on
the reportorial staff of the “Salem Mer-
cury.”....“Dolly Varden” sausages are ad-
vertised for sale at one of the Salem, Oregon,
butcher shops......The Virgina and Gold
Hill water company are taking measures to
supply Virginia with water from the Sierra
Nevada Mountains.......The “Present Age”
and the “Golden Age” have been consoli-
dated.....The “Elko Independent” has been
enlarged......It is reported that Grant will
sign the bill for the admission of Utah,
should it pass Congress next session......The
Oregon State prison boasts of ninety unwil-
ling boarders......Brooklyn has been swin-
dled out of something like $200,000 on late
contracts......Voorhees is reported to have
abandoned his Utah bill, admitting that he
had been misled and deceived; and Butler,
Potter and Eldridge are opposed to any
further interference with Utah affairs......A
narrow-gauge railroad is projected from Salt
Lake to central Nevada......Reports from
Spain say Dr. Houard is to be released and
have his property restored to him......The
San Francisco “Pioneer” has changed its
form to quarto shape and appears in an ele-
[new column]
gant new dress....The Rock Island jail is
now without an occupant, for the first time
......There is no whisky shop in Salem, N.
C., and there has been but one fire there in
ninety years......Irene Zackler, of Keokuk,
Iowa, has been awarded a two thousand dol-
lar verdict against George Musgrove for
breach of promise......Perier, Boon and Bau-
din, the three who were convicted of parti-
cipation in some of the most outrageous acts
of the Commune, were executed at Sartory
......Mrs. Josephine McCarthy, who killed a
man last Fall, in Utica, has been liberated.
......In Persia, tens of thousands of people are
reported to have perished from hunger in
little more than a year......The strikes of the
factory girls in Britain have proved success-
ful in nearly all cases......Jane Johnson, a
colored woman of Cincinnati, came to her
death a few days ago from the effects of in-
temperance......James Gordon Bennett, the
great newspaper man, died this evening at
7.25 oclock, in the 71st year of his age......
Edith O’Gormon, the “Escaped Nun,” is in
this city and proposes to lecture here on
“Life in a Convent.”


