MISCELLANEOUS.
		      —	  
  OF THE sixteen Hartford women who
wished to be made voters, two had never
been naturalized, two signed their “pet”
names instead of their real ones, and two
signed the given names of their husbands
instead of their own. Even if the applica-
tions were admissible, these six would be
ineligible.
	IT MAY not be known to many, that the
most expert telegraphers and phonographers
are to be found among women.  They read-
ily learn to be first-class type-setter; indeed
wherever there is indoor work to be well
done, where sobriety and integrity are es-
sential, there women ought to be employed;
and for the number engaged, we firmly be-
lieve they will prove to be more reliable for
the faithful performance of the duties in-
cumbent, than men.
	SPRINGFIELD, Mass., has elected Miss
Sarah J. Williams to be City Physician;
Twelve Doctors of Medicine in pantaloons
contended for the honor and emolument of
bleeding the Springfield paupers; and, wise
as they were, they were all beaten out of
the field by a woman; the Board of Health
considering, we are told, that “the majority
of patients coming under a city physcian’s
care are women and children, and their
cases such as a woman can best attend.”
	SOCIETY will not tolerate a woman who
objects to live with a drunken, brutal hus-
band. She married for better or for worse,
and though the man becomes worse, she
must pay the penalty.   Mrs. Nelson, wife
of Joseph Nelson, a blacksmith, living near
Sedalia, Mo., unable to live with her lawful
husband, tried to live away from him. So-
ciety said nay. Joseph said no, and made
her return. On Sunday, the 17th ult., after
she had returned home, he killed her. En-
lightened society!  Exalted husband—or
ought to be! Happy wife—in a better
world!
	A GENTLEMAN being in conversation with
a lady of this city, upon the “ insoluble ques-
tion,” remarked that the men of Utah pre-
tend to consider that women should hold
equal rights with men so far as they are ca-
pable; but that he saw no fairness in the
matrimonial proceedings here; for while
the woman has but one choice, the man may
have a chance to suit himself even should
he be disappointed in his first, second, or
other choice. The lady maintained that the
woman held an advantage to equal that, and
upon being interrogated as to what it was,
said, in vindication of her argument, that a
man, married or single, has no business to
fall in love with another man’s wife, but an
unmarried woman may fall in love with and
marry whom she pleases, whether he has a-
wife or not.  That was styled even weights.
	THE HOROSCOPE for March Is thus cast by
Josh Billings: “The man born this month
will be inclined tew blow a little.  He will
be a domestik man, and will know how tew
rok the kradle and pare potatoze.  He will
marry the only daughter of a widow, and
will be a good judge of mother-in-law.  He
will die about the usual time of life, and
leave a house and lot with a small mortgage
onto it. He will never run for offiss but
once and then will get beat. The woman
who appears this month will be an old maid
until she is twenty years old, and then will
suddenly put a stop tew this kind of bizz-
ness by investing in a yung man.  She will
be a good housekeeper, and know how to
make a plum pudding with the plums left
out.  She will hang on to her buty till she is
about forty-five; after that she will have to
take her chances.”
	THE HOUSE OF COMMONS has before it an
admirable measure for the better protection
of infant life, destined to strike a fatal blow
at the horribly outrageous system of baby
farming.  The bill provides that it is unlaw-
ful to retain or to receive for hire or reward,
two or more infants under the age of one
year, to maintain them apart from their pa-
rents for a longer time than twenty-four
hours, without first obtaining a license from
a justice of the peace. This license is only
to be granted on the certificate of a clergy-
man or other responsible parties.  Six
months’ imprisonment or a heavy fine is the
punishment for the infringement of this
rule; and the license may be instantly re-
voked if the justice of the peace is satisfied
that the child is in an unsatisfactory state of
health. The death of an infant who is un-
der the care of a licensed person must be
reported to the coroner, under heavy penal-
ties for non-compliance with the legal regu-
lations.
	AS A RULE, money paid to women for
work, goes for better purposes than that paid
to men. We need only to think a moment
over the instances that come under our own
observation, and we call to mind women
who go to their daily vocations, some to the
sewing machine, some to the counter as
saleswomen, some to the manufactories
where their exquisite handiwork may be
seen in quantities of beautifully wrought
articles which delight the eyes and open the
purses of the more favored of their sex;
others to the art galleries, to the cashier’s
desk, and to many more places which
they are quite as competent to fill as
men; and whose hard-earned dollar goes to
support, perhaps an invalid mother and
younger sisters and brothers at home. That
home devotion never forsakes her—the
strength of her womanly nature endures the
more, the more it is tried, and so she toils
on, her chief compensation coming from the
knowledge that she is using the faculties
given to her for a noble purpose. Can the
brothers of a dependent household, as a rule,
say as much?
	IT WILL BE, says the Pall Mall “Gazette,”
two hundred years in June since Peter the
Great was born, and it is proposed to cele-
brate with due solemnity the memorable
day—the eleventh of the month—which gave
to Russia its greatest Emperor. As usual,
in this highly cultivated age the commem-
oration will assume a prominently educa-
tional character, the foundation of two six-
class elementary schools being contemplated
for the building of which government has
set apart a sum of 2,000 roubles, and for the
maintenance of which an endowment of 7,900
roubles a year is appropriated. A statisti-
cal, topographical, and historical, account of
the city of St. Petersburg is likewise to be
published, in honor of the day. Czar Peter’s
maritime merits, too, are not forgotten.  An
imposing stone monument, to be erected at
Lachten, is to commemorate his gallant sav-
ing of shipwrecked mariners at that place,
and collections will be set on foot for the en-
largement of the mercantile fleet in the
Baltic. A full length portrait, to be painted
by one of the first artists of Russia, and a
solemn procession with it through the streets
of St. Petersburg, will conclude the festive
programme by which the grateful capital
proposes to record its thanks to its founder.

	“Arbor day,” in Iowa and Nebraska, means
one day set apart for planting young forest
trees.  There is beauty for the eye, mois-
ture for the earth and wealth for the com-
monwealth in such planting; and the ex-
ample of those two States should be emula-
ted by other communities of the west.


