			BY ELIZA R. SNOW.

	According to authentic testimony, an organi-
zation, of which the present Female Relief
Society is a fac-simile, has always existed when
the Church of Jesus Church has been fully
organized. “Elect lady,” as it occurs in the
New Testament, has direct reference to the
same—alluding to one who presided over this
Institution. See 2d Epistle of John, 1st verse.
	The first organization of this Society, in the
present dispensation, was effected on the 17th of
March, 1842, by Joseph Smith, President of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
assisted by other prominent Elders. His
apology for deferring the organization till that
period, was the great pressure of duties, labors
and responsibilities, which devolved upon him.
By his suggestion a meeting was appointed in
the Masonic Hall, and a limited number in-
vited.
	Perhaps a few extracts from the "Minutes of
the Organization," would be interesting,—they
being too lengthy for insertion in full:
			"NAUVOO LODGE ROOM,
						March 17, 1842.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair,
and Elder Willard Richards appointed secre-
tary.
	Meeting commenced by singing 'The spirit of
God like a fire is burning,' etc. Prayer by
Elder Taylor.
	When it was moved by Pres. Smith, and
seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that a vote be
taken to know if all are satisfied with each
female present, and are willing to acknowledge
them in full fellowship and admit them to the
privileges of the Institution about to be formed.
Vote unanimous.
	Prest. Smith addressed the meeting to illus-
trate the objects of the Society; that the Society
of sisters might provoke the brethren to good
works, in looking to the wants of the poor,
searching after objects of charity, etc., to assist,
by correcting the morals and strengthening the
virtues of the female community, and save the
Elders the trouble of rebuking, etc. He pro-
posed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to
preside over them, and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would ordain
them, and let them preside over the Society,
just as the Presidency preside over the Church;
and if they need his instruction—ask him—he
will give it from time to time.
	Let this Presidency serve as a Constitution.
If any officers are wanted to carry out the de-
signs of the Institution, let them be appointed
and set apart, as Deacons, Teachers, &c., are
among us.
	The minutes of your meetings will be prece-
dents for you to act upon.
	He then suggested the propriety of electing a
Presidency to continue in office during good be-
havior, or so long as they shall fill the office
with dignity, &c.
	Motioned by Mrs. Whitney, and seconded by
Mrs. Packard, that Mrs. Emma Smith be
chosen President; passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of Prest. Smith, the Presi-
dentess Elect made choice of Mrs. Sarah M.
Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney
for Counselors.”	
	After which the ceremony of ordination was
performed: “When Prest. Smith resumed his re-
marks, giving instruction how to govern them-
selves in their meetings, what order to observe,
how to regulate discussions, &c., &c., and con-
cluded by saying, ‘Do not injure the character
of any one; if members of the Society shall con-
duct improperly, deal with them, and keep all
your doings within your own bosoms, and hold
all characters sacred.’
	It was then proposed that Elder Taylor
vacate the chair. Prest. Emma Smith and her
counselors took the chair; and
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Prest. J.
Smith, that we go into an investigation respect-
ing what this Society shall be called; which
was carried unanimously."
	(The discussion which was lengthy and inter-
esting, is wholly omitted.)
	"By unanimous vote, Miss Eliza R. Snow
was appointed Secretary, and
	Miss Phebe M. Wheeler Assistant Secretary,
and
	Miss Elvira A. Coles, (the late Mrs. Holmes)
Treasurer.
	Prest. J. Smith said, ‘I now declare this So-
ciety organized with President and Counselors,
&c., according to Parliamentary usages, and all
who shall hereafter be admitted into this So-
ciety must be free from censure, and received
by vote.'
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting by say-
ing that he is much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart rejoices
when he sees the most distinguished characters
stepping forth in a cause which is calculated to
bring into exercise every virtue, and give scope
to the benevolent feelings of the female heart;
he rejoices to see this Institution organized ac-
cording to the law of Heaven; his prayer is,
that the blessings of God and the peace of
Heaven may rest on this Institution, hence-
forth.
	After singing ‘Come let us rejoice,’ &c., the
meeting adjourned for one week. Dissmissed
by prayer.”
	Before retiring, each gentleman present gave
a liberal donation to commence the funds of the
Institution.
	The following lines were found written on a
scrap and lying on an open Bible in the room
where, and at the time when, the Society was
organized; which have been carefully preserv-
ed and transcribed as an appropriate frontis-
piece to the F. R. S. Book of Records.
	"O Lord, help our widows and father-
less children! So mote it be. Amen.
With the SWORD and the WORD of
TRUTH, defend Thou them. So mote it
be. Amen.”
