HOME.
		   —
A very old and commonplace word, is it
not? But like Utah and the “Mormon
Problem,” it is a subject that may be reflec-
ted upon, talked of and written about, every
day and by everybody, and still be never
lacking in general interest.
  There is, perhaps, no other name pertain-
ing to earthly things—“ mother” excepted
—which contains so much “kind feelings”
as that little word “ home” ; and none which
conveys a more lonely sensation to the sen-
sitive and sympathetic heart than it does
when “less” or “sick” is affixed to it.
  Too much pains cannot be taken by any
member of a household to make home bright
and comfortable, to engender and inculcate
the spirit of harmony and affection that
peace and joy and satisfaction may reign,
and there be no mockery in saying “ sweet
home.”
  A habitation and its surroundings may be
elegant and luxurious, containing all that
could be desired to please and gratify even
the most fastidious, and yet, if taste and or-
der be not carefully cultivated and observed,
there will be no appearance of ease or com-
fort, and no enjoyment to be realized. Moth-
ers and sisters who think more of being
fashionably attired, and making and receiv-
ing calls, than they do of keeping their
houses in order and creating sunshine and
gladness therein, will sometime be likely to
see they have had a wrong idea of things,
and say with the “ Traveler at the source of
the Nile,”
	"O, Happiness ! how far we flee
	Thine own sweet paths in search of thee.”
  Heads of families who know how to ap-
preciate evenings at home, can often fur- 
nish useful entertainment for their little
ones by pronouncing words to be spelled,
giving mathematical problems to be solved,
grammatical errors or rhetorical blemishes
to be corrected or improved, etc. And by
this means children may obtain more genu-
ine practical knowledge in a couple of hours
—even while their hands may be busied
with some light task, preparing an article
for use, convenience, or to assist in beautify-
ing home—than is likely to be acquired in
three or four days at school. Besides, they
are under the benign influence and partici-
pating in the genial atmosphere of home,
where, also, should be taught and ever kept
in view those religious and moral lessons
which contribute so much to the force and
weight of character in after life.
  Make home attractive and pleasant and
children will not desire to wander off to find
enjoyment elsewhere.			G.


﻿“A Chinese newspaper has entered upon
its two thousandth volume. It has lost
nearly all of its original subscribers.” A
copy of this paper, the “Pekin Gazette,”
can be seen in the Museum in this city.


