	HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	IF YOU like the EXPONENT, get up a club for it.
For terms, see last page.
	CONTRIBUTIONS are respectfully invited on topics
of interest suited to our columns; but as our space is
limited, to insure early publication they should be
brief.
	IT IS reported that our next Grand Jury is to be
summoned and empanneled in accordance with the
Territorial statutes for the regulation of such mat-
ters.  At last!
	SECRETARIES of Female Relief Societies are
courteously invited to forward to the EXPONENT,
for publication, reports of the meetings and doings
of the various Societies.
	RAILROADS north and south, street cars for Salt
Lake and Ogden, gas works in the metropolis of the
Territory in a close future, buildings going up
everywhere; these are the evidences of our growth
and prosperity.
	WILL THE ladies in the different parts of the
Territory use their influence in getting up clubs for
the EXPONENT?  Several have laid us under obli-
gations in this direction already, and their efforts
are much appreciated.
	LAST WEDNESDAY Dr. H. J. Richards was
called to attend to a boy named Walker, of the
Twentieth Ward, whose face had been bitten by a
dog belonging to Mr. C. Napper. Teach dogs
better manners or chain them up.
	“THE REIGN of the Judges” in Utah has been,
if not glorious, at least notorious. It affords ano-
ther illustration of the proverb; “Man proposes,
but God disposes.”  Beaver, the latest scene of
judicial exploits, has our sympathy.
	A LETTER has been received by us from Mona,
containing money, with a request to forward the
EXPONENT, no name is appended.  We send the
paper addressed to the President of the Female
Relief Society at that place, hoping it will reach
the sender of the subscription.
	THE PEOPLE living in the extreme eastern and
in the north-eastern and south-eastern part of town
will doubtless be much gratified with the new meat
market in the Twelfth Ward, opposite the residence
of Bishop John Sharp, as it will enable them to
procure meat for their tables without being obliged
to go so great a distance as heretofore.
	SCHOOL FESTIVALS in different parts of the
Territory, got up on a large scale, have character-
ized the month of May just closed.  Such seasons
of enjoyment and innocent recreation have an ex-
cellent effect upon the young and impressionable
mind. The earth is not an abode of gloom and
misery, as some ascetics would fain make it appear;
nor is it altogether a mass of corruption lightly cov-
ered with floral beauties.  The bright sun shines
and the lovely flowers bloom for all; and children
carry through the journey of life fond memories of
such seasons of pleasure.


﻿A Missouri farmer attempted to smoke
out a rabbit, and burned up half a mile of
fence and over a hundred apple trees. But
he was successful; he caught the rabbit.


