WOMAN'S RIGHTS AND WRONGS.
			
  The agitation of the woman’s rights ques-
tion aims at obtaining a broader recognition
for the rights of women, as a moiety of the
social structure, now deprived of many priv-
ileges it is contended they should enjoy, and
refused rights which it is claimed they
should possess equally with men. It is a
natural outgrowth of the restless spirit of
the age, which seeks to accomplish “re-
forms,” real and fancied, in numerous direc-
tions. There are many rights which woman
should possess yet of which she is denied by
custom and by statute law, but more espe-
cially by the former.  She should have the
right to live, and to live purely, and not be
compelled by the force of custom and fortui-
tous circumstances to seek a living death
that the physical body may be sustained.
And to secure her this right, she should
have access to every avenue of employment
for which she has physical and mental capa-
city.  As it is, large towns are overcrowded
with women workers, thousands of whom
struggle along on a miserable pittance, until
sheer starvation drives them to the worst
fate that can be imagined that life may be
sustained. Custom has said that woman
must only earn a living by a few circum-
scribed modes of employment; and although
there is a reaction against this worse than
absurd Idea, the custom still obtains too
largely, and the needle and midnight
candle are yet considered, by too many, the
proper appliances of woman’s sphere. Cus-
tom also says that if a woman does as much
work as a man, and does it as well, she must
not receive equal pay for it, and herein a
wrong is inflicted upon her by the depriva-
tion of a right to which she is justly enti-
tled.
	She should not be held more responsible
than man—if as much—for sexual crime.
As the world goes if she sins and falls the
ban of society is placed upon her, she is os-
tracised and driven deeper into a course of
wickedness, while her partner in guilt, her
tempter and destroyer, walks erect and una-
bashed, received, encouraged and it may be
petted by those of her own sex who would
spurn her as an unclean and loathsome thing.
He should be held equally degraded—more
so, as more culpable, and deserving the se-
verer penalty.
  It is held that by women possessing the
right to vote, they could exert a powerful
influence in the halls of legislation to rem-
edy many of the wrongs to which they are
subjected, and it is rightly so held ; yet
much depends upon women themselves, in-
dependent of the elective franchise, in
changing the tone of society and in mould-
ing custom, that all of the sex may receive
justice from each other as well as from men.
Wrongs are not confined to one sex, nor are
women the only ones who are deprived of
rights.  Class tyrannizes over class, and
thousands of both sexes have to mourn the
deprivation of rights which they should pos-
sess. And while men have mothers, sisters
and wives, while the sexes are bound to-
gether by ties of affinity and relationship,
the good that is accomplished for the one
sex will be felt and participated in by the
other. The rich man’s daughter or sister is
not exposed to the same peril from want as
the poor man’s often is. To her it may be a
matter of -indifference whether her sex can
become clerks, saleswomen, telegraphers,
phonographers, compositors, doctors and a
score of other things for which they have
capacity; or whether they receive half pay
or no pay at all; but to the masses of both
sexes, who know what each has to endure,
it should be a matter of paramount import-

ance that just rights should be enjoyed by
all.
	In the application of manhood suffrage a
wrong is inflicted upon the women of these
United States, as States—one which the wo-
men of Utah do not have to bear. While
the elective franchise is enjoyed by many
foreign born citizens who may be but poorly
informed on the exercise of that privilege,
and by the lately emancipated colored popu-
lation, millions of intelligent native-born
women are deprived of it, simply because
nature qualified them to become mothers
and not fathers of men. They may own
property, pay taxes, assist in supporting the
government, rend their heart-strings in giv-
ing for its aid the children of their affec-
tions, but they are denied all right to say
who shall disburse those taxes, how that
government shall be conducted, or who shall
decide on a question of peace or war which
may involve the lives of their sons, brothers,
fathers and hus ands.
	But when women seek to essay the role of
revolutionists instead of reformers, when
they set up one sex as of necessity antago-
nistic to the other, when they claim for wo-
men not liberty but license to set at defiance
wholesome social regulations and nature’s
laws, then they are endeavoring to compass
a wrong beside which the ordinary wrongs
of the sex sink into comparative insignifib
cance.
	The subject is too important for any other
than a brief introductory article at present,
but with the EXPONENT'S permission I will
take it up again.							E.


