[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | May | Issue: 14 | Title: THIRTY VOLUMES. | Author: Unknown]

THIRTY VOLUMES.
	Perhaps there are only a few of our read-
ers who realize that it is now thirty years
since this little paper, the Woman’s
Exponent, first made its exit into the
world of thought and action. This num-
ber closes the thirtieth volume, and all
who are interested in the movement for
woman’s advancement and enfranchisement
cannot help thinking, how much they are
indebted to this little organ of ours for the
information and intelligence which has
been spread through its columns from time
to time ever since its first issue on the first
day of June, 1872.
	The women of Utah were among the
first to have a woman’s paper; at that time
there were but very few in the United
States and almost none elsewhere.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is only
three years and a half older, and is the one
woman’s paper which has continued dur-
ing all that period regularly.
	The Woman's Tribune, of Washington,
D. C., is a number of years behind the
“Exponent.”
	It really seems strange that the sisters
who ought to be deeply interested in the
“Exponent” should be apparently so
indifferent to its interest. It is impossible
to publish papers or books without money.
Recently we heard the editors of the
Woman’s Journal say they had been
obliged to put four thousand dollars more
into the Journal to help it along. There
have been before gifts made to that publi-
cation from rich people, which have helped
very materially. The Woman’s Journal
has an immense circulation because it is
non-sectarian and is maintained along such
lines as to make it very popular; whereas
the Womans Exponent is the organ of
our Latter-day Saint women and distinc-
tively the expression of women of our faith,
which has always been unpopular. Never-
theless our women have broad views on
general questions, such as suffrage and
higher education, yet the very fact that it
is a “Mormon” woman’s paper would
limit its circulation outside in the world;
consequently it must depend entirely upon
the patronage of our own people. Our
sisters should rally to its support and
help to make it a more desirable medium
of communication than it ever has been in
the past. It would be an easy matter if
the Relief Society officers everywhere
would advocate it earnestly; for the Relief
Society is the largest and strongest organ-
sation we have, and this is the paper that

[Column 2]
contains the general information needed
for their work. Whenever any celebration
is to be held among the women of Zion,
such as the anniversary of the first organ-
zation orPeace demonstrations,and the like,
then the “Exponent” is called in ques-
tion immediately. Silk culture, Fairs,
Bazars and the Suffrage cause, and in fact,
all progressive movements, have been pro-
moted through its pages. The sisters
scarcely comprehend what this little paper
has done for them during the last thirty
years; outside among the branches of the
Church in other countries and in places re-
mote it has rendered good service in the
cause of truth as well as in helping along
the organizations.
	Biographical sketches of the lives of
many of our good sisters have been pub-
lished from time to time, and the deaths of
hundreds whose good works have been
made known and their names thus perpetu-
ated. It has contained many testimonies
of the Gospel and its benefits and a large
number of minutes of the meetings and
conferences in the different Stakes of Zion
and in other parts of the world. All the
General Conferences of the Relief Society
have been published, and in fact, it is a
record of woman’s work and particularly of
the Relief Society.
	If the sisters could realize the importance
of having a paper of their own and the
prestige it gives to their work, surely they
would bestir themselves to obtain sub-
scriptions and make the paper so prosper-
ous that there could be no possible reason
for complaint as to irregularity.
	Let us hope for a more hopeful outlook
in the coming time so that such improve-
ments may be made as will keep pace with
the more modern times and better supply
the needs of the women now engaged in
the larger work of practical progression
and social uplifting of the masses of the
people, who are looking for light, knowl-
edge and wisdom that may help them in
their homes and to rear their families in
righteousness.


[Column 1]
