[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson I Theology and Testimony]
Guide  Lessons. 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
FiHSr  Week  in  April. 
SEEKING  A  WIFE— RACHEL. 
(Reading-:    Chapters  37-47  of  Genesis,  omitting  Chapter  38.) 
Marriage  cuts  a  very  wide  swath  in  all  primitive  society,  but 
it  cuts  an  especially  wide  one  in  the  early  days  of  Israelitish  his- 
tory, on  account  of  the  promises  made  to  Abraham  concerning 
"the  seed."  This  is  why  so  much  of  the  biblical  account  of  the 
first  patriarchs  is  occupied  with  the  matrimonial  affairs  of  those 
who  comprise  the  direct  line  to  Christ,  like  Isaac  and  Jacob.  But 
the  wooing  of  Rebecca  and  that  of  Rachel  were  essentially  dif- 
ferent, although  each  is  characteristic  of  the  times  in  which  it 
took  place. 
Jacob,  like  his  father,  was  a  shepherd.  But  his  brother  Esau 
was  a  hunter.  These  were  the  principal  occupations  in  those  early 
times.  And,  if  we  may  judge  by  the  characters  of  the  two  men. 
they  chose  their  callings  wisely.  Indeed,  Rachael  herself,  and 
perhaps  Leah,  may  be  called  a  shepherdess,  for  when  Jacob  came 
to  the  home  of  his  ancestors  first  he  found  his  future  wife  taking- 
care  of  sheep.  Josephus  notes  that  he  met  "with  shepherds  in 
the  suburbs"  of  Haran,  "boys  grown  up,  and  maidens  sitting 
about  a  certain  well,"  Rachel  being  apparently  among  the  num- 
ber. 
Isaac,  seemingly,  and  Rebecca  were  imbued  with  the  same 
idea  which  Abraham  had — that  no  marriages  should  be  con- 
tracted between  the  Chosen  People  and  their  Canaanitish  neigh- 
bors. This  pair,  especially  Tsaac  with  whom  the  hairy  Edomite 
was  a  favorite,  found  great  offense  in  Esau's  marriage  with  two 
Canaanitish  women,  one  of  whom  was  the  daughter  of  "a  great 
lord,"  such  as  lords  went  in  those  days.  Esau  realized  this,  for 
he  afterward  took  another  wife  who  he  thought  would  please 
his  father.  And  Jacob  might  not  have  done  any  better  if  it  had 
not  been  for  the  forethought  of  his  shrewd  mother.  It  was  she 
who  suggested,  when  the  rupture  over  the  mess  of  potage  oc- 
curred between  the  two  sons,  that  Jacob  should  go  to  the  land 
of  her  nativity  to  marry  him  a  wife — a  suggestion  to  which  Isaac 
readily  agreed.

GUIDE  LESSONS.  165 
As  in  the  days  of  Abraham,  so  in  those  of  Jacob,  children 
were  something  like  property  in  the  hands  of  their  parents,  as 
long  as  the  parents  were  living.  We  do  not  read  of  the  slightest 
objection  on  the  part  of  Jacob,  although  he  was  past  forty,  to 
the  proposal  that  he  go  to  Mesopotamia  for  a  wife.  Josephus  has 
a  curious  passage  in  this  connection  as  affecting  Esau.  He  tells 
us  that  Esau,  "now  come  to  the  age  of  forty,"  when  he  married 
the  Canaanitish  women  already  referred  to,  did  so  "without  so 
much  as  asking  the  advice  of  his  father ;  for  had  Isaac  been  the 
arbitrator,  he  had  not  given  him  leave  to  marry  thus,  for  he  was 
not  pleased  with  contracting  any  alliance  with  the  people  of  that 
country;  but  not  caring  to  be  uneasy  to  his  son,  by  commanding 
him  to  put  away  these  wives,  he  resolved  to  be  silent."  The  same 
unquestioning  obedience  to  parental  advice  is  observed  also  in  the 
case  of  Leah  and  Rachel.  Although  Rachel  must  have  known  of 
Jacob's  love  for  her  and  of  the  request  he  had  made  her  father 
for  her  hand  and  although  she  must  therefore  have  looked  for- 
ward for  seven  long  years  to  the  union,  she  nevertheless  had 
nothing  to  say  apparently  when  her  father  unceremoniously  sub- 
stituted her  sister  for  her  on  the  night  of  the  marriage.  Im- 
plicit obedience  was  exacted  by  parents  in  ancient  times,  not  only 
of  children  but  of  grown  sons  and  daughters  as  well. 
Whatever  view  we  take  of  this  marriage  of  Jacob,  much  de- 
pended upon  it.  Jacob,  by  reason  of  his  purchase  of  the  birth- 
right, was  heir  to  the  family  promises.  Moreover,  he  had  re- 
ceived the  blessing  belonging  to  the  heir.  When  Isaac's  sight  had 
failed  him  to  the  point  where  he  could  no  longer  attend  properly 
to  the  customary  sacrifice,  he  asked  Esau  to  prepare  him  some 
venison.  This  was  not,  most  likely,  an  ordinary  meal.  Rather  it 
\\  as  a  sacrificial  feast  of  some  sort.  The  aged  patriarch  expected 
>m  this  occasion,  it  would  seem,  a  manifestation  from  heaven 
which  would  enable  him  to  give  his  son  an  inspired  blessing.  This 
blessing,  however,  Jacob  received  by  anticipating  his  brothers' 
offering.  It  was  through  him,  therefore,  that  the  promised  Seed 
should  come.  Hence  the  importance  that  attached  to  his  mar- 
riage. 
There  are  two  customs  connected  with  marriage  in  those 
days  which  are  thrown  into  sight  in  the  biblical  narrative  of  the 
events  we  have  been  considering.  One  of  these  is  that  the  daugh- 
ters were  married  off  according  to  their  age,  the  eldest  first,  in- 
stead of  according  to  their  success  in  attracting  the  attention  of 
the  male.  Or  was  this  merely  a  ruse  to  deceive  the  unwary  Jacob 
into  remaining  another  seven  years?  For  Laban  was  a  tricky 
man  by  nature.  When  he  saw  that  in  his  proposed  son-in-law 
he  had  an  exceptional  person,  he  professed  to  be  absolutely  op- 
opposed  to  having  Rachel  go  to  the  strange  land  which  had  lured