[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Home of Heber C. Kimball, Nauvoo]
One evening in the latter part of January last, a few young people having assembled at the house of Elder H. C. Kimball, the follies of youth, and the temptations to which they are exposed generally, but more especially in our city, became the topic of conversation. The company were lamenting the loose style of their morals  the frivolous manner in which they spent their time  and their too frequent attendance at balls, parties, etc., etc., when Elder Kimball proposed that an appointment should be given out expressly for the young ladies and gentlemen, and he would give them such instruction and advice as the Spirit of the lord might suggest to him; which, if followed, would doubtless lead to a" reformation in the conduct of his young friends. This proposition was received with delight, and acted upon with alacrity. An appointment having been given out. a number of the young people assembled at the house of Elder Billings, when Elder Kimball addressed them for some time upon the duties of '"?Times and Seasons, Wednesday, April 1, 1843, page 154. 
 children to their parents, to society, and to their God; exhorting them to lay aside their vanity, light-mindedness, pride, and frivolity: and endeavor to show themselves worthy of the religion which they had embraced; advising mem to shun evil company (for by an individual's company is his character estimated), and to he obedient to their parents, for this is the first commandment with promise. This address was so well received by the assembled congregation, that it was voted, almost by acclamation, that a similar meeting should he held on the ensuing week. An appointment was accordingly circulated for the next Wednesday evening at Brother Farr's schoolroom, as Elder Billings' house was too small t<> contain the assemblage. On the appointed evening, the room was filled to overflowing. Flder Kimball addressed the crowded, hut silent and attentive congregation, for the space of an hour, in that plain, simple, and affectionate manner, which goes directly to the heart, and which is so natural to the speaker. He first explained the duty which the youth owed to themselves and the manner in which they might obtain honor and respect, viz., by applying their minds with determined perseverance to all the studies commonly deemed necessary to fit them for active life, and polish them for society; also to the study of the Scriptures, the Rook of Mormon, the book of Doctrine and Covenants, and the theological work of their most talented elders. By pursuing this course, said he. "you will be enabled to give a reason for the hope and the joy which exists within you  you will always he prepared to explain the doctrine in which you believe  you will ever he ready to prove and defend your religion  you will he well received in company, and will he esteemed by all wise and good men. We who have borne the heat and burden of the day, will soon go the way of all the earth. and give place to you, my young brethren. You will soon come upon the stage of action, and be called upon to carry the glad tidings of the new and everlasting covenant to the remotest parts of the earth, and proclaim the news of gospel grace to a lost and ruined world. Strive, therefore, to show yourselves worthy of your calling; he dutiful, be humble, be faithful, be obedient, and acquit yourselves like men. and women of God." He concluded his interesting discourse with a general exhortation to keep all of the commandments of God, to associate with none but the wise and virtuous, and lastly to keep themselves pure and unspotted from the world. This discourse like the preceding one. was received with delight by all the hearers. Brother Farr then made a few short hut pertinent remarks. when a vote was taken whether the meetings should be continued, which was carried unanimously in the affirmative. This room OUTGROWTH OF R. S. IN NAUVOO. 125 being' also too small, the next appointment was made for the meeting to be held at the house of President Smith. Notwithstanding the inclemency of the weather the house was completely filled at an early hour, and numbers were obliged to depart for want of room. The assembly were as usual addressed by Elder Kimball who, in* -a solemn and impressive manner, warned the young people against the evils to which they were exposed, and the temptations to which they were peculiarly subject; not only from their youth and inexperience, but also from their sanguine and excitable temperament. He exhorted them to be guided by the voice of reason and judgment, and pav strict attention to the advice and command of their parents who, being of. maturer years, and a longer experience, are much better calculated to guide the pathway of youth, than they themselves. He warned them against giving' heed to their passions, which he said would lead them into many snares, and difficulties. He advised them never to be forward in company, for "a wise head keeps a silent tongue;" to be condescending to their inferiors, kind and conciliating to their equals, and deferential but not slavish to their superiors. He warned them against frequenting balls and such places, which, he said, would generally lead to many evil practices, and would draw away the mind from more innocent amusements, and from their duty to their parents. He said he had not now, nor ever had, any objections to having young people meet together in social parties, or indulging in any rational amusement; but. he strongly opposed carrying" it to extremes, as it generally was. He concluded this address by exhorting them to give heed to his advice, for it was according to the holy Scriptures, and "to live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." The house being still too small, the next meeting was appointed at the lodge-room over President Smith's store. At the appointed time this large room was filled to overflowing, and the great number which assembled, testified to the increasing interest, in which these meetings were held by the youth of the city. Again Elder Kimball addressed them and gave them such advice as would be useful to them at the present time and also in their future lives. At the next meeting President Smith was present and addressed the young gentlemen and ladies for some time. He expressed his ^gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strongest terms, for having commenced and carried on in so masterly a manner the good and glorious work he had undertaken. He said it would be the means of doing a great deal of good, and of benefiting his young friends more than they were aware of: that the gratitude of all good men, and of the young people whom he had so much 
 benefited, would follow him through life and "when gray hairs should his temples adorn." he could look back with pleasure upon the winter of 1843, when he was engaged in promoting the cause of benevolence, and preparing his young friends for the glorious career which awaited them. He said that he stood before them with more embarrassment. than he would before kings, nobles, and great men of the earth, for he knew the crimes of which the latter were guilty, and knew precisely how to address them; but his young friends before whom he now stood were guilty of none of these crimes, and he hardly knew what to say. He said he had never in his life seen Mich a large company of young people assembled together, pay such strict attention, listen with such profound silence, and keep such good order, as the assembly now before him. He praised their good conduct, and taught them how to behave in all places, explained to them their duty, and advised them to organize themselves into a society for the relief of the poor. As a commencement to their benevolent efforts, he offered a petition from an English brother by the name of Modesley, who was lame, and who wished them to build him a house, that he might have a home among the Saints. This worthy brother had lathered together a few materials for this purpose, but was unable to use them; and, now, relying upon the active benevolence of the young people of Nauvoo, he sends this petition that this gathering might act upon it as it deems proper. President Smith advised them to choose a committee to collect funds for this purpose, and to perform the charitable work as soon as the weather became suitable. He have them much good advice, to guide their conduct through life and prepare them for a glorious eternity. He said he was very much pleased with the course Elder Kimball had taken, and hoped he would continue his meetings and that the young people would follow his teachings. A meeting was appointed for the young men to take these things into consideration, but owing to the appointment not being generally circulated, many of the young gentlemen were not present. The meeting was however called to order. William Cutler was chosen president, and Marcellus L. Rates, clerk. Andrew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer and Stephen Perry were appointed as a committee to draft a constitution for the government of the society. After hearing several speeches the meeting adjourned till the evening of the 23rd of March. At the next public meeting we were addressed by Elders Kimball and Roundy, and as usual received much good instruction. Elder Kimball advised us to choose our wisest young men, as officers of the society, and appoint a committee to wait upon the young ladies, as well as gentlemen, and obtain their subscription OUTGROWTH OF R. S. IN NAUVOO. 127 for, said he, "they are as full of benevolence, and as ready to assist in relieving the poor, as are the young-gentlemen." He also advised that no one be excluded from the society, of whatever sect or denomination he might be, and that all be given an opportunity of doing all the good in their power. On this evening the storm was raging tremendously, and the cold north wind was blowing in a most searching manner; yet, contrary to the expectations of every one, the house was almost filled, not only with young men and boys, but with the tender, lovely and beautiful women of our city. They seemed determined to brave every extremity of the weather, rather than be absent from the place where they received such good instructions. This showed the good effects which had already been produced by these meetings, and cheered on the spirits of him who had first begun them, and had since been their chief promoter. Instead of the young people spending their evenings at parties, balls, etc., they would now leave all, and attend their meeting. Instead of hearing about this party and that party, this dance and that dance, in different parts of the city, the Young People's Meetings became the chief topic of conversation. Pursuant to adjournment, the young men convened together on the 21st of March. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved, and the same officers appointed to preside as on the former evening. The report of the committee was then called for, which was as follows: Whereas, The young gentlemen and ladies, citizens of the city of Nauvoo, are desirous of aiding and ameliorating the condition of the poor and of carrying out the principles of charity and benevolence, as taught in the holy Scriptures, therefore, be it Resolved, That we form ourselves into a society to be styled the "Young Gentlemen and Ladies' Relief Society of Nauvoo," and that we be governed by the following articles, to-wit: 1st. There shall annually be elected, by the society, on J:he last Tuesday in March, a president, vice president, treasurer and secretary. 2nd. It shall be the duty of the president to preside over all meetings of the society. 3rd. It shall be the duty of the vice president to preside over all meetings in the absence of the president. 4th. It shall be the duty of the treasurer to receive all funds of the society, and to keep a correct record of all the receipts and disbursements, also from whom received, and to whose benefit appropriated, and make a report of the same, as often as required by the society. It shall further be the duty of the said treasurer, before entering into office, to give bonds to the amount of one thousand
