	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

		(Continued.)

	The letter, which I copied so freely, shows
what people can accomplish by putting their
trust in God, and walking in obedience to His
will and commands. The writer, in speaking
of "the poor, desponding Vilate," had refer-
ence to a time before they had heard "Mor-
monism," when, among other doctrines that
were being preached, was that of predestina-
tion, and she, not being able to feel a change
of heart, as others professed to have experi-
enced, finally came to the conclusion that she
was one of those doomed to be damned. Since
they were married they had lost a number of
their loved ones—two babes and her mother,
my father's parents and eldest brother, all but
his mother dying under his roof, and altogether
it had so worked upon her mind that she sank
into a state bordering on despair. They had
received pressing invitations to unite with dif-
ferent sects, and had passed through several
of their protracted meetings, and, as my father
said, he had "been many times upon the anxious
bench to seek relief from the bonds of sin and
death," but no relief could he find until the
meetings were passed by. They had come to
the conclusion to put themselves under the
care of the Baptist Church about three weeks
before they heard this Gospel preached by five
"Mormon" Elders, who came to their town from
Pennsylvania. Curiosity prompted my father
to go and listen to them, "When for the first
time," he says, "I heard the fulness of the
everlasting Gospel." They had partaken of
the Sacrament for the first and last time on
the day of their baptism into that church.
They had never found any minister who could
tell them what to do to be saved, only to "be-
lieve in the Lord Jesus Christ," and this only
left them in a more unsatisfied and sorrowful
state than ever. Though the Baptist faith in-
cluded some doctrines which they did not be-
lieve, they thought it best to put themselves
under its charge, it being the best thing they
could find.
	But a new and important era was about to
open in their lives. Fifteen years or so from
that date found them outcasts; their goods
confiscated, and they driven before the mobs,
because of the prejudices raised by those o'er
religious sects—into the wilderness, to seek
refuge among the uncivilized and savage races
from those bitter persecutions which they had
received from the day they had rendered obedi-
ence to the only true Gospel, which alone had

[Column 2]
sustained them. My mother's joy during those
days of tribulation, was because of her humility
and obedience, and so it was with all the rest
who did likewise. The Lord fed them upon
the pure bread of life during their trials, when
they endured them patiently for righteousness'
sake. He surely fulfilled His part, and I am
only one out of many who can testify that
some of the most glorious seasons were enjoyed
during that time when we were left, as it were,
with nothing but a merciful Father to look to
for our daily bread, and His arm to protect us
from the wicked who sought so diligently the
destruction of His people.
	The little meetings which the sisters held
twice or three times in a week, were begun in
the month of May, while we had the privilege
of Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Zina Young and a few
others, who went with the first company that
left Winter Quarters in June for the Rocky
Mountains. The spirit that began to be poured
out while they were with us, continued to burn
in the bosoms of those who met often one with
another, and the love of God flowed from
heart to heart, till the wicked one seemed
powerless in his efforts to get between us and
the Lord, and his cruel darts, in some instances,
were shorn of their sting.
	At the time when numbers were laying sick
with the terrible scourge that was carrying off
so many of the Saints, being made easy prey
for disease and death in consequence of the
weakened condition to which they were reduced
by long privations and exposure, and death
seemed determined to lay them low, my
mother would go from door to door ministering
food and consolation to the sick, and pouring
out blessings upon them, during which time
she scarcely touched food herself; at meal times
she would only take a cup of milk saying,
when urged to eat, that she had no room for it.
She seemed to grow stronger in body, and
had an abundance of nurse for her babe; in
blessing she was blessed, and there were others
enjoying a portion of the same spirit, and by
their united faith and works, with fasting and
prayer, the sick were healed and made to re-
joice more abundantly in the mercy of their
Lord, that they were numbered among those
who were to come up through much tribula-
tion and be made white in the blood of the
Lamb.
	There were many great and glorious mani-
festations—some had visions, and by the gift
of tongues there were things foretold, some of
which we have seen the fulfillment of, and
others that are coming swiftly upon those who
have turned away and are uniting their voices
and influence against Zion which we were
told should be established in these mountains,
where the laws of God were to rule, and the
honorable of the earth would come to dwell
within its borders, because the wicked were
allowed to rule elsewhere, and peace was taken
from the earth, except it were in Zion, a place
where righteousness would reign, and naught
should molest or make afraid in all the holy
mount.
	Many were the things revealed by the spirit
concerning the judgments that would be poured
out upon the nations after they rejected the
Gospel, and smote and slew others of god's
messengers who should be sent out to proclaim
the Gospel of salvation to an erring world,
and the righteous would barely escape, and
many of them would be called upon to lay
down their lives in their struggle for the truth;
also of the wars that were right at our doors,
famine, pestilence, etc., and the anguish that
would rend the hearts of the suffering and be-
reaved; that the time would be when hunger
would overcome every tender feeling, and even
mothers would eat their own babes. Many
terrible things were so clearly portrayed to the
minds of those who were present and under-
stood as they were spoken, by the gift and

[Column 3]
power of the spirit, that we felt to pray the
Lord to close the vision of our minds.
	Frequently, without eating or drinking, we
would meet in the morning, either at my
mother's, or some other of father's houses, and
spend the day singing, praying and prophecy-
ing; occasionally some of the brethren who
could leave their work united with us and re-
ceived great blessings in connection with the
sisters; many consoling things were spoken by
the spirit concerning our brethren, the Pioneers
and Battalion, to the truth of which they
testified when they returned.
	Sisters Presendia Kimball and Frances Swan
Kimball, also Emmeline Whitney, now Editor
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, were gifted in
the interpretation of tongues. The two former,
with a few others, met at the house occupied
by Sister Presendia and Laura P. Kimball,
and while conversing upon some of the spirit-
ual manifestations the same power rested down
upon them, and an open vision appeared to
Frances. I have not heard it related for
years, but as nearly as my memory serves me,
they that were there said she arose, and her
countenance beamed with a brightness like
unto one transfigured; her voice and language
was heavenly, and grace was in every move-
ment, as she stood there and related over
scenes in the experience of some of those sis-
ters, which were some of the most acute trials
that had been their lot to pass through during
their earth-lives, or while being driven from
place to place in Missouri, Illinois, and at
various times since they took upon themselves
the name of Latter-day Saint. She seemed to
be addressing one or more personages, who re-
corded each one's story as they were told them,
only one entering their presence at a time,
Frances being voice for them, as well as for
the personage, who, in return, addressed them
with a look of approval, and with a counten-
ance beaming with joy and satisfaction, they
were welcomed, and a bright crown of glory
was placed on each one's head, attended with
words suitable to their station and the occasion.
Sister Frances had known little or nothing of
their previous experience, and had never heard
the incidents related, but she described them
as accurately as if told by themselves.
	I heard the vision related, but Sister Presen-
dia could do it more justice, no doubt, as she
witnessed the whole, and at best I have retained
but a faint remembrance of it, not having
been present at that meeting.


