		ALPHEUS C. LOCKE.

	ST. GEORGE, Utah, June, 1879.
TO MR. AND MRS. ALPHEUS C. LOCKE:
	My Dear Bro. and Sister:—Your letter,
bearing date of January 2nd, did not reach
me until February 9th; I cannot account for
the delay. The mail ordinarily reaches here
from the east in twelve days. I will make no
excuse for my own delinquences, but will now
proceed to answer though for lack of oppor-
tunity am not skilled as yourself in the use of
language. But I shall presume upon the many
years of my past experience of the kindness of

[Column 3]

both you and yours, to believe you will over-
look all such imperfections as may appear, and
see only my main object, which is to elucidate
truth.
	First of all, you have my thanks for the
just compliments you pay to the "Mormon
women;" but why not raise these same "noble
women" fully up to your standard of refine-
ment? Am glad, however, to see the one
whom you have made brought so fairly to the
front; but will you please tell me where you
got the pattern? Can she be a daughter of
Abraham? If so, you have painted her in
different colors from the way she looks as God
made her, as I view her; the feature of selfish-
ness is far too prominent to fairly represent
the model which He has placed in the fore-
ground among the "holy women," where Peter
points at her as a beacon to light up the path-
way of virtue and refinement for every pure
woman in all coming generations. This is the
model I choose to pattern after, and such are
the women who have assembled in mass meet-
ings in every settlement in the Territory to
declare the sentiments of the main body.
	You seem to be in doubt as to whether every
plural wife is "satisfied and happy." My dear
brother, can you assure me that every mono-
gamic wife lives in the enjoyment of perfect
felicity? Again, if the class of "mockers" had
only passed away with Ishmael (which, unfor-
tunately for me, they did not) I should now
have less cause to pity myself when I think
how, as a child, I was subject to such usage,
and also to a sly pummeling, which came in
seasonably to give variety to the exercises.
	It is possible you may think these childish
bickerings of eight brothers and sisters were a
peculiarity of the family to which I belonged,
and not at all common in monogamic families
generally. However this may be, I will not
stop here to determine, but will surely say that
my experience goes to show that the practice is
not wholly confined to the children of plural
wives. Now, in this connection we will look
at the main question. as you have put it "Is
this Mormon view of domestic life the correct
one?"
	You do not believe in new revelation, so, if
you will not run away from it, I will try and
meet you on your own ground (the Bible) not
only in this regard but also on some points,
which I will hereafter bring to your notice.
	In the first place, then, is not marriage a
divine institution? If so, is it not recorded as
a part of that Scripture which is given by
inspiration of God and pronounced profitable
for correction and instruction in righteousness,
that the man of God, not the world, may be
perfect—thoroughly furnished to all good
works? If so, can he be thoroughly furnished
to all good works and be perfect? (mind you,
I do not say he cannot be saved in some condi-
tion) without observing this institution. You
will certainly acknowledge that, according to
the obedience to God's laws so will the reward
be. Does not God also command this same
man to multiply? And was this law or com-
mandment ever abrogated? If the Lord ever
did go back on His word in this regard, will
you please show me the record? Yes, say you,
Paul says, "I would that all men were as I 
myself." Now, Paul was unmarried, and so
it follows, then, that if that apostle spoke all
things by inspiration, there should have been
no marriages since his day; But Jesus says,
quoting from yours, "Occupy till I come." Of
course the men of that day could say in reply,
"My Lord, how can we occupy till then, seeing
we shall all be dead?" Jesus says again. "Feed
my lambs." Is not this bidding them to gener-
ate, the result of which would be the perpetuity
of the race of mankind; but here comes Paul
again, and says, in substance, I have been
talking with God, about this matter, and He
tells me (or I think I have His Spirit dictating


[Column 1]
what I say) that you must all stop generating
and marrying; of course, which will enable
you to dispense with the "feeding of lambs,"
and He has also concluded that, after all, it is
of no consequence whether any are found
"occupying" or not; at least, brother, would
not this state of things be the result of Paul's
teachings if carried out? But Paul was a
man, and, when not speaking by inspiration,
appears as liable to mistakes as some other good
people, for that he was merely uttering his own
opinion in connection with the "shortness of
time," appears plain to be seen.
	But God, who saw the end from the begin-
ning, has frustrated the designs of Paul in
this matter, by placing in the make-up of hu-
man nature a disposition to carry out His own
purposes of creation.
	I will not, however, do you the wrong to
suppose that you, with your imaginary faith in
Paul's theory of First Cor., 7-29, ever carried
it into practice, for how can I, as the sequel
has shown?
	If I understand you aright, you place the
teachings of Paul and those of Joseph Smith
in contra-distinction to one another; and well
you may, for while Paul is teaching merely his
human opinion, Joseph Smith is teaching the
revealed will of God, both old and new. Now
Joseph ceased to live in the year 1844; he
suffered the same fate of most other prophets,
being murdered by the hands of wicked men;
but I suppose the period including the "short
time" covers at least part of the ground since
that date, and yet during this same time you
have, if I mistake not, taken to your own fold
two of Christ's sheep and several lambs, which
fact makes it look to me as if the rope with
which you have attempted to hang the Mor-
mons had somehow slipped around your own
neck; but you are not the first or only one who
has professed to adopt Paul's theory, for in
1854 some of the good advent brethren were
so exercised thereon that in Lynne a special
meeting was one night appointed after nine
o'clock, where I happened to be present and
heard the people talk Paul till midnight, when
they returned to their homes. Whatever their
conclusions were, I never knew, but the cir-
cumstance was in due time followed by an in-
crease of family among the married, much to
the chargrin of one, Bro. Lyford and wife, of
Salem, who on the discovery in their own case,
immediately isolated themselves by removing
to Danvers, because of their dread of meeting
with the holy indignation of their friend and
brother in the faith, N. Florentine, who, as
shortly appeared, was in the same predicament.
In fact, I have yet to see the person who has
carried out Paul's theory fully since 1843 on
account of the "shortness of time"
	But further, you say that the practice of
plurality was never pronounced a duty or means
of salvation for either sex. This expression
of yours serves to again remind me that you
are not a believer in Joseph Smith as a
prophet, or in the divinity of the Book of
Mormon, but you say you do accept the Old
Testament prophets of God, and for this I am
glad, because we can together listen and hear
what some of them have to say on that score.
We will begin with Moses. Did not he declare
that if a man's brother die, leaving no children,
the living brother should take the widow and
raise up seed to his dead brother. Now, sup-
posing the living brother already has a wife,
can he in that case refuse to obey the one man
who was appointed by God as the great law-
giver? And what if the widow should refuse
to accede to those terms, could they both be
saved all the same as if they had been obedient
to the command of God as given by Moses?
Even had they obeyed every other and still
have, continued to live in violation of this
single one, would they not have been pro-
nounced guilty of all? And supposing such 
were the case, would not the salvation of each

[Column 2]
have depended, at least in this instance, on
their marrying? for sin, we must remember,
is the transgression of the revealed will of
God; and suppose you not that when Jesus
came He found the Jews living in plurality?
and yet we hear not a word from Him against
it; on the contrary, He even forbids divorce,
except  adultery, which shows that more
than one wife was lawful in His day. So your
hint concerning things which were "permitted
under the law, having been discontinued under
the Gospel," does not seem to include poly-
gamy; indeed, I marvel, my dear brother, that
one so well informed as yourself should so
lightly esteem one of the greatest blessings
ever designed for the human race by an alwise
Creator.
	To be sure your crusade appears chiefly
against polygamy, for you ask "how a man filled
with the Spirit of God could desire more than
one wife?"
	Perhaps that question can be better answered
by one of your own sex, as I will bye and bye
attempt to show you. Being myself a woman
you will excuse me if my sympathies in this
matter are entirely on her side, for tell me,
now, is not the system of plurality a fine thing
for women? It is in my opinion only a
false education that prevents a responsive "yes"
from the majority of women. Besides utility
in more than one respect to them--how other-
wise can "every woman have her own husband?"
for right in your own State of Mass. there are
seventy thousand more females than males (see
Dr. Lewis, in "Our Girls," page 150.) It ap-
pears to me that throughout the world general-
ly the females out number the males.
	You probably remember the record in the
second book of Samuel 12th chapter, and 8th
verse, where God by the mouth of the Prophet
Nathan, gave a number of the wives of Saul
into the bosom of David, who, as you will see,
must have had the Spirit of God at that time,
he being a "man after God's own heart,"
and yet God, whom you will allow to be a
wiser judge than myself or any man could be,
saw fit to add to the number which this spiritual
minded man, David, already possessed; one
would think in these days that then, this "good
man" ought to have been satisfied, and if he
was not he could have had more had he ob-
tained them lawfully, God's word being the
standard, but he was not to steal another man's
wife, nor shed innocent blood, both of which
crimes he committed, and these were the crimes
for which he suffered; a heavy penalty, but not
for desiring more wives than one. Of course
you must now admit that in more than one
instance a plurality of wives was more than 
permitted.
	Again, you inquire "how you could, with
your present  convictions, surround yourself
with the things of this world in order to in-
crease the number of your wives and family?"
I would also ask if you have not always
done what your law allows you in that line?
Of course you are squinting a little at the
Mormons again; so I will say that being driven
from their homes in a civilized and Christian
country into a desert, where their enemies were
so sure, they would starve to death that they
taunted them with the offer of a thousand
dollars for the first bushel of wheat they would
raise upon the arid soil they lack, in some
instances, many of the comforts and the
beauties of your surroundings--you see their
motive in fleeing here was not to aggrandize
themselves, but to keep the law of God, which
they understand requires of them one tenth of
all their income (whether it be a bushel of 
wheat, or less) to help on His cause, and having
faith in Him more than in all the world, be-
fore the sun set the day they arrived in Salt
Lake Valley they had planted potatoes and
corn, and the next day they "smote the rock"
and brought water from the mountains, which
the Lord had filled, and with which they have

[Column 3]
irrigated their lands and raised the bushel of
wheat (which, like the widow's barrel of meal,
so famous for its never failing qualities) has,
by the blessing of God, not only kept them in-
dependent of their neighbors for bread, but
has also fed some of their enemies. (I would
here remark that they never saw the color of
the money which was offered for the bushel of
wheat, neither did they expect to.) At the
time of the great fire in Chicago, President
Brigham Young sent them $1,000, and the
collections from the Mormons altogether, as I
am informed, amounted to several thousands.
This fact, and also the account of their giving
five hundred to the yellow fever sufferers at
one time last year you may have seen recorded
in the Eastern papers.
	As I was not in Illinois at the time this peo-
ple migrated there, I cannot take oath as to
whether they were warlike or not, but I can
say that in all my intercourse among them I
have seen no such spirit manifested to their
enemies; on the contrary, I have noticed that
in all their preaching and teaching, and in all
their writings a spirit of the utmost forbear-
ance is inculcated.
	May I hope that I shall not weary you while
I say a few words on the subject of the resurrec-
tion.
	It is stated in the New Testament, John 5-
21, that the Father raiseth up the dead and
quickeneth them, which would seem as if no
other person had anything to do with it. But
hark. Even so, just as His Father did it, the
Son quickeneth--who? Everybody? Whom
He will. So we see already two persons en-
gaged in the work, and yet it says again, in
verse 25th, the dead shall hear the voice of
the Son, which is to raise them to life, as if
the Father had nothing whatever to do with it;
but in verse 19, of the same chapter, it says
that even Jesus could do nothing only as He
learned how by first seeing His Father do the
same, and, being the Son, He is heir not only
of His glory, but also of His power, to raise
the dead. Now, Christ, being taught by and
assisting His Father, would it be strange if He
should confer the same power on His younger
brothers, by teaching them how to do the same?
Perhaps you will say this cannot be the design
of the Almighty, or it would be so recorded;
but who can say it has not been? There are a
number of books referred to in Scriptures
which are not preserved between its covers.
This fact is an argument to my mind in favor
of the necessity of new revelation, for how else
can we be instructed in all things which go to
make a man perfect? Certainly the books re-
ferred to were intended for that purpose. Be-
sides, it is stated in those we have that if all
the things which Christ did and said were
written, the world itself could not contain the
books; so that some truths are barely hinted at,
like, for instance, the baptism for the dead, a
work, by the way, which I know no people in
the world to be doing except the Mormons.
	Again it says Christ shall judge the world;
and is it any more marvelous to suppose that
the Saints shall assist in raising the dead than
that they shall judge the world--and thus it is
written.
	I can find as much consolation in the one
idea as the other, believing each to be true,
and both surpassingly glorious.
	You argue that Joseph Smith cannot be a
true prophet, because the Scriptures do not
describe him as such. There is evidence
enough in them to satisfy me, and if I should
write you again I will give you the references;
I fear I may weary you now. and I wish to 
take further notice of some other of your ob-
jections; but I will just remark that I am not
aware that the "young men and maidens" were
not so minutely described as to be recognized
by everyone. Some supposed they were a
parcel of drunken people, instead of the peo-
ple of Joel's prophecy, and how was it wi[---]


Christ? Did every one believe He was the
Son of God? Besides other vile epithets heaped
upon Him, he was called a "gluttonous man
and a wine bibber," and the most pious persons
that could be found got up a crusade against
Him and His followers,and the work of annihi-
lation is still going on now. 
	Your reference to the "Mormon" faith that
Christ had wives—this idea is merely inferen-
tial. You will recollect that at the marriage
in Cana of Gallilee, Jesus was called "the
Bridegroom" The bride is not here mentioned,
but who, I ask, but a wife would, even in these
degenerate days, come publicly and wash a
man’s feet with her tears and wipe them with
the hair of her head? Christ did not seem to
think the marriage ordinance so degrading to
Himself, but what He could sanction it with
His presence. Who was it I wonder, that so
dragged Him down to the level of mankind
as to induce Him to submit to be circumcised
and baptized? Was it not His own choice?
Did He not say it was becoming in Him to
fulfill all righteousness? Well, then, the ordin-
ance of marriage is righteous, or it is not;
Which horn of the dilemma will you take?
Perhaps He respected His Father’s wisdom
and judgment in framing such a law, and con-
sidered it as pure and holy as any other, and
one of the most sacred, and it is only wicked
men, such as many who sit in Congress, who
would seek to break down what God has
joined.
	Such men as I have just described know
little and care less how many hearts may
bleed, or how many homes may be made deso-
late by the breaking up of families in the
separation of husbands and wives, parents
and children.
	Have you ever reflected, my dear brother,
upon the consequences to this people if this
law just made—which is made by ungodly
men—should be carried out? Just think of
more than fifty thousand happy wives sudden-
ly made widows, some of whom have taken me
lovingly to their heart and home. “God setteth
the solitary in families." Believing He placed
me here, is it any wonder that my sympathies
are wholly with the people in this matter?
Knowing your kindness I am sure it must
undergo a great change ere you can look
placidly out from your pleasant surroundings
amid your loved and loving family, and see
those whose hearts are just as tender, their
affections as deep, and homes as dear to them-
selves for the love that is sheltered beneath
each roof, and not feel sorrow and indignation
at a law which brings naught but evil to an
innocent, industrious and happy people.
	Though your religious belief differs from
theirs, I feel assured your influence will not go
to rob them of all that life holds dear. Their
practice of polygamy affects no one who does
not wish it, and is no crime, except as pro-
nounced so by man-made law; God’s law does
not condemn it,but is on their side; so I believe,
and were I thirty years younger. I would test
the system practically; and you should have
experience therein.
	I am very sorry we are obliged to differ so
widely in our religious views; I would like it
better if, like this people, you could, according
to the Scriptures, "Walk by the same rule and
speak the same thing." I am,
		Very truly your friend,
