DEAR SISTER PEKO:

	Your paper and extracts were duly received,
and read with interest as I had a desire to
hear from the wives of Utah by their own
mouths.
	The remarks of the speakers in convention
or mass meeting, are certainly intelligent, in-
deed quite able, and exhibit a hearty ac-
quiescence in "plural marriage" and a vindica-
tion of it, which our New England wives
would think very strange, yea, quite impossi-
ble—but I was by no means surprised. It

[Column 2]
only shows what decided, whole-hearted
women will always do for conscience sake—
where such women come to believe that their
God requires even the greatest sacrifices of
them. They are not the kind to falter, and I
am inclined to think that some of those noble
women—can call them nothing less who spoke
in that convention, have away down in their
"human hearts" a consciousness of great and
painful self denials in connection with their
marital experience. For I think it would be
hard to find a woman of that class who, by
nature, would not ask the whole heart of one
honest man; and who would not shrink from
sharing a dear darling husband with even one
sister woman be she never so amiable and
lovely. This is my measure of the heart of 
a true, pure and refined woman as God made
her. You are a good judge, I appeal to you
and rest my case on your testing. Now, what
sayest thou?
	But as I have said above, decided persons
under tho influence of religious obligation,
overcome the strongest sentiments of the
heart.
	We suppose only the faithful made declara-
tion of their sentiments on the question of
plurality. It would be far too much to sup-
pose that all and every Mormon wife was as
satisfied and happy in her situation as those
who so heartily defended the peculiar institu-
tion. There may be some uprisings in the
mother's breast, who, like Sarah of old, should
see her darling child "mocked" by the up-
start offspring of some Sister wife by a later
marriage—but all this and much more of the
same sort cannot settle the main question. Is
this Mormon view of domestic life the correct
one.
	Now, with your indulgence, as the minister
says, I will write you a few thonghts of my
own, though aware of my utter inability to
do the subject justice.
	In the first place my intention is to take
Jesus of Nazareth for my teacher and master,
and with my present convictions I cannot fol-
low or acknowledge any other. Believing in
Jesus, I of course accept Moses and the
prophets, although I consider that we are
under the new covenant which has superseded
the Mosaic, so we no longer have Moses as our
teacher and lawgiver, but Jesus.
	Now, as to the claims of Joseph Smith to be
a prophet from God, I cannot consider them
well established and to my mind there are
many reasons for rejecting them.
	We have no Bible prophesy, which can be
construed to foretell the advent of such a
prophet as Mr. Smith.
	With the ascending of Jesus came the
promise of his return, but no promise of
a coming prophet like unto Joseph
Smith, who should introduce a new order of
things—He, Jesus, also promised to send the
Comforter (Paraclatos) which was fulfilled on
the day of Pentecost.
	The apostles while they direct our eyes to
the coming of Jesus to judge the world in
righteousness, and establish His Kingdom, give
us no hint of the coming of a prophet like Mr.
Smith. Jesus by the parable of the Noble-
man illustrates his going and return. He
leaves us in charge of his goods and places
us under his instructions and we are to occupy
till he comes. He is the good Shepherd and
we are to follow no other. This seems to leave
no room to introduce any new order of things
between His going and coming.
	The principles and teaching of Mr. Smith
seem so discordant when viewed beside those
of Jesus and His apostles that I cannot receive
them. To do so would seem to me like going
away backward, instead of forward to a better
dispensation. The new covenant under the
Gospel of Christ is pronounced a better cove-
nant founded on better premises. Under the


[Column 1]

old, the worship of God had been more a mat-
ter of external power; under the new, worship
of the Father was to be in spirit and in truth.
Various things were allowed under the old
covenant (which law was our schoolmaster to
bring us to Christ) which were discontinued
under the new, (being no longer under a
schoolmaster, do we need to exchange Christ
for a man!)
	While I embrace the teaching of Jesus and
follow His example, how can I settle down to
this life, and surround myself with wives and
strive to lay in store the things of this life,
that I may increase the number of my wives
and family?
	Although plural marriage was practiced
and allowed under the old covenant it was
never pronounced a duty, or a means of salva-
tion for either sex, as set forth in the teaching
of Mr. Smith, and though, under the Gospel
there seems to be no direct prohibition of
plurality of wives, that matter like many
others, seems to be left to the hearts of those
who would become a law unto themselves
when they had received the first fruits of the
spirit, and we might safely appeal to the ex-
perience of any one who has drank deep of
the fountain of life in Jesus, whether we
would ask for more than one wife. How was
it with St. Paul, chief of the apostles, and
who taught in accordance with the prompt-
ings of the Holy Spirit, that the time had
come when those who had wives should be as
though they had them not. How different
Mr. Smith, who, teaches that plurality is a
duty, must be practiced, though it violates the
civil law of the country, and then call it re-
ligious persecution when an attempt is made
to enforce the law. Is this submitting to the
powers that the apostles command us to obey?
not of course when counted to God's com-
mands, but the pretension that God requires
men to practice plurality, is too low, sensual
and worldly. It may be claimed that it would
be better for the world to practice plurality
than do as is now done. Well suppose we ad-
mit it and leave it for the world to practice
and sanction by law, but to say that the
practice of polygamy must be better for the
Church, who should have the Spirit of Christ
and are not of the world, is to my mind awful
and absurd.
	Mr. Smith's teaching seems worldly—very
different from the Gospel, though I am told
that your people say that even Jesus had
wives, but to my mind this is utterly without
foundation and contrary to every fact of his
history. Mention is often made to his mother
and his brethren but not a word about his
wives, which silence would be very strange
if he had had them. He positively says, "The
son of man hath not where to lay his head.
This is quite incompatible with his having
wives. The evidence points to his not seeking
his own, even in this regard. This sort of ef-
fort to drag down the Savior to their own
level could be only made by men who have a
desperate cause to sustain, but is a total fail-
ure.
	The truth of the Christian religion does
not like Mormonism, rest on the credibility of
one man, but has the broadest foundation, into
which is woven the united testimony of many
men and the evidence of many miracles, and
miracles far surpassing even the claims of Mor-
monism, to which we may add the evidence of
fulfilled prophecy. Any religion, as those of
Mahomet, Swedenborg, etc., resting on the
veracity of one man, have, in my humble
opinion, no valid claim to our credence.
	It appears that plural marriage was not
taught in the original "Book of Mormon," but
added by Mr. Smith, as a new revelation (his
enemies and others say) to cover up his own
social irregularities. It seems that his brother,
Hyrum Smith, never practiced plurality, though

[Column 2]

a Mormon, and was killed with Joseph. By
the way, if we can credit history, their being
killed was a natural consequence. Training
and drilling an army looks much like taking
the sword, and we read that "he that taketh
the sword shall perish with the sword." The
State of Illinois welcomed the refugee Mor-
mons, and I think if they had been good,
peaceable citizens they would have found no
trouble.
	The whole tenor of the Gospel, as taught by
Christ and the apostles, leaves no room between
the first and second coming of Christ for such
a movement as that of Joseph Smith, unless
we class it with the lo here's and lo there's,
where it undoubtedly belongs. Permit me to
ask how you, who had experienced such ful-
ness in Christ, such rest and repose of faith in
Him, even in sickness and prospective death,
can find any consolation in the teachings and
principles of Joseph Smith? Is not salvation
through Christ if we are thus full and sure?
When He assures us that all who are His by
faith will not be lost, no one can pluck them
out of His hand, but He will raise them up at
the last day. Is not that enough? Why do 
we need a new prophet? who could not die
for us or raise us from the dead? He, Joseph
Smith, died as any mortal man dies who in-
herits death from Adam; and as there is no
name under heaven given among men whereby
we can be saved, except that of Jesus of
Nazareth; even your prophet could be saved
by no other.
	We need no other Gospel but that of Christ
till He comes. The apostles taught us to
watch for His coming, not for the appearance
of Joseph Smith. God, who in times past
spake unto our fathers, by the prophets, hath
in these last days spoken unto us by His son,
and would He now be likely to go back and
make a new revelation through a man—one
man—and that, too, a revelation of such mo-
ment—really introducting a new dispensation?
This would indeed be very strange.
	Well, that will do for once, at least you will
think so, and if I have expressed myself posi-
tively on some points, I can assure you, my
dear sister, that even stronger terms would
hardly express my feelings in the premises. I
have no enmity against any individual of your
people. I love them, and would do them good
if in my power; I would lead them to Jesus,
the Blessed One, who is the Chiefest among
ten thousand, and the one altogether lovely.
O, I would not have my heart removed from
Him for all the wealth of Utah.
	My family are all alive and in their usual
health; indeed, things are going on with us
very much as when you were here; we hope to
have been learning more of Jesus, and feel
somewhat nearer to Him than in years past.
I know of nothing of especial interest at this
time among your acquaintances here. We
had the privilege of reading your long and in-
teresting letters about Utah, and did so with
much interest. How did you pass the summer
in your sunny valley? Will you write and
tell us all the news, etc. Should be pleased to
hear from you now and then.
	Yours very truly,
