CARD OF THANKS.
	The President and Board of Directors of the
Deseret Hospital wish to express their thanks and
grateful acknowledgements to all those who have
recently contributed money, orders and useful
articles to assist in sustaining this institution,
which is still in its infancy. The following is a
complete list of the names of the firms and indi-
vidual donors:
	Trustee-in Trust, Deseret Bank, Z. C. M. I.
Drug Store, Godbe, Pitts & Co., A. C. Smith &
Co., Moore & Allen, Roberts & Nelden, Zion's
Saving's Bank, James T. Little, Primary Associa-
tions Salt Lake Stake, Per Ellen C. Clawson,
President, Culmer Bros., Dr. W. H. Groves, Bur-
ton, Gardner & Co., Cunnington & Co., R. K.
Thomas, Swaner & Co., Henry Lawrence, Barnes
& Davis, Septimus W. Sears, White & Son, John
T. Caine, Jennings Bros., William H. Rowe, John
Daines, John Clark, Nelson A. Empey, Samuel
Teasdel, Carl Asmussen, John Spencer, Orson P.
Arnold, Catherine Horrocks, Co-op Furniture Co.,
Robt. Sherwood, Hardy Bros. & Burton, Spencer
Clawson, John McDonald, Mrs. E. J. Travis, J.
C. Cutler, John Q. Cannon, W. H. Rowe, Thos.
Jennings, George Arbogast, W. B. Dougal, Jas.
Jack, D. McKenzie, Wm. C. Spence, Geo. F.
Gibbs, George Goddard, John Irvine, Daniel F.
Daniels and Rocky Mountain Ice Co., Hogel
Bros., Sorenson & Carlquist and Mrs. Sarah T.
Wheeler.
	Some of the parties who have given may think
the Secretary has been very dilatory about pub-
lishing this notice, but some of the contributions
have only been very recently made, and this is
offered as an apology to those who may have
thought the acknowledgment through the public
prints late in coming. The managers are none
the less gratified, however, for the timely assist-
ance rendered just when Bishop Clawson, the
president of the institution, was obliged to absent
himself for a time, and there were heavy responsi-
ties resting upon the management. It is hoped
that all who have given to this good and noble
work will feel doubly blessed in return, for cer-
tainly "he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
Lord," and to be able to aid suffering humanity is
always praiseworthy, and brings its own reward.
