CRUSADE AGAINST MORMONISM.

     The Press and the pulpit, as well as law-makers,
seem trying to work themselves and everybody
else into a perfect frenzy over the "Mormon" ques-
tion, true it is this peculiar people "are every-
where spoken against;" the papers abound in
matter upon this engrossing topic, and some of the
greatest ministers and lecturers of the day take
up the "hue and cry" and proclaim against
"Mormon" barbarism," "ignorance" and
"iniquity." They either accept false statements
and misrepresesntations for truth, or they invent
the most ridiculous fabrications for effect, to
draw money from the people, and to awaken a
wide-spread interest in the matter, so that some
sort of capital may be made for the church, or
the government officials and hangers on.
     Occasionally some great speaker or orator gets
so intensely virtuous, that the sacred Scriptures
are not sufficiently complete and he falls to and
hammers away at "Mormon," polygamy until if it
were not an eternal principle, there would not be
a vestige of it left; but truth though crushed to
earth, will rise again. Men and women of great
learning and celebrity have tried over and over
to put down Mormonism, and so utterly failed to
do any more than create a commotion and a
[--]rore, that it seems strange that there are any
new aspirants to champion the lost cause. But as
it is, they spring up now and then like mushrooms,
and are gone like the summer dew, one knows
not where, and "Mormonism" lives and flourishes
through its own vitality, notwithstanding the
storms that beat upon it, and the twigs and limbs
that are sometimes broken off because of the
heavy winds that come against it, that only strength-
en the growth, as it were, while the pruning process
makes it even more wholesome and vigorous.
Thus all the extra work done by those who are so
anxious to destroy it root and branch from the
face of the earth is merely labor lost. They
simply defeat their own purpose by the course
taken and are doomed to continuous and eventu-
ally everlasting disappointment.
	The New West Education Society has taken
up the vexed question and one of the great men,
Rev., Geo. W. Philips delivered an elaborate
annual sermon on this topic at the Union Park
Church, Chicago, recently. He called his subject
"The Mormon Menace," and took for his text: 
	"There is an accursed thing in the midst of
thee, O Israel. Neither will I be with you any
more except ye destroy the accursed thing from
among you.—Joshua vii, 12-13.
     Spare thy people O Lord, and give not thine
heritage to reproach. Jeol. 11, 17.
     This learned divine applies these passages to
"Mormonism." The plan the society has adopt-
ed as set forth in the sermon is educational mis-
sion work. Among his paragraphs are such ex-
pressions as the following. The "public domain
is a sacred trust, a divine heritage, and when
"menaced with moral evil it concerns all the rest
to come to the relief of the exposed point. The

[column 2]
body politic, the family, our common christianity
have all been wounded by the poison of poly-
gamy. Patriotism, and piety alike join in the
passionate cry."
	Christianity wounded by the poison of polygamy
is too absurd, when Christ himself never, in any
place, or at any time protested against it, though
it was the prevailing custom of the country.
How much more pure are the modern Christians
or their civilization than that of the Savior's
period or when those ancient worthies flourished
at a much earlier day, even at a time when men
walked and talked with God. The preacher says
later on in his discourse, "Polygamy as against
the Christian family is the issue presented at the
center of American civilization in the near fu-
ture."  	*	*	*	"But its defeat
is no easy task. Such sins die hard," and he
adds, as though to rouse the intense indignation
of his hearers, "With its burning shame so near
us as to scorch our eyeballs what excuse can we
plead for our indifference?" The appeal is made
to send missionary women here and to establish
schools to educate this people and their children
and the people will respond no doubt with means
thinking they are assisting to purify and civilize
Utah, whereas, there is not a people anywhere
better able to educate their own children and sup-
port schools than the "Mormons". He says, "But
we mistake if we imagine that soldiers and courts
can cure the plague of the new West." "Law
when enforced leaves the evil spirit still in pos-
session. What Utah needs is light and grace and
social purity." His theory is all right here, and
he tells some truth, the very boons we crave are
light and grace and social purity, not, however, such
as the so called Christian reformers have brought
here with them, but the light from heaven that
flows through the channel of the priesthood, the
grace that is born of sacrifice of feeling to princi-
ple, and the social purity that is the inevitable re-
sult of obedience to the commandments of God.
	These are the stepping stones to salvation and
an exaltation, and the Latter-day Saints who are
now enduring the trials and hardships brought
upon them by such Christian teachers and preach-
ers as the Rev. Phillips are as sure of the triumph
of their cause as they are positive now of the
growth and increase and prosperity that followed
the exodus from Nauvoo. And this is precisely
what the enemy fears; they talk of the success
that has attended Mormonism, of suppressing its
growth, thwarting and crippling its efforts in
foreign parts, etc., and seem fully aware of a
power that baffles their most carefully concocted
schemes, notwithstanding all they have to say of
"our ignorance" and their own educational advan-
tages and intelligence. Mr. Phillips says "Mor-
monism is thoroughly possessed with the mission-
ary idea. It proposes to convert the Gentiles, and
is doing it with astonishing success. It is clearly
within Max Muller's famous definition of a 'living
religion, viz.: Systematic self-propagation,	*	*
Latter-day Sainthood aspires to dominion. This
feature differences it from all other organized sys-
tems of evil that taint our civilization. We are
just beginning to make note of the far-reaching,
intense propaganda of the Mormon Church."
	They are afraid of the little stone that was cut
out of the mountain without hands, afraid of its
rolling forth and crushing in pieces, etc. But they
will find themselves utterly powerless to stay its
course, or stop the progress of the Latter-day
work.


