CHASTITY.
				---
		So dear to heaven is saintly chasisty,
		That when a soul is found sincerely so
		A thousand liv'ry'd angels lackey her,
		Driving far off, each thing of guilt nad sin.
								Milton's comus.
	Most entirely do I believe the above glorious
words of the immortal Milton, he whose life
bore no moral stain, how grand an epitaph to
be written upon any tomb--chastity! innocence
before God, "purity in the inward parts," as
Scripture names it. Yes, indeed, a being so
gifted, without the stain of moral so rofuola
must be one upon whom the smile of approval
beams from the Great Father of the universe!
Love, that heavenly inheritance, cannot dwell
in an unchaste soul; did love rule upon the
earth, lust would not be known; yet how
this holy name traduced?  The true definition
of the word is almost lost on the general ear.
Name love, and its foul opposite is seen to rise
up in the minds of the mass; they are unac-
quainted with the true definition of the word
and the holy principle it represents so that it
has only the signification of the sound it has on
the lips.
	It is an untold blessing to have a pure an-
cestry, especially a pure parentage. "Chastity
must be an inherent quality of the soul; the
schools can neither make or unmake nature,
though they have the power to mould and re-
fine manners and ideas, they, of course, culti-
vate, modify and improve, nature, though she
has her fill—of school—will be nature
still.
	I know that all schooling, that is, educating
nature, must commence in the incipient stages
of life, even in infancy, as soon as it can under-
stand looks and the tone of the voice; from
that moment it should be taught purify and
refinement in its ways and habits--the infant
is ever a creature of habit, and it is the duty
of the mother, or the nurse, to see that she
does not break the order she has instituted.
Wisdom is imperative in all who have the
care of the infant--man or woman, for they
are laying a foundation for all future life, not
to say eternity, and the training, for good or
for evil, will have a powerful effect upon the
future course, for early habits are woven in
the web of life most assuredly.
	Mothers, and those who have the care of
young children and infants, should remember
to be in school themselves every day of their
lives, for even the infant imbibes the spirit of
her who attends it day by day and hour by
hour; delicacy and refinement should guard
every action, for be assured the plastic soul
will bear the impress given!  Language, also,
should ever be guarded, that no words nor ex-
clamations may fall upon the infant ear, but
that which is sweet, harmonious and loving.
	In bathing and dressing children, they should
be treated with the same considerate delicacy
that would be given to an adult.  I have
known children who exact this, and would
become unmanagable if it was omitted, and if
persisted in would break down to tears, these
are the naturally pure ones, that vividly retain
the dignity of their pre-existent home--their
parents also have been of the same; they are
souls without spot or blemish, whom the angels
guard, for they are the beloved of the Lord.
By such a course chastity is induced and culti-
vated in the nursery.
	How tenacious are the Scriptures on chasti-
ty both in men and women--equally binding
on each.  How fearful and instantaneous were
some of the punishments on those who broke
the law of chastity!
	Death before dishonor, was the motto of the
Romans. Sheridan Knowles has worked into
one of his most powerful dramas a display of
how this was carried out, in a most thrilling
manner.  It is founded on Roman history.
Virginius, a Roman citizen, has a lovely
daughter, who, being motherless, he has cen-
tered in her a strange and marvelous love; he
has had her carefully educated, and she returns
it all with loving interest; she is pure and
beautiful.  A debauched Patrician, one in
power, has seen her, and determines to possess
her, but, knowing the sterling worth of her
father, and that he is a Roman in very deed,
he can only succeed by having him accnsed
and arrested on some trifling offense, for high
treason!  He is, of course, condemned; he is
agonized, for he knows the wretch who has ac-
cused him, and also his foul intent; he asks for
a few moments to bid his child farewell; it is
granted.  He has secured his dagger, and
while lavishing on her his soul of love, and
folding her in agonizing fondness in his power-
ful arms, plunges the dagger to her heart!
Thus she is saved by the holy hand of her
father, by death before dishonor.  Here was an
immortal endorsement of "saintly chastity!"
Virginius did indeed drive-off "the wretch of
guilt and sin!"  This is a deed written with an
iron pen, dipped in holy and sacred blood, for
ever in the archives of Rome, and lauded and
endorsed by eternal ages, and it stands out in
bold relief, especially in this lax age, when the
whole world seems tainted with licentiousness!
Still, we know that in all ages, everywhere
there have ever been the virtuous and the pure,
and that they have been the salt of the earth,
preserving the mass from putrefaction, for they
have not bowed the knee to the foolish fashions,
or indecent practices of the age, and they are
those on whom the angels wait.
	But, as a people, we rose up and left our
father's house and the world in which they
dwelt, that we might gather and enter into
laws and covenants that would place the sheet-
anchor of our souls within the veil; and now, if
we have "slumbered and slept" let us awake
and shake off our drowsiness and start afresh
on the journey of life, and most especially as a
"vigilant committee" over our infants and our
youth, for such is greatly needed.
	You, young mothers, remember day by day and
hour by hour the mighty responsibility that rests
upon you, such as you must not, cannot shirk
with impunity; if you do a day of awful re-
morse awaits you!  Foster not vanity in
your girls by rich and fantastic clothing, and
frivolity in heart and brain; teach them to
know that these are the orgaus, and these
alone, that produce immortality.  As they are
cultivated and exercised in this stage of exist-
ence, so will they wake up on the morning of
the resurrection. Devote; at least, the next
twenty years to maturing and educating your
children; this will be to you the finest school
on earth; there, equally with your children,
will you be learning lessons that will fit and
prepare you for eternity.  Arouse that strong
individuality that you all possess, more or less,
and be not drawn by example or importunity
from the "straight and narrow path," but,
having laid down plans for your own house-
hold, keep "the even tenor of your way," and
the end will be joy and peace and satisfaction,
and your children will "rise up and call you
blessed," for they will love, and more, respect
you.  I know what I am talking about; it is
practical truth; therefore, receive it as though
you were my daughters; it is a small, but im-
portant legacy in a few words, but if you will
remember it and carry it out, and then a great
deal more "unwritten philosophy," which you
will discover as you climb the hill of life, you
will realize that I have spoken truth, and
you will rejoice therein, as  you will discover
that the refinement of the soul is the polish of
heaven!  True nobility does not receive its pa-
tent from Westminster, or St. Paul, or any
earthly court, but direct from the chancery of
heaven, through a pure ancestry.
	I wonder if my young brothers ever con-
descend to read the EXPONENT.  I have heard
some ladies say they cannot read the small-talk
of the EXPONENT. My readers, you may dis-
cover a strong vein of sarcasm runs through
this little pen of mine as I echo their words, but
do my brothers read it--my young brothers?
This is the question I ask.  If so, I would tell
them the reason I address my young sisters
more especially is because I know that woman
has so often been the keeper of man's virtue,
and when they meet in the great beyond those
to whom she has been their guardian angel on
earth, will gladly acknowledge it, and such
will shine with a lustre, the splendor of which,
at present, we have no conception of.
	I honor my young brethren, I feel many
 are commencing to be "burning and shining
lights" in the kingdom of our God, and that
the smile of their Father--God-- is upon
them.  Oh, may they set "their face as a flint"
to walk the straight and narrow path that
leads to life and immortality, to be enabled to
set their foot on everything that would arise
to check their progress in the upward path,
and be able to say, in the name of Jesus
Christ, get thee behind me, even though the
tempoter came in the form of an angel of light.
Innocence before God will carry man or
woman through life, and more, through death!
But without it--I will not contemplate the re-
verse.  May the angles of God surround His
people to-day as a mighty phalanx, is my daily
prayer.
