DO IN THE PRESENT EMERGENCY?

	At this peculiar time, when injustice and wrongs
of many kinds are inflicted upon this people, and
when women and children are compelled to bear
a large share thereof, it seems to me that a correct
understanding of our situation should be ascer-
tained if possible, in order that we may be pre-
pared to meet these constantly recurring circum-
stances intelligently.  We often intuitively recog-
nize that we are wronged, yet in many instances
it would be impossible to make a full explanation
of the wrongs done to us, and we as often find our-
selves powerless to prevent their repetition.  Our
present situation, however, is so plain and unmis-
takable, and the outrages committed by our perse-
cutors are so apparent, that we need ask no question
in relation thereto, but it would be well to ask our-
selves where is the remedy, and is it in our power
to apply it?  If we were viewing this subject
from a standpoint other than a religious one, we
should be compelled to reason differently, but the
onslaught that is being made upon us at the pres-
ent time, as well as the persecutions we have en-
dured in the past, have been directed against us
solely on account of our religion.  If we would 
only yield our religious faith and practices, and,
as President Cleveland expressed himself to the
late delegation, who were sent to represent the
true situation here, Become as they are, there would
be no further collision, no arrests, no convictions,
no fines, no imprisonments, but everything would
run smoothly along, for I believe the old adage
to be correct, "That the Devil takes care of his 
own."
	The practice of plural marriage by us we know 
to be in perfect harmony with the laws which
govern our earthly being, and consequently the
very opposite to that immorality which is charged
against us, and we defy the philosophical world
to prove to the contrary, while its social influence
is so far superior to that which grows out of the
monogamic relations, that it should never be 
named in the same connection; and viewed relig-
iously, its tendency is elevating in the highest de-
gree.  I know that many of my sisters in the out-
side world will take issue with me upon this point,
but let them remember that they can only reason
upon this subject theoretically, while I speak from
a long experience both with myself and others,
and I know whereof I speak.  If I might be al-
lowed to assume the role of prophetess I would
predict that before many decades pass away the
legislators of this nation will enact laws in favor
of plural marriage, instead of passing cruel meas-
ures against its practice, for they will then have
recognized its superiority.
	To establish the true order of God even in rela-
tion to any one principle has always met with the
most direct opposition, and has required courage
of the most heroic character to maintain; while
on the other hand mankind have easily and al-
most imperceptibly drifted away from the true
order, and have always found outside of it enough
to fully gratify the baser passions.  The restraints
imposed by the former are not demanded by the
latter in hardly any degree, thus proving the truth
of the Savior's words,  "Strait is the gate and 
narrow is the way which leadeth to the lives, and
few enter there; while wide is the gate and broad
is the way that leadeth to the deaths, and many go
in thereat."
	God has given to us a dispensation of the Gos-

[Column 2]
pel which includes the law of celestial marriage,
and expects us to maintain it, no matter what may
be the sacrifice required.  Because of this practice,
our fathers, husbands, brothers and sons are
dragged before legalized mobs—wrongly called
courts of justice—and are there sentenced to fine
and imprisonment, while we and our children are
compelled to testify against them at the peril of
our liberty. At the same time, good and whole-
some law is declared, by these same courts, in-
sufficient to be used against our accusors and
persecutors, who are guilty of the foulest crimes
named in the decalogue, and by this means there
is turned loose upon socity the monogamic liber-
tine, "whose marrage vows," in the language of
Shakespeare, "are false as dicers oaths, who calls
virtue hypocrite and takes off the rose from the
fair forehead of an innocent love, and sets a blis-
ter there;" things, not men, who, to hide their own
dishonor and their victim's disgrace, will pay
liberally to procure child murder. These acts are
interspersed with frequent visits to haunts of vice
and shame, where the basest passions run riot
and unchecked. There are yet darker spots upon
the picture, that we will forebear to point out, for
some things are too horrid to exhibit to the light
of day, and were it not that eternal justice de-
mands it, we would prefer that they should be con-
signed to utter oblivion.  But the secret acts of
men must be revealed, and when they are we can
easily imagine with what vehemence these corrupt
beings will call upon the rocks and mountains to
fall upon them, and hide them from the face of
that Pure One, who will pronounce their eternal
doom.
	If men of God will only come down to the level
of these base creatures, we can then be spared the
painful necessity of testifying against them, for
they will then be no longer accused and convicted.
	To become like them seems to be the only alterna-
tive left short of a prison. In this extremity, my
dear sisters, what shall we do? Shall we counsel
our loved ones to surrender in any degree to
avoid imprisonment, and thus secure to ourselves
their society and thier care? Let me answer for
every true daughter of Zion throughout these
mountains, and I know the answer will find an
echo in every true woman's heart. Maintain the
law of God at every cost. Let prison doors close
upon our sires, our husbands, our brothers and
our sons, one by one, until God shall say it is
enough. In the meantime we will work and pray
and hope until those same prison doors are open,
and we have restored to us our dearest treasures,
honored of God, revered of man, and thrice
precious to us because of their unswerving integri-
ty. This is the only way whereby we can help to
preserve to future generation this higher law
which pertains to the eternal lives, ordained by
God to be bestowed upon His faithful Saints.
	While I am satisfied that God will do His part,
still if we can at all help ourselves is it not our im-
perative duty to do so?  Most certainly it is. In
this connection allow me to suggest a remedy.  We
have for years past been sustaining a class of indi-
viduals who were eager for Mormon ducats, and
who have professed great friendship for us, but at
the very first opportunity they have shown the
cloven foot, fraternizing and joining in with our
bitterest enemies in persecuting us to the utmost
of their power, using our money to sustain a foul
sheet that is published in our principle city, whose
venality and diabolism is too well know to need
any comment whatever. I am satisfied the time


has now arrived when the women of Israel, young
and old, should withdraw their patronage entirely
from this class, and teach their children to do the
same, and no longer furnish the means to cut our
own throats. Let us be willing to make sacrifice
of everything that is not an actual necessity,
rather than patronize our enemies to the extent of
a solitary dime, for while we continue our present
practice we shall find ourselves in bondage.
	I earnestly ask the sisters of the Relief Society,
Y. L. M. I. Associations and the Primaries to
teach this constantly, until the practice has entirely
ceased, and God will justify us in helping to re-
move one cause, at least, that has helped to pro-
duce the present result. In this connection let us
teach and practice the highest principles of purity,
and throw around our children such safeguards as
will effectually bar the enemy from polluting our
heritage. Then will the Lord smile again upon
His people, and restore their seers as at the be-
ginning, and by the mouths of prophets and apos-
tles declare His law unto His people.
