R. S. AND Y. L. MEETINGS
	Synopsis of the minutes of the regular meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, October 31st, 1885, Counselor B. W.
Smith presiding. After singing, prayer was


offered by Sister Emma Toone.  Continued by
singing; and the minutes of the previous meeting
were read and accepted.  Minutes were also read
by the respective secretaries from the Y. L. of the
11th and 20th wards, and from the P. A. of the
5th, 15th, 20th and 21st wards.
	Sister Smith made a brief opening address and
gave the meeting over to the sisters.  Two or
three sisters in the congregation each bore a testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Counselor S. M. Kimball said any one who
could say this truly was endowed with the highest
order of intelligence, and working upon those
principles revealed through that source would
take us into the presence of our Eternal Father.
Several of the sisters in the congregation spoke
briefly on the times, the training of the youth o
Zion, the redemption of the dead, etc.
	"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," was
sung by the congregation, after which Dr. Elvira
S. Barney addressed the congregation, making
some very practical suggestions, and giving
spiritual advice; alluded to the condition of our
young people, and warned mothers to take
special care of their daughters.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of her recent visit to
the Penitentiary, and that the brethren were feel-
ing well contented; also Miss Shaffer, who had
been sent there for contempt, was satisfied to re-
main, as she was determined not to submit to the
dictation of the court.  She referred to the hard-
ships and experiences of the missionaries, and to
the position the Saints now occupy compared to
that of former days, when we were journeying
and pioneering from Nauvoo to this valley.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor gave a short sketch of her
recent visit to the southern settlements of Utah
County, also spoke of the strong faith of the peo-
ple, and testified that this is the work of God, and
all who are firm and faithful will come off triumph-
ant.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing,
"Lord dismiss us," etc.  Benediction by Mrs. E.
B. Wells.

     Synopsis of the minutes of the meeting held
Nov. 14th, Counselor Elizabeth Howard presid-
ing.  After singing, prayer was offered by Mrs.
Margaret Steele.  Singing.  Minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. Minutes of Y. L.
of the 20th and 15th wards, and of the P. A. from
the 5th, 10th,  21st and 8th wards were read by
the respective secretaries.
	Mrs. Howard called upon Mrs. M. A. Freeze to
address the sisters.  She spoke of her absence
from the city, but that she had enjoyed her work
in the, Temple and earnestly desired to perform
any part she was called upon to take, and to re-
main faithful and true to her covenants, in the
midst of the trials by which we, as  people, are
surrounded. Referred to having heard President
Brigham Young say that women were more spiritu-
al minded than men, and believed herself that it
was so; thought this was a trying day, but did not
think we had  come to the narrows yet, and those
who had not planted their feet on  sure founda-
tion could not possibly weather the storm.  Spoke
of her great interest in the young people, and the
regret she felt that any should fall into by and for-
bidden paths; urged the mothers to be more than
ever watchful, lest any be led astray.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde, President of the Relief So-
ciety in Sanpete Stake, occupied a few moments,
alluding to her recent visit to the Lamanite sisters
in Indiola or Thistle Valley, where they were or-
ganized and met together; said one of the
Lamanite brethren had urged her very much to
visit them.  She enjoyed her visit to them exceed-
ingly, and it seemed to do them a great deal of
good; they had a kind of re-organization, too, and
she felt they would go on better.  Made some
good and very suitable remarks about the manners
and deportment of our young ladies, and urged

[column 2]
them to be dignified in all their associations with
each other, and especially with the opposite sex.
She also bore her testimony to the truth of the
Latter-day work, and affirmed her knowledge of
plural marriage, and that it was from God.
	Mrs. M. E. Kimball expressed her pleasure in
hearing the voice of Sister Hyde, for she had
known her in Nauvoo, and that she was one of
the faithful ones.  She spoke a few words and
then burst forth in the gift of tongues.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor, after some preliminary re-
marks, spoke upon the duties of mothers, and
advised them to be as careful in educating their
sons as their daughters in the ways of virtue;
thought the Lord required as much purity from
the one as from the other, and that young girls
were entitled to receive as much in that regard as
was expected of them; thought that our children
should never forget that they are chosen spirits,
and should prove themselves such by their purity
of life.
	Mrs. Mary S. Snow related some incidents in
connection with her visit to the Eastern States; she
had been successful in obtaining the records of
her dead, and hoped to be able to do a great work
in the Temple for them.
	Dr. E. B. Ferguson made interesting remarks
concerning the eventful ttmes in which we are
living, and how awful it was to think of the
schemes that were laid for the overthrow of this
Church, and bore a testimony to the truth, and
earnestly entreated all to prove faithful, etc.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougal thought if each one would
do their duty there would be no need of the
different organizations; the teaching ought to
be done at home; very emphatically seconded
the advice of Mrs. E. S. Taylor, and gave other
good counsel.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of our departed sister,
that we had been in the habit of seeing on the stand so
many years, Sister Woodruff; thought we should not
mourn for one who had filled up her life with good
works and lived to such a good old age; she had
passed through many severe trials and much hard-
ship in this Church, because of the persecutions,
but had earned a great reward, and would certain-
ly get it; prayed that we might do as well as she
had done, and enter into that exaltation which we
were trying to attain.
	Mrs. Howard felt that the Spirit of the Lord
had been with us; said she hoped from this time
henceforth that no more of our sons and daughters
would be led astray; gave good advice in regard
to the training of our children.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Singing.
Benediction by Mrs. Julia Howe.
								E. B. W.


