ALONE Bertha Roberts I am alone, dear, in the evening twilight, A misty film obscures heav'ns deep'ning blue. Where are the beacon stars of yester glory That lighted up the way for me and you? I am alone, love, and the night is coming; ~ I cannot see—I need your guiding hand. The dark brings fears and doubts,—O, aid me, darling, My feet seem slipping in the treacherous sand. I am alone, my husband, and my heart aches, For with you gone the light seems fading fast,— But there,—far in the gloom a ray's faint glimmer! *Tis gone—'tis there—it shines, it shines at last! I am alone, my loved one, but that beacon Will shine into my heart and lead: me on; It is my star of hope which once was waning, Twill guide me till the Resurrection Dawn. EDITORIAL _  Business Manager - - - - - - Jeannette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - - - -Amy Brown LyMan Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IX OCTOBER, 1922 No. 10 THE NEED OF THE HOUR Paul, the Apostle, in speaking to the Corinthians, gives us the text of our thought in this writing: "And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellence of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. "For I determined not to know anything among you, save Jesus Christ and him cructfied. "And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in trembling. "And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. "That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." If there is any one larger message taught by the gospel of Jesus Christ, it is that wherein we are admonished to have faith in the Father of us all; "not to stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." Today, when books and schools are thought of as the primary factors in educating our children, this divine injunction of our Lord is in need of cultivation among the youth of Zion. It is something that should be their sotl's desire, and to it, their lives, as children in the pursuit of truth, should be dedicated. After all, faith in God is the greatest characteristic a person can have; but we fear it is the one that is today least cultivated. In past ages, the religion of Christ has been preserved only as men have walked in humility and uprightness before God. Today it is the guiding principle of life to direct men onward "with an eye single to the glory of God." The great things of the Church have EDITORIAL. $43 been accomplished only by faith in God. It was the impelling power that brought the pioneers to Utah; it was the power that gave them the strength to redeem the earth, and to build for the future. It is the power today by which the Church lives and moves among humanity with the message of the Savior of the world. The light and power of God are denied to no man who seeks them, With them, men are strong and are able to discern good and to shun evil. If a man has the truth of God in his heart, he is not deceived by "excellency of speech" or the wisdom of men. The Spirit of God discerns the Sp'rit of God; but he who walks and speaks without it is of the world and is unable to find the crowning glory of life-truth. Today the youth of Zion need the ring of Christ's message. They need to be directed along the path that leads them to a knowledge of God and his handiwork. For, after all, true education leads to the fountain of all knowledge, and God is the Father of knowledge and truth. He only is learned in the spirit of light, who is the "demonstration of the spirit of power." It is the cultivation of the divine within that will give us the freedom of truth. To the children of today, this message: "Put not your faith too much in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God." MERCY AND FORGIVENESS Ever keep in exercise the principle of mercy, and be ready to forgive our brother on the first intimations of repentance, and asking forgiveness; and should we even forgive our brother. Or even our enemy, before he repent or ask forgiveness, our heavenly Father would be equally as merciful unto us?Joseph Smith's Teachings?History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 383.