The Relief Society Magazine - November 1968, Vol. 55, No. 11

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1968

The Swallows Dorothy J. Roberts Back beyond the far edges Of time, refuting thunder And the violence of sound, Up from the cool meadows The swallows of my childhood come, To perch in silent symphony, Black notes on a wire staff Above the impending storm. They shift, move, Rewrite the score Of black notes on the coral Of a sunset cloud, Still composing in the lingering twilight Their silent melodies. Never a burst of song Though wings are everywhere. Only the lost chord of silence To assuage the dreamer's ear.

The Cover: Design by Dick Scopes Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: Symphony of Swallows Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

While vacationing at beautiful Fremont Lake in Pinedale, Wyoming, I have had a very enlightening experience of reading some two and three year old issues of the Magazine. Thank you, sisters, for publishing the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. You cannot imagine how much the Magazine means to us who live at the end of South America field of alfalfa, wild flowers on the hillside, a hummingbird all the beauty of God's world.

Ardath Esplin Staheli Enterprise, Utah

"Say Peanut Butter" in the May 1968 issue of the Magazine, by Janice Dixon was delightful. I always say a little levity leavens the loaf.

Florence Bittner Salt Lake City, Utah

I thank the ladies of the Twenty-third Ward, Ogden, Utah, for sending me the lovely Relief Society Magazine. I read every word, from the front to the back. Each article and lesson is inspiring. My hands are crippled with rheumatoid arthritis, and this is the only Magazine I can read, so I appreciate it.

Betty Ipsen Young Ogden, Utah

I appreciate the delightful illustration in the July issue (page 508) for my article "The Lady Who Bakes Cakes."

Gladys Thomas Pasadena, California

I am writing to tell you how much I enjoy our wonderful Magazine. The features, articles, stories, and photography are superb. I have always loved the honor given the sisters who are pictured with their lovely handwork.

Genevieve G. Bullard Roy, Utah

802

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Cultural Refinement The Satisfaction of Growth Rob) ===
Some thought this to be simply a tale of the necessary replacing of the old by the new. Others felt that it was no more than the account of an ignorant country youth who was frustrated in his search for help from a prominent kinsman and, as a result, finally joined in public condemnation of him. 876 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 26 -— January 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Cheneye Sy Bisley pS pl pil) Ss pil BE ag MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable in struction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house IS prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service Cloth Cover $350: Leather Cover Yearly Index Included $5 50 Advance payment must accompany all orders Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed Postage Rates from Salt Lake City. Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 5 75 Zone 3 60 Zone6. 85 Zone 4 65 Zone 7 95 Zone 8 105 Ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road. Salt Lake City. Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486 1892 Lesson Department Recent critics have been more impressed. They have usually recognized this as one of the great accounts of developing manhood. Note that even the young hero's name, Robin, is suggestive of spring-like hope and anticipation. Our identification with Robin may be so real that it is painful to relive our own adolescent frustrations and embarrassments in his story. Who has not, at some time in his youth, expected someone else to help make his fortune or provide an unearned opportunity? In his essay "The American Scholar," Ralph Waldo Emerson quotes the Swiss educator Pestalozzi to the effect that his own maturity began to be evident when he learned that '"'no man in God's wide earth is either willing or able to help any other man." If this verges upon cynical overstatement, it does dramatize the necessity for each person being responsible for his own development. Poor environment may make certain kinds of growth difficult, and seeming lack of opportunity may coerce our choices, but young men and women do rise above poverty and degradation through unremitting use of their own resources. There is no more encouraging note in this story than the continuing possibility of each person's achieving that success which is appropriate to both his aspiration and determination. Discussion Question We are often told that experience is the best teacher, yet some of Robin's experiences seem to leave him so depressed that they rob him of initiative. Are there some experiences a person cannot afford to have? 

877 November 1968

 Ad For reumd (betwen $1.75 & #250) send 'oft: _. Treasure up ity your min fterson, calligrapher, and elegantly oid ot) qualify parchment. S Tete 'A unique and urusual gift-ideal for framing. ¢ Ff selections and prices Putte Enterprioes £0, Box ae oult Lake City, Ut. A401 99 FOUR WORDS DEFINED PEACE is being loved in the deepest dimension. LIVING is loving someone beyond explanation. DEVOTION is serving others with sincere dedication. FAITH is saying ''I will" when the time comes for action. —Leora G.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 13 Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Pumpkin Pie for a real family taste treat. PUMPKIN PIE 3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon unflavored 1% cup U AND I SUGAR gelatin (or 1 envelope) 1% cups cooked or % cup cold water canned pumpkin 3 stiffly beaten egg % cup milk whites % tsp. Salt % cup U AND I SUGAR % tsp. Ginger 1 baked 9" or 10" % tsp. Cinnamon pastry shell % tsp. Nutmeg ra ee Beat egg whites and % cup sugar, and set aside. Beat egg yolks and Y%cup suga