[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | August | Issue: 5 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
The quarterly conference of the Relief Society,
Salt Lake Stake, convened in the 14th Ward
Assembly Rooms, June 16, Counselor Elmina S.
Taylor, presiding, in the absence of Sister Home
who was unable to attend. After usual exer-
cises, minutes of previous Conference were read
and accepted, and twenty-three branches of the
R. S. were reported, by the Presidents, or one
of the Counselors; after which Mrs. E. S. Tay-
lor made some appropriate remarks. Singing
and benediction and Conference adjourned until
2 o’clock p.m.
	Afternoon Session: After preliminary exer-
cises, speeches were made by Sisters E. S. Tay-
lor and P. L. Kimball, on the duties of women
and the privileges of the Gospel. Dr. Elvira S.
Barney was the next speaker. She gave a most
interesting account of her experiences during
her three years, absence in the East studying
medicine and surgery, said it made her heart
ache to see the condition the world was in. She
had sought diligently to prepare herself for use-
fulness in the profession she had chosen, and
was rejoiced to be at home once more among
the Saints. 
 Dr Romania B. Pratt spoke of her few
months' absence in the East and her great joy
in returning home again; that Utah was the
dearest place on earth to her, alluded to the
great divines of the day and their preaching,
said she could realize they had not the light of
the Gospel. she went to hear Henry War


Beecher and spoke of the absurd ideas he
taught and his ignorance of the true light.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon faith and
washing and anointing of the sick; appreciated
the remarks of Dr. Pratt, as she had been placed
in similar circumstances herself.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball made a few suggestive
remarks and expressed her pleasuse in having
today physicians among our own people.
Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, in addressing the con-
gregation, spoko earnestly In reference to the
Deseret Hospital, which was being established
by the Latter-day Saints, and appealed to these
present to take an interest in this benevolent
work. She also spoke of the benefit of the
washings and anointings for the sick.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke very en-
couraging to the sisters, both in regard to the
duties and responsibilities which necessarily
 devolve upon them and also of the adminlstra-
tion to the sick and afflicted. Referred to the
Deseret Hospital and the work of benevolence
and charity expected of the Relief Society.
Spoke of the union of man and woman in all
things and how necessary it was they should
co-operate together; the influence of mothers,
the training of children, the work for the dead
and many other interesting themes.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor then presented the subject
of the Hospital in a very earnest and effective
manner. Urged the sisters to become members
by paying one dollar annually and have their
names enrolled with those engaged in this noble
work.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze announced that the Con-
ference of Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A., would be
held next day June 17, in the Assembly Hall.
Conference adjourned for three months. Sing-
lng, “The Spirit of God, etc." Benediction by
President Woodruff.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WORK.
	Last Monday morning, while I was making
my toilet, I was thinking over a very beautiful
ceremony which I had witnessed the day be-
fore.  It was all fresh in my memory then, and
I wanted so much to sit down and write it all
out. But the duties of the day were before me,
the domestic duties of a wife and mother on
Monday and I had to content myself with look-
ing wistfully towards my pen, and then turn
my thoughts upon other topics.
	It occurred to my mind, that if the thousands
of wives and mothers who have rare and beauti-
ful thoughts which they would love to embody
and put on paper, but to whom the opportuni-
ties of so doing never come, should once do,
what I then thought of doing--all shut them-
selves up away from the household, away from
their outer cares and preplexitites, and commence
writing--what a shock business generally would
sustain.  I laid this thought aside also, and
went quietly about my work; remembering
that I was no longer a girl at home, with a
loving, indulgent mother and generous older sis-
ters to look after and do the work if I neglect it.
	However willing and efficient the person or
persons may be who are paid for their services
about the house, the care and responsibilities of
domestic concerns being kept in order, must rest
upon the wife and mother, if she will be faith-
ful to her calling in all things. And sometimes
they will rest heavily and feel burdensome, no
matter how hard she may try to believe that
labors of love are always sweet and light.
	But let no young woman imagine the state of
continued maidenhood preferable to taking upon
herself the important mission of a true help-
mate to man, which the great Father designed
her to fill.  Be it far from me to encourage any
such fallacy.


What if wives must work? So must every
one else; except some who shirk their real por-
tions in life, and who will be pretty sure to fall
short of their expectations in the day of rewards.
We must eat. We must be clothed. Washing
and ironing must be done for us all; and we
must work and should enjoy it, generally. And
when we have duties to perform which do not
exactly accord with our frame of mind at the
time, we must perform them with as good grace
as possible, and try to be satisfied.
	We who are constantly striving to prepare for
the great future as well as to provide for the
present, who strive to live not only for our own
good, but for the good of our fellowbeings, and
the glory of our Creator, have double or triple
work to do. And in all, we must not forget nor
neglect the practical part.
	At this season of the year, we must remem-
ber and be on hand for our wheat gathering and
storing away for future need. In this work, the
older members of our Primary Associations, if
properly encouraged and instructed, might ren-
der great assistance. They could raise beans
too, with much profit.				LULA.


