Paxman 400 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE gested that choristers read something of the lives of the great composers to their singing groups. She expressed the hope that the time would come when an audience such as the one assembled could sing together as a chorus. Representation and Attendance Members of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society were in constant attendance at the three main entrances to the Assembly Hall during the three officers' meetings held there, welcoming the representatives attending the mectings, distributing printed programs, and assisting in the registration of attendance. All twenty-three members of the General Board were present at the conference. __ Nearly every stake of the Church responded to the roll call in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning—135 of the total of 138—all but San Luis in southwestern Colorado, Seattle in Washington, and Washington in the District of Columbia. In addition to stake representation, mission Relief Society presidents or their official representatives from six of the twelve missions in the United States were present: the California, Central States, New England, Northern States, Northwestern States, and Western States missions. Local Relief Society officers were in attendance from four other missions in the United States: East Central States, North Central States, Southern States, and Texas missions. 'T'wo Relief Society workers from Hawaii were also present— Eva B. Jensen, president of the Japanese Mission Relief Society, and Sai Lang Akana Aki, of Honolulu, a 731 Relief Society visiting teacher from the Oahu Stake in Hawaii, who is also chairman of welfare work in a Church organization there for the Chinese. Helen Harker, a Relief Society member from Australia who is visiting in the United States, was an enthusiastic attendant at the conference. The attendance at each session of the conference is shown in the schedule of meetings. President Heber J. Grant sent a written message (reproduced in full on page 764), which was read at the general session in the Tabernacle by President Amy Brown Lyman. The address, "Women and the Church," by Elder Stephen L Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, delivered at the general session, will be printed in a later issue of the . Elder Marion D. Romney, one of the assistants to the Council of the Twelve and newly appointed Assistant Managing Director of the Church welfare program, spoke in the officers' meeting on Thursday morning on "The Church Welfare Program for 1942"; this address will also appear in a later issue of the Magazine.. Wives of General Authorities of the Church who attended various sessions of the Relief Society conference included Mrs. Heber J. Grant and Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.; also Madeline B. Wirthlin, Fern T. Lee, and Ida J. Romney, each of whom offered prayer in the principal sessions. Recently returned Relief Society mission presidents also offered prayer—Luella R. Christiansen of the Texas Mission; Ann P. Nibley, Northwestern States Mission; and Fawn B. McKay, Swiss Mission. Mrs. McKay made a spe- 732 cial appeal in prayer in the interest of the Relief Society women and _ members of the Church generally in the countries which are at war. In her opening address at the Tabernacle session, President Lyman mourned the passing earlier in the week of Emily T. Merrill, wife of Elder Joseph F. Merrill, of the Council of the Twelve, commenting on Mrs. Merrill's regular attendance in the past at general conferences of Relief Society, and her valuable service as a ward Relief Society president. Music at the Conference Lily Priestly rendered the organ prelude as the 'stake officers and board members congregated for the three officers' meetings of the conference in the Assembly Hall. She also accompanied the singing at the sessions in the Assembly Hall, and gave valuable assistance in the Wednesday afternoon music department, which was also held in the Assembly Hall, and which featured the ten songs to be included in the concert to be presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in April, 1942, as a part of the general centennial celebration. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen was in charge of the music department, and was assisted by Wade N. Stephens, assistant 'Tabernacle organist, in giving instruction and conducting a practice of the songs for the centennial concert. Following is a list of the ten songs which are to be sung in addition to the cantata Resurrection Morning, at the centennial concert: Price "A Song of Triumph'—Beatrice F. Stevens (words by Beatrice F. Stevens) Two Centennial Songs