Ee itera ture Department Humor—A Universal Benefactor Rae B. Barker Relief Society General Board Member T the time the subject of humor was selected as the 1941-42 literature course of study, there was only a foreshadowing of dark days ahead in world affairs. Now storm clouds hang heavily on the social horizon of the whole world. This year, as in other years, it seems that the choice of subject matter was directed to mect a specific need. When bewilderment, headlines, and grim newscasts begin to devitalize our spirits, it is wisdom to consciously do something which will help to release the psychological tension and maintain healthy group morale. At the present time, we may look back and see how in all periods, in all 748 places, and for all people, humor has served as a safety valve, a balance spring to offset the degenerative effects of excesses—too much gruelling work, too much worry, tragedy, excessive vanity, pride, pretense and the common sin of being overserious. | Aside from the present apparent need for more humor, there is another major reason for choosing this particular subject, as indicated in the title itself—"Humor in Life and Literature." Humor is a fundamental human emotion, and as such should be a definite part of good literature, for good literature records life faithfully. Our Relief Society study of literature would be as incomplete without consideration being given to humor as our lives would be drab if robbed of humor. The same test may be applied to determine good humor as to determine good literature in general. The lessons have been developed by the writer in such a manner as to give us definite help on this phase of the subject. The axiom, "Tell me what you laugh at and I'll tell you what you are," directs our thinking to another objective in the selection of this course: the development of discrimination. To direct the choice of illustrations used, to cultivate refinement, polish, and a sense of appropriateness will challenge our best efforts as literature leaders. The result of our work will no doubt be 

 

 a rise in the general tenor of humor enjoyed by Relief Society women. Wholesome enjoyment is certainly a worthwhile objective. Perhaps one of the finest ways in which this course will serve will be through the benefits which will come to our families. We believe that because of it our families will be happier families. Quoting Elsie Carroll, "Humor is a vital element in successful, happy living; a sense of humor is a precious, saving characteristic which (fortunately) can be, at least to some extent, cultivated." Humor lubricates the wheels of living. If we laugh more, perhaps we will scold less. To laugh with our children, to be equipped to tell stories by which they absorb discrimination, is an invaluable means of helping to keep young people wholesome and older people young. To be young in spirit is no idle ambition. The vicissitudes and the many disillusioning experiences which accompany maturity make it so easy to lose much of the natural response to merriment which as children we were blessed with. Because humor has served all periods, we can expect it to serve now. Our appreciation of good, high-class humor as part of good literature will, no doubt, be increased during the coming year, and the level of that which we enjoy should be improved. Our families should be made happier, and we ourselves should be aided in keeping buoyant and young.