Our Permanent Centennial Memorial Mary G. Judd Relief Society General Board Member WE are certain that all who attend the Church-wide centennial celebration to be held in connection with the Relief Society general conference, April, 1942, will return to their homes feeling that they have participated in what is truly an epochal period in Relief Society history.. And yet, unless we do something about it, the time will come when this wonderful occasion will be a thing of the past and will live only in our memories. And so it has come to the General Board with ever-increasing clearness that some permanent memorial should be left—something of lasting value. Casting about for a suitable project, the idea came to mind of hanging the historic Nauvoo Temple bell in a permanent and beautiful setting. It was not until the subject was broached to the Presiding Bishopric that it was learned that such a project had been under consideration for some time, but that no definite decision on the matter had been reached by the First Presidency. So we feel that perhaps the plans had been slowed up in order that the Relief Society could have the privilege of placing this bell on Temple Square to commemorate the unselfish service and wonderful devotion of thousands of Latter-day Saint women over a period of one hundred years. We feel that it is peculiarly fitting that the Relief Society should sponsor this project because one of the reasons for the organization of our Society in Nauvoo was to enable the Latter-day Saint women to more efficiently do their part in feeding and clothing the men who were working on the Temple where the bell originally hung. There is still another tie connecting us with the bell. In the same pioneer company which transported this valuable relic to the West, came Fliza R. Snow, our first secretary; and, safe in her keeping, in the covered wagon that lumbered over the plains, were the precious minutes of our first meetings in Nauvoo. It was in the second great exodus from Winter Quarters—the exodus which in my mind is second to none in history—that the Nauvoo Temple bell played a prominent part. I like to visualize those early morning scenes on the plains. Let me read one of many quotations that might be given from the day-by-day record of the trek. The entry for June 22, 1847, reads: "The morning was fine and calm at the encampment of the emigrating Saints. At 8 o'clock a.m. The signal for starting was given by the ringing of the Temple bell. The companies formed with five lines abreast, with the Temple bell in the lead. In this order the companies traveled that day twelve miles and reached Diamond Island, where they camped for the night, about sundown. 'They watered their cattle in the Platte River by moonlight and then took them out to feed a while." Just where did the bell come from originally? We have information which tells. Us. In the year 1845, Wilford Woodruff was presiding over the British Mission. On May 8 of that year, he received a communication from the Council of the Twelve, which read: "We thought it would be very agreeable to the feelings of the English Saints to furnish a bell for the Temple. If this is their pleasure, you can forward it by the first conveyance, and we will have it hung as the building is going up." Brother Woodruff reports having collected $1,500 from the English Saints, which would easily cover the cost. It was but a short time that the bell hung in the place for which it was intended, for "Nauvoo the Beautiful," because of the designs of wicked men, became a place of desolation. After the first group of Saints had fled from their loved city over the icy Mississippi, Colonel Thomas L. Kane tells how he heard the mob who had taken possession of the Temple, whooping and 'shrieking in drunken frenzy as they beat a drum and rang the bell. From Winter Quarters, under date of September 26, 1846, President Brigham Young sent a letter back to Nauvoo in which he said: "As you will have no further use for the Temple bell, we wish you to forward it to us by the first possible chance, for we have much need of it at this place." President Young's letter came just in time, for already lawless persons had planned to steal the bell. Grateful appreciation is due David Burlock Lamoreaux, who saved the bell. The marauders had hoisted it and were making ready to steal it when Brother Lamoreaux drove his wagon underneath, loaded the bell upon it, and delivered it to the Church—its rightful owner. It is the plan to give this historic bell, which has been in our midst longer than the memory of any living man, the kind of setting which it so richly deserves. An able architect, Brother Lorenzo Young, who is also a grandson of Brigham Young and a grandnephew of Eliza R. Snow, has designed a graceful tower to house the bell. The base will be of granite, the top of grilled bronze, to harmonize with the bronze bell. The First Presidency has given us not only their permission but their enthusiastic encouragement in this project, for which we thank them. What could be more fitting than that the tones of this melodious bell should ring out joyfully at the culmination of the Relief Society centenary, even as they did at the beginning of the century when Relief Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith?