Oe Work-and-Business Better Buymanship Lesson 5 Ready-To-Wear Dresses And Coats (Tuesday, February 10, 1942) A SHIFT has taken place in the purchasing habits of American women as is shown by the fact that forty years ago the ready-made dress trade was negligible, and in 1931 there were placed on the market 167 million dresses. Today several thousand garments of one particular style are produced in various sizes and colors. Both sociological and economical factors are responsible for this shift in buying habits. Fashion LESSON DEPARTMENT has become a swaying influence. Also, the demands of activities in fields outside the home bring with them not only a lack of time for making one's own clothing, but also a lack of sewing skill. The dresses on the market represent a large range of values, styles, designs, and prices. This makes it necessary to keep in mind the following points when buying a dress: (1) Is the style and color in fashion? Does the garment suit the individual's need and figure? (2) Does it fit correctly or can alterations be made? (3) Is the workmanship durable and neat? (4) Is the quality of the fabric suited to the purpose of the dress? (5) Is the price equal to the value of the garment and will it fit into the budget? The length of service expected from a garment and the kind of wear it will receive should determine the style to be purchased and the quality of material and workmanship. We can afford to pay more for a dress that we expect to wear for work for two years than for an evening dress that will only be worn half a dozen times. Good quality dresses last longer, look better, and are more comfortable to wear. When the family budget provides for a large wardrobe, fashion may be the important consideration in the selection. When the budget limits expenditures for clothing, as it does in most cases, durability becomes more important. Yet no matter how beautiful the material and workmanship, if a garment is not cut along lines suited to the person wearing it, she is not becomingly dressed. Though the fabric and color are excellent, if a dress is out of date the wearer is not stylishly 783 dressed. If dresses must be worn a long time, it pays to lean toward conservatism in the choice of design, color, and materials. There are five size ranges in women's dresses: misses sizes?from 12 to 20; junior sizes?from 11 to 19; women sizes?from 36 to 44; half sizes?from 16 1/2 to 2614; and stout sizes?from 38 1/2 to 521 1/4. Misses sizes are adapted to the normal, mature figure of a young woman. Junior sizes are for the shorter, girlish figure with small bust and relatively larger hips. Women's sizes are adapted to the tall, mature woman with full hips, bust, and arms. Half sizes, or little women's sizes as they are sometimes called, fit the shorter woman and are relatively fuller in the hips. They are also shorter from shoulder to waist and fuller in the arms. Actually, this size range fits more women properly than does any other size range. Stout sizes fit the very tall, big woman with large bust and hips. In spite of the various size ranges just mentioned, one needs only to try on dresses to see that manufacturers place their own interpretations upon these sizes, and so when shopping a person will find garments of various sizes marked the same size. In the manufacture of garments, skimping is sometimes practiced in order to cut costs. Because of the variation in the size of garments marked the same size, it is necessary to try them on to be sure of fit. The purchaser should make sure that there is room enough for sitting, reaching, and bending. She should learn when alterations can be successfully made and when this cannot be done. She should demand that the dress carry informative labeling,. And should buy from stores that will replace defective merchandise and make good guaranteed items. It is only by complaints and consumer demands that retailers and manufacturers can be made to realize the type of merchandise. Consumers want and the type they will not tolerate. Consumers must assume a large responsibility for the kind of goods that is placed on the market. THE selection of coats involves the same problems as the selection of dresses, plus some others. 'The fabric of the coat, lining, and interlining must be considered. Napped fabrics may wear off. Tweeds, homespuns, and some weaves shed dust and wrinkles and maintain a tailored appearance. 'lhe "Virgin Wool" label is important to the coat buyer interested in quality and wear. Examine the wrong side of the material. Sleazy, loosely-woven materials will not wear well. Cotton mixed with wool will require more care and pressing. Lining materials receive harder wear than dress materials. Whether silk or rayon, they may be either good or poor quality. Weighted silk linings are a waste of money. Rayon linings that are guaranteed to wear the life of the garment are a good buy. The manufacturer would not be willing to make such a claim on inferior fabrics. For maximum warmth, interlinings should be of wool. However, cotton flannels also increase warmth. Weight in coats is not an index of warmth. The interlining should be cut with sufficient fullness to prevent binding, yet not cause bulging. It should be firmly joined to the outer part of the coat. Though good materials are found in a coat, if the cut is not right and the workmanship good, the coat will not hold its shape. In higher priced coats much of the construction is done by hand. With these factors as guideposts in the selection of ready-to-wear articles, it must be remembered that personal reactions need to be considered. It may be more important to the high school girl to have a larger number of less expensive dresses than one or two more expensive ones. This must be decided by the individual.. The thing that is important is that you get the best you can for the price you pay. Suggested Activities 1. Have women show samples of wellfitted and poorly-fitted dresses. 2. If possible, bring women's dresses which illustrate the various size ranges. 3. Analyze dresses, picking out points of quality. Discuss what should be expected from dresses purchased at the various price levels. 4. Discuss labels found on dresses and their value. 5. Bring coats or examine those already on hand to show what can be expected in coats purchased at various price levels. Compare fit, workmanship, material, and style. NVA 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1941