Literature Humor In Life And Literature Lesson 5 Some Humorous Characters (Tuesday, February 17, 1942) "Mark Twain for the last ten years of his life sat on a golden throne as a crowned King of Humor."?Stephen Leacock Lesson Topics Review of last lesson Humor of character Outstanding humorous characters in literature Review of Last Lesson In lesson four, the nature and purpose of satire were discussed. It was pointed out that the purpose of many of the greatest masterpieces of satire is to reform. In this connection, the work of the great Greek comedian Aristophanes was considered, emphasis being placed on his wish to call the attention of his fellow countrymen to the weaknesses and the vices which were destroying the glory of Greece. Others who wrote with the same purpose?that of reform?were mentioned: Shakespeare, Moliere, Chaucer, Swift, as well as some of the more recent essayists and playwrights. Humor arising from incongruous situations was discussed and illustrations were given from actual life and from literature. Humor of Character Just as humor growing out of situation is of a more advanced or intellectual type than that resting upon strange uses of words or unusual combinations of ideas and facts, so humor of character is higher than that of situation, A humorous character is one who has traits or characteristics?physical or mental? which do not logically go together. Again we come to the fundamental element in all humor, that of the incongruous. We expect a huge man to have a deep voice. If we hear an effeminate protest from a giant, we laugh. If a delicate woman exhibits strong masculine characteristics, again we are struck with the paradox. Aristophanes makes Dionysus (or Bacchus) a humorous character in The Frogs by representing him as small, "pot-bellied," and dressed in cheap grandeur. In addition to the ridiculousness of the physical appearance, he makes him cowardly compared to his slave, and at times with less sense and wit. These characteristics are out of keeping with the usual conception of a god. The modern drama, Amphitryon, popular recently on the New York stage, has the same type of humorous characters. We are amused to seek the Greek gods and godesses in the guise of everyday mortals, exhibiting ordinary human emotions and resorting to common-place trickeries to achieve their desires. Sometimes the humor of a character lies in his unusual manner of speech, his pet phrases repeated Page 785 786 over and over, or in some habit or attitude which the author emphasizes. In the play You Can't Take It With You, each character has some eccentricity which makes him humorous and adds to the humor of the situations in the play and to the humor of the satire the drama embodies; for example, there is the mother with her desire to be a writer simply because a typewriter had been left by mistake at the home, and the daughter with her passion for dancing whenever she moves. Josh Billings, Mr. Dooley,. The Autocrat, from The Autocrat of the. Breakfast Table, Uncle Remus, The Spectator, Sir Roger de Coverley are all humorous characters as well known to many readers as are real people. Mr. Dooley is the creation of Finley Peter Dunne, an Irish-American journalist of Chicago. Mr. Dooley was a great favorite of a generation back, a philosopher with an Irish brogue, who gave delight because. Of his humorous way of talking and the quaintness of his views. A few lines from "Mr. Dooley on the Philippines" will give an idea of his character. "I know what I'd do if I was Mack (McKinley)," said Mr. Hennessy. "I'd histe a flag over the Phillipeens an' I'd take in the whole lot iv thim." "An' yet," said Mr. Dooley, "It is not more thin two months since ye learned whether they were islands or canned goods.... Suppose ye was standin' at the corner iv State Street an' Archey R-road, wud ye ask to know what car to take to get to th' Philippeens? If yer son Packy was to ask ye where the Ph'lippeens is, cud ye give him any good idea whether they was in Rooshia or jus' west iv the thracks?... Wan iv the worst things about this here war is the way its makin' puzzles fr our poor tired heads." Josh Billings is the pseudonym him to establish himself 

 ?NOVEMBER, 1941

 for Henry W. Shaw who lived from 1818 to 1885. His education was cut short in his sophomore year when he was expelled from Hamilton College for removing the clapper from the chapel bell. He wandered about the country for a number of years doing odd jobs, then he began to write "pieces" for newspapers. 'Through this activity he met Artemus Ward who helped "qn the world of funny men." He began giving humorous lectures, patterning both his publicity and his performances upon Ward's own technique. One of his favorite lectures was on "Skim Milk." He gave it hundreds of times. Among the group of humorous characters of the Mr. Dooley and Josh Billings type, so popular in America during the period of the Civil War, one was supreme. That was Artemus Ward, whose real name was Charles Farrar Browne (1834-1867). Mr. Browne did not create a fictitious character as Dunne and Shaw did, but retained his own identity. Critics say it is impossible to separate his work from his personality, for the two go together. Someone has said that "around his memory a loving world twined a garland of affection as for a lost child." That he was a favorite of Abraham Lincoln has already been mentioned, and reference has been made to one of his chapters which Lincoln read to his cabinet on the morning of September 22, 1862, before presenting to them the important Emancipation Proclamation. This incident illustrates the place of humorous literature in the lives of great men and the place of Ward as a humorous character. The LESSON DEPARTMENT chapter from the new book which Ward had sent the President was entitled "High-handed Outrage at Utica," from which a few lines have already been quoted in Lesson 2. Artemus Ward, with a method all his own, was tremendously successful as a platform entertainer. He not only traveled through the United States with his show, but went to Europe where he was given a triumphant reception. Great Humorous Characters of Literature The characters mentioned above in connection with the humor arising out of character are not all truly characters of literature. Most of them are the authors themselves more or less fictionized. But in the literature of the world, there are a number of great humorous characters with whom every person of education and culture should be acquainted, just as they should know the great romantic and tragic characters in literature. To know Ulysses, Achilles, Iphigenia, Media, Oedipus, Helen of Troy, Faust, Marguerite, Hamlet, Othello, Ophelia, Polonius, Desdemona, Lear, Kent, Cordelia, Portia, Shylock, Orlando, Jaques, Tartuffe, Adam Bede, Sidney Carton, Becky Sharp, and other characters that literature stands ready to present to you is like knowing a host of interesting people who enrich your lives, amuse you, and add happiness to your days. A few of the humorous characters, important to know, have already been mentioned?Gargantua, created by Rabelais; Falstaff, presented by Shakespeare; and some others. But they have companions who are equally worth knowing. Madame Malaprop 787 in Sheridan's delightful comedy, The Rivals, will always make you chuckle; just as Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair is the epitome of all scheming women, so Mrs. Malaprop is the embodiment of all those halfeducated, self-satisfied individuals who, in attempting to show off their superiority, make themselves ridiculous through their misuse of their mother tongue. She is famous for (quoting her own words) her "'oracular tongue and nice derangement of epitaphs." One of the characters in the play calls her "the old weather-beaten she-dragon whose ridiculous vanity makes her dress up her coarse features and deck her dull chat with hard words which she doesn't understand." To this indictment she cries: "There sir! An attack on my language... An aspersion upon my parts of speech.... If I reprehend anything in this world it is the use of my oracular tongue." She says her niece is as headstrong as "an allegory on the banks of the Nile." In commending a suitor to Lydia, she says, "He's so well bred... So full of alacrity and adulation... His phisogonmy so grammatical!" Excited that her plans are not working out, she exclaims, "Here's fine suicide, paracide, and salivation going on in the fields, and Sir Anthony not to be found to prevent the antistrophe." She tells Lydia that someone else can inform her of the "perindiculars." Another speech is, "Come, gitls, this gentlemen will exhort us; come, sir, you're our envoy?lead the way. We'll precede." One of her most humorous speeches is that in which she gives her views on the ideal education for a young girl. "I would by no means wish a daughter of mine to be a progeny of learning; I don't think so much learning becomes a young woman. For instance, I would never let her meddle with Greek or Hebrew, or algebra, or simony, or fluxions, or patadoxes, or such inflammatory branches of learning?neither would it be necessary for her to handle any of your mathematical, astronomical, diabolical instruments. But, Sir Anthony, I would send her, at nine years old, to a boarding school in order to learn a little ingenuity and artifice. Then, sir, she should have a supercilious knowledge in accounts;... And as she grew up, I would have her instructed in geometry, that she might know something of the contagious countries;... But above all, Sir Anthony, she should be mistress of orthodoxy, that she might not misspell and mispronounce words so shamefully as girls usually do; and likewise that she might reprehend the true meaning of what she is saying.... This, Sir Anthony, is what I would have a woman know...?." To be fully appreciated, any of the great characters in literature must be seen through the entire novel or play which presents them. We can only know Ruggles by reading Harry Leon Wilson's Ruggles of Red Gap (or seeing the movie based on it). We can only know how funny Mr. Jeeves is by following him entirely through the situations E. P. Wodehouse has invented for him. The same is true of Falstaff, Mr. Pickwick, Don Quixote, Monsieur Jourdain, Tartarin; in fact, any of the humorous characters it would delight us to know. Only a few points can be given here in the hope that a fuller acquaintance will be made with them later. Mr. Pickwick has been mentioned before; space will allow little more to be said of him. One critic points out that by comsummate art, Dickens sends Pickwick walking through life conveying with him the contrast between life as it might be and life as it is. Through his humor as well as his pathos, Dickens did much to remove the injustices and cruelties of his day by bringing about more humane legislation. He wrote with intense social purpose in all of his novels. The humor in the character of Pickwick lies largely in the incongruities of his character. He thinks he is a great scientist in his discoveries and in his manner of writing up his observations. But there is only emptiness back of his pomp of scholarship. Then, too, his solemn manner in all that. He does is out of keeping with his appearance. He maintains this manner always, even when he puts his hat over his nightcap and bows himself ceremoniously out of Miss Witherfield's room, which he had entered by mistake and where he had gone to bed. Likewise, when he is giving Mr. Magnus detailed procedure on how to propose, his solemnity and dignity help to make what he does laughable. Pickwick's character grows through the various adventures he encounters. Mr. Leacock says that at first he is almost a burlesque figure. "Then as his amiability leads him to misadventure after misadventure he becomes stronger and more real, until he finally shows great strength, but is none the less humorous when he goes to jail rather than marry Mrs. Bardall. Through all the unfolding of his character there is a warm glow of human kindness. It is the ability to incorporate this quality into his humor which makes Dickens one of the greatest comic writers of the world.