[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall January 21,1899,
with Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Guide us O, Thou Great Jehovah.”
Prayer by Counselor Webb. Singing, “O
say what is truth.” Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Sister Annie T. Hyde stated that
President Horne was not able to be present
but that Sister Priscilla J. Riter had been
chosen to be superintendent of the nurses
who had been trained for Relief Society
work by Dr. Roberts, that President Horne
had sent a letter suggesting that a com-
mittee be appointed to solicit for bedding
etc., also to visit the drug stores and see
what discount they would give on drugs, or
anything that might be needed in their line.
Said, “Sister Riter will engage the nurse,
and she will go out under her direction and
report to her when through. Sister Riter
will visit the sick at least once.” Sister
Hyde advised the nurses to make them-
selves competent and desirable help.
	Sister Riter addressed the meeting a few
moments. Said she felt it a great responsi-
bility that had been placed upon her, and
also wished to have the support of the
nurses as she expected to give them hers.
Advised them to be united and forgiving.
Told them she did not want them to be
overburdened, but come and talk over with
her any dissatisfaction that might exist
while in her employ.
	Dr. Roberts hoped the strong bond of
love would exist between Sister Riter and
the nurses that existed between herself and
these students. Hoped all would start out
on a two years’ mission, and do anything
that was necessary for the comfort of the
sick, rise above annoyances and criticisms.
"It is understood the sick can have prefer-
ences and express them in regard to the
nurse, but no nurse is expected to go out
without being under the direction of Sister
Riter.”
	A sewing meeting was appointed for
February 3, in the Relief Society hall in
the 14th ward.
	Counselor Stevenson praised the Lord
that the sick could thus be provided with
nurses. She felt that the hand of the Lord
was in this work. Desired all to pray for
the recovery of President Horne.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Sister Clara C. Cannon.

Minutes of Semi-monthly meeting held
February 11, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding. Sing-
ing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Sister E. Paul. Singing, “O, awake my
slumbering minstrel. Minutes read and
approved.
	Counselor Stevenson said she was sorry
President Horne was not able to come to-
day. Spoke of having visited the Relief
Society conference of Pocatello. Though
they did not have the advantages we have
they seemed as if they were advancing fast-
er than we were in some things. They

[Column 2]
were surrounded by some who were not of
our faith; had the privilege of converting
some. Advised mothers to. take the Juve-
nile and good literature, and exhorted them
to be humble and God fearing.
	Sister Barnes gave some good, motherly
advice. Sister Julia C. Howe said we met
to be strengthened by the spirit of God, we
were surrourided bymany temptations,
especially the young people, and it is neces-
sary to put safe guards around them. She
often wondered what she would do without
the Relief Society, thought it so necessary
that our young people should attend their
meetings, and also to interest the young
ladies in the Relief Society. Spoke of the
great responsibilities of mothers in rearing
their children.
	Sister Liddle realized that her greatest
trial had proved to be her greatest blessing.
Exhorted all to be patient and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things. He is
angry with none except those who will not
acknowledge his hand in all things.
	Sister Rawlings bore a faithful testimony.
Congregation sang “All is well.”
	Sister L. D. Alder advised mothers to
pray and have prayers with their children.
Prayer is the corner stone, nothing will
make us happier than visiting our mar-
ried childrens’ homes and seeing them meet
around the family altar night and morning.
Said we must be careful and not do any-
thing that brings trial upon the missionaries
as anything and everything that is done in
Utah is exaggerated and misrepresented in
the papers and carried to different parts of
the earth.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown testified to the
power of prayer, made other good remarks.
	Sister Paul said words could not express
the gratitude of her heart for theGospel, she
was happy in her religion. Asked the sis-
ters to pray for their enemies and they
would not have power to do any harm.
	The congregation sang “Awake ye
defenders of Zion.” Other sisters bore
testimony and Sister Jane James said she
prayed for her enemies, for she knew they
must suffer.
	Sister Butterworth crossed the plains and
helped to drive cattle, but was happy
through it all, as she knew she was com-
ing to Zion. Sister Pond said she wanted
fo bear, a testimony of tithing. When her
husband was on a mission she paid her
tithing and the Lord had greatly blessed
her. Spoke of the inspiration of a Relief
Society president in Logan in regard to
Temple work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson spoke of
the experiences of the Saints, how it was
necessary we should have these ex-
periences. Told the Saints they must not
grieve too much over sorrows, it was not
pleasing to the Lord. Said these meetings
were organized for retrenchment, and let us
retrench in everything. When we have
sickness let us not call for doctors, but ask
the Lord to help us.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology, Benediction Annie T. Hyde.
