[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: VISIT TO CALIFORNIA. | Author: Unknown]

VISIT TO CALIFORNIA.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	The souls of the Saints, especially the
sisters of the Relief Society throughout this
mission, have been made to rejoice by
reason of the fact that we have received a
visit from Sister Jane S. Richards of Ogden.
During the latter part of December Sister
Richards accompanied her son, Hon. C. C.
Richards, and wife who were seeking health
and rest and came to Los Angeles. While
there Sister Richards visited the Relief
Society of the branch of the Saints of that
city and had an opportunity of seeing a lit-
tle how they were getting along, and of in-
structing them along the line of Relief
Society work as it is carried on in Zion.
	We have a good society in Los Angeles.
Sister Woollacott, now visiting her daugh-
ter in Salt Lake City, is the president and
she has a good company of officers and
members considering the size and strength
of the branch. They are devoted to the
work of the Lord and are faithful workers
in the society. The president is a good
leader among women and by her wise and
careful management and the hearty support
rendered by the society they have always
got money in the treasury with which to
assist the needy. Sister Richards did much
to encourage and strengthen them in their
noble work.
	About the 24th of January President
Franklin D. Richards honored us by a
visit to this mission and arrived in San
Diego, Sister Richards having reached there
a few days before. On the 26th they to-
gether attended the Relief Society meeting
which convened in the house of Brother
Charles H. Hoag, the branch president,
and though they were few in number, yet
when President Jewel had conducted the
opening services and Sister Richards pro-
ceeded in that wondrously kind and plea-
sant way so peculiar to her to tell them of
the trials and afflictions through which the
Saints had to pass in the days of the Prophet
Joseph and the early days of Utah, of the
blessings of the Lord that had been show-
ered down upon them as a reward for their
obedience and devotion, and of the present
standard of usefulness they have attained
through their untiring labors in the great
work, the sisters listened with rapt atten-
tion the while, the love of God enkindled
in their hearts, filling their souls with light
and joy and causing a sense of deep appre-
ciation of the Gospel to fill them such as
they had never before experienced. The
spirit of the Almighty accompanied the
words of dear Sister Richards in a most re-
markable way as she dwelt upon the earlier
scenes of the Church. President Richards
spoke words of comfort and blessing to all.
	On the Sabbath besides attending regular
services in the hall Sister Richards met with
the Primary Association at the home of
Sister Gabrelson, and there after the exer-
cises of the little ones, which were indeed
most creditable both to the children and to
Sister Buehorn who has charge of them,
she talked to these little ones until she won
a place in their dear little hearts that she
will retain while they live.
	After spending about ten days in that re-
nowned but greatly over estimated health
resort, San Diego, the party consisting of
President F. D. Richards, Sister Jane S.
Richards and their son Charles and wife re-
turned to Los Angeles, the latter on their
way to Utah, while the president and wife

[Column 2]
remained and attended the meetings of the
Saints on the Sabbath at 245 1/2 South Spring
Street. This branch through the untiring
efforts of the Elders who have labored here
and the blessings of the Lord has grown
and increased in numbers and is our strong-
est branch in the mission, numbering about
one hundred and thirty members. There
is a good Relief Society, Mutual Improve-
ment Association and Sabbath School, all
in splendid condition.
	Brother and Sister Richards attended the
Sabbath School and the meeting that fol-
lowed, it being fast day, and mingled their
testimonies with those of the Saints, and
their soul-inspiring words were as precious
gems to the Saints, many of whom had
never before listened to the sound of the
voice of a living Apostle.
	When the visit at Los Angeles was ended
the party took train for San Francisco, and
the headquarters of the California mission
became the resting place of our beloved
Sister Jane S. Richards and her husband.
Be assured, dear editor, we all regarded
ourselves as highly honored in having the
privilege of entertaining such distinguished
persons as an Apostle of the Lord and his
precious life companion. This may sound
somewhat strange to some of the readers of
the “Exponent,” but if they had to spend
their time among the wicked and ungodly
in the midst of a mess of man made re-
ligions, the principal elements of which are
doubt and uncertainty, they would learn,
perhaps, as we have, to appreciate the
privilege of beholding a servant of the true
and living God, and of listening to the
words of life and salvation from his mouth.
	The Relief Society of the branch in this
city, of which Sister Rattenbery is the
president, convened on Thursday at 3 p. m.
at the mission house, and after some local
matters had been attended to Sister Rich-
ards addressed the meeting, and I would
that we could give a verbatim report of her
speech and that of President Richards who
followed, if for no other purpose than that
we might have them to refer to here, for
they sparkled with gems of thought crystal-
ized into words which as they fell upon the
ear caused the souls of all that heard them
to thrill with joy.
	A surprise party was projected by the
sisters so that the president and his wife
could see how the San Francisco Saints con-
ducted such gatherings. On Thursday
evening about 8 p. m. the mission house
was besieged by the attacking party which
soon gained an entrance and filled the house
to its utmost capacity. Over a hundred
were present. A program of songs, reci-
tations, etc., and then a speech from Presi-
dent Richards, smiling faces, happy hearts
and love abounded.
	Brother and Sister Richards visited the
homes of some of the Saints, Sister Collins
of this city, Sister Sumner of Oakland, and
then took their departure for Sacramento
where on Sunday the 12th they met with
the Sabbath School and forenoon meeting,
and then at 3 p m. with the Relief Society
at the home of Sister Smith, 405 15th St.
Sister Fanny H. Thackham, the president,
in an appropriate manner welcomed the
visitors from Zion. The sisters all testified
to their love of the Gospel, and of their de-
termination to remain steadfast to the end.
Sister Richards strewed pearls of pricely
value in her speech, among them such as
will be remembered by all who were pres-
ent for many a day, while President Rich-
ards spoke forth words of encouragement

[Column 3]
and blessing. In the evening at our regu-
lar hall President Richards was the speak-
er and he delivered a good sermon to Saints
and investigators who had gathered in to
hear the word of God. On the day follow-
ing President and Sister Richards took their
leave for their home in Ogden.
	We in this land of sunshine and flowers,
of drouth and earthquake, of Christian
churches and infidel congregations, of
gigantic ideas and small souled Christian
ministers, deeply appreciate a visit from the
tried and trusted leaders of the true Church
of Christ.
				HATTIE M. NYE.


