[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: HERBERT KITCHENER | Author: E. S. W]

HERBERT KITCHENER

	Away in far off Africa is a vast stretch of
country known as “The Soudan.” It lies en-
tirely within the tropics and reaches right
across the continent from the Atlantic Ocean
to the Red Sea. While there are, of course,
imaginary limits north and south, its actual
boundaries so far have not been really fixed.
	A large portion of Africa has come under
the “spheres of influence” of different
European nations. By sphere of influence
is meant that “large areas of land in Africa
are recognized as under the control of
European powers. * * * It designates the
region that may be occupied and developed
by the power for which it is named.”
	This great region of country, the Sou-
dan, is largely inhabited, not only by its
native tribes of the negro race but by wild
tribes of fanatical Arabs. For many years
a civilizing influence was brought to bear
upon this wild country, and at last in 1881
Soudan was under a civilized government.
To be sure there were many imperfections
in the administration of affairs, as of neces-
sity there must be under the circumstances.
But trade flourished. Khartoum, the capi-
tal, occupied an important position at the
junction of the White and the Blue Nile.
It became a business center for European
as well as Egyptian commercial firms.
Trade was facilitated by steamers plying
the river. Communication with the outer
world was maintained by post and by tele-
graph, and just when all seemed going well
a war cloud gathered and burst, ravaging
the country and spreading devastation.
	General Gordon, the famous English
soldier, had been Governor-General of the
Soudan for two years, 1877-1879, and dur-
ing that time he had stamped out the slave
trade. As a consequence the slave dealers
felt oppressed. In 1880 Gordon left the
Soudan to act as adviser of the Chinese
government in its relations with Russia.
It was during his absence the strife broke
out.
	We must now for a moment turn our
attention to Egypt. In 1876 the Khedive
of Egypt who had been working to get his
country conducted on modern principles,
found himself practically a bankrupt. He
had to have help from foreign nations.
French and English capitalists loaned large
sums of money, and England and France
sent experts to try and save something and
help “carry on the country.” In 1878 an
Englishman and a Frenchman were ap-
pointed to high offices in the government.
In April of the same year they were dis-
missed by the Khedive. Two months
later the Khedive was deposed by the

[Column 2]
Turkish government, and France and Eng-
land were again represented in the govern-
ment. “In 1882 Arabi Bey fomented an
uprising, the object of which was to restore
Egypt to the Egyptians.” With the help
of the British fleet and the British army they
were successful. “Then France refused to
take any part in carrying on the govern-
ment, so it devolved upon Great Britain.”
And thus France lost her hold upon Egypt.
	It was during this civil strife in Egypt
that the revolt began in the Soudan, July
1881, led by Mohammed Ahmed. The
Mohammedans are represented as being
superstitious, bigoted and fanatical. They
have long looked forward to a Mahdi, the
literal meaning of which is “guided or
directed one.” “According to Mohamme-
dan belief a spiritual and temporal ruler des-
tined to appear on the earth during the last
days. Some sects hold that the Mahdi has
appeared and in concealment awaits the
time of his manifestation. There have
been a number of pretended Mahdis, of
whom the last of importance was this
Mohammed Ahmed.”
	He was a man of the people, of obscure
birth or origin, but was, or pretended to be,
a descendent of the great prophet. He is
described as a great student with probably
a natural religious bent and possessed of in-
tense cunning. So it is “not difficult to im-
agine how easily he drifted into the lead of
one of the most fanatical movements, to
which Easterners are so prone.” This belief
of the Mohammedans is compared to the
Jewish belief in the coming of the Messiah.
	When the people of the Soudan were left
to themselves the enforced good behavior of
the rulers changed and the people felt op-
pressed and unjustly dealt with. The slave
traders were glad to be rid of Gordon’s rule.
The time was ripe for a revolt and a
leader awaiting his opportunity. 	
	This is the story of the beginning of the
siege by the Mahdi. The people inspired
by religious fervor or fanaticism fought as
only such people can. Attempt after at-
tempt was made to crush this revolt, but
the Mahdi came off ever victorious. His
victories inspired the Soudanese with the
greatest enthusiasm and religious zeal, and
they believed they had indeed the expected
Mahdi. The British did what they could
to help the Egyptians, but the flood was
not checked. Gordon had reached Khar-
toum with a command, but by the fall of
Beehu he was completely shut in. He re-
mained at his post hoping against hope, un-
able to accomplish his heart’s desire to
crush the Mahdi. In England the people
were roused to fever heat and a relief ex-
pedition was sent to Gordon. This expedi-
tion had to fight the most bitter fights to get
to its destination, and arrived, alas, just too
late! Gordon had been most foully slain,
and England had to mourn the loss of a
great leader and many brave men. Gor-
don’s personal characteristics made him one
of the celebrities of the world. His death
occurred January 26, 1885. A statue to
him has been erected in Trafelgar square,
London. Khartoum, of course, fell before
the enemy, the city being destroyed.


[Column 1]
	“Although the Mahdi himself died in
June 1885, the movement he had originated
suffered no check. * * * By the end of
that year Mahdism reigned supreme
throughout the Soudan.” And even the
southern part of Egypt fell under that
power. But soon dissensions arose among
the Arabs. The Khalifa, successor to the
Mahdi, was a western Arab and treated the
easterners with cruelty. Things continued
in a turmoil until the spring of 1898, when
General Sir Horatio Herbert Kitchener having.
been put in command, he at the head of a
powerful army composed of British soldiers
and troops of the Khedive, completely
overcame and subdued the fanatical rebels.
His victory was a most brilliant one and
caused the greatest rejoicing throughout the
British Empire, and indeed throughout the
civilized world.
	Like many another brave British leader
Kitchener is an Irishman by birth. It is
said that “he is a soldier by inheritance, by
training and by instinct.” He is forty-
eight years of age, tall, measuring full six
feet, and with the swarthy complexion that
would be but natural after years of exposure
to the tropical sun. Most of his service
has been in the far East, and he has ac-
quired a remarkable knowledge of Moham-
medan languages and tribes. This knowl-
edge has been of great service to him at
times. The following story is told as an
instance:
	“Two Arab date sellers were arrested as
suspected spies and confined in the guard
tent. Shortly after a third Arab prisoner
was hastily bundled into the tent. An
animated jabbering ensured among the
three and in a few minutes, much to the
astonishment, of the sentry, the latest ar-
rival drew aside the doorway and stepped
out, remarking, ‘All right, sentry, I’m
going to the General.’ It was Kitchener.
Again only a few minutes passed when an
orderly hurried up and a spade was handed
to the two Arabs, who were marched out-
side the lines, ordered to dig their graves,
and were shot. They were spies, and
Kitchener had detected them.”
	The glory of Kitchener’s successful and
splendid expedition consisted as much in
the way the soldiers were cared for under
adverse circumstances, as in the wonderful
fighting.
	Oudurman, a little north of Khartoum, is
the successor to that fallen city. General
Gordon expressed a preference for having
the capital at Oudurman, or even a little
farther north on the right bank of the Nile,
as the location of Khartoum was very un-
healthy and the cost of making it healthy
would be very great. It was at Oudurman
that the Khalefa’s army met with such ter-
rible slaughter. His men came bravely
forth to meet Kitchener’s Anglo-Egyptian
troops, but owing to the machine guns of
the English the massacre, was great. The
number of men of the Khalifa left dead on
the field has been variously estimated at
from five to twenty thousand.
	In the earlier stages of Kitchener’s ex-
pedition it was seriously feared that the
French were preparing to cut across from
their holdings in western Soudan to a point
on the Nile above Khartoum, at or about
Fashoda, for the sake of preventing the
English from going any further. “The
seriousness of such a proposition can only
be understood when one remembers the
peculiar nature of the Nile. If the French
were in full possession even at so remote a
point as Fashoda, they could at any time

[Column 2]
they chose so divert the water as to ruin
the whole of Egypt, which owes its life to
the periodical overflow and to irrigation.”
	This Fashoda affair threatened strained
relations for a time between England and
France. But the French now disclaim it
as anything but a private exploring party,
that there was no disposition in any quarter
to oppose the further advance of the Eng-
lish. And it is further stated that when
Kitchener arrived at Fashoda he found
Major Marchand there with only seven or
eight white men and a handful of native
Africans.
	It has been estimated that the victory of
the United States over Spain resulted in the
material improvement of 8,000,000 people in
the Phillipines, and 2,000,000 or more in
the West Indies.
	Kitchener’s splendid expedition brought
even greater succor and blessings to the
million of human beings in Eastern Soudan.
The fanatical movement of the Mahdi’s
resulted in the absolute closing up of one of
the most prosperous regions of the whole
African continent, a region at that time oc-
cupied by no less than 12,000,000 people.
This population was reduced to about one
half, agriculture and trade destroyed and
the country desolated. Happier and more
prosperous times may now be looked for.
There seems to be nothing in the Way
now of Cecil Rhodes great project of build-
ing a through railroad from Capetown to
Cairo.
	Kitchener is unmarried and will have no
married officers under him. He is a strict
disciplinarian, of impassive countenance.
And while his manners do not win the love
of his men, he has their profoundest respect
and sincerest admiration. He is described
as quiet but clever, and perhaps his severe
life and strict necessities have made him
apparently cold and stern. At all events
he is a great general and the pride of the
British people.
	After the victory in the Soudan, Kitchen-
er visited England accompanied by some of
his English and Egyptian officers. They
were received with unbounded enthusiasm,
being banqueted and toasted and in a
general way made to feel the great esteem
and appreciation in which they were held.
						E. S. W.


