[Vol57 | October 1970 | Page 750 | General Feature | Cooking With Peanut Butter Julia | Read Clark]
nd peanut butter. Add both kinds of sugar, beat well. Beat in eggs. Mix flour, salt, and soda. Stir into peanut butter mixture. Make dough into small balls. Put on baking pan. Flatten with a fork. Bake at 375° (moderate oven) 10 to 15 minutes. PEANUT BUTTER FINGERS This candy is nutritious and delicious. It keeps well, travels well, and freezes well. Yield 75 Yield 450 1% lb. Butter, melted 5% Ibs. 1% c. Peanut butter 5' c. 1 qt. Rolled oats or rolled wheat 1 gal. 1 tbsp. Vanilla Y% C. 2% Ibs. Powdered sugar 11 Ibs. 1 Ib. Raisins 4 lbs. 3 c. Coconut 3 ats. 1% c. Chopped peanuts (optional) 1% qts. Mix. Shape into finger size portions. Drop into chocolate glaze. CHOCOLATE GLAZE Yield 75 Yield 450 2% c. Chocolate chips llc. (semi-sweet) 12 sticks paraffin 10 sticks Melt together and turn balls in chocolate with fork. Turn balls in fingers and dip in chocolate with fork and drain on waxed paper.

Cooking With Peanut Butter BAKED CHICKEN WITH CRISPY PEANUT BUTTER COATING Serve 10 Serve 100 frying chicken (cut up) 4 Ibs. 40 Ibs. Flour iwc, 4%, Cc. Eges 1 14 peanut butter YC. 3% c. Salt 1 tsp. 5 tbsp. Pepper Z tsp. 2 tsp. Milk lc. 4°, ©. Dry bread crumbs lc. 10% c. Melted butter or oil % Cc. 3% c.. Dip chicken pieces in flour. Mix together eggs, peanut butter, salt, and pepper. Gradually add milk and stir well to blend. Dip chicken in peanut butter mixture and then in crumbs. Place chicken pieces on greased baking pans. Don't overlap. Drizzle oil over chicken pieces. Bake 375° for 45 minutes or until tender. This chicken is attractive and juicy, with a delicate nut flavor. PEANUT BUTTER FRENCH TOAST 12 c. Peanut butter % c. Milk 8 slices bread _ Va tsp. Salt 2 eggs margarine or butter Spread peanut butter on 4 slices of bread; put other slices of bread on top to make 4 sandwiches. Mix eggs, milk, and salt. Dip sandwiches in egg mixture. Brown sandwiches in a little fat over low heat on both sides. Serves 4. PEANUT BUTTER BROWNIES I Yield 25 Yield 100 Y% c. Shortening lc. %4 Cc. Cocoa 3c. '% c. Butter 2 c. (1 Ib.) ¥Y2 c. Peanut butter 2c. 12 c. Sugar 62 at. 4 eggs 6 eggs 2 tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. 1 c. Flour. 4c. Flour Y2 tsp. Baking powder 2 tsp. Y2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Melt shortening over low heat, add cocoa and mix until smooth. Let cool. Cream butter and peanut butter, add sugar gradually, and continue creaming until mixture is well blended. Add eggs and vanilla and mix. Add cocoa mixture. Mix to blend. Pour into greased baking pans to a depth of % inch. Bake at 350° for 20 minutes. Cover with chocolate chips and let melt and spread for icing. Frosting Yield 25 Yield 100 ¥2 c. Softened butter 2c. + 2 tbsp. Y2 c. Evaporated milk 2c. + 2 tbsp. Y2 c. Cocoa 2c. + 2 tbsp. 3 c. Confectioner's sugar 12 c. Y2 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Combine softened butter with evaporated milk. Add cocoa and beat vigorously. Add powdered sugar and stir until ingredients are well blended, then beat very hard. Add vanilla and salt. Spread on brownies. 751 Edythe K. Watson I Member, General Board of Relief Society Relief Society sisters are thrifty. Give them some scraps of gay colorful fabrics and they will surprise you. So it was with the Relief Society sisters of the Ogden Seventy-third Ward, Weber Heights Stake, when a thoughtful sister donated her accumulation of lovely, fine quality material scraps from her sewing days. Sister Karma Dixon, President of the Seventy-third Ward, gives credit to Sister Alexia. Smith and her assistant, Sister Lettie Revill, for the basic idea and design of this clever small quilt. LINING MATERIAL The quilt measures 45 by 60 inches. A very thin material, such as a used sheet, is used as a backing for the scraps or "crazy blocks." MAKING THE BLOCKS Any size fabric scrap may be used for a "crazy block," with the exception of very large pieces. Unusual shapes add interest to the overall pattern of the quilt. Sister Dixon recommends choosing pieces within the same color range or those of complementary colors for the individual quilts. Let the size 752 PHOTOGRAPH BY J M. HESLOP and shape of the blocks create the quilt design. Each piece is applied to the thin backing and pinned in place with every visible raw edge turned under, excepting the selvage. COMPLETING THE QUILTS When the backing is covered by the blocks in a pattern to your liking, sew by machine around each block with a medium zigzag stitch using the same colored thread for all blocks. Flannel is recommended for the back of the quilt. A print or figured pattern is most practical. A light batting is used as center padding. Sister Smith used three one-pound bats for four quilts. A one-pound bat will do nicely if you are making just one.