[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | January | Issue: 7 | Title: General Relief Society Conference | Author: E. B. W]

GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the General
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Wednesday, October 5,
1904, commencing at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.


[Column 1]
Meeting opened with singing, “Come, let
us anew.” Prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
	President B. W. Smith gave the sisters
an informal, sympathetic greeting, express-
ing her delight in seeing so many of the 
sisters present, and especially those from a
distance, knew how hard it was for them to
come so far, and hoped they would feel re-
paid; she loved the Relief Society and the
work the sisters were engaged in, there is
no better work in the Church, and we do
help the brethren, and the Lord blesses us
in our labors in what we have to do for the
sick and the afflicted; “may we increase in
love and have patience with each other, and
may we have strength to do all that is re-
quired of us.”
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was so re-
joiced to see so many assembled and felt
she knew them all; it was like seeing mem-
bers of her own family; “these sisters are
so self-sacrificing and work so hard to do
what is necessary to promote the work of
the Society. The nurses work is doing
so much good;” and she hoped to see the
time when every young girl would have
this work included in her education for
motherhood, and she felt also that the moth-
er’s work in the society was helping all to
progress and improve; “this is a day of
progress and not a station where we stand
still.” She thought we should “mother”
the Mutual and Primary and we ahould
look after them and be one with them.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry felt
when she drew near to the audience she
seemed much better acquainted with the
sisters, and with those who come from a
distance, thought we should try to get
near to each other. She had been request-
ed to report some of her experiences while
away, and so forth, she had enjoyed visit-
ing the Relief Society and meeting the
Saints, had been in Chicago recently and
visited the Relief Society there, held a
meeting with the sisters before the regular
Sunday evening meeting; also in New York
in the meeting of the Relief Society, had an
excellent time there, she had never felt a
better spirit; said in Zurich, in Switzerland
there is an excellent young woman mis-
sionary, very faithful and energetic and also
in Berlin; there the sisters have a good Re-
lief Society the hall where they meet is
poor and not very large, but every seat was
filled and it was an interesting meeting, the
good spirit was manifest, and it was most
enjoyable. “I pray that we may have the
spirit of love and humility and be blest in
our labors that we may live near our Creat-
or and do what is right.”
	Stake reports were called for, beginning
with those far-off. President Mary L.
Woolf, of Cardston, gave an excellent,
though brief report of Alberta and Taylor
stakes; referred to the prosperity of the set-
tlements, in Canada and mentioned the new
wards farther north, Calvary, and Edmon-
ton, they had visited recently, all the or-
ganizations in Canada were in good condi-
tion.
	Counselor Mary A. Bagley reported Bear
Lake Stake, the society had recently built
two new houses and all was prosperous, re-
ferred to the aged president, Sister Julia P.
Lindsay, a veteran in the Church; over 80
years of age; she still visited the branches
in the Stake and attended to her duties in
the society.
	President C. C. Shepherd represented

[Column 2]
Beaver, was proud to mention they had a
granary in such ward and were doing good
work in other respects.
	Miss Emma Ramsey, one of the sweet
singers of Zion, favored the conference with
a solo, “Fear Not Ye For Israel,” Elder
Tracy Y. Cannon accompanying her upon
the organ. The music was greatly appre-
ciated by all present.
	St. Joseph Stake was represented by
Sister Sarah T. B. Folley, she felt the soci-
ety work was making great progress in that
far away locality.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, of St.
George, made an eloquent address upon
practical matters, and zealously exhorted
the sisters to diligence and faithfulness.
	Cassia Stake was represented by Counsel-
or to Sister Haight, who gave a good re-
port of actual conditions.
	Counselor Mary A. Rich reported Fre-
mont Stake, spoke specially of the amount
of grain on hand in good condition.
	Sister Emma Wright, recently home from
New Zealand, gave an exceedingly interest-
ing account of the Relief Society work in
that far off land, she felt this work had
been a great blessing to the native sisters.
	Sister Lexia Harris from the City of Mex-
ico outlined the Relief Society work in that
far-famed city and suburbs, which was most
entertaining and encouraging, when one
realizes how far-reaching aud uplifting this
benevolent work is among the sisters in
whatever part of the world it is commenced.
	President Julia A. Richards of Malad
Stake spoke well of her labors and the great
desire the sisters had to improve in good
works, referred particularly to the Lamanite
sisters and the improvement among them
and their advancement in the organization.
	Maria Makaula spoke in the Hawaiian
language of the society at Iosepa and Sister
Julina L. Smith interpreted what she had
reported to the conference. The native sis-
ters in the Hawaiian colony were striving
in the same kind of charitable work as the
other sisters who had been more accustomed
to assist the poor and the sick.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing Doxology, and benediction was
offered by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Afternoon session, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding.
	Prof. C. J. Thomas and members of the
Temple choir were present and had charge
of the musical exercises.
	Conference opened with singing “Praise
to the man who communed with Jehovah,”
prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, sing-
ing, “How blest was the day when the
Prophet and Seer.”
	President B. W. Smith made a few open-
ing remarks, welcoming the large audience,
and expressing her pleasure that so many
were present, and announced the Treasurer
of the General Society, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, who in a few well-chosen words
also expressed the great pleasure it gave her
to see such a numerous congregation of the
women of the Latter day Saints, after which
she read the annual report of the 17th of
March donations and the disbursements,
and then stated the amount on hand for the
Woman’s Building.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that the report
as read be accepted, seconded by Sister
Julina L. Smith, and Sister Susan Grant
and carried unanimously.
	The Temple choir then rendered the
beautiful hymn, “O, Jesus, the Giver of all
we enjoy.”

[Column 3]
	Reports were then given from San Juan
Stake by President Mary N. Jones and from
Mexico Juarez Stake by Sister Elizabeth
Snow Ivins, both gave excellent accounts of
the work in the respective localities, that
were of great interest to those present.
	The choir sang Sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee’s hymn, “Daughters of Zi[-]n, the
Friends of the Poor.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a brief
sketch of her trip abroad and of the Quin-
quennial of the International Council and
Congress in Berlin she felt it a great privil-
ege to be at home after traveling 14,000
miles by land and sea; she testified that
there were many honest people in the world
yet, and that we should get rid of the idea
that they hate us, she stated that before go-
ing away she had been blessed by all the
General offieers of the Relief Society and by
Apostles George A. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, she realized the promises made to
her. She went direct from here to Boston
and attended the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution to which she
had been appointed a Delegate and Proxie
for the Regent of the Utah Society. She
had been nominated to speak at the Con-
gress in Berlin and was glad she arrived
early; when she first reached there she
called upon the President, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, and found her very pleas-
ant and was invited to the first entertain-
ment given by her, a breakfast, previous to
the opening of the Council, where she met
the most prominent women, and was subse-
quently invited by Mrs. Commandes to
take a ride in the Their Gardens; she was
invited to speak twice in the Congress, once
upon the Legislature, and she was one of
the few who could be heard in the large
hall; she only took the time given her;
those women are greatly interested in the
franchise, and anxious to learn of those who
enjoy these rights. The Baroness Von
Beswitch and Frau Maria Stritt had been
greatly interested that she had not only
voted, but been voted for; she also addressed
a large audience on Art, and among the
number present were artists, musicians and
poets, everywhere she was well received and
women were desirous of talking with her
and asking questions; she visited Paris and
the art galleries there, and many other cities
aud traveled almost continuously; in Zur-
ich she visited the Saints and missionaries
who were very much delighted to do all in
their power for her pleasure and on her re-
turn was invited by the Saints in New York
and attended meeting there; she had en-
joyed it all very much aud was glad to be
at home again.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, addressing the
conference said, she and Sister Dusenberry
sailed for Antwerp and on arriving went to
see the very quaint old Dutch town, saw
many grand old pictures, these fine old pic-
tures by the great Masters are everywhere
and especially those of the Savior are con-
spicuous, they were so wonderful and in all
the art galleries that one felt a sensation of 
solemnity, she enjoyed seeing and associat-
ing with the missionaries very much, had a
fine meeting in Zurich on the 4th of July;
it was a treat; Sister Dusenberry made the
boys a strawberry short cake that pleased
them very much. Sister Richards spoke of
the “Sacred Stairs,” crowds of people cling-
ing to them as they go up, and they be-
lieve if they do this their sins will be for-
given; Church of Maternity where chil-
dren are held up to kiss the toe of the vir-


gin, it is pitiful to see the women who are
so ignorant of the truth, she co[--]d not re-
peat all she saw; stated they had no serious
difficulty, were always treated with respect
and kindness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sisters Carrie S
Thomas, Maiy A. C. Lambert and Pris-
cilla Smith each spoke a few minutes on the
benefits of the Relief Society, and the bless-
ing attending those who labored therein.
	President Ann Walker reported Black-
foot Stake, the good work being done and
the interest taken in storing grain.
	President Alvira E. Steele, Bingham
Stake, she bad gone up there nineteen years
ago, when the country was new, reported it
was a good grain country, she scarcely
knew what could have been done if they
had not had the Relief Sceiety.
	President Celestia Y. Pack, Summit
Stake gave a definite report of the wards in
that locality, and the work done by the so-
ciety, the sisters there had been studying
the Women ot the Bible and it had been
quite satisfactory.
	Secretary E. B Wells made announce-
ments of meetings to be held, officers’
meetings, Peace meeting, Woman’s Council,
Primary, etc.
	Choir sang “Only a beam of sunshine,”
conference adjourned for six months, clos-
ing prayer by Sister Mary T Smith.
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
Continued from January <December> Number.
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Windeyer home, A
little mound in the churchyard was all that
remained to the parents of the frail child so
beloved, There was no word from Ed-
ward, and none from his young wife and
babe. Aunt Matilda stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Windeyer of household cares and
comfort her in her great affliction. Christ-
mas was drawing nigh, and she realized
how hard it would be for them all, remem-
bering that joyful Christmas a quarter of a 
century ago when Edward was born.
	Mr. Windeyer plunged deep into business
affairs, trying to drown his sorrow, but alas!
that was impossible.
	Years went by, and but few changes
came. Margaret lived on alone with the
little Ruth, who grew up a beautiful girl.
Some letters had come from Edward, tell-
ing of adventures and extended voyages;
but as he sailed from place to place, stop-
ping only at seaport towns, the tender
epistles of his faithful and devoted wife
never reached him He began to despair,
and at last concluded to write to his mother
for news of his wife and child. The mes-
sage never reached his wife, so unforgiving
was this proud, haughty woman Long
years afterwards, when little Ruth was
grown to womanhood and Margaret had by
her writing made for herself an honored
name, though a fictitious one, Fanny Hil-
lier, ever faithful to the family, learned
that Edward was dead, and she determined
to unravel the secret and see that justice
was done to the wife and child. Through
old Dr. Gray she heard that family trouble
had wrought so upon the Square that he
had not been himself for some time previ-
ous to his demise
	Fanny succeeded in winning the confid-
ence of Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda), now
about in her dotage, and learned the par-
ticulars, and felt in duty bound to carry

[Column 2]
the sad news to Margaret and Ruth, un-
pleasant as she knew it would be. Yet
sorrow had chastened the younger Mrs
Windeyer, so that Fanny real[-]zed she would
bear up bravely under this crushing blow.
She had longed, and hoped, and waited
through all the years that had come and
gone for the lover whose fidelity she had
trusted always. Her grandmother had
been laid away in the grave, and her home
was a lonely one; but she possessed a cour-
age that had strenthened with her years,
and for Ruth’s sake she must be cheerful.
	It was Christmas eve again in Merton,
and the usual festivities were in progress.
Fanny’s sister, Carrie, came home with half
a dozen children to see the folks, and there
was sure to be a happy party, for Mrs. Hil-
lier and her husband were still hale and
hearty; and Janet Cousins, now a widow,
was invited to join them at Christmas din-
ner; and Lizzie her daughter, once lady’s
maid to Mrs. Windeyer, was invited too,
with her crowd of little ones and husband
(she had married well), while Fanny Hil-
lier, still single, was the good genius and
more than a mother to them all. It was
Fanny to whom they came to unburden
their griefs and cares, and she had a kind
word and comfort, a “balm of Gilead,’’
for all her friends. Fanny felt now was
her opportunity to leave home and go to
the dear lonely Margaret and tell her the
sad story—duty was always before pleasure
with this grand woman. Her mother pro-
tested, and declared she had giver her life
a sacrifice to the love that was flung back
upon her so long ago. Fanny heeded not
the sarcasm, but started forthwith in a
night coach for Easton, arriving on the
Christmas eve.
	As soon as the affectionate greetings were
over, Margaret said, “My Ruth has had
strange forebodings and peculiar dreams.
I hope your coming is in fulfillment. I feel
myself that something must be pending,
and I dread any great change. My grand-
ma’s death, though sad for us, has left me
independent, and I am going to take a long
rest—perhaps go out to India. I fancy
some way that Edward is there. Why do
you sigh—surely no news of him, or you
would have written?'’ Fanny knew not
how to tell the story she had come to un-
fold. Margaret saw it instinctively in the
expression of her countenance, and quickly
said, “Is the news you bring good or ill?
I can bear almost anything now, but for
Ruth, she is so happy.’’
	Trembling with suppressed excitement,
Fanny answered, “I have a very import-
ant message. Ruth’s grandfather is dead,
and she is the only heir to Squire Winde-
yer’s wealth—he died without a will.’’
	Margaret could not speak at first, but
soon collected her thoughts..
	“The only heir, you say then what of
Edward?’’ she groaned aloud; “he cannot
be dead!’’
	"Yes, Margaret, he is dead, in far away
Bombay. On Christmas eve, a year ago,
they buried him. So young to die and
you still hoping on, and teaching Ruth to
love him!’’
	O Fanny, I will not believe it until I
have the pr[-]of! My baby’s father dead,
and we not know it—so strong, and. we so
frail. And I have waited for his coming
through all these long, dreary years! How
shall I tell Ruth? Tell me, Fanny, what
shall I do?’’
	“A sad Christmas, indeed, for you and
darling Ruth; but life itself is sad, and full

[Column 3]
of mysteries we cannot comprehend; but
there are true hearts and noble souls, and
you, dear Margaret, have proved one among
a thousand.’’
	“Stay with me, Fanny, with me and
Ruth; we need you most. You loved his
father—I know it all now. It has come to
me little by little, as I have watched you
and thought of your unselfish devotion.’’
	Just then Ruth burst into the room, her
golden curls and fair brow, so like her father.
“Oh, how lovely! Aunt Fanny here. I
dreamed of her last night, that she brought
us precious jewels, so dazzling and brilliant
that our eyes were blinded with tears, and
when we opened them again, the casket of
jewels held only pale ashes.”
	“It is true, my darling—your dream is
tiue. Ashes to ashes! Our jewels of love
and memory have turned to ashes, and
Fanny brings us today, instead of ‘Peace on
Earth,’ peace to his ashes far away—your
father sleeps in fair Bombay.”
	Ere another year bad rolled around, the
Windeyer estate was settled, and Fanny,
Margaret and Ruth sailed for India, and
on the next Christmas day they knelt to-
gether at Edward's grave, strew[-]ng it with
flowers.
	“One day I searched an ancient cabinet
		And foun[-] a musty book—I have it yet
	A journal of the good year twenty-nine.
		Kept by a long-departed friend of mine:
	And from its leaves, grown brown with age,
		I take a story and a single page.
 
			“Wait! Wait! Love, I come,
				Bless this dear day
			That brings from far away Bombay—
				These words to thee I say,
			Wait, love, I come. ,
			In flowery, far away Bombay,
			Died in December, twentieth day.”
									E. B. W.


