WOMAN'S PROGRESS.

	KNOWING co-education to be one of the
prominent features of the great school of Michi-
gan; I very naturally had a curiosity to see what
was the exact status of woman, and consequently
closely scrutinized the situation—(It may be with
a jealous eye)—but, however I watched, to see if
my sister woman was in any manner slighted, or
deprived in any particular of privileges or op-
portunities accorded the opposite sex. Not that
I expected any very great differences, but to the
critical, I half imagined there could be found some
finer shades of preferences growing out of the
fact that man was man, and woman only woman.
	But to the credit of this great institution of
culture and refinement, be it said that woman is
every where received with the greatest consider-
ation and respect, and in all the numerous
avenues of learning, stands on an equal footing
with her brother man.
	In the literary department particularly it is
pleasing to note her intellectual standing. In
numbers the classes are about two thirds ladies
mostly young, from eighteen to twenty five—and
their intelligent discussions of the most abstruse,
literary subjects—well! at least show they are not
in the back ground.
	In the medical department about one third of
the classes are ladies—and here I have the best
opportunity of noting any discriminations as to
sex, should there be any, but to my surprise and
pleasure never once has there been a distinction
manifested, the professors both in the lecture halls
and in Hospital clinics give them the same un-
studied consideration.
	In the Law School—which perhaps is not con-
sidered so mnch of a womanly avocation there is
but one lady student in the senior class, but report
says she walks paralell lines with her legal
brethren.
	There are also several ladies in the
Pharmaceutical and dental departments which I
have not yet had the pleasure of visiting but think
there is no reason to expect here, an exception to
the general rule.
	In this connection we will quote from a lecture
recently given to the Woman's League by Jas. B.
Angell President of the University of Michigan.
In his introduction he dwelt upon the remarkable
opposition that had been manifested toward wo-
man in the matters of education for generations
past. The great Universities of the world have
effectively barred their doors against them, until
within recent years they are slightly opened—"a
small crack" as it were, giving them opportunities
in a limited number of branches. "But be of
good cheer these same doors will universally be
thrown wide open to you and that very soon.
	A few years since the board of regents of the
University of Michigan sought to compromise
this question by passing a resolution that: "There
should be no bar to anyone, who was mentally
and morally competent, entering this school."
Of course "women are here always." This set

[Column 2]

the doors ajar, and ambitious woman has gradual-
ly stepped in, and is industriously climbing the
ladder of fame.
	The first lady who had the courage to take
advantage of this privilege should have the last-
ing gratitude of all the lady students who came
after. She was really a pioneer and paved the
way most admirably.
	She was an efficient classical scholar, and truly
a remarkable woman, so delicate and circumspect,
earnest, gifted and dignified and with also woman-
ly; that any professors who had entertained any
doubts as to the propriety of the new departure,
were at once converted, for they found that she as
well as those that followed, lost none of this
womanliness that they had just as much ability
as the opposite sex, and more conscientiousness
and with very rare exceptions made a perfect suc-
cess of their work.
	Shortly after this ladies entrance in college a
circumstance occured that created somewhat of a
sensation and which was commented upon by
a number of Chicago papers. A certain lesson in
Greek was an impromptu translation of passages
as a simple exercise.
	The Prof. designated a certain passage for her
to translate. She arose to her feet and translated
the words in a clear distinct voice and without
the slightest hesitation. "Woman should not
attempt to contend with man." The Prof. not
being accustomed to having translations made so
promptly, paid her a very high compliment, and
at once begged her pardon for the character of
the text saying that he had "not even looked at
it and did not know what was coming." It may
be that he did not, but appearances were against
him, and the circumstance made for him con-
siderable notoriety.
	This lady graduated with honors; "indeed," the
lecturer said: "at the very head of her class,"
and is now a very influential and active member
of society.
	Many of the lady professors of Wellesly and
Vassar Colleges are from this school. Miss Free-
man has been made president of the latter within
the last year. Among the early graduates from
the Medical department were Miss Hall and Mrs.
Moser, now active practitioners in Brooklyn.
There is a very pleasing feature connected with
the practice of these two ladies, for over fifteen
years they have practiced together, having one
office and one horse and buggy and cooperating
in attending patients &c. and always with the
most pleasing and satisfactory results. The
recent marriage of Miss Hall has I believe dis-
solved the former partnership. A gentleman re-
ferring to the remarkable unity of these two
ladies remarked: "Show me two men that could
do such a thing!"
	Numbers of lady graduates in medicine have
gone from here as missionaries to foreign lands,
five of whom are now in China. Miss Howard,
now Mrs. King at present in Sing Sing, has been
called to attend the nobility. The natives regard
the results of her labors among the afflicted, as
partaking almost of the miraculous. Through
her influence a hospital has been erected thereby
extending benefits to many of the poorer classes.
	Miss Laura White after graduating from the
school of Pharmacy went to Louisville Ky. and
contested the right of woman to conduct Drug
Stores, she won her case and is now demonstrat-
ing her ability in that profession very efficiently.
	After the question was settled as to woman's
intellectual ability to compete with man in the
halls of learning another arose. Much solicitude
was manifested as to her physical ability. Could
a woman take a college course and keep her
health? Many doubts and queries arose even
the president himself felt fearful. But experiance
has proven that a systematic course of study
with regularity and hygienic living, is indeed
beneficial physically, and the effects were far less
deleterious than society frolics, that consume so
much of the average young ladies attention.
	The fatherly president then advised those just
entering to use discretion and not attempt too
much the first year. Take sufficient exercise in
the open air, eat regularly and sleep the amount
of time nature demands, and do not give too
much time to social life. It is impossible to work
all day and dance all night and maintain your
physical vitality. The absence of gallantry can-
not be complained of on the part of the young
men of '92. In the early days ladies were not
burdened with undue attentions from their gentle-
men acquaintances—it took some time for prej-
udice to wear away—but the pendulum has taken
a swing, and in this respect gone too far in the
opposite direction.
	Prest. Angell closed his lecture by paying a
very high tribute to the lady students—saying:
"I feel under obligations to the noble women who

[Column 3]

have attended this University during the last
twenty years. They have been an army of earn-
est workers energetic thorough and conscientious
and by their gentleness and refinement have
wielded a powerfnl influence over the rougher
element. Yes I feel heartily to thank them and
you, and I trust you will ever remember that you
are here as representatives of your sex. You are
making a record that will be a lasting monument
to your credit, and all colleges will yet be proud
to welcome you in all their various departments.
Yes they will ere long open wide their doors to
womankind throughout the world."
