EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IN this issue of the paper we were ob-
liged to leave over several articles, some of
them already in type “Forefather’s Fes-
tival” and the story “In Rural England,”
also other articles which were prepared for
this number, we beg the indulgence of our
patrons and readers for the lateness of the
first paper of the year, but it would be im-
possible to explain all the reasons of the
delay, though they are good and sufficient.
	A JUVENILE Operatta was given in the
20th Ward Hall in the interest of the
Sunday School by the children of the Pri-
mary Association, under the management
of Prof. J. J. Daynes, Miss Gladys Wood-
mansee and others associated in the work,
on the evening of Friday Dec. 23rd 1892.
Altogether the affair was very unique and
the children were appropriately dressed,
and evinced the most perfect training in
their parts.  The Libretto was written by
Miss Gladys Woodmansee and was musical
in composition and dramatic in effect dis-


playing talent and thought, and the music
by Prof. J. J. Daynes, was of the most
suitable style, adapted to the words and the
entire plot and cast.  It was a juvenile
Christmas opera really, opening with the
characteristic News boy and flower girl who
were very natural in their parts, then the
Santa Claus dance; dancing was a pretty
feature of the whole, and the choruses by
the children were in keeping with the
happy arrangement of the whole affair.
The band of boot blacks caused a great deal
of merriment and was quite true to life and
pleased the children in the audience amaz-
ingly.  Scotch dance by little Lucile Tay-
lor was gracefully charming.  The tableaux
were beautifully arranged and the entertain-
ment was in itself a complete success.  The
children who took part in it deserve praise
and those who trained them certainly spared
no pains.  Santa Claus coming down the
chimney and arranging the childrens, pres-
ents while the little ones were in bed was
very well done and, the waking of the children
and discovering their gifts was very natur-
ally acted.  Miss Woodmansee has shown
herself gifted in putting such a complicated
little operetta upon the stage, as well as in
the composition.


