HAIL THE GLAD NEW YEAR.

	ALTHOUGH we are so unavoidably late in
sending forth our greeting to the many dear
friends and patrons to whom we wish to
express best New Year's wishes, yet never-
theless we feel the deepest interest in those
who have, from time to time, manifested
the least expression of good feeling or in-
terest in the work being done through the
EXPONENT, or organizations, or clubs of wo-
men, and it seems that this New Year opens
with brighter prospects and anticipations in
the way of woman's advancement than
ever before.
	The Columbian Exposition has given to
women everywhere wider opportunities, and
the women, of this Territory have a fair
share of representation with others in all the
various pursuits of life, and of work in all
its phases. And so we say it is a grander
opening for the multitude, what progress
will be made depends much upon the wo-
men themselves; to be sure there is a lack
of means, but the material interests must
be considered and every effort possible made
to show the appreciation of the advantages
given to women in this great and grand
movement which reaches all, and will be
educational and advantageous to all the
world.
	Here in these peaceful vales we are com-
paratively shut away from many of the
disagreeable and unpleasant occurrences that
are so common in many parts of the world,
and for this blessing the gratitude of the
entire people should be offered to Him, who
has guided their ways and through his
Providence opened up these valleys for an
abiding place of security and promise.
What may yet transpire none know, that is
all in the hands of "one who sees not as we
see, and whose ways are not as ourways,"
but the prospect of the completion of the
Salt Lake Temple, during this present year
ought to make it a glad and happy year for
the Latter-day Saints.
	It is an event that has been looked for-
ward to with the greatest interest for the
last forty years, and tens of thousands of
prayers have been offered up by the Saints

[Column 2]

old and young, that this sacred edifice might
be finished and dedicated wherein the labor
for the dead might be more fully accomplish-
ed.
	It is now perhaps almost an assured fact
that the Temple will be dedicated on the 6th
of April 1893, and should it transpire at
that time, the shouts and rejoicing of the
congregations of the Saints, would be some-
thing little less than marvelous, for there
can be no doubt that the angels above are
watching and waiting and rejoice with those
on earth. The people are looking forward to
this momentous event with the greatest
amount of enthusiasm and prospective joy
and gladness.
	And therefore it seems to be consistent to
say that this year will be the most important
in the history of this people and may be
specially significant of the Latter-day
work.
	No doubt many good resolutions have
been made and will be kept, and it is al-
ways good to try even though one may
sometimes fall short of the standard of ex-
cellence which he or she may desire to reach.
	In the good old days when we were young
in dear New England, New Year's was the
time of gifts and calls and rejoicing, feast-
ing and entertainments, for Christmas was
not kept there as it is nowadays. While we
may realize that, many things have been
neglected in the past year and mistakes
made, new resolves will be formed that in
their earnestness and favor will help those
upward and onward that diligently seek to
do good and to assist in the perfecting and
uplifting of humanity, and the preparation
for the great day of the Millinnium.
	And to one and all the editor of the EX-
PONENT extends "A Happy New Year."


