NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE P. C. W. P. A. will shortly issue
an official bulletin and continue in its
monthly publication.
	Mrs. James Lawrence of Albany N. Y.
has published her latest novel, "A Heroic
Sinner."
	ELIZA D. KEITH (Di Vernon) is now the
accredited correspondent of the Weekly
Journalist of Boston.
	MRS. NEWHALL (Ada Halstead) is
dramatizing her novel, "Hazel Verne,"
and writing another work of fiction.


[Column 1]

	ALL Federal Suffrage petitions should
be sent in at once, so as to  be included in
the annual report.
	BY the will of the late Amelia Edwards
a chair of Egyptology has been fonnded in
University College, London, England.
	LADY SOMERSET and Miss Willard will
spend the winter in a Temperance canpaign
throughout England.
	THE women of the Republic have as
vital an interest in its welfare as men have,
and they should take as deep an interest is
its politics and all that advances or retards
its prosperity.—New York Recorder.
	THE 'ast meeting of the New England
Woman's Club was commemorative of the
beloved poet Whittier. Very tender, very
appreciative and beautiful were the tributes
by those who had known and loved Mr.
Whittier.
	SOUTH Carolina will be represented for
the first time at the coming annual meeting
of the National-American Woman Suffrage
Association, to be held in Washington in
January. The delegate chosen is Mrs.
Viola Neblett, of Greenville.
	THE first insane asylum ever erected in 
the Chinese Empire is now being projected
by Dr. E. P. Thwing, who, with his wife
and daughter, has gone to China at his own
expense, to complete the arrangements at
Canton.
	AT the Art Exhibitiou held early in
August in Munich, Bavaria, Mr. Whistler,
the English artist, and Mr. Dwight, of New
York, were awarded medals of the first
class. Two other American artists, Messrs
Dewing and Hassenclulde, of New York,
were honored with medals of the second
class.
	THE Business Committee of the N. A.
W. S. A. has elected Mrs. Harriet Taylor
Upton to fill the position of treasurer, Mrs.
Jane H. Spofford finding it necessary to
resign. A resolution of thanks was voted
to Mrs. Spofford who has for so many years
filled this office and contributed to the suc-
cess of the Washington Convention.
	LET every friend of woman suffrage see
or write at once to his or her own Repre-
sentative and Senator, asking each of them
to work and vote for municipal women suff-
rage in the Legislature. If this were
promptly and generally done, the month of
January might see this great step in pro-
gress taken by Massachusetts, Maine and
New Hampshire. What is needed is a
general expression by women and men in
its favor.
	MISS LILIAN WHITING, in answer to the
question, "Is journalism a good profession
for women?" says: "The journalist must
be born as well as the poet—though he be
not so rare. It requires a degree of creative
power to be an acceptable press writer.
Therefore women who ask only 'Does it
pay?' will find many questions more im-
mediately important before it will pay them.
Like all literary work, journalism must to
a considerable degree choose her votaries
rarher than be chosen by them."
	THE proposal to reproduce at the World's
Fair the Passion Play of Oberammergau
has fallen through. It aroused extreme
opposition throughout the country; and
eminent clergymen, both Protestant and

[Column 2]

Catholic, including such men as Archbishop
Corrigan, Bishop McDonnell, Rev. Dr.
Lyman Abbott, Rev. Dr. James M. King,
Rev, Dr. W. R. Huntington, and others,
were outspoken in their denunciations of a
scheme which they considered a debasing
of things holy, and the turning of a re-
ligious function into a sacrilegous spectacle.
The people of Oberammergau have stated
that they never entertained the idea of con-
senting to come to America for the pur-
pose of giving the play.
	PREPARATIONS have been made for the
production of Sir Edwin Arnold's new play
"The Story of Adzuma." It is written in
the same blank verse as "The Light of the
World." The beautiful heroine, who sacri-
fices her life to save her husband and her
honor, is a pure and true type of the high-
est Japanese womanhood. In some of its
tragic scenes, the work equals those beauti-
ful passages in "The Light of the World"
which picture the sorrow and repentance of
the Magdalene. It illustrates with close
fidelity, the manners and motives of the
Japanese people.
	THERE have been several in portant new
dramatic productions. "Haddon Hall,"
the joint work of Sir Arthur Sullivan and
Mr. Sidney Grundy, scored a popular suc-
cess at its first presentation in the Savoy
Theater, London, Eng., on September 17.
It is a "light" rather than a "comic" opera,
in which love and serious interest are
prominent, although in the libretto the
author of the "Vicar of Bray" has shown
the influence of the author of "Pinafore."
The story is based upon an historical inci-
dent, the romantic elopement of the Puritan
Dorothy Vernon, daughter of the master of
Haddon Hall, with Philip Manners, a
younger son of the Earl of Rutland. The
incident occured in the time of Elizabeth;
but, for dramatic purposes, the scenes have
been laid in the days of the Commonwealth.
Haddon Hall is still the property of the
Rutland family, and "Dorothy Vernon's
Walk," the window from which the maid-
en signaled to her lover, and the door from
which she escaped, are still pointed out.


