FERDINAND.

	FERDINAND V of Castile, 3rd of Naples
and 2nd of Aragon and Sicily, (surnamed
“The Catholic,”) younger son of John II
of Navarre and Aragon by his second wife,
was born in Aragon March 10th, 1452.  On
the death of his elder brother Carlos, he
was recognized by the Aragonese as heir-
apparent to the crown, but the Catalans
rendered indignant by the cruelty and
perfidy with which Carlos had been treated
refused to recognize any further claim on
their allegiance and rose in rebellion against
King John.  Ferdinand accompanied his
father in the campaigns which followed and
gave early promise of distinction.  In 1466
his father formally associated him with him-
self in the government of Aragon and in
1458 declared him King of Sicily.  In his
r8th year he became the favored suitor for
the hand of Isabella heir-apparent to the
crowns of Castile and Leon, who at this
time was kept under strict and oppressive
treatment by her brother Henry who much
desired her marriage with another—Isabella
however finding opportunity to send a
favorable answer to the Aragonese envoy
for his master.  So the marriage articles
were signed and sworn to by Ferdinand on
the 7th of Jan. he promised faithfully to
respect the laws and usages of Castile, to
fix his residence in that kingdom, and not
to quit it without the consent of Isabella; to
alienate no property belonging to the crown;
to prefer no foreigners to municipal offices
and indeed to make no appointments of a
civil or military nature, without her consent
and approbation:  and to resign to her ex-
clusively the right of nomination to
ecclesiastical benefits.  All ordinances of a
public nature were to be subscribed equally
by both.  Ferdinand engaged, more over,
to prosecute the war against the Moors;
to respect King Henry; to suffer every
noble to remain unmolested in the possession
of his dignities, and not to demand restitu-
tion of the domains formerly owned by his
father in Castile.  The treaty concluded
with a specification of a magnificent dower
to be settled on Isabella, far more ample
than that usually assigned to the queens of
Aragon.  While these affairs were in pro-
gress,Isabella's situation was becoming criti-
cal and to reach her side Ferdinand had to
travel in disguise over this a short but danger-
ous stretch of hostile country, his father be-
ing at this time engaged in war.  The party
traveled chiefly in the night—Ferdinand
assumed the disguise of a servant and when
they halted on the road, took care of the
mules and served his companions at table.
In this guise with no other disaster save that
of leaving at an inn the purse which con-
tained the funds for the expedition, they ar-
rived late on the second night at a little
place occupied by the Count of Trevino and
a considerable body of men-at-arms.  On
knocking at the gate, cold and faint with
traveling, during which the prince had al-


lowed himself to take no repose, they were
saluted by a large stone, discharged by a
sentinel from the battlements, which,
glancing near Ferdinand’s head had well-
nigh brought his romantic enterprise to a
tragical conclusion; when his voice was
recognized by his friends within and he was
received with great joy, the remainder of
his journey, which he commenced before
dawn was performed under the convoy of a
well armed escort and on the 9th of Oct.
he reached the kingdom of Leon. The
news of Ferdinand’s arrival diffused univer-
sal joy in the little court of Isabella at
Valladolid. Her first step was to send word
to her brother Henry informing him of the
presence of the prince in his dominions and
of their intended marriage. She excused
the course she had taken by the embarrass-
ments in which she had been involved by
the malice of her enemies. She represented
the advantages of the connection and the
sanction it had received from the Castilian
nobles and she concluded with soliciting his
approbation of it, giving him at the same
time affectionate assurances of the most
dutiful submission both on the part of Ferd-
nand and herself. Arrangements were
then made for an interview between the
royal pair in which some of the courtiers
tried to persuade their mistress to require
some act of homage from Ferdinand in a tok-
en of the inferiority of the crown of Aragon
to that of Castile, a proposition which she
rejected with her usual discretion. Acord-
ingly Ferdinand passed privately to
Valladolid and was conducted to the apart-
ment of his mistress. Here follows a des-
cription of Ferdinand, now in his 18th, year
“his complexion was fair, though somewhat
bronzed by constant exposure to the sun;
his eye quick and cheerful; his forehead am-
ple and approaching to baldness. His mus-
cular and well-proportioned frame was in-
vigorated by the toils of war and by the
chivalrous exercises in which he delighted.
He was one of the best horsemen in his
court, and excelled in field sports of every
kind. His voice was somewhat sharp, but
he possessed a fluent eloquence and when he
had a point to carry, his address was
courteous and even insinuating. He secur-
ed his health by extreme temperance in his
diet and by such habits of activity that it
was said he seemed to find repose in busi-
ness.” (Isabella was a year older than her
lover—*   *   *   *   *   *   * She was ex-
ceedingly beautiful,“the handsomest lady,”
says one of her household, “whom I ever
beheld—and the most gracious in her man-
ners—dignified and modest to a degree of
reserve.
    The interview lasted more than two hours
when Ferdinand retired to his quarters as
privately as he came. The preliminaries
of the marriage, however, were first adjust-
ed, but so great was the poverty of the
parties that it was found necessary to bor-
row money to defray the expenses of the
ceremony. Such were the humiliating cir-
cumstances attending the commencement
of a union destined to open the way to the
highest prosperity and grandeur of the
Spanish monarchy! The marriage between
Ferdinand and Isabella was publicly cele-
brated on the morning of Oct. 19th, in the
palace of John de Vivero in the presence of
abont 2,000 people. After the wedding
festivities which lasted about a week,an em-
bassy was despatched by Ferdinand
and Isabella to Henry to acquaint him
of their proceedings and again request
his approbation of them.

[column 2]
    They repeated their assurances of
loyal submission,accompanying the message
with such extracts from articles of marriage
as would be most likely to conciliate him.
    Ferdinand and his consort in their little
court were so poor as to be scarcely
capable of defraying the ordinary charges
of their table. The death of Henry 4th
(which took place on the night of Dec. 11,
1474 brought Isabella to the throne and she
was proclaimed queen on the 13th Dec. 1474
in Segovia where she then resided, with the
solemnities usual on such occasions. On
Ferdinand’s arrival from Aragon, where
he was staying at the time of Henry’s death
occupied with war, a disagreeable dis-
cussion took place in regard to the respec-
tive authority to be enjoyed by the husband
and wife in the administration of the
government. Ferdinand’s relatives con-
tended that the crown of Castile and of
course the exclusive sovereignty was limi-
ted to him as the nearest male representative
of the house of Trastamara. Isabella’s
friends on the other hand insisted that these
rights belonged solely to her as the lawful
heir and proprietor of the kingdom. It
was finally decided by arbitration that
Isabella, being sole heir of these domin ions,
whatever authority Ferdinand might pos-
sess could be obtained only through her, so
a settlement was made on the basis of the
original marriage documents. Ferdinand,
it is said, was so much dissatisfied with an
arrangement which vested the essential
rights of sovereignty in his consort, that he
threatened to return to Aragon, but Isabella
reminded him that this power was rather
nominal than real—that their interests were 
inseparable—that his will would be hers
and that the principle of the exclusion of
females from the succession, if now
