[COLUMN 2]
save the very rich, for they are an unnec-
essary luxury and look no better, while
they, last not half so long as fine Irish linen.
There is nothing prettier than snowy linen
for the table and nothing easier laundried
therefore though the colored and fringed
borders are very attractive in the shops, it
is neither good taste nor economy to pur-
chase them, the fringe soon becomes ragged
and snarled, and even with greatest care in
combing it becomes thin long before the
linen is worn, while the borders frequently
fade and shrink. I recall a very handsome
table set with a border of fans. It was the
best linen and lasted for years, but after the
first washing it was a continual worry to
the owner, for the border was so shrunken
that it looked like a drawing string had
been run through to make it fit the table.
This lady always avoids colored borders
now though she admits all of them do not
shrink.
	Every body nowadays is in such a rush,
for it is so short a time until the opening of
the World’s Fair, and of course every one
belongs to some club or is on some com-
mittee, and so nany little kindnesses we
used to do are now neglected if not for-
gotten. And the little child and the aged
and the invalid who often had the morning
brightened by a pleasant call, a pretty re- 
membrance, an invitation to dine or
some other little attention now waits in vain,
for the thoughtful friend has so many engage-
ments and is so very busy she never has
time for anything, and yet do we not have
all the time there is and if in the hurrying
and worrying we sometimes stop and
throw a kiss, with a thought to those less
busy, because unable ones how much
happier we make ourselves and them.
	This is a time, however, when in the
course of human events it becomes neces-
sary “excuse the familiar quotation” that
all who are able should be up and doing 
and hustle up a little, so to speak, for with-
in a very short time now, the eyes of the
world will be upon us and it behooves us
all to do ourselves proud.
	We must forget now all differences of
opinion socially, politically and religiously,
and remember only that we are Americans
bound together by one great love—our
country’s love—protected by that country’s
flag. In almost every state, territory,
county, city, township, village all over this
broad land are men and women planning
and working for the great fair. What a 
glorious result the whole will be, if each
individual strives to do the best.  Such
perfection, such excellence is incompre-
hensible and nothing but a trip to Chicago
will cause one to realize the marvelous
greatness of his country or the rapid evo-
lutions of the century. 
	There are so many new books now that
all one’s time might be spent in reading and
then not the half be read, so the busy ones
have to content themselves by merely read-
ing the reviews in the magazines and news-
papers and in fact that is a very good way
to read a book, unless it is something
wonderful or instructive. Time spent over
the silly novels of today is time wasted, a


good book is always a pleasure and a de-
light and if the reviewers are just, we easily
know what books to read and place upon
our library  shelves. Speaking of books,
why not think for a moment of those bor-
rowed ones not yet returned. If a book is
good enough to borrow it certainly is good
enough to return. How very neglectful
we all are in this little matter, and yet often
times a handsome set is broken by the loss
through just such carlessness as forgetting
to return a book. Arranging the library is
a delightful occupation in the wintry
months. So few put the book back just
where it belongs and yet every one likes to
be able to find the wanted book in a
moment, for myself I like m[-] books so
arranged that I can lay my hand on the
volume sought, in the dark, and they
nearly always are. If one places value on
one’s books avoid filling the shelves too full
for then the covers become rubbed by com-
ing in contact with each other. It is a good
idea to cover the shelves with some soft
material so that the book edges do not be-
come worn or scratch the shelves. Books
if not often used should occasionally be re-
moved and dusted, and the leaves opened.
We used to fancy when a man talked about
his “den” or study that it was a place, true
enough, for books but full of disorder with
bits of paper all over, and dust all over,
and books all over, but how different, these
rooms are. I think they are the most de-
lightful rooms in the house for if one values
books sufficiently to purchase a fine col-
lection, he certainly values them enough to
take care of them, and usually the library is
the most attractive room in the house, both
for the arrangement and care of the room
as well as the wealth of thought it con-
tains.


