A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

	IN the evenings when promenading the
deck was out of order, we would all assem-
ble in the saloon and pleasantly wile away
the hours until bed time, by indulging in
games, music etc.
	And thus, in spite of sea sickness and
other minor inconveniences, I enjoyed my-
self immensely; never once wishing that I
had not come or that I was on land; as so
many of the passengers did and after my
week's sickness was over and I again found
an appetite, which I was privileged to
gratify by taking my place at the saloon
table, without any misgivings of impend-
ing accidents, I began to wish that we were
going to be on the water another week,
indeed the thought of so soon terminating
this pleasant voyage, did not in the least
please me.
	But all things must have an end, Tis said
that "Nothing in this world can last," and
when at about 10, 30 of the morning of the
25th, the assembled throng of anxiously
watching passengers on deck sent forth the
cry of  "Land, Land" and we could discern
in the far off distance a tiny speck which
which was said to be a portion of the shore
of Ireland, I began to think that the begin-
ning of the end had come.
	It was a sight to see the now animated
and happy passengers, running to and fro,
calling to each, pointing to the light houses
and various objects as they gradually came
into sight. Seeing them all so overjoyed
at the sight of Terra Ferma; after so short and
pleasant a voyage, I was led to reflect upon
and wonder what must have been the great
rapture and excitement that prevailed on
the occasion when Columbus and his crew,
after a voyage so lengthy and so full of
perils and suspense, were reward for all
past dangers and disappointments, by the
welcome cry of "Land! Land!"
	It was a most pleasing sight to watch the
gradually nearing hills the beautiful green
slopes and picturesque light-houses etc. as
they passed in panoramic order before our
admiring gaze. This was old Ireland, we
should soon reach Queenstown and e'er
tomorrow's sun should cross the Meridian,
all being well we should be piloted into the
English port.
	What a time it was to be sure; every-
body on board the old boat seemed to be
packing their traps, running to and fro, in
and out, up and down, their whole persons
bearing the stamp of animated expectancy,
while the stewards the stewardesses and
the waiters, seemed to be setting in for a
regular Spring cleaning.
	The passengers from all departments had
assembled on deck, and were eagerly look-
ing ahead for the first glimpse of the Tender
which was to come and usher us in to port.
	The trunks had all been hoisted from the
depths of the hold, the valises and bundles
and satchels and boxes had all been brought
up fiom the various state rooms, giving the
place rather a look of prepration for depart-
ure, and over the whole was an air of
anxious expectancy. Many were no doubt
anticipating the reunion of relatives and
friends, while many, I believe, did not
exactly know what they were expecting,
only that it would be something fresh to
them. I did not much relish forsaking a life
on the Ocean wave and in leaving the old
boat I almost felt that I was taking leave
of an old friend.
	At length to the gratification of the

[Column 2]

anxious watchers the Tender was seen ap-
proaching and almost before we had time
to realize the fact was along side of our boat
the occupants of the one exchanging greet-
ings with the occupants of the other. The
gang way was soon thrown across connect-
ing the two boats and ere many seconds,
husbands and wives, parents and children,
acquaintances and friends were industriously
shaking hands and kissing each other, each
asking as many questions to the minute as
possible, but seeming quite content, for the
present, to receive no answers to any of
them, all trying to talk at the same time.
	My companions and I, had neither friends
nor relatives there to meet us, so we stood
looking on at the proceedings of the others
and thought it a regular picnic. Finally
when most of the hubbub had subsided,
some one took pity on us and introduced
us to two gentlemen from 42. Islington who
had come down to welcome to the shores of
Britian, the party from the Rocky Mountains.
	After passing the yellow sands and
emerald banks of New Brighton we arrived
at the landing and once more stepped our
feet on solid ground. We were really in
Old England, though I could scarcely
believe it as it seemed more like a dream.
	I must say my feelings were peculiar and
not unmixed with reverence as I approached
that old publishing house and gathering
place of the saints for so many years, 42.
Islington, how many young and inex-
perienced missionaries had entered that old
office previous to starting out in their new
fields of labor, expecting and receiving as-
sistance and encouragement from its inmates
preparatory to launching out on the mercies
of a cold and unbelieving world. And I
pictured in my mind the great joy which
the native Saints must experience when
their fondly cherished hopes and desires are
about to be realized and they have come
thus far on their way to Zion.
	I tried to realize the conflicting emotions
which must have filled my own brave
mother’s breast, when she first mounted the
old stone steps and lifted the rusty iron
Knocket knowing that from this place she
was about to take what must have seemed
almost an eternal love of all, who by kinship
and association naturally should seem the
nearest and dearest. This was to be the
threshold of a new existence.
	All strange and unexplored, yet beautified
and brightened by faith and hope.
	With what force must the words of the
Savior have struck home to that young
heart.
	"He that loveth father and mother, broth-
er or sister, houses or lands more than me,
is not worthy of me."


