established, would disqualify their only
child, who was a daughter. By these and
similar arguments the queen succeeded in
soothing her offended husband without
compromising the prerogatives of her crown.
    The first years of their reign were
clouded by civil dissensions—they intro-
duced into their kingdom a whole plan of
reform—the war of Granada, its seige and
surrender were occupying the attention of
their majesties at the time Columbus made
his application to the court, and was no
doubt one of the causes of Ferdinand’s
indifference to his enterprise. One of the
unhappy features of the reign was the
establishment of the inquisihon—Ferdinand
succeeded (at the instigation of some of his
religious advisors) in influencing Isabella
and gaining her consent thereto—which is
said to be an error so grave as to give a
sinister expression to her otherwise un-
blemished character.
    Dec. 7th, 1492 an attempt was made on
the life of Ferdinand by a ruffian who
aimed a blow at his neck with a knife—
fortunately however, the edge of the weap-
on was turned by a gold chain or collar
which he was in the habit of wearing, and
his life was saved though his wound was
rather severe. His restoration to health
was the occasion of great joy to his people.
    Ferdinand was made Regent on the death
of Isabella which occurred on Wednesday
Nov. 26th, 1504. Some time afterward he
contracted a second,marriage which however
did not prove a happy one. On the death
of his illustrious consort Ferdinand may
be said to have lost his good genius. From
that time his fortunes were under a cloud,
his ill-advised marriage disgusted his Cas-
tilian subjects. His health began to fail

[column 3]
and on June 23, 1516 he breathed his
last in a wretched little house belonging to
some friars. He died so poor that he left
scarcely money enough to defray the ex-
penses of his funeral. His body was laid
by the side of Isabella in the monastery of
the Alhambra.
    The character of Ferdinand is said to
contrast most unfavorably with that of
Isabella, she being pure, constant and de-
voted to the interests of her people while he
proved himself unworthy of her by in-
dulging in many of the vices too generally
sanctioned by the age. It is said his death
was hastened by a portion which in his
desire for posterity he had taken to re-in-
vigorate his exhausted constitution.
    We naturally turn from these gloomy
last days to the brighter season of his life,
as we find much in him to admire when he
sat with Isabella on the united thrones of
Castile and Aragon strong in the love of
his own subjects and in the fear and
respect of his enemies.


