WICH ISLANDS.—III.

[Concluded.]
	ON Saturday Aug 20th, after bidding a
warm "Aloha nui" to the kind people
around us, whose strains of sweet music
had scarcely ceased during the night, and
whose enthusiasm had brought them to-
gether again to see us off on our journey—
perhaps never to return—we started our
horses in the streams which formed part
of the road to the foot of the Pali, and in
ascending we cast a lingering look on the
unique little village below and repeated
our "Aloha" for its people, much to the
satisfaction of our companions.
	After going back as far as Kukuihaele
we turned westward gradually ascending
the broad plateau between Hamakua and
Kohala which rises to a height of from 1,000
to 2,000 ft, seperating the mountains of
Kohala in the North, which are 5,500 high,
from Mauna Rea in the South. The entire
scene reminds us of home with its extended
belt of forest land, through which rove
numberless herds of cattle. The climate is
also a gentle reminder for we felt quite
comfortable with our wraps on.
	At 2'clock we reached Maimea a distance
of eleven miles from Waipio, we were more
than usually delighted on our arrival at this
Branch, and our burden of responsibilities
seemed suddenly to leave us, and content-
ment of spirit took the place of care. We
had long desired to meet with the Elders
laboring on that island whom we knew
were ahead of us, but not until then was
our desire granted. Such a warm clasp of
the hand as Elder Giles always gives would

[Column  2]

make most any one forget that there were
any trials to contend with in the missionary
field. The spirit of the Gospel which
makes all men brothers can never be more
fully realized than when missionary meets
missionary at his field of labor. We are
strong believers in woman's rights, but we
did appreciate, upon this occasion, being
where there was a man to rely upon. Next
morning Sunday 21st, was the conference
of that Branch and we had the privilege of
attending the S. S. general meetinng and
Y. M. M. I. after which the R. S. con-
vened, and all the saints present attended
the meeting.
	This is a small Branch and the saints
have not been as alive to their duties as
they might have been, but the Sisters ex-
pressed a desire to renew their efforts in the
benevolent work of women. Monday was
necessarily spent in resting until horses
could be obtained to further our journey.
	Tuesday morning however we were en-
abled to go on to our places of appointment,
and after bidding good bye to those who
had assisted us for over 40 miles on our
journey, we mounted our horses for a
twenty-five mile ride to Halaua in the North
Kohala District. Riding horse-back through
pleasant scenery to one accustomed to
horses, might be a pleasure trip, but to one
who is not it becomes a very arduous task.
The scenery was unlike that through which
we had previously passed. In the place of
a dense undergrowth of vegetation, it is
most of the way barren and rocky, and rises
and descends gradually. At 6 o'clock we
arrived at Halawa tired and exhausted from
onr long. ride. Here we had the pleasure
of meeting with Elder Hezekiah Duffin and
Brother Giles missionary companion of
that island.
	Thursday the 25th, with horses for only
half of our company we started out for
Honokani a distance of five miles, Elders
Giles, Duffin and assistants, made cheerful
pedestrian companions. I can imagine
some of our dear friends at home would
have enjoyed seeing us on those little don-
keys wending our zigzag way down the al-
most perpendicular face of the mountain.
But the sure footing of our little animals
removed much of our uneasiness in the
rough descents.
	The Gulch of Pololu through which we
passed, and that of Honokani, the town of
our destination, are similar to that of Waipio
and others previously described.
	The R. S. organization at Honokani is a
lively one, wide awake to their duties and
is managed as satisfactorily as any with
which we have met, the sweet singing, by
young members of the Society as interpersed
through the meeting was a very pleasing
feature.
	We returned in the evening to Halama
and early next morning boarded the narrow
guage train for Mahukona a distance of
twenty-five miles, leaving Elders Giles and
Duffin at their field of labor from which they
expected to return in about four weeks.
	We arrived at Mahukona at 10 a. m. the
Steamer Kinau was already anchored in the
Bay awaiting the arrival of the train. A
larger number than usual was on board and
we had some trouble in securing berths, but
we finally succeeded in getting comfortably
situated and playing well our part as poor
sailors, we turned our faces towards Hono-
lulu. Our troubles however were of short
duration as the ocean was so calm it was
hard to imagine we were at sea. On reach-
ing the island of Maui Brother and Sister

[Column 3]

Duffin come on board at Maalaea and go
over to Lahaina a distance of fifteen miles
on the coast of Maui.
	We arrived at Honolulu at 5 o'clock on
the morning of the 27th, met with the R. S.
at that branch, after which we procured a
one horse vehicle and started 'or Laie,
anxious to see the little ones from whom
we had for the first time been absent. We
arrived there near midnight found all well,
for which we felt thankful to our Father in
heaven, Sisters Harding and Grace, who
had been left in charge of domestic affairs,
were pleased to see us back again and like
the rest of our missionary family, were sur-
prised to know that we had completed our
journey of about 580 miles by water, 100
miles horseback 25 miles by train and 64
by cart, in so much shorter time than ex-
pected and had held eleven meetings dur-
ing the three weeks we were absent from
the plantation. Our hearts were filled
with gratitude to our Father in heaven
for His protecting care that had been
over us during our absence. Our faith
has been strengthened and we trust we have
helped to strengthen that of others, and
that the seeds we have sown have fallen
into good ground and that some day they
will bring forth fruit that will ripen into
a rich reward forthe benevolent work of
the R. S. of the Hawaiian Islands.
			E. D. N.


