U. W. P. CLUB.

	THE Utah W. P. Club met at the EX-
PONENT parlor Dec. 30, 1892.  Mrs. E. B.
Wells in the chair, prayer was offered by
Miss N. V. Davis; roll called, responded to
by original verses suggestive of the New
Year.  Minutes of the previous meeting
read and approved.  Badge for Club dis-
cussed over again.  Miss Davis suggested
a native stone,each member present was ap-
pointed a committee of one to make in-
quiries about it and report at the next meet-
ing.  Miss Davis then read two short
poems and Daisy Fox played a selection on
the piano.  An original article entitled
“Time” was next read by Mrs. Phebe C.
Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells addressed the
club for a short time expressing her love
for the members, speaking of the improve-
ment that had been made and the
advantages to be gained by such associations.
She also spoke very feelingly of her at-
tachment to the old home which was about
to be removed, or taken away; Mrs. Fox
said she took the opportuuity to express
her thanks for her invitation to join this
club, she always looked forward to this
meeting with a great deal of pleasure, said
if anything should happen that she could
not attend she would feel as though some-
thing of importance had dropped out of her
life. 
	Mrs. Mary A. Freeze expressed herself
as being highly pleased with her association
with the club said she had a feeling of love
for the members and would like to do
something to stir up those members who
were not very regular in their attendance.
Mrs. Phebe C. Young was in sympathy and
feelings with the other ladies present,hoped
that our meetings would not be interrupted
by the moving of the EXPONENT Office
was grateful to Mrs. Wells for opening her
house and making it so pleasant for us, and
hoped that the club would continue to pro-
gress and prosper. Miss N. V. Davis said
the fact that she was almost always here
was a sign that she enjoyed the meetings;
thought she might have better improved
the time and benefitted the club more ef-
fectually by giving it the benefit of the new
books she had read, and things that come


up in her daily life; hoped we would set
apart certain evenings for special subjects;
she very much enjoyed her connection with
the association and said that when she would
go away from Utah,she felt she would know
something of the people.  Mrs. Wells said
Mrs. C. Lousie Boyden sent her regards to
the club—one and all, had written a very
affectionate letter.  Mrs. Wells proposed
each member present try and bring a new
member next time; also that the Treasurer
(as the Cor. Secretary was not able at present,)
would send out postals notifying absent
members of our next meeting;  thought
members at a distance might favor us with
an article sometimes.  Refreshments were
then served during which time the President
presented each one present with a pretty
New Year’s card containing a beautifnl Poem
and a few words written by herself.  The
programme for next meeting, Jan 31st was
read as follows—Mrs. C. C. R. Wells
article on the close of the year 1892.  Mrs.
Dickinson descriptive poem.  Character of
short stories in current magazines, Josephine
Spencer.  Poem by Mrs. Lillie Freeze.
Discussion on Badge and Motto.  Bene-
diction by R. M. Fox.
			R. M. FOX. Sec. Pro tem.


