			THE DESERET NEWS.
	THERE have been a number of very
creditable Holiday papers in Utah this
holiday season, but among them all, we
would mention first the oldest paper
published in this region of country the
DESERET NEWS, which issued a special
number of its valuable weekly edition as a
souvenir of the New Year, an unusual
departure for that paper, that has gone on
in its regular order from year to year ever
since its establishment in the early days; the
first number being issued on June 15, 1850
the type having been set in this house; and
in this very room, where so much has been
done in that sort of work since.
	The New Year’s issue of the DESERET
NEWS has a very artistically arranged cover,
representing the Holidays with holly en-
twined a bee hive and a hanging tablet with
the appropriate motto, “Truth and Liberty.”
	The contents are of a high standard of
excellence and the work is profusely illus-
trated.  The Journal opens with an engrav-
ing of President Woodruff which is very

[Column 2]
true to life, and an autobiography written
in his own characteristic style which gives
much important data.
	The Salt Lake Temple by the EDITOR is
perhaps the most important subject treated
npon and is very ably written, and makes
one feel a sort of ecstacy such as lifts the .
soul into a higher element and causes one
to contemplate the grandeur of a House
built and dedicated to the Most High.  The
cut of this magnificent structure is very
exact and enhances the value  of the work
as illustrations invariably do.  The article
gives an accurate description of the build-
ing and is well worth double the price of
the magazine, for reference or to send to
friends away.
	The article on music by Prof. Evan
Stephens is one that all should read, reflect
and act upon who are interested in the musi-
cal development of the young people of the
Territory.  Prof. Stephens has spoken out 
plainly and one cannot help admiring his
frankness, on the subject for which he has
labored so industriously, and it is sincerely
to be hoped that the whole-souled genuine-
ness of the article will have its effect, and a
wider and deeper interest be manifest in the
directions he has so clearly  pointed out.
His picture which accompanies the article 
is very good indeed; "Van Buren and the
Saints,” by Elder John Nicholson is strong 
and expressive  and embodies the facts relat-
ing to that very important and most event-
ful period in the history of the Church, and
should be carefully read and digested.
There are some short articles amusing and
instructive and a portion of the Journal is
devoted to “Societies, Clubs and Culture,”
opening with the “Sunday School Union,”
giving its organization in wards and the
forming of the Union, the first work in
detail, and summing up what has been done
as a whole in the way of printing, donations
to Temples etc. and also the number of
 school teachers and pupils, names of princi-
pal officers etc. with Photo’s of two of the
leading spirits of the movement Gen. Supt.
Geo. Q. Cannon and Ass’t. Supt. George
Goddard.
	Then follows “The Relief Society,”
briefly written of, with pictures of Zina D.
H. Young President, Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith, Vice Presidents.
Next the Young Men’s M. I. A. is given in
brief with President Joseph F. Smith and
Dr. Milton H. Hardy’s pictures.  Young
Ladie’s M. I. A. written in a similar man-
ner giving some of the most interesting 
facts connected with the work, and the
pictures of Elmina S. Taylor, President,
Maria Young Dougall and Martha Horne
Tingey Counselors.
	The Primary is also given with the 
General President Louie Felt’s Picture,
Women and the Fair with picture of Emily 
S. Richards, Pres. Ter. Board of Lady
Managers for Utah, followed by Physical
Reform giving some of the work done in


[Column 1]

that direction by its organized society.
Physical Culture a new phase of work by
Maud May Babcock, Professor of Elocution
and Physical Culture, Uuiversity of Utah,
with a picture of herself. All these deserve
more than a bare mention, but that is im-
possible at present.
	"Woman's Suffrage," "Woman's Press
Club," "Other Clubs" and "A Closing
Word" about clubs are given a place in
this historical member of the Weekly.
Two pieces of music by Pro. E. Stephens,
"The New Year" and "Christmas Carol"
both words and music by the same author
"Night" by Josephine Spencer is very
sweet and sort of entrancing. "A Christ-
mas Chime," E. H. Woodmansee, very
timely and prettily written, would be suit-
able set to music, and a fragment "At Eve-
ning" E. B. Wells—a long poem by H. W.
Naisbitt, suggested by the death of Elder
David Hoagland Cannon, entitled "The
Procession of the Immortals." This poem
is very beautiful, and deserves great praise
it is certainly one of the very best of the
poetical productions of this voluminous
writer, who has done so much in a literary
way for Utah. In this connection we
ought certainly to mention, "The Ideal
City of the West"—which is full of music
as a prose poem, and is beautifully illus-
trative of Salt Lake and its many at-
tractions.
	The Hill Cumorah with the picture is
another very interesting theme well intro-
duced by Elder Edward Stevenson. Then
there are stories by Josephine Spencer. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh, and the schools, colleges
and universities of the Territory this de-
partment is under the heading of "In
Education's Sphere" and opens with our
Church Schools eloquently written by Dr.
Karl G. Maeser, whose picture also adorns
the page, next is the B. Y. Academy at
Provo with Prof. Benj. Cluff Jr. and Prof.
C. Keeler's likenesses, of that institution,
then comes B. Y. College at Logan and a
Photo. of Prof. J. H. Paul next the L. D.
S. College, Salt Lake City with likenesses
of Prof. Willard Done and Prof. Joseph
Nielson, followed by the University of
Utah formerly University of Deseret with
that very handsome building as an illus-
tration,and this series of articles closes with
the Agricultural College of Utah and a
picture of the handsome structure as it will
be when completed. Altogether this num-
ber contains much historical matter worthy
of being preserved and should certainly be
in every home in the Territory, and sent
abroad wherever possible to enlighten people
on Utah matters and the pioneer work
educational, and in other directions that has
been done here.

