New Year's Greetings N behalf of the General Board of Relief Society we extend love and 8) New Year's greetings to Relief Society members throughout the world, and we pray that this new year will bring them comfort, spiritual strength, and j joy. Relief Society women, like everyone else the world over, have passed through dark days during the past war years. They have had difficult and heartbreaking experiences, but they have met these experiences with a fortitude born of faith?a faith that God was at the helm directing in the affairs of men and that ultimately right would triumph over wrong. They have worked and prayed. They have been courageous in their individual lives. They have bound up the brokenhearted and have earnestly sought after peace. And the spirit of God has been upon them even as it was upon Isaiah of old when he bound up the brokenhearted. They have been given strength according to their faith as was Alma when he broke the prison cords unto deliverance. And now the new year is upon us. The mighty nations have bidden their armies to lay down their weapons of war. For this we are truly grateful and we acknowledge the goodness of our Heavenly Father. But we also know that the new year, too, will exact of us strong faith, great courage, devotion to human welfare and a continued striving for peace. 5 This is a time when we might with profit read the vision of Lehi when he beheld a rod of iron which extended along the bank of the river and led to the tree by which he stood. And the iron rod was the word of God which led to the fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters were a representation of the love of God. And many caught hold of the rod of iron but did not hold fast and were drowned in the depths of the fountain, and many loosed their hold and wandered into strange roads and were lost (I Nephi 11). Only as we cling fast to the iron rod will we be secure. As we cling fast to the word of God, the spirit of God will attend us, his love will be poured forth upon us; we will receive strength and courage according to our needs, and we shall have peace, that true inner peace, that quietness and assurance which the Prophet Isaiah told us was the work of righteousness. And our righteousness shall be a leaven unto the wickedness of the world. We shall be like a lamp that burneth in the darkness, and "Gentiles shall see our righteousness and kings our glory." The prayers of the General Board are ever with the sisters of the Relief Society whether they abide in our own or foreign lands, May we all so conduct our lives that nothing will stand between us and the blessings we seek at God's hands. Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp Gertrude R. Garff, General Presidency. Page 3