THE WEIGHT OF YOUR CLOUD Edna S. Dustin The weight of your cloud is far away Until it shadows you. Then it's as near as it seemed far, Its weight can crush you where you are If you let it; its strong folds Can strangle you with talon holds. ? weight of your cloud is far away Unless it shadows you. It may shrink your vision to somber light; Your soul will expand as far as your sight; Though it's as near as it seemed far, You still can't touch it where you are. The weight of your cloud is far away Unless it shadows you. Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press Elder James R. Clark Brigham Young University Copyright 1946 1?DOLLY MADISON AND THE OUTCAST MORMONS (First installment of a series of articles on early Latter-day Saint history) RESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK, JR., recently said in a conference address:.. In this crisis we turn to the women of the earth... To save us men from ourselves. So it has been, in reality, in every great world crisis, however much it may have seemed otherwise. This statement recalled to my memory a bit of forgotten Mormon history of nearly one hundred years ago. It was October 1847. The Mormons had been driven out of Illinois and across the neighboring states to the West. Some of them had reached the Great Salt Lake and established new homes. Countless other thousands were still homeless 'in Iowa. 'These were faced that winter with some of the same problems that the millions in Europe face this winter of 1946?lack of food, lack of shelter, and lack of clothing. They, too, in 1847, had just escaped from armed conflict. What was to be done? Who would step forward and alleviate the suffering of these thousands in the "wilderness of the Far West?" Who was to bind up the wounds of war? Was there no one in the nation who would champion Page 28 the cause of the unpopular Mormons? Yes. A great metropolitan newspaper owner, James Gordon Bennett, the same who sent Stanley to rescue Livingston, became the Mormon champion. While Bennett was lending the weight of his powerful New York Daily Herald to the cause, in Washington, D. C., the women of the capital led by Dolly Madison, wife of James Madison, ex-president of the United States, and Mrs. James K. Polk, the first lady of the land, were united in raising funds for the outcast Mormons. The New York Herald for October 29, 1847, said: The Ladies' Tea-Party for the Benefit of the Mormons The ladies' tea party for the relief of the 1,500 Mormons in the wilderness of the Far West, was opened this evening at Carusi's, and a most successful opening it was. We shall have something to say about it tomorrow. Suffice it for the present, that the ladies of all denominations, all over the city, headed by the mayor and the clergy went heart and hand into the work. MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS The venerable Mrs. Ex-president Madison, Mrs. Polk, Mrs. General Macomb, and many others of the most influential and highly respected and most beautiful of the metropolis, were united in this benevolent of these ladies, their exertions and their Contributions heart to feel, and a head to appreciate true charity, the will be as A fortnight since, Mr. Dana came to this city ( Washington ) and asked for help for the suffering Mormons driven off into the uninhabited wilds of Iowa. Of the city was published meeting was accordingly held; but Prejudice was well nigh a famishing People, their Motto is, we must help them; and they Straightway set to Work about it. 29 So they did in this case, Prejudice was against them, The Mormons, by many persons, are regarded as a miserable, degraded gang of outcasts, not entitled to the common sympathies of humanity. But the ladies of Washington ruled that these people were entitled to relief, and that they must have it. Accordingly, the Benevolent Society held several preliminary meetings at the house of Mrs. Reed, late of Mississippi, a daughter of General Duff Green, residing now on C Street; and the result of these deliberations was a resolution for a tea party. So a few mornings since, a large number of delegates, appointed by said society, sallied out to canvas the city, for the distribution, at fifty cents each, of the following ticket of admission . . . and so last night the affair came off; the house was full ? a refined and benevolent audience. The ticket secured a dish of coffee or tea of the best; the extras were oysters in every style, meats and confectionary, and bouquets. The dispensers of these things were among the best and most elevated and beautiful of the metropolis. Then, at intervals, we had the music of the marine band and the songs of the European Minstrels, a new company of singers, with Mr. T. V. H. Crosby at their head. Then there was a promenade in progress all the time, and from first to last the entertainment was elegant and agreeable to young and old of all sexes, ages and denominations. Mrs. Ex-President Madison, that good and venerable lady, was a contributor, and, but for indisposition, would have been present last night to have parcelled out that large cake which contains the magic gold ring. In her absence, the office was awarded unanimously to Mrs. General Macomb, a Ways active in an work of charity; but the division of the cake was reserved fir this evening. Mrs. President Polk, never forgetful of the claims of the destitute, sent down a number of rare bouquets, and a liberal supply of confectionary, including a cedar tree hung full of French candies, kisses and sugar plumbs. No such fruit as that grows in the gardens of Jalapa. Mrs. P. has been suffering from the chills, or she would have given the party a call during the evening.  30 While this tea Party and the publicity it received in the New York Herald may not have greatly altered Mormon history, the fact that it remains unrecorded in Mormon history books may cause us to fail to appreciate the fact that there were champions of the Mormon cause outside the Church even in the darkest hours of 1847, and the fact that this sympathy and support came from the famous Dolly Madison and from the "First Lady of the Land," Mrs. James K. Polk, should cause the women of Mormondom to be proud that it was those of their sex who reached out the hand of charity when all others had refused or failed. So: "In times of crisis we turn to the women of the earth."