DEATH OF ELDER CLAYTON.

	Elder William Clayton, an old and respected
citizen of Salt Lake, and a [--]an well and
widely known among the Latter-day Saints,
with whose early history his own career is
closely associated, died suddenly this afternoon,
at 20 minutes to 1 o'clok, while he was in the
act of partaking of his dinner. About five
minutes previous, he was conversing with his
aged friend and neighbor, Dr. J. M. Bernhisel.
For several months the deceased had been suf-
fering from an attack of dropsy. Yesterday he
was reported about the same, and although his
condition was not so promising as it had been,
it was not supposed that his end was so near.
Brother Clayton was a native of England, and
was born July 17, 1814. He embraced the Gos-
pel at an early day, and was an intimate asso-
ciote and a tried and trusted friend of the Pro-
phet Joseph, to whom, for many years, up to
the time of the latter's martyrdom, he acted
as private Secretary. While in this capacity,
he transcribed the revelation on Celestial Mar-
riage, and many others, under the Prophet's
dictation and direction. From that day to this
he has been with the Church, and held various
offices of public trust and responsibility in the
community. He was for several years treasur-
er of Z. C. M. I., for many years Territorial
Recorder of marks and brands, and up to a few
months ago, when he resigned his office on ac-
count of sickness, Territorial Auditor of Public
Accounts. He was a man of sterling integrity,
remarkable ability, a faithful Latter-day Saint,
and a good and useful citizen, whose death,
though a happy relief from his sufferings, will
be felt deeply by hosts of personal friends. We
extend our sincere condolence to the bereaved
family in this, their hour of affliction.—D[-]seret
News, Dec. 4.

	The Funeral Services of Elder Clayton were
held in the 17th Ward Assembly Rooms Sun-
day morning, Dec. 7. There was a very crowd-
ed house, and hundreds of people were outside
who could not obtain standing room. Elder
Joseph F. Smith made the opening address, and
commenced by reading an affidavit signed and
authenticated by the deceased in regard to his
connection with transcribing the revelation on
Plural Marriage. Interesting and consoling
remarks were made by Judge Elias Smith,
Coun. D. H. Wells and President John Taylor.
	The hymn composed by Bro. Clayton, called
"The Res[-]rrection Hymn," was pathetically
sung by the choir, the congregation joining
them, making it all the more solemn and af-
fecting. "Peace to his ashes." He has gone
to meet his beloved friend Joseph, and there is
no doubt, a happy re-union and rejoicing with
them.


REV. ANNA OLIVER, pastor of a church
in Brooklyn, N. Y. is doing a good work
among her people in public and private.
The church is increasing in numbers despite
opposition and difficulties. She recently
preached a fine sermon from the text, "He
answered nothing," showing the dignity
and beauty of self-control. Her sermons
are eminently practical, and delivered with
grace and power.—Woman's Journsl.

	GREAT thoughts originate from a large
heart.—F. W. Robertson.


