HON. A. P. ROCKWOOD DEAD.

	Elder Albert P. Rockwood, one of the First
Seven Prresid[-]nts of the Seventies, of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
departed this life at 4:35 A. M., Nov. 26, at his
residence,  Sugar  House Ward.  His ailment
was a disease of the lungs, from which he had
been confined to his bed for the past three
weeks.  He was born June 5, 1805, in Hollis-
ton, Mass ; joined the Church in 1833, went
through the persecutions endured in Missouri
and elsewhere, and was steadfast and foremost
in every good work.  He was one of the pio-
neers of Utah in 1847, and since then has been
a prominent member of the Church and a man
of integrity, position and influence in the com-
munity.  He served in the first Legislature of
Utah, has been a member of the same body
ever since, and was elected for the approaching
session, this winter.  He was the pioneer fish
commissioner of the Territory also, and one of
the directors  of the  Deseret Agricultural and
Manufacturing Society. In fact, through al-
his career, he has held high  and  responsible
positions with honor to himself and benefit to
the community in which he has so long resid-
ed,  A good man has gone to rest after  a  long
lif[-]  of  usefulness.  He died peacefully, sur-
rounded  by  his  family and friends, and pre-
vious to his  death, shook hands with and bade
them all good bye.  We sincerely sympathize
with the bereaved family in their heavy loss.—
Deseret News.
	Elder Rockwood's funeral services were held
in the 12th Ward  Assembly Rooms, near his
former resident, on  Saturday, Nov. 29,  at 1
o'clock P. M,, and were numerously  attended.
Many testimonies were given, by the brethren
who spoke, of his blameless life, his solid wo[-]th
as a pioneer, as an  enterprising citizen, and as
a Christian.
	Brother Rockwood was a positve and un-
flinching friend to the cause of woman suffrage
and to woman's advancement generally; and
by his death the women of this Territory have
lost one of the strongest advocates on all ques-
tions relating to their interests.  "It is devoutly
to be hoped" that the Member who shall be
elected to fill the position in the Legislative
Body occupied by the Honorable Member de-


parted, may be not only as good a man in all
generalities, but that he may be as strong on
the question of equal rights and privileges, re-
gardless of sex.


