MENTS.

 Writing f[-]om St. Petersburg, a correspond-
ent remarks.  The Chersonesus appears still
to be rich  in  antiquities,  notwithstanding
the explorations and plunderings that have
taken place by Huns, Tartars,  and Cossacks
during hundreds of years.  In this city the
Hermitage contains a very  interesting and
valuable collection of costly  relics, many of
them in gold, beautiful specimens  of  Greek
art, found in some of  the  tombs  in the
neighbourhood of  Kertch.  Among the
choicest are the laurel  leaves  of the  finest
gold which adorned the victor's brow, with


other objects carrying the observer back to
the every-day life of the period. In the
tomb of a woman were found the very box
of vermillion and the stencil with which the
owner added to her charms some 2,000
years ago, her household gods" buried with
her, and now unburied, shewing that the
customs of the fair sex 20 centuries past
wereidentical with modern times in the
matter of outward adornments. From an
account published in the Journal de St.
Petersburg, it appears that valuable trea-
sures are yet to be obtained in this rich
field of antiquities, as will be seen from
the details of every costly gold ornaments
that have just been discovered by the for-
tunate director of the Kertch Museum. He
found, in the early part of September, near
the road between Temruk and the station
of Sennaia, a tomb of the third century,
before the Christian era, in the reign of
Persidas IL (?), King of the Bosphorus.
The tomb must have been that of a highly—
born damsel. It was found to contain a
gold collar of the thickness of an ordinary
lead pencil in one piece, ornamented with a
lion's head at each end; a gold crown, an
inch wide, the outer part formed of rings
linked together and ornament with fine
stones, in the center is a swan, with Cupid
on its wings' gold earrings with two pome-
granates; a very heavy chain; earrings of
very fine workmanship; two bracelets of
very heavy work; a round gold brooch and
pin representing Venus holding Cupid in
her arms; four gold leaves; a pearl collar
with clasp; amulets; three very small gold
rings; a silver flagon; a silver lachrymatory;
a silver vase; cup; silver spoon; remains of
silver articles; and a tooth of the young girl.
—Susex Daily Times.


MISS FRANCIS E. WILLARD was chosen
president of the National Women's Christian
Temperance Union, at the last annual meet-
ing in Indianapolis. Mrs. Annie Witten-
meyer, the retiring president, was made an
honorary member.

	MISS YOCUM, a school-teacher of Kittitas
Valley, Oregon, has taken up a land-claim
fenced it, built a house and this year raised
612 bushels of grain, besides teaching her
school. She says she does not mean to
marry until she can support a husband.

	MISS MARY EMORY, of Bellefontaine, O.,
last election day went out with her own
horse and wagon, and drove Republican
voters to the polls. A number of young Re-
publicans manifested their appreciation of
her services by presenting her with a hand-
some toilet set in the evening.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading shuttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

