HOME AFFAIRS.

	By invitation of Bro. C. C. A. Christianson,
we had the pleasure of being present at the
exhibition of the "Mormon Panorama," in the
14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Monday evening,
Dec. 8.  This series of paintings were designed
and executed by Bro. C. himself, and are des-
criptive of some of the most thrilling events
in the history of the Latter-day Saints. The
pictures are very good, and are strikingly illus-
trative of the scenes represented.  Those who
are best acquainted with the subjects which
the paintings are designed to delineate, say
they are excellent in almost every particular,
and they certainly deserve the patronage of
the people through the Territory.  Children
will learn from these some of the pathetic epi
sodes through which this people have passed,
and the pictures will make a more powerful
and lasting impression upon them than the
mere recital, however eloquently or definitely
described.  Mormonism is rich with incidents
for the artist, the historian, the drama, and
it is a credit to Bro. C. to give the public the
benefit of his arduous, though perchance pleas-
ant labor.  We sincerely wish him every suc-
cess, and do not hesitate to recommend his
series of views; the production of home talent,
in whatever class of home work, it should be
the plea[-]ant duty of every Latter-day Sai[-]t to
encourage and sustain.
	MRS. Emily B. Spencer, of St. George, now
reading in the 14th Ward of this city, two
doors South of tho Valley House, at the resi-
dence of Wilford Woodruff, Jun., will give
twelve lessons in drawing, or painting in wa-
ter colors, for $2.50.  She is also well acquainted
with the best methods of arranging genealogi-
cal records ready for baptism of the dead, and
will fill up record books where the work has
been accomplished.  Mrs.  Spencer  has had
much experience in this kind of work.
	PREPARATIONS for the holidays are in order,
one would judge from the busy appearance of
the city generally.  The stores and shops are
undergoing the ornamenting and decorating
process, and every conceivable article of use,
ornament and luxury are presented to the pub-
ic in the best and most inviting style. The
windows of Z. C. M. I., and of Young and
Marks store, opposite, seem designed to rival


each other in elaborate ornamentation.  Every-
thing that is necessary for physical comfort
can be obtained on reasonable terms.  Jen-
nings and Teasdel are not behind in recom-
mending their goods, by displaying them in a
tasteful and artistic fashion, and altogether
the merchants, shopkeepers, milliners, bakers,
butchers, and other well-known tradespeople
are doing their utmost to assist in making the
holidays a success.
	JAMES Dwyer, Esq., the genial, brisk and
enterprising book merchant of Salt Lake City,
has an extensive and elegant stock of Christ-
mas and Holiday goods, suitable for all ages
and the great variety of tastes of different peo-
ple.  The dolls and dishes, of which the little
folks are so fond, are there in every size and
quality. Toys for girls, toys for boys, whips,
wagons, carts, horses, and all the numerous
paraphernalia of the nursery and play room,
can be obtained at "Dwyer's Store."  Books of
all kinds, history, poetry, romance, prose on all
subjects, and fairy tales.  Children's books,
edited by the best writers suitable for Christ-
mas and New Year's presents.  Looking over
the large and beautiful assortment, one could
not help thinking what havoc Santa Claus
would soon make in the establishment, for our
readers must know that Santa Claus revels in
places of this sort, and we trust that if Dwyer's
shelves are emptied by the many Santa Claus
his till will be correspondingly filled.
	THE Relief Society, You ng Ladies' and Pri-
mary Associations of this County will hold their
Annual Conference in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms Friday and Saturday, 19th and 20th of 
this present month.  Those interested in these
Associations a[-]e cordially invited.  Will Sec-
retaries please report immediately, and direct
to this office?
	MRS. M. I. Horne requests us to inform the
presidents and officers of Relief Societies that
they are desired to furnish second-hand cloth-
ing, or quilts, for the Lamanites, especially
the squaws.  The weather is very cold and
many are suffering for some cove[-]ing to protect
them.  In the coming Conference some definite
instruction will be given on this subject.


