    "THE SUPPRESSION OF POLYGAMY.

	"The continued deliberate violation by a
large number of the prominent and influential
citizens of the Territory of Utah of the laws of
the United States for the prosecution and pun-
ishment of polygamy, demands the attention
of every department of the government. This
Territory has a population sufficient to entitle
it to admission as a State, and the general in-
terest of the nation, as well as the welfare of
the citizens of the Territory, require its ad-
vance from a Territorial form of government to
the responsibilities and privileges of a State.
This important change will, however, (not) be
approved by the country while the citizens of
Utah, in a very considerable number, uphold a
practice which is condemned as a crime by the
laws of all civilized communities throughout
the world. The law for the suppression of this
offence was enacted with great unanimity by
Congress more than seventeen years ago, but
has remained until recently a dead letter in
the Territory of Utah, because of the peculiar
difficulties attending its enforement. The
opinion widely prevailed among the citizens of
Utah that the law was in contravention of the
Constitutional guarantee of religious freedom.
This objection is now removed. The Supreme
Court of the United States has decided the
law to be within the legislative power of Con-
gress, and binding, as a rule of action, for all
who resided within the territories. There is
no longer any reason for delay or hestitation in
its enforcement. It should be firmly and ef-
fectively executed. If not sufficiently strin-
gent in its provisions, it should be amended,
and, in aid of the purpose in view, I recom-
mend that more comprehensive and more
searching methods for preventing, as well as
punishing this crime be provided. If necessary
to secure obedience to the law, the enjoyment
and the exercise of the rights and privileges of
citizenship in the territories of the United
States may be withheld or withdrawn from

[Column 2]
those who violate or oppose the enforcement
of the law on this subject."

	All this sounds very well to those who are
using their influence to break up the homes of
the people who settled this desert land, and
encountering hardships and privations of every
name and nature almost, at last succeeded in
obtaining some of the rights and privileges of
citizens of a Republic.
	It may be that His Excellency would use
some stringent measures to prohibit plural mar-
riage in future, because monogamy is the es-
tablished custom of the country; but that a
man in his position will spread desolation and
devastation, and impover[-]sh a now prosperous
Territory belonging to the general government,
seems to us incredible. When such things are
done we shall believe "men are gone mad."
Besides, His Excellency has been duly in-
formed of the misery he would bring into the
now peaceful, happy homes of the people.
Separations that would indeed rend asunder
the very heart-strings of women and children.
	In our interview with Pres. Hayes last win-
ter, after making a verbal statement to His
Excellency of the condition of this people and
the desolation and misery which must neces-
sarily follow a rigid enforcement of the law of
1862, then just having been declared constitu-
tional by the decision of the Supreme Court,
His Excellency not only listened attentively
and feelingly to the recital, but remarked that
he had never looked upon the question in the
same light before, had never thought it would
involve so muoh sorrow and wretchedness, and
that it was altogether too important a matter to
trust to memory, and requested us to put what
we had said in writing, that he might give it
careful consideration and present it in that
form to his Cabinet.

	We do not believe him to be hard-hearted, or
unfeeling, but the continual howlings of those
who are seeking to destroy the peace and pros-
perity of the Latter-day Saints has had its ef-
fect upon the rulers of the country. We ear-
nestly and solemnly beseeched him, as the
Chief Executive of this great nation, and the
father of its people, to consider well the nature
of the persecution aroused against this people
by the ministers and women of the nation
whose petitions were pouring into Congress
from all quarters. We entreated him in the
name of "One who sees not as man sees," who
would not permit even a sparrow to fall to the
ground without his notice, to exert his influ-
ence to avert any harsh measures: that this
Territory, now abounding in contentment, and
plenty, might not be desolated and filled with
prisons for men, almshouses for children, and
asylums for women cruelly driven to insanity
We asked the question, What balm has Your
Excellency, or Congress, to offer for broken
hearts, or desolated hearths? What recom-
pense can you make these children for a fa-
ther's tender care? Can Congress appropriate
an unbounded supply of the milk of human
kindness to heal the wounds, or dry up the
fountains of woman's tears, when the strong-
est ties of love are rent asunder?

	We argued that it was impossible for His Ex-
cellency to comprehend the strength of the af-
fection which exists in Patriarchal Mormon fam-
lies—of husband and wives for each other, of the
father for all his children; and also, we would
most respectfully suggest that before you coun-
tenance any measures taken to destroy the
happiness and prosperity of the Mormon peo-
ple you would become familiar with the record
of the Latter-day Saints, and in judging them,
not only be guided and dictated by the highest
and finest sentiments of humanity; but with

[Column 3]
the reflection that upon the annals of this na-
tion will be engraven the record of your deci-
sion in a matter which involves the life, liberty
and happiness of many thousands of loyal
citizens of this Republic. It is impossible to
state, in so small a space, the arguments pre-
sented, or the pen picture drawn for His Ex-
cellency, of the disastrous effects which must
follow a decision such as has been urged by
the Anti-polygamy party. The Latter-day
Saints know to what terrible str[--]ts they would
be driven, if compelled to submit enmasse to
the rigid enforcement of any harsh measures,
such as are now being agitated. It is too hide-
ous a picture to contemplate, therefore we will
leave it for the present, knowing there is a God
who has said to his opposers in times past,
"Thus far shalt thou go and no farther."


CONGRESS seems to be well supplied with
bills, amendments and resolutions suggestive
of plans to deal with the Mormon question.
The people of this Territory may congratulate
themselves that Utah and her people is a very
popular subject in Congress this year.  Notices
of these bills came too late for us to discuss in
this number.


