				ONERS.

To the Editor of the "Daily News:
 Sir--Will you allow me to appeal to a
philanthropic public through the medium
of your journal?  We have in this prison a
great number of women who, when  they
are discharged, will have neither character,
money, employment, friends, nor home to
fall back upon, and who, either from their
repeated convictions, the nature of their
offences, or from the fact, perhaps, of their
being deserted wives, are not eligible for
the ordinary Homes and Refuges which
abound in the metropolis and elsewhere.
Of course, they have in most cases brought
themselves to their present forlorn condi-
tion, and are paying the penalty due to
their follow; but, at the same time, it is a
fact that many of them would be only  too
glad to reform their lives if they had the
means, or help was extended to them, so to
do. When they leave these walls,  the
workhouses for  many[-]reasons not being de-
sirable, and the Homes not being available,
they have no alternative  but  to  wander
about the streets, and before the day is past
to fall once more into  the hands of  the po-
lice.  Being hungry and penniless and with-
out resources, the kindly meant invitation,


"Have a drink, missus?" is more than they
can withstand, and with their empty stom-
achs they speedily become intoxicated, and
on the morrow, in the language of the po-
lice courts, are termed "incorrigible drunk-
ards."  Daily such cases as these appeal to
me in heartrending terms  to  give  them
work, to remove  them thus from their old
haunts and associates, to send them abroad,
or in some way to give them an opportunity
of doing better; and though, through the
instrumentality of many reformatory socie-
ties, I have been able to help during the
past year several hundreds of discharged
prisoners, yet for these poor creatures, I am
sorry to say, there has been but little assist-
ance forthcoming.  They are mostly strong
and healthy  young women, who, judging
from their behavior whilst in prison, would
in many instances make good charwomen,
laundresses and domestic servants.  As
there is an "embarras de richesse" of wo-
men in England, I cannot hope to obtain
employment for them here; and it is, un-
fortunately, a difficult matter for women
even of good character to earn their living,
and the difficulty is almost insurmountable
for those without friends or reputation to
aid them.  In the colonies, however, the
sex is not fairly ropresented, and there is
consequently a great demand for female la-
bor of all kinds.  My object in writing this
letter is to ask some of your readers to help
me to establish  an  emigration  fund, by
means of which three women of this class,
aged respectively, 27, 29, and 32, may have
an opportunity in another land, and amid
new associations, or recovering their char-
acter and regaining their lost positions. I
may add that the experiment has been tried
in two cases, and has succeeded beyond all
expectation.--I have the henor to  be,  Sir,
your obedient servant, G. P. Merrick, Chap-
lain, H. M. Prison, Westminster, S. W.,
October 21.--English Woman's Review.


