     BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	In our last article on this subject we had
commenced the subject of table etiquette
but did not finish, so we will add something
more on that subject. It is really a very
nice thing to deport one’s self well at table.
Every real lady or gentleman knows how
disagreeable it is to sit at table with vulgar
ill-bred people.
	“As soon as seated remove your gloves,
place your napkin across your lap. If
oysters are ready served begin to eat; it is
very old-fashioned to wait for others to com-
mence. Bread is broken at dinner; vege-
tables are eaten with a fork. Asparagus
can be taken in the fingers if preferred,
olives and artichokes always are. Fish and
fruit are eaten with (silver) knives and
forks. In England it is considered to be
underbred ever to transfer the fork to the
right hand. You are at liberty to refuse a
dish that you do not wish to eat. If any
course is set down before you that you do
not wish, do not touch it. Never play with
food, nor mince with your bread nor handle
the glass or silver near you unnecessarily.”
	Have no fear in taking the last piece on
the dish if is offered to you. It is more
uncivil to refuse it than to take it.
	“The duties of a hostess require both self-
possession and constant watchfulness to see
that all her guests are at their ease and have
every attention. She should not betray
any restlessness or disappointment whatever
may occur, and whatever may go wrong
never reprove a servant before any one.
Late guests should be as cordially treated
as if they came earlier. It is a rudeness
towards those who arrive punctual to keep
them waiting long. Thackerary is very
severe upon those who arrive late; but un-
avoidable mistakes in the hour made some-
times by those who are entirely innocent of 
any wish to produce a sensation, causes
guests to be very uncharitable although the
host and hostess may not be so. Reaching
the table, it was formerly the custom in old-
school circles for every lady to remain
standing until the hostess had reached her
chair, she not seating herself until after the 
ladies who were her guests were seated.
Now for the greater convenience of the
gentlemen who escort the ladies, they take
their seats,leaving their cavaliers to remain
standing until the hostess is seated. When
the hostess sees that all have finished she
looks at the lady on the right of the host,
and the company rise, and return in the
order they were seated without precedence.
Gentlemen cannot be invited without their
wives, where other ladies than those of the
family are present; or ladies without their
husbands, when other ladies are invited
with their husbands. This rule has no ex-
ceptions.”
	Mrs, Ward has considerable to say about
boys and girls in certain circles  controlling
society, and adds in these days intellect is 
transformed from the head to the heels,and 
when one asks what is discussed at parties
the appropriate answer would be “people
dance.” She thinks this state of things
will never be remedied until people learn
it is possible to receive friends without
turning their homes into a restaurant.
“Let those who have the gift of entertain-
ing by promoting conversation among their 
guests, and putting them at ease receive
their friends freely without feeding them,
	We have heard of late through the peri-
odicals of the day that the old customs of
inviting friends to breakfast and the more
injoyable “five o’clock teas are being re-

[Column 2]
vived, which involves much less expense
than the dinner. 
	Good manners render social intercourse
pleasant and delightful, and it is not only
exceedingly proper that all writers and
speakers of influence should do what they 
have the ability to do in this matter, but to 
us it seems to be an imperative duty. No
society will or can improve where the man-
ners are bad. The ancient philosophers
attached, a great degree of importance to
good manners, as also at a later period Lord
Bacon, Chesterfield and in our own time
Emerson Ruskin and others. Aristotle says
“manners are the lesser morals of life.”
Every person of ordinary intelligence knows
how much of happiness depends upon the
manners and bearing of people towards each
other.
	We should not be guilty of rudeness at
home,and if not we could hardly be so from
home. Lack of politeness in the home-circle
is one of the barriers to home-happiness. If
parents wish their children to be successful
or to be happy in their own homes, or to
diffuse happiness among those with whom
they associate, they shonld instruct them to
set a proper value upon good manners, and,
above all to be civil to every one. Children
should be taught how essential it is to be
grateful and appreciative. There is an
immense value in the manners of people
which has a potent influence in all the va-
rious departments of life, social, political,
and religious.


[Column 1]
