SOME OF HIS VIEWS ABOUT WOMEN.

	His Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury
felt it necessary, last Thur[-]day, to make a
sort of apology for learned ladies. The
Primate was engaged in presenting the
prizes gained by successful candidates in
certain Metropolitan districts of the last
Oxford Local Examination; and one would
have thought that the very place where he
was speaking, namely, the theatre of the
University of London, would have rendered
it almost unnecessary for the Archbishop to
go over the old time-honored defences of
learning for ladies. Since Sidney Smith
wrote his famous paper on "Female Educa-
tion" a good many things have happened;
and it is really not so much in the way of
an educational as of a social subject that the
matter has now to be treated. The educa-
tional difficulty has been satisfactorily
solved by the universities. These have
leavened the schools, both public and pri-
vate; and now it only remains to record the
verdict of popular opinion. What has be-
come of the old prejudice against so-called
blue stockings? Like other prejudices it
dies hard, of course; but is so nearly de-
funct that the Archbishop had not to hit
very fiercely last Thursday to insure its e[-]-
tire d[-]molition, so far as his trenchant
words might reach. Some obtuse people
will, of course, remain unconvinced; but
these do not count. The pres[-]nce of those
little girls among the junior, and the bigger
girls among the senior prize-takers forms a
very complete answer to the old senseless


notion that girls are inferior to boys in in-
tellectual matters. They also show that the
equality has been recognized. The clear
stage and no favor have been granted, and
there is the result. Girls and boys stand
on the same class list; and learned ladies
have to be accepted as realities. Why not?
That was what the Archbishop wanted to
know—why not? For the last nine years
the experiment of admitting girls to these
examinations has been tried and found to
answer admirably. The Archbishop was
loud in his praise of this equality. Then
he began his aggressive work. He was
afraid, he said, that some prejudice still ex-
isted in the country against learned ladies;
but the sooner that prejudice was overcome
the better. Some people, said the Primate,
still held the notion that learned women
were not feminine. His own experience,
he added, was that some of the most igno-
rant women were the least feminine of
those with whom he was acquainted. We
can well believe that his Grace was here
thinking of one whose many talents and
acquirements formed the subject of that
pleasant book to which we recently advert-
ed, and that his happy association with her
had enabled him to speak as he did to those
girls some words of encouragement in their
intellectual pursuits. It was, he said, of
great importance that a proper direction
should be given to the studies of young
girls at that period of life when they
passed out of the schoolroom. That has
been done; and the Archbishop's apprecia-
tion of the fact was hearty. But in one
particular we are inclined to think be un-
derrates the steps that have been gained.
Passing on from intellectual to physical
education, he said that it was a pleasant
sight to see boys and young men at cricket
and football in Battersea Park and in other
open places on summer evenings; but he
was afraid we had scarcely arrived at a suf-
ficiently high degree of civilization to pro-
vide suitable and healthy recreation for
female candidates. Is this so? We cer-
tainly do not find ladies joining cricket or
football clubs; nor is it desirable that they
should do so. But surely croquet and lawn-
tennis mark something like epochs in the
history of outdoor recreation for ladies.
We remember when a certain feeble game
called "La Grace," which consisted of catch-
ing a hoop on two sticks, proved really the
only available exercise for girls; and when
school calisthenics turned out very limp
young ladies indeed. Now, the different
gymnasiums and swimming baths have set
times for ladies; drilling takes place in
nearly all schools; and altogether we do 
not believe we are so far behind in these
matters as the Archbishop of Canterbury
appears to suppose. In fact, we shall begin
to think soon that we have attained a pretty
satisfactory condition of equality in almost
all respects.—Sussex Daily Times.


