MORGAN STAKE.

	The Fifth Quarterly Conference of the R.
S. was held at Morgan City, Friday and
Saturday, Oct. 24 and 25, 1879, Pres. Lydia
Rich and Counselors presiding. On the
stand were Mrs. S. A. Rawl, President of
the Y. L. Association of Morgan Co., also
our much loved Pres. Eliza R. Snow from
Salt Lake City, Pres. W. G. Smith and sev-
eral bishops and a number of the presidents
of Relief Societies. Opened with the usual
exercises. Mrs. Sarah A. Rawl read the
minutes of the previous Conference, also
Statistical and Financial reports of the va-
rious branches, and a condensed report of
the Stake, which were accepted.
	Pres. E. R. Snow occupied most of the
time in excellent instructions. She spoke
of the necessity of having Primary Asso-
ciations in all our wards, that we might
take our little ones while they are pure and
uncontaminated with evil, and implant
within their hearts the pure principles of
the Gospel. She thought it necessary that
the very best talent in our midst should be
employed to preside over the Primary As-
sociations—those who love children and
have the faculty of drawing them to them;
said that theirs were bright spirits that had
been held in reserve to come forth in this
day for a wise purpose, and all they want is
properly directing, and it is astonishing to
see the progress they will make.
	Mrs. Harriet Welsh then addressed the
meeting for a short time, also Mrs. Jane
Toomer, who bore testimony to the power
of God recently made manifest in her be-
half, wherein she received her sense of
hearing after being deprived of it a number
of weeks. She testified that the gifts and
blessings of the gospel enjoyed by the
former-day Saints were for us if we would
only live for them.
	Pres. Smith then addressed the meeting,

[Column 3]
expressing a warm interest in the labors of
the sisters.

	Afternoon sessson: After singing and
prayer, the presidents verbally represented
the societies over which they preside—Mrs.
Emma Croft of Enterprise, Mrs. Fannie
Taggart of Richville, Mrs. Harriet Spend-
love of Milton, Mrs. S. A. Porter of East
Porterville, Mrs. Sarah Florence of West
Porterville, Mrs. E. Worlton of North Mor-
gan, Mrs. Louisa Carrigan, Counselor at
Weber City, Mrs. M. A. Simmonds, Coun-
selor at South Morgan, and Mrs. Wagstaff,
Teacher at Croyden.
	Pres. Lydia Rich spoke earnestly upon
charity and a consistent life. She gave
some good instruction to the young, and
said that there was a great deal expected of
them, as they had been born heirs to the
priesthood and are being raised under the
influence of the Gospel. She thought that
parents should have a particular care over
their children while they were young, and
endeavor to instil into their minds pure
principles in the first place—teach them to
be scrupulously honest, then there is a firm
foundation upon which character can be
built. She spoke upon the duty of the sis-
ters settling their own difficulties. She
recommended the Relief Societies and the
Young Ladies' Associations to unite for the
purpose of establishing libraries in the sev-
eral societies.

	A few remarks were made by Sister Ann
Fry and Bishop Toomer. Conference ad-
journed untill Saturday morning at 10 A. M.

	Saturday morning session: Mrs. S. A.
Rawl, President of the Young Ladies! As-
sociation presided. After usual opening
exercises, there were reports read from
some of the Young Ladies' Associations,
also some of the presidents verbally repre-
sented their associations, after which Pres.
Rawl made some very appropriate remarks.
There were remarks made by several sisters
and also some of the brethren. A request
was then made that all the children of South
Morgan Ward assemble punctually at 2 P.
M., when they would be organized into a
Primary Association. Meeting then ad-
journed until 2 P. M.

	Afternoon Session: Punctually at the
time appointed the seats that had been re-
served for the little ones were filled with
rosy-cheeked, smiling children, whose
bright, sparkling eyes betokened their in-
terest in what was to be their own meeting.
Sister Snow then asked them a number
of questions, answering the same for them
to their understanding. Sister Harriet
Welsh was elected President, and Sisters
M. A. Fry and Janette Hogg, Counselors.

	The time occupied in the children's meet-
ing was over an hour, and they were greatly
interested and very quiet; they were then
dismissed.

	Pres. Rich then made a few remarks.
Elder Samuel Francis also made some very
encouraging remarks, after which the offic-
ers were set apart to preside over the Cen-
tral Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Morgan
Co.; Mrs. Jane Toomer, President, Mrs.
Jane Crouch and Mrs. Nina M. Porter,
Counselors. Conference then adjourned
for three months.
