CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.

	The wheels of time have rolled around,
until Christmas has come again—the day of
all days in the year which is looked forward
to by the "little folks," who have anxiously
counted the months, then the weeks, and
lastly the days, until it should arrive. It
has come at last, bringing with it that time-
honored, world-renowned friend of the 
juveniles, Santa Claus. This imaginary
personage is pictured out as a little old
man, dressed in furs, hung with bells, and
carrying a huge pack on his back, contain-
ing all kinds of toys; he is also represented
as being very fond of music—which, by 
the way, would not require a great stretch
of the imagination to believe, after seeing
the great amount and variety of musical
instruments which he distributes, and list-
ening on Christmas morning to the confus-
ing din occasioned by the whistles, harps,
trumpets, bells, etc., etc. But who, not-
withstanding the noise, can look on those
happy, joyous, innocent faces, and not par-
ticipate in their pleasure and enjoyment,
and feel in their hearts to offer up a prayer
of thanksgiving unto God for His innu-
merable blessings?
	Oh! that all little ones were as comfort-
able and as well provided for as are the 
majority of ours in Utah, where the chil-
dren of different mothers, all belonging to

[Column 2]
the same happy family, may gather around
the same hearthstone, and around the same
"Christmas tree," each sharing alike in the
presents of all sorts with which it is decor-
ated, as they share equally in the love and
affections, and each bear the name of the
same father. But, alas! a very different
picture is presented in many parts of the
world, judging from accounts which are
furnished us by the newspapers. Christ-
mas, with its attendant frost and snow,
brings to many naught but increased mis-
ery, woe and wretchedness, which beggars
all description, visiting the homes of the 
poor with terrible want and suffering, pierc-
ing to the very bones the scantily clothed
mendicant on the street, nipping the toes
of the poor little homeless, barefooted ur-
chins, truly verifying the lines of a poem
which I remember once having read: "'Tis
a most bitter lot to be poor when it snows."
	When I read accounts of so much suffer-
ing and distress, I can but wonder if there
is a mother in the land who has the where-
with to alleviate the suffering of a human
being, whose heart is not touched by the
accounts which we hear of so much suffer-
ing and distress, and especially those who
are surrounded by it. Have people become
hardened to such sights? or, if not, how
can they go on in their extravagance, wast-
ing, for worse than useless purposes, that
which would save the life of a fellow-crea-
ture, who may be perishing for a morsel of
bread? Oh, what inconsistency! Such a
state of things as this certainly cannot be
right, and I firmly believe that when the
nations shall be fully ripened in iniquity,
these things will be somewhat changed,
and the innocent will not have to sufier
with the guilty.
							KATE.
	St. George.


