BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	On the Nov. 10th, Mrs. L. B. Pratt, Beaver,
celebrated her 77th birthday. A party of
gentlemen and ladies assembled at her
residence at an early hour P. M. counselor
L. M. Shepherd was called to the chrir
Patriarch J. Crosby was chosen chaplain.
There were a large number of ladies and
gentlemen in attendance, all with hearty
congratulations that their aged friend had at-
tained to such an advanced stage of life and
so well retained both her physical and men-
tal powers. Father H. J. White now in his
82d year made a spirited and commendable
speech; refering to his long acquaintance
with "Sister Pratt," even reaching back to
the early days of San Bernardino, before
his "hair was white like his name," and
she was comparatively a youthful woman:
full of energy and zeal for the cause of
truth; his high respect and friendship for
her had continued undiminished; he prayed
they might both "continue several years
longer, and abide steadfast in the faith, fear
and love of God, and of the great Latter-day
Work," all responded a hearty Amen:
Judge Cox spoke of the firm friendship and
intimacy that had existed between his
family and that of his honored friend for
more than a quarter of a century, testified to
her faithfulness in sustaining her family in
her long widowhood, while her husband
preached the Gospel on the distant Islands
of the Sea. Many of the sisters of the
Relief Society made appropriate remarks,
full of kindness and sympathy; Sisters
Cox, and Houd, referred to one trait in their
friend's character more prominent than any
other, that was, "her ability to discern beauty
where many persons would see only de-
formity; thus resembling the poet Robert
Burns." In the midst of the exercises a
serenading party came to the door; were
invited in, and entertained the company
with beautiful music. There were songs
and recitations, anecdotes and hymns,
Mrs. Pratt read the minutes of a former
anniversary, which was very amusing.
Wm. Fotheringham entertained the com-

[Column 2]
pany with an interesting account of his first
acquaintance with Sister Pratt and her
daughter, on his return from a mission to
India, and his stay in San Bernardino. He
also surprised the party with a comic song;
and more than surprized were they to have
a song from the septuagenarian; very amus-
ing and unexpected. The picnic was a
credit to every one who aided in preparing
it. The wishes and prophecies that went
round would give to "the lady" many more
returns, in health and peace, and the
annual assemblage of her friends to cheer
and comfort her; a happy deliverance when
called to bid adieu to mortal life, leaving
her nothing to regret but a separation, from
so many loving friends. A vote was taken to
have the minutes published, and to adjourn
the party to meet again the 10th, of Nov.
1880. Adjourned for the 4th, time.
On motion of the chaplain the company all
standing, sang,

"Oh, my father thou that dwellest
In the high and glorious place."

	Sister Pratt closed her acknowledgment
for favors and presents received, in the
following words

I thank my friends most cordially,
For kind attentions unto me;
I bless you all with life and peace,
And from all sin a full release.
May you all have a life as long
As mine, and be as brave and strong.
And ne'er be found in greater wrong.

