CHRISTMAS AGAIN.
 Joy, Peace and Good-will to all, these are
the 'Christmas Tidings'. The message the
blessed Savior brought “Behold I bring you
good tidings of great joy which shall be to
all people.” Year after year, generation
after generation, the time honored custom
of commemorating the birth of the infant
Jesus, in that way peculiar to the different
varieties of people and their ideas of his
divine mission, has prevailed all over the
civilized world, until it is looked forward to
as an established fact, that on that eventful
day something good, some real blessing
must came to all.  Families and friends
unite in making the time one of festive
recreation and social enjoyment.  Little
children have been taught from the time
they could lisp to say “A merry Christmas”
and look forward to the day as one fuller of
happiness than any other in all the year.
One of the simplest methods of pleasing the
little folks is that of hanging up the stock-
ing, which they expect will be filled with
“goodies” and precious gifts from “Santa
Claus" or those who love them best.  And
the little ones delight scarcely overbalances
that of the mother.
	How many blessed mothers, all over our
broad, fair land dwell with eager expecta-
tion upon the pleasure Christmas will bring
to the happy household; and sad indeed is
the mother,s  heart  when  in  anticipation
of the  once joyful Christmas,  there  is  one
vacant place, one little empty stocking laid
carefully away in the drawer, with many
other precious mementoes of  a  loved  one,
things she dare not look upon lest the scald-
ing tears burst from their hidden fountains,
and drown in the  depths of  grief,  all  the
joyousness of those who still remain.  Alas,
for the tender mothers whose aching hearts,
brood, unwillingly perhaps, over the absent
ones who, like “Rachel’s babes are not.”
But remember the Christmas Tidings joy
and good-will and peace to all, and of your
abundance if with such God hath blessed
you, minister to the poor and the needy.
Make glad the heart of some other  mother,
and your own home will be blessed.
	There are many little ones, who have not 
the delicacies and luxuries yours may have,
that you may cheer and gladden: and many
a poor orphan, who longs for love and for 
tender words, on such bestow sweet smiles,
your gentle words and charities “The
poor ye have with you always," precious
words speaking to the poor, human heart
reminding it of duties that bring peace and
a blessed reward.  How many beautiful
things our good Savior  said for the poor.
Christmas then should indeed be fitting
time for sweet charity.
	There are many aged people, traveling
the down-hill of life who are fit subjects for
Christmas Gifts.  Yes, many care-worn and
sad, whom Dame Fortune has never smiled
upon, or has now forsaken, who have less
gladness than even the little ones of the
poor; for children though poor and ragged
and dirty seem always to carry with them a
sort of magnetic charm, that belongs speci-
ally to childhood and touches with a melt-
ing tenderness the hardest heart.  It carries
one back in remembrance to their own help-
less years, it speaks in a language unmis-
takable of the mother, the home, the hap-
piness of the past  and calls out  in  strong
swelling currents  the true  affections.  But
with the aged there is another kind of feel-
ing, which does not involve so  many  pleas-
ant  reminiscences.  All the more do they
need sympathy when  they are  poor and
unfortunate, their hopes  in  life  crushed,
and no brave strong arm to lean upon, only
God and the living faith in his holy Gospel,
and wanting this thay  are  poor  indeed.
Oh, ye whose lives have been cast in pleas-
ant places, whose homes teem with plenty,
remember the aged poor whose footsteps
grow more feeble as they  near that haven
of rest, where all sorrows are wiped away;
and ere this Christmas comes let your boun-
ties be dispensed to the desolate ones; greet
them with kindnesses and comforts; cheer
some lonely heart, and in blessing ye will
be truly blessed, for the promises of Christ
never fail.
	Ho, for the merry Christmas with all its
gay festivities and pastimes. Gather the
beautiful, the bright and the picturesque
of all kinds, to gladden the home and cheer
the inmates on this day of days.  Let  the
house resound with childrens’ fresh, young
voices in gladsome sport and hesitate not to
join them, but be sure you have truly made
light some gloomy hearthstone, carried a
welcome offering to some of the many who
need attention.  The custom of decorating
with evergreens and scarlet flowers or ber-
ries is pretty and really should be encour-
aged.  It is beautiful to see the rooms hung
with festoons of running vines, fresh and
green, or if they are  not available, boughs
of pine, or cedar and ornamented with such
real,  or artificial trimmings as  can  be  pro-
ocured.  Autumn  leaves  carefully  pressed
and arranged help to make an  artistic and
charming finish, and all these things  assist
the cultivation of refinement in the  human
heart.  Winter flowers how  they  speak to
us in their silent language when all without
is bleak and cold.
	Christmas is coming: let us not only pre-
pare our homes, but our hearts  for the fes-
tive occasion: and while we  ornament our
rooms and our tables, and polish and garnish
and decorate, let us  look  into  our  own
hearts and see to it, that we root out selfish-
ness and envy and jealousy and substitute
grace and gentleness and the charity which
thinketh no evil; that all may be in harmony
and the angels of the Holy presence sit with
us at our feasts, and no unclean thing enter
into our abodes to destroy our peace of
mind, that we may have no regrets for the 
day.
