BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The Theatre has, in these days, so degen-
erated and so individualized itself, that one
feels almost to recoil in connecting it with
the Temple, yet it is certain they were
"born united," and in the early ages went
hand in hand in their glorious work of elevat-
ing, purifying and instructing the mighty
audiences that thronged the mighty edifices
of that age; and it is a mistaken idea to con-
sider those days as the "dark ages"—the
grandest minds were the "lights of the
world" in those days. Christianity was
not then upon the earth, but there was a
code of morals and manners far surpassing
later days, that are called the "enlightened."
And in the still earlier ages, the Theatre
and the Temple were one and the same
sanctuary— the religion of the ancients
took the form of popular shows; the very
arts had their birth at the foot of the altar.
The dance itself was introduced into reli-
gious assemblies. We learn this in one 
way—in reading that King David himself
danced before the ark, when bringing it in
triumph to the House of God. No one who
reads that scene understandingly can be-

[Column 2]
lieve there was the least lightness, or lev-
ity, in the performance. Every act is beau-
tiful and artistic when the spirit dictates
the body—and most especially when the
spirit is cultivated and refined, and dictated
to by the Spirit of God. Then there is a
power and a beauty that is irresistible. For
the display and demonstration of this, the
Theatre should be the legitamized organ—
a school for morals and for manners, for ar-
tistic beauty in its highest forms; and the
love of this lies deep in a thousand souls
that, alas! have never had the wand of cul-
tivation passed over them. Still, their
spirits are like a fine instrument, complete
in all its appendages, but needs the hand of
the musician to strike the chords that will
respond to the inspired touch. Watch the
absorbing interest of an honest audience
whose whole souls are engrossed by the
complex web developed before them, re-
joicing and applauding with sound hearts
and ringing voices at every escape from
peril, every successful achievement of a be
ing struggling with oppression, and bat-
tling manfully for his or her rights, and
who—who ever heard the mighty heartfelt
shout which so often rings and re-echoes
from parquette to gallery, coming from the
heart and going to the heart, when, in the 
end, by one great master-stroke, the bad is
struck down and the good soars aloft tri
umphant—whoever has heard this and be-
lieves not in the true, leal honesty, and had
not all faith in the good hearts and right
feeling which gave it birth? When a great
truth is uttered, a sharp and needed rebuke
inflicted, a stinging cut struck into vanity,
or hypocrisy, then such applause, endorsing
it, is a good and wholesome sound, and one
that puts us in good humor with humanity.
Yes, to evoke what is good in our hearts,
to summon forth the holy spark, which of-
ten lurks there unseen, but still unquenched,
to make us feel that despite the cold, selfish
crust, which long struggling with life, and
experience of some of its hollowness, is too
apt to encumber us with, that at the bot-
tom, the well of heart is still bright and
gushing, and that its streams can still leap
forth sparkling and fertilizing. To prove
all this, we have but to witness some noble,
deep, thrilling, dramatic performance, em-
bodied by men and women capable of com-
prehending the great authors. And there
are but very few clerical orators and teach-
ers of sacred things that can so waken up
the dormaut faculties, call out the strong
aspiration to imitate the glo[-]ious model
presented to their eye and heart.
	Why could not some of the strong and 
highly dramatic scenes of Scripture be
brought before the eyes of audiences, and
be made a powerful lever to awaken so
much religious feeling that lies dormant in
so many souls? Breaking up new ground
in many a now almost dormant heart and
brain. Why not? I fancy I have heard
something of this mooted by some party,
but am not clear on the point. To many, at
the present-time, the Scriptures are a sacred
book; to others it is "dry and uninterest-
ing." There is a cause for this, and let
every mother see that such apathy in a
yonug mind does not lie at her door; there
is not a little child born but might grow up
loving the Scriptures, and desiring to imi-
tate its models, if its infant mind was im-
bued with its simple but sublime pictures.
	One single family, six years ago—and
more especially two of its members—ele-
vated the London stage and all its compli-
cated appendages, till it did almost super-
cede the pulpit. The grand theatres were
thronged every night to suffocation. Men
and women rushed to the Theatre, that they

[Column 3]
might be lifted into a region, they had not
before dreamed of. Men whose eyes had
not shed tears since they could remember,
were melted down to "play the woman"
with their eyes, as a relief to their wrought-
up souls; their hardness was gone, their
souls became "clay in the hands of the pot-
ter;" they were ready to be laid on any
altar, so that they could but attain, if even
but a few stops, to the models so wonder-
fully portrayed before them. Men and
women left those scenes awakened to better
things—to arise to a higher platform than
they had yet stood upon. It is right and
good to awaken the senses as well as the
heart; they go hand in hand. All the fac-
ulties are given to make a perfect whole.
Mrs. Siddons and her brother, John Kem-
ble, were the magicians who wielded this
mighty power over a population of nearly
four millions—besides—the—provinces—and
their characters, as a man and woman, as a
lady and gentlemen, that even royalty de-
lighted to honor, stood before the country
fair and unimpeached. Their sculptured
forms are in the National galleries to day,
as well as their pictures by the first artists.
There were other stars revolving around
these planets, altogether forming a galaxy
that made the stage of that era a wonder
and a theme. Could not such a stage go
hand in hand with the pulpit, and one
unitedly assist the other? If not, why not?
Is a vitiated public taste always to be pan-
dered to, till the sense of what really 'is
great, and grand, and elevating, is lost sight
of, and lightness, and levity, and empty
nothingness, is held up as "splendid,"
"beautiful," exquisite," and a host of other
extreme adjectives, the sublime and the
grand being put down as passe, old-fash-
ioned, etc. Let such be told, there is an
Eternal Beauty that never grows old, an
eternal sublimity that nothing can destroy;
and in this beauty and this sublimity is
God! in whatever place it is exhibited, and
by whatever instrument it is exemplied.
	Wherever perfection in any way is at-
tained, there we can behold the finger of
God, and mark his footprints. The time is
approaching when every heart shall be
awakened to this Almighty Beauty that
will attract the heart and brain and intel-
lect; that has the power to soften the hard,
awaken the apathetic, arouse the intelligent,
till they shall become as Gods, and wield a
power that shall bend and break, and bring
all pliable by the soft and gentle hand of
the love and beauty of God.


COQUETRY.—Few women have the stami-
na to refuse an opportunity to flirt. No
woman will admit that she is a flirt, and
y[-]t how few can resign a chance to flirt
with an agreeable gentleman, when such a 
flirtation becomes an eligible indulgence!
There is always an excitement in the at-
tempt to capture a man's affections which
is too inspiring, perhaps, to be neglected;
but there' is an odium attached to the ex-
citement which no woman relishes. They
love the pursuit, but fear the character it
occasions. And the same remarks will ap-
ply to men as well as women; for what is
more contemptible than a male flirt? The
man who loves to win, merely for amuse-
ment, the affections of a woman, is no more
to be respected than the woman who is ad-
dicted to the game of captivating, for the
momentary pleasure it affords, the hearts
of men.


SENATOR Thurman, it is said, is probably
the most accomplished scholar now in Con-
gress.


