[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Gabriels Colton]
Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 4—"Gabriel's Annunciation of John and Jesus" "The Babe of Bethlehem" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapters 7 and 8, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, January 6, 1948
Objective: To show that the coming of John the Baptist and Jesus Christ was announced by an angel sent from God; and that their births fulfilled great promises by angels and prophets. THE circumstances surrounding the birth of our Lord are hallowed by heavenly manifestations. One who believes is always inspired and lifted up by the story that "'never grows old."
There was a very close relationship between the coming of Jesus, the Savior, and the birth of John the Baptist about six months before. The latter was a great prophet, whose mission was Closely identified with the beginning of the work of the Redeemer.
Zacharias was a priest of the Aaronic order, who officiated in the temple. His wife Elisabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. It had been a source of deep regret to this couple that they were childless, and they were well stricken in years. On an important day to the Jews, it had fallen to the lot of Zacharias to officiate during one of the most sacred ceremonies of the temple. He was separated from the Holy of Holies by the veil of the temple. At the supreme moment of his sacred Page 702 service, an angel of the Lord appeared to the astonished priest. So far as we know, this was the first appearance of a heavenly messenger to a Jew in many generations. No doubt, they had grown to believe, as most Christians now believe, that such things were of the past and did not occur. The messenger announced that he was Gabriel, an angel who stood in the presence of God; that he, Gabriel, had come to apprise Zacharias that his wife Elisabeth would bear him a son; that the child to be born would be a great blessing to the people; and that he would be great in the sight of the Lord. He was to be reared a clean young man, and guarded against the use of strong drink. (The writer asks indulgence to digress long enough to urge the sisters of the Relief Society to study the first chapter of Daniel. You will get the reason for this injunction to the parents of John the Baptist. ' It will be an excellent opportunity to emphasize the relationship between LESSON DEPARTMENT a clean body and a calling in the service of the Master. ) The promise to the priest and his aged wife seemed impossible, and he asked the angel how it could be.
Because of his doubt, Zacharias was stricken dumb until the promise was fulfilled. He remained dumb until the day that John was named at the time he was circumcised, at which time, also, there was a great manifestation oft he gift and power of the Holy Ghost (Luke 1:57-80).
There was no greater prophet in Israel than John the Baptist.
About three months before John the Baptist was born, the angel Gabriel was sent, also, to a devout young woman living at Nazareth, in Galilee.
This young woman was of the royal lineage of David, and her name was Mary. She was unmarried, but was betrothed to Joseph, who was also a descendant of David, Israel's greatly revered former king. The angel's message to Mary was, perhaps, the most beautiful that had yet fallen on women's ears: " . . . .Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art though among women” (Luke 1:28) It is reasonable to believe that all of the faithful daughters of Israel looked forward with joy to the time when the Messiah would come.
They knew that some pure Jewish maiden would be his mother. Surely, no greater honor or blessing could come to a woman. The angel told Mary that she would conceive in her womb and bring forth a child and should call his name Jesus (Luke 1:30-33).
That he should "be called the Son of the Highest .... and of his kingdom there shall be no end." To her inquiry as to how it could be, seeing that she was a virgin, the angel explained: The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God (Luke 1:35).
This humble and pure girl replied: Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word . . . (Luke 1:38).
The joy that came to Mary with the knowledge that she was to be the mother of "the Only Begotten" Son of Elohim, the Eternal Father, in the flesh, was also accompanied by some natural misgivings.
Mary had visited her cousin Elisabeth in Judea and had, no doubt, received strength and assurance when informed of the approaching birth of the fetter's child. The Holy Ghost prompted Elisabeth to say to Mary: Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? (Luke 1:42-43). (Read also Luke 1:46-55).When Mary returned from her visit to Elisabeth "she was found with child." Joseph, a just and good man, was much troubled when: .... behold the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost (Matt. 1:20). Joseph's joy was great. He was of royal descent, and he knew now RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1947 that there would be no shadow cast upon his family status. The angel's greeting: "Joseph thou son of David," is very significant.
Joseph immediately married Mary, ".... And knew. Her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name Jesus" (Matt. 1:25). The Son of David born to Mary was, in reality, the King Emmanuel, the Redeemer of the world. The Babe of Bethlehem The prophets not only foresaw the birth of the Messiah, but they also fixed the place of his birth at Bethlehem, a small village in Judea. Both Mary and Joseph lived in Nazareth, a considerable distance from Bethlehem. We must bear in mind that the Jews were subjects of the Roman Empire, and that Herod was only a dependent king, an appointee of the Emperor. A decree had been issued by Augustus, the Roman Emperor, that all of the Jewish people must be enrolled for the purpose of taxation. In obedience to the requirements of this decree, Mary and Joseph went to Bethlehem, their city, and the city where David, their royal ancestor, spent much of his early life. No doubt, Herod arranged all the details of the census, and for the collection of the taxes. It was while on this trip that one of the earth's greatest events took place. Our Lord was born amidst humble surroundings. He was born during a "camping out" trip, but, probably, considering the customs of the day, not in such abject poverty as is sometimes pictured. Nevertheless, it is marvelous that Jesus Christ, the Only Begotten in the flesh of the LESSON DEPARTMENT Eternal Father, was cradled in a manger. Later, it was said that he descended below all things that he might rise above all things.
There is nothing more beautiful and thrilling in all literature than the description found in Luke 2:8-14 of the birth of the Master. It would be well for all to memorize those verses. No wonder a heavenly choir was sent. If that same angelic choir could again sing of a time when, in reality, there would be universal peace and "good will toward _ men," it would be the sweetest music of all the ages.
Well might it be said, "But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart" (Luke 2:19).
Joseph and Mary, both being Jews, strictly obeyed the Jewish laws and its requirements. It was required that every mother remain in retirement for forty days.
Joseph became the legal father of Jesus. In accordance with requirements, Jesus was taken to the temple by his parents and all ceremonials strictly observed. Simeon, one of the few Israelites who had remained true to God and who had been promised by the Holy Ghost that he would not die until he had seen the Christ, was in the temple when the baby Jesus was presented. By the same spirit, Simeon recognized the Child and, lifting him up, said: "Lord, now lettest thy serv- _ant depart in peace, according to thy word: For mine eyes have seen thy salvation" (Luke 2:29-30). It is but natural that rumors of all these wonderful happenings should finally reach the ears of Herod. He was disturbed. He was not a Jew. He was a bitterly hated Edomite, one of the posterity of Esau, who had 705 pretended to be converted to Judaism.
Herod summoned the wise men and the scribes and chief priests to ascertain where Christ should be born. He was told that the birth would be at Bethlehem. He directed the wise men to find the Babe and, as soon as he was found, to bring word to the king, "that I may come and worship him also." 'These wise men found Mary and Joseph and immediately recognized the Royal Child. However, as soon as they had given him costly presents, they did not return to Jerusalem. "And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way" (Matt. 2:12).
Joseph was directed by an angel to take the young Child into Egypt and remain there until directed by the same personage to return. He was obedient to this command and thereby escaped the terrible massacre of all children in Bethlehem "from two years old and under." All of the worthwhile events surrounding the birth of Jesus were made known to the Nephites on the Western Hemisphere. The Lord kept the faithful advised of developments.
Because of our imperfect chronological records, it has been very difficult to fix the exact date of the Messiah's birth. We have good evidence that it was not December 25, but April 6 (D. & C. 20:1). Certainly, the events surrounding his birth would indicate springtime rather than winter when there were "shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their.
Flocks by night." 706
