[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Jacobs]
Modesty is still a virtue, and a girl she exhibits in his presence. Tue, first partake of those things that excite passions within them or lower their resistance and becloud their minds. Many, many temptations and suggestions of evil beset young people on every hand today through cheap magazines, current books of fiction, motion pictures, etc. Earnest parents realize that the greatest safeguard comes from proper training in a home. The right kind of period RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1947
Save More! — 9:30 a. M. To 6:00 p. M. Friday Evenings Until 9.00 p. M. A fascinating book! Letters of a Latter-day Saint youth's experiences in the army—a book to touch your heart. An Ideal Christmas Gift Autographed Mail orders $2.00 postpaid "LESSON DEPARTMENT to introduce the habit of reading aloud from good books in the family when the children are small. In this way they acquire a taste for that which is best. Suggestive stories, off-color jokes, have no place in the home, and children should be instructed not to listen to them outside the home. Wholesome recreation is the best outlet for the emotions. Skating, horseback riding, dancing, swimming, tennis, baseball, or other similar sports should be encouraged and planned for. Young people should be urged _ to avail themselves of good courses on marriage and courtship, matriology, and child psychology. In our universities today young people clamor for such instruction. Long waiting lists attest the fact that they are eager to prepare themselves for the important responsibilities of life. Our religion is a great checkrein to temptation. It gives us a long-range program of life and shows us that committing certain evils retards our progression and will keep us out of the celestial kingdom. It gives us spiritual food from which we derive strength to combat the temptations of everyday life and an assurance that the price of obedience is cheap for the reward we ultimately gain. Parents should be ever on guard to let nothing attack the citadel of chastity. "Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty." Additional Reference Dr. Harold T. Christensen: "Problems of Personal Conduct," particularly that portion under sub-heading "'Unchastity," social science lesson published in The Relief Society Magazine, August 1945, Pp- 509, 510. 7
Professional Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS | RONIE JOHNSON SALT LAKE MUNUMENT CUMPANY Phone 4-4025
Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Salt Lake City 29 RICHARDS STREET SALT LAKE CITY I, UTAH
