[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Seventy-fifth Birthday Irvine]

Through seventy-five years of its life, the Relief Society organ has affected the results the hopes, the faith, and the vision of its originators. It has evolved from the humble but valiant first issue of the Woman's Exponent to the compact, modern, enterprising Magazine of today. In keeping with the Latter-day Saint belief in eternal progression, some new features are constantly being added. SEVENTY -FIFTH BIRTHDAY YEAR Tt would be a difficult matter to separate the editorial work from the policies of the General Board.
While each editor has put into her work much of her own personality, she has adhered strictly to the spirit of the Society. The editors, with the exception of Mrs. Richards, have all been General Board members.
Being the official mouthpiece of the Gen. Eral Board, this priceless journal has expounded the decisions and policies of that body for the benefit of its readers, keeping them in keen awareness of the workings of the heads of their Society. AMONG the many progressive ideas put into effect by the General Board in their weekly meetings, the following two are worthy of note in connection with this article and its subject. As in the beginning, when the Exponent published much excellent poetry and special articles, through the years encouragement has been given to writers to contribute to the publication.
Many new writers, with this opportunity, have developed embryonic talents and an appreciation for good literature. To further this valuable design, yearly prize poetry contests and short story contests have been added.
These competitions afford an incentive to all Latter-day Saint girls and women to develop their powers of expressing their thoughts and emotions. 655
The contests have a tendency to develop mental energy and ambition, and have resulted in bringing forth many poems and stories of real merit which have been published in the Magazine.
Through the years, the women's publication has been guided and directed by the General Presidents of Relief Society.
They have met and advised with the editors constantly concerning the broad policies of the Magazine and lent their wisdom to necessary decisions.
There is no truer saying than that, "The old order changeth." And while the present Magazine is vastly different from the Woman's Exponent, the high standards of the original have been maintained. But in many respects it has kept pace with its three quarters of a century age, its editors believing that "Where there is no vision the people perish." So now in its seventy-fifth birthday year, the official organ of the women of the Church is carrying on the work, progressing with the times, constantly seeing visions of future advancement, and stil] sustaining the ideals of its inception. It is a living, vital medium of inspiration and guidance to Latter-day Saint women throughout the world, a magazine of which every Relief Society woman, and in fact every Church member, has reason to be justly proud.