[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Vesta P. Crawford Sharp]

Governor William Preston Lane, Jr. Of Maryland shakes hands with President Smith. The President's two daughters, Mrs. Robert Murray Stewart and Mrs. George O. Elliott, stand in the receiving line. Vesta P. Crawford Appointed Associate Editor of The Relief Society Magazine Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor, General Presidency of Relief Society HE General Presidency of Relief Society is pleased to announce, as of October 1, 1947, the appointment of Vesta Pierce Crawford as associate editor of The Relief Society Magazine. Sister Crawford has served as editorial secretary for the past two years.
During that time, she has exhibited a keen interest and competency in all phases of editorial work.
Vesta is richly endowed with creative powers as a writer of both poetry and prose. It was a happy discovery to find that these gifts were combined with a capacity for hard, methodical work and a care for details  a combination but rarely joined.
Vesta has manifested her love of the gospel by her willingness to serve in Church auxiliaries in different capacities. She is the daughter of Sylvester Pierce, a rancher of Gunnison, Utah, and the late Alice Maude Redington Pierce. Her husband, Arthur L. Crawford, is a Commissioner in the Utah State Department of Publicity and Industrial Development.
Without his understanding and patience, it would be impossible for Vesta to devote so much time to duties outside her home.
They have one daughter, Marian, a student at Brigham Young University. Vesta's prose and poetry have won recognition in many national periodicals, as well as in The Relief Society Magazine itself. She won first place in the Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest in 1935 and 1946, first place in the short story contest in 1944, and over a period of years has been a contributor to the Magazine. Page
664 VESTA P. CRAWFORD Alice Louise Reynolds, a former editor of the Magazine, Vesta's teacher in literature at B. Y. U., was most kind and helpful in urging her to develop her writing skill.
Vesta continued to study at Stanford University and later at the University of Wyoming, where she won her master's degree in English. The General Board of Relief Society is proud of the new associate editor and expects, with her great talents, to have The Relief Society Magazine grow and deepen in Significance to the women of the Church.