[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1887 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" WOMAN'S VOICE: The Gospel, or the building up of the kingdom, gives all who desire to be useful an opportunity to cultivate their talents, extend their usefulness and be a blessing to mankind, by assisting to build up and promote all the interests of Zion. M. E. Teasdale HOME MANUFACTURES: The manufacture of soaps of various grades has now become a settled and paying business. A fine quality of hats is also made.
Boots and shoes and clothing, glass, white lead, lead pipe, native paints, brushes, paper, printing type, starch, pearl barley, and oatmeal are all manufactured in the Terntory, and many of these articles in sufficient quantity to meet the local demand and to export to some extent. Wilford Woodruff IDLENESS: Industry is honorable; idleness is degrading. Girls, in making choice of a husband, shun the idler, or the person who wishes to make a living without work. If there are any of your acquaintances who think there are better ways of making a living than by honest labor, they are mistaken, and beware of allowing your affections to go out toward them in the least. Hattie Adams A DELIGHTFUL MEETING: The meeting of the sisters; held in the 14th Ward (Salt Lake City) September 3rd, was of unusual interest. Counselor E.
Howard was addressing the congregation from the stand, when surprise and joy suddenly filled every heart and lighted up every countenance.
This happy effect was occasioned by the entering, unannounced, of Zion's venerable, honored and beloved poetess, Sister Eliza R. Snow.
This being her first appearance in public since her recovery from the very severe illness which she has lately endured, it was no wonder that the hearts of her sisters should overflow with unspeakable pleasure and gratitude at again beholding her in their midst  L. G. R. REMINISCENCES I stood beside the self-same rippling brook, The soft winds whispered to me as of yore, And all the landscape wore the conscious look Of having known me many years before. All things familiar seemed, and yet how strange, To think in me how passing great the change.
Selected MAKE FRIENDS: _Life is very critical. Any word may be our last. Any farewell, even among joy and merriment, may be forever. If this truth were but burned into our consciousness, would it not make us far more tender than we sometimes are?
Munsford's Magazine GEMS The seeds of love can never grow but under the warm and genial influence of kindly feelings and affectionate manners. I believe in the democracy of the family. If in this world there is anything splendid, it is a home where all are equal.
Selected Page 670