[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Epistles of Driggs]

After one pattern has been altered to properly fit your figure, it can be used as a basis or foundation on which to work in future sewing. Literature —Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 4—Epistles of the Doctrine and Covenants Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 20, 1948
Objective: To appreciate the Doctrine and Covenants as literature through a discussion of the letters of the Prophet to the saints and the word of the Lord to the Prophet while a prisoner in the jail at Liberty, Missouri. THE Prophet Joseph Smith wrote many epistles during the closing years of his earthly ministry while he was in and about Missouri and Nauvoo, Illinois. His persecutions had become so great that he was constantly sought by the law. He would be taken for no just cause and forced to spend some time in prison. Here, under the most trying conditions, he sought and found his Maker. Then, in the true spirit of a prophet, he poured forth his heart in love and understanding. This was LESSON DEPARTMENT done by means of his pen. How often, either in jail or in hiding from his enemies, did he write to the saints is not exactly known. However, there are recorded for our edification and instruction many beautiful, inspired passages of his work as sections of the Doctrine and Covenants. It is to these writings that we would now address our thinking. There is something about a letter considered from a literary point of view that is different from an expression of thought delivered in person. A servant of the Lord may with fervor hold a listener as he relates a principle of the gospel. The tone of his voice, the intense look in his eye, the turn of his head, the gesture of his arm, all will add to his message— even compensate for any lack of literary excellence. Have you not sometimes been impressed by the fiery words of a speaker only to learn, later, when you read what he has said, that in print much of the force of his address has gone? It is true that in writing one must substitute form for personality. By this we mean, in part, the literary qualities about which we have been talking in these lessons. The economy of words, the choice of words, the effective use of words in sentence patterns—all must take the place of the personal power that holds a listener in platform delivery. In the main, the epistles to the saints found in the Doctrine and Covenants are prose in style. There are places where a lyric quality breaks through and the reader is made to feel the song of praise in the writer's heart. One such type of writing is to be found in the 122 section of the 709
Doctrine and Covenants, in the word of the Lord to Joseph Smith the Prophet while a prisoner in the jail at Liberty, Missouri.
Here the Lord speaks to the troubled heart of the Prophet with comforting assurance, and he feels in his inner soul the earthly sorrow through which he must pass even unto death. The Lord gives solace, then, by helping him to understand that the greatest blessings come to one who endures all to the end, even as the Savior did.
Note the beauty of this writing: The ends of the earth shall inquire after thy name, and fools shall have thee in derision, and hell shall rage against thee; while the pure in heart, and the wise, and the noble, and the virtuous, shall seek counsel, and authority, and blessings constantly from under thy hand. And thy people shall never be turned against thee by the testimony of traitors. And although their influence shall cast thee into trouble, and into bars and walls, thou shalt be had in honor; and but for a small moment and thy voice shall be more terrible in the midst of thine enemies than the fierce lion, because of thy righteousness; and thy God shall stand by thee forever and ever. If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea; if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring, and thine elder son, although but six years of age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say, My father, my father, why can't you stay with us? O, my father, what are the men going to do with you? And if then he shall be thrust from thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to prison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves for the blood of the lamb; and if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon 710 thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he? Therefore, hold on thy way, and the priesthood shall remain with thee; for their bounds are set, they cannot pass. Thy days are known, and thy years shall not be numbered less; therefore, fear not what man can do, for God shall be with you forever and ever (122). The characteristic love which the Prophet had for his friends is to be found in the 123 section of the Doctrine and Covenants.
This inspired epistle was written in the same month of March and in the same year, 1839, as was section 122. The subject to which he addressed himself was the "Duty of the Saints in relation to their persecutors." He tells his followers that they must be diligent in keeping records of the names and deeds of those who have wronged them, which can be used as a witness against the evil doers.
Even as he writes, there is a spirit of love for those who strike at him and his cause. He lashes out in figurative language against the sin, not the sinner, in such phrases as "the combinations of darkness," the "iron yoke," "the very handcuffs, and chains and shackles, and fetters of hell." His words would stamp out iniquity with cutting sharpness, in writing at least, since he was denied, in person, denunciation of these wrongs. He concludes: Therefore, dearly beloved brethren, let us cheerfully do all things that lie in our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1947 power; and then may we stand still, with the utmost assurance, to see the salvation of God, and for his arm to be revealed (123:17).
Activities and Readings for Appreciation In this lesson the class might well assume the role of a group of saints who lived in the troublesome days of Nauvoo. In such an imaginative thought, one may come close to hearing the Prophet actually speak.
Such is the effect of having some good reader of the group read aloud an epistle from Joseph Smith. Use the 127 and 128 sections of the Doctrine and Covenants in this way. For example, in the following selection: As I stated to you in my letter before I left my place, that I would write to you from time to time and give you information in relation to many subjects, I now resume the subject of the baptism for the dead, as that subject seems to occupy my mind, and press itself upon my feelings the strongest, since I have been pursued by my enemies. I wrote a few words of revelation to you concerning a recorder. | have had a few additional views in relation to this matter, which I now certify.
That is, it was declared in my former letter that there should be a recorder, who should be eye-witness, and also to hear with his ears, that he might make a record of a truth before the Lord. Now, in relation to this matter, it would be very difficult for one recorder to be present at all times, and to do all the business. To obviate this difficulty, there can be a recorder appointed in each ward of the city, who is well qualified for taking accurate minutes; and let him be very particular and precise in taking the whole proceedings, certifying in his record that he saw with his eyes, and heard with his ears, giving the date, and names, and so forth, and the history of the whole transaction; naming also some three individuals that are present, if there be any present, who can at any time when called upon certify to the same, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Then, let there be a general recorder, to whom these other LESSON DEPARTMENT records can be handed, being attended with certificates over their own signatures, certifying that the record they have made is true.
Then the general church recorder can enter the record on the general church book, with the certificates and all the attending witnesses, with his own statement that he verily believes the above statement and records to be true, from his knowledge of the general character and appointment of those men by the church. And when this is done on the general church book, the record shall be just as holy, and shall answer the ordinance just the same as if he had seen with his eyes and heard with his ears, and made a record of the same on the general Church book. You may think this order of things to be very particular; but let me tell you that it is only to answer the will of God, by conforming to the ordinance and preparation that the Lord ordained and prepared before the foundation of the world, for the salvation of the dead who should die without a knowledge of the gospel. And further, I want you to remember that John the Revelator was contemplating this very subject in relation to the dead, when he declared, as you will find recorded in Revelation 20:12—''And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." You will discover in this quotation that the books were opened; and another book was opened, which was the book of life; but the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works; consequently, the books spoken of must be the books which contained the record of their works, and refer to the records which are kept on the earth. And the book which was the book of life is the record which is kept in heaven; the principle agreeing precisely with the doctrine which is commanded you in the revelation contained in the letter which I wrote to you previous to my leaving my place—that in all your recordings it may be recorded in heaven. Now, the nature of this ordinance consists in the power of the priesthood, by the revelation of Jesus Christ, wherein it is 711 granted that whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Or, in other words, taking a different view of the translation, whatsoever you record on earth shall be recorded in heaven, and whatsoever you do not record on earth shall not be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own propria persona, or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead. It may seem to some to be a very bold doctrine that we talk of—a power which records or binds on earth and binds in heaven. Nevertheless, in all ages of the world, whenever the Lord has given a dispensation of the priesthood to any man by actual revelation, or any set of men, this power has always been given. Hence, whatsoever those men did in authority, in the name of the Lord, and did it truly and faithfully, and kept a proper and faithful record of the same, it became a law on earth and in heaven, and could not be annulled, according to the decrees of the great Jehovah.
This is a faithful saying. Who can hear it? And again, for the precedent, Matthew 16:18, 19: "And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven; and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven (128:1-10).
Pause long enough to gather the full meaning of the Prophet's words.
Invite class discussion of the same.
Note the manner in which the points of doctrine are made clear through the principles of good writing as we have come to know them.
Enjoy this ever present opportunity of meeting Joseph Smith firsthand through the means of the literary epistle. 
 —OCTOBER 1947