[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

Scended from the following nationalities: English, Danish, Irish, Scotch, Swiss, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, German, Welsh, and Swedish.
Suggestions for Discussion Let some of the teachers tell of their early-day favorite recreation and pastimes, also, those of their parents before them. ——2-i-2- Work Meeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3—Altering the Pattern to Suit the Figure Type Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, December 9, 1947 GINCE all patterns are drafted and cut to fit figures that are more or less ideally proportioned, it is frequently difficult for the home dressmaker to cut her dress from a commercial pattern and have the proper fit.
Very few women are a5 symmetrical as the patterns from which they wish to make their clothes. It is impossible to have patterns for every figure type.
They can only be made to fit an average of all figures. As few women are trained to draft their own patterns, we are faced with the problem of altering and adjusting commercial patterns to fit individual figure types.
Most patterns are sold according to bust measure, so that if a woman measures 36 inches bust, she would expect to buy a 36 pattern. However, this is not always a good tule to fol. Low since, quite frequently, the bust measurement is out of line with all her other measurements. In such cases it is well to buy the pattern according to the rest of the figure, and make adjustment for the bust. A 708 woman who is overly full in the bust will have great difficulty fitting the shoulders and sleeves of her dress if she buys a pattern large enough to fit her in the bust line, when she is, generally, full of figure. The same difficulty will arise from buying a pattern to fit overly small busts. The adjustment in a pattern for hips that are out of line in size is much easier to make since there are fewer lines to be altered.
After you have decided on the size of pattern that is best for you, find out where you need to make adjustments. 'To do this compare your own measurements with those on the pattern envelope and then actually try on the pattern. If there is more alteration necessary than can be made in the seams, you will need to cut your pattern and actually enlarge or decrease it in some sections. The pattern itself will give general rules for altering each main pattern section, but these are not specific for all needed changes. For instance, a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1947 woman who is short but full-figured will not need the extra underarm length allowed by cutting the full length of the blouse pattern and adding extra width all the way. She may want a short underarm and a long center front line, or a narrow shoulder and a wide front across the bust.
These adjustments can all be made by cutting the pattern at the place to be altered and spreading it to add extra fullness or taking a fold in it to make it smaller. All of these alterations in the pattern must be made before cutting.
They can and should be made on each and every piece of the pattern that does not fit the individual figure.
Measure yourself carefully and measure the pattern.
Then before cutting at all, change the pattern pieces that are wrong for you.