[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Poem | Title: Storm and]

Photograph  hy  Willard  Luce
DUST  STORM  OVER  MONUMENT  VALLEY
The  dogs  came  back,  but  they
were  still  bristling  with  anger.  The
Indians  had  crossed  the  ford  less
than  a  mile  above  the  two  small  cab-
ins, not  stopping  for  minor  raids,  in
their  hurry  to  join  forces  with  some
renegade  Navajos  from  the  reserva-
tion.
l^OR  a  few  weeks  the  Indians  were
fully  occupied  with  their  own
tribal  wars  and  left  the  white  set-
tlers to  work  in  peace.  Taking  ad-
vantage of  the  situation,  James  and
Ted  began  work  on  a  larger  house,  a
half  mile  east  of  the  Harriman  claim.
If  they  were  to  be  ready  for  winter,
no  time  was  to  be  lost.
As  the  weeks  went  by,  and  no  In-
dians appeared  on  the  scene,  James
decided  to  go  to  Mancos,  Colorado,
for  supplies.  Taking  a  pack  horse
and  one  to  ride,  he  took  a  round-
about route  far  to  the  southeast  to
avoid  going  through  Ute  territory.
While  many  of  the  Navajos  were
willfully  mean  and  lawless,  most  of
them  were  friendly  to  the  white  peo-
ple. If  they  were  well-treated  they
gave  little  trouble.  James  preferred
to  take  his  chances  with  them.  He
made  the  sixty-five  mile  trip  and  back
again  within  four  days,  but  he  had
been  able  to  buy  very  little  food.
There  was  no  surplus  anywhere,  and
with  winter  only  a  few  months  away,
each  man  was  jealously  hoarding  his
meager  store.
At  James'  home  waiting  to  see
him  was  the  famous  Thales  Haskell,
a  man  who  had  spent  many  years  as
missionary  to  the  Indians.  President
Erastus  Snow  had  heard  that  the
Montezuma  families  had  been  killed
by  the  Indians,  and  had  sent  the
missionary  from  the  outpost  head-
quarters at  Moenkopi  to  investigate.
"Seeing  your  smoking  chimney
was  a  thankful  sight,  Brother  Davis,"
Haskell  affirmed,  coming  out  into
the  dooryard  to  greet  James.  "I  have
brought  you  a  little  flour,  all  that  I
could  carry  horseback.    It  is  good  to
