[Vol34 | October 1947 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Cooperative Bennett]
Page  686

CO-OPERATIVE  DINNERS 
687 
she  desires.  It  may  be  a  little  extra 
attention  to  table  decorations  or  to 
service,  but  it  is  never  so  elaborate 
that  it  defeats  the  benefits  achieved 
by  the  division  of  labor. 
A  LTHOUGH  these  dinners,  as  we 
do  them,  are  informal  and  fun, 
they  are  never  careless.  All  of  us  have 
a  healthy  respect  for  the  cooking 
abilities  of  the  others  and  a  real  de- 
sire to  make  our  contribution  add 
flavor,  beauty,  and  distinction  to  the 
whole  arrangement.  Salad  bowls  and 
platters  are  usually  works  of  art.  Des- 
serts are  taste  triumphs  and, 
although  good  natured  "ribbing" 
takes  place  if  effects  are  too  spec- 
tacular or  experimental,  we  all  enjoy 
trying  new  and  engaging  ideas. 
One  of  the  best  parts  of  the  even- 
ing, is  the  hour  or  so  following  din- 
ner. Regular  and  frequent  meetings 
add  zest  to  the  original  congeniality, 
because  you  will  find  yourselves  do- 
ing things  together.  Perhaps  you 
will  go  to  a  concert  or  to  a  dance. 
Perhaps  you  are  camera  "fans"  and 
will  want  to  show  each  other  your 
work.  Maybe  you  are  musical  and 
would  rather  sing  or  play  together 
than  anything  else.  You  may  find 
you  like  to  study  together. 
We  read  plays.  Sometimes  they  are 
short,  sometimes  long,  but  they  are 
never  practiced.  The  host  assigns 
the  parts,  and  we  go  to  work  strug- 
gling with  dialects,  cues,  and  char- 
acterizations at  this  first  reading.  I 
am  not  sure  our  special  guests,  with 
some  exceptions,  enjoy  play  reading 
as  much  as  we  do,  but  they  always 
take  it  in  good  spirit.  We  do  not 
always  read;  sometimes  we  relax  laz- 
ily into  an  evening  of  talk,  which  is 
one  of  the  best  ways  to  spend  an 
evening,  because  if  it  is  a  good  group 
it  will  be  good  talk. 
If  you  decide  to  try  the  play  read- 
ing, you  will  need  at  least  one  copy 
for  every  three  readers,  or  the  "per- 
formance" will  be  badly  slowed  up. 
You  will  also  need  good  lights  and 
you  will  have  to  persuade  the  ladies 
to  put  aside  their  knitting,  needle- 
point, or  stocking  darning  during  the 
reading  time.  It  is  not  necessary, 
however,  to  find  a  play  with  the  same 
number  of  characters  as  guests. 
"Doubling  up"  can  be  done.  Roles 
can  be  passed  around  between  acts 
or  scenes,  and  alternated  with  listen- 
ing. 
Like  a  good  marriage  which 
"halves  the  troubles,  and  doubles  the 
joys,"  co-operative  dining  quarters 
the  entertaining  anxieties  and  mul- 
tiplies the  fun  by  four.  The  one  in- 
flexible rule  we  have  is  that  no  one 
worry  about  his  contribution.  If  a 
dinner  ever  happens  to  be  "under 
par,"  everyone  shares  in  the  embar- 
rassment which,  by  the  sharing, 
turns  out  to  be  no  embarrassment  at 
all.  And  if  the  dinner  is  superlative, 
four  couples  are  filled  with  pride. 
I  am  intrigued  in  this  Centennial
