Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. Fist Week In November. THE NEW TESTAMENT TIMES. (Readings: Luke 1:46-56; John 12:1-19.) From the fact that Jesus lived a mortal life in the flesh during the first years of the Christian era. the New Testament times will always have a fascination for those who believe in Him and accept Teachings. Thus far in these lessons we have studied the lives of the two women who lived in those days  Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, and Mary, the mother of our Savior. To give anything of a clear and entertaining, not to speak of a complete, account of those time and conditions requires considerable space. We -hall therefore devote this and the following lesson to the one topic, taking different aspects in each. Let us suppose, for the sake of clearness and interest, that you are living at the time of these women in the land of Palestine. What would he the manner of your birth? Into what kind of home would you make your appearance? What things would you see from then till you died? what education receive? whit religious training given? what occupations have? Month before you came into the world you would, of our, he '"expected". And a great deal would he made by your friends as well as by yourself of that expectation. Very likely your mother would have been exceedingly anxious on the question of her having children. For was not the last thing said to her by her mother before all the wedding guests, "May you he the mother of thousand-!" And was taught to believe that to be "barren" was to experience the disfavor of the would have "wrestled in prayer" over the Lord? Maybe matter as to she remove that possible disfavor. Not improbably she fasted as well as prayed. Your mother would be no more inclined to hide the signs of the approaching event than a young woman nowadays is to conceal her engagement ring. Indeed, some of her friends might have seriously consulted the stars in order to determine whether you were to be a boy or a girl. If you had been a "man-child." you would have been accounted by every one, especially by your father, as more desirable. GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 585 and troops of friends would have come into the house, even on the day of your birth, bringing presents for you and congratulations for your parents on account of the divine gift to them. But being only a girl not so much fuss would be made over you arrival. The first treatment accorded you would be to swaddle you. not in swaddling '"clothes,*' as our version of the Bible improperly puts it. As a preliminary, however, you would be washed by the mid-wife in tepid water and rubbed with pulverized salt. Then you would be sprinkled with reban, "a powder made of dried myrtle leaves." After that the swaddling bands would be applied. "The swaddle," says one who himself was swaddled, "is a piece of stout cloth a yard square, to one corner of which is attached a long narrow band. The infant, with its arms pressed close to its sides, and its feet stretched full length and laid close together, is wrapped in the swaddle, and the narrow band wound around the little body, from the shoulders to the ankles, giving the little one the exact appearance of an Egyptian mummy." And this writer goes on to say that "only a few of the good things of this mortal life were more pleasant to me when I was a boy than to carry in my arms a swaddled babe. The 'salted' and 'peppered' little creature felt so soft and so light, and was so appealing helpless, that to cuddle it was to me an unspeakable benediction." To say of you that you had not been "salted" would be the same as to say that no one knew who your father was. This is why it was such a terrible thing for the ancient prophet to say of apostate Israel, "Thou was not salted at all, nor swaddled at all." Having been thus safely born and "salted," your next task would be to grow up. You would not even think of disobeying your parents, as American children so often do. With us obedience to parents is merely a social obligation, if it is proper to call it an obligation at all. But with the Jews it was not only a social grace, but a religious duty as well. You would be carefully impressed with the fact that God commands you to obey your father an 1 mother. The displeasure of your parents you would fear as much as you would the wrath of God. Such unquestioned filial obedience as this may have put a damper on the spirit of progress among Oriental peoples, but at least it has conserved the primitive virtues among them and preserved the cohesion of the social group. You would be reared in a religious atmosphere of which Americans do not even dream. The main idea in your life would 1 be not the shop or the factory or even dress, but God and your own soul Your mother when she made bread would ask God to bless what she did. Your very speech every day would be a reminder of the religious life. Instead of saying, in answer to a 
 question, "1 am doing well at present," you would say rather, "God is giving bounteously." When you were about to go on a journey your friends would not say, "Take good care of yourself." but "Go. in the keeping and protection of God." You would salute your friends with "God grant you good morning" or "The peace of God come upon you.*' Your father would say to the day laborer, "God give you health and strength," and to those who gathered the increase of the vineyard. "The Lord be with you." Even if you wished to know the nature of anything, you would ask. "What is its religion?" Sometimes you would even speak of water as an "infidel." Thus religion would be your daily speech, not as in other countries and other times a Sunday speech. Most of your life you would spend out of doors. Not that your parents would not have a house. But the house would be used merely as a shelter or refuge from storms. The phrase that spoke of God as a "shelter" or "refuge" would be very significant to you in your Oriental home. Your real home would be on the house-top. This was made for the purpose of being lived on. It would consist of strong beams laid across from one side to the other at a distance of about two or three feet apart, with poles close together over them. These poles would be covered with branches and about twelve inches of earth, rolled hard so as to shed the rain. On this you would sleep, on this you would do much of your eating, on this your father and mother would often pray, and on this the trader would cry out his wares, the "towncrier" shout out his message, and the neighbors call to one another. You would not need to have Christ's words explained to you in which he spoke of the suddenness of his second coming, "Let not other words those in who which are he on declared the house-top that our come down," secret sins nor would those be proclaimed from the house-top. Doubtless you would take great delight in watching the process by which flour was turned into bread. You would see your mother get the flour from the bottom of the earthen barrel in which it was kept, place the flour on one side of the kneading board, with the kneading bowl filled with warm water in which salt had been dissolved. You would watch her as with a "God bless you!" she took out the leaven, a lump of dough which she had kept from the former baking and which she had preserved by burying in flour, dissolve it in the salt water, and literally "hid" it in the measure of flour. After the dough had risen it was made into small loaves, and these your mother took to the public baker's, you probably accompanying her to see what happened. The "oven," as it is called in our English Bible, is "a" huge earthen tube about three feet in diameter and about five feet long: it is sunk in the ground within a small, roughly con GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 587 structed hut. Not a dozen loaves would your mother bake, but a hundred or two. For a large baking is a matter of pride as well as a means of security. It may be that your mother has the oven all to herself for a whole day. You would readily understand the passage in Leviticus, "When I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver you your bread again by weight." For not to be able to have a large baking, or to have such a small baking that ten women could use the oven the same day, would be a positive curse. You would also get the full significance, as you looked upon the "billows of black smoke, pierced at intervals by tongues of flame issuing from the deep hole" of the chimneyless hut, of those words of Malachi, "Behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven," and those other words of Jesus about "the grass which today is in the field and tomorrow is cast into the oven." branches, For thistles the and fire straw. was fed with large quantities of tree You would know what it is to be hospitable in a way that has never dawned upon the mind of the average Westerner. All invitations would be given in your father's name, or, in case your father was dead, in the name of some other connected male. Instead of your father saying to a stranger merely, "I should like to have you dine with me," as an American would be apt to do, you would perhaps hear a conversation something like the following: Father: Ennoble me with your presence. Stranger: I would be ennobled, but I cannot accept. Father: That cannot be. Stranger: Yea, yea, it must be. Father: No, T swear against you by our friendship and by the life of God. I love to acquaint von with my bread and salt. Stranger: I swear also that I find it impossible to accept. Your bread and salt are known to all. Father: Yea, do it just for our own good. By coming to us you come to your own house. Let us repay your bounty to us. Stranger: By the mercy of God, T have not bestowed any bounty upon you worth mentioning. And the conversation would most likely end by your father seizing the stranger and literally pulling him into the house, with the words, "I will not let you go!" Thus the parable in the New Testament would not be a dark saying to you: "A certain man made a great supper, and bade many * * * And the Lord said unto the servant. Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled," 58S RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is it necessary to know something about the customs of the Israelites before we can understand the Bible? 2. What is meant by swaddling an infant? 3. What was done as a preliminary to swaddling? 4. Contrast obedience to parents then and now. Do you think the custom of the Israelites  religious atmosphere of those days. 6. Give the significance of the house-top in Xew Testament times. Describe the process of baking then. LESSON IT. Work and Business. Second Week in November. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in November. COLONIZATION FROM BABEL. (Note.  Our modern geographies and histories group the human family according to physical features, such as a cross section shape of the hair, complexion, and shape of the skull, as to whether it is relatively long or broad. But the ethnologists' classification is unsuited to our genealogical work (e. g. see I Nephi 2:23 and IT Nephi 5:21, 22 for Indian's complexion). We generally look up our lineage. For that reason we need to seek out those histories which treat of peoples from a genealogical point Of view. Of all historians those who have understood, more or less, the purposes of the God of Israel have given best place to the lineal historical account. We therefore are compelled to hold somewhat close to the standard church works.) In our last lesson we pointed to traits and institutions of the Teutonic peoples which strongly indicate that they are of the lost tribes of Israel. This places us in a position by which we can identify them with their ancestors in the house of Noah, namely,, Shem (See Genesis 11: 10-26 and Matt. 1:2). Let us bear in mind that modern revelation teaches us that antediluvian civilization, which was the 'heritage of the family of GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 589 Noah was developed upon what we now call the American continent (See Doc. and Cov. 116 and 107:53). For the ancestry of Noah see Doc. and Cov. 107:41-52; Genesis 5:l-32. It is with the descendants of Noah that our brief historical introduction is principally concerned, and for this we begin with the period from the Flood to the confusion of tongues at the Tower of Babel. This latter event took place about 2200 B. C. and about 150 years (some say 300 years) after the Flood. In Ether 1:33 we read, "Jared came forth with his brethren and their families, with some others and their families, from the great Tower, at the time the Lord confounded the language of the people, and swear in his wrath that they should be scattered upon all the face of the earth; and according to the word of the Lord the people were scattered (See Gen. 11:l-9). The central fact here is that the people were scattered from the locality of the valley of the Tigris-Euphrates river valley. And when they begin to write their own histories we find them, generally speaking, in somewhat independent city-states. Then follows a period of conquest and growth into kingdoms, and empires, and here and there a nation. The important question for this lesson is. To what part of the earth did the descendants of the three sons of Noah migrate? The reasons for the migrations and the directions of colonization are interestingly told by Josephus in his Antiquities of the Jews, chapters IV and V, Book I: "The sons of Noah were three. Shem, Japhet, and Ham, born one hundred years before the deluge. These first of all descended from the mountains into the plains, and fixed their habitation there and persuaded others, who were greatly afraid of the lower grounds on account of the flood, and so were very loth to come down from the higher places, to venture to follow their example. Now the plain in which they first dwelt was called Shinar. God also commanded them to send colonies abroad, for the thorough peopling of the earth, that they might not raise seditions among themselves, but might cultivate a great part of the earth, and enjoy its fruits after a plentiful manner: but they were so ill instructed, that they did not obey God, for which reason they fell into calamities, and were made sensible by experience of what sin they had been guilty of; for when they flourished with a numerous youth, God admonished them again to send out colonies: but they, imagining that the prosperity they enjoyed was not derived from the favor of God. but supposing that their own power was the proper not obey him. Nay cause they of the plentiful added to this condition they to disobedience were the in. divine will, the suspicion that they were ordered to send out separate 
 colonies, that, being divided asunder, they might the more easily he oppressed. "Now it was Nimrod who excited them to such an affront and contempt of God; he was the grandson of Ham, the son of Noah, a bold man. and of great strength of hand. He persuaded them not to ascribe it to God, as if it were through his means that they were happy, but to believe that it was their own courage that procured that happiness. He also gradually changed the government into tyranny, seeing no other method turning men from the fear of God, but to bring them into a constant dependence on his own power. He also said, "He would be revenged on God. if he should have a mind to drown the world again; for that he would build a tower too high for the waters to be able to reach, and that he would avenge himself on God for destroying their forefathers. "Now the multitude were very ready to follow the determination of Nimrod, and to esteem it a piece of cowardice to submit to God; and they built a tower, neither sparing any pains, nor being at any degree negligent about the work: and by reason of the multitude of hands employed in it, it grew very high sooner than any one could expect, but the thickness of it was so great, and it was so strongly built, that thereby its great height seemed, upon view, to be less than it really was. Tt was built of burnt brick, cemented together with mortar, made of bitumen, that it might not be liable to admit water. When God saw them acting so madly. he did not resolve to destroy them utterly, since they were not grown wiser by the destruction of the former sinners, but he caused a tumult among them by producing in them divers languages, and causing that through the multitude of those languages, they should not be able to understand one another. The place wherein they built the tower is now called babYlon, because of the coNfusion of that language which they readily understood in fore, for the Hebrew means by the word Babel, confusion. The Sibyl* also makes mention of the tower, and of the confusion of the language, when she says thus: 'When all men were of one language, some of them built an high tower, as if they would thereby ascend to heaven, but the gods sent storms of wind, and overthrew the tower, and gave every one his peculiar language; anil for this reason it was that the city was called Babylon.' Rut as to the plain of Shinar. in the country of Babylonia. Icterus mentions it when he says. 'Such of the priests as were saved took thc sacred vessels of Jupiter Enyalius, and came to Shinar or Babylonia.' "After this they were dispersed abroad on account of the difference of their language, and went out by colonies every- *Tlic Sibylline hooks were a sort of bible of the Romans. GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 591 v/here; and each colony took possession of that land unto which God led them, so that the whole continent was filled with them, both the inland and the maritime countries. There were some also who passed over the sea in ships, and inhabited the islands; and some of those nations still retain the denominations which were given them by their first founders, but some have lost them, and some have only admitted certain changes in them, that they might be more intelligible to the inhabitants; and they were the Greeks who became the authors of such mutations; for when, in after ages they grew potent, they claimed to themselves the story of antiquity, giving names to the nations that sounded well in Greek, that they might be better understood among themselves, and setting agreeable forms of government over them, as if they were a people derived from themselves." For the colonization of America, we read in Ether 1:40-43: "And it came to pass that the Lord did hear the brother of Jared, and had compassion upon him, and said unto him, Go to and gather together thy flocks, both male and female of every kind; and also the seed of the earth of every kind, and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and also thy friends, and their families, and the friends of Jared and their families. And when thou hast done this, thou shalt go at the head of them down into the valley, which is northward. And there will I meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land which is choice above all the lands of the earth. And there will I bless thee and thy seed and raise up unto me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and they who shall go with thee, a great nation. And there shall be none greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy seed, upon all the face' of the earth. And thus I will do unto thee because this long time ye have cried unto me." The Lord brought this colony upon the western coast of North America. For the colonization of Europe. Asia, and Africa, from Babel, in a general, loose way, for mental classification, we may say Japheth's descendants colonize Europe; Shem's, Asia; and Ham's. Africa. But there are noteworthy exceptions. The basis for this classification in colonization is the Bible and Josephus (See Gen. 10, and Josephus Antiquities of the Jews, Book I, Chapter VI. In a general way Europe was colonized from the northern shores of the Mediterranean sea by the descendants of Japheth. and the expansion was towards the north and northwest. Their chief exceptions referred to above are that Asia Minor (excepting Lydia and Armenia) Media and the land of the Scythians were peopled by Japhetic lineage. Shem's descendants located in the Tigris-Euphrates valleys, Syria, Lydia, Armenia, Persia, and Bactria. The children of Ham in the Nile river valley (see Book of Abraham 1:21-23) and northern Africa, the chief exception to 
 these being that they were also located on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean in Phoenicia, Palestine, and at Babel. We must not entertain the thought that there were great walls separating these peoples, for there was constant intermingling as we see in Rebekah's and the daughters of complaint Heth (Gen.later27:46 on, toand Isaac1:15). concerning Jacobis Our aim to acquire a general classified view, though indefinitely defined. In the discussion of this lesson there should be a map of the world before the members of the organization. QUESTIONS. Where was the antediluvian civilization, which was the social inheritance of the 'family of Noah, developed? During what period of time? (See Doc. and Cov. Lectures on Faith II). In a general way, who colonized the American and the Old World continents from Babel? About when did this period of colonization begin? Who first moved into the plains? Why were the people scattered abroad? (Cite authorities in answering the above questions.) LITERATURE Third Week in September. STORTES FROM SCRIPTURE. "Back to the Bible" is one of the stirring calls in these trying days. Why? Because the Bible is the Book of books. Within its pages are the found tured with the of choicest truths of life Every stories. 'plainly told should home and vividly know pic the Rible; every father should make it a companion, a binding link between him and his children, and every mother should make its stories a means of inculcating the gospel in the hearts of her liltle ones. It is not enough to trust this work to the Sabbath school or other organizations. We should have a scripture story hour frequently in every home. This does not mean that every story in the good book should be given indiscriminately to children. Some stories from scripture cannot beunded stood by the immature child. But there are many stories which are within his grasp. Such tales should be read for his delight and his development. The story of Joseph has been referred to in these lessons before as one of the master stories in all literature. It may be read again and again with never failing charm. Its pictures of the Patriarch Jacob, with his family in their nomadic life, and its following of the fortunes of the pure-minded boy Joseph in his GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 593 rise from the position of servant to that of prime minister of the great nation of Egypt, wherein he fulfills the dreams of his boyhood, all make a story so dramatic in its appeal as to hold both young and old. The story of Moses is likewise full of interest. Think of the stirring situation that makes the beginning of this tale: The babes of the Israelites are to be slain. To save her boy, the mother of Moses is inspired to set him afloat in an ark of rushes on the Nile where the princess is wont to bathe. This queenlv woman comes, and sees the child. Her heart is touched. She takes the dimpled babe for her own; the little maid in waiting is sent to find a Hebrew nurse, and the child's own mother is brought to rear her own son in the palace of the Pharaoh. Moses is brought up as an Egyptian prince, schooled in all the learning of that people; but his heart is trained by his mother. She holds him in the path of righteousness against all the allurements and the teachings of the worldly-minded Egypt. He rises to be the great leader of his oppressed people, the mighty lawgiver to chosen Israel, delivering them from bondage and restoring them to the Land of Promise. This is a story which should be heard often in our homes. It ought to be a constant source of sweet comfort and inspiration to our Latter-day Saint mothers. Their teachings born of love are often far more powerful to hold the hearts of their children true to the faith than they may imagine. The story of Abraham and Isaac carries also a deep and abiding lesson to those whose souls are ready to receive it a lesson of trust in God and the blessings that come from the spirit of sacrifice. In the story of the expulsion of our first parents from the Garden of Eden is also a lesson of profound significance. How many men and women every day are being driven from their Garden of Eden because of their disobedience to the commandments of the Lord? As has been pointed out before, the Bible story is not only charming in its interest as a literary tale, but it is always true to life and true to truth. Between its lines may ever be found some lesson of vital importance to mankind. The child may not catch this message at first hearing, nor at second. It is not necessary that he does. Let him enjoy the story as a story. Read it in its sweet simple language from the Bible or tell it plainly. The clay will come when its deeper meanings will come to give new joy to his heart. The wooing of Rebecca, the story of Ruth, the birth of Samuel and his boyhood in the temple, are tales that reflect the gentler side of Hebrew life. They breathe an atmosphere of the patriarchal times and customs, of innocence and purity in court- 
 ship and marriage, and the rearing of children. Stories of this kind are too little heard in our homes in these days. We need more of this kind of tales. Another type of story, that challenges the interest of our boys especially, is that which breathes the martial spirit of Israel. The stories of Joshua, of Gideon, and of Samson, of David and Saul, all have a thrilling interest for the martial-minded boy, even as has that other martial scriptural story, the two thousand young Lamanites who followed Ilelaman as related in the Book of Mormon. Such war stories are wholesome. They bring before him heroes whose lives are worth emulating and when they make ishment mistakes, these heroes feel God's swift reproof and pun. Another class of Bible stories that leaves the right feeling in the hearts of boys and girls is that typified by the story of Daniel the boy who learned to live in Babylon and yet partake not of her sins. 1 f any tale is needed among our people today it is such as this. The story of Daniel is in a measure the Word of Wisdom verified. "Daniel," the story tells us, "purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. "Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the prince of the eunuchs. "And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel. I fear my Lord the King, who hath appointed your meat and drink. . . Prove thy servants. T beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink. "Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the countenances of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat; and as thou seest, deal with thy servants. And he assented and proved them ten days. "And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. "Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drink; and gave them pulse. "As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams" (Daniel 1:8-17). In these days when physical vigor and clearness of mind and strength of spirit are all so vital, the story of Daniel, and the Word of Wisdom which his ways of life exemplified should come to us with added force. The New Testament stories also are ever new. From the sweet story of the angels and the shepherds to the tragic tales of GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 595 Calvary, there is a never failing interest for all earnest, pure minded people, old and young. Turn to any part of the New Testament and you will find some story breathing the gentle spirit of the Master. Every one carries a divine lesson in the clearest, simplest language. The adoration of the magi, the boy Jesus in the temple, the miracle at Cana, the stilling of the tempest, the raising of Lazarus, the woman at the well, the anguish in Gethsemane, the crucifixion and the resurrection, with the other stories that are there woven together make the greatest story ever told, and each and every one is like a prayer and a benediction. The parables of Christ, too  those of the talents, the sewer, the prodigal son, and others are also filled with truth and wisdom. In addition to all these stories from the Old and the New Testaments, the Latter-day Saints have a wealth of scriptural stories in the Book of Mormon. This gift to the people in he last dispensation is filled with wholesome and intensely interesting tales which are holding the attention of readers everywhere. The Book of Mormon quietly through its stories is preaching the gospel to all nations and peoples. The story of the wanderings of Lehi and his sons, the struggles between the Nephites and the Lamanites in this land, and the tragic close of it all at Cumorah make many tales of dramatic interest. These may yet be the basis for expression through music, art, and literature. A scripture story hour in every home frequently or at least every Sabbath day might do much to stir in the hearts of both parents and children a clearer understanding and a deeper appreciation of these stories, and it would certainly be a means of creating a greater love for the sacred books God has given to us. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Give a reason why the stories of the Bible are ever new. 2. Be ready to tell one of these stories from scripture and point out the lesson of life that it carries. 3. What great consolation for mothers may come from the story of Moses? 4. What pictures of Hebrew life are brought out in the story of Ruth? 5. Why are the Bible heroes generally good for boys to emulate? 6. What lesson of especial force is emphasized in the story of Daniel? 7. Tell some story from the New Testament that has especially comforted or impressed you. 8. What Book of Mormon story do you best remember? r'><> RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in October. THE FORMATION OF CHILDREN'S CHARACTER. We have studied much in our previous lessons this year concerning- .different phases of "child welfare." But most of our attention has been is as it should be, centered since the upon child the is child's first of physical needs animal, all a human This and a firm foundation of physical strength should be the basis of every life. Weakness or physical inefficiency is the cause of many a life's failures. The Keynote of Existence. Still while it is difficult to overestimate the importance of a well-fed body, we must not lose sight of the fact that the parent's greatest responsibility to his Maker and his child is his share in the shaping and building of a strong, noble character. Strength of body or of mind does not assure one of becoming a useful citizen. The greatest criminals living are possessed of strong bodies and keen, well-trained minds. The greatest duty of the Latter-day Saint parent is to develop and train the character and sold of his child. Heredity vs. Environment. Tt is not profitable to speculate upon which has the greatest influence on character, heredity or environment. Undoubtedly each is a very strong factor and must be given due consideration by those who are interested in child welfare. Tt is to be hoped that each son or daughter of Israel has been "born of goodly parents," for no bitter spring can give forth sweet water nor may we hope to "gather figs from thistles." The most prayerful concern must be exercised that each one shall choose wisely the mate who is to share in the making of another family. The exact traits that the great law of heredity passes on to our offspring may be beyond our control; but we are to a large extent the masters of the environment with which we surround them. Not so much as to material wealth but certainly as to the moral atmosphere in which they are reared to maturity. We may decide whether we shall teach them to be honest or dishonest; we may.- by controlling our own tempers and tendencies to weakness, help them to control the tongue, the passion^, and to place the personal will under the control of the divine Will; or by carelessness, teach GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 597 them the reverse. We may encourage industry and love of useful labor, or by lack of effort on our part, rear them to idleness. And all necessary traits of human character may be taught regardless of the location of our homes or the condition of our purse. Indeed it is nearly always more difficult to bring out the best of human character if the family has an abundance of money. Adversity and struggle seem to be the conditions which make for the finest and strongest characters. However, if the parent is determined by the help of God to bring to maturity the best in his child's nature, he may do so no matter what his financial condition may be. The Parent or Guardian's Key. The first requisite one must have in influencing the character of the child is love  a love deep and unfeigned  and an understanding of the child's nature. This may be difficult to achieve, but it must be accomplished, or our efforts will be vain. Don't be afraid of loving your child or your grandchild (or your neighbor's child, if you are attempting to help him), and don't hesitate to let him know that you love him. Love is to the child what the sun is to the flower  it brings out all the beauty, the perfume, the perfection that might otherwise be stifled or remain hidden forever. No child was ever loved too much, but oh the hundreds that have starved for the most essential thing in life! But do not confuse love with indulgence  they are not synonymous in any sense. Unwise indulgence may undo in one hour all that loving restraint and guidance has built up in years. Another requisite the parent must possess, if he is to help bring out the best in his child, is a firm belief in the child's goodness and ability. No child can overcome wrong tendencies if he is surrounded by those who are always looking for and magnifying his faults. If you don't believe in your child, play you do, make him think you do  until the child's efforts have a chance to bear fruit and you will be surprised at the result. This may take constant and prayerful effort but there is no other way for you to succeed. Yet even here avoid gross flattery and cheap sentimentality. Let vigorous yet loving truth garnish your words and acts. Correct the evil tendency, but don't forget to encourage the worthy effort. The Importance of Comradeship. Take the average child of today. From whom has he learned the most of life's lessons? You may teach him abstractly to love truth, but if you allow him to associate with a child who has learned that by stealing or cheating he may obtain candy or forbidden pleasures, how long will it take your child to practice the same methods? 
 Froebel, the founder of the great Kindergarten system, says. "Come, let us live with our children." And that is the only way to teach them. The parent who remains on a pedestal and is too busy to come down to the child's level and play with him occasionally, and make his child feel that father and mother are his best friends and pals, may rest assured that his teachings, no matter how good, are going to fall on infertile soil. All of us are most liable to learn from and emulate those whom we love best and with whom we most associate. The Essentials of Character. The essential traits of a strong character may be enumerated as: First, love of truth; second, obedience; third, integrity. These three traits (with many minor ones that are outgrowths of them), the parent or teacher should constantly strive to build into the fiber of the child. Every parent will agree with this, but few know instinctively how to practice these virtues, and it is not within the scope of this lesson to go into details. The child's father and mother should understand that they must first possess the traits they are striving to implant, or the lesion is not successful. They must realize that they have undertaken a job whose magnitude and difficulty makes the building of the Panama Canal sink into insignificance. Yet love and the results obtained when the family are grown to a useful maturity make it the most desirable work that man could undertake to do. The parent must be united in the methods used in teaching these valuable lessons, and must understand that it will require much forethought and actual study of the subject as well as prayer concerning it to be in any measure successful. There are many good books on the subject of child culture: a list of a few of the best will be given at the end of this lesson. Our Country's Need. General Pershing, when he first took command of the American troops, is said to have remarked that the American lad of today would have to learn two things: to hold a gun. and to obey. The success or failure of the stupendous undertaking of our nation today will depend as always upon the character of the men and women of our country. Have they learned first to love the truth? If so, they are encore to do all in their power even to giving the last drop of their blood to prevent the continuation on earth of a great social human error. Have they learned in their youth that obedience to law, to order, to those who hold righteous authority. is the means of securing the greatest peace and happiness? If so, then it will be no task to be one of a great unit fighting for human liberty. GUIDE DEPARTMENT. 599 Have they learned the full meaning of integrity to their religion, to a cause, to their nation, to their family or friends?  then in this great national crisis will our boys be found loyal and true to the first and last call of duty. QUESTIONS. 1. What is meant by a man's character? 2. What is your opinion of a woman who thinks her mother's duty clone if her child is clean and well fed? 3. What is the greatest duty a parent owes to his child? 4. In your opinion, which traits of character are strongest, those the child inherits, or those he has acquired through his environment? 5. In he tendencies what has way may a child's home influence counteract the inherited? 6. What is your opinion regarding wealth as a factor in the formation of character? 7. Tell why love, appreciation, and comradeship, are the necessary foundation stones each parent must use in character building. 8. What are the essential traits of a perfect character and why are they so? 9. How may parent or guardian train a child to the best possibilities of his nature? How may this great lesson be learned? BIBLE LESSON FOR NOVEMBER. "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom. Seek learning by study, and also by faith." Bible, 1st. Luke, chap. 1; 2nd, Luke, chap. 2; 3rd, John, chap. 1; 4th, John, chap. 2; 5th, John, chap. 3; 6th, John, chap. 4; 7th, John, chap. John, chap. 19; 8; 8th, 11th.John, John,"chap. chap. 11; 20;9th, 12th,John, chap. chap. Matthew, 12; 10th, 25; 13th, Acts, chap. 1; 14th, Acts, chap. 2; 15th, Acts, chap. 3; 16th, Acts, chap. 4; 17th, Acts, chap. 5; 18th, Acts, chap. 6; 19th, Acts, chap. 7; 20th, Acts, chap. 9; 21st, Acts, chap. 10; 22nd, Acts, chap. 16; 23rd, I John, chap. 1; 24th, I John, chap. 2; 25th, I John, chap. 3; 26th, I John, chap. 4; 27th, I John, chap. 5; 28th, II John, chap. 1; 30th, III John, chap. 1. USE THE PRESSURE COOKER It is cheaper than keeping poultry, hogs, sheep or other animals, which require feeding on expensive grain and other food during the cold weather. As fast as your fruit jars are empty, put up your meat. PROF. O. G. BENSON, says: "I do not like the wash boiler method. I wouldn't like it even if it were safe, because the long process, aside from rendering the meat tasteless, requires such a lot of fuel." Decayed fruits and vegetables make rich soil, but not rich farmers. The use of the Pressure Cooker avoids waste. Recommended by the UATH STATE COUNCIL OF DEFENCE and the RELIEF SOCIETY. ONLY A FEW LEFT MAIL ORDER AT ONCE TO Consolidated Wagon & Machine Company Utah - Idaho - Wyoming - Nevada COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS and Double Disc Records The mechanism, style, finish and every detail of the COLUMBIA products are as near perfection as possible. Let us send you catalogue of Machines and Records. We can arrange terms. FURNITURE  CARPETS RUGS RANGES GOCARTS, Etc FURNITURE of QUALITY Co-op. Furniture Company s.h Lake cay, uuh W. N. WILLIAMS. Supt. TWO BOOKS When WE make your Portaits, Family Record of Temple Work jor the Dead. A simplified form, with YOU get the correct style, excomplete instructions for properly excellence and satisfaction cording this work. L. D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church. These books are The Thomas sold at $1.25 each.