[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 361 | Fiction | The Anniversary | Nita Ellis]
A2iL Bs Nita Ellis Penarth, Glamorgan, South Wales "That green thing's nice. It suits you." »Celia's blue eyes grew mutinous, and her mother interposed quickly. '"'Give a call to Bob, dear. He'll be late for school." Celia's uncertain temper was never far below the surface, she thought. But she was a redhead, like her father, with his loving but fiery disposition. Only persistent and prayerful effort would enable her to control it. In time, she would succeed, just as David had. She was glad that he had gone off early this morning. He disliked to hear the children bickering, and it was important that he should not be worried today. If this deal didn't go through. She tried to shake off the sudden despondency, remembering all the unexpected expenses; the need for a new motor scythe, and the re- 


 pair bill for the station wagon, the strain on David's face, after an evening spent in worried calculations. There were bills that must be settled by the end of the month, and it was the 20th, already. The 20th! The hand slicing bread tensed and stopped. Unseeingly, she stared through the window at the lovely, sunlit garden. It was their wedding anniversary. And they had both forgotten all about it! ""'Mum—remember that pattern I bought last week? It's so simple that if you didn't mind slipping out to buy that blue silk I showed you in Cooper's window, you could make a frock by tomorrow." Celia spoke pleadingly, one slim hand on the doorknob. 'You know how quick you are!"' "And you know how busy she is," countered young Bob, munching steadily through his bowl of cereal. "You ought to make your own dress, Cil."' JEFF laughed. "You might as well ask her to cook her own meals." "Boys — boys!" Mrs. Roberts prayed for the inward peace so necessary to manage this temperamental family of hers. 'Be fair to your sister. She works hard in the garden, and does her share when it comes to redecorating." "But those are men's jobs." Jeff sounded quite concerned. "How will she manage, when she marries?" This time Celia could not restrain her annoyance. 'No wonder Lucy had a quarrel with you. She's better off, if you ask me." "I didn't ask you!" Jeff's reply was ominously quiet. 362 They were at it again. Mrs. Roberts ran a hand over her forehead. "Celia, you'll miss your train. If I get that material and make the frock, you'll have to pay for it."' Celia had been overspending since she had become friendly with Brian. If only she could come to realize that Philip, her old boy friend, was the one for her. He had such a steadying influence, and Celia needed someone like that. "Bless you, Mummy dear—and thanks."" Temper was forgotten as quickly as it had arisen. "I'll pay you back—with interest." She waved a grateful hand. "Bye now!" Then she was gone—a whirl of navy skirt, lemon sweater, and bronze fall of bobbing hair, with a crimson and orange daubed canvas beneath one arm. "You know what?" asked Bob, eating egg and bacon with enthusiasm, "Cil will end up as one of those artists who live in a garret, with a candle and no food." "Not on your life!" Jeff stood up, a tall, dark boy, with an attractive smile. "'She's got enough sense to stay at home and let Mum look after her." He looked tired. He had been brooding about that break with Lucy. A pity! She was a sweet girl. Mi rs. Roberts inspected her firstborn with the wistful glance of a mother, who, powerless to help, has to watch her dear ones suffering the hurts of adolescence. "How about asking Pete over for the week end?" she suggested. "M-mm. I'll ring him." She brushed his jacket, wishing he wasn't so uncommunicative. "Thanks, Mum." He gave her his slow, sweet smile as he left for work. Now, only Bob remained to be seen off. He had always been the easiest of the three. "Mitzi should have her pups any time, now," he remarked, stuffing books into his satchel. "IT wonder how many she'll have?" his mother replied absently, holding out his blazer. "Bob—your arms are too long for the sleeves."' "I'll need a new one, if they make me a prefect. The list'll be read out today." She hugged him. "If they do, I'll bake a cake, a special 'prefect' one. Daddy and I can share it. We've been married twenty years today." "Twenty years!" Bob's exclamation held a touch of awe. "Wow!'' Then he, too, was gone, and she was left with a pile of washing-up. SHE worked deftly, restoring gleaming order to her big, whitepainted kitchen, with its shining brasses, fragrant potted plants and colorful rugs—the heart of the house, this room, a place for creation and living. Here the family ate together, talked together, prayed together. Here, in the sunny window alcove, she had spent patient hours trying to teach Celia to sew. The girl disliked it as much as she disliked cooking. But she showed so much talent in other skills that her mother had given up the instruction. She had worried about it, but David had laughed at her. "You do too much for the children. Leave them to find their own way THE ANNIVERSARY —make their mistakes. They'll learn quicker that way." Dear Dave! He would be so self-reproachful at the thought of forgetting their anniversary. But with so many things going wrong, and working as hard as two men on the small, mixed farm, it was little wonder that even such a special date should have eluded him. If he managed to secure that large order from the city firm, it would boost his morale, quite apart from straightening out their financial tangles. Maybe they would be able to manage new covers for the living room. The old ones had been washed and mended so often that they depressed her. She whisked around the bedrooms, thinking she must hurry now—shopping this morning— the frock this afternoon. A batch of cooking and more frock in the evening. So much for a wedding anniversary! It was just as she finished cutting out the dress that the phone rang. It was_ her husband. "'Dave!"' she said conscious of the thrill of pleasure, which, even after all these years, always ran through her when she heard his voice. '"'You've got that order—I just know you have!" "Right the first time, pet.'' He sounded himself again, free from the anxiety that had been fretting him. "And that's not all. Have you remembered what I've remembered?" SHE laughed softly, wishing she could see his face. "Of course. I'm going to make a cake." "Not at the moment, my lovely Jean. We're going to spend 


 some money on ourselves—just you and me." His tone was wheedling, reminding her of Celia, but with David's, there was an underlying note of authority. "Listen carefully, Jean. Not coming home tonight." "Dave!"" She was aghast. He chuckled. "That's just the way I wanted you to say it. Proves-you still love me!" '"'Dave—you're not serious." "O. K. You can enlarge on that, later, surrounded by luxury. I've a surprise for you. You're coming to town by the 5:30 train. I'll meet you at the station. I've booked a room for two nights at a hotel." "How wonderful. But. "I haven't finished. I've taken seats for the ballet this evening and a play for tomorrow." With obvious enjoyment, he ended with "How about that, eh?' "I can't believe it, Dave."' She was at a loss for words. He had fixed everything. However was she going to explain that she was overwhelmed with work at home? "It'll do the children good to look after things for a week end. You wait on them far too much." She was thinking rapidly. Husband or children. Who should come first? Celia's frock—cooking —prefect cake—Pete staying for the week end—and Mitzi's pups. Celia couldn't cook and Celia couldn't sew. None of them knew a thing about midwifery. "Darling!" David's voice came with a note of acute disappointment. '"You're not trying to think up an excuse, are you? Not on our anniversary." There were sudden tears in Jean's eyes. "'No," she said. "I'm just overcome. Nothing in the I'm 39 364 _do them yourself." world will stop me from coming." OF course Dave came first. She had loved him for a long time before she knew the children. She looked at the clock. Just two hours left for everything. Clothes? She had the new dress bought a few weeks before for a niece's wedding, and her suit was just back from the cleaners. The cream hat would match nicely, with a ribbon band, instead of the veiling. She had all she needed. What a relief! She rang up to order a taxi and food from three local shops. Pete's appetite was as big as Jeff's. Celia would just have to > manage the cooking. Bob came home five minutes before the taxi, and she used the time to explain what had happened, as she packed her overnight case. He stared at her. "But, Mum! I've brought all my muddy football things home. There's a big match tomorrow, and they must be clean.": "Ask Celia to wash them—or How badly had she reared her children that they couldn't wash their own clothes. She felt an acute pang of guilt. Celia arrived, breathless and windswept, as Jean was stepping into the taxi. '"Mum—wherever are you going?" "To town, with Daddy, for two nights. I know it's unexpected, and I'm sorry, but you'll just have to manage. I've left instructions about the cooking—and the frock is cut out. All you've got to do is to follow the pattern directions carefully." "Mum!" Celia sounded desper- te. "You know that I couldn't possibly make the frock—or cook for a whole week end. You can't go!" "I can, you know—and I am," her mother told her firmly. "You're not babies, Celia. Which reminds me—if Mitzi seems in trouble, call the vet. Get Lindy Curtis to help you with the frock. She always makes her own." "'She's in Spain, with her grandmother." "For goodness sake!" She tried to think of some other advice. Another, minute and she would miss that train. '"'Eat out of cans, and ask Brian to take you somewhere else, where a new frock won't matter. Now I'm off! Address and phone number, on the _hall table—to be used only in case of illness."' The taxi slid forward. What a fuss. How wrong she had been in cosseting the family—in making them feel so dependent on her. Dave was right. They must learn by their own efforts—even if they did make a mess, at first. It had taken a twentieth wedding anniversary to convince her. She tried to put them out of her mind. Only Dave must matter, for this week end. But she couldn't help feeling mean—deserting them without notice. Yet how much meaner it would have been, to disappoint her husband. DvRING an interval at the ballet that evening, she glanced at Dave with her heart full of tenderness. How dear he was to her, his fair head bent over his program, his lean, muscled strength at ease for once. She must never allow herself to forget that she was a wife as well as a mother. THE ANNIVERSARY Never once did she mention the children; but her thoughts refused to be controlled. Was it wrong to have left little Mitzi to the doubtful care of teenagers? Would Celia burn the meat? Would she, perhaps, decide to ask a friend to lend her a frock? "You know," Dave remarked, as they were dressing for the theater, "you're still thinking about the children. Why not ring them up, and put your mind at rest?" "No!"' She hesitated. "No— they have to learn to stand on their own feet."' She would not admit how badly she longed to contact them. This must surely be the hardest thing for a mother to do—to let her children grow away from her, for' their own sakes. She had been selfish in not realizing it before. The time spent with David was wonderful. Before it drew to a close, he put an arm around her, drawing her close. "Thank you," he said, quietly, "for being—yjust my Jean." They exchanged smiles with perfect understanding. As they drove home from the station, between the peaceful, evening-shadowed fields, Jean, pleasantly rested, wondered how long such a blissful state of mind would last. She envisaged an untidy house, full of boisterous youth and spoiled food. Bob was the first to see his parents leaving the taxi at the gate and came bounding out. "Mum—AMitzi's had three pups. We helped her!" "You did?" She took a deep breath and went inside. Everything was immaculate, the table laid daintily for supper with a nicely cooked joint of 


 lamb, decorated with parsley, an attractively arranged salad, a golden crusted fruit pie, and a jug of thick cream. "Bob," she asked, Celia?" "Gone to meet Phil. She stayed at his house last night, and he's bringing his parents over to supper. They're going to ask you if they can be engaged." ''where's WEAN sat down suddenly. 'Dave, did you hear that?" He had just brought in the suitcases, and he gave his deep chuckle. "You'll be telling us next that Jeff has made it up with Lucy." 'He has."' Bob grinned all over his rosy, freckled face. "Lucy has been looking after us. How do you think we would have got by, if I hadn't sent for her?" ""You—what?" his mother asked, faintly. "She was the only person I could think of who could cook. When Celia rang Brian to say she couldn't go to the dance because she hadn't a frock, he was annoyed. Cil got mad, and in the middle of it all, Jeff and Pete came in, and said that Phil had run into a car. Celia went white, dropped the phone and ran out. Next thing we knew, she rang to say she was keeping Phil's mother company, until they sent Phil home from the hospital, and that she and Phil had made it up, and wanted to be engaged."' "What happened _ to then?" "Hurt his arm, I think—can't be anything much, if they're bringing him in to supper. Anyway, I was on my own, after Pete and Jeff went out, and I got awPhil, 366 ful hungry. I made a mess of my football shorts—you never said anything about using hot water. So I rang Lucy. She came round right away, washed my things, and cooked us a super meal." "T like that girl so much," murmured Jean, with warm appreciation. "What then, Bob?" "Well, when Jeff came back and saw her, he gave a big whoop, and picked her right up in his arms." Bob looked confidentially into his mother's face. "You know what? I think they're all nuts!" Jean stole a glance at Dave. His eyes were fairly dancing. But all he said was, "See what I mean?" Bob was still chatting. He caught her arm. ''Lucy's made a chocolate cake. Cil helped. It's to celebrate my being made a prefect; and Cil and Phil getting engaged, if you'll let them; and you and Daddy having an anniversary; and—and Mitzi having pups," he ended triumphantly. Jean threw an arm around him, and went on, "and Jeff and Lucy making up their quarrel, and Daddy getting a great big order and buying new covers for the chairs. This is going to be a wonderful party!" "'New covers," repeated Bob, excitedly. ''Well, we must be very rich!" Through the window Jean watched a laughing group of lovely young people coming to the house. Her look embraced them all with a smile of pure content. Holding her husband's arm, she answered the question in the boy's clear eyes. "Yes, Bob," she said, joyously. ""Oh, yes, Bob, we are!" Mabel Harmer @ Before they had finished breakfast the next morning Uncle Frederick said, '"Now that I have this nice, big car' He waited for the laughter to subside, and then went on. "Anyway, it will hold the five of us, or so I think. We can try it out, and then you must all go with me on some trips around the countryside. We should visit Garmish and Munich and "Just a minute!" cried Maria. "You forget that I am a working girl, We don't just run off with visiting uncles whenever we take a notion. That is, we don't go and keep our jobs." *""And I must become a working girl as fast as I can," said Elsa. "As you know, I just barely had enough money to bring me back here." "Come now. You can go for a Chapter 8 (Conclusion), week, anyway," her uncle insisted. "You will not starve, nor do without any real necessities in that time. And the trip will cost you nothing. You, Maria, can get a week's vacation, surely." "Yes, perhaps I can. And it would be wonderful to have such a pleasant trip." "Good. Just as soon as you can get away we will start off on a holiday. Perhaps we will go over into Austria. As far as Innsbruck, anyway. Why, we can do that in a single day. Now, it is all arranged." He looked at them all happily. "It is all arranged as far as you and I are concerned," laughed Maria. 'Herr Klopfer, my employer, may take quite a different view. Anyway, we shall see. I'll ask this very day."

"If we do go," said Elsa, '"'it 


 should be right away, so that I can get to work as soon as possible. But, as you say, a week probably won't make too much difference." She wanted to go out that very day and start looking for work, but her mother wouldn't hear of it. 'You are entitled to one day at home," she said, "after so long an absence. If not, I am entitled to have you here one day, at any rate." Elsa agreed, and when Maria returned from work that evening, she said, "Herr Klopfer will let me go if I can get someone to work in my place. This is the busy season in the gift shop, of course, with all of the tourists coming through now. Vacation time for us is in the late fall and winter when everyone else stays at home." "That problem will be an easy one to solve," said Elsa. "I can take your place. I've had all the traveling and vacation that is coming to me. Besides, I know the shop and can do much better than anyone else. Tell Herr Klopfer that I'll report to work Monday morning." WAHEN Maria started to protest, her mother said firmly, "I think Elsa is right. Perhaps if she goes back to work, Herr Klopfer will decide he can use the two of you. Besides," she added with a twinkle in her eyes, "think how much more comfortable I shall be traveling with only two of us in that small back seat." It was finally agreed that the others would leave on the following Monday, and that Elsa would stay at home and take over the work in the gift shop. 368 By the time Sunday came she had been home for two days and had seen nothing of Karl. She began to suspect that his devotion was more in her mother's mind than in his heart. She strongly suspected, also, that her mother's reason for suggesting that she re-' main at home had more of a motive than merely wanting the additional room in the rear seat of the Volkswagon. They drove to church Sunday morning a few minutes early, so that Maria would be there in plenty of time to play the preliminary organ music. Karl met them in the foyer. His greeting was aS warm as anyone could wish, although he seemed just as much pleased to meet the aunt and uncle as he was to see her again. He was now in the branch presidency, he explained, and would be calling upon her right away to give her a choice of any two or three jobs that she might like. Before Elsa could answer, her mother said, "You must come home with us to dinner today. We want you to get acquainted with our folks from America." Elsa blushed faintly. Hadn't he just made it plain that he would be calling only in the interest of Church service? Why did her mother have to throw her at his head at every opportunity? As they walked into the chapel and took their seats, her mother whispered, "You are very lucky that he has not found another girl. There are plenty who have been after him."' "It is possible that he doesn't want a steady girl friend, you know," Elsa replied. "Not every young man does." "Oh, no,"' her mother protested. "That is not at all likely. He is doing very well in his work. He has even bought a car from a young man who was returning to America." Maria started to play the organ and Elsa said no more. What was the use, anyway? She couldn't convince her mother. She would have to show Karl herself that she hadn't come back mainly to try and capture him. Arer church her mother said to Karl, "Perhaps you will bring Elsa in your car. The rest of us can squeeze in with Frederick." "With pleasure," he replied. "I shall be delayed here for a few minutes on some affairs for the branch. You will not mind the wait?" he asked Elsa. She started to say that, as long as they had managed to squeeze in to come to church, she thought they could probably get back the same way. But some of her friends claimed her attention to welcome her back home, and by the time she was free again the family had driven away. There was nothing to do now but wait, unless she started out to walk, and that would be much too obvious. When Karl was finally through, he hurried over and said, "I am so sorry to keep you waiting. There is always some little matter that needs attention. The branch is growing fast—as I suppose you noticed." "I did indeed. So fast that I am beginning to wonder if [ needed to come back, after all." "Was that the only reason you came?" he asked, giving her a quizzical look.