The IRCGIief Society Magazine, Volume 52 «Number 5 - see VE A Dorothy J. Roberts I am weary of woods without you there, Of rivers winding in their greenery. Flowers pall and all the lavish wiles Of the piquant, ever-changing sea Are drained of their enchantment When they stand in solitude Without your eyes to look in awe, with mine, Without your words' enticing interlude. Without you I have no more need To take the fern-lined trail Nor follow sunset to the sea: Without you, want and longing fail. Without you montaged on a scene, My eyes behold but do not see. Your wonder opened wide the world, And gave it, shining, back to me. The Cover: Spring in Millcreek Canyon, Utah Transparency by L. Paul Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: View of Tomorrow, by L. Paul Roberts Mary Scopes I surely enjoy the Magazine. The colored pictures are beautiful. 1 just received the March issue with all those lovely pictures of England. My grandson is on a mission there. Meadow Street in Preston, England, is so beautiful, where my wonderful grandson is. All of England is beautiful, with its rolling green hills—what a wonderful place to be. The article ''The Lord Is My Strength,'' by Sister Winniefred Manwaring was just what! Needed today. Gladys Rudd Salt Lake City, Utah I just received my March Magazine. It is a beautiful copy and interesting because both Grandfather Turner and Grandmother came from England. The pictures are very beautiful. Lula Kelley Prescott, Arizona Thank you for the lovely gesture of making the birthday column possible —showing that more and more of our elderly sisters are enjoying seeing their names in print for their natal day. It is good to know that so many sisters are living to a wonderful, useful old age. Vera Pettit Layton, Utah I was overjoyed today. Coming home from Relief Society meeting, I picked up the beautiful March Magazine, and was much interested in the colored pictures of the countryside and landmarks of Northern England, the beautiful River Ribble and Meadow Street in Preston. Then I quickly read the special feature "Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England,'' and to my great surprise, found the history of my great-grandmother, almost as I have it. I am a great-granddaughter of Ann Elizabeth Walmsley and her dear husband. 1! Have heard my grandmother relate the story of the miraculous ' healing of her mother and her great faith and testimony. I am very proud of my heritage and of the wonderful Relief Society organization. Della V. Passey Davis Portland, Oregon 322 ff I very much enjoyed the poem "The Oakland Temple,'' by Margery S. Stewart in the February issue of the Magazine. It is truly inspired, and magnificently, purely beautiful. She has always been my favorite Latter-day Saint poet, and this is her masterpiece, in my opinion. Margaret B. Jorgensen Los Angeles, California - I was so thrilled to find in the February issue of the Magazine Ethel Jacobson's poem "Valentine for Stephanie.'' I, too, have a little Valentine named Stephanie, who is six months old. Thank you very much for a very helpful and interesting magazine. Claudine H. Brimhall Farmington, New Mexico What a beautiful cover for the March Magazine. I picked it up and laid it down, and had to pick it up again. It brought a calm and restful feeling to me. In this fast-moving and ~ congested world, it was just what I needed. Dorothy J. Smith Salt Lake City,. Utah Thank you for the beauty contained in ''The Time of the Singing of Birds" (March editorial by Vesta P. Crawford). It is lovely. I am sure the hearts of many readers will be warmed and strengthened by it. This issue of the Magazine seems beautiful throughout. Miriam R. Anderson San Bernardino, California I wish to tell you how much I enjoy the lovely Magazines. My husband is a student here, and he has very little time to spare, but henever misses reading my Magazine. The Magazines are a constant source of inspiration to us in rearing our son and building our family relationships. I gave some of the old copies of the Magazine to my: neighbor to help her with Christmas decorating ideas. Later, I found her reading the Magazines. ''They are too beautiful to spoil,"' she said. No college student should be without the Magazine. Mrs. Julia Whiting Moscow, Idaho ¢9) the Relief Society Magazir = oe 

Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Ae manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.