EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We, the sisters of Deweyville, were or-
ganized into a branch of the Relief Society,
Aug. 6th, 1875, by Sister Eliza R. Snow Sis-
ter Harriet Snow and Pres. J. C. Dewey, as
follows:
	Mrs. Mary Dewey, President
	"	Mary Marble,	} Counselors.
	"	Amelia Saunders, }
	Mary E. Howard, Secretary.
	Mary Saunders, Assistant Secretary.
	Martha B. Holdaway, Treasurer.
	We had twenty members enrolled. We
meet Thursday afternoon every two weeks,
and enjoy a good degree of the Spirit of
the Lord. Our meetings are well attended,
considering the scattered position  of our lit-
tle settlement, extending ten miles North
and South. We also have a Retrenchment
Association a Young Men's Mutual Im-
provement Association. We feel it a great
[Column 3]
privilege and blessing to have societies
where we can meet as a band of sisters and
speak to each other and strengthen each oth-
er in our most holy religion.
	We read a great deal from your excellent
paper and gain from it a great deal of infor-
mation. Our prayers and desires are with
you, together with all the societies-of-the
Saints, in helping to roll on the kingdom of
God.
	We remain your sisters in the church and
kingdom of God,
			MARY DEWEY, President,
		MARY E. HOWARD, Secretary.

			LEHI, May 15th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies of the Retrenchment
Association of this place held their first An-
nual Meeting April 29th, 1876. The meet-
ing was well attended and a good spirit
prevailed. After the usual exercises and
reading of the minutes, a number of the
young ladies expressed their feelings; es-
says were read and recitations given.
	Mrs. Coleman, President, and other offi-
cers and members of the Relief Society
were present. President Mrs. Coleman
spoke of the great privileges we enjoyed;
exhorted us to prepare ourselves to assist
in the great work to be accomplished in the
last days, to pray to the Lord for strength
and he would never forsake us. Mrs. Ann
Evans expressed her pleasure at the progress
the young ladies had made; exhorted us to
keep the word of wisdom in every sense.
Mrs. Davis said we should feel thankful for
the many privileges and blessings we enjoy.
Told us to seek for wisdom, that we might
lay a foundation for future usefulness. Mrs.
Standring said we should set an example
worthy of imitation; that we should be
tried and proven in every way, but if we
put our trust in the Lord, and called upon
His holy name, He would hear, answer, and
bless us. Exhorted us to honor ourselves
and our God, be firm to our integrity, and
retrench from everything wrong or dis-
pleasing in the sight of the Lord; prayed
that we might have wisdom to enable us to
do the will of the Lord. Mrs. Bushman
and Mrs. Gaddie also gave us some good ad-
vice.
	Our Society is prospering, a spirit of union
prevails. The young ladies take great in-
terest in the meetings, and seem desirous
to persevere and overcome all temptation.
			ORINDA DAVIS, President,
			SARAH TAYLOR, Secretary.


THE UNIVERSITY of Edinburgh in Scot-
land has received a collection of Persian,
Arabic and Sanscrit manuscripts. Among
them is a complete copy of the Hindoo epic
poem, "Mahabharata," in the form of a roll,
228 feet long and 5 1/2 inches wide, profusely
illustrated in colors and gold, representing
scenes described in the work. The writing
is very minute, there being 12 lines in every
inch. Another of the manuscripts is a
copy of the "Shah, Nameh" of Firdansi,
the most ancient poem in the modern Per-
sian language, illustrated with paintings
of Oriental scenes. The collection numbers
about 125 volumes, and contains many his-
torical works and firmans.


THERE is often in one kind word, one
look of sympathizing affection, or one small
act of disinterested love, more of real no-
bleness of spirit than in actions which have
rung in the ears, and found an echo in the
hearts of admiring thousands.


