	ALPINE CITY, UTAH Co., May 8[-]h.
EDITORS' EXPONENT:
	Having been for some time a careful reader
of our Woman's paper, I feel it my duty to ac-
knowledge my satisfaction with the same,
knowing that it contains much good informa-
tion and instruction for both old and young, if
only brought into practice, according to the
privileges granted us by our Heavenly Father.
One thing I regret and that is that I did not
subscribe for it in the commencement. I take
great pleasure in reading the correspondence
from different settlements, as it conveys to me
that spirit and feeling of oneness, that is so
highly to be prized in connection with the
great and glorious Latter day work. It is a
great satisfaction to know that we are co-work-
ers with each other in the cause of building up
the kingdom of God, and striving to work out
our own salvation, which ought to be the great
object of our lives, having taken upon our-
selves the name of Latter-day Saints. Per-
haps a few words about our little secluded set-
tlement would not be amiss; it is small, but
nevertheless the most of the people are alive to
their duties, and I feel safe in saying that we
do not lack good teachings and examples from
those that are placed over us.
	We have a Relief Society under the judic-
ious care and management of Mrs. Margaret Mc-
Cullough, and through her untiring efforts and
also the efforts of the sisters, it is steadily pro-
gressing and has proved a great blessing in
many respects; as our numbers are but small,
there are but few who need assistance in a tem-
poral point of view. We have also a Young
Ladies' Retrenchment Association which is
well attended and appreciated by the young
ladies. It was organized one year ago last
April by the President and Counselors of the Re-
lief Society; since then they have made the best
use of every available opportunity for improv-
ing their minds. We have also a Young Men's 
Association, who have been favored with a vis-
it from Bros. Hardy and Young, whose excel-
lent teachings have already proved a great ben-
efit. They have sown good seed on good ground
which will germinate and in due time bring
forth good fruit; for we have good young men
among us, as well as young ladies, in our little
isolated home, who if proper[-]y guided will be
able to do much good in bearing off this ki[-]g-
dom.
	In conclusion I beg to express my hope that
your paper may meet with the patronage it
deserves.						M. A.

[Column 2]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At the annual meeting, held on the 25th of 
April, at the Thirteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Salt Lake City, the Seventh Annual
Report of the Relief Society of that ward was
read.
	The names of the present officers are as fol-
lows, viz.

	Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, President,
	"	Bathsheba W. Smith,	} Counselors.
	"	Lydia Ann Wells,		}
	"	Elizabeth H. Goddard Secretary,
	"	Emmeline B. Wells, Assist. Sec'y.
	"Mrs. Relief Atwood, Treasurer.

	The balance of last Reports and Receipts by
Teachers during the past year amounting in
cash to................................ $ [-]9 17
In sundries amounting to .			182 80
Disbursed to sick and
	needy...........................		81 07	120 25
Leaving a balance in
	Treasury of................. .	8 10	62 55
Donated by Sisters to St.
	George Temple.............	3[-] 50
Temple  Clothes etc. to
	Lamanites.......................	37 75
Credit to the Sisters for 
	work ........ ..................		18 65
Cash invested with inter-
	est, amounting to........	473 06.

	Articles made by the Society during the year
too numerous to mention in detail, consisting
of bedding, suits of clothes for burial and oth-
er purposes, ladies dresses and under-clothing,
aprons, caps, stockings etc; also men's shirts,
under-clothing, socks, etc.
	President Mrs. R. Grant expressed a wish
that we use our surplus means in assisting to
build the Temple, realizing the necessity of
employing our time and ability as much as
possible in that direction.
	Bishop Woolley made some excellent re-
marks, expressed his satisfaction with the ex-
ertions of the Sisters; felt that the burden rest-
ed upon the few.  Gave some good advice to the
sisters and hoped we would be one with the
brethren in forwarding the work on the Tem-
ple.
	There were some of our good sisters present
by invitation whom we would have been
pleased to have heard from, but meeting was
adjourned early on account of the funeral of
Bro. Charles A. Long; where most wished to 
attend.
