										BYRON.

	These lines would apply admirably to many
people in the present day. Indeed this might,
with all propriety, be termed an age of gossip.
There seems to be an ardent desire prevalent,
to regulate the affairs of one's neighbors and
friends. Individual life is not exempt from
public notice. The newspapers partake of the
people, and the columns of personals and gos-
sip are gleaned first, and such periodicals as
contain most of this precious commodity have
the readiest sale. What some lady wore, how
it suited her style, how expensive it was, what
she did or said on a certain occasion: these and

[Column 2]
like topics form the most popular literature of
a large class of persons. Private life is [-]a[-]aded
before the public, to interest the world at large.
Tittle tattle, slander, and similar subjects, are
the stock in hand of a large majority, to be
had at wholesale; and apparently it is circulat-
ed too freely and extensively to become a dead
weight in the market.
	More especially is individual gossip, in regard
to all persons who fill public positions, in de-
mand. It is not enough to know they are ca-
pable of performing their work creditably, but
the person's private life must be held up to the
gaze of the world, and criticized and judged to
satisfy an insatiate curiosity. If there is any-
thing that Madame Grundy fails to discover,
then it is immediately construed into some-
thing mysterious or wrong. It is doubtful
whether mysteries will not soon cease to exist,
so anxious has the world become to get at the
bottom of everything. Proofs must be given
if heaven and earth and all the regions round
about are circumvented to substantiate mat-
ters.
	To enter upon a public career in this age is to
have your private life held up before the glare
of the eyes of the multitude.
	If one wants to set forth principles that will
benefit humanity, the world will immediately
demand the individual to submit to the ordeal
of public gossip. People are not satisfied with
principles of faith and action, they mu[-]t deal
with the lives and characters of persons. "It
is men, not measures."
	Why should the world care what one's do-
mestic associations are if they do not infringe
upon the rights of others? And how unjust to
require one's whole history to be made public
because they hold a position of honor, of use-
fulness or of trust. To be thus personal, is to
lose sight of reality, or goodness in principle
and action; and there is nothing gained by
the scrutiny to compensate for the loss.
	Every person, be they statesman, author, ar-
tist, no matter what profossion one follows or
what position one fills, has a right to some re-
serves; if one devotes time and talents to the
public good, is that not enough? But in this
day everything of a private nature is sought
after to satify sensational curiosity. It is ob-
noxious to persons of refined feeling. There
is something far better to occupy the time and
to discuss in common conversation, than the
goings and comings, the habits, the tastes, the
fancies, the inner life of individuals.
	If one only writes a few verses, smoothly
and clearly, that chance to have some merit
in them, immediately gossip sets about to hunt
up some individual vice or frailty to put in the
scale to outweigh the real worth.
	Scandal is, at present, popular, and if a check
is not put upon it, it is in danger of becoming
an overgrown weed, to ruin society, to weaken
and destroy confidence, to lower the character
of literature, and depreciate men and women.


[Column 1]
