				PRIEST.

	Author of "Over the River," "Shall we knew
			each other there?"

	How many hearts have been touched by
the pathos and beauty of the familiar poem,
"Over the river they beckon to me!" Al-
though these lines are known and cherished
as household words; in thousands of homes,
where the English language is spoken, and,
though they have awakened a chord of
sympathy in so many sorrowing hearts, yet
hardly any body knows anything of the
author, who, like many others of the world's
choicest spirits, lived and died in poverty
and obscurity, not even understood and ap-
preciated by those who knew her best.
	It was my good fortune last summer,
while lingering among the beautiful hills of
New England, to pass a few hours in the
lovely and picturesque village of Hinsdale,
N. H., where these lines were written. I
visited the cottage where she lived, a 
small, but neat, white cottage, overlooking
the beautiful Ashuelot river, that foams and
frets as it rushes, in headlong haste, over
the rough rocks and stones that impede its
progress; and, as I looked at the dark grove
of pines beyond, that seemed to stand in
calm unruffled peace, ever pointing up-
wards, I thought how naturally, while look-
ing at these, as she must have done, so of-
ten, she would think of the peace beyond
the river, and I could better understand the
image in her mind when she wrote:

	"Over the river, they becken to me,
	Loved ones who've crossed to the further side,
	The gleam of their snowy, robes I see,
	But their voices are lost in the dashing tide."

	This cottage is now occupied by an aunt
of Nancie's, by marriage, but she could tell
me little about her, except to point out to
me the factory, a little way up the river,
where she used to work, and thither I di-
rected my steps.
	It was a paper mill, and her work was us-
ually folding paper. From the windows of
the mill the same view presented itself as
from the cottage, and there, as one who
worked with her, told me, she sat down one
day upon a pile of rags and wrote this poem.
	It seems she wrote a great deal, but
many of her poems were never offered for
publication and others, had only a limited
circulation. I am sure many will be glad
to read the following, "Shall we know each
other there?" which, it seems to me, gives
us so good a picture of the inner unknown
life and heart of the author.

		When we meet in fie[-]ds Elysian,
			Freed from this world's pain and care,
		Shall we, with our spirit-vision,
			See and know each other there?
		Can it be that death will sever
			All life's dearest, holiest ties?
		Do we look farewell forever,
			When we close these mortal eyes?
		Shall we, in their angel plumage,
			Know the loved of many years,
		Lips that smiled, when we were happy,
			Eyes that wept for all our tears?
		Ah! how drear would be e'en Heaven,
			Did not hope, with glances bright,
		Whisper that the hearts now riven,
			In that world shall reunite.
		We know the lambs are tended.
			When they come from pastures chill,
		Bleating to the fold for shelter
			From the bare and frosty hill,	
		By the ribbon, red or azure,
			That we tied long months before;
		And we left the gate with pleasure.
			To receive them home once more.
		So shall they who've gone before us,
			Ope' for us the gate of life,
		Kiss away our fears and trembling,
			Put on us the robe of white,
		Lead us through the pastures vernal,
			By the feet of angels trod,

[Column 2]
		To the stream of life eternal,
			Flowing from the throne of God.

	To show how little she was understood or
appreciated by those around her, I will detail
part of a conversation I had with one who
worked with her at the paper mill.
	I am told you knew Miss Priest, author
of "Over the River," &c.
	"Yes, I knew Nancy Priest well, I work-
ed with her in the mill a long time."
	"Do you know whether she was born at
Hinsdale?"
	"She was born in Massachusetts, but her
father and mother moved to Hinsdale,
when she was a young girl."
	Do you know her age?
	"No, I think she must have been over
thirty, when she died, that was three or 
four years ago."
	Have you any picture of her?
	"Yes, I have one, but she was very
homely."
	At my request she brought it, and I saw,
in a poorly executed photograph, a face
that showed deep intense feeling and sen-
sitive nature with longings for a higher
spiritual and intellectual life. Her hair
seemed to be a mass of luxuriant soft brown
curls, her eyes dark and expressive, the
mouth rather large, and though only show-
ing to the eye of the physiognomist a warm
heart and strong attachments, I concludde
it was this feature of the lower part of her 
face that had condemned her in the eyes of
her friend. The face was in no wise dis-
pleasing to me, and, while looking at it with
interest, her quondam friend remarked,
"She was a very odd girl; not a great favor-
ite." 
	How so? I asked.
	"Well, in the first place she was what I 
should call lazy. Her father and mother
were poor; but, instead of working hard to
try to earn something to help them I don't
believe she earned much more than enough
to pay her board. When she worked
in the mill with me, I have often seen her
stop work for an hour or more at a time,
and sit down some where and read or
write."
	Do they allow operatives to stop when
they choose?
	"Why, yes, she wasn't working by the
day, or week, but was paid for the amount
of work she did."
	Was she not paid for her writings?
	"No, I don't think she ever had a cent for
any of them." 
	Yet some of them were published in
many papers?
	"Yes, they were copied and recopied
everywhere, the few that she published."
	Why was she not a favorite?
	"Oh, she had a very singular disposition.
She never seemed to care much about the
other girls. She was one who had a few
friends, that she was strongly attached to,
and she did not seem to care much for any-
body else; and then she was apt to be quick
and take offence if the girls laughed at
her.
	Sensitive, I suppose.
	"Yes, very, I always got along well with
her though," and here the speaker kindly
showed me some lines of poetry addressed
to herself by Miss Priest, full of affection.
She also showed me an unpublished poem
of a humorous character, descriptive of her
adventures by railway upon a certain oc-
casion. These were signed, "Nancie."
	"She had a great deal of fun about her,"
remarked her friend, "but she would not
like me to show you these, for she did not
think anything of them herself. She had
almost enough written to make a book, and
then one day she took a sudden fit, and

[Column 3]
burned them all up. "Nancie's mother used
to write to, but I don't think she ever had
anything printed."
	One day a letter was received from a lady
who said, that, after the death of a beloved
daughter, she had acidentily read the poem,
"Over the River," and was touched by it,
that she had made enquiries, and, at last
succeeded in finding the name and address
of the author. She said she had learned
that she had long been desirous of obtain-
ing a better education, and she now invited
her cordially to come and take the place of
her daughter, offering her, her love and
every advantage that money could buy.
	Nancie read the letter with a full heart.
At first it seemed to her that the desires of
her heart were to be granted, and that her
mind might feast to its content upon the
treasures of knowledge for which it had
longed. But, as she turned suddenly, she
saw her own face reflected in a small mirror
opposite. A sudden shadow fell over the
bright animated face, and she exclaimed,
"Oh, when they saw me, they would be dis-
appointed. They could not love me. I should
never take their daughter's place. No, I 
will stay." And so, with a sad heart she
took up the burden of her life again, think-
ing only, "It might have been."
	A few more years of her weary factory
life, and then her parents removed to Mass-
achusetts, where she soon married, and, in
the course of a few years, became the moth-
er of two fine boys; but during her confine-
ment at the birth of a third child, her hus-
band failing to procure suitable help her
two little boys were taken very ill. Her
true mother's heart could not endure their
suffering. Her own pain and weakness
were forgotten, and, rising from her bed,
she ministered to their wants, with that
tenderness and love that only a mother can
give. They recovered, but at the expense
of the life of their mother and her infant.
These sons, I am told, are still living, and
are promising boys. Their father has mar-
ried again.
	Thus ended the earthly life of one, who
knew few friends, few joys, who had but
little of the love and light, for which she
longed, whose life was almost a perpetual
struggle and weariness. Coarse associates
laughed at what they called her homely
face, crushed and wounded her sensitive
spirit with taunts and jeers, and, when she
sought a little time to feed her starving
soul with intellectual food, she was scout-
ed as lazy. Thus was she despised and ha-
ted for the very traits, that, under more
favorable circumstances, would have pro-
cured for her love and praise. There is some-
thing extremely touching in the glimpses we
are able to obtain of the life of this gifted but
poor and lonely girl. No wonder her heart
and hopes looked forward so eargely and
constantly to that brighter world, of which
she thought and wrote so much.
	It sometimes seems mysterious to us,
that minds and hearts, fitted, either by na-
tive genius, or superior cultivation, to do
great good in the world around them, should
live and die in obscurity, fettered by cir-
cumstances, and thus prevented from using
those gifts; but our minds are too little to
understand God's plan. We only know
that He is perfect love, and "What we
know not now we shall know hereafter."
After all, this life is but the beginning.
Nothing in the Divine economy is ever
lost. He sows the good seed here and bu-
ries it deep in darkness, but to bring it
forth again in due time, enriched and wa-
tered with tears and trials, to expand and
ripen to a glorious perfection in the sum-
mer land of our hopes. Ex.


