			A TESTIMONY.

	I have long felt it my duty to bear a tes-
timony with the rest of my sisters, and to
publish a written article in defense of the
principles in which we believe, in which
we have lived, and which we continually
advocate by faith and practice.
	I have been a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints for over
thirty-six years; have passed through many
trials and persecutions with this people;
have been driven from and robbed of my
home from time to time, together with my
brethren and sisters, and have had my house
plundered by a wicked mob.

[Column 2]
	My husband has been shot at before my
eyes when he was carrying a flag of truce
and conducting two of the enemy's men in-
to their camp. At one time in the State of
Missouri three or four of a mob came into
my house, armed with swords, pistols and
bowie-knives, and demanded to know where
my husband was, and when I refused to be-
tray him into their hands they threatened
to blow out my brains, but finding I would
not comply, they threatened to set fire to
the house, but were prevented by some un-
seen influence. These and similar trials
have the Saints had to endure within the
boundaries of the United States govern-
ment, where freedom and liberty are the
watch-words. But amid all the persecutions
I have been called to pass through, I have
ever felt firm in the principles of my reli-
gion.
	I was compelled to leave my home in Far
West, Missouri, on the 13th of February,
when the snow was deep and the weather
exceedingly cold, and I was unable to sit
up, having been ill for some time from hard-
ship and suffering; I journeyed to Quincy
in that delicate state.
	After heaping upon us and our people
these gross indignities, then the cry is
raised that the women of Utah are in bond-
age; that they are not free to exercise their
own will and judgment; that they only sub-
mit to polygamy through compulsion, and
they arrogate to themselves the power to
undertake to release us from tyranny and
despotism.
	To Mr. Christiancy, and all those honorable
gentlemen who interest themselves so un-
necessarily in our welfare, we would say,
we do not stand in need of any interference
in our behalf; we are not held in bondage,
we are as free as it is possible for us to be
while we have rulers sent here from other
states, who know nothing of our wishes,
our desires, or our determinations to serve
God.
	The women of the Latter-day Saints live
in an element far above the troubles and
anxieties of the women of the world; they
seek the aid and assistance of the Holy
Spirit, and rely upon the arm of the Al-
mighty, trusting in His justice, and believ-
ing, with all their hearts, the promises of
celestial glory and eternal happiness, re-
vealed to this people through the prophets,
if they live in obedience to the require-
ments of that higher law, the law of Celes-
tial Marriage, revealed through the prophet
Joseph.
	It is these promised blessings in the fu-
ture, to which we continually look forward,
that buoy us up under circumstances that,
viewed from a worldly standard, would be
wholly unendurable. For this we are will-
ing to make similar sacrifices to Abraham
when he offered up his only son, believing
and trusting in God that all would be well.
	We rejoice in the principles of plural
marriage, and would not have it otherwise
if we could. To us there is a nobility of
the highest type attainable on earth, coming
through the patriarchal order of marriage.
I, myself, have lived in it for thirty years,
and I believe I loved my husband truly and
devotedly, and was married to him expect-
ing to be his only wife so long as I should

[Column 3]
live; now he has a numerous family, and I
love them and feel a tenderness for them
which is strengthened as years pass by. I
rejoice in their society, in their welfare and
happiness; I feel the same pride in the
children of other wives that I feel in my
own. It is a sacred and holy relationship
instituted by God, and none but those whose
hearts are right before Him, and who desire
to live pure lives, will be able to abide in it.
The Lord said he would try the heart and
assuredly His words must be fulfilled. It
is useless te fight against the kingdom of
God.
	Women understand the principles of
their religion, and are as willing to die for
it as men are. Therefore, we pray you,
spare your (pretended) sympathy extended
to us, we do not need it. We have some-
thing far better than anything you can offer
us. Look to the wives and daughters of
the nation; deal honestly and honorably by
them, and leave us the free exercise of our
religion, which the glorious constitution of
our forefathers so wisely and nobly devised
to protect all.			SARAH D. RICH.
	Salt Lake City.


