	EDUCATION OF GIRLS IN EGYPT.

	After visiting the boys' schools I went on
to the girls' schools, which are now an in-
stitution of exceptional importance in
Egypt. Women have hitherto, under the
Moslem rule, led a veiled, secluded, useless,
ignorant life in the harem. Here and there
European governesses have been intro-
duced, but the cases are so exceedingly rare
that it may be broadly stated that up to two
years ago women were not educated in
Egypt, and, consequently, national educa-
tion wholly wanted the true foundation of
all teaching—the mother's lessons to her
children. But two years ago one of the
Khedive's wives, a woman in advance of
her country, determined to found and en-
dow a school for her sex in Cairo. An an-
cient palace was utilized, a staff of teachers
organized, dormitories arranged, class-rooms
and play-ground provided, and the Cairo
public invited to send their daughters to be
taught, fed, lodged and clothed free of
charge. At first the invitation met with no
response. Even eighteen days before the
day named for the opening of the school
there was not a single name entered. The
authorities were in despair. The project
seemed hopelessly in advance of public

[Column 2]
opinion. It was seriously proposed to draft
in a number of fonndling children from the
hospital, so that the school should not be
wholly without scholars. But on the eigh-
teenth day came an Arab mother with her
daughter. Three days later a batch of sev-
enteen arrived, "et apres cela," said my in-
formant, "elles sont arrivees comme une
avalanche," The school would only contain
300, and on the opening day 400 had to be
rejected. Since then the applications have
never ceased, and there are now over 900
waiting acceptance. A second school has
been opened, a third is in process of erec-
tion, and numerously-signed petitions for
similar institutions have come from the
large towns in the interior; in fact, popular
prejudice is completely routed.
	The instruction given is such as is calcu-
lated to enable a woman to become the capa-
ble mistress of her household. Twenty-four
hours a week are given to intellectual train-
ing, the rest are devoted to instruction in
needlework, cooking, washing, and the pro-
per management of a house. The training
is for five years. Every year there is a
grand lottery for the sale of all the needle-
work, and the proceeds are put by to make
the nest-egg for the dowry.
	A pleasant, smiling young Frenchwoman,
the directress, received us. The schools
are in a fine old Arab house, built in two
stories, round a quadrangle, with large and
lofty rooms, and a fountain and garden to
look upon. We first saw the girls at needle-
work, from plain needlework up through
the various stages of crochet, double stitch,
and other mysteries, to exquisite lacework
and Turkish embroidery. There were about
a hundred sitting together. They were all
dressed in a plain, brown cotton, loose gown,
fastened by a leather band round the waist.
Their faces were unveiled, and they wore
their hair in plaits or falling loose down the
back, but always fastened by a blue silk
ribbon. All had ornaments—necklaces
or bracelets or earrings or rings, but no ob-
trusive adornment caught my eye. Their
boots were Europea[-], and they were all sit-
ting on benches in European fashion—the
Turkish cross-legged style being forbidden.
	There were various races—Circassian, Nu-
bian, Egyptian, Levantine, and even French
—of very different classes, from Pasha's
daughters to girls of no rank whatever—all
religions, Mohommedan, Copt, Jew, and
Christian. There were negro slaves—thir-
ty-eight all together—rescued from bond-
age, and being now trained with a view es-
pecially to entering domestic service. From
the sewing class we went to the reading,
writing and language classes (Arabic, Turk-
ish and French). In all, the quickness of
apprehension and the rapidity of progress
was remarkable, by the report of the teach-
ers, and as far as I could test this statement
I found it true. "My girls learn even more
quickly than Arab boys," said the direct-
ress. I heard the fable of the wolf, the fox
and lamb dictated in Arabic, and it was
written for the most part without error by
the girls in Turkish. I examined one brown-
faced, woolly headed little girl of eleven in
geography. She only knew Africa. But
she gave me the names of the departments
of Egypt, and pointed out on the map Cairo,
Alexandria, Port Said, Suez, Assouan, Dar-
fur, Abyssinia, Madagascar, Zanzibar, Mo-
rocco, Senegambia, and Tunis. I then
asked her how she would go to Tunis. "By
the desert, on a camel." "Is there no other
way?" "Yes, by the sea." "How would
you get to the sea?" "By the railway"
(which the Arabs call "baboor" a corruption
of the Italian "vapore"). "Is there no
other way than the railway?" "Yes; by

[Column 3]
the river, or a camel." "Why would you
prefer the baboor?" "Because it is quick-
est." All this was said without hesitation
and with a broad grin. We saw washing,
ironing and cooking in other parts of the
buildings; there is a capital bath, and the
bed-rooms, fitted with neat little iron bed-
steads, looked clean, airy and comfortable.
We wound up our inspection with the
Egyptian national anthem, performed by a
small pupil on the piano, who had only
learned music three months.
	Education is in its infancy in Egypt. But
what I have described is the germ of a good
system, which year by year is gradually
supplanting the old schools. Two things
are essential—normal schools and plenty of
funds.—London Times.


