		HOME APPRECIATION.

	What words of encouragement and praise
are ever so sweet to the children as those which
fall from the mother's lips? Surely none be-
side. It is of the greatest importance that
mothers should understand and correctly esti-
mate the abilities with which their children
are endowed, that they may train the tender
minds in wisdom. For, as the modern world
is beginning to comprehend, a higher respon-
sibility rests upon mothers in regard to what
the world shall be in future, than upon any
other member of a family or of society.
What scene is more strikingly illustrative of
moral, intellectual and even physical beauty

[Column 2]
and worth, than that presented by the domes-
tic circle in which a mother holds her proper
place? The source of tenderness, the centre
of affection, the bond of social union, the um-
pire in all contention, the forwarder and reg-
ulator of each salutary plan, the general foun-
tain of cheerfulness, hope and consolation! To
such a mother it is given to clear up unjust
suspicion; to ward off the unmerited blow; to
defend the wounded spirit from the injury to
which it would sullenly submit; to encourage
the hopeless, when thrown back in competition
of talent; to point out to those who have been
defeated other pursuits in which they may yet
succeed; to stand between the timid and the
danger they dread; to think and act for and in
behalf of each and all, promising, hoping, be-
lieving that faults ignorantly or thoughtlessly
committed, will never be willingly perpetrat-
ed again, thus making peace with offended au-
thority. There can be no danger that the value
of such a mother may be over estimated.
	To the young wife and mother, how price-
less are those tokens of love and confidence,
too often charily given, which indicate that
her careful efforts to create and sustain home
happiness are noticed and appreciated! From
observation as well as by tradition we are led
to consider that young husbands are extremely
liable to forget, shortly after the waning of
the honey-moon, all about those pretty little
compliments with which they are ever so lav-
ish as lovers. It should not be so, and where
men are not blind to their own interests, they
invariably contrive to keep their memories re-
freshed on these subjects. When such a one,
who stands not in his own light, comes home
at evening, weary with the labors of the day,
he does not fail to bestow the pleased look and
merited words of encouragement wherever
there is an opportunity, even though he may
not find everything about the house in the ex-
act order that a more experienced housewife
might be able to maintain. After the evening
party, concert or mutual improvement meet-
ing where the young wife has contributed to
the entertainment, her song, reading or recita-
tion does not pass unnoticed by the husband.
If she has acquitted herself admirably, he
does not leave all the delicate encomiums for
others to whisper, but is as eager to let her
know that he appreciates her talents and ac-
complishments now, as he was in the days of
their engagement. As one congratulatory sen-
tence from his lips are worth more to her than
all that could be spoken by others, so should he
delight the more in speaking it. That sen-
tence is worth double to her now, what it was
in former times, when he, like all friends and
admirers, sought her favor rather than her
positive interest, and was liable to flatter when
the simple truth would have sufficed. And so
in proportion, should he be doubly sincere and
doubly tender in his expressions. If in jus-
tice he must sometimes offer criticisms which
are not so pleasant, he will do so in as manly
and courteous words as he would have used in
those other days when to have offended her
womanly pride or wounded her sensitive feel-
ings, would have caused him most painful re-
grets. Some one has written that "a happy
wife NEED not long to be cou[-]ted again." the
true woman who has been fairly won, and who
is well treated as a wife, WILL not wish to be
courted again.
	The kind good husband and father, certainly
holds the most honorable position that it is
possible for mortal man to occupy. His will
is the law of his household, a law which needs
no enforcement but is joyously complied with
by each one, as it ever tends to the happiness
of all. His superiority is proudly and lovingly


acknowledged by those who constitute his lit-
tle realm. His comfort and pleasure are natu-
rally first thought of and provided for, by all
save himself; and his affectionate thanks and 
reciprocal cheerfulness and attention to the
wants of the others, are ample rewards for all
the thought and care and labor expended for
him.
	Some very practical person, will be sure to
intimate that in writing the above, we have
been wasting time by drawing Utopian sketch-
es. We make ready for such remarks by an-
swering afore hand that such pictures need not
be simply ideal if men and women will only
take pains to make them real. Courting is
only more charming than married life, because
lovers curb their tempers, guard their tongues,
control their passions and seek by all the gen-
tle and loving powers of their better natures to
make themselves agreeable, their companion-
ship desirable; while husbands and wives cease
to do these things. Why forsake that better
life when it has once been entered upon? It is
but to continue love's most beautiful and sa-
cred duties for a lifetime instead of only for a few
short weeks or months.
					[-]. B. Wells


