TEN YEARS INTO THE FUTURE.

	What numerous and varied changes will
show themselves in all our surroundings—
what a throng of new facts and faces, will
stare at us when the index on the dial
plate of time points to the closing figure of
the decennial period.
	The scenes of to-day. The dear familiar
scenes through which we have moved since
infancy, endeared to us by so many associa-
tions firmly linked together in the chain of
recollection. All, all must change, nor they
alone. We who view them will change,
and as we advance further into life there
are others behind to fill our places. Like
scenes in a panorama we glide from infancy
to old age. Ten years from hence—to-day
we are a crowd of boys and girls—then,
where and what will we be? Now we have
hopes and desires. Will we ever see them
fulfilled? Will our lives be successes or
failures? These are questions which natu-
rally arise in the minds of the thoughtful
youth of each sex at the beginning of ac-
tive life.
	Here is one of us—one of the boys—
bright, good-natured, witty and intelligent.
An able writer for one so young, and fond
of satire and humor as his writings testify.
His library is composed mostly of satrical
and humorous works, as Swift, Smollet,
and Dickens. His aim is to be an author
and if he lives he will be.
	In fancy I see him in the future, hard at
work in his library, surrounded by books
and papers gathering flowers from the gar-
den of the mind, transferring them to the
fields of literature to enrich the minds of
those who choose to pluck them.
	Another has a taste for literature but
studies with a different object. His desire
is to cultivate the soil, to become an agri-
culturist and utilize the scientific knowledge
he has attained for the successful operation
of his plans in this line of life.


Nothing will suit another but to edit a
paper, to take a stand in the ranks of the
journalistic army and combat with error, and
fight for the good of the human family.
	Here is one of a poetic nature, and has a
desire to leave to the world the gleanings
of his imagination to refine the rougher na-
tures of those who follow him, and whose
admiring praise and gratitude will perpet-
uate his name.
	One has a predilection for the dramatic
stage and the name of S[---]speare is to him
a synonym for all that is great and noble in
human nature.
	I recall to mind many others, some of
like tastes and others entirely different; but
all having some inherent ambitious ideas to
make a mark in the world worthy of com-
mendation.
	Boys, let us hope that our ambitions are
based upon high and intelligent principles,
that our motives are good, and that we may
have grace to make the most of our time
in the accomplishment of them.
	Let's take a start now, and perseveringly
labor and see who is furthest ahead in his
profession ten years from to-day.
						ANONYMOUS.
	May 22nd, 1876.


