EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society meetings are well at-
tended, that is, in comparison with what
they have been in times past; indeed, I
think there never was a time since our first
organization when the sisters have exhibit-
ed more energy and zeal to carry out the
counsel and instructions of the President
and Counselors than they do at the present
time. Pres. Rich takes a deep interest in
our Society, and we are often blessed with
his fatherly counsel and advice at our meet-
ings. We were favored with the presence
of Sister M. I. Horne at some of our meet-
ings, and I can truly say that I never en-
joyed myself better at any meeting that I
ever attended than when listening to her.
Her words were replete with good counsel
and instruction, which, if lived up to, would
be of great benefit to those who had the
pleasure of listening to her. I feel very
thankful that we have the privilege of hav-
ing our sisters visit us from the fountain
head. The members feel inspired with
new life and vigor, and a greater determi-
nation is manifest to persevere in every-
thing which is calculated to purify and enno-
ble our natures, that we may be worthy to
be classed with our sister societies through-
out the Territory. We desire to be one
with them in everything that is good and
useful.
	Sister Horne, while here, organized a
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
which is now in a flourishing condition.
The young ladies are, one and all, very
much interested in the meetings, and show a
determination not to be behind in anything
which is calculated to make them worthy
Daughters of Zion. The minutes of their
organization will soon be forwarded by the
Secretary. I would advise all who have
not organized yet to speedily do so, for I
know they serve to exert a good influence
over the minds of our young people. Be-
fore they were organized here there was
scarcely a young girl attended our meetings,
notwithstanding a great influence was used
to prevail upon them to come. But now
what a difference! since they have a Socie-
ty of their own they show a desire to attend
our meetings, and to gain all the knowledge
and instruction which lies in their power,
to prepare them for a life of usefulness in
the kingdom of God.
	The young ladies got up a Leap Year
Party a short time since. Our new school
house was beautifully decorated for the oc-
casion with evergreens, pictures, mirrors,
flags and banners, all very tastefully ar-
ranged, and presented a very beautiful ap-
pearance. Everything was managed in the
best of order, and was said to be the best
party of the season. They have adopted
President Young's advice and round danc-
ing is abandoned; parties commence at two
and dismiss at ten, and they are all quite
reconciled to the change. At first it seemed
rather odd, but the desire to obey the in-
structions of our beloved President over-
came every other consideration. We have
an excellent Sunday School, with about one
hundred and twenty scholars in regular at-
tendance, also two good day schools.
	We have long, cold winters which are
very trying to some, but the people enjoy
excellent health, which in some measure
makes amends for the disadvantages which
they labor under in this cold climate,
and we have plenty of time in our long win-
ter evenings for mental culture, recreations
and social gatherings, which have been im-
proved to the utmost this winter. There

[Column 2]
have been some excellent lectures delivered
here, also some very good performances at
our theatre; in fact, there has been scarcely
an evening throughout the winter but that
our schoolhouse has been lighted, either for
meetings or amusements, of some kind, so
you see we manage to live and enjoy our-
selves, notwithstanding our proximity to
the North Pole.
	Praying the Lord to bless and aid you in
your labors, I remain your sister in the gos-
pel,
				SARAH M. POMEROY,
						Assis't Sec'y.
	Paris, Bear Lake Co., March 15, 1876.

	A report of a meeting of the Relief So-
ciety of the 1st Ward, held February 3rd,
1876. There were present on the stand our
Bishop, Joseph Warburton, and one of his
Counselors, Alexander Steel; there was also
a good attendance of the sisters. Pres. Mrs.
M. G. Chase said, "I feel proud to see so
many of my sisters present this afternon; it
makes me feel encouraged, and it also shows
they are trying to live their religion. I
would exhort the sisters to live humble and
prayerful before the Lord, for the day has
come that we must live our religion or step
one side and let others take our places."
	She was followed by quite a number of
the sisters, who expressed their desires to
live their religion and use their influence to
build up the kingdom of God on the earth.
Much good counsel was given and a good
spirit prevailed. Bishop J. Warburton
spoke in a spirited manner, gave the sisters
some good counsel and exhorted them to
live their religion and attend to every duty
that was required of them, especially in
looking after the wants of the poor and
needy; advised them to carry out the coun-
sel given by authority and all would be well
with them. Elder A. Steel made some ex-
cellent remarks. In consequence of Mrs.
Julia Adams and Mrs. Sidney Thayne re-
signing the office of Counselors, because of
removing from the city, Pres. Mrs. M. G.
Chase chose for her Counselors Mrs. Mar-
garet Steel and Mrs. Elizabeth S. Higgs.
It was unanimously voted to sustain them
in that office and they were blessed and set
apart by the Bishop and his counselor. Clos-
ing prayer by Bishop J. Warburton.
	With many earnest wishes for the success
of the EXPONENT, and for the welfare and
upbuilding of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel,
	MRS. MERIAM G. CHASE, Pres't.
