			BY REQUEST.

Lady, thou hast asked me to address thee
By the aid of my lov'd poetic lyre!
And humble though it be—and all too weak
To give the diapason of my soul,
Yet I bless—yes, yes, I bless the Giver,
Who has strung my soul with chords so sweet,
That to the mighty touch of nat[-]re they respond,
When love and kindness give the key note full.
Language is poor to demonstrate the heart,
And hence we often represent ourselves
Amiss, where we alone desire to be true;
But Saints see "eye to eye" and comprehend
That grand pulsation, "heart to heart"—and hence
Though poor my language, I will hope to give
The honest feelings of an honest heart.

For years I've known thy face, and musing gazed
Upon it as we gaze upon a star
Away in the blue ether of the summer night,
Or as a picture set for contemplation.

The "human face divine" has ever borne
A mighty charm for my poetic soul—
I love to sit and gaze, and read—and read—
And trace the character that's written there;
And thine was surely in my studio,
Its almost Grecian outline, its features,
Chiseled, classic, chaste and regular,
Such as sculptors choose for models, and to mould;
And the eye—that glorious orb that lights
The human face with fire divine—in thee
Bore calm and gentle rule o'er all the rest;
Such study, Lady, hast thou been to me.
I describe thy face as index of thy soul
Which simply shows the jewel finely set.
Where much is given, much requir'd will be,
And hence RESPONSIBILITY, the head,
The gifted head—humility will bow;
The soul is cognizant of its nobility,
And feels it bears upon its mortal brow
The seal and coronet of Deity!
And hence, the noble strive to grace their high
Descent with deeds that ne'er shall tarnish it;
Their great ambition is to be a Saint,
To bless their God for all He has bestowed,
And hold His gifts, as Stewards hold the wealth
Their master in their hands has placed,
To be accounted for with usury.

Sister, thou wert kind in thy expressions
To my humble self, saying thou did'st desire
We should mingle more, that we might comprehend
Each other better than in days that's past;
To which, most freely doth my heart respond;
I care not for the pompous crowd, all gay
With fashion's vain, interminable maze,
A friend's warm clasp, knowing their heart
A true and faithful heart, which is God's gift,
Is more to me than Croesus could bestow.
Lady, we will meet—and that you thought was pride
In me, I trust will vanish as the sun
Drinks up the morning dew from flow'r and free;
And that we may as two fond sisters be.
							HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City, May 4th.


[Column 1]
						For the Exponent.
