[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 26 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Sar May I tell you how much I like the article "Wearing a Pretty Face," by Mabel Law Atkinson, in the October 1955 issue of the Magazine. It is one of the most inspiring features I have ever read. I am reminded that time for New Year's resolutions is drawing near, and among those which I shall make I shall incorporate the philosophy contained in Mrs. Atkinson's article. And just to make certain that I remember to wear a pretty face myself, I shall keep a copy of the October Magazine handy so that I can refer to it often. —Edna Day Idaho Falls, Idaho I particularly enjoyed the story "The Scarlet Cloak of Love," by Lane Stanaway Christian in the December Magazine, and also the lovely poem "Christmas Night," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard. The poem is an exquisite piece with a deeper meaning implied! I was proud to be in the same issue with that fine work! —Maude Rubin Santa Ana, California I was proud of the story "The Scarlet Cloak of Love," by Lane Stanaway Christian in the December issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the poem "The Greater Part," by Della Adams Leitner, my Idaho friends. I also enjoyed the article ""Mother Had a Way," by Leone FE. McCune. I met her at a writer's convention in Logan some time ago. By way of commendation for the literature lessons, I might say that while attending a convention in Boise last fall, I was seated between two college professors, teachers of English literature. During the dinner their conversation turned to the great writers of the ages. I was surely appreciative of the fine course of study which has been given us in the literature lessons, for I was able to follow them and join in the conversation. —TFrances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Page 74 I like the serial "Hermanas" currently running in The Relief Society Magazine very well. It has more to it than some of the other serials have had, and its effectiveness is enhanced by the foreign setting. It is beautifully written, and the Church element is brought in naturally— not thrown in. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I especially enjoyed and appreciated the short articles in the August issue. How simply stated, yet how powerful are the sermons without preaching in "Light Bulbs," by Elsie Scott; "An Invisible Means of Support," by Caroline E. Miner; "Watchers," by Kate Richards (I needed this); "Trouble," by Lucille R. Taylor; "A Song of the Heart" (lovely, lovely), by Elsie Sim Hansen; and "Look to the Mountains," by Blanche Johnson. How beautifully and effectively stated are the timeless values in "Family Patterns" (editorial by Marianne C. Sharp). My heart sang a prayer of gratitude as I read it. Since that first reading I have reread it many times and have caught a glimpse of the glorious possibilities that are mine as a mother and grandmother — and I hope a great-grandmother. I am glad for the help this article gave me in teaching these truths to my group in our home. I am deeply appreciative for all the help we receive in our effort to get our own to see the importance of courtship, its sacredness and meaning in the joyous married life anticipated. Surely our leaders are inspired in the messages they give us through our Magazine from time to time. —Mabel Law Atkinson Salt Lake City, Utah We certainly appreciate The Relief Society Magazine and receive much joy and instruction from reading through each publication. —Asael T. Sorensen President Brazilian Mission Sao Paulo, Brazil