[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
HERMANAS 
115 
brick  stove  needed  the  attention  of 
two  stokers,  and  the  cavernous  sink, 
with  its  trickle  of  cold  water  was 
high  enough  to  break  a  woman's 
back.  I  thought  of  the  dirty  cob- 
webbed  walls,  the  lack  of  cupboards. 
When  Amporo  swung  open  the 
planked  door  I  saw  a  high-ceilinged 
room  freshly  whitewashed,  the  high 
windows  sparkling  and  framed  by 
freehand  drawings  of  fruit  and  flow- 
ers. The  ancient  brick  ovens  were 
covered  by  a  dark  blue  cloth  and 
brightened  by  a  basket  of  golden 
mangos. 
When  my  eyes  had  taken  in  this 
splendor,  I  saw  something  that  was 
akin  to  a  miracle,  a  shining  table 
top,  enameled  electric  range,  so  new 
that  it  sang.  In  the  States  at  this 
wartime,  a  new  electric  range  was  as 
unobtainable  as  the  moon.  Here  in 
Mexico  it  was  the  possession  of  the 
rich.  When  I  stopped  to  examine 
the  flower-splayed  card  tied  to  the 
oven  handle,  I  saw  "Congratula- 
tions" written  in  the  firm  hand  of 
Miguel  Munoz! 
"Look!"  Amporo  threw  open  a 
closet  door  to  show  me  an  electric 
water  heater,  dazzling  in  its  new- 
ness.   "Also  the  gift  of  the  Senor." 
Surprise  was  hardly  the  word  for 
my  reactions.  I  had  not  thought 
him  capable  of  sportsmanship  in  the 
grand  manner.  After  this  I  could 
think  pleasant  thoughts  of  the 
Senor. 
"But  the  wiring?  The  house 
needed  to  be  wired  for  the  stove?" 
"It  was  another  of  the  Mormones, 
a  man  who  is  an  electrician  who 
came  with  his  helper  and  put  all 
new  wires  in  the  house.  Now,"  Am- 
poro was  brisk,  "there  is  but  time 
to  see  the  bathroom  and  the  bed- 
room of  Lolita." 
The  bathroom  I  looked  at  only 
long  enough  to  see  that  some  mod- 
ern fixtures  with  a  banker's  card  had 
been  installed,  and  the  broken  tile 
repaired.  Lolita's  room  was  a  simple 
one,  far  from  the  street  wall,  and 
had  a  dressing  table  concocted  by 
Jorge,  the  carpenter,  and  a  long 
chest  that  must  have  been  in  the 
old  house.  I  took  time  to  sit  on 
the  bed.  The  mattress  was  new, 
one  made  of  innersprings. 
"El  doctor  himself  gave  the  bed 
to  Lolita,"  Amporo  explained,  her 
fingers  tracing  the  design  in  the  blue 
and  white  spread. 
So  Lolita  had  her  soft  bed. 
"pROM  the  kitchen  we  hurried  to 
the  gallery  to  see  the  wedding 
feast.  The  late  afternoon  sun  shone 
through  the  poplars  against  the  con- 
vent wall  and  threw  a  light  around 
the  bell  in  the  tower.  Golden  shafts 
slanted  across  the  garden,  freshly 
trimmed  and  weeded,  and  rested 
upon  the  deep  green  of  the  pome- 
granates. The  rays  filtered  through 
the  Poinsettia  trees  and  over  the 
Burmese  honeysuckle  that  separated 
Ramon's  rows  of  beans  from  the 
garden.  On  the  lawn,  still  shaggy 
from  neglect,  were  the  lovely  red 
day  lilies,  open  these  last  days  of 
the  rain. 
Last  of  all,  the  westering  rays 
lighted  the  wedding  feast  that  lay 
like  a  vast  mural  against  the  green 
background  of  the  garden.  There 
were  stacks  of  tortillas,  warm  in 
blue  and  green  napkins;  terra  cotta 
trays  piled  with  dark  green  chili 
xellanos;  braziers  holding  steaming 
pots  of  fri/oJes,  fragrant  with  hot 
sauce  and  oregano;  a  copper  caul-

116 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1956 
dron  filled  with  camitas;  dishes  of 
chicken  mole  brimming  with  dark 
sauce;  deep  pans  of  cabrito  el  homo, 
and  bright  dishes  of  sharp-tasting 
guacamole;  colorful  baskets  spilling 
with  the  fruits  of  Mexico  —  man- 
goes, golden  ripe,  papaya  ready  for 
their  baths  of  lime  juice,  sticks  of 
freshly  cut  pineapple,  slices  of  the 
pink  mammea,  and  rosy  strawber- 
ries, small  and  fragrant. 
In  the  very  center  was  the  wed- 
ding cake  on  a  bank  of  flowers,  and 
scattered  about  were  the  lacy  bask- 
ets of  sweet  rolls  and  the  glazed 
pastilles.  In  the  background  were 
the  gayly  designed  pitchers,  full  to 
the  brim  with  limonade,  and  the 
exotic  drink  of  mango  juice.  So 
colorful  was  the  feast  that  it  seemed 
a  desecration  to  touch  it. 
Against  the  flaming  bougain- 
villaea and  blue  plumbago  that 
shaded  the  south  gallery,  the  wed- 
ding guests  waited  in  the  shimmer- 
ing light,  ready  for  the  feast  that 
would  begin  as  soon  as  El  Presi- 
dente  pronounced  the  words  —  and 
the  bride  kissed  within  an  inch  of 
her  life.  I  saw  among  the  expectant 
group  the  bright  blouses  and  shirts 
of  the  country  people,  splashes  of 
accent  for  the  dark  garb  of  the  city 
guests.  To  one  side,  half  lost  in 
the  green  shade,  were  a  group  of 
young  persons  dressed  in  green  and 
white  with  sequin  trimmings.  They 
carried  silver-trimmed  sombreros 
and  crimson  serapes  for  the  grace- 
ful jarabe  tapatio  to  come  later  in 
the  evening. 
In  the  far  background  against  the 
plum  trees  were  the  musicians, 
shepherded  by  the  proud  Roberto, 
their  instruments  hushed  but  them- 
selves  poised    for    the    signal   that 
would  start  the  festivity.  All  of  a 
sudden,  a  wave  of  something  that 
was  more  than  exhilaration  pos- 
sessed me.  It  was  a  disembodied 
elation  that  seemed  to  lift  and  hold 
me  above  the  garden  with  its  riot 
of  color  and  emotion.  This,  my 
heart  said,  is  home.  Tonight  you 
will  be  happy  with  your  people. 
My  husband's  beckoning  eye, 
Amporo's  quick  tug,  made  me  rea- 
lize that  the  ceremony  waited  for 
my  presence  beside  Lolita.  My  feet 
quickened  on  the  damp  grass,  and 
I  saw  El  Presidente,  benevolent  and 
towering  in  his  black  broadcloth 
and  snowy  linen,  urging  me  for- 
ward. Waiting  outside  in  a  bower 
of  autumn  flowers  stood  Jim  and 
Graciela.  Jim  was  smiling  and  con- 
fident in  his  white  jacket,  but  it 
was  Graciela,  petite  and  radiant, 
who  drew  all  eyes. 
Jim's  almost  imperceptible  wink 
brought  my  gaze  to  the  bridal  dress. 
It  was  a  simple  one,  white,  and 
fashioned  after  the  native  style,  with 
a  long  swirling  skirt  and  full  blouse, 
embroidered  in  bright  bands  of 
cross-stitch.  On  the  girl's  slen- 
der feet  were  thonged  sandals,  and 
her  blue-black  hair  was  brushed  in- 
to a  shining  pompadour  in  which 
she  wore  a  single  red  Camellia. 
Jim's  eyes  took  me  from  the  bride 
to  her  mother.  Lolita  stood  to  one 
side,  her  graying  hair  coiled  at  her 
neck,  her  black  eyes  wet  with  happy 
tears.  Like  Graciela's,  her  dress  ma- 
terial had  been  purchased  by  Jim 
in  the  market  and  made  with  the 
loving  hands  of  the  Church  women. 
It  was  deep  blue,  with  a  full  skirt 
and  embroidered  in  red  and  green 
flowers.  On  her  arm  she  carried  a 
long  white  scarf  with  a  band  of  in-

HERMANAS 
117 
tricately  woven  flowers.  Later,  when 
the  evening  wind  blew  cold  from 
the  snow-topped  mountains,  she 
would  place  it  on  her  child's  shoul- 
ders. 
Quickly  I  advanced  towards  Lo- 
lita,  my  hand  outstretched.  Would 
she  greet  me  with  a  courteous  bend 
of  her  head  and  a  respectful  "Se- 
nora,"    or    would    her    eyes    look 
straight  into  mine?  So  near  was  I 
that  the  hem  of  my  tailored  suit 
touched  the  crisp  folds  of  her  blue 
gown;  yet  I  did  not  know  the  an- 
swer. But,  as  our  hands  touched, 
her  fingers  were  firm  in  mine,  and 
she  raised  her  eyes.  With  a  warm 
smile,  her  hands  pressed  tightly  over 
mine,  and  she  said,  "Bien  venida, 
muy  Hermana." 
one  t«wct\.» 
lllirnature  Lrlants 
Elizabeth.  Williamson 
"V/flNIATURE  plants  are  not  a  new  idea.  The  Japanese  and  the  Chinese  thought  of 
-*■  *  them  centuries  ago.  However,  the  charm  of  these  tiny  plants  and  containers  con- 
tinues to  please  us,  and  their  uses  are  many.  They  always  delight  anyone  who  creates 
them  or  anyone  who  receives  them  as  a  gift.  Keep  on  hand  very  small  containers  and 
the  smallest  of  flower  pots,  and  when  you  are  transplanting  or  making  slips,  put  the 
smallest  ones  in  the  containers.  Rock  plants  and  succulents  seem  to  adapt  themselves 
best  to  miniature  planting.  Enliven  the  pots  with  tiny  colorful  figurines  which  you 
may  pick  up  from  time  to  time.  These  miniature  plants  make  charming  gifts  and  will 
be  joyfully  received.