[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Table | Author: Allen]
TABLE DECORATIONS FOR ANNIVERSARY DAY 107 Hal Rumel TABLE SETTING FOR A RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY thimble, thread, and needle, and a tiny tea towel, represents the Work Meeting. Social Science holds a miniature scroll of the Constitution of the United States. A small duplicate of the Magazine represents that phase, while the last doll carries a Visiting Teacher blank. There is one more thing that is outstanding in the Relief Society program. It is the music. The harmony and spirit with which the songs are sung are really thrilling and inspirational. The Singing Mothers in nearly every ward have achieved great success and honor. To represent this, musical notes of gilded paper were placed at strategic places throughout the arrangement. Using the suggestions offered here, several different arrangements might be made, for example: 1. A float, made of flowers or some other material carrying these different phases, could very beautifully be arranged. 2. Perhaps a May Pole, representing the Relief Society, might be made with rbbons reaching out to each doll. 3. A garden scene wherein the dolls might be the center of a beautiful flower plot. The flowers in each case would match the color of the dress. 4. A low, long arrangement with the six representing candles formed in a semicircle at one end of the flowers. With a bit of imagination and a clever use of flowers and symbols, our Relief Society can reign supreme on each anniversary. SALADS FOR HEALTH AND BEAUTY 109 Fruit FrencH DRESSING Y% cup orange juice ' cup salad or olive oil % cup pineapple juice % teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons lemon juice 1 teaspoon sugar Combine all ingredients. Beat or shake until well blended. PINEAPPLE DRESSING "4 cup sugar 1% cups pineapple juice, or combination 2 tablespoons cornstarch of orange and pineapple dash celery salt 4 egg yolks, slightly beaten % teaspoon salt "% cup lemon juice Mix dry ingredients in the top of a double boiler. Stir in the pineapple juice. Cook over boiling water, stirring constantly until mixture thickens. Cover and cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir a little of the hot mixture into slightly beaten egg yolks. Add to remaining hot mixture. Cook over hot water, stirring constantly for 3 minutes. Stir in lemon juice. Chill. When the dressing is cool, fold in 1 cup of heavy cream, whipped. —~<>+ Pra rte Vin fer Grace Barker Wilson All night long, under frozen sky With never a hint of stars or moon, The prairie lay like a dragon fly Wrapped in an eiderdown cocoon. No wind ruffled the icy air Nor stirred a flake of the falling snow; Not even a track of wild thing there To mar the quietness below. With ashen face the morning came, But no sun pierced the overcast, While winter's undisputed claim Held all the prairie frozen fast.