[Vol43 | February 1956 | Sequence: 17 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Erekson]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From Australia Irene T. Erekson]
inspiring  features  I  have  ever  read.  I  am 
reminded  that  time  for  New  Year's  reso- 
lutions is  drawing  near,  and  among  those 
which  I  shall  make  I  shall  incorporate  the 
philosophy  contained  in  Mrs*.  Atkinson's 
article.  And  just  to  make  certain  that  I 
remember  to  wear  a  pretty  face  myself, 
I  shall  keep  a  copy  of  the  October  Maga- 
zine handy  so  that  I  can  refer  to  it  often. 
— Edna  Day 
Idaho  Falls,  Idaho 
I  particularly  enjoyed  the  story  "The 
Scarlet  Cloak  of  Love,"  by  Lane  Stanaway 
Christian  in  the  December  Magazine,  and 
also  the  lovely  poem  "Christmas  Night," 
by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard.  The  poem  is 
an  exquisite  piece  with  a  deeper  meaning 
implied!  I  was  proud  to  be  in  the  same 
issue  with  that  fine  work! 
— Maude  Rubin 
Santa  Ana,  California 
I  was  proud  of  the  story  "The  Scarlet 
Cloak  of  Love,"  by  Lane  Stanaway  Christ- 
ian in  the  December  issue  of  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  and  the  poem  "The 
Greater  Part,"  by  Delia  Adams  Leitner, 
my  Idaho  friends.  I  also  enjoyed  the 
article  "Mother  Had  a  Way,"  by  Leone 
E.  McCune.  I  met  her  at  a  writer's  con- 
vention in  Logan  some  time  ago.  By 
way  of  commendation  for  the  literature 
lessons,  I  might  say  that  while  attending 
a  convention  in  Boise  last  fall,  I  was  seat- 
ed between  two  college  professors,  teach- 
ers of  English  literature.  During  the  din- 
ner their  conversation  turned  to  the  great 
writers  of  the  ages.  I  was  surely  appre- 
ciative of  the  fine  course  of  study  which 
has  been  given  us  in  the  literature  les- 
sons, for  I  was  able  to  follow  them  and 
join  in  the  conversation. 
■ — Frances  C.  Yost 
Bancroft,  Idaho 
I  like  the  serial  "Hermanas"  currently 
running  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
very  well.  It  has  more  to  it  than  some 
of  the  other  serials  have  had,  and  its  ef- 
fectiveness is  enhanced  by  the  foreign  set- 
ting. It  is  beautifully  written,  and  the 
Church  element  is  brought  in  naturally — 
not  thrown  in. 
— Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson 
Boise,  Idaho 
I  especially  enjoyed  and  appreciated  the 
short  articles  in  the  August  issue.  How 
simply  stated,  yet  how  powerful  are  the 
sermons  without  preaching  in  "Light 
Bulbs,"  by  Elsie  Scott;  "An  Invisible 
Means  of  Support,"  by  Caroline  E.  Min- 
er; "Watchers,"  by  Kate  Richards  (I 
needed  this);  "Trouble,"  by  Lucille  R. 
Taylor;  "A  Song  of  the  Heart"  (lovely, 
lovely),  by  Elsie  Sim  Hansen;  and  "Look 
to  the  Mountains,"  by  Blanche  Johnson. 
How  beautifully  and  effectively  stated  are 
the  timeless  values  in  "Family  Patterns" 
(editorial  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp).  My 
heart  sang  a  prayer  of  gratitude  as  I  read 
it.  Since  that  first  reading  I  have  reread 
it  many  times  and  have  caught  a  glimpse 
of  the  glorious  possibilities  that  are  mine 
as  a  mother  and  grandmother  —  and  I 
hope  a  great-grandmother.  I  am  glad  for 
the  help  this  article  gave  me  in  teaching 
these  truths  to  my  group  in  our  home. 
I  am  deeply  appreciative  for  all  the  help 
we  receive  in  our  effort  to  get  our  own 
to  see  the  importance  of  courtship,  its 
sacredness  and  meaning  in  the  joyous 
married  life  anticipated.  Surely  our  lead- 
ers are  inspired  in  the  messages  they  give 
us  through  our  Magazine  from  time  to 
time. 
■ — Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
We  certainly  appreciate  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  and  receive  much  joy  and 
instruction  from  reading  through  each 
publication. — Asael  T.  Sorensen 
President 
Brazilian  Mission 
Sao  Paulo,  Brazil 
Page  74