[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic ENDURING SATISFACTIONS OF LIFE "Man is that he might have joy." ?2
Nephi 2:25. What is joy? Joy is the fruits of righteous living. Shakespeare says: "The purest treasure mortal times afford is spotless reputation." How is that treasure won? It comes by living today and every day like a man of honor. "It is slowly built upon purity, integrity and courage." Enduring satisfactions do not come from wealth, power and fame. These may all vanish as dew before the sun. Wealth and social position count for nothing, unless united with purity of thought and life, honesty of purpose, and high ideals. Family love?the mutual love of husband and wife, of parents and children, of brothers and sisters, is not only the chief source of happiness, but the chief spring of action, and the safeguard from evil Theodore Roosevelt said: "Every rightly constituted woman or man must feel that there is no such ample reward to be found anywhere in life as the reward of children, the reward of a happy family life. We cannot get along at all as a nation if we have not the right kind of home life. Such a life is not only the supreme duty. But also the supreme reward of duty." The realization of the natural and legitimate enjoyments in family life depends on the possession of physical and moral health. Health is one 

  indispensable foundation for the enduring satisfactions of life. The reading and study of good books will bring happiness and joy in our lives. Charles W. Elliot says: "Ten minutes a day devoted affectionately to good books, such as the Bible or Shakespeare, will in thirty years make all the difference between a cultivated man and an uncultivated man; between a man mentally rich and a man mentally poor. Books are the quietest and most constant of friends; they are the most accessible and wisest of counsellors, and the most patient of teachers." The greatest happiness and satisfaction comes through service. Love of our fellowmen is a test of our love of God, and a willingness to be of real service to our fellowmen is a test of that love. Jesus said: "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Matthew 25:40.