[Vol21 | January 1934 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Cannon]
THE BIBLE AND ITS LITERATURE
Great book of books! Your every page is fraught With words of such inspired thought That men of every tongue and clime Have learned throughout the years of time Life's greatest lessons. The wisdom of the prophets old, Their counsels, warnings manifold, In rare and classic verse are told From Genesis to Revelations; History, Drama, Poetry and Art, All are a part Of this most priceless treasure, And with the prophets, and the kings Woman too, her portion brings Of travail and of pleasure: (Enter Miriam, with lyre or ancient musical instrument.) Tableau Reader: There's Miriam, the singer in the wilderness: 'And Miriam took a timbral in her hand, and said, 'Sing ye to the Lord; for He hath triumphed gloriously!" Esther, queen and prophetess: (Enter Esther with scepter.) "And Esther obtained grace and favor in his sight, and the king loved Esther, so that he sat the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen." (Enter wheat.) Ruth, carrying sheeves of Ruth, the gleaner in the wheat With these words so softly sweet: "Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following aiter thee; For whither thou goest I will go; And where thou lodgest [ will lodge; Thy people shall be my people, And thy God my God." (Enter Samarian, with picturesque water jar on shoulder.), Again in most dramatic word The story of the woman fair Who by the well in thoughtful mood Gave drink unto the Lord. This woman of Samaria In amazement heard her Lord declare "Tf thou knewest the gift of God, And who it is that saith to thee Give me to drink Thou would'st have asked of him, And he would have given thee living water. Who drinketh of this water Shall thirst again But whosoever drinketh of this water, I shall give him Shall be in him a well of water Springing up into Everlasting life." (Each in turn takes place at right of Literature.) Picture Five. ROMANCE In olden times, so we are told By sages and by poets too All maids were fair While knights were bold And came in armour bright to woo Germanic, Spanish, Celtic, French Each land its thrilling tale has wrought Of chivalry and of gay romance And pictures to the mind are brought Of lovers true and brave Like Siegfried and like Launcelot Who castles stormed with sword And lance A maiden fair to save. (Enter Brunhilde.) Reader: Brunhilde: "T stand in sight Of Siegfried's star For me he was, And for me he will ever be." Wagner. (Enter Guinevere.) Guinevere: "She seemed a part of joyous spring; A gown of grass green silk she wore, RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT 37
Buckled with golden clasps before, A light green tuft of plumes she bore Closed in a golden ring." Tennyson. (With graceful gesture each in turn slowly enters and takes place on left of picture. ) Picture Six. THE NOVEL—A SOCIAL RECORD The novel is a vital thing Its pages do express In interesting phrases ~ The different periods of time Their habits, speech and dress, And all life's social phases. Scott, Thackery, Dickens, Eliot, Conrad, Austen, Hawthorn, James, Disraeli, Lytton, And others might we name Of equal worth and fame, who chose In most delightful prose Their thoughts and fancies to disclose. (Enter Jane Austen, with parasol.) Some tales are true, And some are not; And some are purely fancy wrought; Though light or dark the pattern be It's leisure's simplest luxury. Tableau Reader: Jane Austen: The beautiful Jane Austen, England's first woman novelist. Picture Seven. SHAKESPEARE In the rich Elizabethan time By land and sea men ventured forth Great wealth to find; But one there was content to bide Along the placid Avon's side For in his mind, Such wealth of treasure lay That all the world unto this day Proclaim him master of his kind. Lovely women and gifted men Have walked the mimic stage Have played the parts, your facile pen Portrayed on written page Hamlet, Richard, Romeo, Othello, Lear and Prospero, Juliet, Katharine, Jessica, Rosalind, Miranda, Portia, In picture pass before our eyes As kings, and princes, lovers, fools Witches, fairies, jesters, ghouls In art that never dies. So real, so true personified By magic words are glorified. Great Shakespeare, immortal bard A laurel wreath we bring And in the realm of literature We crown thee king. (Enter Miranda.) Reader: Miranda, heroine of "The Tempest." "O' I have suffer'd With those that I saw suffer!' (Enter Desdemona.) Desdemona: "She loved him for the dangers he had passed: And he loved her that she did pity them." (Enter Juliet.) Juliet: "Did my heart love till now? Forswear it sight! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night." 

  RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT 39 (These 3 group at right of Bible characters completing the semi circle.) Reader: What magic has God wrought To thus preserve for all mankind The world's best thought. Spoken, painted, sculptured, written It matters not, Throughout the centuries of time Literature is life's gift sublime. (Group turn toward Literature in graceful pose. Curtain.) DECALOGUE 'Let life attain the starry towers Lured to the bright divine ascent Be yours the things you would; be ours The things that are more excellent." Paraphrased from Watson. (Reader now steps to center, places book, poses as statue with wreath held high. Curtain.)
