[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 158 | PDF Page 163]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 158 (PDF page 163) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

elect to follow the design of the Creator. The emphasis of divine law is on rehabilitation of the wayward through wisdom, guidance, mercy, and love.

The courts or councils of justice in the Church are designed to bring people to repentance. They are to bring to light the truth in the case, not to condemn and destroy, but to encourage re-orientation of life in harmony with the eternal values of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Even when it is necessary for the Church court to pronounce the severe action of excommunication, forgiveness must always be in the hearts of the members of the Church. Jesus said he would forgive whom he would, but we as individuals must forgive all.

The authorized judge in a Church court is not required to forgive the sins of individuals, but may be in a position where he must exact severe penalties. Certainly every judge, however, should have the spirit of forgiveness in his heart.

It must be remembered that councils of justice are helpful, even essential, to personal development of offenders in that they tend to stimulate the art of discipline and self-control. The courts of the Church support and sustain the high ideals and values in our way of life.

It should be remembered that love is the real motivation of the Priesthood and should be basic to all human association. Certainly the dispensing of justice in the Church courts should be as full of mercy as is assured by the Master, himself.

Church Government Was Initiated for Man's Advancement

Jesus dedicated his life to the service of his fellow men. This is the pattern he set for each person who enjoys membership in his Church and kingdom. Every person in the Church is a potential leader and if each one follows the program of the Church, he can prepare himself to perform any duty assigned him in the Church. One needs humility, sincerity, faith, and a willingness to work hard, to be successful as an officer or teacher.

The opportunities and responsibilities involved in a calling in Church government are about equal in their bearing upon the person involved. The opportunities result in growth and development of the individual. The responsibilities require service to others, assisting them in their pursuit of happiness, understanding, and perfection. This unselfish dedication to service increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the person and builds a confidence and competency in his leadership. The compensation is great in net returns to the individual accepting a calling. The true value of service is derived from the consecration of time and talent to the work of the Lord which, in simple terms, is the uplifting of mankind.

References

Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 18; 20; 27; 42; 43; 58; 102; 107; 114; 115; 121; 124; and 132.

WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 9; 10; 11; 12; 13; 14; 15; 16; 17; and 18.

SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: Essentials in Church History, Chapter 9.

158
