[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 180 | PDF Page 189]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 180 (PDF page 189) ---
MARCH 1964

ried away and pedalled down the street.

Martha felt a big lump in her throat and a stinging in her eyes. She wanted so much to see that last game. But she knew that it wasn't what Johnny wanted most. He wanted his parents to witness this game. She started to leave the room. She heard Mark speaking to Helen.

"What kind of parents has Johnny got? Helen, we've got a boy playing on that team tonight. It's their last game. Did you hear Johnny say this is the last one, and we haven't been to one?"

"Yes, I know. We have surely let our boy down, Mark." Helen was weeping.

"Well, hurry up everybody. We are all going to be at that game," Mark spoke hurriedly.

"But, Mark, didn't you say you told Brad you would meet him for golf?"

Mark was already picking up the phone. "I'm sorry but I can't make it for golf tonight, Brad. No — No — I've got a kid playing ball tonight on the league. You see he's already made league play, all on his own."

"I'll be glad to stay with the baby," Martha offered.

"Oh, no, you won't, Grandma. Johnny would feel let down if you were not there to help us cheer for his team," Mark told her.

"I'll call my regular baby sitter, Mother. You are coming along," Helen said.

"Yes, and cheer loud everybody," Mark called. "Just to see Johnny's face when he sees us will be worth a million dollars."

MYRTLE M. Dean, Provo, Utah, who is already well known to readers of the Magazine, tells us that she loves to write. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers. Her first story was published in The Relief Society Magazine in 1925. "Then, for many years, I was occupied with my young family and with Church duties, and so did very little writing. In 1948 I was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, and in 1949 I placed second, and second in 1959. I enjoy writing and divide my spare moments with genealogical research and writing family histories and short story writing. My husband is Charles E. Dean, and we have five children. Our families are our chief interest."

Spring

Rowena Jensen Bills

The brilliance of the sun came forth
And focused on the walk,
Snow became silvery lakes;
And I heard sparrow-talk.
The trees adorned themselves in buds,
Insects emerged to sing;
March winds mellowed to a breeze,
Heralding the spring.

180
