[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 822 | PDF Page 861]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 822 (PDF page 861) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

to the article, "Nursing and Nurse Training in Relief Society," by Irene B. Woodford, Relief Society Magazine, September 1964.

CHURCH WELFARE PARTICIPATION

The sisters continue devoted support of the Church Welfare Program as is evidenced by the following figures:

Family Visits Made      Increase
    Under Direction
    of Bishop    100,969  3,454+
Hours Contributed
    by All Females
    on Welfare
    Projects      902,221  7,264+

It is our understanding that some changes are anticipated in designations of members of Relief Society presidencies and also in meetings and procedures as they relate to Relief Society's cooperation with the Church Welfare Program. Such changes will be announced at the proper time by the Church Welfare Committee. We assure the women that the full support of Relief Society will be forthcoming as changes are made.

INTER-STAKE FUNCTIONS

Sisters, we are noting a growing tendency for two or more stakes to join together for a special function, such as a Homemaking Institute, a Magazine Promotion Workshop, or a Class Leaders' Institute. Specialists usually appear on the program and tremendous effort is put forth to assure the success of the undertak-

ing. Often considerable costs are involved.

The General Board does not endorse such multiple stake activities. Most of the good derived from such activities could be accomplished within the individual stakes and, in most instances, within the framework of the approved and regularly scheduled programs and meetings. It is a convenience to the sisters to have functions within their own wards or stakes and more sisters receive development. Also this is the orderly procedure of the Church. Where deviations from this regulation seem desirable, the matter should be referred to the General Board for approval.

EXERCISE OF FRANCHISE

One other matter seems appropriate to call to your attention. This is a national election year. Relief Society women of the past worked long and hard to win the right to vote and to hold public office. We urge you to exercise your right of franchise. Be informed on the issues, learn all you can as individuals from reliable sources about the candidates, and vote according to what you believe to be in the best interests of good government. The woman's vote today is an important one — it should be an informed one.

CONCLUSION

May the choice blessings of the Lord continue with you during the forthcoming season as you give humble and inspired leadership to the Relief Societies of your respective stakes and mission districts.

822
