[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 588 | PDF Page 615]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 588 (PDF page 615) ---
The Someday Vacation

Alice Gubler Sabin

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with two children embracing]

ELLIE, you aren't eating your supper." Mother looked at me with concern. "I looked—

"Really mother, I just can't seem to swallow tonight."

Nancy eyed the food before her. "Me, too. How come your stomach gets all tied up in knots when you're excited?"

"That's 'cause you're thinking too much, like me." Tom reached for his fourth muffin. "When I shut my eyes, I can just see the fish splashing and the sun shining on the water. I almost can't eat either, just thinking about it."

"Now look here." Daddy put down his fork. "We can't take a pack of starved coyotes along with us. You young ones better relax and eat your supper. You'll need energy to help finish packing. We're going to get an early start in the morning."

"Don't urge them to eat," Grandma said. "There were times when I was a child that I'd get too excited to eat. Just the thoughts of going places did it to me."

We looked gratefully at Grandma. She always understood.

We had plenty of energy to help finish loading. Daddy didn't need to worry. After all, ever since I could remember, we had been going to go to Yellowstone someday. It was going to be someday when Daddy had enough vacation time coming to make the trip worthwhile; and someday when there weren't too many bills to pay, and someday when Daddy and Mother didn't have special meetings to interfere, and a hundred and one other reasons. Well, believe it or not, that someday had actually arrived. It was no longer a dream but a reality.

Daddy had rented the biggest camper he could get. It had two bedrooms, if you can call them rooms, one for Grandma, and one for Daddy and Mother. It had a gas refrigerator and stove and running water and — well just about all of the comforts of home. Daddy said he just loved to rough it. Nancy and Tom and I had sleeping bags. We wanted to sleep under the stars. Daddy put in a tent, "just in case."

I washed the supper dishes and Grandma wiped. "You're excited, too, aren't you, Grandma?" I grinned. "You only nibbled instead of eating."

She winked at me. "Tom and

588
