[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 626 | PDF Page 653]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 626 (PDF page 653) ---
WORK MEETING    Molding a Happy Life

Winifred C. Jardine

Discussion 2: Health and Its Influence on Happiness

(A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting)

For Second Meeting, November 1964

Objective: To examine common-sense ways of maintaining 
good within the family.

HEALTH and happiness are often mentioned in the same breath. And well they might be, for while it is possible to have happiness without good health, more often than not happiness seems to hinge upon the observance of good health habits — practices within daily living that enhance feelings of buoyant good health, abounding energy, and zestful living.

President Belle S. Spafford in remarks at the presidents session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1963, counseled the mothers of the Church to take good care of themselves physically in order that they may remain well and strong to care for their families. She appealed to the sisters to get sufficient sleep and rest, to eat properly, and to refrain from pushing themselves beyond their physical endurance.

To promote good health within the family and the general feeling of well-being that goes with it, we need to observe a few rules with persistence and determination. Family members who fail to do so may suffer from malnutrition, exhaustion, and fatigue, and may be so irritable, cross, and unreasonable as to offer serious threats to family happiness.

Four rules of health that go a long way towards keeping a family in a state of general good health and, consequently, in a state of happiness are as follows:

1. Proper Food and Correct Eating Habits

To provide the wide variety of proper foods needed for the nourishment of the family, menus should be planned regularly around the Basic Four Foods. The following should be included in each day's menu:

A. DAIRY FOODS — milk, cheese, ice cream, and other milk-made foods can supply part of the milk.

626
