[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 296 | PDF Page 309]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 296 (PDF page 309) ---
How
about
a
"GET IT DONE DAY"?

Vera Stocker

Of course I try to plan my homemaking tasks to accomplish them with the greatest possible efficiency and dispatch. If I didn't, I would be swamped by the countless demands on the time and strength of a "do-it-yourself" homemaker and mother of four school-age children. But even with a good workable schedule, I have found that many small tasks that need to be done and that I want to do, are put off, forgotten, or just plain neglected — things of seemingly little importance, but still have their place in a smooth-running household and a well-ordered family life. That is how Get It Done Day came to be an institution in our home.

Yes, just that — a regular day set aside in which emphasis is put on doing many small, odd jobs, those "must-do-one-of-these-days" kind. Ours is the first weekday of each month, or as soon after as may be convenient.

On that day I do the minimum of regular housework, hurrying through the breakfast dishes, beds, and dusting in double-quick time, and preparing easy-to-get meals. Then to the game, for I am not averse to a little playful competition between me and time. It adds interest to see just how many needed tasks I can accomplish before the day is done. There is a pleasant variety, too. This is the time for small jobs, but many — remember?

Likely I will have the oil can out. I have a habit of forgetting to oil certain small appliances. The kitchen screwdriver may be in use, too, and my spot cleaners for upholstery and wallpaper. A pleasant breeze may invite me to air all our blankets and pillows. It is a good time to wipe off all the light globes in the house — a job that should be routine and isn't with me. I will thin out our pile of magazines, tying up those back numbers, then box up some discarded clothing of the children, arranging at once for delivery of both to places where they will be welcomed.

I look at the bright new page on the calendar, and note that it is time for the check on Jamie's teeth, and remind myself to remind my husband to make the appointment for his annual physical examination. Oh, yes, some birthdays are in the offing. I will make certain decisions about these today instead of waiting until the eleventh hour, and I will take a look at my gift wrappings and greeting card supply. (A pencil and pad are handy, of course.) I will have other reminders, too — for instance, a check of the bathroom medicine show some nearly empty bottles and tubes, and other low supplies. If my household accounts are not up-to-date, now is the time, and I will also sort and file properly the recipes I have clipped.

I hate to darn socks, but with my

296
