[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 743 | PDF Page 778]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 743 (PDF page 778) ---
THE GOOD FOUNTAIN

"Don is going to go for help, Mrs. Harding." The woman looked up at her, not seeming to understand. "I'll stay here with you until he brings someone back." Everything will be fine." As she heard herself say the words, she felt a quiver of uncertainty. Everything will be fine, you hope.

The afternoon sun was rapidly sliding behind the tops of the mountains, the breeze that so gently brought relief from the heat of the road now chilled the waiting women. Shadows reached at them with dark hands. What if Don didn't return before it grew dark? Rita was not at all sure she could keep calm. Mrs. Harding had not spoken since Don left, and she had given up trying to converse with her.

She jumped at a strange sound. She had been sitting on a rock not far from Mrs. Harding, and now she felt the older woman clawing at her arm.

"It's all right, Mrs. Harding. Everything's fine." But it was not fine. Something in Mrs. Harding's face told her that. It was Mr. Harding. Rita went over to him. He was moaning. She knelt beside him and touched his face and hands. They were cold, and he was trembling and breathing rapidly.

I've got to get him warm, she thought. She hadn't even the sweater she had brought along for cool nights at the lake. The Hardings were both in short sleeves. There was nothing she could use for warmth, and the wind began to billow the trees with its stirring. A fire, she thought suddenly. If I could only build a fire. She carried no matches, and her pockets were empty. Quickly, she went through Mr. Harding's pockets. A pocket knife, some loose change, a handkerchief ... no matches. A swift questioning of Mrs. Harding brought forth a lipstick, a pocket comb, and a crumpled tissue.

Well, she thought, if the Indians could do it, there must be a way. She opened the pocket knife, pulling out one of the stiffly sprung blades inexpertly. She searched the ground in the rapidly failing light and found two dry sticks. She trimmed their bark with the knife, piling the shavings together on the ground, then she rubbed the two sticks together furiously, until her arms, unused to such activity, would go no more. She felt the sticks. They were barely warm.

Disgusted, she threw them down and sat in the dirt. A hard, frightening lump began in her chest, and she knew the tears were not far behind it.

Oh, dear Lord. Help me! If I don't find a way to get him warm, he may die, she thought desperately.

IN helpless anger at herself, Rita picked up a handful of the loose rocks and threw them, too, into the darkness. A shower of sparks as the stones struck a larger rock startled her out of her dismay. Sparks! Eagerly, she took up another handful and began striking them on a nearby rock. Each blow caused a tiny spark to fly into the night. She excitedly gathered her shavings together with Mrs. Harding's tissue, and holding them directly under the rock, she began to strike.

Tensely, she knelt at her work, and in spite of the coolness of the

743
