[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 597 | PDF Page 624]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 11%]

--- PAGE 597 (PDF page 624) ---
Pretty Pillows useful tool!

Shirley Thulin

Pillows, pillows, pillows! Some are pretty, some useful, some just for fun. Make these easy pillows and start right away to enjoy them.

HANDY TRAVEL PILLOW

The neatest trick in a long while is this pillow bag made of ribbons. Toss it on your bed as a pillow with pajamas inside, make it as a welcome gift, or as a traveling aid.

The pillow bag may be used as a laundry bag for nylons and lingerie, as well as a daytime hiding place for pajamas. It is convenient for traveling, holding clean clothing on the way and light laundry when returning.

Materials Needed: To make the pillow bag, you will need 3 yards of grosgrain ribbon 1 inch wide, and 6 yards of woven edge taffeta ribbon 3 inches wide.

Cut the 3-inch ribbon into four strips 1½ yards long. Cut the 1-inch ribbon into 6 strips 1½ yards long.

Procedure: Starting with the narrow ribbon, top stitch the strips together lengthwise at the edge, alternating widths. Now sew the outside edges together to form a tube. Gather one end tightly together, and attach a six-loop bow made from one of the remaining 1½ yard lengths of the 1-inch ribbon.

At the other end, fold the top narrow ribbon strip in half and stitch on the inside, making a hem to hold the remaining 1½ yards of grosgrain ribbon which is used as the drawstring (figure 1).

SICK-ROOM PILLOWS

Pillows can play an important part in the caring for a person who has to remain in bed for awhile. There are several different sick-room pillows.

[ILLUSTRATION: Shows a gathered circular pillow with decorative bow on top]

(fig. 1)

All of them should be made with removable covers, for easy cleaning.

Back-rest Pillows. There are two back rest pillows which are handy to put at the patient's back while she sits up. The first one is a pillow arm chair, and should be made of a sturdy fabric such as denim. You could also use a heavy plastic material.

Make back first. From a piece of material about 22 inches wide and 26 inches long, cut a rectangle, rounding the top two corners (figure 2). This is the front of the back rest. Now cut a similar rectangle, only make it 31 inches long (figure 3). This is the back of the back-rest. Cut 2 triangles about 26 inches long and about 12 inches wide at the base (figure 4). This forms the sides of the back-rest. The bottom of the back-rest is a piece 22 inches long by 12 inches wide (figure 5).

[DIAGRAMS: Shows 4 pattern pieces labeled as figures 2-5, with measurements:
- Fig. 2: Front of back rest, 22" wide x 26" tall with rounded top corners
- Fig. 3: Back of back rest, 22" wide x 31" tall
- Fig. 4: Side of back rest, triangular piece 26" long x 12" wide at base
- Fig. 5: Bottom of back rest, 22" wide x 12" tall rectangular piece]

597
