[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 210 | PDF Page 219]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 210 (PDF page 219) ---
MARCH 1964

PLAN TO PRODUCE SALEABLE ARTICLES

The success of a bazaar is very largely determined by the quality, the quantity, the usefulness, the desirability, the beauty, the unusualness, the workmanship, and the attractiveness of articles for sale.

A wise presidency has a record of the items found to be bestsellers in previous bazaars. The same articles, somewhat redesigned, usually sell well again.

Plan to prevent leftovers by a careful screening of samples of all proposed articles. Have the general committee assist in judging the worth of each before making more.

Find some items that cost nothing and bring a clear profit, such as house plants propagated by the sisters in a long-range plan. "White elephants," old jewelry, old hats, and such things are also profitable.

An "assembly line" technique is often a great time saver. Many articles can be produced in one work meeting with this procedure.

PLAN TO PLEASE YOUR PATRONS

There are many ways to make a bazaar a very pleasurable experience. One is, of course, the beauty and attractiveness of the displays. There are women in every ward with artistic ability, color sense, and originality who could create charming backgrounds and place articles effectively.

If you expect your patrons to buy their dinner, keep their comfort in mind. How much better it is to have tables set up and decorated in your theme style, even if food is procured from booths set up in spots around the hall, than to have people stand in long lines waiting to be handed a paper plate through the kitchen window. It is difficult for parents of young children to feed their families this way. Men usually dislike such procedures. Elderly people feel unsure in such a situation.

Use your best and most charming sales ladies! Ask them to demonstrate and point out the quality of items.

PLAN TO PRICE ARTICLES WISELY

A small pricing committee is often used for this important job. Pricing is difficult and takes time and wisdom. Two things to be considered are the amount of material in the article and the amount and quality of the work. The ability of the people in the area to pay is a prime consideration also. Articles underpriced are profit-losers; articles overpriced are deterrent to sales. There should be many articles in the low price range, from 25¢ to $2.00.

Price tags should be attached to every item. Don't depend on the memory of the sales lady. Cater to the browsing instinct of customers.

210
