[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 281 | PDF Page 294]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 281 (PDF page 294) ---
PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE

The mother's eyes left the baby face and looked up into his searchingly. Here was more than she had dared hope for. She clutched the pink bundle against her, pressing her cheek to the face of the sleeping infant. Tears slid down her cheeks, and in spite of herself, she sobbed. She felt the baby taken from her and firm hands put her to bed. A capsule was pressed into her hand. She cried steadily until the drugged pillow that softens all emotions put her to sleep.

That evening Clara looked down at the dark head pillowed on her arm. The satin cheeks were dimpling rhythmically as the baby nursed. Her small fingers closed around Clara's thumb. With a gentle hand she stirred the tight, dark curls. Placing her daughter against her shoulder, she patted the tiny back. Through the blanket she could feel the row of safety pins holding a binder securely around the small body. She smiled as she felt the soft brush of warm breath . . . that precious breath

of life . . . and her heart filled with gratitude for having her to hold one more day.

Suddenly she saw beyond the physical imperfection of her baby and knew what it was that must be learned. She held the baby from her and looked at her intently.

Her thoughts turned to her other children. She didn't love any one of them, more or less, according to his physical condition. The spirit within shaped them and made them who and what they were.

How could she have been so blind? First about little Janet and then her own baby. Now she could understand her mother's stubborn devotion to Janet's care. She, with greater wisdom, had seen beyond that tortured little body and loved the precious, innocent soul that was held captive within.

Gathering her daughter into her arms, carefully so as not to awaken her, Clara held her close to her heart and reached for the telephone.

___________

Desert in Springtime

Ethel Jacobson

Here are dusty creek beds,
Stones, and burning sand,
But spring comes tripping bravely
To this forbidding land.
Seeds lie quiet, waiting
The fleeting kiss of rain,
Then magically blossom
To carpet dune and plain.
Poppy, mariposa,
Verbena, lupine, broom —
No one knows spring truly
Till he sees the desert bloom!

281
