[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 157 | PDF Page 162]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 157 (PDF page 162) ---
porting units to the branches, wards, stakes, and missions. They provide the manpower that the officers of these organized units need, in order to carry out the program of the Church. The ecclesiastical line of authority governs and operates the program of the Church. The Priesthood line of authority is responsible for developing leadership abilities in each quorum member through the Priesthood objectives. All Church members are subject to call by the proper ecclesiastical authority to fill offices in the Church program of branch, ward, stake, or Church.

Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints means activity in a good cause. It calls for an applied testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel, "be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only . . ." (James 1:22).

As has been indicated, the quorum is the training ground for leadership in the Church. An important characteristic of leadership is how to be a good follower. Quorum membership implies a desire to prepare, to improve one's ability to do something for others and do it to the best of one's ability. Ward and branch membership is the place where this preparation is put into action.

The Gospel of Repentance

The gospel of Jesus Christ is a gospel of repentance. Christ gave mankind a perfect example and presented a way of life that would lead to perfection. "Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin" (James 4:17).

The call to repentance is extended to people everywhere, in all walks

LESSON DEPARTMENT

WORLD'S FAIR TOURS

21 days — June 21 to July 11:
World's Fair, Church historical places
(does not include pageant).

27 days — July 13 to August 8:
World's Fair, Church historical places.
Includes Hill Cumorah Pageant. Also,
Quebec and Montreal, Canada.

24 days — July 23 to August 15:
World's Fair, Church historical places,
including Hill Cumorah Pageant.

All tours include: Show at Jones'
Beach, Top of Rockettes, Broadway
Show and a special event ticket at
World's Fair, etc.

Esther James Tours
460 7th Avenue
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103
Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051

and stations of life. The great objective is to bring all mankind into the light, knowledge, and wisdom of the Creator. This is the only approach to perfection. Any individual who does not do as well as he knows how has need of repentance. People should never stop extending their knowledge of all that is good.

In the program of the Church, the idea of repentance is given constant attention. Human nature must be disciplined. The appetites of man must be controlled for his own good and advancement. True repentance means a permanent change in behavior.

The plan of life and salvation teaches all men the value and benefit of righteous living. The wayward are given special attention with the hope that they will recognize their mistakes, exercise their agency, and

157
