[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 574 | PDF Page 601]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 574 (PDF page 601) ---
AUGUST 1964

ed the following information on Relief Society:

The one hundred-voice Relief Society Singing Mothers Chorus singing at this Rainbow Awards Luncheon is from adjacent metropolitan areas of the New York and New Jersey Stake of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. They are a segment of the large Singing Mothers Chorus of Relief Society women that will present four concerts at the New York World's Fair June 24 and 25. Director of the chorus is Mrs. Ellen Neilson Barnes, graduate of the New England Conservatory of Music, and concert pianist, teacher and choral conductor of Washington, D.C.

There were eighteen women present when Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1842. Today there are 262,000 members of this organization in 6,353 chapters in fifty-two countries of the world. Almost half of these chapters have Singing Mothers Choruses, with a combined

total of 42,000 singers. For special programs and concerts, the singers in several chapters may be brought together as a combined Singing Mothers Chorus. Such is singing today.

Music, especially the song of the heart, is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and is regarded as indispensable to the cultural development, spiritual growth, and joy of Relief Society members.

Honorary Presidents of the American Mothers Committee are Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower and Mrs. Daniel A. Poling.

A statue of "The Mother" by Avard Fairbanks is presented each year to the Mother of the Year. This year the presentation was made by Dr. G. Roy Fugal, Chairman of the Advisory Committee and son of Mrs. Lavina C. Fugal, Utah Mother of the Year in 1955, who was chosen American Mother of that year.

The Evening and Morning of the First Day
Carolle Denton

I look into the dark of night,
My eyes wakeful for revealed light.
The midnight be my soul's release,
And sunrise tell me thou art peace.

The shadows now on every slope
Are lessening, and I gain hope
That thou wilt measure and wilt find
More light within my life, my mind.

Thy sun came near in time of youth,
And touched the days of life with truth.
The rays that reached my heart have told
Thy love . . . in syllables of gold.

I look to find the dawning light
Has faded all the shades of night.
Thou art the sunshine and the peace
That bring my soul a bright release.

574
