[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 582 | PDF Page 609]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 582 (PDF page 609) ---
AUGUST 1964

attend the Church General Conference. I actually weep when thinking of the testimony it gives those who have always lived in the mission field. I wondered, did I truly appreciate this while I lived in the Bee Hive State?

A long dream has now come true. Our stake Relief Society Singing Mothers are going to be able to attend Relief Society General Conference in 1964 as a group! We are going to sing Wednesday morning at the Officers Meeting. Plans have been made—temple excursions, a planned trip to the Brigham Young University, and General Conference. Yes, we must keep busy. We plan to have a stake opening social on the chartered train. Each ward and branch will present a part. It will be conducted on the order of a road show, going from car to car.

Some husbands and children are going, as they are new converts and will be sealed. What a wonderful wedding we can all attend.

If you wish to strengthen your stake board, go to conference. Partake, as we do, of this great and glorious program. Listen to our dear presidency. The sisters in your stake need this strength you receive, don't deprive them of it.

Yes, our board goes to Relief Society Conference. We couldn't afford to miss it. We need to be spiritually fed, we need to have our batteries recharged. What a thrill it is! But the biggest thrill is to return and kneel in prayer with your family and thank the Lord for the safe trip, and the support of the loved ones left at home.

Our Singing Mothers Pep Song

(Lively March Tune)

We're gonna — go, go, go to Salt Lake City.
Come on, Singing Mothers, let's go — —
We're gonna sing, sing, sing in Salt Lake City.
Relief Society Conference, you know — —
With great anticipation, with plans and preparation,
We'll have a wonderful time — —
We'll have to practice often, our husbands we will soften
To get out ev'ry nickel and dime — —
We're gonna go, go, go, to Salt Lake City,
Come on, Singing Mothers, lets go — —!

Some eyes see beauty where others do not think it can be found. For what are you looking? There is the great difference.
                                                — Zara Sabin

582
