[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 299 | PDF Page 312]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 299 (PDF page 312) ---
ROUND TABLE TOGETHERNESS

linen tablecloth and was laid with our best china and the good silver. Table decorations were usually homemade nut cups, holding popcorn glazed with maple sugar, toasted hickory nuts, and bits of candied orange peel. Sometimes we made funny little men from apples or from various vegetables, and placed them beside each plate.

The table groaned with the burden of tasty casseroles, spicy dressings, fowl, salads, homemade pickles and jellies, freshly baked fruit pies, and sugar cookies that Mother let us decorate to our own fancy, always remembering to tell us how exquisite they were.

Sometimes we sat around the table drinking mugs of hot eggnog and listened to stories told by Mother or Father, while the burning wood crackled in the fireplace and bayberry leaves parched on the hearth. The mingling fragrance of nutmeg and bayberry mist was enough to create a festive mood. Occasionally, we gathered about the

table for an hour or two of song and harmony.

Coloring eggs for Easter, or making frilly May baskets for May Day have given me many pleasant memories.

Saturday mornings always found the old table loaded with large golden loaves of Mother's homemade bread and rolls. On Sunday it held our Sunday School and Church papers, and we all sat around while Father read from the old family Bible.

* * * *

Coming back to the present really, I said to myself, this job can wait until tomorrow.

"All right, son," I offered. "How about that game we were going to play? When we finish the game let's make some cookies and frost them with funny faces."

I thought, perhaps tomorrow I will glaze some popcorn and candy some . . . Oh, dear! I do believe I have forgotten how to candy orange peel.

Halfway

Zara Sabin

I stand at the summit of Halfway Hill . . .
The road has not seemed long. . . .
With laughter and tears I have met the years
Or danced to a care-free song.

I pause to look back at the green-clad hill —
Its sunshine and utter peace throw
The brightness of hope on the upward slope
Of the way that I still must go.

Though rocks and thorns beset the path
That I sometimes wearily trod
They will be as a wraith while I walk by faith
Sustained by my trust in God.

299
