[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 648 | PDF Page 679]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 648 (PDF page 679) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

Salt Lake the responsibility and burden of delivering babies and caring for the sick rested primarily on the women of the Church, and Relief Society was at times sorely taxed to meet the urgent demands for nurses and midwives. One of the most loved and needed inhabitants of the far-flung and scattered Mormon settlements was the practical nurse and midwife who, at all hours of the day or night and in every kind of weather, responded willingly and cheerfully to a call for help. "Go get Sarah" would be the cry — or "Jane," "Ann," or "Maggie." Wherever she was and wherever she lived, at a moment's notice the dependable and devoted midwife and nurse would hasten to the one in need of her help. Often the only "doctor" for miles around, these faithful women, many of them Relief Society presidents or their counselors, traveled endless lonely miles on foot, or horseback, by buggy, wagon, or sleigh through the deep snows of winter and the rain and mud of early spring, to bring babies into the world, set broken bones, cool fevered brows, and perform other healing services. Nor were the travels of these women without personal danger to them, for there were rivers to ford, blizzards to face, and the ever-present danger of a horse, racing over the rough countryside, losing its footing in the darkness of night. One midwife was "lost in a blizzard overnight," and on another merciful errand was "nearly drowned while fording a stream in high water time."

Some of these early midwives and nurses had received training under eminent physicians and in the midwife schools and hospitals of their native lands. Others attended nurse classes in Salt Lake City, for the need of trained women nurses was recognized shortly after the saints arrived in the Salt Lake Valley. As early as 1849, Dr. Willard Richards, Counselor to President Brigham Young, commenced a nurse class for women that included among its members Zina D. H. Young and Emmeline B. Wells, both later General Presidents of Relief Society. Practical instruction was given in midwifery, care of children, children's diseases, etc. When Dr. Richards was absent, his wife Susannah Richards, a graduate nurse from her native England, taught the classes.

Following the death of Dr. Willard Richards, the following notice by Dr. William France, Surgeon, appeared in the April 18, 1855, Deseret News:

By Desire of the late President Willard Richards, and urged thereto by repeated solicitations from many of the Sisters; it is my intention on or about the 1st of May, to open classes for instruction on The Principles of Midwifery and the Management of Women and Children.
The Course of study will comprise two distinct Series of lectures. One designed especially for the benefit of the Matrons practicing Midwifery. The other (of more general application) addressed to "Mothers in Israel" concerning the management of Women during Pregnancy, Lying-in and Nursing; and also the treatment of Infants and young Children . . . .

Classes in obstetrics and nursing continued to be taught by private physicians, and women who could, took advantage of the opportunity thus provided them.

648
