[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 946 | PDF Page 989]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 946 (PDF page 989) ---
DECEMBER 1964

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. In what concrete ways can our families influence the community for good?

2. How can we help our children realize the importance of family continuity in the eternity?

3. How can we help our children understand that divine commandments are given as a guide and a blessing, and not as arbitrary restrictions?

4. Many people attend Church from their childhood on, yet they do not get married in the temple. Why is this?

LITERATURE    The Individual and Human Values
              As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 6 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes through Literature — Part II

(Text: Out of the Best Books, pp. 111-280)

For Third Meeting, March 1965

Objective: To demonstrate how literature dramatizes the evil of selfishness and affirms the ideal of unselfishness.

THE lesson for this month centers attention on four short stories: "Birthday Party" by Katherine Brush, "The New Dress" by Virginia Woolf, "The Dry Rock" by Irwin Shaw, and "Quality" by John Galsworthy. All four stories, with generous comments on each, are printed in full in the literature text, where they should be studied.

Fortunately, one of the four stories, "Birthday Party," is so short enough that it can be included in full in this lesson:

BIRTHDAY PARTY
by Katherine Brush

They were a couple in their late thirties, and they looked unmistakably married. They sat on the banquette opposite us in a little narrow restaurant, having dinner. The man had a round, self-satisfied face, with glasses on it; the woman was fadingly pretty, in a big hat. There was nothing conspicuous about them, nothing particularly noticeable, until the end of their meal, when it suddenly became obvious that this was an Occasion—in fact, the husband's birthday, and the wife had planned a little surprise for him.

It arrived, in the form of a small but glossy birthday cake, with one pink candle burning in the center. The headwaiter brought it in and placed it before the husband, and meanwhile the

946
