[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 142 | PDF Page 147]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 142 (PDF page 147) ---
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Message 56 — "And Ye Shall Bear Record of Me, Even Jesus Christ, That I Am the Son of the Living God" (D & C 68:6).

Christine H. Robinson

For First Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To emphasize the fact that a testimony of Jesus Christ, as the Son of the living God, is the most important need in the world today.

ON one occasion when Jesus was visiting a city known as Caesarea Philippi, in the north, he asked his disciples who men said that he was. His disciples answered that some believed he was John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremias or one of the other ancient prophets. Then Jesus inquired of his disciples who they thought he was. Simon Peter answered and said, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God" (Matt. 16:16).

During his ministry upon this earth, the Savior knew that if his teachings were to endure and to be effective in the lives of his disciples they must know, beyond the shadow of a doubt, that he was the Christ, the long-promised Messiah, the Son of the living God. If this testimony was important when the Lord was living and teaching upon the earth, it is just as important in our lives today. Not being blessed with the personal presence of our Lord to counsel and guide us, we must live by faith, knowing that his spirit can be with us, if we seek it, and knowing that his teachings are not only the most effective but the only genuine guide we have in this modern, complicated life.

When the impressive buildings which now constitute Radio Center were built in the heart of Manhattan, New York, a wise architect inscribed on the walls of the main building the following: "Man's ultimate destiny depends not on whether he can learn new lessons or make new discoveries, or new conquests, but upon his acceptance of the lessons taught him close upon 2,000 years ago."

Today we are experiencing earth-shaking developments and accomplishments in the sciences. We have created remarkable electronic devices which serve and entertain us. We are making marvelous progress in exploring the secrets of space and are even talking about visiting the moon. Yet, none of these accomplishments or conquests will help us solve our basic human problems, nor will they help us in any way to gain eternal salvation, unless we can bear record to the conviction that Jesus is the Christ,

142
