[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 164 | PDF Page 173]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 164 (PDF page 173) ---
Train up a Child

Marion G. Romney
of The Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered at The Relief Society
Annual General Conference
October 3, 1963]

My beloved sisters: To me it is a signal honor to have been named one of your advisers. I intend to do my best to render such service as the calling entails.

I have thought to address you today as mothers on a text taken from the wise man's proverb: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6).

The selection of this text was prompted by my conviction that training our children is our best antidote to the godless materialism, irreverent secularism, declining morality, adult delinquency, increasing crime, and general disregard for the laws of God and the dignity of man which so plague our present society.

It is not my purpose to harrow up your souls by dwelling upon this sordid aspect of our times. My only purpose in calling it to your attention at all is my belief that unless these pernicious practices are checked, they presage the end of our way of life and my further conviction that you, as members of the Relief Society, have the potential to inspire the parents of the Church, particularly mothers, more effectively to train their children to avoid them. The Church can and will assist in that training. But it can only assist. It is not and cannot be a substitute for parents in this, their most urgent parental responsibility.

The importance of this responsibility was emphasized by the Lord in the very early days of the Restored Church, ". . . inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, [he said] . . . that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents" (D&C 68:25).

Eighteen months later he explained that all children are innocent before him in their infant state, but thereafter ". . . that wicked one cometh and [by persuading them to disobedience] taketh away light and truth. . . .

"But [he continues] I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth" (D&C 93:39-40).

He then spoke directly to some of the leading brethren, first to Frederick G. Williams. "You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction." I wonder if some of our afflictions, some of our juvenile delinquency, for example, could be due to the fact that we have

164
