[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 550 | PDF Page 574]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 550 (PDF page 574) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 15—The Application of Divine Law to Life

For Fourth Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To emphasize that religion and life are and must be one.

But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves (James 1:22).

He that receiveth my law and doeth it, the same is my disciple; and he that saith he receiveth it and doeth it not, the same is not my disciple . . . (D&C 41:5).

THESE scriptures have been and still are favorite quotations of speakers. They have been repeated so often that they have almost become verbalisms (a verbalism is an empty form of words) insofar as they inspire any active response in the lives of the hearers.

INTELLIGENT VOLUNTARY ACTION

Christ's action was voluntary even to the giving of his life in the supreme sacrifice. "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself" (John 10:18). In this, as in all other actions, the Savior was aware of the will of the Father. His every act was in line with the divine plan dictated by truth and righteousness and designed to give full and complete expression to man's potential. The major principle of righteous living is voluntary action, knowing good and evil and choosing the good. Action based on fear, superstition, or ignorance will not bring exaltation nor the full realization of perfection.

THE PERFECT PATTERN INVOLVES ACTION

The Savior's life was one of action in complete agreement with his teachings. Even as a child he pointed out the necessity of being about his Father's business. (Luke 2:49.) In reviewing his life, there is abundant evidence of the application of his own teachings. At the conclusion of his earthly activity and in connection with his appearance to the Nephites on the American Continent, the Father testified to the people that Christ's life on earth had been fully accepted when he said, "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name — hear ye him" (3 Nephi 11:7). The Savior thus became the ideal pattern for us

551
