[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 583 | PDF Page 610]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 583 (PDF page 610) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

RUTH LYONS has received the highest "Golden Mike" Award from McCall's Magazine for her outstanding service to children's hospitals throughout the United States, in providing them with therapeutic playroom and playground equipment, bought by funds secured through an appeal over radio and television stations. Other award winners were Marty Camp for her service in the field of education; Ella Harllee for her program "Focus on World Affairs"; Lucy Jarvis for an enlightening program on world affairs; Helen Kimball for her direction of a program to awaken public awareness of the plight of displaced children; Marlene Sanders for her broadcasts on community problems; and Alice Winston for her broadcasts on alcoholism.

THE PRESIDENT'S Commission on the Status of Women in the United States has reported that one in ten women does not marry; one of three workers in the economy is a woman; and more than half of all women in the twenty-five to fifty-four age bracket are in paid employment.

GINA BACHAUER, a renowned Greek pianist, is winning international acclaim and adding to her laurels as one of the greatest of living pianists. The vigor of her technique makes her a "dazzling performer," and her repertoire ranges from Mozart to Stravinsky. She has appeared in hundreds of concerts throughout the world. In March she appeared in the Salt Lake Tabernacle with the Utah Symphony Orchestra in a rendition of Bach's "St. Matthew Passion."

RISE STEVENS, famed mezzo soprano, has been appointed one of two general managers of the new Metropolitan Opera National Company. This is a joint project of the Metropolitan Opera and Kennedy Center in Washington, D. C., designed to give America's best young singers performing experience, and people throughout the country the opportunity of hearing live opera of top quality professional performance. For the 1965-66 season, 220 performances have already been planned.

MARIE SKORA, wife of the American Consul General in Caracas, Venezuela, has presented a showing of woodcuts and other etchings in several United States galleries, including the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., and also in national art exhibits in several Venezuelan cities. Her work is considered of excellent artistic quality.

FRAU ROSEMARIE STRAUSS, of Vienna, Austria, is a city planner who believes "Clean cities are not enough. They must be full of beauty, too . . . . A city must have a soul." She has campaigned for both cleanliness and beauty ever since her city began rebuilding itself out of the mass of rubble it became during World War II. During the International Congress of Town Clearing in Vienna, in April, the world's greatest flower show also opened there, in a grand park built especially for the occasion.

583
