[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 13 | PDF Page 14]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 13 (PDF page 14) ---
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1963 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1963.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Mary Ek Knowles, Ogden, Utah, for her story "Moment of Trust." The second prize of sixty dollars is awarded to Lael J. Littke, Monterey Park, California, for her story "Mama Lives in the Kitchen." The third prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Bonnie M. Dean, Provo, Utah, for her story "Someone to Cheer for Johnny."

The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

award winners | ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY SHORT STORY CONTEST

The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1964.

Seventy-three stories, the largest number ever submitted, were entered in the contest for 1963, including submissions from Canada, Australia, Wales, and England. Mrs. Knowles is a fifth-time winner in the contest; Mrs. Littke is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Dean is a fourth-time winner.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. The General Board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

13
