[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 152 | PDF Page 157]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 152 (PDF page 157) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE • Divine Law and Church Government

Church Government: Its Organization and Structure

Lesson 14 — Summary of Organization and Structure of the Church

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

For Fourth Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the structure and operation of Church government.

The Church is the body of believers, organized [by the Priesthood] according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers, and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth. (WIDTSOE, JOHN A.: Program of the Church, 1941 edition, page 22).

Zion, "The pure in heart," the kingdom of God here upon the earth, is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and no other, and with its divinely restored power of the priesthood of the Living God, with its ordinances, organizations, agencies, and facilities, and with its message of pure, eternal gospel truth, it reaches out the hand of fellowship to the whole human family, to lead the Father's children into transcendent joy, eternal progress, and the presence of our Lord (RICHARDS, STEPHEN L: Where Is Wisdom? page 406).

The Priesthood is a dynamic creative power and a directing force upon the earth. Adam held the Holy Priesthood after the order of the Son of God. In the various dispensations of time, God has activated his Priesthood, instituted his government, and offered his services to the human family.

Having in mind the welfare of his children and being constantly aware of the purpose of creation, God has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men.

The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth today. In it there is a fitness of the gospel being administered by his authorized agents. This means that all the wisdom, counsel, and direction (divine law), that God has ever revealed to man to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation have been restored.

The Restoration of the Priesthood

The 6th of April, 1830, was both a climax and a beginning in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The major event in its history took place in a grove in early spring of 1820. In this quiet, peaceful place the testimony of the ancient scriptures was verified as the boy Joseph Smith beheld the Father and the Son.

Their declaration to him, that the Church of God was not upon the earth, began a chain of events that

152
