[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 310 | PDF Page 323]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 310 (PDF page 323) ---
Notes FROM THE FIELD

General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker

New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Relief Society Holds "Blast-Off" Social
For Ward Leaders
September 21, 1963

Seated, center foreground: Beulah B. Larson, former president, New Orleans Stake Relief Society.

Sister Larson reports: "The stake board held this social to establish close working relations between the stake and ward officers and class leaders, and to get our new Relief Society year off to a good start. A humorous play 'Relief Society — Why?' was presented to encourage full participation in the Relief Society program. Other numbers on the program included a reading, special musical numbers, and a rendition by ward Singing Mothers group. Each stake officer and board member sat with and served lunch to her group of ward leaders. After lunch, we held our first leadership meeting of the new year. Another skit — 'The Good Ship Relief Society' — was used to introduce members of the stake board. After opening exercises, we conducted our usual departmental work, which brought to a close a very successful day in Relief Society. We feel that it laid the foundation for greater achievements in our stake."

Cleora K. Williams is the new president of New Orleans Stake Relief Society.

Ogden Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions

Front row, seated, left to right: Ruth G. Williams, Second Counselor; Pearl G. Williams, President; Marguerite R. Burton, First Counselor; Joyce Montgomery, assistant organist; Arvilla P. Arrowsmith, stake organist; Neva P. Simonsen, stake chorister; K. Gunn McKay, narrator of the presentation "God So Loved the World." Other participants: Patti Ann Jensen; Gayle Anderson; Marion Romander; Lucille Richardson; Afton F. McKell; Edith G. Briem.

Sister Williams reports: "We are very proud of the accomplishments of our Singing Mothers this year. They have furnished the music for stake conference, together with Relief Society conference. Each month in our Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special musical numbers. In April the Singing Mothers presented a beautifully arranged concert in the Ogden Tabernacle, before a large audience. We were very happy for the presence of Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board of Relief Society. At our annual spring party held in May for all the women in the stake, we presented 'God So Loved the World.' The Singing Mothers furnished the music for that beautiful presentation. It was so favorably received that seven of our bishops asked that the presentation be given in their sacrament meetings. Our stake presidency was host to all the stake presidencies in the Ogden region at a lovely banquet. For this occasion the Singing Mothers were asked to give the presentation of 'God So Loved the World.' It was beautifully rendered and very inspirational. Everyone enjoyed the evening and expressed a greater desire to keep the commandments of our Father in heaven more fully and to serve him better."

310
