[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 413 | PDF Page 434]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 413 (PDF page 434) ---
THE SHEEP THAT STRAYED ON SUNDAY

and a pink ribbon sash. I wore matching bows of ribbon on each of my two long braids. The three of us wore heavy ribbed long black cotton stockings, and black laced shoes.

Papa, a bit restless in church, kept pulling at his collar and crossing and uncrossing his legs, much to the annoyance of Mama. When closing prayer was said, he wasted no time ushering us out to our waiting Lizzie. Mama barely had time for a few handshakes and words of greeting.

Lizzie needed no coaxing today, just one twist on the crank handle and she purred like a kitten. Papa slid over the side and under the steering wheel. He adjusted the spark, took off the brake, pulled down the gas, and we were off at a moderate rate of speed, about fifteen miles per hour, waving goodbye to our friends.

It always pleased Papa as he left our friends behind in their carriages and horses and left them after us.

Down Main Street we went without making the usual turn for home.

"Where are we going?" inquired Mama, as we passed by our street.

"Oh, I thought you might like a little ride," said Papa.

"We should have gone home first and changed our clothes," remarked Mama, not wanting to get dusty, and worrying about the breeze ruining her plumes.

"We won't be long," said Papa, slowing down a little. It was such a lovely drive down past the depot, across the river bridge, and along the side of the hill.

A short distance to the left, the dangerous river wound its way through pasture lands, and chattering magpies flew in and out the willows and bullberry bushes. On and on we went, thoroughly enjoying the scenery. Papa was always happy when escorting Lizzie around.

Now and then a little breeze swayed the feathers on Mama's hat, and the sun played hide-and-go-seek through the lacy brim. I loved to watch the shadows dance about on her lovely face. The road was becoming more rough, and she held a little tighter to her hat to keep it from bobbing up and down.

"Those look like sheep tracks along the hill, don't they?" inquired Mama.

"They sure do," replied Papa, "and not more than a day or two old."

"I think we had better turn back, Ed. It's getting quite dusty," said Mama apprehensively.

But Papa was busy scanning the hillside. Then, quite unexpectedly, Peter cried, "Look out, Papa, some sheeps!"

Papa slammed on his brake just in time to keep from hitting an old ewe and two baby lambs coming onto the road. The sudden force threw Mama against the windshield, brushing her forehead and bending her hat. Her hat pins pulled loose and with them came strands of long black hair. Papa's derby flew off his head and rolled

413
