[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 810 | PDF Page 849]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 82% | Novel words: 10%]

--- PAGE 810 (PDF page 849) ---
"Take My
Yoke Upon You"

Counselor Marianne C. Sharp

[Address Delivered at the General
Session of the Relief Society Annual
General Conference, September 30, 1964]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

As I was reading in Matthew recently, I was impressed by some verses which I feel sure most of us could repeat from memory:

Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek, and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.

As I read this comforting invitation I wondered, what is the yoke of the Savior for me, a Latter-day Saint woman, which we all should take upon us; and what makes the burden light?

As I thought of the yoke of the Savior, I decided that for a married woman it would, first of all, be striving for perfection as a wife and mother. No woman can find rest in her soul if she is not daily seeking to become better in these two most important responsibilities. The burdens of life are ever pressing upon us, and if we do not keep our eyes single to these two fundamental duties, our souls are

without rest, unrighteous burdens crush out the joy, and leave boredom, frustrations, and unhappiness in its place.

To be a joyful wife we must honor the Priesthood in our homes and support our husbands in righteous endeavors. We must keep our homes in order and make them havens of peace and love.

To be a joyful mother we must devote ourselves to our children; teach them to respect the Priesthood, be obedient to their fathers, and do the part of a mother in training them in light and truth.

As I considered further the yoke of the Savior for a woman, I naturally considered activities to which I have devoted my time. I pondered on the time which I have spent in Relief Society work. Is that a part of the yoke?

I quickly decided that Relief Society offers the opportunity to help a woman take upon herself the yoke of the Savior and find that his burden is light. What does Relief Society give to a woman to bring rest unto her soul?

810
