[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 392 | PDF Page 409]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 392 (PDF page 409) ---
MAY 1964

Northwestern States Mission, Mid-Columbia District Indian Articles on Display at
a Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair, The Dalles, Oregon, September 12, 1963

Verna Geneal L. Wood, President, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Mid-Columbia District of the Northwestern States Mission sponsored a Friendship Day and Homemakers' Fair. The women's auxiliaries of other churches, and other women's groups in the area were invited to attend. Displays were made of Indian artifacts, painting, flower arrangements, ceramics, genealogy, Christmas suggestions, babies' world, toys, arts and crafts, quilts and pillows, fascinating foods, and partytime.

"During the afternoon demonstrations were given on different types of parties, cake decorating, and homemade soap. A movie on figure flattery was shown before the fashion show of homemade clothing. Punch and cookies were served during the afternoon. Approximately one hundred women attended the luncheon, and the reports from these women were most gratifying. The Mid-Columbia District is composed of branches at The Dalles, Oregon; Glendale, Klickitat, White Salmon, and Stevenson, Washington. It covers an area of about one hundred miles, and has 129 Relief Society members. The district officers are: President Laurel Scholes; Education Counselor Farris Jolley; Work Director Counselor Vonda Emmett; Secretary-Treasurer Velma Page; music director Lucille Harshburger."

Southwest British Mission, First Singing Mothers Chorus Organized
In Cornwall, July 1963

Front row, left to right: Thelma Lashmore; Maureen Paddy; Gladys Hailey; Evelyn Bunny.

Second row, left to right: Vera Butler (missionary-director); Annie Miners; Nettie Roberts; Else Wall; Gyneith Thomas; Rahil Harris.

Back row, left to right: Joy Bone; Elizabeth Harvey; Monica Webb; Emma Lou Webb (missionary); Anne Webb; Joyce Beste; Veoma Done (missionary and district board member).

Elaine B. Curtis, President, Southwest British Mission Relief Society, reports: "Since the organization of this chorus, the sisters have been called upon to sing several times for various occasions within the mission. They sang for a Relief Society leadership meeting and genealogical convention held in Plymouth, England, traveling more than 150 miles by rail, bus, and car, and paying their own expenses."

Indianapolis Stake (Indiana) Visiting Teacher Convention, October 12, 1963

Left to right, front row: Marguerite Onionès, Work Director Counselor; Joan Griesemer, Education Counselor; Beverly Ferguson, President.

Sister Ferguson reports: "A wonderful time was had by the sisters who attended the visiting teacher convention, October 12, 1963, the theme of which was 'Love.' The convention was highlighted by words of wisdom and encouragement from the Relief Society advisor Bluer Vern Hobson.

"Relief Society pins were awarded to Mariam Hobson, in appreciation for her fifty-six years of active service, and to Ethel Buttons, eighty-one years old, for being the oldest active visiting teacher in the stake. The centerpieces, made by the wards and branches, portraying love of service, home, Relief Society, education, neighbors, country, God, activity, music, virtue, beauty, and visiting teaching helped to make an already delicious luncheon even more delightful. We were made more aware of the importance of visiting teaching from the lighter side by the skit 'If the Shoe Fits, Wear It,' and songs entitled 'Excuses' and 'Go, Go, Go and Teach.'

"The sweet spirit of love was present throughout the convention, which gave each sister a stronger determination to fulfill her responsibilities as a visiting teacher."

392
