[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 465 | PDF Page 486]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 465 (PDF page 486) ---
JUNE 1964

[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for
Annual Christmas Concert, December 21, 1963

Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports:
"Amid the festive holiday splendor of poinsettias and holly, sixty Singing Mothers of the North Davis Stake sang songs of the Christmas season and hymns of praise to the Prince of Peace at their annual Christmas concert. It was an evening long to be remembered by families and friends who filled the chapel to overflowing.

"The table in one foyer was decorated to depict an old-fashioned Christmas, with an oil lamp, bowls of shiny red apples and popcorn, and an old Bible opened to the Christmas story. Decorations in the other foyer portrayed 'Peace on Earth,' with a nativity scene, a Bible opened to Luke 2, candles and poinsettias.

"The sisters were dressed in snowy white blouses and dark skirts, each with a colorful red Christmas corsage. As the narrator set the atmosphere for each musical number, colored slides of nativity scenes were shown to bring to our hearts the true spirit of Christmas.

"Following the concert, refreshments, consisting of French pastries and fruited punch, were served at two beautifully decorated tables which added to the yuletide atmosphere. Iola Murray was the capable director of this lovely evening. The superb artistry upon the organ by Alice Gailey, and the equally beautiful accompaniment upon the piano by Marvetta Saunders (mother and daughter) were enjoyed by all. Talented guest artists presented special vocal and instrumental numbers.

"These mothers have faithfully met at nine in the morning each Saturday to practice for the Christmas concert and stake conference. To be a Singing Mother is a joy and satisfaction which is held in high regard among our members. Susan W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and her Counselors LaVon S. Reid and Vera Thursgood, and board members were responsible for the planning, decorations, and refreshments for this lovely and successful evening."

466
