[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 181 | PDF Page 190]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 12%]

--- PAGE 181 (PDF page 190) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind/embracing a globe of the Earth]

MRS. Esther E. Peterson, a native Utahn, Assistant Secretary of Labor in the Cabinet of President Lyndon B. Johnson, in January, was given the additional post of Special Assistant to the President for Consumer Affairs, with the special duties of "organizing the consumer and making his voice heard." Mrs. Peterson now holds the highest position in the executive department of the Government ever assigned to a woman. A wife, mother, and homemaker, Mrs. Peterson has a wide interest and special training in many fields of social service, and civic and governmental affairs.

LESLEY Frost Ballantine, daughter of poet Robert Frost, whose death all America mourned in 1963, has been a teacher, a journalist, an author, a bookstore proprietor, and a lecturer for the State Department in Spain and Latin America. In an article in the December Redbook, "Our Family Christmas," she describes a Christmas when the Frost children were young, and she lists a group of choice family Christmas readings that any family would find useful.

KYUNG O. Kim is the only woman pilot in the Republic of Korea. She is now the proud owner of a new Piper Colt airplane. The project was sponsored by the International Organization of Women Pilots, by a special committee called a "Colt for Kim," which was organized through the efforts of Mrs. Doris H. Renninger of East Norwich, New York, and other members of the women pilots' organization.

LADY Clementine Churchill is the subject of a biography, My Darling Clementine, written by Jack Fishman, which is on the top-selling list of books in Britain, the European Continent, and America. Lady Clementine, a Grecian-type beauty, has devoted her charm, tact, and intelligence to her unusual husband, Sir Winston, and to his turbulent career. He proudly acknowledges her contributions to his life, happiness, and success.

181
