[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 8 | PDF Page 9]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 9) ---
THE Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three winners in the 1963 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the May 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and closed August 15,1963.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "The First to Go." The second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Hazel Loomis, Casper, Wyoming, for her poem "Verdure." The third prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Margery S. Stewart, Pacific Palisades, California, for her poem "Quo Vadis."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second General President of Relief Society, a gifted poet and inspirational leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

award winners     ELIZA R. SNOW
                  POEM CONTEST

Prize-winning poems are the property of the General Board of Relief Society, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

Mrs. Bailey appears for the fifth time as a winner in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest; Mrs. Loomis is a first-time winner; and Mrs. Stewart is a third-time winner.

There were 330 poems entered in the contest for 1963. Entries were received from thirty-six of the fifty states, including Hawaii, with the largest number, in order, coming from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Oregon, and Washington. England, Canada, Australia, Wales, Scotland, and Peru were also represented among the entries.

The General Board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The General Board wishes also to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the General Board are very much appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief highlights on the prize-winning contestants, are published in this issue of the Magazine.

8
