[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 542 | PDF Page 566]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 542 (PDF page 566) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

that in our limited knowledge, it is impossible for us to know the circumstances which prompt others' actions. The Lord alone knows the capabilities, the thoughts, the needs and desires, which motivate human action. In the Book of Psalms we read ". . . he [the Lord] hath prepared his throne for judgment. And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness" (Psalms 9:7-8).

The Savior said, "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1). The scriptures repeatedly emphasize that by the judgment we mete to others we also shall be judged.

Undoubtedly, the best way to overcome our proneness to judge others is to form the wonderful habit of looking for their good qualities rather than for their faults.

A certain individual had fallen into the habit of criticizing and complaining about an acquaintance with whom he was in close association. In discussing the problem with a friend, he was asked, "Does not your associate have any good qualities?" To which came the reply, "Yes, he is generous to a fault."

This appraisal started him thinking about the man's good qualities. Each time a negative and fault-finding thought entered his mind, he immediately tried to think of a good quality with which to replace it. As a consequence, this approach soon revealed that his associate possessed many fine qualities. It wasn't long before the two became fast friends.

One of the results of fault-finding and attempting to judge others is that it establishes a negative point of view, which clouds our vision and cankers our souls. On the other hand, looking for the good in others is the positive approach, and enhances and manifests the good in our own personalities.

President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. emphasized the importance of leaving judgment to the Lord and of the fact that the Lord judges us with mercy and love. He said:

I have a feeling . . . that when the time comes for passing judgment . . . for every good deed we have done, we shall receive the full reward that it is possible to bestow under the rules and laws governing, and having in mind justice. And I have the further feeling that for every ill thing we do there will be imposed upon us the least penalty that may be bestowed having in mind the principles involved,—eternal justice seasoned with mercy and love (Clark, J. Reuben, Jr.: Conference Report, April 1958, pages 48-49).

PRAYER

Nellie B. Schmidt

Blessed are they who have learned to pray,
For they shall walk in the light;
For prayer is the key that opens the day
And the lock that guards the night.

543
