[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 471 | PDF Page 492]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 471 (PDF page 492) ---
JUNE 1964

Discussion 4: Home — A Haven of Happiness

Objective: To discuss the tremendous import of the state of the home on the happiness of the family.

Discussion 5: Using One's Resources to Find Happiness

Objective: To appraise ways one can use those things she already possesses to further the happiness of her family and herself.

Discussion 6: The Happiness That Comes From Work

Objective: To observe the effect of work on one's happiness.

Discussion 7: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part I)

Objective: To discuss the need for improving one's own power of expression as an asset to happiness.

Discussion 8: Good Communication Is Essential to Happiness (Part II)

Objective: To point up the great need among family members and friends to understand each other through good communication.

LITERATURE

The Individual and Human Values as Seen Through Literature

Textbook: Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I: The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah

Preview of Lessons for 1964-65

Dr. Bruce B. Clark

FOR the first time in its history the Relief Society organization is publishing its own textbook for use in the literature program for the two years ahead. As indicated above, the general title of the work is Out of the Best Books: An Anthology of Literature. Part I, just published, and intended for years' use during 1964-65 and 1965-66, is sub-titled The Individual and Human Values As Seen Through Literature. Parts II and III, now in preparation, are intended for use in subsequent years. The authors are Bruce B. Clark, Professor of English and Chairman of the English Department at Brigham Young University, and Robert K. Thomas, Associate Professor of English and Director of the Honors Program at Brigham Young University.

The principal idea behind the new book and the new literature program related to it is that the best way to study literature is to read it — that the work of literature itself is more important than anything that can be said about it or its author. Therefore, rather than emphasize historical and biographical matters, the new approach will emphasize the selections of literature themselves,

472
