[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 819 | PDF Page 858]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 819 (PDF page 858) ---
REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS

ginning in 1965, following the plan as outlined above.

NO HANDWORK DURING LESSON PRESENTATIONS

A question which has persisted through the years is as follows: May the members do handwork during the presentation of the lessons? The General Board in no way alters the position taken on this matter as early as 1940, which is as follows: The sisters should not engage in sewing or any type of handwork in any Relief Society meeting except the work meeting, which is primarily for these activities. To engage in handwork during the presentation of a lesson divides the attention of the class member; it is not conducive to her active participation in the lesson, since she is less inclined to raise her hand, set aside her handwork, and stand to make her contribution. It is often distracting to a class leader or neighboring class member and carries with it an element of discourtesy.

WORK MEETING

The work meeting, second to the theology meeting in attendance, was unusually successful in terms of interesting women in Relief Society, and in training them in the homemaking arts and skills. The sisters completed a total of 1,054,894 articles. Of this number, 687,091 were sewed articles, including quilts, clothing, and household furnishings; and 367,803 were handicraft articles. New and better methods of home management and better methods of performing

homemaking tasks were learned. The ideals of homemaking embodied in Latter-day Saint teachings were discussed. It is felt that this meeting is highly productive in helping the sisters to maintain homes in keeping with Latter-day Saint standards of order, cleanliness, thrift, and spiritual strength.

It is noted that there is marked improvement in the work meetings where there is planning in advance for the twelve monthly meetings; however, appropriate activities for summer meetings still need consideration in some instances. Activities should be suited to the membership as a whole; financial costs, either to the organization or to the individual members, should be carefully weighed, and programs should be in harmony with the general purposes and character of the work meeting as outlined by the General Board. (The new coordinated lessons will require that at least a portion of the time be a formal meeting.)

As an aid to work meeting leaders, the General Board is issuing a new booklet entitled, "Work Four Seasons to Fill the Measure of the Year." A limited supply is now ready for purchase at the library counter on the second floor of the Relief Society Building at a cost of $1.25 per copy. It will be advantageous for work meeting leaders planning to attend the work meeting department of this conference to have this booklet in their hands during the meeting. We are sorry that the cost of issuing this booklet, as well as the nursery booklet and kit, do not permit us to distribute a free copy of

819
