[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 535 | PDF Page 559]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 535 (PDF page 559) ---
Lesson Department

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 57—The Vision
Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 76:1-49)
For First Meeting, October 1964

Objective: To study the origin of Section 76; its teachings concerning eternal progression; the vision of God and Christ; and the meaning of Satan's victory and his defeat.

INTRODUCTION

Of all the revelations received by the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning man and, particularly, his destiny, probably none other equals Section 76. In discussing the latter-day books of scripture, President Willard Woodruff made the following statement:

... When I read these solemn, these eternal declarations made through the mouth of Joseph Smith, my heart swells with gratitude and praise to God, my heavenly Father. I consider that the Doctrine and Covenants, our Testament, contains a code of the most solemn, the most Godlike proclamations ever made to the human family. I will refer to the "Vision" alone, as a revelation which gives more light, more truth, and more principle than any revelation contained in any other book we have ever read. It makes plain to our understanding our present condition, where we came from, why we are here, and where we are going to. Any man may know through that revelation what his part and condition will be. For all men know which laws they keep, and the laws which men keep here will determine their position hereafter; they will be preserved by those laws and receive the blessings which belong to them (Journal of Discourses 22:146-147).

On the day this great revelation was received, February 16, 1832, the Prophet wrote his own evaluation of what the Lord had made known to him. The purity of this revelation

... witnesses the fact that that document is a transcript from the records of the eternal world. The sublimity of the ideas; the purity of the language; the scope for action; the continued duration for completion, in order that the heirs of salvation may confess the Lord and bow the knee; the rewards for faithfulness, and the punishments for sins, are so much beyond the narrow-mindedness of men, that every honest man is constrained to exclaim: "It came from God" (DHC 1:252-253).

536
