[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 59 | PDF Page 60]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 59 (PDF page 60) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

God has rolled on until today the voice of opposition is largely submerged by the prophesied, inevitable progress of successful endeavors.

Commandments Are True
Obedience to truth is the prescription for happiness here and eternal joy in the life to come. The Lord admonished the Prophet and Sidney Rigdon to keep the commandments for they are true. (D & C 71:11.) The knowledge of truth is given by the Spirit which the missionary is counseled to receive and to teach by. President Joseph F. Smith stated the importance of adhering to the truth in these words:

Our hope of salvation must be founded upon the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, for we cannot build upon error and ascend into the courts of eternal truth and enjoy the glory and exaltation of the kingdom of our God. That cannot be done (Conference Report, October 1917, page 3).

Section 73
Section 73 is one of the shortest revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. After performing missionary work in several Ohio cities not far from Kirtland, Joseph Smith was commanded by this revelation to continue the work of revising the Bible which was interrupted by the mission call of Section 71. This was an undertaking which began in New York State and was set aside as other matters needed immediate attention. In a subsequent lesson some of the contributions of this work will be indicated. For the present, however, it should be known that many important contributions have been made to our understanding of the Bible as a result of that "translation."

An interesting expression, "gird up your loins and be sober," is found in verse 6 of Section 73. The admonition "gird up your loins" means to be prepared for a journey, or for a certain work. In this sense it is found in the hymn "Come, Come, Ye Saints." In this scripture, we are informed that it is to be understood as used by Peter, "Gird up the loins of your minds" (I Peter 1:13). In other words, the mind should be free from those things which deter one from the work at hand. To be sober means to be of a serious mind. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 431.)

Section 75 — Introduction
At the conclusion of a conference held in Amherst, Ohio, a number of the elders asked the Prophet to inquire of the Lord concerning their specific duties in bringing people to a sense of their condition. In recording this fact the Prophet quoted a scripture that emphasizes that everyone sins and, therefore, is in need of repentance. (D & C 33:4; DHC 1:242-243.)

The opening verses of Section 75 may be applied to the thousands of missionaries of this dispensation. In these five verses the missionary is commissioned to proclaim the Lord's gospel in earnestness, eschewing idleness, and to be mighty in that proclamation. The earnest missionary's message should be delivered as the sound of a trumpet. This expression alludes to the sounds of this instrument that can be heard far and wide with mighty blasts.

59
