[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 814 | PDF Page 853]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 814 (PDF page 853) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

school live in rather meager circumstances, yet live in deep contentment. They are preparing for more plenteous living but are happy along the way.

There are always those who believe that happiness can be bought; that money, possessions, things to be owned, places to go automatically bring happiness. This is seldom true. "Money may buy the husk of things, but not the kernel. It brings you food but not appetite, medicine but not health, acquaintances but not friends — days of joy but not peace or happiness," according to Henrik Ibsen. Before one sets his heart upon something it would be well to examine how happy they are who already possess it.

One definition of happiness for thoughtful examination is: "The happiest person is the person who thinks the most interesting thoughts." "How essential it is," taught William Lyon Phelps, "to be able to live inside a mind with attractive and interesting pictures on the walls." What a delightful way of reminding us that what we are within may grow more beautiful with the advancing years if we have stored treasures of study, experience, and education in our minds. Nothing exceeds the beauty and happiness of plain living and high thinking.

Work, work that is interesting, work that we love is happiness. No one is happy who does nothing. Idleness is anything but happiness. Few persons realize how much of their happiness is dependent upon their work; good hard work that affords an outlet for all their talents and abilities. Real life is love, laughter, and

work. To accomplish, to achieve and exceed our goal — this, too, is happiness.

Happiness comes to us in many ways. There are moments of transcending happiness, and many moments of quiet happiness in simple, ordinary things. Someone has said that you should not seek happiness as if it were the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow, but among people living a full rewarding life. Each day should bring its own rewards.

"Faith is the foundation of all things, including happiness," is one of President David O. McKay's "Ten Rules to Happiness." With faith nothing is impossible. The peace of mind and serenity of heart that are necessary come through faith in the Lord and understanding and living the gospel. Religious principles are engrained in the hearts of truly happy people. The deepest joys are spiritual in nature.

Happiness is love at home. The wealth, fame, power, or riches of the world cannot compare with the joy of love between husband and wife shared and enhanced by loved and loving children. No peace is so sweet, no security so firm, no joy so complete as love at home. This kind of love was with us in our heavenly home before we came to the world and will be with us in our eternal home and family life.

True happiness then is love, contentment, self-discipline, work, service, enlightenment, faith, and the blessings of our Heavenly Father. May we all live to experience happiness in its fullest measure.

814
