[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 591 | PDF Page 618]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 591 (PDF page 618) ---
THE SOMEDAY VACATION

"I wasn't sleepy so I came to Grandma's room. It would take a written excuse from the King of England to keep mother from that meeting."

"Not from the King, from the bishop," I said.

"Ellie, that's it! You young ones scamper off to bed so we'll be ready to leave in the morning." Grandma fairly pushed us toward our rooms.

Through the partition wall between our bed and Grandma's reading table, we could hear her dial her phone. We couldn't hear what she said. Minutes later there was a knock on the front door and we heard Daddy say, "Come in, Bishop, what a pleasant surprise to see you tonight."

Nancy and I hurried out into the hall. Grandma and Tom were there ahead of us peering through the bannister into the living room.

"Brother Sorenson," the bishop boomed, "the camper in your yard reminded me that you are going fishing. I have some fancy lures I thought you might like to try." He put a little box on the table.

"That's mighty thoughtful of you, Bishop," Daddy said. "I guess we won't be leaving for a couple of days."

"Couple of days!" There was surprise in the bishop's voice. "Understood you were going in the morning."

"There's a Relief Society meeting Wednesday," Mother said.

"Yes, I know. Haven't you a couple of counselors, Sister Sorenson?"

Mother hesitated, "Why, yes. But this is a presidents' meeting."

"So it is. But, remember, there are three people in the presidency. Your counselors will be glad to go alone this time for this planning meeting. We must not make service in the Church a burdensome thing. When it is done right, it is very joyous. All our organizations are patterned after a perfect plan. Our families are part of this plan. It is built around them. Now, go with your family and have a happy vacation."

"Thank you so much, Bishop. I will call Sister Hansen tonight." There was the happiness of a burden lifted, in Mother's voice.

"Why, blessings go with you. We love you both for your faithfulness. Goodnight." With a handshake, the bishop was gone.

We were hugging each other in the dark.

There was a moment's silence, then Mother said softly, "Isn't it strange that he should come by tonight!"

"Strange and wonderful," Daddy said.

Mother sat down at the telephone and Daddy started for the hall. Swift as rabbits we fled for our rooms and into our beds. Daddy turned the hall lights on and came whooping up the stairs with a bound that shook the rafters.

"Look out Yellowstone, here we come!"

Bursting into our room, he gave us each a resounding goodnight kiss, and playfully tucked us in, including Grandma.

591
