[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 269 | PDF Page 282]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 269 (PDF page 282) ---
MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

thought, with a flash of compassion.

Some days later, Douglas took Susan out for the afternoon and when they returned, it was to find people, busy with trowels and boxes of plants, crowding the garden.

"What's this?" Susan demanded, her face tight with dismay.

Douglas turned her round to face him. "This was Ken's idea. We thought it a good one. These are the folks you've helped for years. This is their way of thanking you — the labor of their hands. Are you going to tell them to leave, because it's your place, or accept the gifts we've brought, and will go on bringing as long as you'll let us?"

Susan's expression altered. Her eyes shone as she watched her friends. "I've been stupid to want to be independent. See how happy they look!"

Walking towards them, her voice lifted, joyously, "Douglas has just told me what you have planned. It's a wonderful surprise, and the best present I've had in my whole life."

Kenny, disheveled and earnest, appeared. "Is it a good garden party, Mum?"

Susan's laugh held the old merry ring. "It's the best idea you ever had, Ken," she assured him, and, sensing that his Mum was herself again, he beamed.

"Where d'you want these rose trees put?" he asked, importantly.

---

Quintet for Spring
Hazel Loomis

He came with spring full in his face.
Gone autumn's doubt, gone winter's seal.
Spring's garlands wove a path of lace,
A petaled spring was warm to feel.

The earth was bright and garden-green
Around about him where he knelt
Within a maple-wooded scene.
Oh, prayer, pierce sky! Oh, heaven, melt.

And forge from rock a holy stream
Of promise for a crying void
Of wisdom's lack!
Who was he to doubt the word?

A blackness — battle-pitched until
Spring burst, fire-opal bright,
With words so clean
They covered all the earth.

Oh, many springs are woven there —
A gentle path — a quiet wood —
Where he came alone for prayer....
Tread lightly, lightly where he stood.

269
