[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 632 | PDF Page 659]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 632 (PDF page 659) ---
AUGUST 1964

TRUTH VS. MEANING

In "Ode on a Grecian Urn" Keats asserts that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." Such a statement has poetic meaning, this is, it sums up the intent of this entire poem as adequately as any few words can, but even this statement about truth need not be "true" to us if we judge its claim on the basis of standards not in the work itself. If we remember the distinction we set up in our first lesson between the so-called Platonic and Aristotelian approaches to literature, you will recall that only under the Platonic method are the message, or truth of a work, and its meaning the same. Under the Aristotelian approach we are not looking for truth so much as we are looking at relationships. If these relationships are skillfully presented — as they are in Keats' poem — we call these relationships the poem's "meaning." We have voluntarily restricted our standards for judging to those which we find in the work itself. As might be expected, this approach is popular with those who do not have strong philosophical or religious beliefs.

As members of the Church, we have such encompassing beliefs that we are seldom at a loss to establish standards for judgment. It might well be argued, therefore, that for many of us the burden of Keats' "Ode" is meaningfully untrue. Judged by standards set up in the work itself the exclusive identification of truth and beauty seems inevitable. The various images which are present-

ed so graphically are wonderfully evocative. This is physical beauty at its acme. But viewed from a slightly higher level, this is hardly all we either "know on earth" or "need to know." At best, Keats' statement seems partial.

To say this, however, is not to say that we can afford to ignore it. To appreciate the depth which Keats sounds in this poem is in itself instructive, for it lets us see how shallow our vision of the whole is in comparison with this beautifully plumbed half-truth. The Mosaic law may be only a school master, but we hardly understand the New Testament concept of self-sacrificing love unless we have assimilated the Old Testament idea of fairness. So it is with our critical appreciation. If we insist that truth and meaning must be identical, we are not being fair either to our own basic beliefs or to a work which falls short of presenting them All the sensitivity which we develop in extracting meaning that is limited by the work in which it occurs, will be even more useful in appreciating the profound truths of the restored gospel.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What is the advantage of viewing a literary work from several critical perspectives?

2. On what basis may we surmise that some works will survive the time in which they are written?

3. What is involved in understanding the total meaning of a literary work?

4. Why should we study works whose "truth" seems to us to be limited?

Note to Class Leaders: Longfellow's wife was not fatally burned at Christmas time as stated in the October Literature Lesson but on July 10, 1861.

632
