[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 370 | PDF Page 387]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 370 (PDF page 387) ---
Your Heart to Understanding

[ILLUSTRATION]

Hazel M. Thomson                                    CHAPTER 4

Synopsis: Selena and Belle Baldwin, sisters, arrive in the Valley of Great Salt Lake, after traveling across the plains in a company commanded by Lon Holliday, captain of fifty, and Josiah Blogged, captain of ten. Selena, whose fiancé died at Winter Quarters, is bitter over her loss and cannot be comforted. Belle and Josiah are married immediately after the arrival of the wagon train in the Valley. They decide to accompany the saints who are leaving for San Bernardino, California, to make a settlement there. Selena is invited to accompany Belle and Josiah, and Lon, still in love with Selena, decides to go with the company.

LON was silent for some time, waging a battle within himself, between what he wanted to do and the thing he felt was right and honorable. Belle, too, lapsed into silence, taking a deep interest in the country around her, as she did wherever she traveled.

As they watched the beautiful mountains, both Lon and Belle could see the lead wagons pulling off to the side to stop for the night. Some of the people in the

wagon train would find friends here at Provo. This night there would be singing and dancing and the renewal of friendships. Cabin doors would be thrown open to bid the travelers welcome, and hot meals would be provided through the hospitality of these saints, so recently on the trail themselves.

"I can't do it, Belle," Lon finally said.

"You can't do it? But why, Lon?"

"Selena doesn't know her own mind right now. I can't ask her to marry me yet."

"I'm giving you fair warning, Lon. I know how long you have been in love with my sister, but if you stand by and let this Alfred Quale step into Selena's life you'll not be doing her any favor."

"How can you be so sure, Belle? He might be a whole lot better Latter-day Saint than I am. What do you have against him, anyway?"

370
