[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 484 | PDF Page 508]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 484 (PDF page 508) ---
Victory Over Wilderness

Alberta H. Christensen
Member, General Board of Relief Society

LOOKING westward from my window, I see a wide and beautiful valley. It is peopled and prosperous. Commerce and industry speak through structures of brick and steel outlined against the sky. There are parks and municipal rose gardens. In full summer lilac are sycamore, oak, and the flowering hawthorne. Orchard fruit is maturing and the fields beyond are amber with ripening wheat.

And yet, a mere one hundred and seventeen years ago this valley floor was barren waste. Only the gray sage and sand and mountains rimmed the inland sea. What brought these dormant acres into productivity? What wand of magic urged the green blade above the arid loam? Unity of effort wrought this miracle. Men and women whose faith was stronger than sorrow, than hardship, than self-denial, won this victory over wilderness.

"The world owes much to men and women who have felt that God had a work for them to do," writes Dr. J. Leonard Arrington. The Mormon pioneers believed that God had a work for them to do, a pattern to follow. Such belief was basic to their pioneering, underlying all early Mormon settlement of the West. It gave purpose and meaning to an incredible march over hundreds of miles of rough and roadless land; to the dream of establishing a commonwealth in a desert.

Such dedication to conviction led thousands of converts in the Eastern United States to exchange the comforts of long established living, for the uncertainties of pioneer life. It led thousands of converts in Europe to hazard an ocean voyage and life in a faraway and unfamiliar land.

A deep and substantial faith that the Church leadership was

an inspired leadership gave them additional courage, for the pioneer trail did not always end with arrival in the Salt Lake Valley. Many of those early pioneers were counseled by the Church to leave their so newly established homes in the mountain valleys, and to explore and settle other and even more forbidding regions. Almost beyond belief is the pioneering of the San Juan River Basin, and the crossing of the Colorado River through the perilous Hole in the Rock. Only the willing of spirit and the brave of heart would have attempted that pioneering assignment, and only the obedient, the willing and dedicated could have brought it to fulfillment.

THIS belief in the truthfulness of the gospel and in the divinely ordained mission of the Church fortified my own paternal grandmother in the early years of the

Church, as she left home and friends in Blaenvon, Wales, to go to America. She would be traveling with five small sons but without her husband. My grandfather had emigrated months before in order to obtain employment and money to send for the family. The little boys were recovering from whooping cough when the "Dreadnought" left port, and the youngest child, dying en route, was buried in the Atlantic. Yet grandmother did not regret her decision, nor was her faith diminished by the nearly four-month journey by ox team across the plains.

When we speak of pioneering, we often think only of the strong and vigorous men who blazed a path through the wild, unsettled frontier. But to establish the foundation for continuing family and community life, women were also needed, and more than strength of sinew was required.

484                                                                                                                           485
