[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 796 | PDF Page 831]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 796 (PDF page 831) ---
OCTOBER 1964

2. Are parents equally responsible for the success of their family?
3. Does the Priesthood in the home increase the parental responsibility? Explain.
4. What is the real test of character?
5. How important is the home in the development of citizenship?
6. What are the essentials of a success formula?

REFERENCES
Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 68, 121, 131, 132.
Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 7, 8, 9.
Widtsoe, John A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapter XVII.

Point of View Is Important
Leona Fetzer Wintch

Work to Overcome Weariness

WHEN we are tired, it is often because we are tired of something, not from the work we are doing. Disorder and confusion always bring frustrations and fatigue. The core of weariness might even stem from boredom. These doldrums are usually self-inflicted. The world is full of exciting, creative things to do, if we will only look up and forward.

Each one must map out his own solution to overcome the tendency to fatigue by working systematically. We can all profit by routinizing many household tasks so that they are mechanically performed; some of these are immediate clearing of dishes, routine morning bedmaking and brushing up of rooms. Energies can then be reserved for more meaningful and enjoyable activities, such as learning a new skill or helping the children read.

Being well-organized, mechanizing routine tasks, taking short, but more frequent vacations, and finding new, creative work will give the mother of the home a more happy, healthful outlook which will be reflected in everyone around her. Best of all, she will be able to accomplish more and be less tired.

The Forward Look

THE flesh pots of yesterday were dearer to Lot's wife than the beauty of today or the adventure of tomorrow. For all of us, looking at the past should be a sometime thing, the past should never become a dwelling place. It is well to keep distant goals in view to give us the vision without which we perish, but the duty of this day, this hour, and even this moment is our only true concern.

This moment, this hour, and even this day can bristle with glad excitement if we listen for the magic in a loved one's voice, or see the pink and purple in the desert sage. The well of living water at which we drink is not yesterday's stagnant pool, nor tomorrow's anticipation. It is today's sweet flow that quenches human thirst. If we sing with our hearts, no rankling ashes of regret can chain us to Lot's wife and her pillar of salt.

796
