[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 58 | PDF Page 59]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 58 (PDF page 59) ---
JANUARY 1964

true Church. Much of the bigotry caused by the apostate's letters was allayed through this mission.

The revelation counseled these brethren to confound their enemies both in public and private, with the promise that their opponents would be shamed. (Ibid., verse 7.) It is worthy to note that when the Lord's servants are attacked, it is tantamount to attacking the Lord. (Ibid., verse 8.)

Preach the Gospel

The commandment to participate in debate was given to the Prophet because of the unusual circumstances noted above. The Lord, on the other hand, had counseled his servants to preach the first principles, to obtain the Spirit that it might convey the truth to the hearer, and thus make known the message of the dispensation. (D & C 33; 34; 42:12-17.)

An experience of the Prophet in October 1833, is an excellent example of the present counsel of the General Authorities that missionaries should not indulge in debate or argument, but they should preach the simple principles by the Spirit. While in Canada with Sidney Rigdon at the house of Freeman Nickerson's brother, the latter desired to match his Bible learning with that of the Prophet in an attempt to disprove Joseph Smith as a prophet. One night the opportunity came when Freeman Nickerson placed the Bible on the table and said, "There! Now, go to it!" The Prophet took up the challenge by telling the simple but powerful and convincing account of the restoration of the gospel. The Spirit of the Lord was so manifest in his testimony that opposition no longer remained. By the aid of Freeman's brother, meetings were held that resulted in fourteen baptisms, including the Nickerson who was determined to show the Prophet wrong. (EVANS, JOHN HENRY: Joseph Smith an American Prophet, pp. 86-88.)

Lack of Success in Opposition

The Lord's work was not destined to fail. As pointed out in an earlier lesson (Lesson 51, Relief Society Magazine, September 1963), the kingdom of God is on the earth in the form of the Church, and the Lord has planned that it shall never be destroyed nor given to another people, but it shall stand forever. (Daniel 2:44.) In Section 71, an aspect of this foreknown eventuality is given in verses 9 and 10:

Verily, thus saith the Lord unto you—there is no weapon that is formed against you shall prosper;

And if any man lift his voice against you he shall be confounded in mine own due time.

It is apparent that this assurance of defeat for those who lift their voices in opposition to the Prophet includes not only the experiences of the missionaries of 1831-32, but of any time. To speak against the Prophet of this dispensation is the same as warring against the Church which he established, and also against God.

Published opposition was not the only "weapon" used against the Prophet and the saints. Physical persecution has been a common means of attempting to thwart the purpose of the Lord. Despite the adversary's "weapons," the work of

58
