[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 222 | PDF Page 231]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 222 (PDF page 231) ---
MARCH 1964

said, as he took his place back on the seat beside Belle. "He's a good man with a wagon and can get more miles out of a team of horses in a day than anyone I have ever seen."

Belle remembered this when, after a particularly rainy time, Lon rode back to report that their wagon was stuck.

"What we need are your oxen," Lon stated.

Belle closed her lips and jumped to the ground to unhook the team from her own wagon.

"You can take them, of course. But I insist on driving them to get your load going again."

Belle led her oxen toward the wagon ahead. Lon mounted his horse and followed a short distance behind, possibly hoping to avoid the explosion he felt was imminent.

"Your oxen! Of all the teams in the wagon train why in thunder did Lon go for yours?" Josiah demanded.

"It's obvious, isn't it?" answered Belle. "Probably because my oxen are in better condition than any other animals on the trip. You could have kept your horses up better if you had bothered to pull them a little extra grass when the picking in camp proved to be a little sparse," said Belle.

"Pull grass for them! Nobody but a female would think of anything like that. Should I chew it for them, too?"

"If you like," said Belle amiably. "The poor things probably don't get it chewed up as well as an ox does, since they don't

chew their cud. You might be able to help quite a lot that way."

JOSIAH snorted. Lon rode up and drew his horse to a stop.

"I'm not having any female pull our outfit out of the mud, Lon. I'll stay here all summer first."

Lon was feeling the humor of the situation, and his face twitched but he did not smile.

"I'll drive old Buck and Barney, Belle. And I promise not to touch them with a whip. How about it?"

"Of course, Lon. I'll take your horse and wait back at my wagon. I guess you'll have to pull him out, though I wouldn't mind a bit if he did just what he said—stayed here stuck in the mud all summer."

Belle had only reached her own wagon when she turned to see Lon coming on the run.

"You'll have to drive them, Belle. They won't budge for me. I think they are waiting for the sound of your voice. Josiah's trying now, but I don't expect him to have much luck."

"Josiah! Lon, you promised!"

"I know I did, Belle, but I couldn't make them move and you know how he is with animals. He thought maybe he could persuade them."

"A couple of bally cows, if I ever saw any," cried Josiah as they ran up. "That's all they are. I wouldn't have a pair of oxen. You couldn't give them to me. I should think you'd have got a team of good horses before start-

222
