[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 416 | PDF Page 437]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 416 (PDF page 437) ---
JUNE 1964

The task of tying the back legs together, and carrying it to the Model T was laborious, but it was managed. "Open the car door, James, and we'll put it beside the other one," he said. The little hungry lamb instinctively tried to find some much-needed nourishment from the new companion, but it wasn't the right kind of sheep.

"Don't cry little sheeps," said Peter sympathetically, patting it on the head.

"Sheep," corrected Mama. "I don't want to hear you say 'sheeps' again, Peter!"

WE started for home. Papa and Mama were very quiet. James and Peter lay on their stomachs on the back seat watching the sheep, and trying to calm them. At the top of the hill we noticed the old ewe and her twin lambs, feeding contentedly by the side of the road. Papa slowed down wondering what to do, and a little fearful of Mama's wrath. He thought of all the good winter meat we could have just for the taking, and decided to stop.

"You couldn't possibly be thinking of taking more sheep?" Mama asked.

"Bess, listen to reason, will you? Those sheep will give us all the mutton we need this winter," Papa tried to explain.

"What would you suggest we do, get out and walk while you load up with sheep?" she retorted.

Papa was trying to figure out how he could load all those sheep. He had no intention of leaving them behind. The one with the broken leg would cause less trouble up front beside Mama, he decided. The old ewe and the little ones would settle down beside her. The real trouble began when Papa started to put the crippled sheep in the front.

"Lift up your skirts, Bess, and I'll set this cripple one in front," he said.

"You'll do no such thing, I'll walk first!" threatened Mama, and out of the Ford she got, tight shoes and all. Papa looked down at her feet and decided to take a chance. He took off his stiff collar and derby hat, and laid them on the front seat, and started for the sheep.

"Put a couple of rocks behind the back wheels, James, so she won't roll down hill. Addie, you take off your stockings, they're torn anyway, and you and Peter stand over there by the hill and don't let the sheep go past you."

Holding my skirts away from my stinging knees, I did as he bade. We were never permitted to talk back to Papa.

It was hard work trying to corner a sheep with two lambs, but we did. Papa grabbed the old ewe's two back legs so she couldn't kick, and tied them together with his black shoe strings. It took some doing to get those frightened sheep in Lizzie, and by the time we were through, our shoes were skinned, and our clothes torn and soiled.

The little orphan lamb again searched for nourishment from the old mother, but the two stronger ones pushed it away. This

416
