[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 873 | PDF Page 912]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 82% | Novel words: 10%]

--- PAGE 873 (PDF page 912) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

ings: (1) Morality (2) Law and Order (3) Health and Sanitation (4) Education.

Wherever the Church is organized, the Priesthood is present. There may be only a few elders or, in the well-developed stake, there may be many quorums of Melchizedek and Aaronic Priesthood holders. However few there may be, by being united among themselves and with the help of the Lord, there is no limit to the amount of good that can be accomplished. (We must remember that Jesus was very much alone, so far as man is concerned, when he started his mission.) The larger the group of Priesthood bearers, the greater the influence they can exert upon the social climate and environmental conditions of their community.

(1) Morality. Elder James E. Talmage said, "Religion without morality, professions of godliness without charity, Church-membership without adequate responsibility as to individual conduct in daily life, are but as sounding brass and tinkling cymbals" (The Articles of Faith, page 429).

Moral is "characterized by excellence in what pertains to practice or conduct; right or proper; dealing or concerned with establishing principles of right and wrong in behavior" (Webster's Dictionary). True virtue is recognizing the right and the wrong and choosing the right. Morality is involved in all the decisions we make where right and wrong are involved.

The meaning of right is established by the values of the group. As a Church, we have had revealed the principles of life and salvation as set forth by the Creator himself, and we have established our value system on truth as revealed by the divine influence. From these values, our standard of morality has been developed. It is a single standard and expecting the same high performance of all members.

The moral standard of the Church encourages honesty, honor, integrity, chastity, and all things that would produce good conduct and high standards of behavior in all human relations.

The members of the Priesthood quorums should be the leaders in the development of, and the maintenance of these values in their contacts with their own families and with every member of the community. There is no immoral act that does not have a negative influence upon the actor. There are those who attempt to justify and excuse their deviation from the moral standard on the basis of a "peculiar situation" or a "current philosophy" among men. Any excuse is rationalization and has its weakening effect upon character. Priesthood quorums can be a major factor in strengthening and supporting the moral values of the Church.

(2) Health and Sanitation. Every Priesthood quorum should be interested in the conditions of sanitation and health in their community. There is good evidence to support the statement that as sewer systems have been developed in cities, communicable diseases have decreased. A contaminated water supply could be the source of infection for other life-taking diseases.

Science has provided immunization for many diseases, among

573
