[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 247 | PDF Page 260]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 247 (PDF page 260) ---
EXALTING THE POOR

Sickness — This may be of a temporary nature or of long duration. It is here that the visiting of the sick by the Relief Society is so urgent. First, we should be diligent to discover the conditions of the needy and, second, give the necessary assistance dictated by the circumstances.

Failure to manage economic affairs — In our efforts to exalt the poor, we must teach the management of financial affairs. Abraham Lincoln gave us a key when he said:

You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift.
You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong.
You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich.
You cannot establish sound security on borrowed money.
You cannot escape trouble by spending more than you earn.
You cannot build character by taking away a man's initiative and independence.
You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should have done for themselves.

I should think that the Relief Society can do much good in training the mothers in the proper handling of money — helping them to set up a budget and to teach the habits of thrift and home management.

Indeed, a concentrated effort should be made in this respect, for many of our people have little understanding of the principle of budgeting and making accounts.

Benjamin Franklin told of the effectiveness of this virtue. He said:

In 1733 I sent one of my journeymen to Charleston, South Carolina, where a printer was wanting. I furnished him with a press and letters,

on an agreement of partnership by which I was to receive one third of the profits of the business, paying one third of the expense. He was a man of learning and honest but ignorant of the matters of account, and tho' he sometimes made me remittance, I could get no account from him. nor any satisfactory state of our partnership while he lived. On his decease the business was continued by his widow, who being born and bred in Holland, where as I have been informed, the knowledge of accounts makes part of a female education, she not only sent me as clear a statement as she could find of the transactions past, but continued to account with greatest regularity and exactness every quarter afterwards, and managed the business with such success that she not only brought up respectably a family of children, but at the expiration of the time was able to purchase of me the printing house and established her son in it.

Sisters, the bishops have been charged by the Lord with the responsibility of managing the affairs of the poor — they need your help to avoid waste, to teach mothers to operate their homes on a budget, not to overextend themselves financially, learn to live simply, overcome extravagant habits, and avoid unnecessary debt.

Idleness — This problem is, no doubt, caused by environment and, although it has been stated, "He that is idle shall not eat the bread . . . of the laborer," it does not relieve us of the responsibility to help, but rather gives us a challenge to teach the idler the blessings of labor that he may enjoy the virtue of industry. Once having been taught this, it will add greatly to his character.

Lack of Education — Today, one of the serious problems is the lack of training and education of those unemployed. In this

247
