[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 17 | PDF Page 18]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 17 (PDF page 18) ---
MOMENT OF TRUST

paid him a dollar bill and forty cents. Then she had gone into the house, carried her handbag to the bedroom. Then Sister Landley had telephoned to ask the name of the poem that the Stake Relief Society president had read at the monthly leadership meeting.

Donna could see herself carrying the bag into the hallway, placing it on the table, and taking out the slip of paper on which she had written the name and author of the poem. She had left the bag there while she had checked a book of poems in the library to see if she had that particular poem. The purse was still on the hallway table until she left this noon. She thought, Bud would have seen it when he telephoned Freddie. The contents were tumbled about, the money quite visible in the transparent plastic coin purse.

But Bud would never steal from me! She quickly pushed the thought out of her mind, horrified at such disloyalty.

But where was the coin purse! Her handbag was one of the new, large carry-all type, with straps, open at the top. Her arms had been loaded with bundles. Maybe after she paid the cleaner she had thought she was dropping the coin purse into her handbag, but instead had dropped it on the ground.

She hurried from the ward to her home, and once there she looked carefully from the curb to the front steps but found nothing. And then, as she took her door key out of her handbag, she remembered seeing the plastic coin purse in her handbag when she had gone through the same motions the day before.

Maybe, absent-mindedly, once she was in the house, she had put the purse somewhere else. She began a thorough search through drawers, coat pockets, jackets, cupboards, the linen closet.

She pushed back her dark hair with a trembling hand. Maybe her memory was playing tricks. She could have thought she put the coin purse in her bag, but instead had left it at Carter's. She could even have paid the cleaner with loose change from the bottom of her handbag.

She hurried out and walked the half block to the store. Mrs. Carter distinctly remembered her putting the coin purse in her bag. It had been a crazy hope. She had known all the time she had paid the cleaner with loose change from the coin purse in her handbag.

She walked slowly home. Candy Thompson came towards her. Candy was so young and pretty with her glossy blond hair and blue eyes. "Mrs. Gardner," she said gaily, "will you please tell Bud to call for me at seven tonight? We're going to double date with Betty and Archie."

"I'll tell him, Candy." Donna smiled stiffly and hurried home, afraid she was going to burst into tears, remembering Bud saying

17
