[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 128 | PDF Page 133]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 128 (PDF page 133) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

you will send it to the McDougal Contest."

With a little sigh, Luana pressed her head against his shoulder. She told him about Margaret and her painting, and how she and Tutu had heard her heartbreaking talk with Emma Lu. Then she told him how the children were willing to sacrifice for each other, and she felt that she should sacrifice for Margaret because she truly loved her.

"I want to help her, darling. So I have decided not to send my painting to the contest. Now, I can really say that I hope she wins it."

Ben's hands were firm on her shoulders as he turned her so that his wise, unflinching eyes looked steadily into hers.

"You have your values crossed, my darling," he said. "This sounds like a very noble sacrifice on your part, but I do not approve of it. No one should sacrifice his ability to create. We believe in using and making the best of our God-given talents. You should not sacrifice it for Margaret or anyone else. I know you love your brother and his wife, and that you are deeply compassionate because they have no children. I am, too. But there is always the danger that a sacrifice of the kind you suggest will not only destroy your own efforts to be successful, but it might weaken the very person you are trying to help. You have done a magnificent job — I say you should enter it in the contest."

His eyes crinkled. "It might be that neither of you will win. Who knows? The important thing is to realize that neither your real happiness nor Margaret's depends on that contest. There are better ways for you to help Margaret. If you keep your painting out of the contest, you might go through life thinking you could have won. You might get a complex about it. Margaret has won many contests. That isn't what she really needs. Tutu has found the right way to make her help herself. A child to care for and sacrifice for is what she and Tom really need. Let's hope they take the little boy."

Luana met her husband's eyes in a long, lingering look of love and understanding. Ben was positive and strong, but full of gentleness.

"You are right," she said. "I will mail my painting tomorrow."

"You should," he said. "That painting is a miracle."

Luana was smiling as her lips touched his cheek.

"A miracle," she whispered. "I have a greater miracle to tell you about. The greatest miracle in the world. Another baby — for us."

She felt him breathe deeply, and his hand smoothed her dark hair.

"My wife," he said, tenderly, "my Luana. Bless you, my darling. I feel humble and yet so proud. I could touch the stars."

"I know," she murmured. "We have always touched the stars — together."

128
