[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 856 | PDF Page 895]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 856 (PDF page 895) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

gather the Lord's people as predicted by the prophets. Moreover, the gathering place at that time, and also in the future, is the city of New Jerusalem where the saints will stand in the last days. (Verses 1-2.) A promise is made concerning the temple which will be erected in that city located in the western boundaries of the State of Missouri, the place already dedicated by the Prophet. In this prediction, the Lord says that the temple upon which his glory would rest would be reared in this generation. (Verses 3-5.)

Inasmuch as that temple has not been built within an hundred years of 1832, some members of the Church have wondered about the length of a generation. Although a generation, under certain conditions, is mentioned in The Book of Mormon as an hundred years (Helaman 13:8-11), the term, under other conditions, refers to an indefinite period. For example, Jesus said that it was an evil and adulterous generation that sought after a sign (Matt. 12:39), and in our dispensation the Lord said that "this generation shall have my word through you" (Joseph Smith) (D&C 5:10). From these examples, it is clear that the dispensation of the fulness of times is considered a generation, for the people of our time are still receiving the word of the Lord in the revelations received through Joseph Smith. There is no way of determining the number of years meant in Section 84, verses 4 and 5. There are two things to be known, however. First, that the Lord has said through his Prophet that the

temple will be built in this generation, and second, that from the time this announcement was made, the leaders of the Church have never departed from the Lord's intention.

PRIESTHOOD GENEALOGY

This revelation dealing with Priesthood appropriately begins with information about the building of the temple. The temple is the sanctuary where the highest ordinances and blessings of the Priesthood are received. (D&C 124:25-42.) Next, we find the genealogy of the Priesthood as held by Moses. (Ibid., 84:6-16.) The Priesthood is eternal and continues in the true Church. (Verse 17.)

THE KNOWLEDGE OF GOD

After referring to the Lesser or Aaronic Priesthood as a part of the Melchizedek Priesthood, the powers of the Higher Priesthood are stated in this way:

And this greater priesthood administereth the gospel and holdeth the key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the key of the knowledge of God. Therefore, in the ordinance thereof, the power of godliness is manifest. And without the ordinances thereof, and the authority of the priesthood, the power of godliness is not manifest unto men in the flesh;

For without this no man can see the face of God, even the Father, and live (D&C 84:19-22).

The Melchizedek Priesthood holds the key to all the spiritual blessings of the gospel. The knowledge of God and the true plan of salvation is possible only through the divine means which the Lord has established. Life

856
