[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 250 | PDF Page 263]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 250 (PDF page 263) ---
Marjorie C. Pingree Appointed to the General Board

Elizabeth B. Winters
Member,
General Board of Relief Society

MARJORIE Cannon Pingree was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on January 15, 1964. She was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a daughter of Lewis M. Cannon (son of Angus M. Cannon, who served as president of Salt Lake Stake for twenty-eight years) and Mary Alice Cannon, daughter of George Q. Cannon. Her mother died when she was five years old, and her father, who had served as a bishop for twenty-two years, died when Marjorie was in college.

Mrs. Pingree was educated in the Salt Lake City schools, was graduated from the University of Utah, and taught school for three years. She has served in many positions of leadership in the Church, including ward Primary president; a member of the Ensign Stake Primary Board; YWMIA teacher and counselor in her ward; president of Ensign Second Ward Relief Society; literature class leader in her ward. Literature has always held special interest for her.

In 1928 Marjorie Cannon and J. Fred Pingree were married in the Salt Lake temple. Brother Pingree is a Salt Lake City business man. He has served as Ensign Stake clerk and has been a member of the stake High Council for fifteen years. The Pingrees have four children: Patricia (Mrs. Vernon B. Romney), who served as a stake missionary in Washington, D.C., and is now a member of the General Board of the Primary Association; J. Fred, Jr., who served as a missionary in Central America; George C., who served in the New England Mission, and is now a medical doctor with the armed forces in France; John C., who served a mission in Argentina. All of the sons were called as counselors to their respective mission presidents. The daughter and sons, like their parents, are all graduates of the University of Utah. She has nine grandchildren.

Sister Pingree brings to the General Board her outstanding ability, experience, a gracious personality, devotion to the Church, and a willingness to serve.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

250
