[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 91 | PDF Page 96]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 83% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 91 (PDF page 96) ---
Lenore C. Gundersen
Appointed
to General Board

Fawn H. Sharp
Member, General Board
of Relief Society

LENORE C. Gundersen was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society, December 5, 1963. She exemplifies, in her everyday living, the sterling qualities of her pioneer ancestors — thrift, love, patience, dependability, courage, and a dedication to family and Church.

Sister Gundersen is the eighth child of Virginia Burton Cutler and Ralph Cutler. Lenore's father and mother were active Church members, maintaining a home in which the Priesthood was always honored. Lenore states that her mother, now eighty-five years of age, has always been an inspiration to her.

Lenore attended business college and served as secretary to Sister Clarissa A. Beesley of the Y.W.M.I.A. for three and one-half years. She married Joseph A. Gundersen, November 1, 1934, in the Salt Lake Temple. They have five children, three girls and two boys, and six grandchildren. They are as follows: Joan (Mrs. Neil B. Van Leeuwen), theology teacher in the Relief Society and counselor in the district presidency of the Y.W.M.I.A. in Quantico, Virginia; Virginia, (Mrs. Robert I. Halgrim), president of the Y.W.M.I.A. in Carlo, Montana, and a Seminary teacher; Alton Gundersen, Salt Lake City, active in the Priesthood; Thomas C. Gundersen, a student, who filled a mission while with his parents in Norway; Retta Jean Gundersen, a student in high school.

Lenore has had the following Church assignments, among others: teacher in Sunday School; ward and stake president of Y.W.M.I.A.; ward Relief Society president, and counselor and president in the Valley View Stake Relief Society.

She accompanied her husband to Norway when President Gundersen was called to preside over the Norwegian Mission. They have recently returned from this assignment. While in the mission she served as president of the mission Relief Societies.

Lenore Gundersen not only brings to the General Board of the Relief Society her own humble, sweet spirit, charming personality, and dedication, but also great qualities of leadership that will benefit all of the sisters in the Church.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

91
