[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 485 | PDF Page 509]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 485 (PDF page 509) ---
JULY 1964

What of the women in the Mormon pioneering experience? What role did they play? Whether by ox team or handcart, the women assumed their share of the burdens of the trail, often walking part or all of the way. My own grandmother walked about two-thirds of the distance across the plains, carrying her infant son (my father) in a Paisley shawl tied firmly around her waist, while helping the boys "drive the loose stock they were bringing with them."

Once in the valley, the role of the women was of major importance. All facets of their natures were challenged by the many and stern realities of pioneering life. They were not only wives and the bearers of children, but they assisted materially in the economy of the struggling settlements. They carried out, collectively, many special assignments given them by President Brigham Young and immediately succeeding Church Presidents.

All who are familiar with the fascinating story of Relief Society through the years, know of its cooperative efforts in promoting home industry that the communities might become as self-sustaining as possible. Sericulture, cooperative merchandising of articles made locally by the women, the gleaning and storing of wheat — all assigned projects — are evidence that pioneer Mormon women were considered a real factor in the temporal as well as the spiritual development of the Church. The various angles of the silk-culture venture, and the many ways by which that once more profitable assignment of gathering and storing wheat was

accomplished, constitute some of the most interesting chapters in the history of Relief Society.

But it is not these cooperative efforts, only, valuable as they were to community and the Church, that warm my heart and kindle my loyalty. I am thinking of them, today, in their more individual and intimate role of pioneer wife, pioneer mother, and pioneer neighbor.

They possessed the ability to evaluate life experiences objectively, and to cut irrelevance away. Things of secondary importance needed to wait until primary needs were met. Food, shelter, and clothing were important for all—for a neighbor as well as for oneself. And thus a sharing, one with another, and a neighborly watchcare, were nourished in the community. I think of the woman who took a neighbor's baby, nursing it with her own child for many weeks, until the stricken mother was well enough again to care for her own child. I think of the dried fruit, the clothing, and the many loaves of bread willingly shared with neighbors who were in greater need.

In spite of the wisdom and need to satisfy physical demands first, our pioneer women did not overlook the need for beauty. They could not. Inherent in women's nature is the desire to beautify home surroundings. Moreover, those pioneer women were refined, cultured women. Many of them had come from well-established homes and were familiar with the refining influence of the arts. They brought bits of beauty with them from faraway places, carefully protected

486
