[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 777 | PDF Page 812]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 777 (PDF page 812) ---
Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with short hair holding a book and gesturing with her hand]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey

Lesson 60 — Individual Responsibility as a Member and Missionary

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 79, 80, 81, and 82)

For First Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To show individual missionary responsibility and
that the Lord is bound when you do as he says.

MISSIONARY CALLING

During the month of March 1832, revelations were received calling three elders into missionary service. (Sections 79 and 80.) Sometimes missionary calls were to specific localities, as in the case of Jared Carter who was called to serve in the eastern countries [States], while others were given a more general area of proselyting. Brothers Stephen Burnett and Eden Smith were told to go to any of the directions of the compass and labor. (D&C 80: 1-3.)

There are few callings in the Church that can compare with the missionary call. It provides opportunities to fulfill one's obligation to represent the Lord before the world; to build up Zion by increasing her citizens; to gain a better understanding of gospel fundamentals; and, at the same time, provides a foundation for a life of service at home.

The missionary who tries to honor his missionary call finds that the Lord will sustain him in his labors if he will do his part. The obtaining of the spirit of one's calling will bring the powers of the Holy Ghost to one's assistance. President John Taylor calls our attention to the missionary's calling in the following passage:

... It is for us to magnify our calling and honor our God in any and every position that we may be called upon to fill. ... I would say that this Priesthood is not for the honor of man, not for his exaltation alone; but it is imparted to man in order that he may be made the medium of salvation to others. ... Talking of the Elder, why he is a herald of salvation; he is a legate of the skies; he is commissioned of the great Jehovah to bear a message to the nations of the earth, and God has promised to

777
