[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 267 | PDF Page 280]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 267 (PDF page 280) ---
MORE BLESSED TO RECEIVE

odd parcels of laundry, Judy offering to plant my garden. You can't understand how I hate taking."

"You've always given." He drew the finished curtains from her. "Sometimes it's more blessed to receive, my dear."

THERE was a babble of young voices outside, and Susan turned as the door burst open, to admit Jane and Tony, as alike as two peas in a pod.

"I'm ok, Grannie," they piped, "look what we've brought you — flowers."

Brown earth and green stains smeared the chubby knees of the twins, and in their dusty warm hands they held tightly bundled dandelion heads.

"To put in Noddy's cart," explained Jane, breathlessly. Waving her fistful of flashy gold, she ran to the window sill, where Noddy the donkey stood in happiness between the chintz curtains. Excitedly she grabbed. There was a small gasp from Susan and a crash as the ornament hit a chair. The donkey lay on his side on the carpet his cart broken away from him.

At the sight of grannie's face, Jane's round cheeks flushed and her brown eyes clouded. "I didn't mean to break Noddy, Grannie. I only wanted to put loose flowers in his cart. Please don't be cross. I couldn't help it."

Tony put one grubby arm around his sister's shoulders. "They can mend it," he said with male nonchalance. "Mummy's got some glue that can stick anything."

Susan's look rested on them, two hot, tired little scraps, with

their carefully picked gifts still clutched against their panting chests.

Douglas thought he had never seen anything more graceful than the swift droop of his wife's body to receive those gifts. She buried her face in the yellow weeds, crying out how beautiful they were.

"I'll put them in the little green bowl — see? I'll put some water in it. And the donkey can be mended quite easily." She went out, the children dancing around her, their shrill delight filling the house.

BUT after her daughter had taken her little ones home, Susan inspected Noddy unhappily.

"It won't show, Susan," her husband said. "It broke at the right part, luckily."

"Remember buying this little fellow?" Her voice quivered. "The first present you ever gave me?" She fingered the small animal lovingly. "All through the years, I've grown dwarf plants in a rockery, to supply his cart. I've never thought of him as a china figure, but a symbol. A reminder of the happiness we've shared. Now, he is patched up — he'll never be the same." Her face crumpled. "Like me — just like me!" The tears she had held back for so long flowed unheeded. She buried her face in her hands and sobbed.

Douglas picked her up bodily, holding her close, waiting until she was calm enough to listen to him. "You make it difficult for us, darling. We all love you and want to help. We want you to get better."

"Better for what? If I can't do the things I've always done,

267
