[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 848 | PDF Page 887]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 848 (PDF page 887) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

Puget Sound Stake (Washington) Conducts "Friendship Fair"
May 22, 1964

This display of lovely quilts and other articles of handicraft from the Bremerton Second Ward, is representative of the many booths and displays which made this "Fair" an outstanding event, long to be remembered in Puget Sound Stake.

Ethel B. Whiting, President, Puget Sound Stake Relief Society, reports: "We sent out and personally distributed 1,000 invitations, not just in Tacoma, but all over the stake, with the help of the presidents and visiting teachers. We had a fifty-minute program at one o'clock in the afternoon, and repeated it at seven o'clock in the evening, with a member of the stake presidency speaking at both programs. A group of fifty Singing Mothers from six wards sang 'Why a Singing Mother Sings' and 'Beside Still Waters.' A panel of four sisters described Relief Society in an appealing and instructive way by means of a question and answer demonstration. The dramatization was written by Violet Nerdin, stake social science class leader.

"The cultural hall was beautifully decorated with ferns and spring flowers to represent a garden path. The booths were arranged around the hall, and work displays were placed on tables on the stage, with others below the stage. Two sisters demonstrated cake making at one table, and two more showed how to make gifts out of felt from simple patterns. Beautiful original oil paintings and pastels brought many comments. The handwork was varied and outstanding. In the patio, small tables, covered with blue and gold cloths, were grouped. Two large serving tables were arranged most attractively with punch, cookies, open-faced sandwiches, and fruit breads. There were about 350 in attendance."

Mount Graham Stake, Lordsburg Ward (New Mexico) Relief Society Honors First Executive Officers, May 5, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Lillie May Malone, First Counselor; Mabel A. Lines, President; Edith B. Bradberry, Second Counselor; Fannie A. Hill, Secretary-Treasurer.

Back row, standing, left to right, present officers: Helen G. Richins, First Counselor; Betty Joe B. Farnsworth, President; Maxene R. Jones, Second Counselor.

Sister Hill, in the front row, is presently serving as secretary-treasurer. Millie Kelly, President, Mount Graham Stake Relief Society, reports: "This special event honored the first executive officers and also commemorated the thirty-ninth birthday of the Lordsburg Relief Society, which was organized May 5, 1925. This was the first time these four sisters had been together since March 1926. What a wonderful reunion!

"The program, including a short history of the time these four women served together, was presented by Ruth B. Barnes of Safford, Arizona. A song 'Teach Me, Lord,' was beautifully rendered by the Singing Mothers, and a poem composed by Bishop Allen A. Hill was read by him. A skit 'Ye Are on the Lord's Errand' was presented by Helen G. Richins, Grace T. Wright, Louise K. Lytle, Lola D. Richardson, June H. Hill, Elna M. Pace, with Ora P. Nelson at the piano.

"Another highlight of the evening was the reviewing of a book on the history of the Lordsburg Relief Society since its organization, complete with pictures of every executive officer, and all other officers and class leaders, except eleven. Several group pictures were also shown. The material was collected and compiled by Fannie A. Hill. Stake Relief Society President Millie Kelly and three other members of the board were present. Refreshments of dainty homemade cookies, decorated mints, frozen banana punch, and nuts were served."

848
