[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 889 | PDF Page 932]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 889 (PDF page 932) ---
EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

Not only the mother, but the entire influence of home also influences society. Indeed, home is the foundation of civilized society. Words uttered and the doctrines taught around the fireside are the influences that shape the destinies of empires. . . .

Of all human influences those of home are the most far-reaching in their results. . . .

"There are many men who owe their honor, their integrity, and their manhood to the influence of pure minded sisters" (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1956, pp. 805, 806).

Now as members of this superior organization and as mothers in Israel, as wives and those who are neither wives nor mothers but members of the families which make up the community, you have a marvelous opportunity and a heavy responsibility of making the family and community life exemplary in every way.

Every daily paper and magazine we pick up today seems to carry amazing and startling reports of juvenile delinquency, vandalism, hooliganism, and youth riots, etc. The causes or contributing factors are all too numerous and are listed as follows: too much money, too much leisure time, boredom, unrest, lack of responsibility, etc. But the home environments are listed as the principal contributing cause.

One of the reports of the White House Conference for Children and Youth points out that among the principal contributing causes of crime and delinquency in youth are faulty family relationships and unwholesome home environment. The report further emphasizes the fact that the bad example of adults is one of the worst contributing causes of drinking, dishonesty, and delinquency.

J. Edgar Hoover places great emphasis on the influence of the home and appeals to parents to have a high religious and moral standard of living. Just the other day I read an article, entitled, "Wild Youth: a World-wide Problem," by Geoffrey Lucy. He listed startling examples of what is going on in different parts of the world.

He said that in France, four fifteen-year-old girls wrote statements on separate sheets of paper, saying that one would commit suicide, another would steal, the third be good, and the fourth take a lover. The girls then drew lots, and a few days later, each one carried out the "promise" she had drawn.

In Britain last spring, this writer reported, eight hundred "rowdies" and four hundred of their girl friends journeyed to Clacton on scooters and motorcycles and indulged in a three-day riot which scandalized the country.

The author related the incident of a seventeen-year-old boy in Brazil who drove his car at full speed through traffic lights in Rio de Janeiro just to see what would happen. He and his fifteen-year-old girl friend were killed, as well as another motorist who was involved in the collision.

The author says that the greatest amount of crime, vandalism, and all kinds of delinquency is found in large cities, and, particularly, in countries where they are most prosperous. He points out that they have much money, but they seem to have neither idealism nor a desire to learn. They are characteristically aimless except when they are

889
