[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 607 | PDF Page 634]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 607 (PDF page 634) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

would ever feel deep love for him.

Selena, herself, found a measure of comfort in knowing that she had not left the Church, as Alfred had planned for her to do. There was a great strength which she drew from Lon.

But there were to be many, many times, when she would hate herself for her own weakness; for her inability to return the love she received from Lon; for the hurt she caused him to feel; for his unceasing goodness to her. She recognized all of these, and yet remained powerless to act as she would have done, had she no memory of a burial in the cemetery at Winter Quarters.

Negotiations were finally completed, and then came the day when the Mormons moved onto the Rancho del San Bernardino. The originally planned 30,000 acres proved to be in reality 35,509. The purchase price of $70,000 changed also, to $77,500, yet it was a day of great rejoicing when the settlers were at last on their own land. One square mile was set aside as the site for the town.

"We will pattern it after the City of the Great Salt Lake," Brother Rich declared, "with a temple block in the center of the city."

Now the work began in earnest. Homes must be built, land cleared and plowed, and fences built. The fences intrigued Belle. "I've never seen anything like it, Josiah," she said. "Live willow posts, driven in the ground, and then they say that the posts will continue growing to form a hedge-like fence around the land."

It was on an afternoon when they were nearing completion of the first section of the fence, and Josiah had gone for more posts, that Belle felt her first pain. She simply stood her axe by the fence, asked Lon to tell Josiah she had gone to the wagon, and walked calmly toward it.

Belle had always handled everything quickly and efficiently, and with as little fuss as possible. She had no intention of doing otherwise now. She knew she must get Sister Tenny and was glad that it wasn't far. The pains were becoming a bit more bothersome. Josiah returned with the posts, and by the time the fence was finished the baby had arrived. Belle, as usual, worked things out well on schedule.

Only then, according to Belle's wishes, did Sister Tenny call to Josiah, "Come and see your son," after walking some distance to the end of the section of fence.

Josiah's face paled.
"Lon! You said . . ." Josiah turned toward his friend.

"I said all she told me, Josiah. She never once mentioned that she was leaving to have the baby."

Josiah dropped his axe and ran, but at the wagon box he stopped and climbed in carefully, moving to the bed where Belle lay, cheerful and smiling.

"Belle! Why didn't you say something? Why didn't you call me?"

"Land sakes, Josiah. You'd have become excited as you are now, and you never would have finished the fence today."

607
