[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 943 | PDF Page 986]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 943 (PDF page 986) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

THE FUNCTION OF THE FAMILY

From personal experience, we know that the newborn child is almost completely helpless. It can neither speak nor walk. It is wholly dependent upon the assistance of others even to survive. In some cultures, society demands that families give their children certain necessary care. If such is not given, some states assume the right to take children from their families and give them to those who can and will provide that care.

Beyond the giving of essential physical care, parents and family members contribute to the development of a child by example and by conscious teaching. Important as schools have been and are, the home remains the primary educational institution. It is in the home that the child first learns that which he must do to obtain his desired goals or that certain kinds of behavior will bring satisfaction or disapproval. Thus the child becomes oriented within the family, and this socialization enables him to develop behavior patterns which will make him an acceptable member of that larger world beyond the circle of the home.

If the family is the basic unit of a given culture, then the home is in a position to exert a material influence upon that culture. The relationship between them is a complex one, each exerting an influence upon the other. It is often said that the strength of a nation is no greater than the strength of its individual homes. We may also say that the morality of a community is the result of the morality of its individual

homes. This being so, what a great responsibility rests upon families — upon the parents of those individual families!

THE DIVINE AND ETERNAL STATUS OF THE FAMILY

How blessed we are, as Latter-day Saints, to know that the family organization has eternal status; that in the divine plan of existence, the family occupies a central position. "Our very concept of heaven itself," wrote Elder Stephen L Richards, "is little more than the projection of the home into eternity."

What a glad tiding this is! Surely countless thousands of Christian men and women have yearned and prayed for a reunion with their parents and their children in the life hereafter.

The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches that our families will have continuity within the celestial kingdom of heaven provided we fulfill the requirements upon which this great blessing is predicated. This truth leads us to consider seriously the specific requirements which must be met in mortal life. Later lessons will emphasize the principles of the gospel which must be carried out by the parents and in the home, if this eternal blessing is to be realized.

In order to understand the function of the family in fulfilling the divine purpose, it may be helpful to review briefly such phases of our existence as are known to us through revelation. "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man," are the words of the Creator, found in Moses 1:39.

943
