[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 309 | PDF Page 322]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 309 (PDF page 322) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

him. "Do you want to marry Selena?"

Lon looked at her, startled. "Don't joke with me, Belle. Not about that."

"I'm not joking, Lon. I'm asking you, serious. Do you want to marry my sister?"

"Belle!" For a moment there was hope and happiness in Lon's eyes. "She didn't. . . ." Then he stopped. The hope had faded. "No, of course, she didn't say anything. For a moment I. . . ." Lon stopped, embarrassed.

"I know what you hoped. I have hoped so, too," said Belle, kindly. "But we've got to do something, Lon. There's a young man in camp who keeps asking Josiah all sorts of questions about her. He was at our campfire last night and the night before. He stayed for hours last night, claiming he had to dry out his boots. I didn't catch on then, not until Josiah told me what had been happening whenever the young man gets around him. It's always something about Selena. She's so at loose ends, Lon. She isn't herself, and if he decided to ask her to marry him, I'm afraid she would do it. Why don't you ask her first, Lon?"

"I want to, Belle. You know I do. I'd have asked her long before this except for one little detail. Selena doesn't love me."

Belle placed a hand on Lon's arm. She felt the muscles, hard and tight under her fingers.

"She doesn't love him either, Lon. But when he asks her to marry him Selena will say yes."

(To be continued)

---

Deserted Farm House

Annie Atkin Tanner

Alone it stands beside the mauve and fluted hills,
Hot sun rays scorch its aging roof
And winter rains wash off the summer dust.
A muted wind swings the loosened shutters
And brushes on the darkened window-panes.

Tall junipers shake their azure berries
Like warning bells at night.
Straight and strong as sentinels
They guard the quiet rooms,
Which once were filled with laughter.

No more a yellow light shines on a winding path
To guide a family home.
No more a song is heard.
All is loneliness
Beside the mauve and fluted hills.

309
