[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 52 | PDF Page 53]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 52 (PDF page 53) ---
JANUARY 1964

Napa Stake (California) Relief Society Presents "Singing Mothers' Night"
May 17, 1963

Front row, left to right: Florence Williams, chorister; Thurza Foster, organist; Karen Murdock, soprano soloist; Marjorie Remington, pianist.
Second row from the back, left to right: Sarah Neerings, Education Counselor; Dorothy Blaisdell, President, Napa State Relief Society.
The program consisted of a number of offerings by the Singing Mothers, as well as vocal solos and piano solos. The presentation was beautifully rendered and very well received. Singers participating represented the following wards: Fairfield, Napa, Napa Second, Vallejo, Vallejo Second, and Vacaville.

Pocatello Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference
May 5, 1963

Marilyn Rishton, chorister, stands at the right on the front row, and Mary Merkeley, accompanist, stands at the left on the front row.
Emily S. Romig, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "This group of fifty-three Singing Mothers presented the music for the morning session of the stake quarterly conference. The Church Authorities present, along with Pocatello Stake President Roland K. Hart, praised the Singing Mothers for their lovely appearance, and for their singing. We are particularly proud of the many young mothers in this group. This was the first conference in our new stake and ward building. It was less than a year ago when ground was broken for this building. Sister Lila Walch attended the conference as the representative of the General Board of Relief Society."

Montpelier Stake (Idaho) Honors Ward Officers and Class Leaders at Leadership Meeting
May 1963

Front row, seated, left to right: ward presidents: Elma Boehme, Geneva; Elda Folmer, Montpelier Second Ward; Ora Bunneson, Montpelier Fifth Ward; Helen Lindsay, Dingle Ward; Zora Peterson, Montpelier Third Ward; Naomi Bacon, Georgetown Ward.
The other sisters in the picture are counselors, secretaries, and other officers and class leaders.
June R. Shepherd, President, Montpelier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Ward and class leaders who attained a record of 100 per cent attendance at stake leadership meetings during the year were honored by Montpelier Stake Relief Society at the closing meeting. Each sister was presented with a lovely corsage made by Evelyn Kunz, stake work meeting leader. Montpelier Fifth Ward Relief Society also received special honors for having eighty-five per cent of their officers and class leaders in attendance at leadership meetings all during the year, and also for having had a record of perfect attendance of executive officers. This ward was presented with the book The Mormon Story for their library."

52
