[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 126 | PDF Page 131]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 126 (PDF page 131) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

Tutu. "Well — yes. Yes, I would, Tutu."

"There is a little boy there I want you to see," Tutu went on, casually. "You are such a fine artist, I am sure you will appreciate him. He is a three-year-old Haole boy, and he has the most beautifully formed face I have ever seen. The bone structure is perfect. His eyes have an expression no one can forget. A portrait of him could be a masterpiece, Margaret."

"Oh, I'd love to see him," Margaret said. "I've been searching for a subject for a portrait."

"He is an orphan," Tutu explained. "Some of his relatives have taken care of him since his parents were killed, fishing on the shark coast."

"His name is Joa," Benjy said. "Tutu says he can sing already."

Luana pretended to eat her tart. She knew Tutu was trying to help Margaret, by interesting her in little Joa. Luana's heart quickened. Some way, somehow, she, too, must help Margaret.

After family prayers together, Luana went from one room to another, as she always did, to say goodnight to each of her children.

Pixie was seated at her cretonne-skirted dressing table brushing her short, clipped hair.

"It's growing, Mama, look — I like it cut off this way — it's almost curly."

"It is!" Luana agreed. "You're so cute with it short."

Pixie's face sobered. "Mama — have you noticed — my teeth are straighter? I don't need braces — really. Remember what Dr. Williamson said when you first took me to him — that once in a blue moon teeth like mine adjust themselves? Maybe I've found the blue moon — anyway I'm not afraid to smile anymore."

Luana looked at her quizzically. Her teeth were straighter — almost pretty when she smiled.

"All the girls like my hair," Pixie went on. "I'm glad now that Daddy made me cut it off, and had it fixed my natural color."

"I'm glad, too," Luana murmured, kissing her fresh young cheek. "Sweet dreams, dear."

Benjy and Bo, in their twin beds, were whispering together as she entered their room.

"Hello!" Benjy said, lifting his face for her kiss. "Bo says that now we're thirteen we should earn money after school, so we can help Phil on his mission. We could work in the pine cannery."

Luana sat down beside Bo. She always tried to share her attention equally between them, but Benjy was more openly demonstrative than Bo. Kisses to Benjy were as natural as breathing, but they were very special to Bo.

"Phil would appreciate that," she said. "Then, when it's your turn for a mission, he can help you. But your Daddy must be the one to decide what jobs would be best. Remember you have your daily work to do for him here, on the plantation."

"Sure," Bo agreed. "Our Daddy knows about everything."

Luana nodded. "He knows

126
