[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 950 | PDF Page 993]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 950 (PDF page 993) ---
DECEMBER 1964

esty and justice and freedom and purity so important that they must remain unviolated at any cost. It is also important to remember that if principles are sacrificed in small situations, they will be so weakened that they will not be strong enough to stand in big situations. Such a reminder, sharply given by this story, should make any thoughtful reader forever after a little more sensitive in conscience when confronted with a situation where principle is involved.

Comments on "Quality"

John Galsworthy (1867-1933), English author of "Quality," is principally known as a novelist (The Forsyte Saga, etc.) but is also an excellent short-story writer.

The three preceding stories discussed in this lesson all expose, in different ways, the evil of selfishness. In contrast, the old German bootmaker who is the central character of "Quality" is a genuinely good and thoroughly unselfish man, sympathetically portrayed by Galsworthy in such a way as at once to be both admired and pitied—admired for what he is, and pitied for what the world does to him.

There is something fine and beautiful and sad about this story. In an age when the emphasis is too much on quantity and too little on quality, when too many people have their eyes focused on what they get out of life rather than what they can give to life, when more and more people want more and more money for less and less work, and too much attention is given to time clocks and salary checks—in such an age this story serves as a poignant reminder that quality workmanship is both rare and valuable. Someone long ago said that he who works with his hands is a laborer, pity him; he who works with his hands and his head is a craftsman, respect him; and he who works with his hands and his head and his heart is an artist, honor him.

Surely no one can read this story without gaining a greater reverence for unselfish work and high-quality workmanship. There is a satisfaction in doing good work, not for praise or reward, but for integrity's sake, simply because "a thing worth doing is worth doing well." Such a story as this should make us ashamed of any work that is less than the best we are capable of doing, ashamed of any selfish short-cut or compromise that sacrifices quality — and should make us glow with respect whenever we see work of the highest quality done for its own sake and because of the honesty of the one who does it. For shoddy work is in fact a kind of dishonesty.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. In "Birthday Party" what clues and hints does the author give to show the difference between the husband and wife and expose the failure of their marriage?

2. List as many as you can of Mabel's qualities in "The New Dress" and discuss to what extent these qualities all reflect aspects of selfishness. What could Mabel do to overcome these self-destructive qualities?

3. At the end of "The Dry

950
