[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 792 | PDF Page 827]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 792 (PDF page 827) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 17 — The Function of Divine Law in Family Relations —Continued

For Fourth Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To show that the most effective method of character building is primarily a result of wholesome family relations.

Zion is built of perfected family circles.

All devices, divine and human, for man's betterment, to be effective, must recognize the training that comes out of the home (John A. Widtsoe, Priesthood and Church Government, page 80).

FAMILY: A SACRED COMMISSION

The family is a sacred institution ordained of God. It insures his spirit children intimate, stimulating, and loving environment for their development during the most impressionable period of their lives on earth.

According to the scriptures, marriage was intended for all men and women, it being necessary in order for them to fulfill the purpose of their creation. "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord" (1 Cor. 11:11). And in Mark 10:7-9 we read, "For this cause [marriage] shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; And they twain shall be one flesh...." In the instructions to the first couple, the Creator made clear the importance of children in his plan ("multiply and replenish the earth") and the responsibility of parenthood was accepted. "And Adam and Eve blessed the name of God, and they made all things known unto their sons and their daughters" (P of GP, Moses 5:12).

Children become members of the Church and the Church is judged by the way the members reflect its teachings. The kind of member the child becomes depends largely upon the family environment in which the child develops his basic attitudes toward life and its purpose. The duty and obligation of parenthood is to teach the children correct principles and to set the proper example before them. Thus knowing right from wrong, it is the responsibility of each person to make his own decision.

PERFECTION IN FAMILY LIVING

With our accumulated knowledge of and experience in family living, together with the divine

792
