[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 256 | PDF Page 269]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 256 (PDF page 269) ---
The
STORM
                                                    Lila Spencer  Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada

AT four o'clock that winter day a slender girl with the still, pale face of a cameo climbed aboard the bus. It was almost dusk, and a brisk wind whipped Miriam's fur coat about her legs as she stepped up. There were only four other passengers. A mother in a worn cloth coat occupied one seat, and beside her was a lunch hamper. Her two little girls in red snowsuits and red mittens bounced up and down in the seats behind her, chanting, "We're going to visit Grandma! We're going to visit Grandma!" They stopped just long enough to call out a merry "Hi!" in Miriam's direction. Across the aisle and a few seats back, a young man in spectacles nervously checked through a bulging briefcase. The motor of the bus had been purring quietly for some time before the driver walked through and took their tickets. Then he folded himself into the driver's seat with a quizzical glance out the window, and the bus began to move.

Miriam tried to relax in her seat, ignoring the friendliness of the children. Ever since the unexpected termination of her engagement the week before, she had been an automaton, armored against the world, numb and frozen. After a sudden decision in the night she had hurried all day to get away. Escape and isolation — that was what she wanted. Were they the answer to her unhappiness? She snuggled down in her fur coat and buried her face in its collar. Her heart felt as bleak as the cold gray city streets outside. Mechanically, with cold eyes, she watched the changing winter scene as the bus left the city limits and moved into the country. As she glanced at the evening sky a faint foreboding touched her. She looked at the highway, and snow was sifting across the road in quick continuous series like troubled ripples on windswept water. There was nothing to worry about yet. There was something comforting in the chatter of the little girls and the rustling papers

256
