[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 659 | PDF Page 690]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 659 (PDF page 690) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

Lon gripped his friend's hand, realizing something of the cost to this man.

"Sam is over to Josiah's, but she will be back for dinner. You will stay?" He saw the muscles in the Indian's face move.

"No. It is better not. You will do the baptism?"

"I will do it, with authority and in the right way."

Still Juan waited, reluctant to take his leave. Lon wished for something he might do in return. Not in payment for Sam. Nothing could do that, but as a token of esteem for Juan Antonio.

Cajon! Of course! Why hadn't he thought of the stallion before? Juan objected but not so strongly now. "My mare will foal in the spring," Lon said. "Perhaps I'll have a Cajon of my own."

Selena was all excited over the news that was spreading like wildfire through the settlement. "But why, Lon?" she cried. "Why are we going back? The crops have never been better. Fruit trees are bearing. Everything looks favorable."

"We're being recalled, Selena. An army has been sent toward the Valley of the Great Salt Lake, and President Young has sent word for everyone to come. We're going home."

"But Lon!" she cried. "We can't go! Our house . . . ." The look on Lon's face brought her words to a halt. Of course he would go. Nothing in this world could keep Lon Holliday from obeying counsel.

"Yes, of course. The house." His voice was low, with a touch of bitterness.

"You may have the house, Selena, and our grain field and the cattle we have. With good management you'll get along. The Mormons again are in no position to bargain. Settlers will move in fast. And there are some who have decided against returning. You will not be alone."

"You want me to stay, then, Lon?"

"I want you to do what you want to, Selena." Lon was weary with the long years of disappointment.

"Belle will care for Sam. You know, of course, that they are going back. There is no time to lose before winter sets in. I'm helping load their wagon tonight."

Lon picked up his hat and went out, closing the door behind him. So he was taking Sam to Deseret! Through the window Selena saw the girl running to meet Lon. He held out his hand and she skipped along beside him, keeping up with his long stride.

Selena stood in the middle of the floor and looked around at the room. The air felt heavy and oppressive. What was home? Where was it? Nauvoo, Winter Quarters, San Bernardino — or the Valley of the Great Salt Lake? Even with an army on its way, it would never matter again. Wherever Lon Holliday was, that would be home for Selena.

She ran to the door and flung it open. Lon and Sam were almost to Belle's door.

"Lon!" she cried. "Sam! Wait for me! I'm coming."

And the distance between them seemed longer to Selena than the trip back to the Great Salt Lake.

659
