[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 874 | PDF Page 913]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 874 (PDF page 913) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

them some of the most crippling known to man. Recently a very earnest and sincere effort was made to immunize every person in the United States against one of these cripples. This could have been a classic example of the Priesthood quorum's interest in the welfare of its members and their families, by encouraging, providing transportation, and in other ways seeing to it that this drive was one hundred per cent successful. Every effort to improve the health conditions of the community we live in should be a concern of the Priesthood quorums.

(3) Law and Order. The safety of loved ones and the security of property are largely dependent upon the attitude of the members of the community toward law and order. Respect for the rights of others is first learned in the home. Then the expressions of neighbors and friends become important factors in developing attitudes of respect for law and order.

The quorum members should be concerned about developing a sense of dedication to law and order in each member. Many people refuse to report law breakers because in doing so they may have to appear in court. This takes time, they say, and is very inconvenient. Until the breaking of the law affects them directly, they do little about it. Usually what they do then is too late.

A part of the morality of our religion is honesty and the responsibility for maintenance and observance of law and order. The maintenance of law and order is the personal obligation of every citizen. To have such an attitude

in a community would be the most effective insurance against delinquency and crime.

(4) Education. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has, from its organization, been directly and positively active in the education of its members, not only for the children, but for every member of the Church. Dr. Widtsoe pointed out that "Man is more than animal. A man holding the Priesthood can live up to his high calling only by exercising his mind, with all his might, and thereby increasing daily his intellectual vigor" (Priesthood and Church Government, page 57).

There is a rich program of education in the organization of the Church. But this is not enough. If there is any hope for man to become as God, he will have to know all things. This is a continuous task. The Church has organized schools teaching all of the sciences and encouraging the membership to become proficient in various specializations and professions. As long as a person is as studious in spiritual matters as in the secular fields, there need be no conflict. Education, together with spiritual development, can be a more effective weapon against unemployment, disease, war, or any of society's basic ills.

The intellectual development of quorum members has equal claim on quorum leadership with spiritual and temporal welfare. What is really needed is for the Church members to see all human activity in the light of divine law. Every daily act has a bearing on perfection. The design of the Creator for the perfection of mankind unfolds in the revelations of

874
