[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 96 | PDF Page 101]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 96 (PDF page 101) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

blood. Cissie spent the rest of the afternoon sitting on the front porch with Mama's umbrella over her head. When Mama came home she said a tiger had bitten her under the weeping willow tree and Mama had better stay home to protect her.

THAT night we didn't have supper until late because Linda put the roast in the oven just fifteen minutes before Mama and Papa came home. She said she guessed it took a while to catch on to these things. Mama didn't say anything. She just stretched like a lady of leisure and said she thought she would read her new Relief Society Magazine and go to bed.

On Thursday Linda and I spent most of the day keeping track of Cissie. She kept running away because she said Linda was too bossy, and it wasn't any fun to be home when Mama wasn't there.

For dinner that night we had leftovers from the refrigerator because all our grocery money was gone and we were out of meat.

On Friday Linda said we would hurry and clean up the house and then go for a swim at Lacoola Plunge if Cissie would break open her piggie bank and lend us the money, since neither Linda nor I had a cent in our banks. On second thought, she said, we would go swimming first and then come back and work. The only trouble was that we met some of our friends and stayed until afternoon. When we did get home,

Linda told us we'd all have to work hard if we were to get finished before 5:30. Mama's usually cheerful, clean kitchen was a shambles because we had left the dishes for two days and had not scrubbed the floor all week. Soiled clothes that we hadn't bothered to take to the laundry room were stacked up by the back door.

Cissie was assigned to try to scrub the floor. She said she didn't have to since Linda wasn't the Mama and she didn't have to do what she said. Linda told her if she would cooperate we would all go down to the drugstore and have a soda, if Cissie would take a little more money from her piggy bank. We decided to go get the sodas first to give us energy for our work.

By the time we got back it was nearly 3:00 P.M. Linda hurried to start the washing and ironing after telling me to cook some rice. She said since we didn't have any meat we could just have rice and pretend we were Chinese.

I put a pan of water on to boil and poured in some rice. I poured in the whole package, but that didn't look like enough to feed five people, so I poured in another box. That filled the pan nicely.

Cissie got a pail of water and swished the mop around in it for awhile just to hear it splash, then sloshed a lot of water on the floor and pushed it around with the mop.

Suddenly I heard Linda scream. On my way to the laundry room I slipped and fell on

96
