[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 328 | PDF Page 345]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 328 (PDF page 345) ---
Literary Contest Announcements
1964

THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests.

The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other.

Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest

THE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1964. Prizes will be awarded as follows:
First prize ..............................$40
Second prize ..........................$30
Third prize ............................$20

Prize poems will be published in the January 1965 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow).

Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.

Rules for the contest:

1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board.

2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant.

3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.)

4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks.

5. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem.

6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a sealed envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used.

7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying:
   a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
   b. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work.
   c. That it has never been published.
   d. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication.
   e. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.

8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

328
