[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 151 | PDF Page 156]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 151 (PDF page 156) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

as a story of Lincoln's life for children, Sandburg's six-volume biography has earned wide acceptance over the decades as the best, largest, deepest, and truest access our generation has to our greatest American and the legend which surrounds and sustains him. But in striving so successfully to create an image of Lincoln which will endure, simultaneously Sandburg has created a lesser legend which envelops himself as Lincoln's biographer. It was this growing legend which was nurtured by Sandburg's address to the Eighty-Sixth Congress in 1959, one of two civilians ever to have been so honored. His subject was Abraham Lincoln, born 150 years earlier. But in making Lincoln live for his contemporaries, Sandburg has inadvertently drawn, heavily from Sandburg, the patient researcher and sympathetic artist. This constitutes the unique source of the book's power. Ideally the two seem to complement each other. The following excerpts from "A Lincoln Preface" fairly exemplify the thoroughness of Sandburg's research and the casual yet powerful identity with Lincoln which immediately arises like a half-remembered personal nostalgia from the cold printed page, but a page now chosen and ordered by a poet blessed with superb human insight and selective powers.

In the time of the April lilacs in the year 1865, a man in the City of Washington, D.C., trusted a guard to watch at a door, and the guard was careless, left the door, and the man was shot, lingered a night, passed away, was laid in a box, and carried north and west a thousand miles; bells sobbed; cities wore crepe; people stood with hats off as the railroad

burial car came past at midnight, dawn or noon. . . .

When the woman who wrote Uncle Tom's Cabin came to see him in the White House, he greeted her, "So you're the little woman who wrote the book that made this great war," and as they seated themselves at a fireplace, "I do love an open fire; I always had one to home." As they were finishing their talk of the days of blood, he said, "I sha'n't last long after it's over. . . ."

His life, mind and heart ran in contrasts. When his white kid gloves broke into tatters while shaking hands at a White House reception, he remarked, "This looks like a general bustification. . . ."

He was a chosen spokesman; yet there were times he was silent; nothing but silence could fit those times that had fitted a chosen spokesman; in the mixed shame and blame of the immense wrongs of two crashing civilizations, with nothing to say, he said nothing at all, and wept at those times in a way that made weeping appropriate, decent, majestic.

(From The Sandburg Range, Harcourt, Brace and Company 1957, pp. 351-353. Copyright, 1953, by CARL SANDBURG. Reprinted by permission of the publishers.)

Sandburg's portrait of Lincoln might possibly be surpassed, but until such a remote day arrives, it is our best national biography, of greatness, by greatness, and for a future universal greatness arising from masses of common men made uncommon by their realization that such men have lived.

Thoughts for Discussion

1. Prove that poetry and music have unified Sandburg's life.
2. If you were to write a short paper on "The Education of Carl Sandburg," what specific points would you emphasize? What conclusions would you reach?
3. Discuss "free men of imagination" and "resistance to change" as they fit into Carl Sandburg's personal philosophy.

151
