[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 825 | PDF Page 864]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 825 (PDF page 864) ---
OUR ROOTS GO DEEP

surpassed her in the field of arithmetic. She liked the recipes which Susie brought home from her home economics classes to try out on the family. She liked the seventh grade science lessons which Dale read aloud to her. Life was good, she had a good family, and she was happy.

She knew it was not wise to be concerned about her neighbors so much. She must be able to live her own life, mind her own business.

Just then Vera Holly turned in the driveway. She was at the wheel of a new royal blue station wagon. Marion could tell by the big smile on Vera's face that it was her own car, and it was completely paid for. If Vera came over bragging about it, she would . . . she would. Marion didn't know what she would do. Probably start right over with envy.

"Marion," she said, "get hold of yourself! Why the idea of being jealous because someone gets a new car. Shame! Shame! Shame!"

She knew if Vera Holly was in trouble, she would rush over and move heaven and earth to help her. But because she was successful, was getting a few of the nicer things of life, Marion was becoming jealous and wanted to weave a cocoon of protection around herself.

Marion looked at the two parfait pies. Vera had been gone all day. She probably was hurrying around to get supper ready for her family. She would no doubt welcome a prepared dessert. Marion ran the comb through her hair, wiped the jealous tears from her eyes, added a bit of lipstick, and slipped out of the door and walked over to the Holly residence. She rang the back doorbell.

"Oh, Marion, I'm so glad you came over." Vera was busy preparing a quick spaghetti supper and a tossed salad.

"I thought you could use this strawberry baked Alaska pie for dessert."

"Marion, you are a treasure. I've just never had such a dear friend as you are. I sure can use the pie. You see, I've been gone all day, and I'm tired. Marion, it's a long story and I'll have to start at the first. Sit down for a bit.

"Jim opened up that Windemere building area, and he said that if I wanted to, we could get one of those choice lots and build a new home. We looked at house plans, but you know, Marion, the new modern homes aren't homey and cozy like yours and mine.

"Our whole family talked it over, and we took a secret ballot vote. Would you believe it, we all voted to stay right here. The children like their friends here, and their tree house. We planted these dear old trees, you folks and Jim and I, and well, you just can't pull up roots like that. Our roots go deep, Marion.

"I told Jim what I wanted was a car of my own. So that when you and I wanted to go shopping, or take the children on picnics or for a swim we could go. Jim and Wally always have the family cars, and I thought how nice it would be if I could drive you to Relief Society when you have all those visual aids to carry. I thought about the time we hunted for little Susie when she was

(Continued on page 879)

825
