[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 547 | PDF Page 571]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 547 (PDF page 571) ---
JULY 1964

illustrate this in examining a poem by this first approach:

THE CROSS OF SNOW

In the long, sleepless watches of the night,
A gentle face—the face of one long dead—
Looks at me from the wall, where round its head
The night-lamp casts a halo of pale light.
Here in this room she died; and soul more white
Never through the martyrdom of fire was led
To its repose; nor can in books be read
The legend of a life more bencdight.
There is a mountain in the distant West,
That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines
Displays a cross of snow upon its side.
Such is the cross I wear upon my breast
These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes
And seasons, changeless since the day she died.

The poem is obviously one of loss, the loss of a loved one who apparently died by fire. While you have not had an exactly comparable experience you probably have lost, by death, someone very dear to you. You reflect that your loss also took place long ago, but it is still vivid, and you appreciate the author's symbol of the cross of snow—with all its suggestions of suffering — for it describes your own feelings well. Faith in a hereafter, however, partially tempers your sorrow, and you do not quite identify with the despairing tone of the concluding lines. This poem appeals to anyone who has experienced the death of a loved one, but you would have to share the author's religious convictions, which do not appear very hopeful here, to identify with this poem totally.

B. Finding Critical Standards Within the Work. The second approach stresses the form of the work rather than its message and requires some knowledge of literary types. It is often called the Aristotelian method, after Aristotle, pupil of Plato. This approach focuses on the form in which the poem is written. Let us demonstrate this by considering the same poem we looked at earlier. You still do not care who wrote it, but you do care about its structure and the relation of part to part in the poem. You note immediately that it is a sonnet. You check to see if the poem is unified by a strong but single emotion, and find that it is. You also note that the author has handled the two-part nature of the sonnet well. The first eight lines develop the situation; the last six give it symbolic and memorable expression. The images are consistent and precise. The author's constant guarding of a saintly memory is conveyed effectively by such words as "watches," "halo," "bencdight," and "changeless." The suddenness of the catastrophe is beautifully illustrated by the uninterrupted phrase from the middle of line five to the middle of line seven. And nothing is more impressive in setting the despairing tone of the poem than the position given the word changeless in the last line. Coming as it does, it forces you to emphasize it, and in so doing leaves exactly the impact necessary to conclude this tightly controlled poem.

C. Emphasizing the Author. The third approach tries to illuminate the work by considering the

548
