[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 781 | PDF Page 816]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 781 (PDF page 816) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

The principle that greater light and understanding bring greater responsibility, should appeal to everyone as a just principle. For example, if a person does not have an opportunity to hear the fulness of the gospel, then he should not be held to that law. It is also true that if one does have the opportunity to know the commandments of that law, and does not live them, then he should lose the blessings of living that law. Although one may learn the letter of the law, some may claim that they do not understand the necessity of complying with the commandment. What of them? Elder James E. Talmage has this informative answer:

... Such may ask: Are men to suffer penalty in the hereafter because they cannot understand what is required of them in mortality? The degree of their culpability is to be determined by the fundamental cause of their ineptitude in matters spiritual. Failure to comprehend may be due to bias or to lack of desire to know. ...

Are you unable to realize that baptism is essential to salvation? Perhaps the cause lies in the fact that you have never developed the essential condition of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; or, perchance, you have never repented of your sins. Faith and repentance, as the Scriptures aver, are prerequisites to effective baptism; and it is as unreasonable to expect a faithless unrepentant sinner to comprehend the essentiality of baptism as to expect one untrained in the rudiments of arithmetic to understand algebra.

Wilful ignorance of Gospel requirements is sin. Man is untrue to his Divine lineage and birthright of reason when he turns away from the truth, or deliberately chooses to walk in darkness while the illumined path is open to his tread. Positive rejection of the truth is even graver than passive inattention or neglect. Yet to every one is given the right of choice and the power of agency, with the certainty of his meeting the natural and inevitable consequence (Vitality of Mormonism, 1948 ed., pp. 270-271).

Latter-day Saints are more responsible before the Lord because they are under covenant by baptism, by temple ordinances, as well as by the enlightenment of the Holy Ghost. "What I say unto one I say unto all" is a truth which has application many times in these revelations. Although a truth may be spoken to one or several people, usually it is applicable to the many.

It is just as true today as in 1832 that the adversary is gaining ground and his darkness reigneth to a great degree upon the earth. (D&C 82:5.) This condition brings about this warning to the world:

And the anger of God kindleth against the inhabitants of the earth; and none doeth good, for all have gone out of the way (Verse 6).

SIN NO MORE

To the brethren in Missouri (and to all members of the Church) the Lord counseled them to sin no more, and "unto that soul who sinneth shall the former sins return" (D&C 82:7). After quoting Ezekiel, chapter 18, verse 24, the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary gives this explanation:

... God forgives the repentant sinner so completely that "his transgressions shall not be mentioned unto him"; on the other hand, the righteous, who turns away from righteousness, cannot hope that his former life will save him. The principle works both ways, and is, therefore, eminently just (page 490).

781
