[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 954 | PDF Page 997]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 954 (PDF page 997) ---
DECEMBER 1964

two things must be done. First, develop among the members a positive attitude toward acceptance of Church assignments. Every member must have the conviction, without reservation, that he is willing to serve in any capacity, at any time. This is the work of the Lord and we cannot afford to make the Lord wait. This attitude is primarily a product of the home.

Secondly, a person must be called to the office by proper authority. "We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof" (Fifth Article of Faith).

In our lessons last year, we pointed out the importance of the method by which a person is called to service. The bishop, stake president, or General Authority interviews the person for worthiness and approves for leadership, while those responsible for the organization to which the new leader is assigned, train him for the specific duties of the calling.

A call to service can have therapeutic value to new members and to those who are weak in the faith. Encouragement, therefore, should be given by assigning to them carefully selected areas of service. If small responsibilities are given at first, the individual can develop confidence and receive the warmth that his soul that comes from doing something for others. He thus receives the personal stimulation that comes from being needed, the feeling that he is essential to the successful operation of the organization.

PRIESTHOOD AND AUXILIARY WORK

The responsibility of leadership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints rests in the Priesthood. In an effort to care for the intellectual, spiritual, and temporal welfare of all the members, the Church has added, from time to time, various organizations to provide training in the gospel, meet a variety of human needs, and, at the same time, offer opportunities for leadership to large numbers of members. These auxiliary or assisting organizations have always been responsible to the Priesthood. The Priesthood provides the dynamics of Church organization, yet much of the energy spent in auxiliary work and activity comes from the women.

Today, more than ever before, Church leadership is expending great effort to coordinate all the activities of the various organizations within the Priesthood. The valuable work experience gained from the years of auxiliary work has developed many people who are nationally recognized as leaders in the activities of the various age groupings within society. These people, under Priesthood leadership, are formulating auxiliary programs in age groupings that eliminate unnecessary duplication, but give proper emphasis to the essential teachings of the Church to each age group. The coordinating effort of the Priesthood includes more than a study of theology, it relates the religious teachings to all phases of human association.

BE YE ONE

In discussing the value of Church activity, we must recognize that the term "value" has a

954
