[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 101 | PDF Page 106]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 101 (PDF page 106) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

one thing she had wanted and prayed for harder than she had ever prayed before in her entire life?

The grave was finished and rounded over to remind Selena afresh of the silent form within, so recently warm, loving and laughing at her side. Quietly the others withdrew, leaving only the men gathering up their tools and Belle and Selena. The shovels were all placed in the nearby wagon and all most of the men climbed in. Still Selena could not bring herself to leave.

One young man who had been helping walked past the two women to get a crowbar and pick. As he returned with them he paused and said kindly, "I'm right sorry, Ma'am."

Selena looked at him dumbly, unable to answer.

"Thank you, Sir," answered Belle.

Selena, unable to respond to the compassion in the deep blue eyes of the man, turned away. As the men drove off toward the settlement, smaller now than it had been during those first years of its occupancy by the saints, still Selena stood woodenly by the grave. At last, as it was growing dark, Belle took her arm firmly.

"Come, Selena," she said. "We must go now."

Selena waited a long moment. Then she answered, "Yes. We must go. From this day I do not do what I want. I do what I must."

THE weeks to come dragged for Selena. She was anxious to be on the trail and get the long trek underway. Winter Quarters had brought her the greatest sorrow of her life and she hated the place.

"How much longer will it be, Belle?" she asked, as the month of June began.

"They are waiting for some emigrants from England to join the wagon train. They left New York some days ago. As soon as they arrive we shall be on the way."

"We have everything packed now, except the few things we need," Selena said. "With you taking care of the wagon, getting the tires set and new shoes on the oxen, the packing isn't much of a job."

"You know how it is with me," answered Belle. "I hate being cooped up in the house, though I must confess that one ox gave me a time getting the shoes on the back feet. I had to rope him and throw him down and tie him tight before I could get it done. I'd rather shoe a horse any day of the week!"

With the arrival of the emigrants the time to leave drew near, and Selena spent many hours in the cemetery beside the grave. Belle tried, without avail, to get her sister to make her visits to the graveside short, knowing the deep depression that engulfed Selena after each prolonged stay.

"I'll be awfully glad to get away from here," Belle said one morning after her sister had spent much of the night sobbing quietly into her pillow. "It's unhealthy

101
