[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 410 | PDF Page 431]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 410 (PDF page 431) ---
My English Textbook

Martha Weyland Paulsen

Delivered in the Magazine Department Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1963

ONE evening as I sat resting after a busy day, contemplating the beautiful surroundings of the valley, in the stillness I heard the shriek of a siren. Soon the fire engine came rushing up the street. The thought came to me, what would I save, if my home was on fire?

If the children were home, I would try to save them and myself. And if there were more time? Would I try to save furs, jewels (if I had any)?

I would try to save treasured family pictures, some old letters from my mother and father. I would save a few prized books. The Relief Society Magazine (prime example). This volume especially. It is not especially beautiful to look at. It is not bound professionally. It is one of these "do it yourself projects."

The story of my life is bound in this book. Here is a year's subscription of The Relief Society Magazine—the year 1928.

When I was nineteen years of age the opportunity came to me to join two sisters and a brother in Salt Lake City, Utah. In Sweden I had what was considered a good position with the Telephone Company. I came here not knowing the language and could not hope for the same. I was employed with a lovely family. Here I learned the American way of life, for which I have always been grateful. I was paid $3 a week. On this I had to take care of my own needs and also start saving to bring a younger sister here from Sweden.

I could not afford books to satisfy the desire for reading that my parents had given me.

The first Sunday I was in Salt Lake City, some friends came to visit. One of them brought with him a stack of funny papers. Spreading some of them out on the floor, he said: "Come here, Martha, this is a good way to start learning a new language." Later that evening my sister said: "We have come here for the sake of the gospel, you will never learn about the gospel or the English language through the funny papers. Why not learn about the gospel at the same time you are learning a new language?" My sister brought out a few Relief Society Magazines. Together, we looked through them. She told me about the lesson department. I knew this was the plan my mother would want me to follow. The Relief Society Magazine became my English textbook.

Many a lonely night I sat with a Swedish-English dictionary and my Relief Society Magazine, remembering what my Father used to say: "Every man worth his salt will have hardships to meet and temptations to battle." Nothing worthwhile is accomplished without hard work.

It was hard work, it was discouraging work, and my whole heart had to be in it if I wanted to succeed. As time progressed, little by little, I understood more of the wonderful truths. They seemed to fit into my life. The way I wanted my life to be. More than anything I wanted a testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. I never doubted my parents' teachings. I wanted to know through my own efforts.

Sometimes when sickness and discouragement nearly overtook me, I gained strength reading about the pioneers. I thought, what was it about those wonderful people that made it possible for them to endure all their hardships? It was not wealth, it was not knowledge, particularly, except the knowledge of God. I came to realize, it was the testimony. The testimony in their hearts of the truth of the gospel and the divinity of the mission of

410
