[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 86 | PDF Page 91]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 86 (PDF page 91) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

package of cigarettes fom my desk. About to apply a light to one of them, I heard a voice say as gently as any worried mother might caution a careless son, "Oh, Bill, give up your cigarettes!" And even before it had occurred to me that no one was present in the flesh to address me thus audibly, I answered: "All right!" and tossed the package into the near-by waste basket. I went all that day without smoking. Next morning, again, I reached for my tobacco tin across my desk to load up my corncob pipe. It was knocked from my hands with a slap that tossed it upward in the air and deposited it bottom upward at my feet with the tobacco spilling out. No cautioning this time. But I knew!

I haven't smoked tobacco in any form from that day to the present — this after twenty years of smoking a dozen cigars a day, lighting one from the butt of another. Moreover, I haven't had the slightest ill effect nor did I go through the agonizing torture of "breaking off." I just didn't smoke anymore — didn't have the nervous urge — didn't even give tobacco a thought.

The same strange prohibition seemed to shut down on coffee, tea, alcohol, and meats. I endured not the slightest distress in giving these items up. They simply ceased to exist for me. [Mind you, this is not a member of the Church writing.] And, inversely, a strange new sensation began to manifest itself in my muscles and organs.

I had the glorious feeling of physical detachment from the handicaps of bodily matter. No form of bodily excercise seemed to take energy that I had consciously to supply. I had always been slightly stoop-shouldered. Without any unusual excercise, my spine straightened of itself, so to speak.

Along with this physical phenomena went the inexplicable faculty of withstanding fatigue. If I wearied myself by prolonged physical labor, it was the healthy weariness of boyhood that overtook me, and a sound night's sleep wrought complete readjustment. On the other hand, I found that I could sit at my typewriter twelve

hours at a stretch, if necessary, with hardly a muscle protesting. I had suffered consistently from insomnia ever since a period in my twenties when I worked as police reporter on a morning newspaper. Now I went to bed and to sleep.

With this physical alteration came a different feeling toward those around me. This perhaps was the most astounding aftermath of the whole adventure! Certainly it appeared to have convinced my friends that some extraordinary thing had occurred, since it dramatized my rejuvenation, so to speak, and gave them something to perceive with their senses. . . .

At any rate, whether I am right or wrong, I know that for a limited time one night last year out in California my spiritual entity left my body and went somewhere—a concrete place where I could talk, walk about, feel, and see; where answers were returned to questions addressed to physically dead people, which have checked up in the waking world and clarified for me the riddle of earthly existence.

I know there is no death, because, in a manner of speaking, I went through the process of dying, came back to my body and took up the burden of earthly living again. I know that the experience has metamorphosed the cantankerous Vermont Yankee that was once Bill Pelley, and launched him into a wholly different universe that seems filled with naught but love, harmony, health, good humor, and prosperity. . . . (Excerpts from "Seven Minutes In Eternity," by William Dudley Pelley, Improvement Era, June 1929, pp. 621-628; July 1929, pp. 713-721.)

Unseen forces at work can undermine, as well as strengthen our characters, and, at the same time, there are unseen forces that strengthen or threaten to destroy our homes. I read from a statement by President Joseph F. Smith, in order to impress these facts:

86
