[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 391 | PDF Page 408]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 391 (PDF page 408) ---
NOTES FROM THE FIELD

[PHOTOGRAPH]

North Weber Stake (Utah) Homemakers' Talent Festival
September 13, 1963

Ward work meeting leaders and stake work meeting leaders grouped around display tables of articles made in Relief Society work meetings, left to right: Esther Dance, West Weber Ward; Elaine Wade, Warren Ward; Opal Hammer, Taylor Ward; JoAnne Wilson, West Warren Ward; Lillian Thompson, Ogden Forty-sixth Ward Work Director Counselor; Dorothea Douglas, Ogden Sixteenth Ward; June Timmerick, Wilson Ward; Chloe Sessions, Ogden Third Ward; Martha Vaughn, Ogden Tenth Ward; Bertha Hadley, stake work meeting leader.

Gladys P. Wayment, President, North Weber Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held a very successful Talent Festival, September 13, 1963. A special feature was the display of articles made in Relief Society work meetings. On display were many beautiful quilts, rugs, knitted and crocheted articles, pictures, wall plaques, and paintings; interesting conversation pieces; a group of made-over articles; antiques and heirlooms, including treasured pieces of china, antique furniture, shawls, and clothing.

"From The Relief Society Magazine, we chose cookie recipes, from which many varieties of cookies were made by the wards, and these were served with sherbet, as refreshments for the occasion. Printed booklets, containing the recipes of all the different cookies, were presented to all those who attended. An interesting display was a welfare table, showing a year's supply of food for one individual, with literature and information on storage available to everyone. In the foyer was a festival of learning on parade, where lovely displays of all the lesson departments, music, and the Magazine were featured. As our festival was held through the late afternoon and the evening, many members of the Priesthood attended with the sisters. They expressed themselves as pleased with the accomplishments of the Relief Society. We were most honored to have Sister Louise W. Madsen of the General Board attend the festival. This was one of the most outstanding and best attended events we have held, and we were very pleased with the efforts of all the wards."

391
