[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 312 | PDF Page 325]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 312 (PDF page 325) ---
APRIL 1964

Washington Stake (Washington, D.C.) Chevy Chase Ward Bazaar
November 8-9, 1963

Virginia Cameron is seen admiring a hand-knit hat and sweater, made and modeled by Marjorie Van Camp (seated); Frances G. Bennett, second from the left, Blese B. Lundberg, and Mirandy Allison (right) are displaying some of the hundreds of handmade articles and objects of art displayed at the bazaar.

Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports the theme was international and the general public was invited. A special feature of the bazaar was the display of many of the paintings included in the Seventieth Annual Exhibition of the Society of Washington Artists, from the National Collection of Fine Arts, Smithsonian Institution.

Original creative stitchery and crewel embroidered wall hangings, Swedish embroidered tote bags, Sauna shirts, floral boutique pieces, ceramic pins, papier maché figures, as well as hand-knit sweaters, hats, slippers, and baby things, in addition to candle and wreath arrangements, and a large assortment of Christmas gifts kept the sisters busy for months preparing for the bazaar.

Alice Marriott's mustard pickles and jams were in great demand at the gourmet booths, which offered a wide variety of homemade foods. Breads of the world, cakes, penny candy, country sausage, ham sandwiches, and homemade root beer were among the fast selling foods which were beautifully displayed.

Monument Park West Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Holds "Fair Exchange"
September 20, 1963

Left to right: Wanda N. Ericson, Work Director Counselor; Marcella B. Bramwell, Secretary-Treasurer; Clarice Cooper, President; Ruth H. Willes, Education Counselor.

Sister Cooper reports: "A very successful and beautiful 'Fair Exchange' was held September 20, 1963. It was extremely gratifying to have approximately 500 people call during the hours from 10 A.M. until 12 noon. Each of the seven wards of the stake was responsible for one booth, and in addition brought three articles for the 'Bazaar Booth.' A number of other talented people were generous in demonstrating special skills. Sister Bramwell had prepared a very interesting and informative chart on attendance at the various meetings. Nyena S. Nelson, theology class leader, Fae S. Carlson, literature class leader, Ruby E. Henderson, social science class leader, and Pat S. Lowder, Visiting Teacher representative, had eye-catching booths demonstrating their work.

"The hall was festive, decorated in rich fall colors. Streamers, fanning out from a balloon-decorated high point on the back wall, suggested a huge tent. The names of the booths were printed in black on green, scalloped, corrugated paper which extended from pole to pole so as to make a continuous border. Very interesting names were used, such as: Sweet Shoppe, Norwegian Pancakes, Bread Basket, Cookie Carousel, Closet Door, Feather Fantasy, Knitting Needle, Fall's Creations, Christmas Ideas, Bazaar Items, Glamor Cobbler, and Nature's Magic and Originals. Everything shown or demonstrated could be made by hand. Samples and recipes were given wherever food was demonstrated.

"The beautiful serving table featured a lovely centerpiece of ribbon chrysanthemums made by Ruby Swallow. Punch and cookies made by the board members were served by Margaret J. Harmon, stake music director, and Golda T. Evans, visiting teacher message leader. Bernice P. Engeman, stake organist, played beautiful and appropriate music during the entire 'Fair Exchange.' Those attending 'signed in,' and the ward with the largest number received a prize. Those who came received some excellent ideas for bazaars and work meetings, along with a renewed desire to attend Relief Society and receive its many benefits."

312
