[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 642 | PDF Page 673]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 642 (PDF page 673) ---
From Near and Far

I cannot go out to Relief Society meetings now, but I read every word of the Magazine. In the June issue the picture of Sister McKay was very lovely. I enjoyed the story "The Sheep That Strayed on Sunday," by Helen Nielson, which emphasizes kindness and good family ties. It was a pleasure to read "Happiness in Flower Arranging," by Maude W. Howard. Thanks so much for the Magazine.
Frances R. Stoker
Ogden, Utah

The sewing hints and patterns which have been published in The Relief Society Magazine are very interesting. The recipes, too, are delightful to use. In fact, the whole Magazine has all the better features of any magazine, especially the stories and poems, so clean and refreshing.
Margaret Perry
Junction City, Kansas

I am so glad every month that I have The Relief Society Magazine in my letterbox. I love the Magazine. I learn so many new things when I read the Magazine. I am living in Malmö, Sweden, and in our branch here there are many subscribers to the Magazine. I also learn to read English more easily and to speak more correctly by reading the Magazine.
Mrs. G. P. Fryksmo
Malmö, Sweden

After reading Lois Tanner's article in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine, "A Tribute to Relief Society Presidents," I was sure she knew our Relief Society president Janene Bates. She makes each member feel important and needed. Her smile at meetings seems to be especially for each sister, although there are dozens of us there. I love Relief Society, the lessons, and the Magazine.
Gladys Morrison
Susanville, California

I especially love the beautiful colored pictures used as covers for The Relief Society Magazine. So imagine how pleased I was when I found this joy shared by another. Who was that other? A young missionary here in the North British Mission. He came visiting when I had my Magazines out for binding. His first words when he entered the room were: "Oh, Relief Society Magazines! There may be a picture of my mountains." Where are his mountains? American Fork, Utah. We found two pictures: the cover for September 1963, and the frontispiece for October 1963. What a joy this brought to one so far from home.
Elsie Lee
Whitefield, Lancashire
England

I am a young homemaker married just one year. The Relief Society Magazine is truly one of the highlights of my life. The stories are always heartwarming and tender, and I especially enjoy the sewing hints. Words cannot express the love and deep admiration I have for the Magazine.
Carol Hood Blackhurst
Pleasant Grove, Utah

I enjoy so very much the beautiful covers and frontispieces of The Relief Society Magazine. They bring back such lovely memories of the places in Utah which were so common to me as a young girl. The picture of the South Fork of the Provo River in the April issue is especially beautiful.
—Eileen Mecham Cleland
Rawlins, Wyoming

I think the Magazine is wonderful and the lesson material superb. I want especially to thank Christine H. Robinson for the effort and research she puts into our visiting teacher messages. I often use excerpts from her messages in my talks before the Parent Teachers Association meetings.
—Rayella Richardson
Santa Barbara, California

642
