[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 16 | PDF Page 17]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 16 (PDF page 17) ---
JANUARY 1964

Sheldon in Portland, but he would not relent, either. They had always been firm with Bud, knowing he was in that difficult age where he was constantly testing them, demanding more and more that they give in to him, yet unconsciously, inconsistently, hoping they wouldn't give in, so that in a world where true values are taken lightly, he could depend on their unshakeable discipline.

At breakfast Bud looked so worried that her heart ached for him. She wanted desperately to give him the money. What was five dollars! But she knew it wasn't the money involved. He must take the consequences of his mistakes to become a mature, responsible adult.

Bud got up from the table and a few minutes later when she lifted the receiver to telephone her grocery order, she heard him talking to Freddie Smith. She heard Freddie say, "So I charge high interest!" The gang resented Freddie. They called him Shylock because he demanded his pound of flesh for each penny loaned. Bud was really desperate if he would appeal to Freddie for a loan!

Mrs. Olafson, the cleaning woman, came then and Donna went with her to the basement to give instructions. When she came back upstairs, Bud had his jacket on. He said, "Mom, listen. I..." And then Mrs. Olafson called from the basement. Donna went to the top of the stairs to see what she wanted, and when she returned Bud was gone.

She was extremely busy after that. She was in the presidency of the Relief Society, and she called the members of the luncheon committee in regards to the opening luncheon and social. At eleven she was going to the ward to quilt, and so she prepared an oven meal for dinner, but busy or not, all the time she was hurrying and working she worried about Bud. How would he handle the situation with Candy!

SHE was quilting when she discovered her coin purse was missing. Marge Griffin asked if someone had change for a dollar. Donna said, "I have twenty dollars worth of change," and reached into her black leather bag. There was no coin purse.

She began a frantic search, taking everything out of the large bag. Marge said, "Never mind, Sister Stacey has it." Donna said, "Oh... fine." And she sat there, a sinking feeling in the pit of her stomach, retracing her movements since the day before.

She had gone to town and shopped. As she neared home she remembered that the cleaner would be returning Sheldon's slacks. She had stopped at Carter's grocery store and had the twenty dollar bill changed.

She could remember hastily cramming the bills and small change into her large coin purse. The cleaner had driven up just as she stopped the car. She had

16
