[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 461 | PDF Page 482]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 461 (PDF page 482) ---
JUNE 1964

Tacoma Stake (Washington), Tacoma First Ward Bazaar
November 1963

Left to right: Rosella Seal, First Counselor; Marion Harris, President; Vera Casio, Second Counselor; Bessie Groom, work meeting leader.

Jennie Wheeler, President, Tacoma Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Tacoma First Ward proved the worth of hard work in preparing for their bazaar. They made a total of $550. About $140 was earned from serving a turkey dinner the evening of the bazaar, and the remainder came from items made by the sisters during the year. The pillowcases draped over the front of the table were made by Anna Conquest, a sister who is eighty-one years old. She averages a pair of pillowcases a month, but the month before the bazaar she made three pairs. All are solid embroidery. Best sellers at the bazaar were eighteen sets of tea towels, plus some singles; a dozen sets of pillowcases, two dozen cloth balls, detergent bottle covers, eleven doll quilts, four large quilts (with orders for more); two dozen cloth hangers, aprons, and children's clothing. We certainly felt that this fund-raising activity was an outstanding example of diligence and cooperation."

Reseda Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Music for Different Occasions

Merlene Colarusso, President, Reseda Stake Relief Society, reports: "In recent months, the Reseda Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers chorus has presented a spring concert, commemorated the Society's anniversary, given an autumn concert, and was featured in the stake Inter-Faith social. Maryann M. Mendenhall is choirster, and Carol C. Cook, organist."

Whittier Stake (California) "Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair"
September 20, 1963

Left to right: Jean Ann Bowman and Jacqueline Kaline, two of ninety-three models who participated in the fashion show.

Rea W. Jorgensen is president of Whittier Stake Relief Society, with Bette McDonough and Alta Ellis as her counselors.

Sister Jorgensen reports: "Come to the Fair — Our Fashion Fair With a Forward Flair.' With these words, the Whittier Stake Relief Society set the stage for a full evening of festivity and fashion. An ingenious carousel and a giant pink horse delighted both models and spectators as the curtains parted. Musical numbers were interspersed with a colorful narration which kept the fair moving at a lively pace. Models, from toddlers to grandmothers, came on stage in small groups to view the wonder and excitement created with paint and paper.

"This fashion fair was the culmination of a summer sewing school held in each ward of the stake. Ensembles for all occasions were proudly worn by those who had taken advantage of this wonderful opportunity afforded them by the Relief Society. Various fashions shown included morning, afternoon, and evening wear, children's apparel, mother and daughter outfits, maternity wear, and accessory magic. As each of the ninety-three models walked down the ramp toward the many gaily decorated booths, a capacity audience of nearly 450 applauded their appreciation for the efforts of these sisters."

462
