[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 866 | PDF Page 905]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 866 (PDF page 905) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

4. My relationship with the Restored Church.
Although parents carry the responsibility to teach their children, the children also should participate in presenting lesson materials and should be encouraged to enter actively into the discussion.

It is expected that the Family Home Evening Program will become the basic teaching program for the members of the Church. All other Church lesson materials will be written to support, supplement, and complement the home lessons (Lesson 1, Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons, 1965).

CONCLUSION

The program of Relief Society is and always has been centered in the home. It endeavors through its varied courses of study and activities, to assist Latter-day Saint women to become better wives and better mothers.

As Relief Society sisters contemplate the wisdom and the vast potential influence of this new program, they will welcome the opportunity to be a part of it. They will find in the lessons and in the Family Home Evening Program manual, encouragement and reinforcement for their inherent and sacred responsibility.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What can a mother do to establish a home atmosphere which will promote an acceptance of this program?

2. How can parents arrange a home evening which will be inviting to the teenage members of the family?

3. Why are parents inclined to leave gospel instruction of their children to the Primary, Sunday School, or M.I.A.?

4. What evidence can you give that there is need for more religious guidance in the home?

5. Discuss the merit of the Family Home Evening Program for families where there are no children.

Undefeated

Ruth H. Chadwick

The seed
Of hope and faith
That's planted deep within
The heart of man, defies neglect
And drought.

When dew
Of sacrifice
And love replaces hate
And covetous desires, the seed
Responds.

It throbs
With life that bursts
The hardened shell, and sends
Its bud of promise forth to bloom
Once more.

866
