[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 49 | PDF Page 50]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 49 (PDF page 50) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

Ben slept restlessly beside her. She slipped out of bed without disturbing him. She would go to her lagoon where she had always gone to think and pray when she needed help.

It was one of those Hawaiian nights with a great, lustrous pearly moon that turned the white sand into glistening crystal. A soft, feathery wind rippled the blue velvet waves in enchanting rhythm. No one could see this lagoon in the moonlight and not yearn to see it again and again and again.

Her heart beat up into her throat! There, on the beach, was a woman sitting before an easel, painting a picture of her lagoon. It was Margaret!

Luana stood in stunned silence as she realized that Margaret, too, had decided that this particular place would make a perfect painting for the contest.

The white sand was cold beneath Luana's feet. She shivered, although the night was warm. Covering her face with her hands, she tried to hold back the resentment that almost choked her. She was ashamed of the thoughts that tumbled through her mind.

Margaret did not need the money from the contest the way Luana needed it. She did not have a teenage girl who needed to have her teeth straightened; no daughter who must have a pretty wedding; no son who had been called on a mission; no twin boys who needed lessons in art and music. Margaret's husband was a successful businessman, and Margaret's paintings had sold for large sums of money. Didn't Margaret realize that Ben was striving to hold on to this plantation?

Why, oh, why, Luana asked herself with a sob, did this contest mean so much to Margaret? Why did she work so desperately now in the middle of the night?

Quietly Luana knelt on the sandy beach, lifting her heart in prayer. She asked her Heavenly Father to free her from selfishness and resentment and cruel jealousy of Margaret. Her heart cried out in remorse. She could not bear to feel this way. Her Heavenly Father must know that she was not asking to win the contest for herself, but only for her husband and her children.

(To be concluded)

Exile

Gilean Douglas

And now I go from water — from the sound
Which has caressed me through the nights and days.
My feet will turn to distant, arid ways —
And sometimes stand quite still on desert ground
Because the wind through dusty palms has sighed
Like sleepy water on an ebbing tide.

49
