[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 244 | PDF Page 257]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 244 (PDF page 257) ---
Exalting
the Poor

Presiding Bishop John H. Vandenberg

[Address Delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference,
October 3, 1963]

I feel very humble and grateful, my dear sisters, to participate with you in this conference of Relief Society leaders. It has been suggested that I say something concerning the Relief Society's responsibility toward the welfare program in the wards and stakes of the Church.

One of the distinguishing features of the Church is organization of which the Relief Society is one of the strong facets. The Prophet Joseph Smith said, "I will organize the sisters under the priesthood after a pattern of the priesthood," and then later he said, "This church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized."

One never thinks of welfare work in the Church without thinking of the Relief Society. Elder Albert E. Bowen once said, "A church is an organization for the orderly carrying out of practices enjoined. Organization means order. Lack of it means frustration and chaos. It is important to note that for every command God has given he has provided means for carrying it out."

The Savior was deeply concerned about those in need and gave particular attention to the requirement of taking care of the poor, to those who would serve him. "If thou wilt be perfect," he said to the rich young man, "go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor."

His apostles continued his doctrine. "Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and the widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world."

In this latter day, a special injunction has come to the bishop in "Searching after the poor to administer to their wants." Further, "and it is my purpose to provide for my saints, for all things are mine. But it needs be in mine own way."

The welfare plan is the Lord's own way and encompasses all the instructions that have just been referred to.

President Heber J. Grant declared, "This is one of the greatest and most important things the Church has ever undertaken to put over, and it will be put over because we have the ability and the power to do it."

I like to think that when President Grant spoke of the "ability" he was thinking of the devoted women in the Relief Society with their characteristics of tenderness, mercy, warmth, love, understanding, and ability to "provoke the brethren to good works." When he spoke of the "power" he was thinking of the Priesthood, its organization, and

244
