[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 818 | PDF Page 857]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 818 (PDF page 857) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

October, November, December 1964, will be presented as announced in the June Magazine. The last five of this series of discussions will be reserved for use later. (2) In lieu of these five discussions, planned for January through May 1965, the new coordinated lessons will be taught in the work meeting, the first of which will be published in the November Magazine. The comprehensiveness of these new lessons makes it seem advisable to allow thirty minutes for their presentation in the work meeting rather than the twenty minutes recommended for the present discussions; (3) Beginning in October 1965, the new coordinated lessons will become the social science course and will be presented by the social science class leader October through May, at the regular social science meeting. During the summer months, they will be presented by the social science class leader in the summer work meeting, in a thirty minute period. As you know, no lesson is planned for the fourth week in December. It will be necessary, therefore, to reverse the order of the social science and literature meetings beginning October 1965, in order to accommodate the twelve lessons planned for the coordinated social science course. Only seven lessons will be planned for literature for the 1965-66 year.

The new coordinated lessons will be under the direction of the education counselor. It is recommended that the sisters who teach the coordinated lessons in the work meeting meet in the social science department at the

leadership meeting January through April 1965, and that a portion of the time be used to assist these class leaders. In other words, the stake social science class leader will assist ward class leaders in both the course on Divine Law and Church Government and on the new coordinated lessons.

LESSONS FOR INDIAN RELIEF SOCIETIES

In order to be more helpful to the sisters of the Indian Relief Societies, a lesson manual for the use of these Societies is being issued by the General Board and is available at the General Board office, price $1.25 per copy. The manual contains three sets of lessons as follows:

Theology — eight lessons from The Book of Mormon
Literature — eight lessons on Latter-day Saint Church History
Social Science — seven lessons on The Essentials for Happy Family Living

A set of fourteen pictures; a map for use in the Church history course; and a chart dealing with The Book of Mormon plates suitable to augment the Indian lessons, cost $2.75 plus postage, are available at the Deseret Book Company. Stakes and missions having Indian Relief Societies are urged to encourage their use of these lessons. They should purchase the manual and the visual aids and make regular use of these materials. Some of the Indian sisters may desire to purchase the manual for themselves. A sufficient number has been prepared to allow for this. Indian Relief Societies will use the new coordinated lessons be-

818
