[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 663 | PDF Page 694]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 663 (PDF page 694) ---
MR. LEWIS AND THE RAVENS

from his hip pocket and started to write on it. After a bit, it appeared to be. If you had seen it—on the left side going down the margin, one saw: donkey; shovel; pick; frying pan; canned goods; blanket; chamois skin pouch with $200; rope long enough for a good diamond hitch.

On the right side he wrote, not a balancing list, but more of a memorandum: six weeks milk on the hoof; one screen door with a gate spring on it. Biblical birds—ravens, mother called them.

He tore out the page, then ripped it in half, lengthwise, down which gave him two lists. He handed his manager the left portion and said, "Fix Mister Lewis up with these things, say by sundown. I think he wants to head out into the desert to see what he can find."

He folded the right half of the page and inserted it in the back flap of his billfold. As he turned to greet a paying guest, he smiled. Across his eyes could be seen the look of a boy of seven or eight.

Placing the Relief Society Magazine in Public Libraries

Ferrel Christensen

I recently returned from laboring in the Northern States Mission. While there, one of the things that most impressed itself upon my mind was the fact that many people are far more affected by seeing the gospel in action than they are by doctrinal arguments. For this reason I was very grateful for the copies of The Relief Society Magazine which we had to leave with people. I was only sorry that we didn't have many more. Nothing could be better designed to show the "fruits" of the restoration than The Relief Society Magazine.

Since it is such a wonderful missionary tool, I was often led to wonder if some way could be found to make it available for touching the hearts of more women. The possibility that comes to me recurrently is this: could not subscriptions to the Magazine be given to local libraries around the country?

While I was in Waukegan, Illinois, we visited the town library with this in mind. We showed copies of the magazine to the librarian, who was very much impressed with its quality. She said that they would be delighted to receive this periodical, but could not appropriate money to purchase subscriptions because there was, as yet, no local demand for them. The amount of good that could be accomplished in this way would be tremendous; people who are eager to talk to the missionaries would be attracted by the colorful and interesting magazines, thus opening up previously inaccessible homes to the gospel.

663
