[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 899 | PDF Page 942]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 899 (PDF page 942) ---
1964 RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE

this, a study of the standard works of the Church and recognition of and obedience to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. President Smith, the concluding speaker for this session, contrasted and compared the status of women in the Church in this and previous dispensations; and spoke of the opportunities for the women of the Church for service through the divinely established organization of Relief Society. He referred to this as "a divinely appointed service so essential to the welfare of the Church."

For the general session on Wednesday afternoon, Relief Society members and the general public filled the Tabernacle and extended to an overflow audience in the Assembly Hall, where the conference proceedings were witnessed over television. Relief Society leaders were honored to have in attendance at this and also the preceding session of the conference several members of the General Authorities and their wives.

Of interest at this session was the sustaining of ten new general board members since the previous conference, making a total of forty-seven sisters presently serving on the General Board. Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring addressed this session. She spoke of the strength that comes into our lives through trusting in the Lord when coping with life's sorrows and difficulties.

President Spafford and her counselors gave inspiring messages to the women of the Church. President Spafford emphasized the value to mothers of wise and understanding hearts in training their children in the paths of righteousness. She cited salient teachings of spiritual leaders in this and former dispensations, setting forth guidance in training and rearing children. Counselor Sharp told of the blessings gained through Relief Society in helping women more fully to follow the admonition of the Savior to "take my yoke upon you." Counselor Madsen used as her theme that happiness is the purpose and design of existence and suggested factors essential to the achievement of happiness.

President N. Eldon Tanner, Second Counselor in the First Presidency and the principal speaker at the general session, delivered a moving message. He delighted the vast audience by sharing with them an interesting account of the success of the Singing Mothers Chorus which presented music at the American Mothers Awards Luncheon in New York City in May, and of the larger combined chorus which presented concerts at the New York World's Fair in June. He displayed to those assembled the large scrapbook containing clippings from 372 newspapers throughout the United States and in Canada relative to Relief Society and the Church resulting from the publicity given to these concerts. Elder Tanner then outlined the value of good example among parents in the home in properly influencing and training children.

This inspiring session was concluded by the glorious singing of "Onward Christian Soldiers" by the combined Singing Mothers Chorus from the Deseret, Gunnison, Juab, Millard, North San-

899
