[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 304 | PDF Page 317]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 304 (PDF page 317) ---
APRIL 1964

strange? Meaning no offense to you, Ma'am," he said, nodding politely toward Selena, "but I've been thinking about your sister these past few days, wondering how I could get up the courage to speak to her."

His eyes turned back to Belle, standing open-mouthed before him.

"And now, tonight, she goes and gives me all the encouragement any man would need."

Belle, completely at a loss as to what to do in the face of his open admiration of her, stared. That look in his eyes, she had seen it many times before in the eyes of Selena's suitors, but never until now directed toward her.

"Encouragement? Tonight? Me?" Her words didn't seem coherent. Neither did her whirling thoughts.

"I might have expected you to manage things right well, seeing as how you always do, but I was more than a mite surprised when Selena brought the moccasins. Where you heard about that old Indian custom I don't know, but it makes no difference. I thought we might go for a walk together and be back in time to start the dancing. Even with this sore foot I'm going to dance tonight!"

"Indian custom? What . . . ?"

Selena took her dazed sister by the arm and led her toward the wagon.

"This night air is a little cool. Belle had better get a shawl," she said.

"I'll be waiting right here," said Josiah. "Don't be too long — honey."

Belle choked.

"Selena!" she said. "What's come over him? What happened?"

"I don't know," Selena whispered back, "but pull yourself together. I'll get you my best shawl. Here, take my cornstarch bag and wipe the shine off your face. It will be good for you to be dancing for once, the way you sit here every night and tap your toes."

Selena climbed back out of the wagon, draped the shawl around her sister's shoulders and smoothed Belle's hair.

"There. You look lovely, Belle. Have a good time dancing."

"Dancing! I think he wants to marry me!"

Selena laughed gaily. For the first time in a long while she seemed more sure and more in control of the situation than Belle was.

"Well, what would you think of that?" she asked.

Belle actually trembled. "I think it would be wonderful," she said. "I had no idea Josiah could be so masterful."

THE rest of the trip into the Great Salt Lake Valley was one of complete happiness for Belle. Josiah came every morning to yoke up her oxen for her. The first three mornings he came only to find them all ready to go. Selena took a hand then, suggesting that since Josiah so obviously wanted to help, that she wait the next morning and give him opportunity to do so. The look of satisfaction and pride on his face more than repaid Belle for the inactivity of waiting.

The bond of friendship and understanding between Lon and Belle had deepened as he learned

304
