[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 298 | PDF Page 311]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 298 (PDF page 311) ---
Round Table Togetherness

Violet Nimmo

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of two children at a table, one with back turned wearing a floral pattern top, one facing forward wearing striped shirt]

LAST night after my small son had sat by the dining-room table coaxing me to play a word-game with him, I felt pangs of guilt because I had said, "I'm much too busy."

While working at the task that kept me from my son, my thoughts wandered back to the times when I was a child and had played games with my Mother. I wondered how she had found the time to do so many things with us.

I could see a happy family sitting around the table on a cold winter night. Two of us engaged in a game of ticktacktoe, someone reading a book or studying a lesson for school; the little ones coloring pictures, cutting paper dolls, or creating some piece of childish art from modeling clay.

Now I had a mental image of five exuberant children, glowing faces, folded hands, waiting patiently for a piece of candy that Mother was making from maple sugar and black walnuts. We had all participated in cracking and picking out the nut meats the preceding night.

I thought of the times we sat around the table watching Mother cut out dresses for us, or helped us make doll clothes.

Each of us took his or her place at the table when Mother read a recent letter from Aunt Suzy, or when we had a family discussion on finding the little culprit who had broken the hoe handle or, maybe, a blue willow cup.

I visualized seven bowed heads around that old-fashioned round table, asking the Lord to bless the food of which we were about to partake. Perhaps the meal consisted of a pot of beans, corn bread, and a baked apple for dessert.

The beans and corn had been harvested from our huge vegetable garden where we all shared many happy days of tilling and planting. Mother ground the corn in an old iron grinder.

The apples came from our orchard off trees which were pruned, grafted, and tenderly cared for by our Father. Some people referred to him as Mr. Green Thumb, because he liked to make things grow.

On special holidays, extra leaves were added to that old table. It wore the one and only snowy white

298
