[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 531 | PDF Page 555]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 531 (PDF page 555) ---
JULY 1964

Scottish Mission Visiting Teachers at Convention
March 14, 1964

At the right, former mission presidency: standing (wearing white sweater), Rachel Wilde, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Easton, Counselor; seated: Kathleen S. Farnsworth, former President; right of Sister Farnsworth (front): Elizabeth McKittrick, Counselor.

Sister Farnsworth reports: "A delightful convention and social honoring the visiting teachers of the Scottish Mission was held March 14, 1964, at the mission home. The sisters who attended felt that this was a great success, both in spirit and in numbers present. Most of the sisters present were newly called to serve as visiting teachers. Representatives from most of our twenty branches enjoyed the program and received valuable instructions. Members from each branch present participated in the program which consisted of a tribute and a response; a play 'The Improper and the Proper Ways to Do Visiting Teaching;' 'The Key,' a parable of visiting teaching; a question and answer game on visiting teaching; musical numbers; and the film 'Unto the Least of These.' As a special favor, a daffodil corsage (buttonhole) was pinned on each visiting teacher. Refreshments were served. The mission board members were hostesses for this convention."

Ruby Mildred Haight, wife of the new mission president, David B. Haight, is the present supervisor of Relief Society in the Scottish Mission.

Bonneville Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Convention
November 21, 1963

Left to right: Fay Geary, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society (whose ward had the largest number of visiting teachers attending the convention); Mary Bateman, who has served for fifty-two years; Jeanetta Christensen, who has a record of thirty-nine years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching.

Lucretia M. Evans, President, Bonneville Stake Relief Society, reports: "The visiting teacher convention was held in connection with leadership meeting. Five Relief Society General Board members living within the boundaries of Bonneville Stake, paid glowing tributes to the visiting teachers, each relating some event to stress the importance of the visiting teacher in the Relief Society organization.

"Special tribute was given to our stake visiting teacher message leader Melvira Barlow. Awards of ceramic dolls, typifying visiting teachers, and made by the stake work meeting leader Merelde McKay, were presented as follows: Thirty-Third Ward for having the highest percentage of visiting teachers in attendance; Alberdina Gruman of Douglas Ward for fifty-five years service as a visiting teacher; Mary Bateman of Garden Park Ward for fifty-two years as a visiting teacher; and Jeanetta Christensen of Yale Ward for serving thirty-nine years without interruption.

"A delectable brunch was served to 251 sisters following the program."

532
