[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 24 | PDF Page 25]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 24 (PDF page 25) ---
JANUARY 1964

clothes and brushed their hair, and wondered what was going on inside Michael. She wondered what he meant by asking about the star. The angel had been in her family for generations, but maybe having a star was important, though she couldn't see why. . . .

Long after everyone was tucked in for the night, and long after she should have fallen asleep, she lay wondering about it and then it came to her. The story of the Wise Men, and the story of the Christ Child. And, along with remembering the story, a shame came over her.

Somehow she had become so involved with the cooking and the making, that she had forgotten. Quietly, she slipped out of bed and went into the living room and went over to the little table where she kept her books. She found the Bible and turned the pages, and there in the dimly lighted room, she turned to the Christmas story, and then went to Michael's room. He was sitting on the edge of his bed looking out into the night.

"Michael. . . ." Softly her words went to him, and he didn't move as he answered her.

"What?"
"I've been thinking . . . you know, about the star. . . ."
"I have, too."
"Would you like me to read the story to you?"
"You don't have a Bible. I looked in your bookcase, and I couldn't find one. Aunt Carol, could we go get mine? Mom told me to be sure and read the story each night before bedtime like we do at home."
"I have a Bible, Michael. Mike, you know about my being old-fashioned? Well, I guess I'm really not old-fashioned enough. . . . I had forgotten about the very first Christmas."

Michael turned on the night light and took the book from Carol. "May I read it?"

And as he read the words in hushed tones, Carol knew that it didn't matter what color the Christmas tree was, or if the candles were homemade. It didn't even matter if the children were allowed to put the icicles on the tree, so long as they knew what Christmas was for . . . so long as they were told the story.

New Serial to Begin in February

A new serial YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING, by Hazel Thomson, of Bountiful, Utah, will begin in the February issue of the Magazine. The setting for the story is picturesque San Bernardino, California, in the early days of its settlement, and presents the dramatic development of Selena Baldwin from a frightened and fearful girl into a woman of strength and courage who contends valiantly against a hostile environment and her own shortcomings. Mrs. Thomson is a gifted and experienced writer whose serial "Because of the Word" delighted the readers of the Magazine in 1961.

24
