[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 167 | PDF Page 176]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 167 (PDF page 176) ---
TRAIN UP A CHILD

you may conquer Satan, and that you may escape the hands of the servants of Satan that do uphold his work" (D&C 10:5). Particularly is daily secret and family prayer imperative in this day when the effect of the irreligious trend of the law of the land is to eliminate God and his righteousness from the daily lives and affairs of men.

No wise Latter-day Saint mother with an understanding of the power of prayer and the irreligious trend of our society will fail to train her children to pray. No person has a stronger weapon against the power of evil than he who with unbroken regularity goes night and morning on bended knee before his Heavenly Father in sincere and humble and secret prayer. I challenge anyone to find a delinquent among those who do so.

And mothers, don't underestimate the power of your own prayers in behalf of your children. Remember, it was the prayers of Alma, Senior, in behalf of his wayward son and his companions which sent an angel to bring them to repentance.

There are, of course, many other things the Lord expects us to teach our children which, for want of time, cannot be considered here. They are, however, all to be found in the gospel of Jesus Christ.

How best to teach your children you must yourselves learn through study, experience, and

the guidance of the Holy Spirit which "shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith" (D&C 42:14). Whatever your method, however, this you shall remember: your teaching, to be successful and effective, must convince your children that living the gospel is the way to happiness. If they feel that the discipline to which they are subjected is arbitrary; that without reason it restricts their normal activities and keeps them from enjoying life, they will conform only so long as you have them under your immediate physical control. Thereafter they will rebel and defy you. In some cases they will be worse off for your efforts. The following counsel which he Lord gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith is a sure guide:

No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion, by long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love unfeigned; By kindness, and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile— Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy:

That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death (D&C 121:41-44).

By the exercise of patience, long-suffering, and love, the good will and confidence of our children must be won. Time and understanding must be devoted to

167
