[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 712 | PDF Page 743]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 712 (PDF page 743) ---
LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
                as Seen Through Literature

                                        Elder Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 3: Poetry of Faith in God and Man: Part 1

(Textbook: Out of the Best Books by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas,
                Deseret News Press, Salt Lake City

                For Third Meeting, December 1964

Objective: To show how spiritual values and faith in God
           and man have been expressed through poetry.

OCCASIONALLY in the world of literature there is a writer so gifted and so wise that he seems to speak with a voice of divine authority. Such a writer was William Wordsworth (1770-1850), who, a century and a half ago, created poems of such simple beauty and such enduring truth that their appeal and greatness seem forever assured. If we Latter-day Saints take seriously the Lord's commandment to seek words of wisdom out of the best books, we will do well to study the poems of Wordsworth, for in all literature there are few other first-quality poets who shaped so many religious and ethical truths into works of art. As Samuel Taylor Coleridge says, Wordsworth was "friend of the wise and teacher of the good," who, in Matthew Arnold's words, came to a world of "doubts, disputes, distractions, fears" and brought stability through the "healing power" of his poetry.

ODE: INTIMATIONS OF IMMORTALITY

Wordsworth's poem best known to Latter-day Saints is the famous "Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood," for it is the fullest and most beautiful expression in all literature harmonious with the unique Latter-day Saint doctrine of pre-existence, which extends immortality in both directions, not only forward into post-mortality following death and resurrection, but also backward into pre-mortality before birth. All Christian churches recognize life after death, and many Christian people have a sort of inherent feeling that there is life before birth; but The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints alone teaches as an official doctrine that we mortals existed as individual spirit children with God our Father and exercised our free agency for development in a pre-mortal state.

712
