[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 429 | PDF Page 450]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 429 (PDF page 450) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

the water. "I wonder if they're sure this is the spring that tastes so awful."

Josiah looked at his wife. "Belle, both Brother Lyman and Captain Hunt passed through here not so long ago. I think you can take their word about the water."

"But it looks so good," said Belle, dropping to the ground. "I'll just take a little taste." She cupped her hands and lifted them full to her mouth. Josiah looked at Selena, shaking his head.

"Phew!" Belle exclaimed. "I think I'm poisoned!"

"You heard what Brother Lyman said," Josiah reminded her, "that it was possible to do just that. Only he expected the people to have enough sense not to drink the foul-tasting stuff. It was only the animals that he felt must be kept away from it."

"Salt Springs!" Belle spoke disgustedly. "I thought all along I could stand the taste of a little salt, rather than that hot stuff in the barrels, but this is just terrible. If Bitter Springs tastes any worse than this, I'd like to taste it!"

"And you probably will," her husband agreed.

"We can wash, anyway," Selena said, as she lifted the water to her face. It stung her sunburned cheeks, but still she welcomed having her face feel clean once more. When there was time she would wash her hair. Right now there were other things to be washed.

"Come on, Selena," said her sister. "Let's get our clothes that need it the worst and get busy before the spring gets too crowded."

THE stop there was only for the night, and on the morning they began making their weary way on toward Bitter Springs. The sparse growth of salt grass that they found now offered no hopes of replenishing their fast-diminishing hay supply. There was no riding in the wagons now. The sandy floor of the desert was left behind and the road lay continually uphill, the rocky terrain making walking difficult.

Selena found herself thinking that this part of the journey was something of a triumph; that nothing she would ever experience in the future in the way of physical discomfort would probably equal this. Her tongue began to feel swollen and thick and her parched lips broke into blisters. For two days she had not seen Alfred and was glad that she did not have to smile at his jests.

Talking began to take too much effort in the blazing sun and it was a quiet, solemn group who toiled on in the intense heat. That night was a dry camp, for the entire water supply was exhausted. Then, when the news was sent back that the Mojave River was within the day's journey, cheers were given and steps quickened, glad that stops such as the one at Bitter Springs had been brief.

Belle saw Quale that night returning toward their wagon with Selena. Belle watched her sister smiling up into the man's lowered face. Impatiently, Belle wished for the remainder of the trip to be done with so that Lon could be around permanently. Events were moving swiftly toward some kind of crisis. Belle wondered what it would be.

(To be continued)

429
