[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 238 | PDF Page 247]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 238 (PDF page 247) ---
MARCH 1964

Painting With Glass
(Continued from page 202)

Throughout the project, the interest of neighbors and friends has been aroused, and their curiosity has led them to the homes where the pictures were being assembled. The pleasant hours with new friends was an unexpected by-product. The heavy work of the project fell on a few, but there were many who enjoyed and benefited from this productive experience.

The Happy Ending

Such a personal feeling goes into each picture that the sisters regret parting with their creations! However, when a well-known Washington, D. C., Savings and Loan Company offered to display ten pictures in their attractive, busy Connecticut Avenue window, with spotlights on them at night, the "apron strings" were happily cut, and the sisters' "brain children" went on display, with prices ranging from $45 to $175. It is difficult to know which caused the most surprise, the $500 obtained from the immediate sale, or the horribly skeptical husbands registered when the pictures sold! This was one project where the makers didn't have to buy back their own productions.

Currently, the same Loan Company has asked for more pictures, and they have arranged a display in three of their busy locations. One display is just two blocks from the White House. The inquiries about the pictures bring them sufficient business so that they do not charge a commission for selling.

College Park Relief Society women had worked diligently to contribute to the building and furnishing of their new chapel, and for the room furnishings, kitchen equipment, and stainless steel service for 200. The money from the sale of the pictures gave the sisters the thrill of having cash for a luxury. It was invested in silver serving pieces for refreshment tables, including silver punch bowls and assorted sizes of silver trays. They wisely spent their money for luxuries only after the necessities and needs of the operating budget had been met.

As with all creative work, glass picture-making requires time and thought. To the neophyte, it may be work, but with practice and experience it becomes a fascinating art — rewarding as a means of expression and in the creation of something lovely, unique, and of value in the home or on the market. The bonus surprise of attracting new friends to Relief Society is a priceless reward of love in action.

238
