[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 277 | PDF Page 290]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 277 (PDF page 290) ---
PLEASE, NOT THIS ONE

cheek and raised a hand to conceal her face.

"What happened?" she whispered, sick with grief. She felt her gentle pressure of a hand on her shoulder, and looking up met the doctor's unflinching gaze.

THERE was such concern there that she felt sorry for him and guilty also that she was causing him such anxiety.

"We don't know how or why these things happen," he said gently, "perhaps she'll be all right. We'll just have to wait and see." But she had again covered her face, seeking privacy.

"You had better put her to bed," he directed softly.

The table moved and she let herself sink back into blessed unawareness. She was dimly aware of gentle hands moving her, pillows flattened, and the warmth of heated blankets tucked around her. Someone was crying, somewhere. Such heartbroken sobs. She wished they would stop. She didn't like to hear anyone cry.

Something terrible must have happened, she thought. She opened her eyelids with great effort and discovered with surprise that it was she crying. She stopped abruptly, ashamed of her lack of control. Why was she crying? For herself? The baby? Disappointment? The uncertainty of the situation? She didn't know. She turned toward the sanctuary of the wall and invited the soothing balm of semi-consciousness again, but it was gone. It wouldn't return. So, there was to be no going back. What was ahead? It had finally happened to her. She, too, had given birth to an imperfect child. That

much was a fact, but would it live? If it did, then what? Had they called her husband? Had they told him? What would he think? There were too many questions. She closed her eyes and hid her face in the pillow.

Immediately she saw the baby. She opened her eyes frantically. She would not feel the same way about this baby as she had the others. She would not love it or get attached to it, that was her only hope. Then, if the baby should die, the loss wouldn't be so painful. She nodded her head firmly. Yes! That was the only way.

SHE raised herself heavily and reached for the glass and tube beside the bed. The water tasted so good. Would she ever get enough? She fell back and again turned her face to the wall. Weariness, physical and emotional, overcame her and she drifted gently away.

A hand on her shoulder, a gentle kiss on her cheek, pulled her out of the dark comfortable nothing. She came reluctantly. Looking up into her husband's brown eyes searchingly, she knew immediately that they hadn't told him.

"Another girl, huh?" Hal grinned. "When are you going to add a little variety to this family of ours?" She tried to smile but her face crumpled as she began to weep. Her arms reaching desperately pulled him close. She couldn't bear to have even him see the hurt in her face. He drew back in alarm.

"Hey, honey, what's the matter?" He slipped an arm under

277
