[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 364 | PDF Page 381]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 364 (PDF page 381) ---
Appetite Teasers for Preschoolers

Margaret Maxwell

[ILLUSTRATION]

Meal planning is sometimes a problem for the busy mother of a preschool child. What can she fix that is nutritious and appealing to the older members of the family, and yet is suitable and tempting fare for a small child? The preschooler, even more than the adult, must have a diet which includes a generous supply of foods chosen from the basic four groups: milk, meat and eggs, vegetables and fruits, and bread and cereal products. Yet, as every mother knows, the very foods that are most important to good, all-around nutrition for the preschooler are often those which he likes the least. However, food can be served to the small child in such a way that he will naturally develop good eating habits that will benefit him throughout his life.

Introduce new foods to the preschooler casually, without special comment. It is helpful if the rest of the family is in the habit of trying new dishes with enthusiasm, as such an attitude is contagious. Serve only one new food at a time, in a small helping, preferably with an old favorite to go along with it. It

is good psychology, if the child rejects the new food, to remove it without comment. Sometimes the casual remark, "I'm not at all surprised you don't like this. This is grown-up food," will make a child have second thoughts about the new dish. Try the new food again in a couple of weeks. The results may be altogether different.

The younger child, who is still learning to manipulate eating utensils successfully, finds it a welcome relief to be served food which may be picked up with his fingers. Crisp foods, such as carrot sticks, celery sticks, and toast cut in quarters or strips are easy to eat and generally popular. Hard-cooked egg cut in quarters, strips of raw, peeled apple, cooked whole green beans, and asparagus spears add interest to the toddler's diet.

For the mother of the "picky" eater, here are a few hints. A small, child-size plastic glass, or a cup from a set of play dishes, which can be filled and refilled by the child himself from a little pitcher, may encourage the milk-hater to drink his quota of milk without a protest. A

364
