[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 772 | PDF Page 807]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 772 (PDF page 807) ---
OCTOBER 1964

Winter Quarters Stake (Nebraska) Relief Society Achievement Day
May 2, 1964

Second row, seated (back of the children), left to right: Beverly Nye, Magazine representative; Afton Hardy, Education Counselor; Evelyn Doty, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Wakefield, social science class leader; Blanche Rawlings, President; Delores Alred, Work Director Counselor.

Sister Rawlings reports: "The Winter Quarters Stake Relief Society sponsored an 'Achievement Day.' A program and the film 'The Awakening' were enjoyed in the morning, and a luncheon was served at noon. In the afternoon a fashion show was presented by the ward and branch Relief Societies. The sisters and their children modeled the clothing they had made during the winter. A fine display of bazaar items was shown. Approximately one hundred attended, and the success was most gratifying. Winter Quarters Stake is three years old, and there are six wards and six branches."

Berlin Stake (Western Germany) Relief Society Singing Mothers
Present Music for Quarterly Conference
March 22, 1964

Seated, fourth from the right in the front row: Mary R. Young, member of the General Board of Relief Society; second from Sister Young, on the left: Else Durr, President, Berlin Stake Relief Society; Ilse Thiede, organist, stands in the second row at the right; Jean A. Jensen, chorister, stands in the front row, fifth from the right; Sarah L. Johnson of the General Board of the Primary Association, front row, third from the right; Counselor Else Buechereite, stands in the last row, second from the right; Frieda Pflugardt, Secretary-Treasurer, stands in the back row, first on the left.

Sister Durr reports that this conference was a joyful and spiritually uplifting occasion. The German Relief Society sisters were delighted to meet Sister Young and to associate with her during the conference sessions. "The numbers presented by the Singing Mothers were beautifully rendered and well received. This was an outstanding accomplishment, considering the difficulties of distance and transportation."

University West Stake (Utah) Honors Officers, Visiting Teachers,
and Class Leaders at Luncheon, May 2, 1964

Front row, seated, left to right: Carrie M. Linford; Lila D. Harrison; Isabel D. McGregor; Camilla E. Kimball.

Back row, standing, left to right: Evoline M. Riding; Agnes R. Frazer; Esther M. Tidwell; Edyth J. Romney, Secretary-Treasurer, University West Stake Relief Society; Annie M. Ballantyne, President; Sara M. Creer, First Counselor; Gyneth E. Hunter, Second Counselor.

Sister Ballantyne reports: "The University West Stake Relief Society Board honored with a luncheon and program all the ward officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers of the stake on May 2, 1964. There were 240 in attendance, including special guests Camilla Eyring Kimball; Stake President Lamont Peterson and his Counselors Milton G. Thackeray and Merrill G. Wood; and Stake High Council Advisor to Relief Society Thomas B. Montgomery. At a meeting following the luncheon, Sister Kimball related some of her experiences visiting Relief Society organizations in different parts of the world and displayed some articles produced by them.

"Of the visiting teachers present, six had served for fifty years or more: Carrie Merrill Linford, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Lila Dansie Harrison, North Thirteenth Ward, fifty-two years; Isabel Durham McGregor, West Twelfth Ward, sixty years; Evoline Mann Riding, West Twelfth Ward, fifty-two years; Agnes Rufi Frazer, West Eleventh Ward, fifty years; Esther Milner Tidwell, East Twelfth Ward, fifty-one years."

772
