[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 340 | PDF Page 357]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 340 (PDF page 357) ---
MAY 1964

too many objects. Look for simplicity of design. There should be a focal point — a way to get "into" a picture. For example, in a landscape, let the eye follow down a road, or a stream, or the sun path on a lake, or, maybe, down a street or a path in the woods. Beautiful shape and color lines can claim artistic value, but they should not be spoiled by being too ornate. Overdecoration in anything reflects lack of taste and discrimination — in a home as well as in pictures.

Rhythm and Movement

In evaluating a painting, an artist will be aware of the qualities of rhythm and movement in the picture and will feel the texture of different objects. Now perhaps you are thinking, "Texture and movement, and color and shadow I can understand, but what about rhythm?" Artists tell us that rhythm is the quality of flowing lines, of lovely curves and shapes that answer and complement each other. The changing shape of clouds makes a kind of rhythm, flowers have different rhythms, as the daisy has a circular rhythm, the blades of grass growing together have an upreaching rhythm. So, in drawing flowers, the leaves and main line of growth must repeat each other in pattern, and the pattern should be accentuated in the drawing.

Arrangement of Objects

When an artist looks at a painting or a landscape to paint, he is attracted not only by objects, but by the arrangement of what he sees. Objects are grouped together to form a particular landscape, as trees, fields,

and rocks. He sees also an arrangement of qualities in color and line. He sees objects in relation to their background and surroundings. He sees the green of the trees in relation to the green or blue or purple of the distant hills. He sees the vertical lines of the trunks of the trees in relation to the horizontal lines of the lake shore or the horizon. All this beauty reaches out to him, and he feels it and wants to express it on his canvas.

Painting Is a Natural Impulse

Perhaps, if we learn to see things as the artist sees them, and to understand art, we, too, may have the urge to paint what we see. Do I hear you say, "Oh, I could never paint a picture!" How do you know? Have you ever tried? One of the greatest teachers of drawing in America, said that the impulse to draw is as natural as the impulse to talk. We learn to talk by simple words and sounds at first, and by much repetition, and we can learn to draw and paint in the same way. True, few of us may become great artists, but just beginning to paint can be a rewarding experience, and a world of pleasure can be derived from it. Don't worry if, for the first few months, your drawing doesn't resemble anything called art. It has been said that the sooner you make your first five thousand mistakes, the sooner you can correct them.

I know a woman who did not even try to paint until she was forty years of age. Her mother's poor health made it necessary for her to give up her office work and stay home to take care of her. She needed something to

340
