[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 579 | PDF Page 606]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 579 (PDF page 606) ---
MISTER LEWIS AND THE RAVENS

The proprietor of the store, to which the spring and the door belonged had tried other sorts of wires, girlish in coiled power, but ever and ever he was calling after customers, "Shut the door!" Depending upon the sex or refinement of the offender, he added an expletive for emphasis. Only last week he had attached a spring, a gate-sized thing which he attached to the door with great screws. It bade fair to tear the door apart. To prevent this, the man had crossbraced it with two iron bars.

The boy, Hebe by name, decided to set the eggs down, open the door, prop it open with his leg, then twist himself about, pick up the basket, and squeeze himself through. He hoped to do all this before anyone saw him. Therefore, with his plan in mind, he rested, paused, drew a deep breath, wiped his trembling fingers across his shirt, hitched up his pants, and turned to grasp the door handle.

He jerked with his whole weight and strength. The door loosened first from the top corner, then reluctantly from the lower edge. The boy inserted his knee in the space then shouldered in his body. The bear trap was open at last. He turned himself about to pick up the basket of eggs.

They were nowhere in sight! He cried out involuntarily. He squeezed himself out of the door and it shot to a close behind him. He took a step or two to the end of the porch. There was his basket as if it had taken legs and walked! He picked it up and turned to try the door again. He looked about him to make sure no one was near.

This time he put the basket next to the frame of the door where he could see it at every move. At this try he knew more exactly how much strength to use. He opened the thing, put his knee in, and stooped to grasp the basket. As he did so, a pair of manured boots cast a shadow at his feet. As if caught in the act, the man straightened up and dusted off his pants leg with the hand that had almost grasped the basket. The boy knew who had moved the eggs the first time.

The squinted, crafty glint in the prankster's eyes matched his shiftless gait and his asthmatic gurgle. He was self-satisfied at having caused mischief to one who could not possibly pay in kind. He became emboldened as the boy, in speechless surprise, stepped aside to let him pass. In doing so, the lad lost his leverage on the spring and the door banged shut in a volume of sound that shook the walls.

At that instant the tormentor opened the door and stepped inside. As he did so he threw a hook latch into an eye of a screw. The boy did not see this motion, but proceeded again to attempt an entrance. His tug at the handle brought the most startling of results.

First, from within came a great horse laugh of triumph. The boy determined to give up his errand and return home. He picked up his basket, but at a deafening sound of fury from within, from quite another voice, he paused, stupefied. He peered through the two thicknesses of rusted screen. He was fascinated by the promise of tumult and catastrophe.

(To be concluded)

579
