[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 616 | PDF Page 643]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 616 (PDF page 643) ---
AUGUST 1964

Southwest Indian Mission, Chinle Branch (Arizona) Relief Society Members
Who Sponsored a Rummage and Bake Sale

Front row, left to right: Louise Yazzi; Louise Brown; Yanahah Begay; Sister Tose; Anne Dick.

Back row, left to right: Bonnie Vandiviere, President, Chinle Branch Relief Society; Pauline Dawes; Colleen Hilquist; Margaret Flake; Agnes Deadman; Hazel Lewis, missionary; Susie Little, missionary; Selina Begay.

Elizabeth M. Baird, President, Southwest Indian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The group in the picture is smaller than usual. It has been difficult to get all of the sisters of this branch together for a picture, usually at least twenty are in attendance. I quote from a letter from the president of the branch: 'We had our clothes washed and ironed, and they were all good clothes. We had a large rack to hang all of our nicest ones on. It looked like a small store, with the clothing and delicious baked goods. The Lord really blessed us, and it brought us together in a feeling of love for each other and the gospel.'"

June Young (not in the picture) is the president of the Chinle District Relief Society.

North Box Elder Stake (Utah), Outstanding Attendance at
Corinne Second Ward Literature Meeting, April 1963

Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Corinne Second Ward Relief Society, under the direction of President Grace Jeppesen and her counselors Lila Wright and Lorna Reader, is busy compiling information and collecting pictures for a Relief Society History Book. It will contain historical accounts, as well as photographs depicting the progress of the organization.

"The above picture will add to the interest of the book, as it shows an outstanding attendance at the April 1963 literature meeting. There were forty-one out of fifty enrolled members present, and twenty-seven children enjoyed activities in the nursery. Present when the picture was taken were all members of the immediate past presidency, the present presidency, and all class leaders. Also present was Sister Ellen Mangum, age eighty-four, the eldest Relief Society member in the ward."

Northern Far East Mission, Iwakuni (Japan) Relief Society Bazaar
October 27, 1963

Left to right: Pauline Johnson, President; Velma J. Bell, First Counselor; Janet Rexford, Second Counselor; Zella Cleary, work meeting leader. Seated: Lynn M. Champagne, Secretary.

Former members Wendy Olmstead and Marjorie Perry also contributed to the success of this bazaar.

Peggy H. Anderson, Relief Society Supervisor, Northern Far East Mission, reports: "This group of women is representative of many small groups of service-connected Relief Societies operating throughout the Northern Far East Mission. Even though their numbers are small, sometimes three to seven or eight women, still they carry out the full program of Relief Society each year. These groups are made up of wives of American servicemen serving in the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines in the Far East. They are a great strength to the mission and have been instrumental by which many converts have been baptized into the Church in this mission. The example of the faithful serviceman and his family does more than any other thing to convince people of the divinity of the Church. Some of these small groups of women are located in very isolated areas of Japan, and their association together through the program of Relief Society is a tremendous strength to each of them. They are a fine example to the Japanese Relief Societies also and are assisting in the program among the local people."

616
