[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 692 | PDF Page 723]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 692 (PDF page 723) ---
SEPTEMBER 1964

and wiggly, placed in an aluminum plate waiting for the birds. When I had disposed of all the bodies I breathed deeply, knowing that my son was growing up. I hoped for an early winter.

Christmas came and went and so did the Christmas trees — they went out of the houses and into our yard.

"I'm making a tree house," Charles explained.

Isn't that cute? I thought, seeing five or six trees piled in the backyard. "The Boy Scouts will come and take them this Saturday." I went about my work until I noticed a green column like a procession of parasol ants, headed for my back yard. It was a parade of little boys lugging and pulling on sleds — more Christmas trees. I gasped when I looked outside. It looked like a Christmas tree lot in November. I called the Scout leader to make sure the Scout troop didn't miss our house when they disposed of the trees. Then I proceeded to disband the army of solemn-faced little boys who were only following General Charles' command.

THE next summer brought the butterflies, but this was a passing phase, and only minor in comparison to the rocks.

"Look at this beautiful rock," Charles said, turning the small pebble in the sun. I was delighted that the insect collecting would soon be replaced.

His father took him to a museum and showed him the different minerals and metals, the hard rocks and the soft rocks. Something in my son's head started to turn. The next day I found a

bushel basketful of dirty rocks on my porch.

"Who put these rocks here?" I demanded.

"It's my collection," said Charles. "They're very valuable rocks."

I also found a collection of rocks in his pockets and in his shoes.

"It's just a passing phase," said his father. "It will pass like the others. I had hobbies as a boy. Every boy needs a hobby."

This sounded sensible. Sensible, that is, until I found a second bushel basketful of rocks on the porch. While I was deciding whether to have a rock garden or start whirling missiles, my doorbell rang.

A little boy, aged five, stood there, a large box in his hands. "Charles wants my rock collection," he said. "Mamma said I could share with him." As I stood with my mouth open, a troop of other small fry marched to the rock basket and distributed their contributions.

That night my husband looked at the growing rock mound and reached an immediate decision. "The rocks will have to go!"

"Can't I have any?" Charles pleaded, the tears filling his eyes.

We took a look at the rocks, then at his pleading face.

"You may select twenty-five rocks," we decided.

It was a hard decision. Each rock was more beautiful than the last one. But the next day all but twenty-five rocks were gone. They barely filled the bottom of the bushel basket.

A few days later I looked outside when I heard the familiar squeak of my son's wagon.

692
