[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 284 | PDF Page 297]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 284 (PDF page 297) ---
APRIL 1964

on the front gate squeaked its warning.

"Aunt Em," she said in a small tight voice, "he's here!"

"Now, Laura," Aunt Em soothed, placing her hand on Laura's arm, "just do your best and everything will go fine. Just be yourself, child."

"I'll try, Aunt Em, I'll try," Laura replied. "I'll take the crook to the spring house and be right in."

She could hear Aunt Em greet their guest as she closed the kitchen door softly and hurried down the path. She pulled the wooden peg and swung the heavy door wide, letting the bright morning sun make checkered patterns on the hard-packed dirt floor. Quickly she placed the butter crock in the screened food safe, and took one last admiring look at the cut glass plate on the top shelf.

Neat rows of daintily decorated cup cakes were ready to be served at refreshment time.

Aunt Em had discouraged Laura about making the fancy pastries, but Laura insisted she wanted to go to the trouble, and had been finishing the last of the decorating when Aunt Em arose this morning.

"I'll show William that I can serve the fanciest cakes in Spring City," she reassured herself. "I'll bet they are as delicate and tasty as any he ever had back in St. Louis, too."

There was time for only a quick pat at the wisps of hair that escaped the bone hairpins, as she tidied herself at the marble washstand. Secretly, Laura had been longing to cut her hair, just a bit, and use rag curlers to do her hair in the fashionable ringlet style, but Papa would never permit it.

Laura doffed the wrinkled coverall and tied her best embroidered half apron about her slender waist. She had best not dawdle. She could hear Aunt Em and William talking in the sitting room.

Laura entered the room quietly. Brother Barker crossed the sitting room in four long strides and clasped her hand in a crushing handshake.

"Brother Barker," she smiled, "how nice to see you."

"Good morning, Sister Laura," he replied, his blue eyes sparkling merrily. "I've just been telling Sister Grant how grateful I am that you would let me come this morning."

This morning, Laura thought, this very morning, and all the witty, clever sentences she had practiced last night, left her completely.

The force of Brother Barker's greeting brought fresh doubt about the next few hours. It was hard, knowing that William had been courting several other young ladies. Now it was Laura's turn, and it wouldn't have been so bad, except that she was in love with William. From the first time she had noticed him sitting so attentively at sacrament meeting that Thursday evening, six months ago, she had hoped that he would find it possible to return the affection she felt for him.

William had been walking Laura home from church for several months, now, but he occasionally walked other young

284
