[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 722 | PDF Page 757]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 722 (PDF page 757) ---
From Near and Far

Thank you for giving so much enjoyment in our little Magazine. Just this morning I picked up the June Magazine and received a most wonderful feeling, especially when I looked at the sweet face of Sister McKay.
Mrs. James Heusser
Murray, Utah

I am deeply touched and made happy by the beautiful cover of the July Magazine. It brought to mind vivid memories of the many years when I lived on North State Street in Salt Lake City, Utah. I have said many times that my children were partly reared on the Capitol grounds, and it is true. The frontispiece picture "Spinning the Threads of Time" and the lovely poem "For a Grandchild," by Dorothy J. Roberts are delightful.
Harmana S. Teerlink
San Jose, California

Thank you for your loving tributes to mothers in your many beautiful articles in the May issue. I thought of my own mother as I read it through and wished that I could express my feelings for her as was so beautifully written. The Magazine is like having a little visit from my mother each month as it is a gift from her and contains wisdom and beauties and inspiration that seem to be a part of mothers like mine.
Ellen June Barrus
San Jose, California

I would like to thank you for the wonderful April short story "Please, Not This One," by Merle E. Feriante. I am sure all mothers have feared that this might happen and have wondered how they could accept it. I thank you for the beautiful thought. As the mother of four little daughters, I am so thankful for the Magazine and its thought-provoking stories. I am enjoying the serial "Your Heart to Understanding," by Hazel M. Thomson very much.
Mrs. Russell Nelson
Jerome, Idaho

I just had to sit down and tell you how much I enjoy reading our wonderful Relief Society Magazine — halfway around the world. I can hardly wait each month to get my copy — each one with such lovely, inspiring lessons, articles, stories, and poems. Hearing about the Church throughout the world surely warms the heart when you are so far away from home.
Mrs. Zola Beals
Abadan, Iran

My wife is the Palo Alto Stake Relief Society theology class leader, and we study and enjoy the lessons together. I have been reading parts of the Magazine myself for years, and I feel that it is an outstanding contribution to the Church.
Leon Hartshorn,
Director
Institute of Religion
Palo Alto, California

I have been a member of this great Church for fourteen years and have since then enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine and the wonderful stories printed therein. I do not know how many of the brethren read the Magazine, but my wife says she doesn't know whom the Magazine is for her or me. I take it with me when I go to my factory and on long trips and get great spiritual enlightenment from it.
Hugh H. Nepier
Auckland, New Zealand

The poems in The Relief Society Magazine are so inspiring. I especially enjoy the poems of Alice Morrey Bailey, which seem to lift me up. The Magazine is very choice in all its aspects and departments — a blessing to the lives of Latter-day Saint women, as well as to their families.
Alice Lowe Corbett
Salmon, Idaho

722
