[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 332 | PDF Page 349]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 332 (PDF page 349) ---
MAY 1964

verbs, and including phrases as well as words.

A good vocabulary includes the knowledge of the different meanings of a word. Merriam-Webster's Unabridged lists at least thirteen different meanings for the word take. You should study, at the same time, the values in letters and their play on the emotions. There are liquid sounds like l and r, sibilants like s, dentals like d and t. Live with them, roll them around on your tongue, feel them, so that when you need them they cluster around a thought as iron filings collect on a magnet.

THIRD — Be natural. Write in the language of today as you speak, not in the vintage of an older day when words like o'er and e'er were in common usage and so are found in poetry also. Above all, let your language be sincere and natural, not necessarily conscious of being written.

FOURTH — Read, read, and read. Especially read history, geography, the classics, and the Bible. Familiarize yourself with the general sciences — botany, geology, ornithology, and with philosophies and doctrines. From these spring your future allusions and images, and knowledge deepens your thinking and enhances your expression.

FIFTH — Be aware. Make friends with all the living things about you. Know the shape of a leaf, its feel and texture; know the grasses, the bark of trees. Be aware of color in everything, petals, sky, old wood, rushes and reeds, earth and sea, everywhere. Become acutely aware of sounds and forms. Increase your interest and wonder. And store all

this as naturally as your body accepts its food.

SIXTH — Write. Try out various meters, verse and stanza forms. Try out your thoughts. Let them flow. Criticize your technique afterward, but do not let it impede the flow.

SEVENTH — and perhaps most important — Find the inner you. Let your thoughts sink into "I" the "I" beyond" where you, and only you, dwell, so that the flavor of you is a part of every poem you write, not what you have been taught, or have read or heard, but really you. The savor of your experiences, your interpretations, incidents seen through your eyes, and your appreciation of your world, must enrich your poem.

An Illustration

Let us illustrate the birth of a minor poem. Let us say, "Today has been a golden day." We have the beginning of a lyric, a four-footed iambic line. Now particularize, and the poem grows. What was golden about this day? "A lark sent up a trill, and notes like golden music rolled back down the sky's blue hill." Now we have the color blue contrasting with the goldenness of sound and emphasizing it. What else? "Two finches shunted nuggets back and forth from throat to throat, and birch lace sifted sunlight fine to gild a warbler's coat." Now we have enriched the vocabulary of gold with nugget and gild, and the words shunted and sifted which are more effective than adjectives in describing what is happening. Wings and movement have entered the picture. Sunlight is there with its

332
