[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 322 | PDF Page 339]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 322 (PDF page 339) ---
From Near and Far

The Magazine is now an integral part of my life, and I look forward so much to receiving my copies. I pass them on to my Relief Society sisters so that they may enjoy the lessons, and then they always manage to read the Magazine from cover to cover. May you go from strength to strength with this wonderful Magazine, and continue to bring joy to us all.

Olive M. Evans
Lichfield, Staffordshire
England

My heart went out to Sister Lundgren when I read her article in the January issue of the Magazine — "What Is a Work Meeting Leader?" She put into words what I have felt in my heart. Thanks to the wonderful counselors and stake leaders I had while serving as a work leader, and also my work leader, while I was work director counselor, that I have this warm feeling for Relief Society.

Mrs. Donaldine J. Boase
Salt Lake City, Utah

As each March 10th arrives, a white card is placed in my mailbox announcing the renewal of subscription for the most interesting Magazine I have ever read — a gift from my wonderful mother, for many years — The Relief Society Magazine. From its pages have come comforting thoughts and truths, which stand as a witness for the salvation of man.

Irene Carrigan Winn
Ogden, Utah

I want to thank you for our beautiful, inspiring Magazine. I wait impatiently each month for the Magazine and the words of love and advice it contains.

Shirley Woolf
Bulawayo, Southern Rhodesia
South Africa

I want to let you know how very much I do enjoy reading the Magazine. Each article holds so much meaning and seems to give me an extra extra special lift. I was married last September, and my mother gave me a year's subscription to the Magazine as a Christmas present. I cannot think of a better gift.

Mrs. Dale Hamp
Soda Springs, Idaho

This little booklet (The Relief Society Magazine) has been appreciated so much. When I have failed to make any headway with my friends in putting forward the Latter-day Saint story, I find the Magazine speaks to them in the lovely stories and the articles.

Margaret McLintock
Rutherglen, Scotland

Over the years, as a Relief Society worker, I have used the thoughts of Celia Luce (a frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine) many times in conducting a class.

Venice M. Crosby
Phoenix, Arizona

I was delighted to read in the March issue of the Magazine the article (by Myrtle E. Henderson) on the proper use of language. Some of the mistakes most often made were considered. Please give us more such helps. We should take more pride in speaking correctly. Perhaps, if our errors are pointed out, and the reasons why they are not correct are explained, we will improve more rapidly. As a Magazine representative, I find it easy to get new subscriptions, as well as renewals, to our Magazine because of the excellent helps and the wide range and interest of those helps.

Olive H. Fox
Salt Lake City, Utah

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. Phone EMpire 4-2511. Subscriptions 2642, Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year, 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
