[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 845 | PDF Page 884]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 845 (PDF page 884) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

he said, "Auf wiedersehen — and thanks for one of the loveliest days in all my life."

"And mine," she replied. "Auf wiedersehen."

She ran up the steps, and when she entered the house was surprised to see Karl sitting at the supper table with her mother and Maria.

"Hello," she said, slipping off her sweater and joining them at the table. "Aren't you eating awfully late?"

"Yes," agreed her mother. "We have been working as long as the light lasted. Karl has been helping us to clean up the garden and put in some tomato plants. He has been working here all day." Her tone implied "While you have been gallivanting off up the river."

"How good of you," said Elsa smiling. "You must come and help us eat all the tomatoes. If they grow, that is," she added mischievously.

"They will grow," Karl answered emphatically. "That I promise. They must grow if I am to help you eat them. I will watch over them like a fond parent."

KARL left soon after they were through eating, saying that he would look in after his plants very often.

No sooner was he out of earshot than Sister Breinholt said, with a deep sigh of satisfaction, "My, but that is a fine young man!"

"And handsome," added Maria. "Of course, he isn't quite so tall as Clay, but he has beautiful hair — so thick and almost black. And he has a wonderful smile."

As her mother looked to her for confirmation, Elsa agreed heartily. "Yes, he is indeed. I hope that he does well in his work here. And he will surely be a great help in the branch."

"All day he worked in the garden," said Sister Breinholt, nodding vigorously. "And what do you think! He has promised to build us a small greenhouse. Then we can have vegetables and fruits early in the season. He thinks that he can do it for about two hundred marks. That would mean only a little more than fifteen dollars from each one of us."

Elsa hated to throw a damper on her enthusiasm, but she knew that this was the time. She drew a deep breath and said, "I'm sorry, Mother, but I cannot help. I am going to save as much as I can. In the fall I may have a chance to go to America."

"Go to America!" exclaimed her mother, as if such adventures were completely unknown. "Why in the world would you want to do that?"

Elsa sighed. They had been over this ground many times before. But before it had been only a dream. Now it could easily become a reality.

"You know why I want to go. Because there is opportunity there for young people. Our grandfather left everything here to go over and help build up the Church and the State. His sons and grandsons have reaped all the benefits so far. I would like to share in it, too. I think that he would like to have me share in it."

"But you have so much here," her mother went on incredulous-

845
