[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 25 | PDF Page 26]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 11%]

--- PAGE 25 (PDF page 26) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind/embracing a globe of the Earth]

BELLE S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, represented Relief Society at the meetings of the National Council of Women of the United States, in New York City, in October. President Spafford delivered a keynote address at luncheon, on October 9th, in which she emphasized the duties of membership, saying, "... we must see ourselves as a united body of women working together to serve society, equally responsible with our elected officers for the maintenance and success of the Council, unique among women's organizations."

MRS. Maria Goeppert Mayer, born in Germany, now an American citizen, shared the 1963 Nobel prize for physics ($51,158) with Dr. Eugene P. Wigner. The only woman besides Madame Curie (1903) to win the Nobel physics prize, Mrs. Mayer was honored for research showing that atomic nuclei are built of onionlike layers of neutrons and protons held together by complicated forces. Her theory has explained many nuclear properties.

MRS. Maria Isabel de Atiles Moreu of Puerto Rico won the Lane Bryant individual award for volunteer service and was given $1,000 at the announcement meeting in New York City in November. The award was in recognition of Mrs. Moreu's work in establishing rehabilitation centers for handicapped children and adults. Mlle. Denise Legrix of France won the International Volunteer award for her fundraising campaign which resulted in the building of France's first orthopedic center for handicapped children.

VALENTINA Tereshkova, the Soviet cosmonette and first woman in the world to make a space flight married, on November 2, 1963, Soviet Cosmonaut Andrian Nikolayev, in one of Moscow's two "palaces of marriage." Valentina expects to make more difficult space flights in the future.

A FEW women, for the first time in history, will be added to the very special group of men permitted to attend the Ecumenical Council of the Catholic Church as lay auditors or delegates, Pope Paul VI has announced.

25
