[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 705 | PDF Page 736]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 705 (PDF page 736) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

expected by those who observe the full requirements. On the other hand, as in the case of these brethren, disobedience brings loss of calling, as well as being turned over to the buffetings of Satan. (Verse 12.)

THE CHURCH INDEPENDENT

All blessings and promises of the Lord are fulfilled upon obedience to the principles upon which they are predicated. In 1832, the Lord promised the saints that by obedience to the law of consecration the Church would become independent above all other creatures on the earth. (D&C 78:13-14.) Although the members of that early period did not obey the covenant of consecration, the promise is still in effect. The Church is today a light unto the world, and it will continue to be a standard for the nations. (Ibid., 115:4-6.) When the Lord's organization becomes the power in the world it is destined to be, it will then be independent from all other organizations, whether political, financial, or industrial. (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 482.) In connection with these ideas and, particularly, the place of the Church as a light for the world, Elder John A. Widtsoe said:

Some day the world under stern necessity will adopt and practice the economic program known to the Church as the United Order—but in a manner wholly different from Socialism or Communism (Joseph Smith, page 197).

One should remember that the Lord has commanded us to be united as a people that salvation may be ours and that his work may make the necessary progress

for the betterment of mankind. Such unified action would contribute to the prophesied independence of the Church.

The member of the Church has covenanted to work for the advancement of the Church members individually and the Church as an organization. Agreeable to this truth, Elder Harold B. Lee, of the Council of the Twelve, has given us some ways in which the Latter-day Saint may fulfill this responsibility:

If we would be united in paying our fast offerings and observing the law of the fast as fully as the Lord has taught it, and if we were united in carrying out the principles of the welfare program as they have been given to us by our leaders today, we would be free from want and distress and would be able fully to care for our own. . . .

If we were fully united as a people in our missionary work, we would rapidly hasten the day when the gospel would be preached to all people without and within the boundaries of the organized stakes of Zion.

If we were fully united in keeping the law of sacrifice and paying our tithes as we have been schooled today, we would have sufficient to build our temples, our chapels, our schools of learning. . . .

If we were united as a people in electing honorable men to high places in our civil government, regardless of the political party with which we have affiliation, we would be able to safeguard our communities and to preserve law and order among us. . . .

If we were united in safeguarding our youth from pernicious associations that foster marriages out of the Church and out of the temples, by having socials and recreations as a united people, as has been the practice from our pioneer days, we would be building all our Latter-day Saint homes on a sure and happy foundation. . . .

If we were united in safeguarding the Church from false doctrines and in standing as watchmen

705
