[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 146 | PDF Page 151]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 146 (PDF page 151) ---
LITERATURE • America's Literature

The Last Hundred Years

Lesson 48 — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer (1878-    )

Elder Briant S. Jacobs

(Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes
Dryden Press, New York, pp. 850-854)

For Third Meeting, May 1964

Objective: To understand and enjoy Carl Sandburg's substantial contribution to the American tradition.

IT is altogether fitting that, of the multifarious voices out of the living past which have brought us to ourselves, it is Carl Sandburg's which is to be sounded last. Not one of America's greatest poets, he is nevertheless one of her great lovers, here standing foremost in the 1960's with two of her great immortals who have most influenced his beliefs and his method, namely, Lincoln and Whitman. Having worked as a common laborer, he is well aware of the commonplace, while at the same time proud to be self-appointed singer to these, his own people. Timeless in their rugged integrity and blundering strength, to him they are the world's best hope. As he wrote in 1936, a period in the United States' history when a collective soul-searching and a profound self-appraisal were most needed:

The people will live on.
The learning and blundering people will live on. . . .

Between the finite limitations of the five senses

and the endless yearnings of man for the beyond
the people hold to the humdrum bidding of work and food
while reaching out when it comes their way
for lights beyond the prison of the five senses,
for keepsakes lasting beyond any hunger or death
This reaching is alive. . . .
The people know the salt of the sea and the strength of the winds lashing the corners of the earth.
The people take the earth
as a tomb of rest and a cradle of hope.
Who else speaks for the Family of Man?
They are in tune and step
with constellations of universal law.
. . .
In the darkness with a great bundle of grief the people march.
In the night, and overhead a shovel of stars for keeps, the people march:
"Where to? what next?"
(From The People, Yes, by CARL SANDBURG, copyright 1936 by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc. Reprinted by permission of the publishers. See text, pp. 853-854.)

Sandburg's Life
Charles Sandburg was born on a cornhusk mattress in 1878 in Galesburg, Illinois, the son of Swedish im-

146
