[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 103 | PDF Page 108]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 103 (PDF page 108) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

the wagon seat. "And you just might be able to do it, at that," he muttered as he gathered his reins tight and started off.

"Better get that sister and be ready," he called back. "Don't start delaying us until we at least get out of town."

SELENA knelt on the clods of sun-baked earth for a long time. Then a cloud of dust arose and she saw many wagons moving along the road. They had started! Belle had said it must be today, but she had forgotten. Selena felt a little guilty at having left everything at the last to Belle, but never once did the thought occur to her that her sister might not be ready. No man in the entire train was more efficient than Belle. Their wagon would be in place all right. Selena took a long last look at the grave, etching it in her memory, then she turned resolutely away and walked toward the road.

Belle brought the oxen to a halt only for a moment while Selena climbed lightly up onto the seat beside her. Belle looked at her sister's tear-reddened eyes and did not speak until they came to the last place on the road from where the cemetery could still be seen. Selena sat small and silent without moving. Belle cleared her throat.

"We will be out of sight of it in a few moments, Selena. Would you like to look back?"

Selena continued to stare straight ahead. "I shall not see it again," she said, her features set.

"There is no need. It will always be there, in my mind."

Belle spoke sharply. "I have the feeling that you are being more faithful than he would be in a like situation."

"You did not like him," Selena reminded her, as though speaking to a child. "You can say that if it pleases you, but you have no proof."

"I..." Belle opened her mouth to say more, then she thought better of it. She called to one of the oxen instead, as Selena lapsed back into silence.

Determined that she would not prove to be a drawback to the day's progress, Belle had had her oxen yoked and ready for the day's journey before anyone else in camp. The same thing was true that night. She could unyoke a team of oxen as quickly as any man in the wagon train. Since she had a special reason for wanting to do so, she made it a point to be just a little faster; to see that whenever Josiah came around of an evening, her team was already turned out to grass.

They had been on the trail a week before Selena saw Lon Holladay. When she did, it took a moment before she could remember where she had seen him before. It was the deep blue of his eyes that recalled him—the young man at the cemetery on the day of the funeral. It was with an effort that Selena was able to speak civilly to him, remembering still her smoldering resentment.

He nodded to Selena but directed his remarks to Belle.

103
