[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 498 | PDF Page 522]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 498 (PDF page 522) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

MRS. CORA STAVIG, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, wife of Dr. L. M. Stavig, President of Augustana College, was chosen American Mother of the Year, during the five day ceremonies in New York City in May. Mother of four sons, all professional men successful in their chosen fields, Mrs. Stavig, was cited for her contributions to international understanding through "people to people" diplomacy, and for her leadership in marriage counseling and adult education.

MRS. LURENE ELDREDGE WARNICK, Pleasant Grove, Utah, wife of Merrill Warnick, former president of the National Dairy Council and former president of Timpanogos Stake, represented Utah. She is the mother of eight outstanding children, is a leader in educational and cultural affairs in her community, and has long been prominent in Relief Society work.

MRS. EMMA LAVERA WILLIAMS CALVERT, Caliente, Nevada, mother of seven children, and President of Caliente Ward Relief Society, attended the meetings as the Nevada Mother. Widowed when her children were young, she educated her family through her own efforts, and sent four of them on missions, and at the same time played an active role in the educational and civic affairs of her community.

MRS. JERRIE MOCK became the first woman to fly solo around the world when she set down her single-engine Cessna 108 plane, "Spirit of Columbus," at Port Columbus, Ohio, April 17, 1964. The thirty-eight year old housewife was greeted by her husband, Russell Mock, and their three children. The aviatrix, also the first woman to fly the Pacific Ocean solo, logged about 200 hours of flying time, via Bermuda, the Azores, Casablanca, Tripoli, Cairo, Dhahran, Pakistan, India, Thailand, the Philippines, Guam, Wake, and Honolulu — more than 22,858 miles. Joan Merriam Smith became the second aviatrix to circle the globe. She landed her Piper Apache at Oakland Airport May 13th.

MRS. RUTH G. VAN CLEVE, a career government attorney, was sworn in on April 16, 1964, as director of the Office of Territories, the first woman to fill such an important post in the United States. Department of the Interior. With the Department since 1950, she has given outstanding service as assistant interior solicitor in the Division of Territories, Wildlife, and Parks.

DAME SYBIL THORNDYKE, England's beloved older actress, performed in the stellar role in "Measure for Measure," in London, June 15, 1963, at the closing performance of the fabled "Old Vic" theater—home of Shakespearean drama for many generations. A picture of Dame Sybil, surrounded by the cast as she made the farewell speech following the final curtain, was shown in various countries at exhibitions honoring the four hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's birth (April 23, 1564).

499
