[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 351 | PDF Page 368]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 351 (PDF page 368) ---
Memories and Mothers

What Is a Mother?
Margaret Richards

WHAT is she . . . mother? Girl, woman, wife, and a mother? Motherhood — the culmination of all the years of growing up! The fulfillment of her dreams and hopes and plans!

Just what is she . . . this mother? Well, it's certain that according to today's wage scale she is worth her weight in gold. Housekeeper, cleaning woman, laundress, seamstress, cook, nutrition expert, chauffeur, nurse, wise shopper, bargain hunter, business manager, and executive vice-president of one of the busiest and most demanding institutions in her country — the home!

Is this all she does? Oh, no! This is merely the busy-work that occupies her hands while her mind and heart and soul are bent upon a higher calling. Motherhood — a sharing in creation! A sharing in nurturing — a sharing in exaltation, as she sows the seeds in her children's souls that will, in large measure, determine their harvest in adulthood — and in eternity! Teacher, counselor, advisor, example — is there any greater influence for good or evil in human life? Oh, Mother, what a grave responsibility is yours, and what infinite opportunity!

Security, affection, a deep and unselfish love — these are your first special gifts to your little one that no one else can give quite so well as you. And what about the unnumbered things you teach that no one else can teach quite so well as you? It is from you a child learns love — love of God, love of the gospel, love of family and friends. It is at your knee a child learns prayer. It is your example that teaches thoughtfulness, courtesy, honesty, respect for authority, obedience to law and to the laws of God.

Yes, Mother, God himself has given you a calling, in importance second to none. May he, likewise, bless you with the strength and courage, with the wisdom and love, to enable you to fill in fullest measure your sacred calling here and now, and to secure your place as a priestess queen beside your husband for eternity.

351
