[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 156 | PDF Page 161]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 156 (PDF page 161) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

promote gospel scholarship by teaching the doctrines of the gospel to every member; (2) to provide opportunities for Church services; (3) to care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families; (4) to provide adequate fellowship and fraternalism through socials, athletics, and the like, for all quorum members. (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 21.) The quorum as an organized body of the Priesthood implies an ideal standard of conduct, a common purpose, unity of decision, and a vital interest in the welfare of each member.

The quorum thus becomes a training ground for Church leadership. In fact, when the quorum functions to its full capacity and design, it could meet most successfully all the activity and instructional needs of the Church. Certainly not by the quorum meeting as such, but by fully carrying out the quorum objectives, all necessary organization could be formulated under Priesthood leadership.

The Priesthood in Church Government

The basic structure of Church government is seen in the administrative officers and organization of its geographic units. Church government is the function of the Priesthood. The authority and keys of the Priesthood are centered in the Prophet, Seer, and Revelator of the Church. The President, with his Counselors, the Quorum of the Twelve, the Patriarch, the Assistants to the Twelve, the Seven Presidents of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric constitute the General Author-

ities of the Church. They administer the affairs of the Church through stake, ward, mission, and branch officers.

The stake presidency is appointed by the First Presidency. By conferring upon the stake presidency the proper authority, they can call and set apart the necessary stake officers and conduct all the business that pertains to the operation of a stake. Excepted are bishoprics, patriarchs, presidents of high priests' quorums, stake mission presidents, stake clerks, and high councilors (without permission from a General Authority). These ordinances and settings apart are reserved for members of the Twelve, Assistants to the Twelve, and now the Presidents of Seventy who are ordained high priests.

The bishopric is approved by the First Presidency, and is set apart by the proper General Authorities. The bishopric can then proceed to call and set apart the necessary ward officers; however, the bishopric is directly responsible to the stake presidency.

The stake presidency can call and set apart branch presidencies when branches are necessary.

The missions of the Church are presided over by a president called and set apart by the First Presidency. The mission president with his two counselors preside in the mission. The branch and district presidents are appointed and set apart by them. They represent the First Presidency and conduct the official business of the mission under the direction of the First Presidency.

The Priesthood quorums are sup-

156
