[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 394 | PDF Page 411]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 394 (PDF page 411) ---
MAY 1964

Maricopa Stake (Arizona) Singing Mothers Present Music for Inter-Faith Social
"Meet My Neighbor," October 25, 1963

At the right, front row, chorister Nathal Fuller; at the left in the back row, Alta Standage, organist; Goddess of Liberty, Verna Randall.

Mildred B. Jarvis, President, Maricopa Stake Relief Society, reports: "Members of the Maricopa Stake Relief Society had an opportunity to become better acquainted with both nonmember neighbors, and also those members of the Church who have not been active, at an Inter-Faith Social 'Meet My Neighbor,' held October 25, 1963. Members of each ward were invited to bring friends and neighbors to the stake program. Invitations, together with a brief explanation of the Relief Society program, were sent to service and cultural clubs, and to the wives of city and school officials.

"The very stimulating and informative program presented the origin and purpose of Relief Society, with emphasis on service. The script was written by Nedra Lundberg. Music for the program was furnished by the Maricopa Stake Singing Mothers, who had joined with other stakes of Arizona to sing at the October General Conference in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City.

"One of the most impressive parts of the program was the display of handicraft work made by the sisters of all the wards in the stake. This drew praise especially from the nonmembers who attended the presentation. An atmosphere of warmth and friendliness was set by the decor, with autumn colors and floral arrangements setting the theme. Stake board members and ward Relief Society presidents, who were serving as hostesses, wore name cards decorated with yellow chrysanthemums, tied with a single blue bow. Decorations on the refreshment tables in the cultural hall included dry arrangements in their natural coloring, with accents of gold.

"The expressions of the guests and members, alike, reflected the spirit of neighborliness and sisterhood which prevailed throughout the social. Many hearts were touched and eyes opened to the rewarding experiences offered through the educational and work programs of Relief Society."

New England Mission, Southern Maine Singing Mothers at "Keynote Meeting"
September 7, 1963

Ann N. Madsen, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "He That Is Faithful Shall Be Made Strong' was the theme of the New England Mission Primary-Relief Society Conference. As each sister entered the Cambridge chapel she was given a name tag, a blue link printed with the words 'A Strong Link' to highlight the fact that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link.

"The Relief Society keynote meeting began at 12:30 P.M. After Sister Madsen had welcomed the sisters, a skit was presented by the mission officers called 'This Is New England. You Are There!' The props for this skit were royal blue curtains or either side of a regular door marked 'Your Sister Lives Here.' The voices in the skit came from 'all over New England,' but no one was seen to be speaking. The skit consisted of a 'before and after' series of events taken from real life here in New England, showing what Relief Society, in all its phases, can do to help the sisters, particularly those who sit behind closed doors and never see or hear from us.

"Next the sisters moved into the cultural hall, where cake decorating, quilting, smocking, rug hooking, wreaths and trees made of white and dyed turkey feathers were being demonstrated and patterns were being ordered. During this time the sisters were encouraged to sit down and learn 'how' on the spot. Many beautiful displays, with clever bazaar ideas, were set up. All of the displays were linked together with large brain links in varied colors.

"After the departments and class work, all reassembled in the chapel to hear and see an Inter-Faith Social demonstration featuring the Singing Mothers of the Southern Maine District. President Truman G. Madsen then gave inspired counsel, and the last forty-five minutes were spent in testimony bearing."

394
