[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 623 | PDF Page 650]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 623 (PDF page 650) ---
there be such, to enter into the celestial and terrestrial kingdoms have not been revealed. The initiatory ordinances of water baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, and other ordinances known to the Latter-day Saint, are for the celestial kingdom only.

GREATNESS OF THE GOSPEL

An example of the magnanimity of the gospel is given in the case of the terrestrial beings, some of whom are honorable "Christians" who believe that the greatest reward of obedience is to be in the presence of Jesus Christ. If honorable, they will receive their present desire because they live only that law which will give them the terrestrial glory. On the other hand, those enlightened "Christians" who did not live their law, will find themselves in the telestial kingdom, yet the "unenlightened" heathens living their law will be given the chance to accept the terrestrial law; if they do, then their place of future abode will be the terrestrial kingdom.

When reference is made to these groups of terrestrials and telestials, it should be remembered that the Lord will give to all men an opportunity to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. The chance for celestial glory is open to all. (D&C 1:2; 128:5.)

CONCLUSION

It is very gratifying to us who desire the salvation of mankind, and whose work it is to labor for their uplifting, who have been specially called of God and appointed to work under the Captain of our salvation for the redemption of the whole human race, to know by the revelations of God that the time will come, in some future state of existence if not in this, when every soul that can be redeemed will be brought out of darkness and sorrow, and hell, and death, and be placed where they can enjoy existence, to glorify God and obey His commandments.... The laws of God are eternal; they are forever and ever; they are inflexible; and it is only by obedience to law that exaltation can be secured. In this condition we are learning to be obedient to law to such law as God has revealed; also to the wholesome rules and regulations that are established in the governments under which we may live (Penrose, Charles W.: Conference Report, April 1901, pp. 42-43.)

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Discuss the doctrine that men will receive different rewards.
2. Indicate some of the things necessary to obtain celestial glory, to receive exaltation in the celestial kingdom.
3. Discuss the importance of temple marriage.
4. Is it necessary that one hold a high office in the Church to be exalted in the next life?
5. Who will inherit the terrestrial kingdom? The telestial kingdom?

Note to Class Leaders:
For visual aid kits for the theology and the literature lessons see page 587 of this issue.

LESSON DEPARTMENT

623
