[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 19 | PDF Page 20]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 19 (PDF page 20) ---
MOMENT OF TRUST

tell you something important." She opened the car door, felt along the front seat, her hand trembling. It was when she opened the other door that she saw the coin purse. It had slipped off the end of the seat onto the floor next to the door. Fortunately, she hadn't had occasion to open the door or it would have fallen out. She leaned against the car, her legs shaking.

"You lose something, Mom?" Bud was standing by the car.

She looked up at her son, so tall and yet so young, so terribly vulnerable and impressionable. Yes, she had almost lost something precious. If she had failed that moment of trust in her son and had accused him, a bond between them would have been destroyed forever. Maybe Bud had borrowed the money from Freddie and it would take a year's allowance to pay it back, but Bud was not a thief!

Bud said, "Mom, I had to have the money for the dance, and I knew you wouldn't give it to me." He grinned. "Old-brick-wall Mom. So I had to use the old brain, you know? I sold my track shoes to Skinny Peters. I almost tore the closet apart finding them. Hope it's okay?"

Suddenly Donna's little world, which since yesterday had been spinning crazily, righted itself. Bud had got the money by his own ingenuity. She began to cry with relief. "Well, gosh, Mom, I'd outgrown them!" Still she cried. "Mom, did I say something wrong? I mean, calling you a brick wall? I'm glad you and Dad are like a brick wall, and...."

"I k-know and I'm h-happy you sold the sh-shoes and...."

"Then why are you crying? Gosh!"

"Because I l-love you and...."

Bud shook his head. "Women are sure dopey."

"Especially mothers, Bud," she laughed shakily. "Especially mothers."

MARY EK KNOWLES, Ogden, Utah, is well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. Four of her prize-winning stories, as well as other contributions, have previously appeared in the Magazine. She has received recognition from several magazines of National circulation where her stories have been featured. She is a member of the Blue Quill writers' club in Ogden, and a former State President of the League of Utah Writers. After receiving the letter telling her about winning the first prize in the contest, Mrs. Knowles replied: "Since winning the first prize before (1961), many things have happened to me. In August of 1962 my wonderful husband died after a long illness.... Then the following January my dear father died.... But, of course, there is much to be grateful for, my three wonderful children, my adorable grandson and granddaughter, my good friends, and my good health."

19
