[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 740 | PDF Page 775]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 740 (PDF page 775) ---
OCTOBER 1964

She was not going to give in on this thing. Even Don himself had admitted, time and again, that it was risky to stop for hitchhikers along the road.

"You're just asking for trouble," Rita had said only last week when Don stopped to pick up a shabbily dressed man on the freeway.

"My car broke down," the man told them, indicating the fenderless clunk at the side of the road, and Don had given her that "Aren't you ashamed?" look.

"Well, he could have been a robber!" she argued defensively, after they let the man off at a garage.

"But he wasn't." Don grinned at her, then, and they laughed together.

This was different. They were on their vacation. Don only had a week, and Rita didn't want to spend it picking up hitchhikers. They were going to Lake Dawn and their two-seater sportscar, Don's first anniversary surprise, was loaded with camping gear and sleeping bags. There just isn't room for any extra passengers, she thought, as the little car sped up the canyon to the high mountain lake.

"Honey?" said Don tentatively. He looked at her quickly. "Honey, I know it's risky to stop for hitchhikers. All I said was 'What would we do if we had a breakdown or an accident or something? What if no one would stop for us?' Isn't it the charitable thing to stop and offer aid when someone needs it?"

"I just don't want to talk about it. We aren't going to break down or have an accident, so it's pointless to talk about it. Besides," she said, after a pause,

"we'd never know if the trouble was real or only pretend."

"Honey, I'm sure the Lord would let us know in some way. You know the scripture in Moroni about the good fountain. It can't bring forth bitter water."

"No, I don't remember it, and I don't want to discuss it."

"You're being very stubborn, Rita," he said seriously. A smile suddenly erased his frown. "But let's not let it upset our good time. All right?"

"All right." Rita smiled back. "I hope we make the lake before dark. I'm starved!"

"Can you cook in the dark?"

They both laughed. Everything was fine again, almost. Rita felt her spirits lift, and the feel of the road turning under them and the fresh smell in the air made her want to sing. She started to hum, and soon she and Don were singing a hymn. "Lead, kindly Light, amid th' encircling gloom; Lead thou me on . . ."

The afternoon sun through the windshield made Rita drowsy. She slept for awhile, with her head on her arm. A thumping jolt shook her to a sitting position.

"What's the matter?"

"A bad hole in the road. The car's all right, but it looks like some rough road ahead — and dusty. Better roll up your window."

Don slowed the car and eased it into a rugged dirt section. "That sign we saw said there was construction for five miles. We're in for a hot, bumpy ride." Don rolled his own window up, and the little car bucked and humped over the roughly graded road.

"Don! What's that?" Rita

740
