[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 779 | PDF Page 814]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 779 (PDF page 814) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

tory, pp. 282-283.) In eight months' time, mainly through the efforts of Elder Woodruff in Herefordshire, Worcestershire, and Gloucestershire, 1800 people were brought into the Church.

PREPARATION FOR MISSIONARY SERVICE

Section 80 provides us with some ideas about preparation for missionary service. The two missionaries called by this revelation were told to "declare the things which ye have heard, and verily believe, and know to be true" (Verse 4). The successful missionary is possessed of sufficient knowledge to impart the fundamentals of the gospel to his listener. Careful preparation for the calling and function of the service to be rendered is a key to success. A necessary preparation is to live worthy to receive the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. If one has learned the gospel, the Lord will bring the necessary knowledge forth when the time is appropriate. Above everything else, the missionary should have a testimony of the restoration of the gospel and thus be able to bear record that Jesus is the Savior. In the words of Elder John A. Widtsoe:

These, then, are the steps on the way to truth: Desire, prayer, study, and practice. They form the eternal price which must be paid for truth.

This way must be found by each person for himself. Another cannot desire, pray, study, or practice in our stead and for us. Truth must be won individually (Evidences and Reconciliations, 3:84-85).

When one knows the truth of the gospel, he will not teach something that will confuse or destroy faith. He will seek to learn the truth and teach only the truth that will advance the salvation of his fellow men.

The guide to success in missionary work, in other Church teaching positions, or other callings where counsel is required, is the word given in the standard works of the Church and the instructions of the living prophets. (D&C 10:62-63.)

ORGANIZATION OF THE FIRST PRESIDENCY

It was during March 1832, that Joseph Smith received Section 81 revealing that the First Presidency should be organized. Frederick G. Williams, by this revelation, was called to be a Counselor to President Smith. One year later, March 18, 1833, the First Presidency was organized with Sidney Rigdon also serving as a Counselor. During that interim, however, these brethren assisted the Prophet. The following reason for the gradual development of the Church organization was given by President Anthon H. Lund:

... When the Church was organized on the 6th day of April, 1830, as far as we can learn there were but nine persons in the Church. Of course, with nine persons it was impossible to establish this perfect organization of the Priesthood. Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were called and ordained Apostles; but there could not be Twelve Apostles, there could not be [a quorum of] Seventy, for at that time the Church was too small. It took time for the work to grow; but the Lord had given revelation upon the subject, and when the proper time came the Presidency of the Church was organized, with the Prophet Joseph as President and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams as his counselors. Afterwards the Twelve Apostles were chosen, and then the Seventies. But in the beginning, when

779
