[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 288 | PDF Page 301]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 288 (PDF page 301) ---
APRIL 1964

you set a batch of bread. Before I left St. Louis, I promised Mother that I would follow her recommendations when it came time for me to choose a wife. You meet every qualification, Laura, and it would give me great pleasure if you would consent to be my wife."

"But, Papa . . ." Laura began.

"He gave me permission to speak to you about it last night," William replied, drawing a small box from his coat pocket.

Before she knew quite what was happening, William had placed a ring on the appropriate finger.

"I hope it pleases you, Laura," he said.

Laura looked at the lovely pearl, surrounded by small rubies.

"Oh, William," cried Laura, "I accept."

* * *

LAURA and William were the center of attention at the Harvest Ball. Laura proudly allowed her friends to see her lovely ring, and William acknowledged the hearty congratulations with obvious pleasure.

As Laura prepared to enter the house later that evening, William gently lifted her chin to the pale light coming from the sitting room window and sealed the engagement with a tender kiss.

In the circle of his arms, Laura asked rather hesitantly, "William," she began, "you may think me rather bold, but could you tell me what qualities you found in me that your mother required?"

"Laura, Laura," he smiled, holding her hands in his. "Mother gave only two requirements, and you met them both. I was to watch you set a batch of bread, so that I could see if you would knead the flour around the pan into the dough. If a woman is thrifty in small things, she'll be thrifty in all things, according to my mother. I was to choose a girl who would be satisfied with plain food and plain living until I can earn a better income in my store. The second requirement was the easiest. I was to love the girl with all my heart."

"Oh, William," Laura cried gaily, "I can hardly wait to meet your mother. She sounds like a wonderful person."

"Most unusual," smiled William.

"William," mused Laura, "there's one thing I must have when we begin housekeeping."

"Just name it," said William, "and I'll do my best to get it for you."

"I'd like a tortoise-shell cat," replied Laura. "It will help to remind me always to be myself!"

Gift Apron

Beulah Huish Sadler

Spring is in the pocket,
Summer in the thread,
Blue — to catch the moonbeams,
When all but love is dead.

288
