[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 524 | PDF Page 548]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 524 (PDF page 548) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

ments. You will be between the Indian territory and them, and they are taking some comfort in this fact."

Knowing Selena's constant fear of Indians, Belle watched her but could tell little as to whether the missionary's message was having much effect upon her. Outwardly Selena appeared unmoved by the words, which was just as she wished it to be. She knew well enough that, even though their long journey had been completed successfully without the loss of one human life, there were many other problems besetting the leaders, and her small ones were best kept to herself.

As the Lyman company caught up with the advance group, a grove of sycamores offered the first haven of shelter in California to the new settlers. There was plenty of water and feed and the near-starved animals were turned out for their well-earned days of eating and drinking. They must be in a condition to do the farm work that lay ahead. For the leaders there was also the immediate question of where to make the permanent settlement.

"Like to come along, Lon?" asked Brother Rich. "We've got to see Williams as soon as possible and settle the details if he's still willing to sell his Chino Ranch."

LON wondered at Brother Rich's statement. He had thought the purchase all but completed. Oh, he well knew there was little money to complete the transaction, but Lon had not anticipated any change in the attitude of the seller, as Brother Rich evidently did. And Brother Rich proved to be entirely correct.

"Then you have changed your mind entirely about selling the ranch?" Lon noted the note of deep disappointment in Brother Lyman's voice. "I have your letter here, written by your own hand in December, last. You were more than a little anxious to dispose of your holdings. Here, read it for yourself."

"I know what it says," Williams replied, brushing the proffered sheet of paper aside. "But I make this proposition in consequence of ill health, and not being able to manage things as I would wish.' But the months have passed, my health is considerably improved, and as I said, gentlemen, I have at the present no wish to sell."

"Why can't we just homestead, Lon?" This was Belle talking. She wasn't ready even now, thought Selena, to want to move on to land already under cultivation, not Belle. If the land had ever felt the point of another's plow it would be, in a measure, spoiled for Belle. "Why can't we just take up some land of our own?"

"All the productive land around is pretty well taken up," Lon replied. "We must have land that will sustain this large group of people. There is one more possibility right now, Josiah," he said, turning again to her husband.

"J. D. Hunter, who was a captain of the Battalion, is now Indian Agent in Southern California. His suggestion, when he met us after leaving Williams' place yesterday, was to go see the Lugo brothers and make an offer for the Rancho San Bernardino."

525
