[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 75 | PDF Page 76]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 75 (PDF page 76) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

person, no matter what his special calling or area of service may be, must also be an active participant as a ward member. In fact, one quality of good leadership is being able to identify oneself effectively with the group in a variety of ways.

It is important that all ward members accept the opportunities for training provided by the organizations of the Church. By their participation in the program, growth and development, both spiritually and mentally, are assured. At the same time, the activity of the membership provides the sustaining and stimulating influence that officers and teachers need to help them make their efforts vital.

Importance of the Sustaining Vote

The members of a ward find it quite simple to raise their hands when the names of people are read to fill the various offices in the Church. Sometimes the presiding officer, so familiar with this procedure, does this assignment in such a routine way that the members, without thinking, raise their hands to sustain. This is not a healthy situation to have in any ward. However, more frequently, the lack of thought in the process of sustaining leaders is on the part of the members. Their indifference is clearly expressed in their failure to support the sustained leader with their participation in the activity involved in the discharge of his duty.

Sustained by Action. When a member of a ward raises his hand to sustain a person in office, he is exercising one of the most important duties and privileges given to the membership of the Church. In the 26th Section of the Doctrine and

Covenants we read, "No person is to be ordained to any office in this church, where there is a regularly organized branch of the same, without the vote of that church" (verse 65).

The vote of a member should be carefully thought through before it is expressed. This is not a democratic process in the common meaning of the term. We believe the leadership is divinely called and operates under the inspiration of the Lord. Therefore, when the appropriate officer proposes and presents people to be sustained, the membership have the privilege of raising their hands for or against the recommendation. Usually the presiding officer will explain that the majority rules, but he would give consideration to the objections of the dissenting individual, after the meeting. By a member's raising his hand to sustain, he approves the selection, the assignment and he fully agrees to support the leader in carrying out the duties of his office. The responsibility of the sustaining member is met by his activity in helping to make the officer or teacher successful. Proper action is more important than words or signs.

"Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness" (D & C 58:27). Active support in the Church requires doing many things without having to be commanded. This admonition applies to both officers and members. A case in point could be the accomplishment of the home teaching program. There is much room to do good over and above the re-

75
