[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 936 | PDF Page 979]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 936 (PDF page 979) ---
DECEMBER 1964

warned him of it to a greater or less extent (Journal of Discourses 26: 191).

This Spirit should not be confused with the Holy Ghost which is given to those who obey the principles of the gospel and have hands laid upon their heads for that gift. (Acts 5:32; John 14:16-17.)

THE RIGHTEOUS AND THE WICKED

In connection with the important truth that all men have to a greater or less extent the Spirit of the Lord which enlightens them and gives them power to discern between right and wrong, it must be known that, through succumbing to the enticings of Satan, sin is perpetuated. Each individual, to some degree, is in the bondage of sin, and, therefore, in need of repentance. The Lord desires that his children understand the need for their acceptance of the fulness of truth. It is only by the atonement of Jesus Christ that sin is forgiven by obedience to the principles and ordinances of the gospel. That person who does not come unto Jesus Christ in the manner he has prescribed, continues to remain under the bondage of sin or spiritual death. On the other hand, the person who has accepted Jesus Christ through his Priesthood has come into spiritual life, which is the state of the righteous. President Joseph F. Smith has set this forth in these words:

. . . Now, all the world today, I am sorry to say, with the exception of a handful of people who have obeyed the new and everlasting covenant, are suffering this spiritual death. They are cast out from the presence of God.

They are without God, without gospel truth, and without the power of redemption; for they know not God nor His Gospel. In order that they may be redeemed and saved from the spiritual death which has spread over the world like a pall, they must repent of their sins, and be baptized by one having authority, for the remission of their sins, that they may be born of God (Conference Report, October 1899, page 72).

UNBELIEF AMONG THE SAINTS

Notwithstanding the saint has come into spiritual life, he may lose the influence of the Holy Ghost due to sin. When Section 84 was received, the inhabitants of Zion had not paid necessary attention to the revelation and the inspired writings in The Book of Mormon. The consequence of this neglect and unbelief was darkness of mind. (Verses 54-56.) Escape from this condemnation was open to Zion on condition that she abide by the teachings of the revelations and not talk about them only. (Verse 57.) Repentance would bring forth results beneficial to them, but slothfulness would bring a scourge and judgment. (Verse 58.)

SIGNS FOLLOW THE BELIEVER

The elders addressed in this revelation were to go into the world testifying unto all that, as they accepted the first principles and came into the kingdom of God, the Holy Ghost would be received. (D&C 84:62-64.) The Lord then indicated that various signs—wonderful works, casting out devils, healing the sick, etc.— would follow the believer. (Verses 65-72.)

A very important admonition was given the elder and member

936
