[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 622 | PDF Page 649]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 622 (PDF page 649) ---
AUGUST 1964

spirit world, the "voice" declared of the Lord gained ascendancy in their lives.

And I also beheld that all children who die before they arrive at the years of accountability, are saved in the celestial kingdom of heaven (DHC 11:381).

This truth is in harmony with and gives meaning to verse 67 of Section 76, wherein it is given that those in the celestial kingdom will constitute "an innumerable company of angels."

TERRESTRIAL KINGDOM

The next vision seen by Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon was that of the terrestrial kingdom. Differing from the celestial kingdom as the moon differs in glory from the sun, those of this kingdom will also consist of an innumerable host. (D&C 76:91-92, 96-98, 71.) Those of the terrestrial kingdom are described as "honorable men of the earth, who were blinded by the craftiness of men." They lived the law to which they were responsible on the earth, but they did not receive the fulness on the earth nor in the spirit world. In this kingdom there will also be those who "died without the law." (Ibid., 76:72-75.)

In addition to those mentioned, there will be some Latter-day Saints who were honorable in their lives, but who were indifferent to the fulness of the truth. Expressed in the language of the revelation, they were "not valiant in the testimony of Jesus, wherefore, they obtain not the crown over the kingdom of our God" (Ibid., 76:79). It was their privilege to obtain that crown, but the spirit of apathy toward the work

Terrestrial beings will have the presence of Jesus Christ. (D&C 76:77.) In the absence of specific scriptural statement it is reasonable to believe that there are degrees within the terrestrial and also that advancement within that kingdom is possible. (TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, page 409.)

CELESTIAL KINGDOM

In the lowest of the three degrees of glory — the telestial — there will be innumerable gradations or degrees. (D&C 76: 98; 1 Cor. 15:41.) In this kingdom will be assigned those who are described as the wicked of the earth — liars, sorcerers, adulterers. They are those who reject the gospel and the testimony of Jesus and the prophets. They are the followers of man-made systems, who persist in their abominable ways. (D&C 76:99-106, 81-85.) It is these who will come from their graves in the first part of the second or general resurrection at the end of the millennium.

Although coming under this condemnation, they have been cleansed in the spirit world and are prepared to enter a glory "which surpasseth all understanding." (Verse 89.) In their kingdom they will receive the Holy Spirit through the ministry of terrestrial beings, and of angels appointed to minister in the telestial world. (Verses 86, 88.) The number who will inherit this glory will be as numerous as the sand upon the seashore. (Verse 109.)

The specific ordinances, if

622
