[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 813 | PDF Page 852]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 813 (PDF page 852) ---
Happiness

Counselor Louise W. Madsen

[Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1964]

[PHOTOGRAPH]

HAPPINESS is the purpose and design of existence. To gain happiness and to contribute to the happiness of others are foremost goals of living. A happy and contented life has been called "the eternal quest of mankind." To be happy is the ultimate goal of all ambition, all endeavors, all hopes and plans.

True happiness stems from a quality within ourselves — a quality that is both innate and acquired. Happiness comes from within and is mostly simple goodness and a clear conscience. No one can be happy without some feeling of satisfaction with himself. In a searching self-scrutiny one usually finds much to be done to bring about this satisfaction with oneself. Self-discipline is a necessary ingredient.

As Abraham Lincoln once said, "Most folks are about as happy as they make up their minds to be." Almost every human being can be happier than he is. A more optimistic outlook, greater altruism, vigorous social service, facing life's realities and difficulties

with firmness, and having a zest for living, characterize the happy person. A sense of humor is necessary. It is sometimes hard to realize that, for the most part, one makes his own happiness.

While happiness comes from within ourselves its focus must needs be outside ourselves. We must seek it unselfishly, finding ways to bring joy to others. Loving service brings a wealth of joy in return. This we know to be true, for experience has shown us that if we have hurt someone that hurt clouds the sun for us until it is remedied.

Contentment is one phase of happiness, contentment with life as it is lived. "To be content with what we possess is the greatest and most secure of riches" (Cicero). This does not deny ambition, preparing for a better life, desiring more of the world of this world. This does not mean we have to stay at the same level. Rather, contentment is the joy of being happy with what we have along the way. Many young couples with the husband still in

813
