[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 34 | PDF Page 35]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 34 (PDF page 35) ---
JANUARY 1964

here on Christmas with her before." His eyes came back. "I hope Mitzie hasn't been worrying you about the star again. She can't seem to get it out of her mind."

A sharp intimate fear possessed Joan. "She is not here!" she said.

"Not here?" The man looked bewildered. "But it was the only place she could be. I was sure. . . ."

Joan felt limp and sick. "If you only knew," she said, "how much I wanted her to come. I. . . . Oh, please come in."

She led him into the room and he stared in amazement.

"It was for Mitzie," she said. "The star at the top of the tree. It is her star, one I loved when I was a little girl. You see, I, too, had lost the star, lost it in a whirl of parties, and night clubs, and making money, and friends who didn't know true values, and. . . ." She paused and wiped the tears from her eyes. "Mitzie helped me find it. And I wanted her to have it, too, a real Christmas such as she had never known."

SHE dropped into the rocker and put her head on the lacy doily of the arm and wept.

He stood meekly before her holding his hat. "I have been a heel," he said, "the most inadequate father a child ever had. I have let my own selfish grief deny her both father and mother." He hesitated. "Last night I kept thinking of what you said about my losing the star. And I realized you were right, so I let Mrs. Piney go home for Christmas, and I decided to make Mitzie a real Christmas."

Joan was wiping her eyes.

"Come!" she said, standing quickly. "We must find her. It is much too cold. Where can we look?"

"Only that I think she has gone somewhere to find the star."

"In the fields!" Joan said, "She said it must be in the fields!"

But it was a hopeless task, wading through the fields in the blowing snow, calling for Mitzie, flashing the light across the stretches of ominous white, while consternation turned to terror.

They stopped and faced each other. "We could call the police from your home. It is nearer than mine," he said.

Then, as they threw open her door against the wind, they saw Mitzie standing there. She was gazing at the silver star at the top of the tree.

As they came rushing forward, she turned to them, her face alight with rapture, completely unaware of the anxiety she had caused. "Look!" she cried, "The Star! I have found the Jesus Star! It is on the top of your tree!"

"Yes, Mitzie, darling," her father said in penitent tones, as he gently took the sand pail from her hand and set it on the floor. Then he held the little hand in his own.

Joan reached for the other hand. "It is the star we had all three lost, Mitzie. But truly it is only the picture of it. The real Jesus star is in people's hearts."

"And we will keep it there forever," Mitzie's father said.

Then he walked to the doorway and taking the sprig of mistletoe from it, he carried it back to hang it from a dangling Christmas bell over their heads.

34
