[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 368 | PDF Page 385]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 368 (PDF page 385) ---
From the Dear Windows of Home

Leona Fetzer Wintch

[ILLUSTRATION: Simple line drawing of a single-story house with trees]

Home, Our Heaven on Earth

ISN'T it wonderful that we can come home to spout off pent-up feelings that need to be released? We cannot do this in public, so we sometimes behave worst around those whom we love the most. This letting off steam should not be frequent, however. Yet, some explodings, raised voices, and tears of children (and others who are not yet angels) come with disagreements that are a process of growth. The voicing of some differences can, at times, be wholesome. We can even say, "Happy is the home where enlightened discussions characterize the communication between family members."

Home should be a calm refuge, a place of warmth, fragrant with kindness. None of us can stand pressures all day long and come home to more of them without having the mortar of life washed out of us. The father of the home likes to have his surroundings neat and pleasing, but when he has to be careful where he sits, he becomes confused and unhappy.

To be harassed during work hours and again at home harrows the heart of any man. But if home is a refuge from tensions and frustrations, the peace and love he feels become an anointing balm to him. With the oil of gladness crowning him, he can see unlimited horizons and meet daily challenges with new physical and mental vigor. The demanding, stampeding world can be better met by all of us if we find replenishment in this haven, our heaven on earth.

To Be or to Do? That Is the Question

DO you sometimes feel compelled to keep moving, going, and doing, even after you are exhausted or have time off? The value of this kind of "busy work" is questionable, because it is not motivated by wholesome purposiveness. The next time you drive yourself without knowing why, reflect on Emerson's saying that it is easier to do than to be. Philosophers have talked about this for centuries, and today psychologists underline the words.

When we are insistent on doing rather than being, it is time to become analytical. It is possible that we keep on the go to avoid ourselves, since when we hurry around, we do not have time to measure our goals or our true situations. Then we almost have to force ourselves to find a quiet space and re-evaluate the very factors in our lives that we are trying to repress.

The serenity we seek can only come when we face ourselves, because satisfying relationships with others depend on our own good relationships with ourselves. We often harrow our inner selves with haste and regret. At least weekly, we should take stock of ourselves, repent, partake of the sacrament, and then turn our energies to self-fulfillment. Then we can be, as well as do.

368
