[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 729 | PDF Page 764]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 729 (PDF page 764) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

of the world." She did not add that her mother had never been outside of Heidelberg, except perhaps to Frankfort, or to Mannheim — a mere ten miles away, and therefore was not the best qualified judge in the world.

She turned into the walk to the Schettler home and lifted the iron knocker. She hoped that she would not have to wait. There was just time enough to get to the shop. She was relieved to hear Frau Schettler's heavy tread on the stairway. "Ah, it is you!" she said, opening the door. "Do come in. You will see that the Hoop-la does not belong in my room at all."

"I really haven't time," Elsa replied. "It is quite all right, of course. If you do not like this, you are welcome to choose something else."

But no, Frau Schettler would not let her go. Elsa must come in and see the figurine on the mantel. She quickly agreed that the sprightly Hoop-la had no place among the heavy ornaments that overloaded the room.

Frau Schettler took the figurine and wrapped it in some tissue paper. "Tell Herr Klopfer that I will be in later this week. And thank you for coming by."

ELSA took the package and hurried away. Now she would have time for no more than a glance at the stream of people coming from the station. A clock struck the half hour. She would have to hurry to get to the shop by nine. Herr Klopfer was tolerant of some things, but not tardiness. It would be no use to explain that she had been delayed by an errand for the shop. He would

retort that she should have started earlier.

She walked down to Bismarckplatz. Everywhere there were flowers. Pansies, with their innocent, upturned faces, and tulips, splashing the green with their gay spring colors. She turned on Hauptstrasse and walked past the small garden with the large trees — a part of the University. Ordinarily she would have paused to enjoy the fragrance, but there was no time for that now.

She saw the tall American soldier standing in front of the House of the Giant, gazing up at the statue. As she tried to walk by, he turned abruptly, knocking the figurine to the pavement.

"Oh," she cried, raising both hands to her cheeks and staring in dismay.

"I'm sorry. I guess it's broken."

"I'm sure it is," she replied rather stiffly, stooping down to pick up the package.

He tried to forestall her, but she said, "No, thank you. I'll get it." Her tone clearly implied that he had done damage enough.

"I'll pay for it, of course," he said quickly. "How much?"

"I'm not sure. I'll have to ask Herr Klopfer. I work in his gift shop."

She started down the street again, walking so swiftly that she almost kept ahead of the soldier in spite of his long stride.

"I'm glad you speak English," he said. "If all makes it easier to clear up this accident — I hope. You say you work in a gift shop?"

"Yes."

729
