[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 276 | PDF Page 289]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 276 (PDF page 289) ---
**PLEASE NOT THIS ONE**

*Merle E. Feriante*

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing showing a doctor and nurse in a hospital setting, with the nurse holding a baby]

CLARA floated gently, unhurried, through the anesthetic until the gleam of the delivery room ceiling brought her back to reality.

"That didn't take long," she thought with drowsy relief.

"You have a little girl." The doctor's pleasant voice caught her up with a jerk.

"Is she all right?" She gave weak voice to the question first on a mother's tongue.

"Yes," the doctor's voice reassured her. She gave in to the lassitude that plagued her, floating gently to the haven of no pain. "But," he continued, pulling her rudely back, "she has something wrong with her stomach. A hernia, or something of that order."

She forced herself to show interest.

"Oh? Hernia operations were quite common. She began to drift away again, but the doctor wouldn't let her.

"Let's go to the nursery so you can see her." Clara felt the table move under her and watched through pleasantly clouded vision as the ceiling changed from white to cool green.

The table stopped and a gentle hand on her cheek turned her face toward the nursery window. She forced herself to concentrate. The nurse, holding the baby, watched the mother's expression as she looked into the round face, eyes pinched tight, the little nose pressed flat into a red, soft-fleshed face, dark hair curled tightly to her head.

"She weighs nine pounds and thirteen ounces," the doctor said, and the mother smiled weakly, breathed....

"She's beautiful!" The nurse with a deft hand, turned back the blanket to reveal the wrinkled, red, freshly washed little body. There!!! She saw but couldn't comprehend. She closed her eyes to shut out the sight and longed with all her heart to return to the safety of oblivion ... anywhere just to get away from now.

She felt a tear slide down her

276
