[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 57 | PDF Page 58]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 13%]

--- PAGE 57 (PDF page 58) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman with short hair holding an open book, with one hand raised in a teaching gesture]

THEOLOGY • The Doctrine and Covenants

Lesson 55 — Missionary Service

Elder Roy W. Doxey

(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 71, 73, 74, and 75)

For First Meeting, April 1964

Objective: To realize that the restored gospel, through the missionary program, is the key to happiness in this life and eternal joy in the life to come.

Introduction

Following the four November 1831 conferences, Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer left for Jackson County, Missouri, in obedience to revelation. (D & C Section 69.) Joseph Smith resumed the revision of the Bible with Sidney Rigdon acting as scribe. (DHC I:238.) A month before this, Ezra Booth, mentioned in Lesson 50, Relief Society Magazine, August 1963, apostatized and set out to bring harm to the Prophet and to the Church. His efforts to do both of these apparently met with partial success. In the first instance, it was some of his efforts and his participation in mob action against the Prophet that brought physical harm to the Prophet. (DHC I:261-265.) His attack against the Church and its members was made in a series of nine letters published by the Ohio Star (Ravenna, Ohio). They consisted of slanderous denunciations and falsehoods concerning Joseph and the Church. (Section 71.)

In view of these efforts of Satan to thwart the work of the kingdom, the Prophet and Sidney were called by revelation to preach the gospel in the regions adjacent to Kirtland. (D & C 71:1-3.) An indication of the message delivered by these two missionaries on this special mission from December 1831 until the 10th of January 1832, is given in the Prophet's journal. He said it was a vindication of the cause of the Redeemer, that the day of vengeance was coming upon this generation, and that prejudice and darkness caused some to persecute the

57
