[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 782 | PDF Page 817]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 782 (PDF page 817) ---
OCTOBER 1964

TEMPORAL COMMANDMENT

As a preface to instructions regarding the brethren's mission to Missouri to manage the affairs of the poor under the order of Enoch in Kirtland, as well as Zion, the Lord set forth this truth which is similar to another oft-quoted one. (See D&C 130:20-21.)

I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (D&C 82:10).

The meaning of this passage is well known. The Lord operates the universe, his Church, and the plan of salvation, by law. When the law is observed, the blessing of that law follows.

In the operation of the law of consecration, it was intended that each person should manage his stewardship so that not only his family would profit but that the Lord's storehouse would be filled to meet every need, "Every man seeking the interest of his neighbor, and doing all things with an eye single to the glory of God" (Verse 19).

If the brethren privileged to live this high law of stewardship were to break their covenants, they "shall be dealt with according to the laws of my Church and shall be delivered over to the buffeting of Satan until the day of redemption" (Verse 21).

The brethren were also advised "and this is wisdom, make unto yourselves friends with the mammon of unrighteousness and they will not destroy you. Leave judgment alone with me for it is mine and I will repay" (Verses 22-23).

The Saints were to treat their nonmember friends with kindness, to live at peace with them, but

782

never take to their bosoms principles of unrighteousness. The gospel teaches that one should refrain from sinning and a way to accomplish this is to keep from the areas of temptation. Tolerance does not mean acceptance of principles that are contrary to the Lord's way of happiness. One can be friendly with those who do not accept Latter-day Saint standards of conduct, but tolerance is not indulgence.

SUMMARY

Four sections of the Doctrine and Covenants have made up this lesson. We have learned that the Lord gave instructions on missionary work that are applicable today; that the faithful missionary is promised the Holy Ghost to direct him in his labors; and that the powers of the Priesthood are available to the diligent. Regardless of position in the Church, no one is exempt from missionary responsibility. Finally, we learned that the powers of darkness are present on the earth and diligence in keeping the commandments is necessary. Tolerance for people not of our faith was enjoined, but tolerance does not mean acceptance of their ideas and practices which are incompatible with the covenants which the Latter-day Saint has made with God.

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. What are the benefits that can come through missionary service?

2. Tell of the progress of missionary work in England in 1840 as an example of the fulfillment of Section 79:3.

3. What is the obligation of the missionary (and the teacher in the
