[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 892 | PDF Page 935]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 892 (PDF page 935) ---
DECEMBER 1964

I am absolutely convinced that no wealth in the world can help humanity forward, even in the hands of the most devoted worker in this cause. The example of great and pure individuals is the only thing that can lead us to noble thoughts and deeds. Money only appeals to selfishness and irresistibly invites abuse. Can anyone imagine Moses, Jesus or Gandhi armed with the moneybags of Carnegie?

I like the Chinese proverb: "Not the cry, but the flight of the wild duck, leads the flock to fly and follow." We can do more good by example than in any other way.

COURTESY IN THE FAMILY

If the senior members of the family could just realize that as they move from place to place in the home, as they meet one another, as they speak on the telephone, as they show the proper courtesy and respect for one another, they greatly influence the lives of the younger ones, I am sure they would strive to be better examples.

What a wonderful influence it would have in the home if we would sincerely set about to treat the members of the family as though they were honored guests in our home. President and Sister McKay are real examples of this.

I was thrilled when I read an article by Sister McKay in which she said:

I am very, very proud of my husband. He is just as lovely, just as courteous, just as polite, just as kind, just as sweet in our home as he is anywhere else, and I am very proud of him. And I am very grateful for him. I cannot see a thing wrong with him. And I pray that our brethren

will try to follow his example in every way, shape and form.

A short time ago I was talking to a man whom I would like to see reactivated, and I told him how much activity in the Church would help him and his family. He said, "I have as neighbors a family who are considered to be good Church members. The other day I heard her yelling at her husband, and have heard her yell at her children so that I could hear everything she was saying, and I cannot believe that there is a feeling of love in that home."

Now this is certainly not good advertising for the Church, and it is not good for the members of the family. We should always be kind to and considerate of one another and of our neighbors. In fact, as one author has said, "Our business is to make ourselves better and others happier, and that is enough to keep us busy."

I have known of youth and new converts who have become inactive and left the Church because of actions of members. I have often asked myself, as I am sure you have, what effect are my life and my actions having on those around me, my children, my neighbors, and my friends?

Gossip in the home, too, is a very dangerous practice, and should not be indulged in. Very often that which you hear is not true, and if it were, it does not do anyone any good to talk disparagingly about his neighbor. As the beautiful song says, "If you're the first a fault to see, be not the first to make it known." We must love one another.

Jesus said:

892
