[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 824 | PDF Page 863]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 824 (PDF page 863) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

mind wandered back to Vera who had presence of mind enough
Holly. Where had she gone? to administer artificial respiration
Who was the fellow she had driv- and mouth-to-mouth breathing.
en off with? She owed a lot to Vera Holly.

"Marion Coombs, will you curb Jim Holly hadn't spent as
your impulsive thoughts?" she much time with her and Wally
chided. lately as he used to. Well, he

Yet, thinking about the Holly hadn't spent as much time with
family was part of her living. the family either. He was so tied
They had bought these houses up in his real estate business,
side by side before either couple which was booming in all direc-
had any children. Marion remem- tions.
bered the day she and Wally had Poor, dear, faithful Wally was
moved in. Vera and Jim had still plugging away in the electric
come over to help them with the repair shop on a hit-and-miss sal-
heavy furniture. They had even ary. But they managed and were
set out the trees together. These happy, and that was what count-
dear old evergreens, quaking asp- ed most. Yet it was hard to see
en, and silver maple trees now one's friends who had started out
shaded their homes as if they had with nothing, just the same as
been planted by Father Adam yourselves, to watch them ad-
... well almost. vance and be successful financial-

As the children came along, ly. But, Marion told herself,
they, too, had become fast friends. money wasn't everything. She
Many a ball game they had had wondered again about Vera Hol-
across the street in the park to- ly, and where she was spending
gether. Lately, since young John the day.
Holly and Wally J. were big
enough, their fun had included MARION found time to study her
bowling and overnight fishing ex- literature lesson for Relief So-
cursions with their fathers. ciety, and to read the Doctrine

Marion remembered the day and Covenants assignment for
the Holly house had caught on the theology lesson. She even
fire. There hadn't been a great pasted pictures in her Book of
deal of damage, and yet the house Remembrance before the children
was smoked up in every room, came home from school.
and Marion had invited the fam-
ily to come over and sleep and At last the clock's hands moved
eat at her home until they could themselves to four-thirty, and the
renovate and repair the damage. children, one by one, shouted

Marion remembered, too, one "Mother," as they came in the
day when her own little Susie front door. And in answer to
had come up missing. She and each one she replied sweetly:
Vera trudged every street in the "Right here, dear."
area on foot. How they could
have used a car that day! They It was nice having the children
had finally found little Susie up around her, Marion thought. She
on Elmer Drive in a swimming liked to hear how Wally J. was
pool. It had been Vera Holly coming with his advanced math,

even though she couldn't help
him anymore, because he had

824
