[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 472 | PDF Page 493]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 82% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 472 (PDF page 493) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

often devoting a full lesson to just one or two short stories or poems.

It would be desirable and beneficial to the Relief Society sisters if they would obtain copies of the new text and come to meetings prepared to discuss poems, stories, etc., contained therein. Fairly extensive comments on the selections are printed in the text, but these pertain principally to critical analysis and interpretation rather than to historical or geographical background. They are meant to supplement rather than substitute for a reading of the works themselves. Literature is vivid and exciting and provocative and inspiring — but only when it is read. And it should be read not only by the literature leaders but also by all of the Relief Society sisters.

The selections in the new book — and therefore the lessons also — are arranged by theme (subject matter) rather than by time or country. In the past, several years have been spent on English literature, including two years on Shakespeare, and several years on American literature. Now the selections will be drawn from world literature — some modern and some ancient, some from one language and some from another, some of one type and some of another. Experience persuades us that the best story or poem for group discussion is one that focuses on some psychological, philosophical, or ethical question, yielding insight into human values, ideals, truths, problems, and frustrations. The new book contains selections rich in such insights, and these insights are emphasized in the textual analysis of the works.

Three standards have controlled the selection of each poem or story included in the new text: (1) that it be literature of high quality; (2) that it explore subject matter and convey a message of value to the women of the Church and their families; (3) that it be written in such a way as to be understandable and meaningful to the readers for whom it is intended. This third point presents a special problem because the Relief Society membership includes women of such varied background. So that the book can be as useful and meaningful as possible, each section contains some relatively difficult selections and some relatively easy ones. Comments in the lessons in the Relief Society Magazine will suggest ways of using these selections for different groups. Also, the book contains in each section a number of "extra" selections, intended to supplement and enrich the lesson material itself and to provide reading material for use in the homes of the Relief Society sisters.

The lesson titles and objectives for 1964-65 are as follows:

Lesson 1 — The Appreciation and Criticism of Literature
Objective: To develop the insight into literature which comes from an understanding of the principles of literary criticism.

Lesson 2 — Literature "Tasted . . . Swallowed . . . Digested"
Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight.

473
