[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 907 | PDF Page 950]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 907 (PDF page 950) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

yon, and she caught sight of the panorama of the valley with the lake in the distance, she caught her breath with its sheer beauty. The faraway mountains were capped with snow. This was a fitting climax to her journey. It was really worth coming one fourth of the way around the world.

For the first time she began to feel nervous about meeting the Knowltons. Clay had been so friendly that she had taken it for granted his family would be the same. But would they? Well, she need not stay with them for very long. As soon as she found a job she would also find her own place to live. It was just a matter of getting settled.

The bus rolled into the rear of the station and stopped. They piled out as quickly as they could.

"Does your aunt meet you here, or do you go on to Provo?" she asked.

"Our ticket says Provo," answered Pauline. "Is it much farther?"

"I don't know. We'll ask at the office."

They walked up the ramp and into the waiting room. Elsa looked around eagerly to see if she could locate the Knowltons. She had sent a telegram from Chicago telling the exact time she should arrive. But how would she know them — or they her? The room was full of people.

Her first concern was for the children, however. She found that their bus would not leave for another half hour. They walked around the room a couple of times for exercise, then went into the lunch room for a glass of milk and a bun. By that time their bus was called, and she took them down again to put them on. "In a little more than an hour you'll be there," she said. "I hope that you have a wonderful time this winter."

"Thank you," they said, looking very doubtful.

She went back again and sat down to wait. By now she felt as nervous as the children had looked. What if no one came? She had their address, but should she take a cab to their home? Maybe they had changed their minds about meeting her. Then what would she do?

She was becoming just a trifle desperate when her name was called over the loud-speaker. With a sigh of relief, she jumped to her feet and hurried over to the information desk.

She recognized them at once and wondered how she could have missed them before. Mr. Knowlton was Clay just twenty years older. Mrs. Knowlton held out her hand and said "Elsa! We're so sorry to have missed you. We didn't recognize you because of the children. We were looking for someone alone."

"Of course," she smiled. "I didn't think of that."

She shook hands with Mr. Knowlton and he gathered up her bags. "This way," he said, leading them towards the north door.

Just outside Elsa looked up to where the golden angel on a lofty spire caught the rays of the setting sun. She wanted to stand there and look — and look. Mrs. Knowlton touched her arm and smiled as she said, "Come, my dear. It will be there for a long time."

(To be continued)

907
