[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 900 | PDF Page 943]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 82% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 900 (PDF page 943) ---
DECEMBER 1964

pete, South Sanpete, Garfield, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, and Wayne Stakes. The chorus was directed by Sister Florence J. Madsen of the General Board, with Elder Roy M. Darley at the organ.

Due to building construction surrounding the Relief Society Building, the reception usually held on the Wednesday evening of the Conference for stake and mission officers had been cancelled.

The Thursday morning session on October 1 was a departmental meeting in the Tabernacle featuring the three courses of study and the visiting teacher messages for the coming season. The visiting teacher presentation "Beyond Each Door," written by Alberta H. Christensen, depicted blessings that may be realized in homes throughout the Church through application of the visiting teacher messages. The enlightenment that can come into a woman's life through study of the teachings contained in the Doctrine and Covenants was dramatically portrayed in the theology presentation "The Lighted Path," by Luacine C. Fox. "Out of the Best Books" was the title of the presentation written by Celestia J. Taylor introducing the new literature course which portrayed some of the authors to be studied and some of the selections. The textbook with this same title which had been prepared at the direction of the General Board was also featured. The concluding year of the social science course of study, "Divine Law and Church Government," which has been written by Dr. Ariel S.

Ballif, was featured by an excellent address by Dr. Ballif. The message of the course was further highlighted through impressive scriptural readings by Genevieve F. Wright and a beautiful duet by J. Stuart and Clara McMaster.

Separate departments for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, music leaders, Magazine representatives, visiting teacher message leaders, theology, literature, and social science class leaders, and work meeting leaders were conducted in the afternoon for the respective stake and mission leaders, at which specific instructions related to the various areas of the work were presented. An outstanding display of articles suitable for work meeting activities was a part of the work meeting department. General Authorities addressed two of the departments — Elder Harold B. Lee, a Relief Society Adviser from the Council of the Twelve, spoke to stake and mission Relief Society presidencies. Elder Lee emphasized the importance of gospel teaching in the home and told of the plan for coordinating these teachings in the home through the Priesthood, with special emphasis on the responsibility of Relief Society members as mothers in this home teaching. Elder Paul H. Dunn of the First Council of Seventy discussed with theology class leaders techniques for conducting stimulating class discussions to assure the sisters gaining the most from the lessons.

As the respective departmental sessions concluded, a spirit of gratitude for the blessings of the past two days filled the hearts

900
