[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 852 | PDF Page 891]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 852 (PDF page 891) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

Grand Junction Stake (Colorado) Relief Society Presents "A Festival of Arts"
April 10, 1964

Betty Christensen and Eudona Ficklin, left to right, are seen displaying a picture frame painted white, with flowers arranged on a blue velvet background. A tiered satin fruit arrangement and a "marble" centerpiece are also shown in the picture.

Josephine Prinster, President, Grand Junction Stake Relief Society, reports: "On April 10, 1964, the Grand Junction Stake Relief Society presented 'A Festival of Arts,' culminating approximately a year's efforts in handiwork by the sisters of the stake. Work meeting leader Eudona Ficklin and Second Counselor Betty Christensen were responsible for spearheading this project. Over one thousand members and guests thrilled with us as they viewed the festival. The objective was to introduce the purpose and activities of Relief Society to our friends and neighbors through our theme 'Nothing to sell — just something to share.'

"The members of the stake Relief Society board welcomed the guests as they entered the cultural hall and explained the 'Relief Society Picture,' which was portrayed by displays from each department in large gold frames. Attractively arranged Relief Society Magazines were presented to interested guests.

"Lavender, turquoise, and rose canopied booths captured the eye in a beautiful garden scene, where hundreds of beautiful displays of handiwork were proudly shown. Some of the booths were: 'Stitches of Love' (the clothing display); 'We Did It Over' (new things from old); 'A Hook, a Needle, and a Spool of Thread' (the fancywork booth); 'The Staff of Life' (bakery booth); 'The Cover-Ups' (aprons, of course); 'The Bedtime Story' (quilts and pillows). Then there were 'The Knit Shop' and 'Talent in Action.' A garden scene was the setting for two lovely mannequins, modeling hand-sewed wedding gowns, and displaying a hand-decorated wedding cake.

"To further interest our guests were two authentic and exquisite foreign cookery scenes entitled 'Under the Yum-Yum Tree.' These featured a Hawaiian luau, complete with grass shack and pretty maidens who gave away delicious tidbits; and a Japanese scene, with blossoming cherry trees and a lovely lady cooking sukiyaki on a hibachi.

"We feel that the Lord certainly blessed us in that so many hearts were stirred — not only in admiration for the creative beauty they saw, but with a desire to know more about the gospel, which is responsible for our wonderful Priesthood-inspired Relief Society."

Midvale Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, May 2-3, 1964

Stake chorister Mellisa Beckstead (in white dress) is seated at the right in the front row; the fourth sister at the right of the pulpit is chorister Maxine Allmendinger; and the third sister is Marguerite Wright, President, Midvale Stake Relief Society; standing in the back row at the left is First Counselor Laura Tripp.

Sister Wright reports: "Each month at Relief Society leadership meeting a chorus from one of the wards has furnished special music. Our Cumorah (Spanish) Branch sang in Spanish when they furnished the musical number."

852
