[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 60 | PDF Page 61]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 60 (PDF page 61) ---
JANUARY 1964

Such an allusion seems to carry with it the importance of the message since it is to be made known without shame or diffidence on the part of the Lord's servant. The following testimony of President Brigham Young is typical of those who have received the truth and made it a part of their lives:

When I first commenced preaching, I made up my mind to declare the things that I understood, fearless of friends and foes, and regardless of caresses. They were nothing to me, for it was my duty to rise before a congregation of strangers and say that the Lord lives, that He has revealed Himself in this our day, that He has given to us a Prophet, and brought forth the new and everlasting covenant for the restoration of Israel, and if that was all I could say, I must be just as satisfied as though I could get up and talk for hours. . . .

With regard to preaching, let a man present himself before the Saints, or go into the world before the nobles and great men of the earth, and let him stand up full of the Holy Ghost, full of the power of God, and though he may use words and sentences in an awkward style, he will convince and convert more, of the truth, than can the most polished orator destitute of the Holy Ghost; for that Spirit will prepare the minds of the people to receive the truth, and the spirit of the speaker will influence the hearers so that they will feel it (Journal of Discourses 4:21).

Missionaries are promised by the Lord that if they labor faithfully, they "shall be laden with many sheaves, and crowned with honor, and glory, and immortality, and eternal life" (D & C 75:5).

Missionary Assignments
Section 75 contains many missionary assignments. (D & C 75:6-17, 30-36.) The names of some of these elders are well known in our history, such as Orson Hyde, Orson Pratt, Hyrum Smith, and others, but some are mentioned about whom little is known. This does not mean, however, that their labors were not as acceptable to the Lord nor that their reward will not be as great as the well-known. The promise of eternal glory is for all the faithful, whether apostle or elder. Each will be judged by his performance in accordance with his opportunities for service. (On pages 415-440 of the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary will be found biographical sketches of the elders referred to in Section 75.)

How should these elders find success in their missionary labors? This was the question which they desired the Prophet to ask of the Lord. The answer was that they should pray to the Lord that he might give the Comforter which would teach the things that were necessary for them to have. (D & C 75:10-11.)

This is the way of the true missionary. Circumstances vary due to the area, people, and the particular circumstances at the moment of contacting the prospective investigator. Divine guidance is the answer in all of these cases; nonetheless, the missionary is to study the people and the culture. The key to receiving the benefits of the Holy Ghost is prayer. The Lord does not give if the person does not knock. The missionary is given the promise that through his faithfulness the Lord will be with him to the end. (Ibid., verses 13-14.) Others are told that by their faithfulness they shall overcome all things, resulting in their being lifted up at the last day. (Ibid., verse 16.) These promises enforce the truth that constancy and

60
