[Vol51 | October | Magazine Page 783 | PDF Page 818]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 783 (PDF page 818) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Church) to teach what the Lord has revealed?

4. What is meant by the keys of the kingdom and who has the use of them?

Who receives the benefit of their use?

5. Explain what is meant by the scripture "unto whom much is given much is required."

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 60 — ". . . That Every Man May Improve Upon His Talent, That Every Man May Gain Other Talents, Yea, Even an Hundred Fold . . ." (D&C 82:18).

For First Meeting, January 1965

Objective: To illustrate that as we develop the talents with which we have been blessed, our abilities will be magnified and expanded.

ONE of the misfortunes in life is the tendency of all of us to underestimate the talents and abilities with which we have been blessed. Most of us never realize nor develop, more than a fraction of our potentialities. The reason this is true, is that we fail to use and improve upon the talents with which we have been blessed. Utilizing our talents not only develops them, but also lays the foundation for the growth of additional talents. One of the great truths of life is that as we utilize, develop, and magnify our abilities, we gain the power and the strength to move on to higher and more important accomplishments. This thought from Ralph Waldo Emerson has been frequently emphasized as a tru-

ism, that as we continue in the performance of any task that task becomes easier, not because its nature has changed, but because our ability to perform it has improved. In other words, there is no doubt about the truthfulness of the statement that "practice makes perfect."

The reality and accuracy of this message from the Doctrine and Covenants, that as we improve upon our talents we gain additional talents, was realistically demonstrated in the personal experience of a certain individual. This individual had received a beautiful patriarchal blessing. Among other things, this blessing stipulated that she possessed talents which she had not adequately developed.

783
