[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 905 | PDF Page 948]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 905 (PDF page 948) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

CYNTHIA turned away. "But it is too late now, for Ralph and me."

"It is never too late to plan for eternity," said Elsa.

"What do you mean?"

"I cannot explain it all well enough. But if you will just see the missionaries, they will tell you."

"But these missionaries—why, they are only boys! Those we saw today can't be much more than twenty years old."

"That is right. Most of them are in their early twenties. They spend two years or more in the field. Not only do they go without pay, but they take care of all their own expenses while they are abroad."

"But why?"

"Because they have something very precious and wonderful to share with everyone in the world. You will see that is true, if you will just give yourself the chance."

Cynthia said no more, but Elsa was quite sure she had been impressed enough so that she would remember.

They reached New York early on Tuesday morning and missed breakfast in order to stand on the deck and be greeted by the Statue of Liberty and the magnificent skyline of the great city.

"Are you stopping over here at all?" asked Cynthia.

"No. I cannot afford to do so, much as I would like. I am going straight to a bus station and take the first one out for Salt Lake City."

"That's an awful long ride," said Cynthia. "You'll be dead tired without any stops."

"Then I'll go to sleep," said Elsa cheerfully. "Clay told me to get out and walk around at each rest stop, and it wouldn't be too bad. Besides, it will be a wonderful way to see the country."

"You'll sure see a lot of it before you get to Utah. And some of it is going to look mighty dry and barren after what you're used to in Europe. If you were just going to Wisconsin now . . ." Cynthia sighed. "It's gorgeous in the fall."

"Then I'm glad for your sake," said Elsa. "I hope it will be very bright for you."

They said goodbye, and Elsa took a taxi to the bus station. Even that short ride through the busy streets of New York was an exciting adventure. Everything had been wonderful so far. Surely the future would be also!

Leaving the city again was interesting. There seemed to be no end to the industrial section. But at last, they had left it behind and were out in the open country. She remembered Clay's advice to do all the walking she could at any stop and so far, was enjoying every mile of the trip. The countryside was interesting and beautiful in the fall colors. She was deeply content.

THE bus reached Chicago just after noon the next day, and she had a four-hour stopover before leaving again for the West. She walked down one of the streets from the station and was amazed at all the noise and bustle. There were more automobiles than she had seen in all of her life before—and more people. She wasn't sure that she liked it at all, and

905
