[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 526 | PDF Page 550]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 526 (PDF page 550) ---
YOUR HEART TO UNDERSTANDING

"The big job was getting here, Josiah. I stayed to see that finished. You say I can't leave. When Selena decides to make her decision, I've already told her this, that if it is in favor of Quale, I'm ready for the return trip."

A few days later Lon left the camp for a time. He had been called to accompany the leaders to the northern part of the State in an effort to raise money for the down payment on the ranch. Josiah, too, had had a chance to make the trip and would have liked very much to go, but thoughts of Belle being left without him at that time, made him decide to stay in camp with her.

Josiah thought it best not to mention to Belle that he had been asked to make the trip. If he gave the slightest inkling that he wished to be going along, he knew how insistent she would be that he do so. This was going to be his first son (it had never occurred to him that it might be a girl), and whether Belle thought it was necessary or not for him to be present, Josiah had no intention of being away when his son was born.

"KEEP your eyes open, Lon," Josiah told him on the morning Lon rode over to say goodbye. "I've always wanted to see some of the gold diggings. How far are you going?"

"There are a number of Mormons working in both San Francisco and Sacramento. We plan to visit Mormon Island and any other mining camps where we hear of members of the Church being located."

Lon removed his right glove, holding his reins lightly in his left hand and leaned down to shake hands with Josiah.

"Good-bye, Josiah," he said. "See you in a few weeks."

"Good-bye, Lon. I'll take good care of Selena while you are away."

Lon replaced his glove and glanced toward the wagon where he could see Belle and Selena watching.

"I have an idea," he said, "that you're going to have plenty of help."

He touched his hat in a farewell gesture to the two women and rode off at a gallop. The parting puzzled Josiah, but then he could not know, and Lon would be the last to tell, of his attempt to see Selena the evening before.

Lon had decided that perhaps he had been too reluctant to make a good fight for the girl he loved. Yet he had a great fear of pushing himself in where he might not be wanted. Then, suddenly, he had decided to make an attempt to see her alone before he had to leave. He had shaved, cleaned up the best he could, and walked through the grove toward Josiah's wagon.

There was a full moon lighting the valley and Lon breathed deeply of the fresh night air. The white trunks of the sycamores stood out plainly in the moonlight. And then Lon saw them. He hadn't intended to spy but when he saw Quale take Selena in his arms, Lon stood transfixed. It was a lingering kiss, and Lon suffered the agony of every second. Then he had turned, moving quickly and silently, glad that they had not noticed him, and returned to his own camp and a sleepless night.

(To be continued)

527
