[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 490 | PDF Page 514]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 490 (PDF page 514) ---
DISCIPLINING CHILDREN IN THE L.D.S. HOME

1. The Gospel of Jesus Christ Is a Gospel of Love

Psychologists tell us that the love a child feels is given to him in the first few months of his life has a great deal to do with his whole outlook on life. The child who feels loved and feels good about himself has the capacity to love and feel warm toward those around him. The unconditional love of parents for each child is the strong foundation upon which all other teachings rest.

2. Children Are Born With the Capacity to Grow and Develop Through Learning and Training

Perhaps this is so self-evident that it might seem unnecessary to include it. However, this concept is an important part of our Heavenly Father's plan. If the child were not a dynamic, growing individual, he could not take part in this marvelous plan. It is important for parents to realize that the child is learning and developing every moment of his life. Regardless of what we do or do not do, the child continues to learn something. It is our responsibility to make sure that he is learning the right things.

3. Children, As Children of God, Are Essentially Good

Christ taught that "Except ye . . . become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven" (Mt. 18:3). In latter-day revelation, the Lord also tells us:

But, behold, I say unto you, that little children are redeemed from the foundation of the world through mine Only Begotten; Wherefore, they cannot sin, for power is not given unto Satan to tempt little children, until they begin to become accountable before me (D&C 29:46-47).

To say that children are basically good does not mean that they do not misbehave. It does mean that misbehavior results from different understandable causes (which we will talk about later) rather than from an inherently bad nature.

It is clear that a parent who looks upon the small child as a child of God will react differently to his misbehavior than will one who sees the child as bad.

4. Free Agency Is Basic to Man's Development

One of the main purposes of man's mortal life is to afford him the opportunity to choose between good and evil. The responsibility of parents is to teach their children not only the difference between right and wrong, but also how to make the choice. The child first learns to be obedient to authority. He accepts right choices because he knows that someone who has authority over him (his parent, teacher, the policeman, or others) will approve his doing so, or punish him if he does not. However, there is no particular virtue in refraining from stealing an apple when the policeman is watching. It is only when we refrain when we know nobody will find out, that it becomes a right choice.

WITH these four principles in mind, we need next to define the word discipline. Many parents equate it with punishment. However, Webster defines it as "training that develops self-control,

491
