[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 463 | PDF Page 484]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 463 (PDF page 484) ---
Florida Mission, Florida West District Visiting Teachers Honored
October 27, 1963

Front row, left to right: Carol Jean Sweetwood, theology class leader; Tottie Brown, visiting teacher adviser; Effie Tucker (thirty-four years of visiting teaching); Thursa Adisson (seventy-eight years old, oldest visiting teacher); Sister Wilson Allred, youngest visiting teacher; Stella Herring, President, West Florida District Relief Society.

Back row, left to right: Nona Goodson, First Counselor; Florence Ewing, pianist; Dorothy Britsch, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Norton, Second Counselor; Tura Lee Buzzett, Magazine representative; Mary Etta Williamson, literature class leader; Loree Finefoth, social science class leader, and Gayle Farnsworth, chorister, were not present when the picture was taken.

Ollie Hutchinson, President, Florida Mission Relief Society, reports: "The West Florida District honored the visiting teachers at leadership meeting, October 27, 1963. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was presented and enjoyed by all present. We feel that all were inspired by the meeting to be more prompt and faithful in magnifying their callings as visiting teachers. Corsages and Relief Society pins were presented to the sister with the most years of service, to the oldest sister, and to the youngest."

Gooding Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Board
October 1963

Front row, left to right: former President Nina Beth G. Cunningham; Education Counselor Rula B. Johnson; Work Director Counselor Ada H. Reid; Secretary-Treasurer Rue Spencer.

Back row, standing, left to right: Nellie H. Weaver, chorister; Virgie T. Packer, organist; Viola J. Gold, Magazine representative; Mary G. Lancaster, visiting teacher message leader; Juanita Hendrix, work meeting leader; Lucille A. Gibbs, literature class leader. Ulden Shupe, social science class leader.

Sister Cunningham reports: "For the first time in the history of Gooding Stake in Southern Idaho, the full stake board attended the Relief Society Annual General Conference in October 1963, with the exception of the theology class leader, which position was not filled at that time. These sisters expressed great appreciation for the wonderful inspiration and helps given by the capable General Board sisters, and by the General Authorities. Each of the stake board members in the picture has served for many years in Relief Society work, and has given faithful and devoted service."

Elaine P. Dixon is the new president of Gooding Stake Relief Society.

Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Relief Society Annual Christmas Exhibit
November 21, 1963

Left to right: Annalesa Strom, a native of Sweden, who demonstrated Christmas customs in Sweden; Evelyn Lewis, Work Director Counselor, Cowley Ward; Helen Snell, work meeting leader, Cowley Ward.

Pauline R. Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "Each ward exhibit outlined outstanding work and demonstrated the Christmas customs of other lands and served each visitor with a taste of native foods served at Christmastime in that land. The stake Relief Society board served punch and pretty cookies to all who attended, from a beautiful Christmas table. The purpose of this exhibit each year is to help our own sisters and give them ideas for Christmas, and also to interest nonmembers. It has grown so large we are afraid our cultural hall will not be large enough for one day's display. Between five and six hundred people attended."

464
