[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 187 | PDF Page 196]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 187 (PDF page 196) ---
DON'T YOU LOVE YOUR SISTERS!

in-cheek letters about the goings-on in the Golden State.

Ruth was our baby. She still is. I wonder if it's this way with all families. We five have been adults for many years, but Plet is still the "big" sister, and Ruth is the "baby." We look to Plet for a certain amount of guidance and are all rather free with our advice to Ruth. Anyway, be that as it may, Ruth was a very satisfactory little one, singing about "Master, the tempest is raging; the pillows are tossing high," and other interesting things. She was always bringing cats home and producing them from behind her back with a hearttelt ple-e-ease! This method had never worked with us older girls, but it did with Ruth. It's a wonder, though, that we didn't kill her. By the time she came along the rest of us were climbing the cottonwoods and walking the ridgepole of the barn with no trouble at all. As soon as Ruth could toddle we dragged her along. I was so used to romping around on top of the barn that I could not understand why neighbor children acted nervous, or why Ruth slipped once and hung, her skirt attached to a nail on the edge of the roof, until rescued. Ruth now has six little ones of her own. We talk together on the phone nearly every day, and her remarks are always interspersed with little "careful-there-Louis" and "well-go-get-the-mop, dear." She has an almost limitless capacity for love and patience and she is never, believe it or not, in

the least degree critical of anyone.

These, then, are my sisters. My blood sisters. Any time I see any one of them I am gloriously happy, and we talk, talk, talk.

And now I come to the thought that inspired this article.

I was sitting in Relief Society one Tuesday, enjoying and being mellowed by an exceptionally fine social science lesson. My eye fell on one sister who is so stalwart and good, upon sisters who have devoted their lives to others, a sister who has three sons on missions; the members of our presidency, who shoulder so uncomplainingly the heavy burden of work that their offices entail, of whose sweet spirits do much to insure that our meetings are always inspirational and worthwhile. As I looked at these sisters and the many other dear ones present that day, I felt the same glow of love, the same spiritual closeness that I feel for my physical sisters. And I realized, as I mentioned earlier, the preciousness of the relationship, and felt extremely blessed for having sisters in such abundance.

The picture came to me of Relief Societies meeting all over the world all of them attended by women who are striving to live the principles of the gospel, all united by a spiritual tie. How wonderful it is to be associated together! I am sure that all of you, everywhere, say it with me. Love our sisters? Oh, indeed, indeed we do.

187
