[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 717 | PDF Page 748]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 717 (PDF page 748) ---
by him, as examples of the poetry of faith.

In addition to the discussion of Wordsworth given on these pages, the Relief Society literary text contains other material on Wordsworth, including a full printing of the "Intimations of Immortality" ode and "Character of the Happy Warrior." It also contains an introductory discussion stressing that although there is much pessimism and negativism in some works of literature, through the centuries men of literature, and especially poets, have traditionally been defenders of man's faith and champions of his spiritual ideals. A full discussion of several poems by the great Robert Browning is also included in this section of the text (also to be used for next month's lesson), with supplementary discussions of poems by William Blake, Emily Dickinson, Francis Thompson, Gerard Manley Hopkins, and Edith Sitwell. If the literature class leader desires, these supplementary selections may be used in the Relief Society lessons to enrich this material on Wordsworth — as determined by the special needs of the ward or branch.

Thoughts and Questions for Discussion:
1. To what extent does the wisdom of maturity serve as "abundant recompense" for a loss of the spontaneous joys of youth, as Wordsworth says in "Intimations of Immortality"?

2. To what extent do children have intuitive knowledge of truth, as Wordsworth also says?

3. Discuss the meaning of the two closing lines of "Intimations of Immortality":
    To me the meanest flower
        that blows can give
    Thoughts that do often lie
        too deep for tears.

4. From the viewpoint of modern psychology, discuss the meaning of Wordsworth's line: "The child is father of the man." Does your experience support this view of the relationship of maturity to childhood?

5. Discuss the qualities identified by Wordsworth as making an ideal leader of men ("Character of the Happy Warrior"). Are they too lofty to be realistic? Do you know any leaders who measure up?

SOCIAL SCIENCE   Divine Law and Church Government

No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season.

717
