[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 808 | PDF Page 847]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 808 (PDF page 847) ---
NOVEMBER 1964

will know why they are to be baptized and that they may be impressed in their hearts with a desire to continue to keep the commandments of God after they are baptized, that they may come back into his presence (Ibid., page 148).

Discipline is embodied in the gospel of Christ. It is fundamental to good child rearing, but must be wisely exercised.

Brigham Young early taught Latter-day Saint parents wise principles of child government: "Bring up your children in love," said President Young, "... study their dispositions and their temperaments, and deal with them accordingly, never allowing yourself to correct them in the heat of passion" (Ibid., page 23).

Elder Orson Pratt enlarges, as follows, upon this counsel, which unfortunately is still needed among us in some instances:

Do not correct your children in anger. Be deliberate and calm in your counsels and reproofs, but at the same time use earnestness and decision.... Do not find fault with every trifling error you may see, for this will discourage your family, and they will begin to think it is impossible to please you; and after a while they will become indifferent as to whether they please you or not.... Do not be so stern in your family government as to render yourself an object of fear and dread (Ibid., page 29).

Elder Harold B. Lee emphasizes the need for the spiritual touch: "The maintenance of spiritual contacts, the exercise of family prayers, the constant attention to Church duties, have all been some of the things that have helped these [our L.D.S.] homes to be successful" (Ibid., page 159).

The Church has always taught us the importance of learning, and since pioneer days has provided schools. Parents have been urged to encourage their children to seek education. This seems particularly important in today's competitive world.

President John Taylor spoke of the need to educate our children, to afford them opportunities for instruction and learning, as follows:

We do not want a posterity to grow up that will be ignorant... but one that will be intelligent and wise, possessing literary and scientific attainments, and a knowledge of everything that is good, praiseworthy, intellectual and beneficial to the world... (Ibid., page 26).

It is noteworthy that today, when individual liberty is threatened in so many ways, President McKay places upon the home responsibility for teaching this divine principle. Says President McKay:

The home is the best place in the world to teach the highest ideal in the social and political life of man; namely, perfect liberty of action so long as you do not trespass upon the rights and privileges of another (Ibid., page 6).

A host of our leaders have given the same counsel as to the most effective means of teaching our children. Elder Howard W. Hunter puts it in these words: "We should be good examples to our children, for the greatest teaching is done by way of example... This is the great challenge of parenthood" (Ibid., page 51).

Latter-day Saints have often referred to themselves as a peculiar people, accepting the definition of peculiar not as queer

808
