[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 885 | PDF Page 928]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 885 (PDF page 928) ---
EFFECTS OF HOME INFLUENCE

ing stars in her life, righteousness and godliness, and an irresistible impulse and desire to make others happy, no one will question if she be classed among those who are truly great."

President McKay is truly a prophet of God and what a strength you must feel in knowing that he loves you and is praying for your success and well-being every day. Also, with the association of your Advisers, the General Authorities, and with the President of the Church himself, you have the guidance of the Priesthood, which is not enjoyed by any other women's organization in the world.

The work and accomplishments of this great organization have been outstanding throughout the years. I should like to refer to two real contributions and accomplishments this year with which I am personally acquainted.

THE SINGING MOTHERS

First, is the Singing Mothers who sang at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City in May, at the time of the Awards Luncheon of the American Mothers Committee Incorporated.

The other is the Singing Mothers who sang in July at the New York World's Fair. As Sister Tanner and I attended the Singing Mothers Concert at the World's Fair, we were deeply impressed, in fact, we were thrilled to be members of the Church to which they belonged. Though the people were there to see the sights of the World's Fair, they remained by the hundreds to hear the chorus to the end, and, at the close, they gave a standing ovation of appreciation. The women were inspired; they had fasted and prayed; they sang more beautifully as a result of the Spirit of the Lord which accompanied them, and which was felt by those who listened.

I have here today a scrapbook which contains news clippings from 372 newspapers, scattered throughout forty States of the Union, and one from Canada. I cannot show you these so you can see them, but it certainly is encouraging to me and helps me understand how this great work is appreciated throughout this country.

We see pictures that these big newspapers in California and other States use — space like this where the pictures of the Singing Mothers are shown. Here is another one, and they are scattered throughout this book. Here they have given another space for the picture of the Church Pavilion at the Fair. I could show you several others, but you cannot see them from where you are, but it does show how the influence of the Singing Mothers has been felt throughout this country.

As I look through the book, I find a number of articles from each of the following states: California, Indiana, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, and Texas, and others. Though I cannot vouch for the statistics and the figures which are given here, I want you to know what the world is saying about our Singing Mothers and the effect they are having in different areas. I want to read these, because then you know just what is being said about the

885
