[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 47 | PDF Page 48]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 47 (PDF page 48) ---
KISS OF THE WIND

THE boys had a rollicking time for the next hour, laughing and sliding and splashing mud all over each other. They were covered from top to bottom.

"Time to wash up," Ben said. "That picnic lunch will taste mighty good after these mud pies."

They found a stream in the poppy field and waded there in the bubbling water. Tutu had brought a bar of soap in her muu-muu pocket, and each took a turn washing off the mud. Then they went to the jeeps and station wagon to change into clean, dry clothes.

Luana spread a large straw mat on the grass, while Philip brought the picnic baskets brimming with food. There were wooden bowls for poi and mugs for pine and mint punch. A large, high basket held the birthday cake. There were dozens of sandwiches and large, crunchy chips, and sweet pickles.

When everyone was seated on the grass around the mat, Ben asked Philip to say the blessing. Luana thought she had never heard him offer such a heart-warming prayer. Words of gratitude came from his heart with fresh new vigor and meaning. Until this moment she had not realized how mature her oldest son had become.

There was a hushed silence when Philip said "Amen," as if each one had felt the love and gratitude he expressed.

"Well . . ." Ben said at last, "shall we taste Mama's good sandwiches? Margaret, would you like one of tuna? We catch these fish in our own lagoon. Tuna is our mainstay in these parts."

Soon the children were eating as though they had never tasted anything so good.

Sam Henri, a little Japanese boy with a cute, winsome smile, looked up at Tutu.

"My mother says you make the best poi in all Hawaii," he said. "She was almost afraid to send some of her Japanese sushi to drop in your poi."

"Japanese sushi!" Tutu exclaimed. "Those are vinegar rice balls. We will love them, Sam Henri."

SAM Henri jumped to his feet and ran to the jeep. He came back with a covered basket filled with tasty rice balls.

"Mm-m-m! Good!" Margaret said, as she ate one. "That's a new taste for me. I thought I had tasted everything."

"Sam Henri," Tutu said, "you tell your mother that I think she makes the best sushi in all Hawaii!"

After luncheon they leaned back in the tall grass and rested in the afternoon sunshine. Tutu told them Bible stories and legends of old Hawaii. Gradually, she led them into Sunday School songs, and the valley echoed with their joyous young voices.

As the sun moved toward the west, Luana, sitting beside Tutu, spoke to her in a low voice. "Sing the 'Star-Spangled Banner' so everyone will stand up. Benjy has been sleeping long enough."

So they sang the "Star-Span-

47
