[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 155 | PDF Page 160]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 155 (PDF page 160) ---
sacrifice to open the way for all mankind to have everlasting life. Whenever the Church of God has been upon the earth, its major duty has been to inform mankind of the purpose of life, man's relationship to God and to man, and to make man aware of his own possibilities and responsibilities as a child of God.

Calling people to repentance, or to accept the pattern of life that will assure them of their greatest accomplishments in life and exaltation in the celestial kingdom, is the perpetual assignment of the Priesthood.

Priesthood Quorums and Church Organization

To be effective in the lives of people and in the organization and operation of the Church, there need to be system and order in the bestowal of and the operation of the power of the Priesthood. Determining factors in making the privilege of Priesthood bestowal include worthiness of character, willingness to serve, and knowledge of the duties and obligations of the Priesthood to be conferred.

Of most importance in the effective use of power, is getting it under control and keeping it available. Proper connection with the source of the power is of vital importance. In discussing the Priesthood, God is the source of the power, it is controlled and directed only through the authorized agency upon the earth and the connections are activated by righteousness.

With every man in the Church a potential Priesthood holder, it is essential that there be effective regulations governing the use of this power. To the Priesthood holder who serves the Lord in righteousness, there is no limit in the good he can do on his own. But, to hold an office in the government or a position of leadership in any organization of the Church, he must be called to the office by the proper authority.

To provide an orderly operation and development of the Priesthood, the members holding the Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthood are organized into quorums. In The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a quorum is a specially selected or chosen body referring to all the members of that body, such as a quorum of deacons, quorum of elders, etc.

The objectives of the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums are: (1) to

LESSON DEPARTMENT

LET US HELP YOU TRAVEL
WORRY FREE
To
HAWAII and SOUTH PACIFIC
(New low fares)
EUROPE
21 Day Excursion Tours
(Save 30%)
THE HOLY LAND
including Egypt, Lebanon, Israel
Turkey, Greece and Italy
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon—March 5th)
HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT
August '64
including World's Fair in New York
(With Dr. T. Edgar Lyon)
(Authorized Agent for all Domestic and
International Carriers)

MURDOCK TRAVEL, INC.
(Bonded)
(Your Experienced Travel Counselor)
14 South Main Street
328-3161
Salt Lake City
"There is no substitute for experience"

155
