[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 95 | PDF Page 100]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 95 (PDF page 100) ---
MAMA LIVES IN THE KITCHEN

put away. He gave Linda the money for the week and said it would have to buy everything we would need.

After Mama and Papa left, Linda said we would go right out and do the marketing. Then we would do the housework and go to Lacoola Plunge for a swim.

THINGS didn't work out quite as planned. It took us much longer than we expected to do the shopping, mainly because we went to a clothing store first, and all bought new swimming suits. Linda said there was more money than we would need for groceries, and Mama said we could budget the money however we wanted. Food was more expensive than we had expected, though, and when we got everything totaled up, we found we had to take back a carton of popsicles and two boxes of Cracker Jack because we didn't have quite enough money.

When we got home Linda decided to make a cake before we washed the breakfast dishes and cleaned the house. She had forgotten to buy vanilla so she sent Cissie and me to borrow a teaspoon from Mrs. Blazer next door. We walked carefully on the way home, but we spilled the vanilla, and Linda said only a pair of dunces would go borrow a teaspoon of vanilla in a teaspoon. I said how else would we know how much to borrow and she said we could have measured it and poured it into a cup. She said you really couldn't expect too much from children. She put the cake in the oven without the vanilla, and we waited anxiously for it to bake. Linda peeked inside the oven every few minutes to see how it was progressing. When she finally took it out, it was high on one side and squashed down on the other. Linda said that was Cissie's and my fault for spilling the vanilla, but never mind because she would build it up with frosting. At dinner Mama and Papa ate their pieces without looking up at all, but Cissie and I couldn't eat ours. It tasted like a soggy sponge. Linda said we couldn't leave the table until we ate every last crumb, and Cissie cried and said she didn't want Linda to be the Mama any more. She said she would just pretend she was an orphan girl while Mama was at work.

The next day we forgot about Primary, and I ruined my perfect attendance record. Linda said it wouldn't have done any good to remember because she couldn't drive the car to take us there. I said we could have ridden with Mrs. Blazer who teaches Cissie's class, but Linda looked angry and said I couldn't expect her to think of everything, could I?

On Wednesday Cissie fell off the swing and came into the house with blood all over her face from a cut on her head. Linda said the sight of blood made her want to faint. I wanted to faint, too, but I didn't know quite how to go about it, so I cleaned Cissie up and poured half a bottle of Mercurochrome over the cut. It ran all down Cissie's face and neck and looked worse than the

95
