[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 67 | PDF Page 68]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 67 (PDF page 68) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

established institutions — social, intellectual, patriotic, economic and religious — for smugness, complacency, and mediocrity which he found to be their dominant characteristics. In detailing with meticulous and penetrating realism the human foibles of middle-class America, Lewis was both idealist and realist, hating his drab, stereotyped home town yet loving it. The seeds of all his villains and heroics lay within himself, there tossed about and torn apart by the raging conflicts which he always tried so desperately to resolve by writing them out of himself.

The Lewis Family Life
Lewis' father, Dr. E. J. Lewis, was a stern, methodical, parsimonious man, proud of his Puritan ancestors and dedicated to the virtues of responsibility and hard work. A school teacher before he began "reading medicine" in a Minnesota doctor's office, he believed strongly in education as a tool necessary for success. Lewis' mother was a fellow teacher, reared in Waseca, Minnesota, who gave birth to Harry, her third son, in 1885. She was sickly with tuberculosis and pleurisy, and died when he was six. A year later Dr. Lewis brought a stepmother into their home. She often read to "Hal," gave him the companionship not to be found in his father, and earned Hal's lifelong affection.

When the oldest brother left a Chicago dental school in mid-term he returned home to work in the flour mill and to marry, but he was never to be much either in the family or in Hal's life. It was his brother Claude who was the father's favorite son, Claude who followed his father's footsteps, to medical school and a profitable medical practice in St. Cloud, Minnesota, Claude who was wanted and successful, Claude whom the gangly, lonely, and teased Hal envied as a boy and whom he tried to impress for sixty years of his life.

Without a strong sense of belonging in his home, scorned by the one girl to whom he made puppy-love advances, left out by Claude and the older boys whom he so admired because of his being the "little brother" who always wanted to tag along, cast out by boys of his own age save for one lone friend, Hal found comforting escape in keeping a diary and in the English literature books which his father kept in the house but never mentioned. The beauty and idealism of the romantic poets best filled his needs, while nature was far more real to him in the pages of his lifelong passion, Thoreau's Walden, than were the rolling Minnesota prairies. Little as there was to do in plain Sauk Centre, decades before the advent of organized recreation, lonely Harry did less. Over six feet before he was sixteen, he was so awkward at dancing that he never learned, yet he attended the school dances by sitting in a corner and reading a book the entire evening.

When he was seventeen his parents sent him to Oberlin Academy in Ohio, a Congregational school, where he experienced a religious ferment and strongly desired to become a foreign missionary. But after a summer in Sauk Centre he forgot this dream, while his father decided on Yale as best preparation

67
