[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 209 | PDF Page 218]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 209 (PDF page 218) ---
Planning a
Successful Bazaar

Counselor Louise W. Madsen

PLAN TO PREPARE CAREFULLY

A very careful organization of all of the details of every aspect of the bazaar, is of first importance in planning a successful bazaar. The Relief Society presidency make the first decisions, based upon a consideration of what they hope to accomplish, what they have observed from experience of past bazaars, what they have learned from observing other bazaars, and what the sisters in their society would learn from their participation in bazaar preparation. The presidency oversees the entire proceedings, such as setting the date, delegating the responsibilities, and how to report procedures.

A General Chairman is selected, a very efficient sister, with a talent for organization and the faculty of arousing enthusiastic cooperation from the members. Other chairmen will be needed to work under her direction. Chairmen for various activities, and for the groups of articles to be produced may be called into the work. The following suggested divisions may be helpful: a Sewing Chairman in charge of certain articles to be sewed and helpful also in the purchase of materials; a Publicity Chairman, a Bake Sale Chairman, a Candy Booth Chairman, an Apron Chairman, a Quilting Chairman, a Toy Chairman, a Children's Clothing Chairman, a Dolls and Doll Clothes Chairman, a Household Linens Chairman, a Christmas Articles Chairman, a Dinner Chairman (if dinner is to be served), a Women's Booth Chairman, a Men's Booth Chairman, and as many others as it is decided will be needed.

These chairmen should form the bazaar committee. The committee plans to use every available sister in some capacity, so that all will lend support and have a personal interest in the success of the bazaar.

PLAN A PRETTY THEME

The most attractive bazaars are planned around a theme or a plan of decoration which extends to all booths and unifies the whole procedure. There are Christmas Fairs, Harvest Fairs, Fall or Back-to-School Round-Ups, Spring Festivals, to mention only a few.

209
