[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 466 | PDF Page 487]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 466 (PDF page 487) ---
THEOLOGY
The Doctrine and Covenants

Preview of Lessons for 1964-65

Elder Roy W. Doxey

DURING the year 1832 the Prophet Joseph Smith was in Ohio except for about two months while going to and from Jackson County, Missouri. Eleven of the fifteen Sections that make up this series of lessons were received in 1832. They consist of some of the better-known revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants. Many aspects of these revelations are presented. All of the revelations are important and should be studied as sources of wisdom and guidance in life. Included for study this year is Section 76 which has been called the grandest and most wonderful revelation on the destiny of man that has ever been revealed. The principles of justice, mercy, and love are found therein, and the magnanimity of scope involving the salvation of man has not been surpassed in any other revelation on the degrees of glory.

While the Prophet was in Missouri, the Lord gave him two revelations about the law of consecration and related subjects. At this period the Church was endeavoring to bring about the economic welfare of its members through unifying them in a body of faithful followers.

In a day when emphasis is placed upon individual responsibility to do missionary work, we learn through the Prophet Joseph Smith that no responsible person in the Church is free from this obligation. Some principles by which men shall be judged are mentioned, and the attitude of the saints toward those not of the true Church are indicated.

One of the great Priesthood revelations of this dispensation was received in 1832. The saints were imbued with the desire to learn more about the Zion of the latter days and its glory. The temple to be built in Jackson County, Missouri, appeared to be of considerable interest to the members, so the Lord gave information about this holy structure and its place in the plan of salvation. Although the male member of the Church is ordained to the Priesthood, the principles of Priesthood are applicable to the woman. Salvation, in its highest sense, comes to those who honor and magnify their callings in the kingdom of God. Tests

467
