[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 906 | PDF Page 949]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 906 (PDF page 949) ---
DECEMBER 1964

it made her think, with something akin to nostalgia, of the peaceful streets of Heidelberg.

I do hope that Salt Lake City isn't like this, she thought. But of course it won't be. It isn't nearly so large.

When she had walked as far as she thought advisable in one direction, she turned and went back again. There was still time to have an early dinner in the cafeteria before leaving.

She felt greatly rested and refreshed and, when her bus was announced, went down to get aboard with new interest that this was to be the last leg of her trip. When she left the bus for the last time she would be in Zion — the city of her dreams.

There were two children seated just across from her, a boy of about eight and a girl a bit older. They seemed lonely and somewhat frightened. She smiled at them pleasantly and asked, "Are you going very far?"

The question seemed to bring home to them the fact that they were going far indeed. The girl's eyes widened as she nodded, "Yes. Quite far. We're going to Utah."

"Good," said Elsa. "That's where I'm going, too. We'll be company all the way."

The children were obviously delighted at the prospect, and at the very next stop attached themselves very firmly. It continued this way for the rest of the trip. They stayed together at all stops and ate their meals together.

It was not long before they had poured out their story. Their father had been dead for some years. In fact, Jerry didn't remember him at all and Pauline

only slightly. Their mother was very ill now and they were going out to Provo to live with an aunt until she recovered. Then she was going to join them.

"It's almost out in the country and I can have a dog — maybe ..." Jerry volunteered. It was clear that a dog would compensate for a number of things.

IT was not long before Elsa realized how right Cynthia had been in describing the country. It had grown dark before they were very far out from Chicago, and when she awakened the next morning it was to vistas of golden fields that seemed to stretch on forever, with occasional small towns and farmhouses in between.

It was a bit forbidding, and she had to remind herself very forcibly that this was why she had come — to see the world. To see something different. Well, it was certainly different, she had to agree, thinking of the dense evergreen forests that covered the hills at home.

She was half dozing when they crossed the State line, and she just barely caught sight of the big sign announcing that they were in Utah. "Did you see that?" she called to the children. "We are almost there."

Jerry leaped to his feet, ready to get off as soon as the bus could slow down. "Not quite this soon," she laughed. "But it will be only an hour or so, I'm sure."

She had found the mountain scenery much more interesting than anything they had passed through for a long time. There were patches of scarlet and yellow leaves on the mountainsides. As they swung out of the last can-

906
