[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 82 | PDF Page 87]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 82 (PDF page 87) ---
From Near and Far

As a proselyting missionary, I have had the opportunity of assisting to organize, and to work with Relief Societies in different towns in England and Wales. I wrote to my mother about this. She is president of Relief Society in my home ward. She sent me a year's subscription to the Magazine. This offered me adventure, spirituality, and education. Within the pages of the wonderful Magazine I found all this and more. The Magazine is a wonderful missionary tool, as well.
—Elder Dale S. Call
British Mission

I thank my Heavenly Father for the warmth, sincerity, and variety of the Magazine. How true and wise are the editorials and the articles on points of doctrine. The lessons are beautifully written. The literature is superb — the best available.
—Mrs. Nedra Zitelsberger
Redondo Beach, California

I feel that I must take a moment in spite of my undone work, and thank you for the "Message to Young Mothers," by Mary M. Ellsworth, in the October Magazine. For sometime, although I have hated to admit it to myself or to anyone else, I have felt so bogged down with my housewifely tasks that I haven't known what to do. The article must have been written with me in mind! My biggest problem has been that I have so many failings, I get discouraged before I even start trying to change. Now I have a practical list of things I can do. I feel there may be hope for me after all.
—Mrs. Mildred Martindale
Rancho Cordova, California

I have just read Sister Ellsworth's "A Message to Young Mothers" in the October issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and I simply must pause to let you know that I think it is truly wonderful. Our Magazine representative said, in recommending the article to us, "I wish I had read it twenty years sooner, when I was rearing my children." Most of my own children are still being reared, and they should benefit much from my reading of this article.
—Mrs. Catherine M. Jaggi
Brigham City, Utah

I love and appreciate the Magazine, and enjoy reading the stories and poems. I have been trying out some of the recipes, and they taste real good. I especially like the cover pictures of the Magazine and the frontispieces. I am impressed with each teacher's message. The Magazine is giving me a rich and wonderful education.
—Dolly Sahadeo
Corentyne, Berbice
British Guiana

I am so thrilled with all the wonderful articles in The Relief Society Magazine. As I am a young mother, the Magazine helps me in my home and in rearing our children.
—JoAnn Slade
Cedar City, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine helps to strengthen my testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ as taught in his Church. The Magazine is filled with inspiring thoughts from wonderful leaders. The stories contain beautiful examples of right living.
—Magree G. Schaerr
Kanab, Utah

82
