[Vol51 | July | Magazine Page 486 | PDF Page 510]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 486 (PDF page 510) ---
VICTORY OVER WILDERNESS

during the long trek—the Staffordshire vase from England, the little brass kettle from a Scottish highland home, the precious china set, and the jet-beaded cape from Boston.

And they created beauty. Even in the log cabin and the early adobe houses, there were braided rugs adding interest and color to the hearth; there were the pieced quilts, attractively designed and finely stitched. Flowers grew from seeds brought all the way from "back home," and there were flower arrangements, made by skillful fingers from human hair, framed or protected under domes of glass.

I think of the adaptability of those wise women, changing what could be changed, but accepting the inevitable as such, without loss of faith, without resentment. There were lean years when harvests were meager. There were epidemics of sickness, demanding faith and courage. There were babies to bear in crowded and often isolated homes.

I think of my own grandmother, a loved and dependable midwife. According to her biography, she was interested in nursing and medicine even as a young girl in England. Because of her keen interest, she was often allowed to observe the town physician render medical services, even to such operations as the amputation of a limb. It was as if she were being prepared for the important role she was to play years later, in the pioneer communities of Utah Valley. I envision her horse and buggy journeys through many years, and through all seasons and all hours of day or night, to assist in the birth of a child. I think of the assurance her confident skill must have brought to the anxious household.

I think of the pioneer mother's resourcefulness in creating what could not be had otherwise. She improvised, used every resource available, with nothing wasted, that her growing family might be neatly clothed. Curtailment can be a great motivator, stimulating creativity and eventually placing emphasis where it should be, upon the doing, rather than upon merely having.

I recall hearing my mother relate many times, and with the light of satisfaction in her eyes, of making a bonnet to last through all her teen years. She would glean the wheat straws from the fields. Then, braiding them into three, four, or even eight strands, would sew them into attractive hats. To the end of his long life, my father could not see any of his six daughters wear a wide-brimmed summer hat, without referring to the attractive hats that mother used to make and wear. He would add nostalgically, "With drooping brim and flowers and a bow."

I think of the pioneer wife concealing from her husband, for he already had burden enough to bear, her loneliness for family and friends back home, who had not been able to see the light of the gospel message. In these days of material abundance and uncertain values, I think of the great reserve of inner strength, unconsciously developed by such self-discipline. Victory over the wilderness was more than triumph over land and drought, it was also victory over the wilderness within oneself. Many of

487
