[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 279 | PDF Page 292]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 279 (PDF page 292) ---
teach us something," he insisted, watching her face intently.

"Yes," she agreed, "I know that," her forehead wrinkled, "but what? What?"

He shrugged, absently rubbing the back of her hand with his thumb.

HAL looked at the telephone beside her bed. "You should call your mother."

"I know I should," she replied wearily, "but she'll ask 'Is everything all right?' and then what do I say? We don't even know if the baby will live or not. Besides mother has enough to worry about with Janet." He nodded reluctantly.

Janet, her little niece, was suffering from an incurable disease. The little girl's grandmother, with gentle hands, performed for Janet many tasks and helped Janet's mother so the little girl had not gone into a hospital.

Clara, on the other hand, had always regarded Janet as someone who deserved to be loved but harbored a deep feeling of guilt because in spite of this conviction, the wandering, innocent, baby eyes, aimlessly seeking hands, and the unintelligible utterings of a child of ten years had frightened her. She had been relieved to move to another city.

Now what? Would her baby be another Janet to the family? More of the same arguments . . . the whole confusing conflict all over again?

"No," Clara said decisively, "I can't call her yet . . . maybe tomorrow," she half promised before he left.

That night, the pediatrician, whom she had known for twelve years, was a stranger at the foot of her bed. The concern in his face told her before he did the results of his examination in the nursery.

CLARA again felt guilty that she had brought a less than perfect babe into the world and was causing still another person such obvious concern. She smiled encouragement.

"I've seen the baby," his eyes were steady. She waited. "The big question is whether her body is capable of functioning and only time will answer that." The smile left her face. She had counted on him to reassure her. "Are you going to nurse her?" His question plopped in the awkward silence. She avoided his eyes.

"I don't know," she murmured miserably. "Why don't I know?" she asked herself desperately. She had nursed the others. There had been no question then. "But this one is different," she excused herself. "If I nurse her and she dies, then what?" The physical pain would be just another reminder of her loss. I couldn't stand it, she thought wildly. What if they decided the baby could not leave the hospital when she did, then what? So many problems, was there no end? She pressed her hands to her throbbing temples. Was there no way out of this trap? "I don't know!" she repeated defiantly into the strained silence.

"You have plenty of time to decide," the pediatrician assured her mildly.

"I've arranged with the nursery to show you your baby when-

279
