[Vol51 | August | Magazine Page 628 | PDF Page 655]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 628 (PDF page 655) ---
AUGUST 1964

pointing toward them. Even in times of stress, it is usually best to depend upon our own good health and good health habits to carry us through. We should use medication only on the advice of a physician and withdraw from its use at the earliest possible time. Whenever our bodies become fatigued and weary, we should give them rest rather than stimulants.

We as Latter-day Saints, should respect our bodies — giving them proper food at proper intervals, getting sufficient rest and sleep, exercising and getting fresh air, and visiting the doctor and dentist at regular intervals for check-ups.

LITERATURE    The Individual and Human Values
                As Seen Through Literature

Elder Robert K. Thomas

Lesson 2 — Literature "Tasted . . . Swallowed . . . Digested"

For Third Meeting, November 1964

Objective: To experience the variety and depth of literary insight.

NEED FOR VARIETY, DEPTH AND EXCELLENCE IN LITERATURE

From experience we have learned that as various foods come in contact with the taste buds on the tongue we are able to detect the bitter from the sweet, those that are pleasing to the taste, and those that are distasteful, those that, when swallowed and digested, will produce nourishment and strength to our bodies versus those that will make us ill. We have learned, too, that because of the many integral parts of the body we need a wide range of variety in foods to meet our various needs for nourishment.

In a like manner, as we subject ourselves to variety in literature, we develop specific tastes (likes and dislikes). From the thoughts that are kindled and stimulated in our minds as we swallow and digest that which we read, we develop the ability to appreciate that which is beautiful, appropriate, and educational from that which is sensual and demoralizing. As we need variety in our food to sustain and nourish our bodies, so also do we need variety in literature to feed, stimulate,

628
