[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 261 | PDF Page 274]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 261 (PDF page 274) ---
THE STORM

it had thrilled him to hold its tiny vibrant body in his fingers. But it had died and he had been heartbroken. Why he kept asking — why? His grandfather had tried to explain.

"Why? Only God knows. Maybe it was because we didn't know how to care for it. Maybe we fed it too much — maybe we handled it too often. Never mind, lad. It's for the best. Never regret the love you gave the wee mite. It was not wasted, boy, it was not wasted."

It was not wasted. The words warmed Miriam's heart. The peace that had come to her in the night was strengthened now by this wisdom. She saw it clearly now. Her love, even though it had ended in disappointment and heartbreak, and her unhappiness even, were not wasted emotions. For a time they had seemed like last night's storm, unpredictable and destructive, but she knew now they were, instead, a discipline and a preparation for better, more lasting relationships.

She felt as unmarked by bitterness as the snow before them. How foolish to think she could cut herself off from others — how foolish to want to hide. Beside her the young man was muttering, almost to himself, "I hadn't thought about that mouse for years." They walked slowly through the peaceful fields.

About noon the snowplow cleared the highway. It passed in a shower of snow and a wave from the driver's furry gauntlet. The bus driver warmed the motor, and the children skipped ahead. It was with reluctance that the older passengers said goodby to the cafe owner and his wife. At the last minute the young man remembered that he had forgotten his briefcase, and ran back for it. Miriam shared a seat with the young mother; the children swung their legs in the seats ahead. The young man put his briefcase sat across the aisle. They smiled companionably at one another as the bus moved onto the highway.

Enchanted Valley

Sylvia Probst Young

There is a valley where the spring will come,
A quiet place, between the snow-crowned hills,
Where winging birds may find a welcome home,
And wooded lanes will shelter daffodils.

There is a valley where small brooks will glide
Across warm pasture lands, through banks of cress;
And where a plowboy whistles to the sky,
And fresh-turned soil awaits the rain's caress.

There is a valley where the spring will come
Across the waiting fields when April's new,
A quiet valley bounded by God's hills,
And where my heart shall keep a rendezvous.

261
