[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 314 | PDF Page 327]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 98% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 314 (PDF page 327) ---
APRIL 1964

West German Mission Relief Society Officers Display Baby Quilts Made to
Introduce Quilting to German Sisters

Left to right: Elfriede Zühlsdorf, President, Frankfurt Branch Relief
Society; Elisabeth Uhlig, Counselor, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society; Louise
C. Heyman, district leader, Frankfurt District; Mella Uchtdorf, Secretary-
Treasurer, Frankfurt Branch Relief Society.

Sister Heyman reports: "Sister McIntire, wife of President Wayne F.
McIntire of the West German Mission, for a long time has had the desire
to introduce quilting to the German sisters. So, at our Mission Relief Society
Conference in May 1963, she made her desire known. A baby quilt, made of
different kinds of quilt blocks, was prepared, and instructions and measure-
ments were given to the sisters. A talk on the history of quilting and what
our pioneer women have done along that line, was presented, and the desire
of the General Board of Relief Society to have this art preserved among the
sisters was mentioned. It was also pointed out that much good has been
accomplished by the distribution of quilts in times of need.

"The idea was received very favorably by the sisters. The Frankfurt
sisters began their quilt-making projects with great enthusiasm, and they have
now finished their first baby quilt and have already started another one.
The quilts are made from materials purchased locally, including the batting."

Riverdale Stake (Utah), Riverdale Ward Wins Quilt for Highest Attendance at
Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention
September 28, 1963

Front row, left to right: Jean Porter, organist; Doris Woodbury, Counse-
lor; Perneica Fiet, Counselor; Ruth Ritter, President; stake officers: Myrl S.
Stewart, President; Della Greenwell, First Counselor; Nina Atwood, Secretary-
Treasurer; board members: Margie Peterson, Heem Henderson, Beth Tesch.

Second row, left to right: Ruth Burton; Elva Hawkley; Neta Farr;
Blanche Gibby; Donna Child; Ida Ritter; Mary Child; Pearl Child; Leah
Cook; Mabel Ellis; Tillie Adams.

Back row, left to right: Carol Nessen; Virginia Jackson; Jackie Keller-
strass; Bessie Boswell; Gladys Sorenson; Coralee Green; Jean Jensen; Elaine
Ewert; Berdean Crabtree; Myrtle Carlsen, Hazel Manning; Asenath Davis.

Sister Stewart reports: "This was such a unique and inspiring convention.
Humble, sincere talks were given to inspire and encourage the visiting teachers.
A special poem 'The Sacred Calling of the Visiting Teacher,' written by Lila
Lutz, was read by her, and a copy, typed on blue paper and decorated with
the Relief Society seal and gold ribbon, was presented to each visiting teacher
present. The singing of the stake Singing Mothers chorus was gorgeous and
beautiful. The film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. It was very spiritual,
and every teacher was thrilled, enthused, and inspired to be a better visiting
teacher.

"The Riverdale Stake Relief Society presidency and board members made
the exquisitely beautiful quilt of green and white border print, quilted in a very
pretty pattern. The Riverdale Ward had eighty-two per cent of their visiting
teachers in attendance at the convention, which was an exceptionally splendid
record. Our aim this year is to double our attendance at the monthly visiting
teacher meetings, which, in turn, will improve greatly the quality of our
teaching. We feel that every teacher went away from the convention with the
resolve to be a better teacher in every way. Dainty refreshments were served."

314
