[Vol51 | June | Magazine Page 402 | PDF Page 423]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 402 (PDF page 423) ---
From Near and Far

Let me congratulate on the beauty of the Magazine. The March number is a dream in color. I loved the article and pictures (on roses) by Mary L. Paul and Dorothy Roberts. Claire Noall's cover is outstanding. The article on painting with glass was very interesting and very colorful. Thanks, also, for the nice spots my poems have been given. I am thinking of having a series of full-page ones framed as keepsakes.
Eva Willes Wangsgaard
Ogden, Utah

I have continued to enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much and always eagerly wait for the next issue to come. I especially was very thrilled to see the lovely cover of the February issue of the scenery of Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. This is my birthplace, and this is where I first heard the gospel from my cousin during one of my summer vacations years ago.
Ethel T. Kurihara
President
Luzon District Relief Society
Southern Far East Mission

I especially appreciated Alice Bailey's poem "Curled in Seed" in the March issue of the Magazine. It was full of beauty, as was Tom Elliott's color transparency of the Matterhorn.
Leona Fetzer Wintch
Manti, Utah

As I read the article "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" in the March issue of the Magazine, by Margaret Russell, I was reminded of the closeness of my mother and sisters and am grateful for the sisterhood we have. Since I do not live close around my mother and sisters or sisters-in-law, I have more and more appreciated the sisterhood in Relief Society, and no matter where we have lived, Relief Society has brought this sisterhood to me. Our beloved Magazine shares this sisterhood with the dear members in many lands.
Ida Mae F. Dahl
Boise, Idaho

I hope we will have more of the speech articles by Myrtle E. Henderson (March 1964). They are what we all need.
Pearl H. Saunders
Ogden, Utah

I surely enjoyed the speech articles in the March Relief Society Magazine. I hope such articles will be continued.
Mrs. Verna Ross
Salt Lake City, Utah

The article on speech (by Myrtle E. Henderson) in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine is much appreciated, and I hope the subject will be continued in future issues.
Mrs. Opal Saunders
Vale, Oregon

I have just finished reading "Don't You Just Love Your Sisters!" by Margaret Russell in the March issue of the Magazine. As the mother of a family of five "little sisters," whose father is also a Wyoming schoolteacher, it was like reading a forecast of the future. The whole Magazine each month is a gem.
Kathleen Gregory
La Grange, Wyoming

I enjoy the Magazine very much. The lessons are wonderful. Living in the mission field, I think the Magazine means much more to us.
Sylvia J. Harris
Red Wing, Minnesota

I love and enjoy the Magazine! The messages and stories are so inspiring.
Bonnie S. Hansen
Munich, Germany

The Relief Society Magazine has meant many enjoyable hours of reading for my husband and myself. It has been helpful in many ways. The March issue is very beautiful, with its poems and pictures of flowers.
Mrs. Frank Goodwin
Wheeling, West Virginia

402
