[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 124 | PDF Page 129]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 124 (PDF page 129) ---
FEBRUARY 1964

could have lived until Statehood was achieved. He worked for that."

Dr. Hartford looked at Luana who was standing by them. His eyes narrowed, quizzically.

"I wish I could say you look as perky as your Tutu. But you seem a bit languid to me. I want to check you over right now."

ON the way home in the late afternoon, Tutu leaned against Luana's shoulder and slept as peacefully as a child. Luana did not awaken her until they turned into the plantation lane. She stopped the car a block from the house and parked it beneath a leafy banyan tree. The sun was coral and gold through its branches.

"Tutu," she said softly, as Tutu opened her eyes and sat up. "I have something to tell you — something almost too wonderful to talk about."

"I know, my darling," Tutu's voice was a hushed lullaby. "I saw the light in your eyes when you came from Dr. Hartford's private office. I saw the glory in your smile as though the wind had kissed you."

"A baby . . ." Luana whispered, "another baby to love and care for. What a heavenly blessing to have a baby when you are forty-three!"

"God's blessing," Tutu answered. "Now when Emma Lu is married and goes to the Mainland to make her home, and Philip leaves for New Zealand, we will have our new baby to plan for. I must live a long time now, Luana, to help you and Ben."

Luana's breath was a sigh of happiness.

"My darling Ben," she said, "what another baby will mean to him, joy beyond words!"

"The sun reddens," Tutu reminded her, "almost dinnertime."

Dreamily Luana started the car, and they rode home in quiet wonderment.

"I will change my dress and help you," Tutu said, as they hurried down the hallway toward their bedrooms.

Hearing voices in Emma Lu's room, they hesitated near the half-open doorway. Someone was sobbing. Margaret's voice came brokenly.

"Oh, Emma Lu, having Millie's baby today brought it all back — all the yearning for a baby of my own. I would give anything — anything — for a baby . . ."

Luana leaned against the door frame. She felt weak and sick all over. Tutu did not move or speak.

"I paint so much and so desperately," Margaret went on. "I give all my creative urge to my art, because I have nothing else. I know that is the reason our Heavenly Father has helped me to be successful. Oh, I realize that creating art or music or beautiful writing is God's gift to us, too, but motherhood is the greatest gift. Mothers are co-creators with God. Oh, Emma Lu, no one knows how I long for a baby of my own."

Luana looked at Tutu. Their eyes met and lingered with tears

124
