[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 838 | PDF Page 877]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 838 (PDF page 877) ---
"Little...Acts of Kindness and of Love"
Elsie C. Carroll

IN borrowing a line from Wordsworth for my title, I purposely omitted two words. He wrote "little, nameless, unremembered, acts of kindness and of love." Such acts as I am thinking of may be unremembered, and nameless to the persons who performed them, but they are long remembered, identified, and cherished by the recipient.

My life has been made richer and happier by innumerable such acts. Only today I answered my doorbell to find a pretty little girl with a box of fresh picked raspberries a neighbor had sent — berries from the few bushes in her back yard which her family could well have relished. This family knows the joy of sharing delicacies with others.

On last Valentine's day the children of a family who had moved into their new home across the street from me a short time before, and with whom I had not really become acquainted, brought me a beautiful valentine lunch — including heart-shaped sandwiches, cookies, and salad, and with one little valentine on which they (or their remarkable mother) had written: "When you need someone to do errands, call us." This was followed by their names and telephone number. That was the first of many such acts that give the true meaning to the word neighborliness.

One time when I was returning to Utah from a stay in the East with my two small children, my little daughter became sick. She needed my full attention. Her three-year-old brother wanted to run up and down the aisle and to annoy the passengers generally. I was beside myself with anxiety and embarrassment. This had not been going on long when a pretty woman came to my very apparent need. She captured my son and took him to her own seat in the other end of the car. During a long afternoon and evening she entertained him, relieving me of an embarrassing situation and keeping him happy. When we reached my destination she helped me off the train into the hands of waiting relatives. A life-long regret is that in thanking her for such a wonderful kindness, I did not learn her name or address. But I shall never forget her. She remains in my memory as a lovely angel. Hers was not a little act of kindness; it was too big to be measured.

Another act of similar dimension came as a blessing years later. I was returning to my home after my daughter's marriage, and her departure for her honeymoon. My son was away. Neither one would ever be at home again, except for visits. I had adjusted as well as a woman can to years of widowhood, but now a new adjustment faced me.

It was dusk when I drove into my garage. The house was dark, and lonely. It could never be a real home again, it seemed to me at that desolate moment. It took me some time to find courage to walk to the house. I contemplated going to the home of a relative or friend — at least for this one night. But I realized it had to be hard the next night, or the next. It was a new life I was facing, and it was up to me how I faced it.

Finally, I unlocked the door and went inside. I turned on a light and started toward my bedroom where I intended to throw myself on my bed and release the pent-up tears that were choking me. I felt that I could weep forever.

My doorbell rang. Reluctantly I answered it. There stood my friend Nellie. Before I could speak she said: "Here I am with my nightgown. I knew how hard this first night with Helen and Charlie both gone would be. Tomorrow will be a new day, and the sun will be shining. But I didn't want you to be alone tonight."

A little act of kindness and of love. No! It was a big act, and it helped more than Nellie could know. She may have forgotten it. But her act, with so many others that have blessed and brightened my life, will never be unremembered by me.

838
