[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 331 | PDF Page 348]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 331 (PDF page 348) ---
Your Poem and You

Eva Willes Wangsgaard

Author of Singing Hearts, After the Blossoming, Down This Road, Shape of Earth.

MOST of what I have to say of poetry will incline toward the traditional, by which I mean that great part of our poetic literature from "Beowulf" to Robert Frost, "Death of the Hired Man," in which the reader identified himself or herself with the characters, understood the ideals by which they lived and for which they died, and, knowing them, cast a light on the reader's own problems and purposes. From generation to generation through centuries, these poems have shed their influence on the growth of civilization as we know it.

No one has so far created a satisfactory answer to the question: What is a poem? We can only open little doors. Poems resemble apples. They are of infinite variety, from the pretty but pulpless rose pip to the luscious Golden Delicious. A poem must be attractive in form to entice the reader, have meat you can sink your mental teeth into, a flavor that delights, excites, and satisfies, a core of wisdom, and seeds to project into other hearts and, perhaps, into the future. And, like the tree, a poem must have a reservoir of food from which to draw its sustenance. Now, how do you fill this reservoir?

You Learn Fundamentals

FIRST — A beginning poet needs a good rhyming dictionary, for, whether or not she ever intends to write rhyming verse, she should know what she is using or rejecting and give her poetry a chance to shape its own form before it is born. Besides, a rhyming dictionary, at least the one you will buy or own, begins with a chapter which explains and illustrates feet, meter, verse, variations, and stanza forms, and does it interestingly and enjoyably. You will as you study that you have already picked up subconsciously, through reading, many of the patterns and devices explained here. For instance, everyone, poet or layman, is aware of meter and rhyme to some degree. But the other phases of the subject, you can study and learn and store in the reservoir of your subconscious so they will be as automatic as your grammar and English usage.

SECOND — Increase your vocabulary. A good Thesaurus helps here. It groups words and phrases on specific subjects and presents them alphabetically, words that convey kindness, for instance, classifying them as to nouns, verbs, adjectives, and ad-

331
