[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 278 | PDF Page 291]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 278 (PDF page 291) ---
APRIL 1964

her shoulders and pulled her close.

"There's something wrong with our baby," Clara sobbed brokenly, then quickly closed her eyes to shut out the sight of his face gone suddenly white; the sick look of fear that tightened the corners of his mouth. He held her close, wordlessly, for a moment.

"Well, honey," Hal pushed the damp curls back from her face with gentle fingers, "we wondered if sooner or later something would be wrong with one of them, didn't we?"

She nodded jerkily, swallowing hard. They had discussed it.

"But not this one," she pleaded desperately, "please, not this one." They clung together silently until the misery that had filled the room gently subsided.

"Have you seen the pediatrician yet?"

"No."

"Let's wait and see what he says." He bent to kiss her cheek. "Now, don't feel so badly . . . it's nothing we could have helped." He answered her unspoken question. "Things will work out, you'll see." He laid her against the pillows and straightened up, holding her hand so tightly the wide gold wedding band cut into her fingers. "I'll be right back. I'm going down to see her." He was back in five minutes.

SHE'S cute, isn't she?" Clara smiled through her tears. At least some things weren't so different. "She'll be all right," Hal predicted and she tried to absorb some of his confidence. "She's big and strong, and even if it

means an operation she'll be able to stand it." She cringed, miserable at the thought of an operation on such a small body. After a prolonged silence her husband began to speak hesitantly. Struggling to eradicate the thought of an operation, she followed his words carefully, praying for distraction.

"I met Grant Fuller down the hall," he spoke slowly, thoughtfully. "Irene's here. They had their baby today, too." He hesitated, undecided, then continued, "It died a half hour ago."

She lay there stunned. Becoming aware that her teeth were so tightly clenched they ached, she relaxed with effort.

"She was born under the covenant, so they, at least, know they'll have her in the hereafter," he concluded.

Suddenly her arms felt so empty they ached. The hereafter's too far away, she thought in a panic. My baby's just down the hall and I want her now. But how long would she be there? At least Grant and Irene knew. Ahead of her was what? A crippled child? Would she require so much attention that the rest of the family would suffer neglect? She suddenly realized what a pathetically weak person she was. What was ahead for them? She couldn't face any of it.

"At least we can hope," Hal answered her unspoken question. But what was hope? It could be a deceiving liar, luring her toward happiness, then abruptly plunge her to the very depths of despair. She shook her head in silent rebellion. NO! She'd not be lured into that trap. "You know these things happen to

278
