[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 153 | PDF Page 158]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 153 (PDF page 158) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

climaxed in the organization of the Church.

These events included instruction and training by heavenly messengers, the key events happening in May and June of 1829, when power and authority to act officially for God upon the earth were conferred upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery by John the Baptist and apostles Peter, James, and John, the men Christ had chosen in the meridian of time to head his Church following the crucifixion. Shortly after the restoration of the Priesthood, the translation of The Book of Mormon was completed. It became a new witness for God testifying of the mission of Jesus Christ.

With the Holy Priesthood as his authority to act and the witness to the world of the fulness of the gospel contained in The Book of Mormon, the Prophet Joseph brought the first phase of his work to a focal point with the organization of the Church.

Church Government Is the Priesthood in Action

It is most significant to note how little attention was given to the structure of Church government until the Priesthood was conferred upon Joseph and Oliver.

We believe that a man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof (Fifth Article of Faith).

After the Priesthood was given to them, Joseph and Oliver explained the principles of the gospel, baptized those who received a testimony, and then set up the official organization

and government of the Church (see Section 20 of the Doctrine and Covenants) patterned after the structure of the Church Jesus had established while he was upon the earth.

The Enlightenment of the Holy Ghost

The Prophet Joseph informs us that immediately following their baptism, the Holy Ghost fell upon them and they prophesied of important things to come. Joseph says:

Our minds being now enlightened, we began to have the scriptures laid open to our understandings, and the true meaning and intention of their more mysterious passages revealed unto us in a manner which we never could attain to previously, nor ever before had thought of . . . (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:74).

After receiving the authority of the Priesthood and the enlightenment of mind from the Holy Ghost, the Church was organized. Through the process of inquiry and revelation, the Prophet received the detail of the structure and government of the Church, not all at once, but step by step until an organization unequaled by the efforts of man, has been perfected.

The Sacredness of Priesthood Callings

In our course of study we are concerned with the fact that the Priesthood was restored and is the basis upon which Church government and organization are built. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was not founded upon protests against the alleged mistakes of any existing Churches. It was founded

153
