[Vol51 | February | Magazine Page 107 | PDF Page 112]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 85% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 107 (PDF page 112) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

MRS. Sarah Tilghman Hughes — since 1935 Judge of the Fourteenth District Court of Dallas — swore in Lyndon Baines Johnson as President of the United States, on the plane returning the body of President Kennedy to Washington. Mrs. Johnson and Mrs. Kennedy stood near the new President. Judge Hughes was the first woman to become a district judge in Texas. She served three terms in the lower house of the Texas legislature, and once was unanimously voted by the newsmen covering the legislature the most valuable member of the body. In 1952 she was endorsed for the United States vice-presidential nomination by the National Federation of Business and Professional Women.

AGNES de Mille, a great American choreographer, is the author of The Dance (Golden Press), which traces the development of dancing in its many forms — theatrical, social, ritualistic. Illustrated with 400 pictures, the book presents a discussion of the work of such famous dancers as Isadora Duncan, Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, Carlotta Grisi, and Margot Fonteyn.

CLAUDIA Taylor (Lady Bird) Johnson, the new First Lady of the United States, has been an unusually capable helpmate to her husband in his political, social, and personal life. Nevertheless, she has retained a strong individuality of her own. An honor student in journalism at the University of Texas, she has continued to be an omnivorous reader, an intelligent observer of the world around her, and a woman of empathy for human beings. She learned Spanish as a communicating link with other peoples. She excels as a homemaker and hostess, and her business acumen has stretched an inheritance into a comfortable fortune, principally by way of radio and television enterprises. The Johnsons have two daughters, Lynda Bird, nineteen, and Lucy Baines, sixteen.

DR. Elizabeth J. Bottcher is assistant chief of pathology at the Salt Lake City, Utah, Veterans Administration Hospital. One of the best known pathologists in the United States, she was formerly associated with the Rochester Hospital in New York.

107
