[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 166 | PDF Page 175]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 166 (PDF page 175) ---
MARCH 1964

Among the crimes they most frequently commit are (1) those of passion, principally aggravated assault, sex perversion, immorality, and "forcible rape," and (2) those which violate the command, "Thou shalt not steal," such as auto theft, burglary, grand larceny, and robbery.

It ought to be sobering to Latter-day Saints to contemplate and realize how completely every one of these misdeeds would be eliminated by practicing the things which the Lord has specifically directed us to teach our children.

Obedience, for example. "Your family must needs . . . give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place," said the Lord to the Prophet Joseph (D&C 93:48). And what were the Prophet's sayings concerning lawlessness such as is rampant among us? One of the things he said was: "We believe in . . . obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law" (Twelfth Article of Faith).

Proper teaching of and training in this one fundamental principle of obedience to the laws of the land would effectively eliminate vandalism and crime.

ANOTHER thing the Lord has directed us to train our children to do, which, neglected as it is, contributes to our present vexations, is to work.

"An idle brain," so the saying goes, "is the devil's workshop." This is no doubt true because the scriptures associate idleness with things most despicable. Describing the remnant of his people, as in vision he saw them, "after they had dwindled in unbelief," Nephi said, "They became a dark, and loathsome, and a filthy people, full of idleness and all manner of abominations" (1 Nephi 12:23).

The Lord, condemning idleness in this dispensation, associates it with juvenile delinquency and wickedness, specifically with greediness. "The idler," he says, "shall be had in remembrance before the Lord," adding, "I . . . am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children also are growing up in wickedness; they seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness" (D&C 68:30-31).

In addition to obedience and work, I want to mention another one of the many things the Lord has specifically commanded us to teach our children — namely, to pray.

Speaking of the inhabitants of Zion, he said, "They shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord" (D&C 68:28). He adds: "And a commandment I give unto them — that he that observeth not his prayers before the Lord in the season thereof, let him be had in remembrance before the judge of my people" (D&C 68:33).

"Pray always," said the Lord to the Prophet, "that you may come off conqueror; yea, that

166
