[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 255 | PDF Page 268]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 255 (PDF page 268) ---
THE WORTH OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

And she was really excited about the work meeting suggestions. Surely, the Church that published such an uplifting and well-rounded Magazine must be inspired. She began coming to Relief Society, and her discussions with the missionaries were merely perfunctory; she had already been converted by the Magazine.

As a means of binding one to the Church, fellowshipping a new convert, or even bringing one back into activity, The Relief Society Magazine stands alone. For instance: a new member went to Relief Society for the first time and subscribed to the Magazine. The woman giving the lesson evidently was unprepared, and our new member was very disinterested to the point that she thought she would not go again. Shortly, the Magazine began arriving in her home. She read it from cover to cover. When she came to the lesson material that the unprepared sister had poorly given, she read it and thought, why this is beautiful. I guess I didn't understand it. She decided she must be a part of the discussion of the lessons which she was enjoying reading. The Magazine had aroused her interest, rejuvenated her spirit, and rekindled her desire to be a part of the kingdom.

Yes, The Relief Society Magazine is a great power, an influence, and a factor of worth in our fight with Satan. I have been reading it for thirty-five years. When on my first mission to Switzerland, as a young boy, I was given the assignment of working with the Relief Society. In our thirty years of marriage, I have read with Sister Woodbury her lessons, as she has prepared to teach, first the literature lessons, then the theology lessons, and, currently, the social science lessons. I think the Magazine is better today than it has ever been—in content, in uplift, and, surely, in make-up. I think the covers of recent months have been frame-worthy—each of them. The new headings in color are exciting, and the practical articles such as "Stretching the Food Budget" present worthwhile ideas for this day of devalued dollars.

Now, I would like to issue a challenge to all of you sisters who represent the leadership of Magazine sales in your stakes, missions, and districts. The Savior held out perfection to us, which, to me, means 100%. There should not be a single Relief Society in this Church which is not getting 100%. That is assumed! That is perfection! But more than that, the Savior said that those who should ask you to go one mile, "go with him twain." In other words, go the extra mile! If you are asked to go one, go two! I would like to challenge every Relief Society to get 200% as a minimum goal for 1964. If every member is a missionary and every member is to bring in another member, I can't think of a finer way to begin this accomplishment than by giving a subscription to your fine neighbor friend who is a non-Mormon, or getting her to subscribe to this spiritual, uplifting Magazine. Let us all go the extra mile and get that extra mile smile in 1964 with 200%.

255
