[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 68 | PDF Page 69]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 68 (PDF page 69) ---
JANUARY 1964

for his professional future. Here, as at Oberlin, he attended practically no social functions, often walked alone in the fields, and during the summers traveled by cattle boat to Liverpool and Panama. With a school chum he spent a month as janitor at Helicon Hall, an experiment in communal living dominated by the socialist reformer and novelist, Upton Sinclair. With no funds from his father until he returned to school, he made a meager living doing hack work for various magazines, then returned to Yale, from which he was graduated in 1907. He toyed with the possibilities of studying law and medicine, but, instead followed the pattern of his greatest college interest and decided to become a writer.

Sorely disappointed in Harry's evident irresponsibility, Dr. Lewis gave him no financial or moral support. Completely on his own, Harry wrote magazine articles and corrected copy in newspaper offices, finally settling in New York City where, in 1914, he married Grace Hegger, a talented and beautiful young girl who was supporting herself by working on the staff of Vogue magazine. In 1917, his first son, Wells Lewis, was born. Before his first great success in 1920, when Main Street was published, he wrote four novels which were mildly praised.

After the phenomenal sales of Main Street guaranteed both his fame and his fortune, Lewis began the great decade of his life, sustained by the wide acceptance of his best novels, Babbitt (1922), Arrowsmith (1925), Elmer Gantry (1927), and Dodsworth (1929). Although Main Street has been translated into nearly every European language, it is usually considered that Babbitt and Arrowsmith constitute Lewis' best work. Exemplifying his nonconformity, he declined the Pulitzer Prize (for Babbitt) in 1925. It was through the character of Babbitt, an American businessman, that Lewis truly pictured himself. However, in 1930, when he was the first American to be offered the Nobel Prize (for Arrowsmith), he accepted. Though before his lonely death in Rome in 1952 at the age of sixtyseven he was to write over twenty novels, innumerable short stories and essays, his best work was done by 1930, impossible though it was for him ever to admit it.

Homeless Harry
After Main Street made Sinclair Lewis a Great Personage his success was undeniably proved to his family and home town by terms they could understand — money. Throughout the remainder of his life Lewis returned often, but never could he stay long, neither there nor any place. Having achieved success, he continued to pursue success even more relentlessly; all he ever gained from his endless self-driving were fame and money. He was a bundle of restless, nervous energy which never exhausted itself. An "amusing, ardent person, condemned to perpetual vitality," he spent his life searching for the romantic ideals of peace, goodness, and beauty which he had first loved in his lonely childhood; not finding them in the world about him, he attacked human weakness wherever he found it, both in himself and in others,

68
