[Vol51 | December | Magazine Page 951 | PDF Page 994]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 951 (PDF page 994) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Rock" whom does Fitzsimmons dislike even more than he dislikes his wife, and why?

4. In every day life are we confronted with situations when we must choose between principle and convenience? Mention some similar situations.

5. In "Quality," what qualities do we most admire in the old bootmaker?

SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government
The Functioning of Church Government

Elder Ariel S. Ballif

Lesson 19 — The Value of Church Activity

For Fourth Meeting, March 1965

Objective: To show that activity in the Church is essential to the fulness of life.

Human beings are expected by their Creator to be actively employed in doing good every day of their lives, either in improving their own mental and physical condition or that of their neighbours (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 9:190).

BASIC PHILOSOPHY

Religious activity does not begin and end in the confines of a Church structure. Church activity is found in the persistent application of the teachings of Jesus Christ in the every human endeavor.

Jesus was always "about his Father's business" which was bringing all men back to the presence of the Creator. His was a life of continual service to the children of men. He chose men from service in all walks of life to assist him and, through his organization, he extended the opportunity of service to as many as accepted his teachings.

From a formal organizational point of view, the Lord has provided unlimited opportunities for Church members to serve. Some of the assignments are small, but all are important to the successful functioning of the total program.

The Savior did not confine his activity to the formal structure of the Church organization. Whenever and wherever the opportunity presented itself to relieve suffering, make people happy, and justify their faith, Christ willingly offered his services. He set the example which brings to mind the

951
