[Vol51 | November | Magazine Page 875 | PDF Page 914]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 875 (PDF page 914) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

the divine will expressed in earth as in the heavens must call Church government. The basic forth the divine characteristics of function of Church government is man in overcoming selfishness "to bring to pass the immortality greed, and hate, and in controll-and eternal life of man" (Moses ing the appetites, disciplining the 1:39). mind, and in stirring man with a 
There are many areas of hu- never-ending thirst for and quest man relations that need the at- of knowledge.
tention of the organized effort of 
men holding the Priesthood of THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION
God. They include: the develop- 1. Does divine law refer only to ment of a constructive youth pro- spiritual things?
gram that will help avoid the 2. Are social problems the respon-problems of delinquency; the de- sibility of the Church organization?
velopment of an environment that 3. Does the responsibility of the will reduce the hazards of mental quorum for the welfare of its members health; the expression of a great- include the problems of community er interest in the fatherless and life?
the widow; a dynamic program in 4. What is the test of true virtue?
preparation for and in the care 5. Is observance of the law a part of old age; and many others. of the gospel of Christ?
The well-balanced life can come 
out of the successful functioning 
of the Priesthood through Doctrine and Covenants, Sections quorum organizations and oper- 29; 58.
ation. Christ's government on Widtsoe, John A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapter 5.
Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, page 429.

Our Garden Gate
Rowena Jensen Bills

For generations our garden gate
Swung us in and out,
Heard our whispered secrets,
The happy friendly shout
Of greetings to our neighbors, friends,
Heard the magic sighs
That springtime brings and love fulfills,
Heard the hushed goodbyes.
Rains have rusted its hinges, winds
Have pressed its weariest strength;
Hot suns have dried its wood to gray,
Until now, at length,
We who swing it to and fro
Handle it with care,
With loving tenderness, because
Of memories we share.

875
