[Vol51 | April | Magazine Page 264 | PDF Page 277]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 264 (PDF page 277) ---
APRIL 1964

to which they had moved only a short time before Susan's illness, she gathered the last twenty-five years together in her thoughts, all of them busy, vital, active. She had taken so much more in her stride besides marriage and family. The many varied Church interests, her garden, the flower arrangement classes that had grown into a local society, the old people who had come to rely on her visits in times of bad weather — the list was endless. And now. . . .

She watched the fields, green with summer, and tall trees that curtseyed in the warm breeze against the blue softness of the sky, but her mind was shut against the beauty of the tender afternoon. Lulled by the heat, she dozed, drooping a little against her husband's shoulder, her dark hair spraying into curves across her damp brow.

THE sound of a familiar bark startled her, and she opened her eyes to see Wilkie leaping down the path, in an ecstatic flurry of doggy welcome. She was home! The rose-red brick house was sun-mellowed, its windows sparkling. Cathy, looking fresh and pretty, in a white linen frock, was standing at the gate, with one-year-old Peter in her arms. "Lovely to have you back, Mum," she called. Tom hopped, as Douglas helped his wife carefully from the car.

Susan's face lighted up as she encircled her daughter's slim waist, and stroked Wilkie's madly bobbing head. She savored the warm velvet of her grandson's tiny head against her cheek for a long moment before stepping

into the coolness of the hall. It smelled of polish and was brilliant with flowers. In the big living room the table was laid with her best china, bowls of fruit and jellies colorful against her gossamer lace cloth. In the place of honor stood a large iced cake, with "Welcome Home" written on it.

"Everyone's been so good," Cathy told her. "Mrs. Elliott brought the cake this morning. From the Relief Society, with love, she said. And those flowers in the hall were sent, already fixed in the containers, from the Arrangement Society."

That really was thoughtful. What a lot of work went into those kindnesses. The ready tears threatened again, as Susan leaned back in the comfortable chair, trying to overcome them.

"Your father says that you have managed splendidly, Cathy," she said, at last.

"Of course, Mum. I brought Peter with me, and Mrs. James kept an eye on him, while I did the shopping and cooking. I was always home in time to collect the twins from school and fix Tom's meal. He sends his love — coming over tomorrow."

SUSAN felt as though the relationship between them had been reversed. She had always felt that Cathy needed help, with an old-fashioned house, a lively baby, and twins only just five. But the young woman who spoke so confidently, had a brisk capable air that disconcerted her.

"I don't know what we should have done without you," Susan admitted. Cathy's answering smile was a serene acceptance of

264
