[Vol51 | March | Magazine Page 178 | PDF Page 187]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 178 (PDF page 187) ---
MARCH 1964

dancing about the living room, practicing her new dance steps. The baby was tired and hungry, and even Brent's usual toothless smile was turned upside down. Someone had accidently broken one of his model airplanes that afternoon.

"Mother is a wonderful cook, Madge, she can help me think up a good recipe. We want something special, Mother, for the dessert for our dinner," Helen said.

When things had quieted a bit, and the family came to dinner, Martha planned to talk a bit, if she could hold the floor for a change. She began before anyone else had time to get a start on her.

"It was quite a ball game today that Johnny's team played against the Bears." Martha raised her voice a bit louder than usual to be sure to get attention.

"You don't mean that you went, Grandma?" Mark asked in surprise.

"Certainly, I went, and you should have seen Johnny pitch that game. Why he threw outcurves and in-curves and drop balls and really kept the batter guessing. He made two runs, too. It was two, wasn't it, Johnny, or was it three?" Martha talked on rapidly, not allowing time for interpolations from anyone on any other subject. Even Johnny sat wide-eyed and smiling as she extolled him. For a moment he was almost believing all she was saying about him. As she stopped talking for a moment, he lowered his eyes modestly, but Martha

saw the sweet smile that clung to his lips.

"Must have been some playing Johnny did today," Mark conceded. "I surely take my hat off to a fellow like Dan Hartley who will take the trouble to coach a bunch of kids."

"Dan is sure a swell guy," Johnny spoke up then.

MARTHA felt triumphant in the fact that Johnny's game had taken up ten minutes of the dinnertime conversation, so, when Mark quite naturally remembered that he had been playing that afternoon, too, and needed some attention, Martha relinquished her time to him. Mark went into another vivid play-byplay account of his two rounds of golf, not missing any of the details of his great tee-offs.

Mark is just a little boy, men are that way, I guess, but can't they see that Johnny is a little boy, too? He is their little boy, Martha said to herself as they left the table.

"Tonight is our last game of this season," Johnny announced that last week of Martha's visit. "We play the Tigers, and they are the best team of all."

Martha felt a tugging inside her chest of — maybe it was loneliness at the thought of returning home—home where there would be only quiet and no worrying about Johnny and his problems. And she was really going to miss hearing the talk of ball and dinner parties and even of Mark's golf. She was glad, too, that she

178
