[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 339 | PDF Page 356]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 339 (PDF page 356) ---
[ILLUSTRATION: Artist's palette with paintbrushes and paint spots]

art
as a Hobby

Myrtle E. Henderson, M.A.
Former Head, Speech
Department, Dixie College

Do you have time on your hands? Are you feeling discouraged by the monotony of doing the same routine things every day? Are you a young homemaker with energy to spare? Have you been retired from your job or position, and do you feel that your life is ended, and any creative ability you ever had is dying within you? Have your children grown up and established homes of their own? If your answer is yes to any one of these questions, then you need a challenging, exciting hobby that will last a lifetime. May I suggest that the study of art appreciation and painting may be one answer to your problem. Now don't say no until you have thought about the possibilities.

A Good Beginning

Let's begin simply by seeing the beauty around us — perhaps as an artist would see it. Look at the changing patterns of the clouds, the soft tints or flaming glow of a sunset or being; feel the softening rays of the moon; behold the majesty of snow-covered mountains; see the long shadows and hear the whispering leaves in the depths of the woods; become aware of the motion of a field of golden grain as the wind sweeps over it in waves.

If we see things in this way, we are using as many of our five senses as possible, and, like the artist, we will see more beauty than we had dreamed there was around us.

The Art of Appreciation

Another helpful and enlightening step in our adventure into art is to learn to understand and appreciate paintings. Find out what has gone into them, what are their values, and what makes them good or poor. Let's see what an artist has said about pictures. One critic suggests that pictures make their appeal to individuals through their beauty of line, the quality of their color, or through the interest in their patterns. We can learn to appreciate line, color, and pattern for their own sake, and then a picture does not need to tell a story. Art appeals to the sight as well as to the imagination. Paintings may be an interpretation rather than a photographic representation of the subject. Leave the exact details to the camera.

Design in Paintings

My art teacher said often that pictures should not be "too busy," meaning there should not be too many points of interest or

339
