[Vol51 | May | Magazine Page 341 | PDF Page 358]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 341 (PDF page 358) ---
ART AS A HOBBY

take up her spare time. At the suggestion of her neighbor, who was a good amateur artist, she tried painting. She had no training in art, but now, after five years, she does some beautiful work, and is hoping to make a business of it. People bring her colored snapshots of scenes they have photographed on their vacations, or pictures from other sources, and she reproduces them in oils. She takes orders for paintings in certain shades and colors to blend into the colors of the room for which they are intended. One of the greatest joys this woman has, since her mother has passed away, is to take her paints and go out into the hills and paint from nature.

You say you are too old to learn to paint? Haven't you heard of Grandma Moses, who began to paint when she was nearly eighty? Grandma Moses started working pictures in worsted. After she was afflicted with arthritis in her hands, it was difficult for her to hold the needle. Her sister suggested that she try painting, since it might be easier to hold the brushes. So she began to paint. She thought painting was a very pleasant hobby, if one did not have to hurry. In her autobiography, she tells how she began to paint a picture. She secured the frame, then sawed masonite board to fit the frame.

Then she went over the board with linseed oil, and then with three coats of flat paint. She used masonite because it would last longer than canvas.

Materials

How to get materials may be a problem to you. Let me suggest what there are many excellent water color sets that are inexpensive. A box of eight colors and one brush can be purchased for one dollar, or a box of sixteen colors and one brush, for two dollars. The same colors come in tubes in boxes containing different numbers of tubes and two brushes. These are very good colors, but are a little more expensive. Drawing pads will need to be purchased with the paints. Oil paints can be purchased in tubes separately or in complete kits. With the oil painting one will need oil cups, spatula, palette, and, at least three different sizes of brushes. The canvas may be obtained in a roll or on boards.

We may never paint masterpieces, but we can enter the marvelous creative world of form and rhythm, pattern, and texture and color. We can reach out and select and use and retain, against time, the evanescent beauty in the landscape of our days. We can enlarge our vision and our appreciation of the magnificent universe.

Today is here. It is new, it is NOW. Forget yesterday, which is gone. Use Today as best you can. You are sure of it, and nothing more. Begin here and now.
—Zara Sabin

341
