[Vol51 | September | Magazine Page 711 | PDF Page 742]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 711 (PDF page 742) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

appearance. It is important for each family member to learn to go without occasionally, enabling all to share the family resources.

Homemakers should plan wardrobes for around the house just as they do for their social lives. Comfortable and well-fitting shoes for working about the house can give a woman bounce and energy. Clothes that are simple and loose-fitting not only are easier to wash and iron, but also give the body freedom for stretching or kneeling.

A wardrobe should include appropriate clothing for going out casually in public—shopping, to the library, and on errands.

It is important to our feeling of well-being and happiness (and to that of our families) to be conscious of our appearance. We should always look acceptable before leaving home. This would apply to dressing appropriately for Relief Society meeting and other Relief Society activities and Church functions.

The Church has set standards of dress to which mothers and daughters should adhere. Counsel was given to Relief Society relative to standards of dress by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen in the General Relief Society Conference October 1962.

President Smith advised: "And I think the Latter-day Saints should not follow the fashions and the immodesty of the world. We are the people of the Lord. He expects us to live clean, virtuous lives, to keep our thoughts clean and minds pure and faithful in the observance of all his other commandments. Why should we follow the world, why can we not be modest, why can't we do the things the Lord would have us do?"

Elder Petersen declared, "Mothers in Israel, as long as we turn away from modesty in dress and follow the way of the world in style, just that long will we pay the price in a breakdown of morals among the younger generation."

By being particular both in standards and neatness of dress, we can set an example that might change the habits of the neighborhood, which in turn could strengthen the attitude of the community, which could build the stature of a nation, which could magnify the world.

It is a loving mother or grandmother who makes a special effort to pretty herself up before the family comes. Though there may have been children underfoot all day, there should be a moment to freshen up, to appear neat and clean to greet homecoming family members. This makes for a pleasant remembrance for children to tuck away in their memory chests and attractive picture for a husband to come home to.

Let us keep up our appearance so the family can be proud of us. After all, most of us spend the greater part of our waking hours at home and this is where we ought to look our best. For it is here the most important people in the world—our families—will be seeing us!

711
