[Vol51 | January | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 6]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 6) ---
PURPOSE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY

FROM this humble start under the most difficult conditions, when the membership of the Church was small, we have seen this Society grow until it spreads over most of the civilized countries of the world. The good that has been accomplished in the care of the poor, care of the sick and the afflicted, and those who are in physical, mental, or spiritual need, will never correctly be known. This, however, need not be our concern. The main interest lies in the fact that all of this has been accomplished through the spirit of love in accordance with the true spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is clear to see that without this wonderful organization, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints never could have been completely organized.

We, the Brethren of the Church, honor and respect our good sisters for their unselfish devotion to this glorious cause. We stand to lend encouragement and in every way possible to lend assistance where assistance is required for the success of the Relief Societies of the Church. Our prayers ascend in your behalf. May the spirit of the Lord be with you always to buoy you up and give you strength and courage in this wonderful department of the Church, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord, Jesus Christ, Amen.

Give Me These
Elsie F. Parton

Give me a pen, the ardent pen of hope,
That I may write no word of doubting fear,
That weak men may be strengthened in their trust
And strong men stand convincing and sincere.
Oh, give to me the fallen crumbs of faith
That lie unheeded on the marbled floor,
That I may mold them into firmer shape
And give them power, greater than before.
Give me a pen, the ardent pen of hope,
That glowing words may rouse some weary mind
And light the flames of courage in some breast
When hopeless eyes have made the vision blind.
Oh, give to me the scattered crumbs of hope
That I may place them in a crystal bowl
And find in each, a gleaming ray of light
To brighten and enrich the downcast soul.
Give me a pen engraved with charity,
That I may write with eloquence my part
And give to men a symphony of love,
A joyful melody within the heart.
Give me a spacious world that I may plant
In fertile soil, the leaven of these three,
Where men may reap the fruitage of these vines—
Strong faith, firm hope, and boundless charity.

5
