Book Review AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE BOOK OF MORMON It would be a great disappointment and perhaps something of a reflection on the talent of the Church if the present year had not brought forth a book that would be illuminating and of vital assistance in the study of the Book of Mormon. However, the situation has been met in a most satisfactory manner by the publication of An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon by J. M. Sjodahl, one of the best known writers of the Church. First of all An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon makes convenient a good deal of material which heretofore has been scattered through a wide range of publications. As an example let us take the rather well known story of Oliver Cowdery meeting an opposing attorney in Michigan whom he answered by saying, "I know that I saw, and belief has nothing to do with it, for knowledge has swallowed up the belief I had in the work since I know it is true." Many people in the Church have that incident partly in mind but have no knowledge of where it occurred or the exact language used by Mr. Cowdery. Elder Sjodahl has done them a real service by locating this matter. This incident merely suggests much other material of perhaps greater importance and greater interest. On the other hand the author presents a large mass of new material. In confirmation of this statement we cite the chapters on Book of Mormon Names in American Geography, American Words from Old-World Languages, and the Name America an American Word. Perhaps of equal interest are the chapters, A Leaf From the History of Peru, The Shell Mounds and the Jaredites, etc., and a suggested key to Book of Mormon Geography. There is a type of mind that is intensely interested in traditions, myths and legends. To such people the chapter on Religious Concepts, Traditions, Myths and Legends will make special appeal. We wish to make special mention of the chapter on Book of Mormon Names in American Geography as Elder Sjodahl, who is a student of dead languages and particularly Hebrew and Greek, is especially well qualified to speak on this matter. Much has been said about ruins of cities and buildings testifying to the authenticity of the Book of Mormon, but such ruins are perhaps not as important as the survival of names. People may argue that ruins are the result of the activity of other peoples, but it is a pretty difficult thing to dispute the authenticity of the survival of groups of names. We feel sure that our readers will be interested in this subject and suggest as an example that they look up the material Elder Sjodahl has brought together on the name Moroni. We welcome the coming forth of this book at a time so opportune, when readers and students all over the church are reach- 
 ing out in eagerness for more knowledge concerning this sacred volume. CARE FOR EXPECTANT MOTHERS We have on the desk a book entitled Modern and Practical Prenatal and Maternal Care for Expectant Mothers, written by Dr. W. E. Hunter, Dept. Of Obstetrics and Gynecology, InterMountain Clinic, and Obstetrician to Groves L. D. S. Hospital. The book has been written for the expectant mother, and assumes to give her practical information in relation to her care from the beginning of life to the moment of actual birth. It states that "the trend of modern obstetrics is to make child bearing more comfortable and less hazardous, to preserve life rather than restore it." Dr. R. Knight Smith says in his introduction, "the reduction of the mortality attendant upon child bearing has been notoriously slow compared to that attained in many other fields, and any means by which this may be hastened must have the endorsement of all thinking people." In a later chapter we are told "that about 20,000 women die annually from childbirth, or, as a consequence of child-bearing, in the United States, and that this constitutes but a small proportion of the true seriousness of child-bearing, as most women suffer more or less from small injuries of which they never complain, and other women are operated on daily for old injuries." "In the United States 200,000 babies die annually at birth or during the first months following, and even this is not the total death rate." Under such circumstances it must be apparent to all thinking persons that one of the most important things for a mother to know, from the beginning, is that she is having proper care both for herself and for the child. Two lives are in the balance and no chance should be taken in the matter either of preserving life or preserving health, for both are of paramount importance. Some of the chapters contained in this book are: Parental Care, The Effect of Pregnancy on the Mother, Duration of Pregnancy, and Date of Confinement, Hygiene of Pregnancy, Preparation for Delivery, and Place of Confinement, the Relief of Suffering, Care of Mother and Baby, New Mother and Baby, Characteristics of a Healthy Baby. It will be seen from the chapters listed that the material concerned is of prime importance to mothers and infants. MY PHILOSOPHY OF LIFE My Philosophy of Life, a new book by Professor Alfred Osmond, deals with life material of a type that confronts each one of us every day that we live. The book contains eleven chapters as well as twenty-one of the best poems that Professor Osmond has written. Magazine readers will find the chapters on "The THE BOOK REVIEWS 37 Spiritual Life," "How to be Happy," "Tragedy and Life," and "Redemption" of particular interest. This season we had as one of the special topics in the conventions and conferences the Art of Living. Professor Osmond has a good deal to say about this subject which he calls "the fine art of living." In the chapter on "How to be Happy" he gives a hypothetical example of one who has made a fortune and has lost his job. He has attained what he was seeking and there is no more to do. To such a person he offers this advice: "If, however, the fortune-seeker fell in love with his work, he can now turn the affections of his heart and the skill of his pen to an unfolding aim. If he loves writing for its own sake, he can devote the rest of his life to the finest of all, the fine arts?except the art of living?the art of writing." Later on in the chapter entitled "Tragedy and Life" the author tells us that "there are many pessimistic philosophers who hold that life is a positive evil. But I contend that they are all mistaken. Life is a positive good, because it contains the possibilities of the wealth of the universe. Life is a positive good for many other reasons. To support this contention I call as my witnesses the healthful and gratuitous activity of all forms of animal life. The gladsome songs of birds; the merry laugh of children; the sweet, fond smile of motherhood; the proud and generous soul of fatherhood?all these proclaim with an eloquence divine that life is beautiful; life is sweet, life is upward and onward toward a higher goal and a brighter light. Men may come and may go, but the stream of life flows on forever. Death is temporary. Life is eternal. This, then, is the first great contribution that tragedy makes to life?it makes life possible." Again Professor Osmond tells us that "the natural penalty for intemperate devotion to sordid interests is narrow-mindedness and deadened sensibilities." In the chapter on "Redemption" the reader is reminded again as the author has chosen to remind him frequently that no matter who you are, where you may live, what you may do or what you may possess, the universe has decreed that you are not to have uninterrupted happiness. In the chapter on "Redemption" we are told, "You not only have to descend to the valley of the shadow but you have to wear a yoke and bear a burden. * * * The Master has said that his yoke is easy and his burden is light, and has admonished you to take it upon you. When he says his yoke is easy and his burden is light, he seems to mean that the spirit he gives you will make the yoke seem easy and the burden light." The spirit of the author, which is a spirit of high mindedness, genuine refinement and deep spirituality, permeates the volume. In this day of many questionable books it is refreshing to discover a book so sound at the core and so wholesome in all of its pronouncements.