Centenary of the Birth of Karl G. Maeser
On the 16th day of January, of this year, it will be 100 years since Karl G. Maeser saw the light of day in the far off city of Meissen, Germany. Much has been spoken and much has been written concerning positions of trust and importance occupied by men in the Church and Nation, who came under the inspiring and benign influence of Karl G. Maeser, as a teacher. But the credit is not all on the side of the men, for a goodly number of women, whose high privilege it was to claim him for principal and teacher, have been called to outstanding responsibilities in Church, State and national organizations of women.
The General Board of the Relief Society is no exception to the rule. In the years of its existence three of Karl G. Maeser's students, Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Mrs. Jennie B. Knight and Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, have been called to fill the position of counselor to the president. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who has served so long as general secretary of the organization was a student of Karl G. Maeser, also Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde. Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, who have each in turn served as editors of the Relief Society Magazine, were his
EDITORIAL 19
students, and also Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund and Mrs. Inez Knight Allen.
On the General Board of the Y. L. M. I. A. We find Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Mrs. May Booth Talmage, Mrs. Emma Goddard, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, who edited the Young Woman's Journal for a number of years, and the late Mrs. Helen W. Woodruff. All these women came under Brother Maeser's precious tutelage, and all have carried forth in their lives the inspiration received from the great master teacher.
Karl G. Maeser's students have also been found on the General Board of the Primary. Notable among these is Mrs. Zina Y. Card.
At the present time Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde is collector of customs at the port of Hawaii, having the distinction of being the first woman to receive such an appointment in the United States. Mrs. Lyman has served a term in the Utah state legislature where she championed the cause of the Shephard-Towner bill with unusual success. At present she is the recording secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States. She has been complimented several times by being asked to act on behalf of the president of the council, Dr. Valeria H. Parker. This was notably the case last summer when she was invited to go to Geneva.
Many of Dr. Maeser's students have served as delegates to national and international conventions, both in the United States and in Europe.
At the time of the demise of Karl G. Maeser, President Heber J. Grant, who was a speaker at the funeral services held in the Salt Lake tabernacle, said that if Karl G. Maeser had been the sole convert to the Church from the German nation his service to the Church had been worth all the effort and all the money spent by missionaries in that field. We feel sure that Dr. Maeser's students are in hearty accord with this sentiment of appreciation expressed by President Grant at the time of Karl G. Maeser's departure from this life. Many monuments have been erected to his memory, but the greatest of all monuments is the unbounded love and deep reverence that his hundreds of students have for him, which they cherish as a sacred heritage.