Amy Brown Lyman During the last few months my mind has dwelt upon some of the achievements of the last century, and I find that this last hundred years has contributed much to the progress of the world. It is no wonder that it has been called, and is known, as the wonderful century. My interest in this subject at this time is due to the fact that it is just one hundred years since the delivery of the plates containing the Book of Mormon to Joseph Smith, by the angel Moroni. In order to estimate the full importance of the last century, we must compare it, not with any preceding century, but with the whole period of the past, for it has contributed more to the progress of the world than all preceding time. It is true, of course, that there have been many failures; for example, the failure to eliminate war and establish permanent peace; the failure to eliminate poverty, crime and disease; but in spite of the failures there have been many outstanding accomplishments. Among the great achievements are: railways, steamships, automobiles and airships; electric telegraph, wireless telegraph, telephone, radio and phonograph; photography and moving pictures; friction CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 31 matches, gas illumination and electric lights; typewriting machines and sewing machines; anaesthetics, the use of which has made surgical operations painless; antiseptic surgery, which has made surgery safe; the germ theory of disease, which has made it possible to eliminate and control some of the most dreaded diseases; x-rays, which renders many opaque objects transparent; preventive health work, which has saved and prolonged life; prohibition. In the matter of human welfare work, also, there has been as much progress in the last hundred years as in all previous time. One hundred years ago, and less than one hundred years ago, dependents with any degree of working ability were hired out to the highest bidder; and the infirm and helpless and orphans were turned over for care to the lowest bidder. The county infirmaries, or poor houses as they were known, housed and cared for all classes of dependents and defectives. These were all huddled together: tramps, vagrants, drunkards, insane, feeble-minded, epileptics, blind, deaf, orphans, confinement cases and contagious diseases. In the jails were housed professional criminals, innocent people awaiting trial, boys and girls arrested for trivial offenses, and prostitutes. Great progress has been made in the last hundred years. The insane have been placed in institutions which have really become hospitals, where they receive special treatment for their special illness. The feeble-minded are receiving intellectual attention, and are being given opportunity to develop as far as it is possible. The deaf and blind have been placed in institutions which have really come to be schools. The treatment of crime is improving, especially where children are involved. Juvenile courts have been established, where children are treated as neglected children and not criminals. Dependents are being given intelligent care, and causes of their condition considered. The aged are given better care, both in their own homes, and institutions. Orphans are being given a square deal, in fact children have come unto their own. They are being given health opportunities in pre-school clinics, and health examinations in the school; they are having enough to eat, school opportunity and suitable recreation. To the Latter-day Saints the coming forth of the Book of Mormon, and the establishment of the Church, with all its blessings and opportunities, is the rarest gift of all, and it is most appropriate that it occurred in this most progressive period of the world's history. When we take into account all of the progress which has been made in the fields of invention, discovery, social justice, and in other fields, together with the greatest event, the restoration of the gospel by the Prophet Joseph Smith, we can be grateful, as we surely are grateful, that we have lived during this wonderful period of time. 
 Clarissa S. Williams We have listened with interest to the various ideas of those who have addressed us, and it was borne in upon me how typical has this afternoon meeting been of the activities of the Relief Society?spiritual and temporal combined. You know when the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, he gave us a certain field of labor, and it was a temporal labor, but in addition to that he told us that we should be saviors of souls. Now, during the six months which have passed, you may well understand that the Relief Society has been very busy. Mrs. Robison has given you a little idea of what has been going on throughout the Church in the Civic Pride movement, and I believe that all of you will bear out the statement that more good has come to the communities in the Church through this little activity than we can ever be able to measure, and that is only the beginning. There is one thing Mrs. Robison failed to mention: in a certain stake in the eastern part of Utah, there is a little ward which has no water supply, and it is necessary to carry all the water for culinary and other purposes. So the sisters there, knowing that it would be very difficult to get water for any plants or shrubs or anything of that sort, decided that they would plant bachelor buttons, since these flowers are very thrifty and hardy. They planted bachelor buttons and carried water, some of them at least a half mile, and kept their bachelor buttons watered. When the time came for the flower exhibit they had a most wonderful exhibit of varieties of bachelor buttons. This is certainly a testimony to us of the desire of the women to carry out the instructions of the General Board. I would like to mention one other thing. I attended a flower show in this county, and on one table were 104 or 105 varieties of flowers?everything you could imagine. I did not even dream that there were so many kinds of flowers in the county, and they were the product of a middle aged woman who was an invalid and whose physician had told her she must spend her time in the sunshine and in the open air, and she had taken that opportunity, which was a real pleasure. Since we met in April the following organization and reorganizations of Relief Societies have been made: San Francisco stake, organized July 10, 1927, Mrs. Eva Merrill appointed president; Jordan stake, divided into East Jordan and West Jordan stakes, May, 1927, Mrs. Elfleda L. Jensen retained as president of East Jordan, and Mrs. Mary J. Pixton appointed president of West Jordan; Los Angeles stake, divided into Hollywood and Los Angeles stakes, Mrs. Katherine R. Stewart retained as president of Hollywood stake, and Mrs. Laura P. Hotalling appointed president of Los Angeles stake: Big Horn stake, reorganized July 31, 1927, Mrs. Helen B. Croft released, Mrs. Hazel N. Boyack ap- CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 33 pointed president; Blaine stake, reorganized May 8, 1927, Mrs. Laura J. Adamson released, Mrs. Mirtis Cooper appointed president; Boise stake, reorganized September 18, 1927, Mrs. Bessie G. Hale released, Mrs. Florence E. Lewis appointed president; Fremont stake, reorganized August 14, 1927, Mrs. Lavina Walker released, Mrs. Marie M. Merrill appointed president; Pioneer stake, reorganized August 28, 1927, Mrs. Mary A. Cutler released, Mrs. Lettie T. Cannon appointed president; Salt Lake stake, reorganized September 25, 1927, Mrs. Vilate N. Bennion released, Mrs. Elizabeth C. Williams appointed president. I desire to say that the General Board expresses love and appreciation for the work of the women who have been released as stake presidents and officers of the Relief Society, and extends the heartiest congratulations and good wishes to the women who have been appointed to preside over the stakes. From reports which have been made to our visitors to your conventions, we learn that the spirit of the Lord is with the Relief Society, and love and unity prevail. Extensive work is being done along many lines. Some very notable work has been done in the clinics and along health lines generally. We are especially interested in child welfare work, and I would like to say to you sisters that there will never come a time when child welfare work will not be carried on and featured by the Relief Society, when we will not be urging that traveling nurses be obtained to go among your communities, when we will cease to labor with all our might for the betterment of mothers and of little children. Whatever we can learn from books or from the experience of other people, we are endeavoring to pass on to you, that you may help in the great humanitarian work of bettering community life. I believe we are all proud of the part which we are playing in the building up of the communities and in the thought that we are building for the future; and whatever we may do for the betterment of the children, or for the mothers, or for the aged people, is for the bettering of community life. I believe that as we grow older and as our children and grandchildren take our places in this great work, that we will have a pride in saying to them that we were among the pioneers in this humanitarian labor, just as we have a pride in saying that we are carrying on the work of those noble women who were first appointed to establish this work. As year after year has gone by until more than eighty years have passed, I believe that we feel that our mothers and grandmothers are satisfied with the work we are endeavoring to do. My belief is that they know what we are doing and that they are pleased and satisfied when we endeavor to do right and to carry on the work properly. I believe that they rejoice that we have been able to conceive of what was in their hearts when they were organized 
 and told to go forth and be saviors of men and to help build up communities. I want to say to you my dear sisters that I appreciate the love and confidence of the members of the Relief Society. I appreciate the support and confidence which I have from my counselors and secretary, and from the members of the General Board, and it gives me great joy and satisfaction to believe that you are pleased and satisfied with what we are trying to do. We are trying to progress. We do not desire to stand still. There is danger in standing still, and failing to meet the new problems. I just want to say to you that the General Board members are united in the desire to assist you to carry on the work in your stakes and wards in a satisfactory manner to you, that love and harmony and peace and goodwill may be with you, and that you may have the confidence of the Priesthood authorities in your districts, that you may feel that you are sustained and upheld by them in your work. And as reports come to us, week by week and month by month, we are gratified and pleased with the advancement which you are making. I pray that we may ever have the spirit of our heavenly Father to be with us in our work. I want to say to you that I desire the blessings of our heavenly Father to support and help me. I want to bear my testimony to you of the truth of the gospel, and I want to express the joy that I have in the privilege of living in this day and generation when the gospel has been restored, and if I can only have the Spirit of my heavenly Father to be with me, to help me and support me, I shall be a blessed woman. I pray that you may all realize the righteous desires of your hearts, that our heavenly Father will bless you, that the year which is coming may be the most successful and prosperous that you have ever had, and that you may be instruments in the hands of our heavenly Father in helping to build up his work and that you may have his Spirit to be with you. I ask this, my dear sisters, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.