Compensation." The first poem to receive honorable mention is that of Phyllis Hodgson of Ogden, entitled "My Son;" the second is a poem by Amy M. Rice of San Jose, California, entitled "Mother's Evening Song," and the third is a poem by Alvaretta S. Engar of Salt Lake City, entitled "Ere the Roses Bloom."
The committee having charge of the 1927 contests consisted of Mrs. Julia A. Child, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards. The judges of the contest were: Professor B. Roland Lewis, of the University of Utah, Miss E. E. Hollis, of the Salt Lake Tribune and Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine of the General Board. The judges felt that their task was particularly difficult, not so much as regards the first poem as a number of very competent persons agreed, but great difficulty was expressed in selecting the poem for second prize and the three for honorable mention. One of the judges remarked that any one of five poems might easily be given second place. We mention this to encourage those who entered and to assure our contestants that when judges are forced to select one from a number of excellent poems they often find the task extremely difficult.
The Magazine extends congratulations to the winners and to all contestants whose entries have made this year's contest truly notable. We also take this opportunity of thanking the judges for their important share in the work.
The New Cover
The General Board takes pleasure in presenting the Magazine in a new cover. The design is the work of C. Nelson White, an artist whose work is well known in a number of magazines throughout the United States. Readers of the Saturday Evening Post and the Ladies' Home Journal may now and again have noticed sketches from Mr. White in those periodicals. He is familiar to people throughout the Church because of the excellent work he has been doing for years on the Children's Friend.
Editors' Notes
The name of the writer of the article entitled "Dixie's Santa Clause," published in the December issue of the magazine, was
EDITORIAL 21
omitted for lack of room. The story was written by Mrs. Annie Atkin Tanner.
We are adding A. E. Housman to the Literature Lesson for March as it will make us acquainted with two well-known poets of England at the present time, rather than one.
Appreciation
President Clarissa S. Williams and members of the General Board wish to express appreciation for all the messages of cheer and good will that have come to the office from Relief Societies and Church workers everywhere during the holiday season that has just passed.
Mrs. Elsie T. Brandley Wins Prize Christmas Story
We are happy to congratulate Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley of the Editorial Staff of the Young Woman's Journal on winning the $25.00 prize offered by the Deseret News, for the Christmas poem of 1927. Mrs. Brandley has written a number of stories for the Relief Society Magazine. We appreciate the quality of her work and wish her success in the future.
Mrs. Lyman National Council Auditor
The Magazine extends heartiest congratulations to Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society Board, who has recently been elected Auditor of the National Council of Women.
An Error Corrected
In the report of the General Conference of the Relief Society in the December issue of our Magazine the sketch entitled "How the Exponent was Started," by Lula Green Richards, contains a mistake which requires correction. Instead of Levi Edgar, as published, the name of Mrs. Richards' husband was Levi Willard Richards. The error is very much regretted and we can only hope that all who read or have read the brief but interesting sketch will also notice this correction.
Conference Addresses
Inez Knight Allen Newly Appointed Member of General Board
I am sure most of you, who are officers in the Church, can sympathize with me at this moment. When I was quite a young girl, I received a patriarchal blessing in which I was promised that, if I lived for it, I might associate with the choice people of the earth. I feel now that in the opportunity I have of associating with these wonderful women of the General Board, and with you as officers in the Relief Society, that the promise which was made to me so long ago is being abundantly fulfilled.
I was promised also in that blessing that I would be called to positions of responsibility in the Church, but that did not mean much to me then. I remember when I was still a young girl meeting my bishop one day, and he said, "Sister Inez, I have been thinking lately that I would call on you to join the Relief Society in the ward and see if you can help the sisters out in their work." Of course, he was thinking about the benefit it would be to me, but I did not appreciate that from my bishop, and when I left him, I thought, "I wonder how old he thinks I am, anyway; I wonder if he thinks I am going to join the Relief Society!' I did not go near the Relief Society, and soon forgot he had ever mentioned it or that there was a Relief Society. Two or three years after that, I found myself a missionary away over in England, and when I received a letter from the president of the mission saying he desired me to go on a journey of about fifty miles into another conference to help organize a Relief Society, I thought about it then and wished I had paid more attention to the advice of my bishop. I consulted with my conference president, who fortunately was the husband of a Relief Society woman and knew something about the work, and he helped me out the best he could. Some of us have to learn by hard experience the lesson of obedience. I remember another lesson I had while I was a missionary. I had labored for six months in Bristol conference. After leaving it, and going to labor in the London conference, I felt lonely and rather homesick, and I was always wishing I could go back to Bristol where I knew the Saints and loved them and felt that they loved me. So when they had conference in Bristol I went 'to the conference president and told him I would like to attend the Bristol conference. He told me how busy they were in my new field of labor, and he did not think I should go over to Bristol to conference. But I wanted to go and take my new missionary companion and have her meet all the nice people in Bristol that CONFERENCE ADDRESSES 23 I knew, and so I insisted, and he finally said that he would let us off for a day or two to go. The day before the conference, we were invited to eat luncheon at the mission house, and when we went there, we noticed little groups of people in the streets and around in the yard, and other groups gathering in the street, and finally there was a big mob of people in the street, and they began throwing stones through the windows. They broke out all the windows, and finally -President Lyman said, "This is no place for you sisters; you'd better go back to your own apartments." My brother started to take us, and when we went out of the house into the mob, they said, '"'There is one of them and his two wives,' and we were the targets and they began throwing stones and filth out of the gutter at us. My brother finally got us to the police station, and they succeeded in dispersing the mob, and took us through an underground tunnel back to our lodgings. Later, the president sent a note, telling us to take the train at 6:30 next morning and go back to London, which we did. Besides these lessons, I have had blessings at the hands of my heavenly Father when I have tried to be obedient to him. One of these blessings came when I was first called as a missionary. We attended a conference, and with fear and trembling we spoke at the. Meeting, but felt that we had not said anything worthwhile. Twenty years later a letter came from a man in Idaho who said that if he had not heard our testimonies at that meeting, he might not have been led to think more about the gospel. He sent this letter of appreciation on a Thanksgiving day, after twenty years. If we trust the Lord and do as the Prophet Nephi did, and know as he knew that the Lord calls upon us to do nothing but that he will help to prepare us to do, we are sure of his blessings. Paul tells us in Galatians that the "fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance." I am sure we observe the fruits of that spirit when we mingle with President Williams whom we all love, with the good sisters of the General Board, with the sisters away out in the far districts, wherever we find them engaged in this Relief Society work. Where do we gather the fruits and flowers from the tree in the garden? Isn't it out on the twigs and branches of the trees? Where do we find the light coming from the big power plants? It is in the little globes, if they are in order to receive the light and are properly connected. So it is with us. If we are prepared to receive the Spirit of our heavenly Father, then the light of the gospel shines in us and our heavenly Father is glorified. -_ Surely the women in all this Relief Society are struggling in a big, progressive way to do that which is best for them, and for the cause, and I doubt not that in a day to come, our heavenly Father will say to these good women, "For I was an hungered, 
 and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." I pray that the Spirit of the Lord will help us in our work, that we may work unitedly together for the good of this hi gospel which has been revealed to us.