The Conference of Christian Workers, recently held in Salt Lake City, quotes Dr. H. H. Powell, of San Francisco, as saying: "The mind of man, within the last century, has made the sharpest turn in the history of civilization, which many orthodox 
 church people fail to recognize." He said further, "If one accepts the actual physical resurrection of the body there can be no vital objection to any of the absurdities of 'Mormon' theology concerning life after leaving this earth." Sir Oliver Lodge, England's great scientist, has become converted to spiritualism, and has published a book containing many articles purporting to be communications received by him through a medium from his son who was killed during the great war. Many other men and women have become spiritualists, in one form or another. They are tired of the vague heavens of the Christian world, they want something definite and clear. But Latter-day Saints do not need to drink from the muddy water of spiritualistic communications, in order to learn of the conditions and status of spirits on the other side of the veil. It is always unwise to dabble with spiritualistic doctrines and practices. We are told by Paul that things earthly are a type of things heavenly. We know that there is organization over there, and a Church of Christ to which Saints belong, there as they did and do here. There are many spirits outside the Church there as there are people here, outside of this Church. Our social and religious association, however, should be and will be confined to those who belong to the Church over there, as it is, practically, here. We may and shall try to teach all men and women the truth, but we should remember one thing: the Priesthood rules there as it does here, and only under the authority and protection of the Priesthood will we be saved and happy there and here. The Prophet describes these conditions in the "Gems" found in the Compendium. Read the statements there under the following headings: The Punishment of the Devil?May 21, 1843. The World of Spirits. Spirits of the Just?October 9, 1843. A Visitor? January 21, 1836. Translation?October 5, 1840. The Millennium?December 30, 1842. Salvation?May 17, 1843. All Revelations are Spiritual. The Contention in Heaven. A Key. Observation on the Sectarian God. Teachings of President Brigham Young: "Spirits are just as familiar with spirits as bodies are with bodies, though spirits are composed of matter so refined as not to be tangible to this coarser organization. They walk, converse, and have their meetings; and the spirits of good men like Joseph and the elders who have left this Church on earth for a season to operate in another sphere are rallying all their powers, and going from place to place preaching the gospel, and Joseph is directing them, saying, 'Go ahead, my brethren, and if they hedge up your way, walk up and command them to disperse. You have the Priesthood, and can disperse them, but if any of them wish to hear the gospel, preach it to them.' Can they baptize them? No. What can they do? They can preach the gospel, and when we have the GUIDE LESSONS 607 privilege of building up Zion, the time will come for saviors to come up on Mount Zion. Some to those who are not in mortality will come along and say, 'Here are a thousand names I wish you to attend to in this temple, and when you have got through with them I will give you another thousand.' And the elders of Israel and their wives will go forth to officiate for their forefathers, the men for the men, and ee = for the women."?From the Contributor, Vol. X, page "What will be the occupation of Mary Freeze in the world to come? What will she do there? We are told that she will not be idle. She could not be idle. In God's plans there is no such thing as idleness. God is not pleased with the thought of idleness. He is not idle, and there is no such thing as inertia in the providences and in the purposes of God. We are either growing and advancing, or are retrograding. We are not stationary. We must grow. * * * The principles of everlasting growth and development tend to glory, to exaltation, to happiness, and to a fulness of joy. What has she been doing? She has been working in the temple, among other things. She has been working, also, as a minister of life among the young women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. * * * She has been laboring to bring others of the daughters of Zion to the same standard of knowledge, faith and understanding of the gospel of Christ that she herself possessed. * * * What can you conceive of greater than this? To my mind there isn't anything so great and so glorious in this world as to labor for the salvation of the living and the redemption of the dead. We read of the Savior going to the spirits in prison and preaching the gospel to them when his body lay in the tomb. That was a part of the great mission he had to perform. He was sent not only to preach the gospel to those dwelling in mortality, but he was fore-ordained and anointed of God to open the doors of the prison house to those in bondage and to proclaim the gospel to them. "I have always believed and still do believe with all my soul that such men as Peter and James, and the twelve disciples chosen by the Savior in his time, have been engaged all the centuries that have passed since their martyrdom for the testimony of Jesus Christ, in proclaiming liberty to the captives in the spirit world and in opening their prison doors, * * * "Who is going to preach the gospel to the women? Who is going to carry the testimony of Jesus Christ to the hearts of the women who have passed away without a knowledge of the gospel? Well, to my mind, it is a simple thing. These good sisters that have been set apart, ordained to the work called to it, authorized by the authority of the holy Priesthood to minister for their sex, in the House of God for the living and for the dead, will be fully authorized and empowered to preach the gospel and administer to the women while the elders and prophets are preaching to the men. The things we experience here are typical of the things of God and the life beyond us. There is a great similarity between God's purposes as manifested here and his purposes as carried out in his presence and kingdom. Those who are authorized to preach the gospel here and are appointed here to do that work will not be idle after they have passed away, but will continue to exercise the rights that they obtained here under the Priesthood of the Son of God to minister for the salvation of those who have died without a knowledge of the truth." President Joseph F. Smith?Gospel Doctrine, pp. 577-582. 
 When our dear ones question us, or are in mourning let us comfort them with these extracts from modern revelation, for the Latter-day Saints are the only people teaching the truth, concerning the other side. Let us study truth. QUESTIONS Explain the doctrine of pre-existence? What does the Christian world believe about heaven? What do you think about heaven? Why? Why is Church organization needed over there? What will be your occupation in heaven? Why is spiritualism an unsafe doctrine? What does the Prophet say about the world of spirits?. If possible read the "Teachings of Brigham Young," found in the April, 1920, Utah Genealogical Magazine. 9. Quote from President Smith's vision in regard to the departed. (See Relief Society Magazine, Dec., 1919; Improvement Era, December, 1918.) DON DUR WN LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in December.) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in December. ) Emily Hill Woodmansee. It is reported that when President Joseph F. Smith was asked to name his favorite hymn, he said, "I am not certain that Emily Hill Woodmansee's hymn, 'Uphold the right' is not my favorite.' Later we learned from members of President Smith's family that "I know that my redeemer lives" was his favorite hymn. While we do not doubt this latter statement in the least, we feel equally certain that "Uphold the right" was one of his favorite hymns. ? > Emily Hill Woodmansee was naturally spiritual minded; she was one of those persons who from her very childhood hungered and thirsted after righteousness. In very tender years she pondered much in her childish way over the eternal destiny of the human family. GUIDE LESSONS 609 She was twelve years of age when the gospel message first came to her. It was brought by her cousin Miriam Slade, whom she later accompanied to a Latter-day Saint meeting with great Eagerness. At the meeting she heard the things she greatly longed to hear, and to use her own words was converted in the Same manner as those on "the day of pentecost." The joy of that day never left her, it lives in practically all her hymns, No after factor appears to have loomed up to her with the same significance as the fact that the gospel had been restored. She writes, "Never shall [ forget that day, surely it was the turning point of my whole life." Thrilled as she was by all she had heard, she failed to impress her parents with the necessity for her immediate baptism, consequently, while she attended meetings, and made constant contributions to the Church, she did not enter the waters of baptism until she was sixteen years of age, The Latter-day Saints hymn book contains six hymns from the pen of Emily Hill Woodmansee. Before she left her native country one of the elders blessed her, and in the blessing promised her that she should write both Prose and poetry. The existence of these hymns in the hymn book is evidence that his promise was fulfilled; yet her hymns are only a few poems, selected from a rather large group of poems that bear her name. "Come, Saints," and "Oh, blest was the day," embody in their thought content the message of the restored gospel, impregnated with the fullest measure of joy and gratitude. The "Day of redemption" calls to mind the persecution of the Saints after entering these valleys. Like, "O ye mountains high," it will preserve the emotions of that period of storm and stress through which the Saints went after coming to the west. "Resting now," is a favored funeral] hymn, written at the departure of some sister, a friend of the author, whose identity we have not been able to find. Emily Hill Woodmansee's name should be revered by all Latter-day Saint women, for she has written a hymn setting forth the work and spirit of the first great woman's organization of the Church, the Woman's National Relief Society. It is doubtful if. Any other organization in the Church has been so singled out for such special honor by the compilers of the Latter-day Saints hymn book. It is a great compliment to the organization, also to the author of the hymn: Inspired from above the Father of love: Formed the daughters of Zion's great organization, Its purpose indeed is to comfort and feed 
 The honest and poor in distress and in need, Oh! The daughters in Zion, the friends of the poor, Should be patterns of faith, hope and charity pure. Mrs. Woodmansee's two best known hymns are "Uphold the right," and "When dark and drear."' "Uphold the right," is justly popular, due largely to the spirit of steadfastness and courage breathed in every line. There is little unity of thought in the hymn, so that a study of it from the thought content side will not yield very great satisfaction. Its chief merit is on its emotional content. When one gets through reading or singing the hymn one may not have added much to one's thought accumulation, but one can hardly escape imbiding a spirit of determination to stand for the right, and do the right, regardless of foes from within or without. The ability to write terse epigramatic lines expressing the thought in such concentrated language as to create memory gems is a talent sought after and coveted by most writers. Such talent Mrs. Woodmansee possessed, as witnessed in the following quotations from "Uphold the right," "No coward can be called a man? No friend. Will friends betray. Note how they toil whose aim is spoil, Who plundering plots devise. Can honor mate with treacherous hate? Can figs on thistles grow? Left handed fraud let those applaud Who would by fraud prevail. "When dark and drear," is perhaps, from most points of view, the best hymn from the pen of Mirs. Woodmansee. No doubt the music set to it by the well known composer, Jos. J. Daynes, has much to do with the favor in which it is held by many people; nevertheless, it has much merit apart from the music. It is not superior in its emotional content to "Uphold the right," but it preserves the unity of the theme throughout: When dark and drear the skies appear, And doubt and dread would thee enthrall, Look up, nor fear, the day is near, And Providence is over all. GUIDE LESSONS 611 From heaven above, his light and love God giveth freely when we call, Our utmost need is oft decreed, And Providence is over 'all, With jealous zeal God guards our weal, And lifts our wayward thoughts above; When storms assail life's bark so frail, We seek the haven of his love. And when our eyes transcend the skies, His gracious purpose is complete, No more the night destracts our sight? The clouds are all beneath our feet. The direst woe that mortals know Can ne'er the honest heart appal Who holds this trust?that God is just, And Providence is over all. Should foes increase to mar our peace, Frustrated all their plans shall fall, Our utmost need is oft decreed, And Providence is over all. Faith in God, and abiding confidence that no matter what the odds, God will bring us safely through, is the dominant note of this hymn. We hear much today of optimism. Helen Keller has written a book on optimism. Surely it is due Emily Hill Woodmansee that we take into account the splendid optimism of her hymns, noticeable in such hymns as "Uphold the right," "The day of redemption," "When dark and drear the skies appear." Particularly is this fact noteworthy when we call to mind, to use the words of a sister poet, "the deepning trials that thronged her way." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS, 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of Emily Hill Woodmansee. 2. Select some lines from "Come, Saints," that indicate that Mrs. Woodmansee was rejoicing over the fact that the gospel had been restored. 3. Do you know anything about her life showing that she very much appreciated the restoration of the gospel? 
 4.What is the name of the hymn written to the National Woman's Relief Society? (a) By whom was this organization effected, and what was the time of organization? 5. Read the chorus of this hymn very carefully and select the ideas embodied in the chorus that are in harmony with the purpose of the National Woman's Relief Society. 6. Read this hymn in its entirety to the association. 7. Read carefully "Uphold the right," and select from the hymn the material, whether pertaining to the thought content, or the style content, that you value personally. 8. What experience have you had in your life that would lead you to believe with Mrs. Woodmansee that "Providence is over all'? 9. In the light of the many trials through which Mrs. Woodmansee passed, how do you account for her splendid optimism? 10. Select some gems from Mrs. Woodmansee's hymns that you would be glad to retain as memory gems. LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in December.) JUVENILE DELINQUENCY II. The importance of proper home, school, church and community conditions in preventing delinquency was emphasized in our last lesson. It often happens, however, that under normal environmental conditions children develop delinquent tendencies. The cause of the unsocial conduct in such cases can usually be traced to some disorder in the physical or mental condition of the child. A child cannot and will not respond in a normal way in his home, school, church or community life unless his physical and mental condition is near the normal. PHYSICAL DISORDERS AS FACTORS IN CAUSING DELINQUENCY. It was at one time thought that the delinquent or criminal had physical peculiarities which distinguished them as a type from the normal. It is now generally conceded, however, that there is no criminal type, although it is true that peculiarities or stigmata of the ears, head, palate, face, teeth or hands are often found in criminals. The delinquency of childhood, however, is very much more often caused by remediable physical troubles.