LADY MACBETH AND OPHELIA.

	"The mind can make
Substance, and people planets of its own
With beings brighter than have been, and give
A breath to forms which can outlive all flesh."

	We are led to appreciate and comprehend
this power through no other works so much
as in those of the immortal Shakspeare. Has
he not created for us worlds and worlds of
thought? has he not discovered to us the
causes and effects of action? has he not given
us a more perfect conception of life than we
could form from merely observing life itself?
	Indeed, Shakspeare's perception is so vivid,
and his glance so comprehensive, that he can
search out the nature of all things and dis-
cover the relations of objects.
	It seems that the basis of every science can
be deduced from his writings; for this reason,
some intelligent investigators have been led to
believe that no one man could be the author
of them all; but the knowledge displayed in
his productions was so much in advance of the
age, that we know it was the effect of nothing
less than poetical inspiration.
	Shakspeare's knowledge of the human heart
land mind is so accurate that, under any cir-
cumstances, whether in health or disease, he 
never makes a mistake.
	He has perhaps never moulded a character
more ambitious, more powerful, more bloody
than Lady Macbeth; nor a character more
pure, more guileless, more gentle, than Ophe-
lia: yet, when we analyze and study the
characteristics of both, though radically dif-
ferent, we find they are essentially feminine.
Let us make a brief study of each, and by
comparison, discover traits and qualities that
otherwise would not appear.
	Lady Macbeth comes before us a beautiful
and attractive woman, with a form of delicate
and truly feminine mould, and with features
finely chizeled. She has just received a letter
from Macbeth, her husband, which conveys the
great news of the witches prophecy—that Mac-
beth should receive titles and would at length
become king. A shudder passes over us as we
gaze on that face and hear her exclamation—

"Glamis thou art, and Cawdor, and shall be
What thou art promis'd."

	There is a purpose in her tone which por-
tends bloody business. She determines to sweep
away "All that impedes him from the golden
round." While this resolution yet fires her
thoughts, a messenger announces that Duncan,
the king, will be her guest that very night. At
once she feels that uow is the time for action.
	Lady Macbeth is afraid, lest her conscience
will interfere with her base designs; so she calls
the spirits—"that tend on mortal thought," to
unsex her and fill her with "direst cruelty" and
stop up the access to remorse.
	Macbeth arrives now, and Lady Macbeth
begins her task of planning for the murder.
For the night's great business she had chosen
to take in her own dispatch. She had at once
to play the gracious hostess to the king, and
keep Macbeth to the dire task of assassinating
him,—for Macbeth was a moral coward, and
as the fatal hour approached, his courage
failed, and in this state of irresolution Lady
Macbeth found him. In vain does he protest
that he cannot murder the king, his kinsman
guest; in vain does he plead danger of discov-
ery; her final appeal, "From this time, such do


[Column 1]

I account thy love," inspired the faltering
Macbeth with the determination to do all that
he had sworn to do.
	She made very easy work for Macbeth by
drugging the attendants; and, indeed, would
have herself dispatched Duncan: but, true to
her fears, her conscience rushes on her un-
awares and for the moment triumphs—her
hand is restrained by the king's resemblance
to her father; she does not, however, hesitate in
spurring on Macbeth to his damnation
	The murder committed, he is seized with in-
finite terror and remorse, while the latter is
beginning to find its way to Lady Macbeth's
heart; nevertheless, she summons enough will
and strength to carry the daggers Macbeth
had brought in his confusion, back to the
chamber where Duncan lies slain; then, after
smearing the grooms with blood, she returns to
exclaim:

"My hands are of your color; but I shame
To wear a heart so white."

	The knocking at the gates has already be-
gun, and though it sends Macbeth nearly mad,
his wife does not waver a moment: she almost
drags him from where he stands transfixed.
	It is in this scene where Lady Macbeth dis- 
plays her superhuman will,—she seems to crush
everything that comes in her way; she ascends
to the topmost tower of her strength: the effort
was too great, and she soon gives way, but not
before she again exercises great will-power in
the banquet scene, when she seeks to bring
Macbeth to his healthy mind, as the apparition
of Banquo rises before him; she also endeavors
to give proper explanations of his wild actions
to the company, but finding him growing
wilder, and her own strength failing, she gra-
ciously dismisses the company. Though she
had uttered the most cutting sarcasm to her
husband, to recall his better wisdom, she says
not a word of reproach when they are left
alone—there is something touching in this si-
lence: she loves her husband, and her ambition
has ever been for him, more than herself; she
could not have done all she did with purely
selfish motives.
	She is not haunted by ghosts or terrified by
air-drawn daggers as Macbeth is, for during
her waking moments, all within her heart is
concealed—but she is troubled with "Thick
coming fancies, that keep her from her rest."
A somnambulist, haunting the house like a
spectre, "with eyes open to external things,
but with sense shut," she sees the spots of blood
on her hands and seeks to wash them away.
Alas! a little water might wash the filthy wit-
ness from her hand, but it cannot wipe out the
remembrance of it, nor will "all the perfumes
of Arabia" sweeten that little hand!
	Ophelia, the fair-haired daughter of the
north, arouses all our sympathies and we love
her for her untainted purity of heart. She is
very young and her mind not developed. We
first behold her when she is bidding farewell to
her brother, Laertes,—there is an expression of
sadness on her face which clings there. Laertes
thinks it his duty to warn Ophelia against the
"importunities of Lord Hamlet," tells her to
think them

"Forward, not permanent, sweet, not lasting
The perfume and suppliance of a minute: no more!"

	Ophelia replies half unconsciously, "No
more, but so." She believes in the sincerity of
her lover, but promises to keep her brother's
counsel as "watchman to her heart."
	She replies to her father's questioning on the
same subject, that Hamlet had given her many
tenders of his affection in honorable fashion.
Polonius perplexes and wounds her by his
harsh language, but she receives it with quiet
submission; and upon his commanding her to
give no more words with Lord Hamlet, she re-
plies, "I shall obey, my Lord."
	The anguish this cost her was known only to 
herself.

[Column 2]

	Hamlet's repulsion was the cause of his
rushing in her presence, wild in his attire, but,
with a look so piteous that is smote her heart,
she goes to her father to aquaint him with her
fears, that Hamlet was mad for her love. With
this news, Polonius is pleased; his resentment
disappears, and he hastens to inform the king
and queen. The plan is then made for Ophelia
to meet Hamlet and offer to return his remem-
brances, the scene is to be viewed from a place
of concealment by Polonius and the king, 
where they await in joyful expectation of dis-
covering that the sequel of Hamlet's madness,
is his love for Ophelia. But Hamlet heaps up-
on Ophelia's head invectives, and accuses her
of deceit. tells her he did love her once, and
upon her replying, "Indeed, my Lord, you
made me believe so," he continues, "You
should not have believed it. I loved you not."
In this scene he lacerates her heart unmerci-
fully. Ophelia scarcely replies to his cutting
remarks, but when he has gone out from her
presence, she utters a heart-broken cry:

"Oh, woe is me, 
To see what I have seen, see what I see!"

	We next see Ophelia at the play in com-
pany with the King, Queen and Court, here
she is for once happy; Hamlet reclines at her
feet, and utters not a word of scorn or re-
proach. This is the last time Hamlet is per-
mitted to behold Ophelia. On that very night,
he fatally stabs Polonius, Ophelia's father, mis-
taking him for the king.
	Poor Ophelia! her brother in a foreign land,
her father slain, and by the idol of her heart—
who was left to support and console her now?
Her already wounded spirit was crushed by
this blow, and her fine and sensitive intellect
completely dethroned by the horror and grief
of the situation.
	She appears before us now, the "queen of a
fantastic realm;" her thoughts are combina-
tions of disjointed things," but unmerciful fate
is not yet satisfied: Ophelia is destined to live
on yet a little longer.

	"The ruined wall stands
When the windworn battlements are gone,
The bars survive the captive they enthrall;
The day drags through, though storms keep out the sun,
And thus the heart will break, yet brokenly live on."

	Ophelia and Lady Macbeth, as productions
of Shakspeare, are equally great in their sep-
arate spheres, though nearly three centuries
have passed away since they were created by
an inspired pen, yet, they continue to shine in
the universe of literary characters as stars of
the first magnitude.
	From the study of these two characters we
get a knowledge of the capabilities, powers and
also the limits of the mind.
	We cannot conceive of two characters more
unlike. Lady Macbeth! what a feeling of ab-
horence strangely mingled with awe and pity
is awakened by the very name, abhorence for
her wickedly ambitious deeds, awe for her
superhuman will, and pity, for her mind shat-
tered by the shocks of many crimes. Ophelia,
on the contrary, excites our love for her sweet-
ness, our admiration for her sincerity and our
sorrow for her self-sacrifice.
	Before we judge Lady Macbeth too harshly
let us remember that the moral tendency of her
age was bad, in that ambition, an element of
life most necessary when kept within healthy
bounds, was carried to excess; her perverted
nature was to a greater or less extent the effect
of it.
	Ophelia was brought up in the strictest se-
clusion from society and only the better part
of her nature was cultivated. She was ignor-
ant of evil, and this at times is the cause of
her seeming weakmindedness.
	The chief element of Lady Macbeth's char-
acter is ambition; she wishes Macbeth to be
king and herself his queen, yet, when this is
finally accomplished, she says "nought's had,

[Column 3]

all's spent," she feels that she has gained
nothing, yet sacrificed all. Lady Macbeth had
wonderful will power, which enabled her to set
aside all scruples in gaining the object of her
ambition. This power was the result of nerv-
ous excitement. Thus, after the murder of
Duncan, we find her rapidly failing. Had she
gone on with Macbeth and taken an active part
in the murders he committed, subsequently
she could have perhaps retained this power,
but we never hear of her in connection with
wicked deeds again, though the heart-broken
reference she makes in the sleep walking scene
to the Thane of Fifes wife, is evidence that she
is informed of Macbeth's actions. She has
nothing left but to brood over the fresh crimes
of her husband as well as her own past ones,
and having lost her will through inactivity the
veil drops from her conscience she had so rudely
covered, and bares it to the view of her mind.
Ophelia cared not for the title queen (though
the chance of her obtaining it was perhaps
greater than for Lady Macbeth). Ophelia
loved Lord Hamlet with all the power of her
heart, yet sacrificed her feelings uncomplain-
ingly at her father's command—filial obedience
usurped ambition's place, Ophelia's powers
were not developed, yet we realize it required
a great amount of will to execute her father's
commands in regard to Lord Hamlet. She
exercised a quiet firmness and did not waver a
moment from the course she believed to be
right, her will was excited and dictated by
purely conscientious scruples. Lady Macbeth
is a moving power of action, Ophelia is carried
on with the currents of human events.
	The former has keen perceptive faculties, she
reads the minds of others, she suspects people.
She is quick to decide, having fixed on a line
of action, she follows it up, letting nothing in-
terfere with her progress. The latter, herself
pure, fancies the motives of others above sus-
picion, she is left very little to decide for her-
self. All her actions are a natural result of
what precedes. While Lady Macbeth creates
opportunities, Ophelia is wholly governed by
those already in existence. Lady Macbeth, in-
stead of trying to curb evil thoughts, courts
them, and steels her heart against the influence
of good. She appears to have no belief in the
existence of a power greater than the mind.
Evil seems to fear Ophelia, she has a firm be-
lief in Sweet Heaven and in Heavenly Powers.
	Lady Macbeth took her own life to escape
the terrible rack of an abused conscience.
Ophelia was unwittingly the cause of her own
death, a victim to circumstances produced by
others.
	Lady Macbeth comes before us for the last
time and, as we gaze on her face, we realize
that bad, unscrupulous and powerful as she had
been, her heart is broken and bleeding, her
conscienee is sorely awakened and she is under-
going the severest pangs of remorse. No longer
she stands before us a thing of almost super-
human will-power, but a creature of abject
helplessness. She steals away and we know it
is with the terrible guilt unwashed from her
soul. There is no chance of forgiveness for her,
yet the retribution is just We think of her
now with eyes all moistened with tears, but our
hearts are heavy, we sigh for her and our lips
are mute.
	Although insanity is considered the most dire
calamity, yet it comes like a ministering angel
to relieve Ophelia's soul, for while she sojourns
here she does not suffer that poignant grief that
would have forever been with her.
	Farewell, Ophelia, you have passed from this
life with those wild, sad songs on your lips
you have suffered much. Unused as you were
to care and troubles your heart was broken
and your mind was shattered by the wicked
acts of others. We would with the Queen have
joyed to see you the wife of your love, Hamlet,
but that being made impossible, we feel a sort


of calmness in putting you away from the sor-
rows of this life. Had you committed deeds of
sin we would feel a greater anguish, but we
part from you with the knowledge that you
passed away pure, lovely and divine.
