ANNUAL MEETING.
	Minutes of Annual Meeting of the Y.
L.	M. I. A. of the Seventh Ward held May
18th, 1887, President Sarah Eddington presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by
Bishop Wm. Thorne. Singing. Roll called, 
and minutes of previous meeting read and ap-
proved, after which the report of the Y. L.
meeting for the year ending May 13th, 1887,
was read by the Secretary. It was followed
by the programme exercises.
	An interesting correspondence, between Kate
Thomas and Alice McLachin was read. The
subjects touched upon in it were, revelation.
baptism for the dead, and the character and 
attributes of God. The 6th number of Vol.
4 of the Young Ladies' Journal, was read by
Alice Dinwoody. The paper was full of in-
structions, that would tend to elevate our 
morals, if put in practice. The congregation
then joined in singing the hymn, "The Spirit 
of God like a fire is burning."
	There were on the stand Prest. Angus M.
Cannon, Bishop Wm. Thorne, Coun. Thomas
H. Woodbury and R. K. Thomas; Sisters Tay-
lor, Dougall, Shipp, Lambert, Horne and others.
Remarks were made by Prest. Cannon, E. S.
Taylor, Maria Y. Dougall, Maggie Shipp and
M. I. Horne. They entreated the young ladies
to be virtuous and pure, to keep their characters
free from any stain, and urged them to prepare
themselves for the coming of the Savior, by
keeping His commandments and magnifying
our calling upon the earth; also made other en-
couraging remarks.
	A vote of thanks was tendered our visitors
for their presence and the good instructions
imparted by them.	
	The congregation then sang, "Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation." Benediction 
by Thomas H. Woodbury.
	After the meeting was over the company,
consisting of the members of the Relief Society,
the members of the Young Ladies' Association
and the visitors before mentioned, retired to 
the basement, where an excellent supper was 
prepared for them to make the evening more
enjoyable.
			ALICE MOLACIILAN, Sec.
	The following was composed by one of the
members of the Association for the Young
Ladies' Journal:
				A PRAYER,
	Our Father who in heaven doth reign
		In glory high above,
	Look down upon us here to-night,
		And fill us with Thy love.
	Thou knowest all our weakness, Lord,
		Thou searchest every heart;
	Oh bless and purify each soul,
		The Holy Ghost impart.
	That spirit which the things of God

[Column Two]

		Doth manifest to man,
	Brood o'er us while we study here
		The glorious Gospel plan.
	Thee do we ever wish to serve,
		And glorify Thy name.
	They testimony we desire,
		They presence to regain.
	Bless our Association, Lord,
		That we together may
	Unitedly and firmly stand,
		Fearless the trying day.
	And strengthen us that we may know
		Our feet are in the path.
	That road which leadeth back to Thee-
		The straight and narrow path.
	Our Father! here we dedicate
		Our future life to Thee;
	Do Thou accept and teach us how
		All wickedness to flee-
	To come to Thee in confidence
		Each weakness to confess,
	Proving how ready to forgive,
		How near Thou art to bless.
	Help us, dear Lord, to win Thy smile,
		Thy glory let us see;
	And when on earth our work is done,
		Oh, guide us home to Thee.


