EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	In my last letter I told you Her Majesty
had gone to Balmoral to spend her burth-day.
The morning of May 24th dawned brightly,
and the bells commenced ringing merrily, can-
nons were fired at intervals throughout the
day from the various dockyards and forts.
Flags were to be seen in every thoroughfare,
and the illuminations in the evening were gen-
eral, but the grandest were reserved for the
Jubilee day, which is fixed for June 21st. The
Aristocracy gave balls, banquets and receptions
to celebrate the 68th birthday of their illustri-
ous sovereign; but with these exceptions, no
public feeling of loyalty was manifest. Every-
one seemed determined to centre their atten-
tion on the day proclaimed by Her Majesty to
be kept as a jubilee holiday, in honor of the
Jubilee.
	There has been a special coinage this year,
and the coins represent the Queen, as she is at
the present time, on one side, and Saint George
and the dragon on the other. The portrait is
fairly good, but the crown to which her veil is
attached, is so placed on her head that it gives
one the impression it is falling off, and in a
great measure mars the coin. These, I believe,
are only to be circulated this year. On the
whole it is no improvement on the old coinage,
The half sovereigns and sixpences being so
much alike in size and stamp, that at the Crys-
tal Palace recently 32 sixpences had been
gilded over and tendered by some dishonest


[Column 1]

﻿people for half-sovereigns, and their similarity
causes dissatisfaction and distrust, and, if re-
ports are to be believed, these coins will be
called in. There is also a five pound piece,
which really possesses advantages, also the new
five shilling pieces; these latter are generally
retained by those who get them as mementos of
this eventful year. The editor of a Daily Tele-
graph newspaper has raised a fund in order to
give the children of London Board schools a
fete in honor of the Jubilee. Contributions
have been sent from all parts, and it is ar-
ranged to take place in Hyde Park on June
22nd, when the Queen has promised to drive
through that they may see her. It is an amus-
ing and interesting sight just now to walk
through some of our principal railway stations,
such as Charing Cross or Victoria, and watch
the arrivals of foreigners who have come to
London to witness the procession, which will
take place on June 21st from Buckingham
Palace to Westminister Abbey. Here is a
group of Germans, unable to speak English,
vainly looking for an interpreter to enable
them to get their luggage and proceed to their
hotels. Just opposite are two French ladies,
who are talking to a gentleman of the same
nationality and who evidently has been in
England some time. And how they are chat-
tering! as if their tongues were unlocked and
they now meant to make up for lost time. To
the right stands a party of distinguished look-
ing Indian gentlemen, who are evidently to be
guests of royalty from the carriage which they
quickly enter amidst cheers from the crowd,
who have followed the carriage and who feel
inclined to cheer anybody and anything con-
nected with the forthcoming event. Now and
then an Indian servant may be seen with the
pictursque red and white turban, and he stands
out in sharp contrast to the quiet-looking dress
of our own servants and porters, who, after
staring a few moments, hurry on with their
work calling cabs, rushing here and there with
luggage till all the passengers are gone to their
homes, and the next train comes in, when the
same scene is again enacted. The conutenan-
ces of the passengers are a study, some laugh-
ing, some crying, some looking intensely happy,
others very miserable. In the streets, in the
parks, the hotels, every place seems full of life,
and a pretty scene presents itself to our eyes
upon going in the parks, to see lovely green
trees and foliage which form a charming back-
ground to the bright, many-colored dresses of
the ladies, and the curious but extremely pic-
turesque dress of the foreign visitors.
	Queen Kapiolani of the Sandwich Islands.
and the Princess and suite have arrived, and
are staying at one of the West end hotels. The
Indian Princes are the guests of the Queen at
Buckingham Palace. The King of Denmark,
King and Queen of the Belgians, King of
Saxony, King of the Helenas, have also ar-
rived; also a representative from the Pope, and
many others too numerous to mention. All
the children of Queen Victoria will be present,
and most of her grand-children, and will take
part in the procession as well as the foreign
visitors. Rotten Row, the fashionable prom-
enade, is unpleasantly crowded, theatres are
filled, garden parties are being given, and en-
joyment and festivities are having full sway.
The Queen has returned to Windsor, and is
daily giving dinner parties and receiving ad-
dresses and deputations of congratulations. The
Prince and Princess of Wales have a house
full of visitors, and surely such a number of
kings, queens, princes and princesses never met
before.
	Westminister Abbey is finished and its usual
aspect is quite altered. From the floor to the
ceiling, seats, covered with red cloth, have been
erected for the accommodation of the favored
ones who will be permitted to witness the State
ceremony. A dais has been erected for the
royal family, and Her Majesty will occupy the

[Column 2]

Coronation Chair of Historical Interest. Out-
side the abbey a covered way has been erected
for the visitors to pass through, and a grand
stand has been erected for the members of
Parliament. The abbey is hid from view. The
whole of Sunday previous; to the ceremony,
workmen were busy hammering and erecting
stands, and were paid doubly for working on
the Sabbath, and it was surprising to see the
alacrity with which they stilled their feelings
about the sacredness of the Sabbath and of its
being a day of rest, when double wages were
offered.
	The military arrangements are now finally
authorized by the Duke of Cambridge, and
have been so arranged that the whole of the
route will be lined with military and naval de-
tachments. Westminister Hospital, which faces
the abbey, is externally in the hands of the
carpenters, who are putting seats all around
the building and erecting boards for spectators.
These seats, like a number of others, are fetch-
ing almost fabulous prices, such as ten guineas
for one seat, fifty guineas for a window, etc;
but, unlike most other schemes, the proceeds
will go to benefit the hospital, which nobly de-
serves all the support it can get. Hundreds of
sufferers are relieved here yearly, and funds
cannot be required or given for a better cause,
viz: the relief of our suffering fellow creatures.
	From one end of London to the other decor-
ations may be seen; the traffic is enormous,
the streets are almost blocked. Sightseers in
vehicles and on foot throng the streets, om-
nibuses are crowded outside and in, and tak-
ing advantage of the occasion by doubling, and
in some instances trebling, the ordinary fares;
but holiday makers, with their true English
characteristics, grumble and pay, well knowing
it can only be seen once in a lifetime.
	In my next letter I will endeavor to tell you
a little about the ceremony of June 21st.
