A POPULAR IGNIS-FATUUS.

	Moderu Christianity is exceedingly popular, and
the reason is that it promises everybody a com-
plete salvation both in this life and that which is
to come, for absolutely no exertion nor sacrifice
on their part, only a mere profession of faith or
belief in Christ. No wonder it is popular. A
natural propensity in the human family for obtain-
ing the greatest amount for the least possible out-
lay, is a notable fact; and how remarkably well
does so easy a way of securing the greatest boon
which poor, fallen humanity is offered, chime in
with this common tendency! and were it true, so
general would it be in its applicarion, that the very
devils would be saved even against their will, for
do they not believe that Jesus is the Christ? Yet,
however lovely, and grand, and beautiful it may
appear, it is contrary to the teachings of the Great
Author of salvation, and also to the whole tenor
of the New Testament writings.
	True, it is said that whosoever believes on the
Lord Jesus Christ shall be saved. But what con-
stitutes belief or faith in Christ is the all import-
ant question. James unequivocally states that
faith without works is dead, and scorns the idea
of works being separate from faith. To those who
consider works an obnoxious adjunct, we enquire,
what does James mean by asking: "What doth
it profit if a man say he hath faith and have no
works? Can faith save him?" He distinctly means
to inform them that faith and works are insepar-
able, and in a sense interchangeable terms. Again
he says: "Show me thy faith without thy works,
and I will show thee my faith by my works," in-
dicating that he who had no works had no faith,
and consequently could not be saved. It is "by
works that a man is justified, and not by faith
only; for as the body without the spirit is dead, so
faith without works is dead;" and how much dead
faith it takes to save anybody, James does not
condescend to say.
	Strange it is, that people should have such
aversion to "working out their salvation with fear
and trembling;" and stranger still that they should
claim to be saved merely because Christ died on
Calvary. Did not the Savior explicitly say: "Ex-
cept ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish;" "ex-
cept a man be born of water and of the spirit, he
cannot enter the Kingdom of God;" and "he that
endures to the end, the same shall be saved?" Of
what avail then is belief alone? Refuge is taken
behind the unscriptural assertion that by Christ's
death man’s eternal salvation was finished; and
that if we even think of doing anything, to secure
it, we rob Jesus of His glory. According to
James the fallacy of this is transparent. Why
should Paul, the great Apostle of faith, have need
to fear lest he should become a castaway? Why
should he need to work out his own salvation with
fear and trembling, if he believed it secured and
wrought out already? What an amount of labor
and anxiety would have been spared him, had he
lived in this "enlightened age," "this age of pro-
gressive theology!" No need of baptism, no need


of laying on of hands, no need of doing anything
—Christ did all. Why if that be true, what need
for preaching? It matters not whether we believe
or not, nothing can alter the grand result of His
crucifixion, that is, if by exclaiming, when giving
up the ghost, "It is finished," Christ meant that
there and then, unconditionally, we were saved
with an eternal salvation. With equal propriety
(or impropriety) we might infer that when, prior to
His betrayal, He prayed to the Father, saying: "I
have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished
the work which thou hast given me to do," man's
salvation was then accomplished.
	The Son of God came to seek and to save the
lost; and while there are sinners willing to repent,
Christ's work is not finished, "seeing that He ever
liveth to make intercession for them." But says
one, "We have to believe in His atonement."
"He that believeth not shall be damned." Then
we have to do something, and when that is ad-
mitted, does it not prove conclusively that, Christ
having done His part, we are required to do ours,
if we wish to secure that which we desire.
The very fact of our being required to believe
and be baptized proves there is something neces-
sary for us to do before we can "lay hold on eternal
life;" and that being the case, does it not clearly
show that they who clamor with holy horror
against doing anything to obtain salvation are in
error?
	Certain divines tell us that they must adapt the
truth to the advancement of the age, which means
that they must murder it and throw its dead body
to the dogs. It is asserted that the advanced
philosophy of the nineteenth century requires a
progressive theology to keep abreast of it, which
simply means that a popular lie shall take the
place of an offensive truth. Thus it is that mod-
ern Christianity, notwithstanding its popularity,
has proven a failure—because it is not the Chris-
tianity which Christ taught. Ringing down the
centuries come the Saxior's words: "If we love
me keep my commandments." "He that saith I
know Him and keepeth not His commandments,
is a liar, and the truth is not in Him." Therefor,
those who desire to be saved in the Kingdom of
our God must have faith in God and in His Son
Jesns Christ, our Redeemer, repent of their sins,
be baptized in water for the remission of the same,
have hands laid upon them for the reception of
the Holy Ghost by one having authority, and con-
tinue to walk in the narrow path which leads to
endless lives- "working out their salvation with
fear and trembling," by the grace of Him who has
called us out of darkness into His marvelous light.
And "Behold, now is the accepted time; now is
the day of salvation." (2 Cor vi, 2.)
