MARICOPA STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society of the
Maricopa Stake convened at the Society Hall,
June 16th, 1887, commencing at 1 p.m., Prest.
Elizabeth G. McDonald presiding. Opened
by singing, "O my Father, Thou that dwell-
est." Prayer by Bro. E. Ellsworth. Singing, 
"Sweet is the day of sacred rest."
	A few remarks were then made by Prest.
McDonald, expressive of her pleasure in meet-
ing with the sisters again under such favorable
circumstances. Roll of officers was then called,
which was generally responded to. Minutes
of previous conference read and approved Re-
ports were then called for from the different
branches of the Stake. Mesa was represented
by Prest. Mabel A. Hakes; Lehi, Prest. Lizzie
McDonald; Almy, Prest. Ann Kleinman;
Kempe not reported;  Papago, Coun. Savage.
Their reports were very encouraging, showing
the branches of the Relief Society in this dis-
tant country were trying to keep in the track
of their more favored sisters in the far north.
	After a few remarks by Coun. Morris, Bro.
Henry Rogers made some very interesting re-
marks. Had been much interested in the re-
ports and proceedings thus far. Said the time
had come when we had all got to stand for our-
selves; we know the Lord is on our side. Spoke
of being in Phoenix and meeting ex-Governor
Trittle; also Governor Zulich. "The one signed
the law disfranchising our people, the other
signed the bill repu liating it. They both have
made their records;  the one to endless infamy,
the other to everlasting honor. The Lord has
brought us to this land for a purpose; we must
sanctify the land by our good works; let us
strive to obtain the welcome plaudit, 'Well
done!'" Felt proud of the sisters; they were

[Column 2]

doing a good work, and were a great help in
the Stake. Was glad to meet with them in
their conference, and prayed the Lord to bless
them in their labors.
	Bishop Oscar Stewart felt that the Priesthood
of God was in the land, and they had a power-
ful backing in the sisters. Said the Spirit of
God had prompted him to come to this country,
and the opposite power should not draw him
out. "Let us retain our integrity to the cause
of truth."
	Bro. Charles Allen had listened with the
greatest satisfaction to what had been said.
Said the sisters were a great help to the
brethren. "We have got to pass through
trials, but the God of heaven will sustain us if
we are faithful." Gave many valuable instruc-
tions, which were cheering and encouraging to
his hearers.
	Bro. A. F. Stewart said, "All these Associa-
tions were necessary for the carrying on of the
work of God." Compared them to the wheels
of a watch;  each one was necessary to the other.
	Bro. Ellsworth had really enjoyed the meet-
ing and the remarks of the sisters; thought
many of them could beat the brethren speak-
ing;  thought this mission was established for an
Indian mission, and it was the duty of each
and every one to help sustain it. Spoke of the
duty of mothers in the training of their child-
ren. "Those who have done their duty in this
direction are our faithful sisters, those who at-
tend our meetings, and are always on hand to
do good."
	Officers of the Stake were then presented to
the conference and unanimously sustained.
	Prest. E. G. McDonald said how necessary it
was to keep the Spirit of God in our hearts in
every position in life. Gave good instruction
in regard to the raising of our children, and
teaching them day by day. "Remember those
where the head of the house is away; the situa-
tion of these sisters is not always understood."
Bore testimony that this is the Church and
kingdom of God. Conference adjourned for
three months. Singing, "God moves in a mys-
terious way." Benediction by Henry Rogers.
