MAY-DAY CELEBRATION.

	The Primary Association of Woodruff, Ari- 
zona, met in the school house at 9 o'clock, on
the 7th of May, ult., for the purpose of cele-
brating May-day, presided over by President
Sally Ann Owens. The children sang "Joseph
Smith's First Prayer." Prayer was offered by
Bishop J. C. Owens. Next was a song by the
Maids of Honor, viz: Eliza Tenny, Bessie
Deans, Nettie Webb, Sarah Tennie, Aretha
Bates, Maud Owens, Pearl Cross, Corn Cross,
Nelly Webb, Irene Bates, Carrie Webb and
Zina Owens.
	The crowning of the Queen, Ruth Gardner,
was performed while the song was being sung,
which was excellently rendered. Next was a
speech by the Queen, as follows:

Dear friends and all relations we've assembled here to-day,
To give to all a celebration, on this the 7th of May,
It seems that you have choosen to elect me as  your queen,
May I set an example worthy to be seen;
I hope I may be able, with joy to fill my place,
That it may be an honor to me, and not as a disgrace.
And may I live more worthily, to reach a higher mood
In the estimation of my friends, and also of my God.

	Primary children then sang,"In Our Lovely
Deseret." Next was an opening address by
Charles Lillywhite. Bella Gardner then gave
a recitation entitled, "The Old Hat." Next
was questions and answers on the life of Joseph
Smith, by a small class of boys, conducted by
Mary E. Lillywhite. Recitation by a small
class of girls, conducted by Sylvia Owens, en-
titled, "The Floral Alphabet." Song by Mary
Owens and company, entitled, "To The Work."
A dialogue was given by two small boys, Guy
Gardner and Wilford Webb. Bella Garduer
and Joseph Deans then sang a comic song en-
titled, "The Bummers;" a song by the Maids
of Honor entitled "With Merry Hearts We
Leave Our Play;" the Lord's prayer, recited
by Eliza Owens and company; dialogue by
Frank and Milo Webb, entitled "The Young
Critie." Bishoy J. C. Owens then made a few
remarks, giving some good instructions to the
children. Brother Geo. B. Gardner also made
a few remarks. The President gave some good
advice. Singing "Lord, Dismiss Us." Benedic-
tion by Clark Owens.
	All then went home to refresh themselves.
The queen and her maids being invited, went
to the house of the President to dine. At 2
o'clock all met again at the school house, and
the little ones danced about two hours, during
which time refreshments were served. The
Bishop's wife, who had been sick about a year,
was present; all seemed glad to see her, and
well they might. Songs recitations, etc., were


given at intervals during the dancing, and all
seomed to enjoy themselves well. Counselors
Isabelle Webb and Ellen Bates and all took
an active part in the success of the entertain-
ment.
