PRESIDENT JOHN TAYLOR.
		DIED JULY 25, 1887.
	Aged 78 years, 8 months and 24 days.
The footplate was engraved:
HOLINESS TO THE LORD.
REST IN	PEACE.
	The Tabernacle was tastefully draped in black
in honor of the illustrious dead, heavy black crape
being used for the organ and stands. In front of
the organ was an excellent steel-engraving of the
late President. Choice and lovely flowers were
arranged in vases and bouquets upon the stands,
and on the Sacrament table in the centre was a
large and elegant shield of flowers with the in-
scription CHAMPION OF LIBERTY in colors
contrasting harmoniously with the whole. It was
indeed a beautiful peace of artistic flower weaving.
A large sheaf of wheat fully ripe was near with
the appropriate words,
WELL DONE, GOOD AND FAITHFUL SERVANT.
	The stand of the First Presidency was unoc-
cupied. In the next were seated Lorenzo Snow,
Franklin D. Richards and Heber J. Grant, of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, and Counselor
D. H. Wells, Patriarch John Smith, and Prest. A.
M. Cannon, of the Salt Lake Stake, also Patri-
archs Lorenzo D. Young and Joseph B. Noble.
On the third stand of the Seven Presidents of
Seventies were Jacob Gates, Horace S. Eldredge,
Seymour B. Young and Abram H. Cannon. The
members of Prest. Taylor's family occupied the
seats immediately in front of the stand. Prest.
Angus M. Cannon conducted the services, first
reading the following letter of Prest. Taylor's, giv-
ing instructions regarding the manner in which
his funeral should be conducted:
	Salt Lake City,
		November 17th, 1873.
President B. Young:
	DEAR BROTHER—Being asked to give a writ-
ten account of the way I wish to be buried, I
present the following:
	I have no desire for any particular formula; but
I should wish my body to be washed clean; to be
clothed in clean white linen garments and robes,
with shoes, apron, cap. etc., to be laid in a coffin
sufficiently large to contain my body without pres-
sure.
	Should I die here, let me be buried in my own
lot in the graveyard. Let the coffin be neat and
comely, but plain and strong; made of cedar, or
redwood, or of our own mountain pine; if of the
latter, colored or stained, and placed in an outer
strong box, with a light cotton or woolen mattress
or bed, and convenient pillow for the head.

[Column 2]

	The services, such as prevail at the time among
the Saints. A plain slab may be placed over the
body, and a stone at the head and feet; on the
headstone to be given an account of my name, age
and birth, as shall suit the feelings of my family.
	Should I die in Jackson County, Mo., let the
above directions be carried out as far as practic-
able.	Respectfully, your brother,
			JOHN TAYLOR.
	The first hymn sung, was the one entitled, "The
Resurrection Day," the congregation joining with
the choir in singing, the solemn peal of the organ
together with the subdued voices filled the large
building with a sublime and subdued melody.
Prayer was offered by Bishop Millen Atwood.
The choir sang,
"Thou dost not weep, to weep alone;"
	The first speaker was Apostle Lorenzo Snow,
who in his opening remarks quoted from St. Paul's
Epistle to Timothy:
	For I am now ready to be offered, and the time
of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good
fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the
faith.
	His remarks were tender and comforting, and it
was noticable that he felt keenly the tie that had
been broken; and that the bereavement was deep-
ly felt by the brethren who had been so closely
associated with the one now departed.
	Apostle Franklin D. Richards in his address
reviewed some portions of the life and labors of
Pres. Taylor, expressing great interest and sin-
cere affection, and alluded in glowing terms to his
gifts and talents as a speaker, an author and a
leader, and exhorted the young, and especially his
sons and daughters, to imitate his noble and wise
examples and give heed to his instructions.
	Apostle Heber J. Grant made brief but eloquent
remarks, and also exhorted the sons and daught-
ers of Pres. Taylor to imitate his example and be
as courageous in advocating and defending the
cause of God as their father had been, that they
might meet him again and live with him eternally.
	President D. H. Wells said he agreed with the
Psalmist, who had said, "I shall be satisfied when
I arise in His likeness." He referred to the light
and redemption brought into the world through
the Lord Jesus Christ, for the benefit of the whole
human family; spoke of the illustrious character
and example of Pres. Taylor and his unflinching
integrity to the truth, and exhorted his family, his
brethren, and all Israel to do likewise.
	President A. O. Smoot said he had been ac-
quainted with Pres. Taylor nearly forty nine
years, knew him first as a distinguished and suc-
cessful missionary, then in the troubles of Mis-
souri as an Apostle of Jesus Christ, afterwards as
a journalist and an editor, always faithful, always
unflinching; never under any circumstances mur-
muring or complaining. Like the other brethren
who preceded him he also said he had come to
mourn with those who mourned, and yet, in real-
ity, there was occasion to rejoice as well as mourn.
	Patriarch Lorenzo D. Young followed with a
few consoling words, evidently much affected.
	Patriarch Joseph Bates Noble made some ex-
cellent remarks, referring back to the early days
and experiences in the Church.
	President Angus M. Cannon delivered the clos-
ing address, describing graphically his view of
the reception given to President Taylor, when
the portals of heaven opened and he met with his
co-laborers who had gone before him, Joseph,
Hyrum, Joseph, the Patriarch, and father of the
Prophet, Don Carlos, Samuel, Heber, Brigham,
Willard, David Patten, Jedediah, George A. and
others. His love and affection for his uncle was
vividly portrayed in choice and expressive lan-
guage, and he earnestly exhorted the Church to
faith, righteousness and good works.
	The choir rendered the anthem,
		"Jerusalem, my glorious home."
	Patriarch John Smith closed the solemn servi-
ces with prayer.

[Column 3]

	The funeral cortege then formed and proceeded
to the cemetary. The pall bearers were twelve
sons of the President. Six bands of music played
alternately during the time the procession wended
its way to the last resting place of the deceased.
At the grave a selected choir sang that glorious
hymn,
"O my Father, thou that dwellest."
	The grave and surrounding ground was dedi-
cated in prayer by Elder Richard Ballantyne.
This concluded the impressive ceremonies of the
day. A remarkable quiet and a feeling of awe
prevailed throughout all the exercises, and the
manifestations of love, respect and esteem from
the assembled multitudes, told plainly how Zion
mourned her honored chieftain and leader.


