UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake, held June 27th
1887, Sister John presiding with Couuselor
Emily G. Cluff, Sisters Horne and Zina D. H.
Young also present. Conference opened by 
singing and prayer; reading of minutes of
former conference etc.
	Sister John felt pleased that we had Sisters
Young and Horne with us who are able to edify
and instruct us. We live in a momentous
age but the Lord is with his people etc.
	Sister Emily G. Cluff said, we have a great
deal to encourage, bless and oomfort us as a
people. I am pleased to have the sisters with
us to day, and we ought to strive to attend
these meetings. If we try we can so order our
work that we can gain time to attend meeting
and will be blessed in so doing.
	Sister Zina Young was very thankful to
meet with us again; had not met with us since
many of our dear sisters have been called away
to work in a wider sphere of usefulness. Our
reports show that we are humble and willing
to work. We are weak but God is our helper.
The path is plain before us;  let us each watch
our own feet;  let us strive for the Spirit of God
for when we have His Spirit our senses are satis-
fied. We can receive through prayer great bless-
ings. Let us cultivate the spirit of meekness and
kindness and be saviors upon Mount Zion etc.
	Sister Horne said, it was some time since
she had met with the sisters in Provo. Thought
we were blessed in these meetings; we can build
and be built up and if we would be more
punctual in attending these meetings, we should
gain spiritual food; we each have our own


[Column 1]

agency, and can accept or reject our salvation.
I thank the Lord daily that I am connected
with the Relief Society. The teachers have all
important mission; they should have prayer
before starting on their rounds of visiting they
should counsel the sisters to attend their meet-
ings, and advise them to read the Church works,
etc. We must not judge others or talk about 
them; we must guard well our thoughts and 
actions, and if we are faithful the Lord will
pour out his blessings upon us; advised the
young sisters to be careful with whom they as-
sociated, and not countenance young men that
were addicted to bad habits, and try to put
down evil in every way etc.
	After singing conference adjourned till 2
p.m.
	Conference opened at 2 p.m. with singing 
and prayer. Presidents Smoot and Cluff were
present.
	Sister Horne spoke again for a short time;
said we are co-workers with our brethren. We
need the Spirit of God to guide us in what we
do, we cannot comprehend the magnitude of
God's work; spoke of rendering honor to whom
honor is due, and each one working in her
own place and sphere. We shall be judged by
our own deeds etc. The Lord has complained
of our pride, our selfishness and selfwill and
said if we did not repent we should be
punished. The Lord suffers us to be perse-
cuted that we may be brought to remember
Him. We must keep our lamps trimmed and 
burning. Mothers set good examples before 
your children; teach them to be obedient; keep
them at home nights etc.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young desired the faith
and prayers of the sisters, the teachings that
we have had are food for the soul.
	Sister Horne has remarked on the time that
we should be classified; we cannot be promis-
cuous in our associations. Spoke of the evil
of Sabbath-breaking; and said the Lord was not
well pleased with us on that account; it takes
constant care to raise our children aright; culti-
vate faith in them, when we have enough faith
the Lord will come; spoke of the evil of letting
our children go to outside schools, make home
happy; never indulge in a fault-finding spirit,
and never forget your prayers;  spoke also in the
interest of the Silk Association, and advised the
sisters to persevere in raising cocoons, etc.
	Prest. Smoot spoke a short time;  felt that we
had had a feast of good teachings. Spoke of
our being in bondage to Babyon, in having to
get almost everything that we have from that
source. Said, "I hate bondage, when it can be
avoided. We can stand persecution for the
Gospel's sake, but not for vanity or pride. Let
the adornment of your bodies be the work of
your own hands," etc.
	Prest. Cluff followed with a few remarks,
calculated to encourage the sisters in good
works.
	Sister John felt that we had been amply
paid in coming to meeting. Said, "After sing-
ing we will adjourn for three months." Choir
sang, "Praise God, from whom all blessings
flow," etc.  Benediction by Prest A. O. Smoot.
