OUR TWENTY-FOURTH.

July has given to us two days to be
Remembered with deep love and joy
And gratitude by all true hearts;
The first, this mighty Nation's natal day,
The glorious Fourth, which millions
Join to celebrate, and sing the songs of Liberty.

	The other day is ours alone,
The Day when first a band of weary,
Footsore Pilgrim pioneers were gladdened
By the sight of Utah's vales, the chambers
Of the Mountains of the Lord—
Forty long years ago, our own dear
Twenty-fourth!

	'Tis well to-day to backward
Gaze, and trace the links in the
Great chain that leads us to the
Present. The Theme is wide, and
Deep, and vast, and we can only
Point you to a few, but you can
Read from out that mighty book.
That holds the Past, the Present and
The Future. And it were well for all
To read and study faithfully.

	In a deep forest. 'neath the blue
Vault of heaven, behold on bended
Knee a boy, fair haired and young,
With hand uplifted pleading unto
God, to know the better way,
Even the way of life eternal, out
Of the mists and darkness that
O'erspread the land.
'Twas thus he prayed: "Father, Thou
Hast said, 'If any lack for wisdom
Let him ask of me who giveth liberally
And upbraideth not, and it shall be
Given him.' I crave that promise now."
The answer came; two heavenly
Beings stood before him, and
God the Father, poining to the Son,
Said, "Hear ye Him."
	
	Then was a heavenly vision opened
To his view, the path he sought made plan.

	Again behold a little band still
In the forest wilds, met to reorganize
Christ's Church on earth. See how
From there the word of God went forth
Unto the starving multitudes, famishing
For the pure bread of life. Read from
The pages of this past, how the spirit of
Elijah rested upon them and as an
Eagle's wings they came flocking from
Afar, to listen to the Prophet's voice,
A Prophet taught of God, the Father, and
The Son, of Peter, James and John, Moroni
And Elijah, What wonder that his
Words more precious were than gold—
That rapidly he grew in wisdom and in
Knowledge far, far beyond his years.

	Behold, as fruit of Gospel seed, fair towns
And cities into being spring as if by magic,
And love and joy and deep thanksgiving
Dwell therein. And still the work
Rolls on, although each step has been
Opposed by Satan's hosts, and loud,
Deep threats of violence we heard,
And mobs arose driving the Saints from
Lands their sires had died to gain.

	But hark! what means that bitter wail of
Anguish, that sudden thrill of pain
That makes the stoutest heart stand
Still? And as did Jesus cry, "My God,
My God, hast thou forsaken us!"
Turn thou to Carthage Jail and then
Behold our Patriarch and Prophet slain;
Sealing their testimony with their blood.
Did the great work die with them? No!

[Column 2]

The Gospel truths they taught found 
Place in many hearts, the Twelve
Stepped forth to bear the Kingdom on,
With Joseph's mantle resting on our
Brigham Young.

	Nauvoo, Queen of the West, had
Reared her temple grand, and there
More Keys and powers were given—
While smiling plenty filled the land,
And still the work rolls on.
Again there comes a cry from baffled
Foemen, who had said if we but
Slay the Leaders, then the work will cease.
Listen now unto the Mandate, oh ye
Heavens and spirits of our Pilgrim fathers:
"Deny your God! Go out into the wilderness or die,
For we will wipe you out with sword and fire!"
Did they then falter? No, for Brigham's 
Voice was heard, "Unto your tents, oh
Israel, we'll seek that home
'Mid the rocky wilds, and savage tribes
Denied us here in free
America."
Swiftly they turn them from their
Happy homes; and even now the foe rush
In impatience for the prey—
Now from afar they turn to take a
Last long look—when from the Temple
Dome burst forth fierce fire and smoke
Ascending up to heaven; and stricken
Do they gaze on this another sacrifice.
We cannot follow in their footsteps over
The trackless deserts, nor pause beside the
Graves of those laid down to rest by the
Lone wayside. They found the Heaven
Sought, their feet were firmly planted
There, the desert places changed to
Smiling fields of grain, of fruits and flowers.
Far to the East to West the North and South,
Thousands have borne to nations far
The Gospel truths, and thousands have
Been added to the Fold.

	This is the fortieth year for Zion
In the wilderness. Mark it, ye wise
Men of the Nation; think of the
Doom of Pharaoh and his hosts who
Dared to fight against Jehovah's
Power, and wisdom learn, that
Ye may save this nation from a
Fate as dark as that which humbled
In the dust proud Egypt
And her Kings.
Think of it, ye Saints, for it is
Near the time when Israel
Will be numbered, and Christ
Will claim his own, the
Pure in heart.		HOPE.


[Column 1]

