WHAT OF THE OPPOSITE ELEMENT.

	Is it possible that our enemies are not satisfied
now since they think we are whipped into submis-
sion, as it is apparent to-day? But you ask, why
call them enemies? Well, they are displeased
with us under all circumstances, because we have
received the heavenly message, and they will not
receive it. We are ridiculed and are disgraceful
in their eyes.
	It is written that the Lord made of one blood all
the nations of the earth. Accordingly they are as
responsible how they treat this message as we are.
Do they lack good common sense? No, perhaps
they are so well satisfied with this world, that they
have no time to think of another.
	Those who give their attention to the doctrines
of Jesus Christ and His Apostles, will see that
they all showed, by precept and example, that re-
spect for the higher powers, which was their due.
	In Romans thirteenth chapter St. Paul says:
"Let every soul be subject to the higher powers.

[Column 2]

For there is no power but of God: the powers
that be, are ordained of God." Believing as we
do, that St. Paul spoke these words by inspiration
of the Holy Spirit, we should not pass them by
unnoticed, but give heed to the same, which we
are doing at the present time. But we remember
also the words spoken by the Prophet Joseph, in
Nauvoo, Jan. 29th, 1841, recorded in Doctrine and
Covenants Sec. 124, v. 49 and 50:
	"Verily, verily I say unto you, that when I give
a commandment to any of the sons of men, to do a
work unto my name, and those sons of men go
with all their might, and with all they have, to per-
form that work, and cease not their diligence, and
their enemies come upon them, and hinder them
from performing that work; behold, it behooveth
me to require that work no more at the hands of
those sons of men, but to accept of their offerings.
And the iniquity and transgression of my holy
laws and commandments, I will visit upon the
heads of those who hindered my work, unto the
third and fourth generation, so long as they re-
pent not, and hate me, saith the Lord God."
	Looking at this subject in the light of reason
and common sense, we would ask: are not all the
human family children of God, our Father, and
accountable to Him how His commands are
obeyed and kept? St. Peter, in Acts second chap-
ter 13th verse, says: "Submit yourselves to every
ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it
be to the king as supreme, or unto governors, as
unto them that are sent by him for the punish-
ment of evil doers, and for the praise of them that
do well." Our Lord and Savior also was subject,
as we learn from the New Testament; yet He
sometimes escaped their hands and got out of
their way for a season, until His work was ac-
complished. Yet, He always showed respect to
the higher powers, even until death, when He
cried out: "Father, forgive them, they know not
what they do."
	And why are we whipped into submission? Do
we always know what spirit we are of, while we
are engaged in this important work—this latterday
work? I know that the good and bad spirit does
not inhabit our tabernacles at the same time. Yet,
the bad one is ever at our elbow, to suggest some-
thing about this work, when he can not hinder
us in the performance of it. When we listen it 
is to our disadvantage every time. It is important
that we should know the difference in the two
spirits. Yes, that we have the discernment of
spirits; for our Great Head is not pleased with
anything short of strict obedience to His laws.
His work can not be accomplished in any other
way; although He has been very merciful to our
inexperience, while we were learning these les-
sons. But now it is time we knew them, for
we surely deserve a chastisement if we have not
learned. Let us acknowledge His hand in it, and
awaken to our duty. How has it been in rearing
large families? Were we always in posession of
the good spirit? Did we ever chastise in anger?
If so, it did the child no good. Were we not
grasping for the things of this life more than for
the riches of eternity? If so, we must be losers,
yet, we can profit by the lesson, which is an im-
portant one; because by it we become more ac-
quainted with ourselves and the need we have of
living nearer to God, and seeking diligently for
His Spirit to guide and direct us continually in
the performance of His work, for no other spirit
will suffice. We must learn the two spirits and
how to treat each one as they deserve.
	It is written that judgment will begin at the
house of God. We must purify ourselves to be
acceptable to Him. Does our Heavenly Father
chastise in severity? No, I think not; but He
allows the tempter to do it at times; and he de-
lights to whip those who will not listen and obey
his laws, and he requires as strict obedience of
his subjects as the Lord does. How could he ac-
complish his designs without it?

[Column 3]

	It is only a few days since I heard two gentle-
men converse. One of them said: "You will find
in a short time such a rush of Gentiles here that
your people will all be won over to the other
side." "Well," replied the other, "why not turn
the other way, and adhere to our side of the ques-
tion?" "No," he replied, "the world are not re-
ligious." How true, thought I. Yet a portion of
the human family always admire the works of an
allwise Parent, and long to know something more
of His character; and by studying the records of
those of similar character, they feel benefited by
the same. The Lord knows who they are, and
gives a portion of His Spirit to such. This Spirit
will show them things to come, and bring things
to their remembrance, making every effort in life
successful, which would be for their best good.
	Our Savior knew this when He said, "Except
ye are one, ye are not mine." This Spirit makes
them one in mind and feeling. It is like a pair of
good eye glasses, it enables us to see things in
their own true light.
	May we always be worthy to retain this Spirit,
is the sincere desire of
	M. E. KIMBALL.
Salt Lake City, Aug. 3rd, 1887.


