EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Lord has said He remembereth the isles
of the sea, and while we find great consolation
in His words, we do not wish to be forgotten
by our co-laborers in Zion, who are probably
not aware of the good work being done by the
native sisters of these islands. Hoping, there-
fore, that a few items in regard to the Relief
Society of this mission may be of interest to
your many readers, I subscribe the following,
trusting that you will bear in mind the char-
acter and class of people among whom we la-
bor.
	On this island, Oahu, there are four large
branches of the Relief Society, among whom I
have been laboring since our last April Con-
ference, endeavoring, as much as my know-
ledge of the language would permit, to ex-
hort them to obedience in observing the coun-
sel given by the servants of the Lord, and in
becoming live laborers in the building up of
His Kingdom here upon the earth. They are
an excitable people, and can be easily stirred
to life and energy, and just as soon sink into
indolence and evil if left to themselves. Since
our conference the four Societies of this island
have donated $124 for the Temple, mission

[Column 2]

fund, tithing, and the erecting of a new taber-
nacle in the Capital city, Honolulu; and more
will be received before our next conference.
	On the 18th of last month we held a joint
meeting at this place, a goodly number from
other branches being present, to report their
labors and receive instructions from the ser-
vants of God. To show with what interest
and faith they gathered to the meeting, I have
but to say that some of the old sisters, who
were not supplied with horses, walked nearly
all the way from Honolulu to the place, a dis-
tance of 32 miles. Yet they felt to rejoice in
traveling in the interest of the work of God.
In order to extend the work of exhortation to
all the branches of the Society on the other
islands, we sent out missionary sisters to per-
form that labor. After the close of the meet-
ing we invited the officers of this Society, the
visitors and the old sisters to take supper at
the mission house in haole (white) style. It
propably being the first supper of the kind
that many of them had ever attended; it called
forth much gratitude on their part and much
amusement on ours, as I presume it was the
first time that some of them had ever tried to
eat with a knife and fork. Spread before them
on the large dining room table of the mission
house, was a young boiled pig, a large roast of
beef, soup, Dutch cheese, buns, fried cakes,
pies, and white and brown bread. There was
no poi, their staff of life, as at present there is
a famine for that article. Had this been spread
on a mat on the floor, with no knives and forks,
leaving the fingers to convey both meat and
soup to the mouth, all would have felt at home,
but seated around a table and supplied with
the necessary implements of a feast, placed
many of them in an awkward position, and
when our attention was drawn away, many a
finger slipped into the meat and soup dishes,
and many a fried cake was concealed in the
pocket, to provide for future need, this being
an ancient custom of the natives. After sup-
per they returned with new energy for the
work of the Lord, and "full of good spirit,"
as they say.
	On the 9th inst., a Hawaiian feast was given
in celebration of the organization of this So-
ciety, in which a good time was enjoyed. A
liberal donation followed the meeting, but I will
forbear lengthening my letter at present. The
Societies are at present in a lively condition,
and are doing as good as can be expected of
them. The Hawaiian sisters have good ability
in many things. Their making of quilts, straw
hats, mats, etc., is very praiseworthy. We are
striving to fulfill our mission honorably here
among this people, and to this end put our de-
pendence in our Heavenly Father, and we trust
the prayers of our sisters in Zion will avail us
much, while we are all laboring to the same
great and grand end.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		LIBBIE NOALL.
Laie, Oahu, July 15, 1887.


Learn from the earliest days to inure your
principles against the perils of ridicule; you
can no more exercise your reason if you live
in the constant dread of laughter than you
can enjoy your life if yon are in constant ter-
ror of death.
	The first step in debt is like the first step in
falsehood, almost involving the necessity of
proceeding in the same course, debt following
debt as lie follows lie. Hayden, the painter,
dated his decline from the day on which he
first borrowed money.—Samuel Smiles.
	Education should be regarded as capital in-
vested for the future, from which a profit may
be derived in subsequent life. It pays an an-
nual income without expense for insurance, re-
pairs or taxes. A good education is a more
lasting resource than riches.—Horace Mann.


