As silence gently settles 'round Happy thoughts possess you, Touch your heart with love Because they are of two, SEASONAL RECIPES By Lucy Rose Middleton Thanksgiving is strictly an American holiday. We are all familiar with the school book pictures of Pilgrims with their invited Indian guests enjoying this bounteous festival. Conspicuous among the foods depicted in such pictures are those indigenous to America, such as Indian corn and roasted wild turkey. These must have seemed strange and wonderful indeed to transplanted Europeans. The pumpkin and the potato were also unknown until after the discovery of the New World. The foods chosen for Thanksgiving dinner may well be predominantly American. Among prepared dishes, we have original claims to the shallow pie, although its inspiration may have been the English deep fruit pie with just the top crust. Parker House rolls, which figure in our menu, take their name from the Parker House, a famous old hotel of Boston. Menu Cranberry Frappe Relishes Roast Turkey Cinnamon Apples Dressing Salad Potatoes Parker House Rolls Buttered Corn Pumpkin Cream Pie. Cranberry Frappe 1 quart cranberries 2 cups water 2 cups sugar Juice of 2 lemons Cook cranberries and water for 8 minutes; then force through a sieve. Add sugar and lemon juice. Freeze. (Frappes are frozen to a mush using equal parts of ice and salt.) Roast Turkey Dress, clean, stuff, and truss. Place on its side on a rack in dripping pan, rub entire surface with salt, and spread breast, legs, and wings with 1/3 cup butter, rubbed until creamy and mixed with 1/4 cup flour. Dredge bottom of pan with flour. Place in hot oven (450 degrees). When flour on turkey begins to brown, reduce heat to (350 degrees). Baste every 15 minutes until turkey is cooked (about 3 hours). For basting use 1/4 cup butter melted in 1/4 cup boiling water and after this is used, baste with the fat in the pan. Pour water in pan as needed. To prevent flour from burning. During cooking, turn turkey frequently, that it may brown evenly. If turkey is browning too fast, cover with a thick flour and water paste. Remove strings and skewers before serving. Garnish with parsley, or celery tips, or curled celery. Allow 8 cups stuffing for a 10 pound turkey. Stuffing 1 cup stale bread crumbs 1/4 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup butter 1/8 teaspoon pepper 1 tablespoon chopped parsley Onion juice 1/4 cup hot water Sage Mix ingredients lightly with a fork. Season to taste. One cup of oysters may be added to this recipe and 1 1/2 tablespoons lemon juice if desired. 690 Cinnamon Apples 6 small apples 2 tablespoons 6 cloves cinnamon drops 1 cup sugar 1 1/2 cups water Core and pare apples. Stick with the cloves. Cook sugar, water and cinnamon drops 5 minutes. Add apples and cook very slowly until tender, baste often with syrup in pan. Serve with meat. Salad Use romaine, endive, or lettuce with the Roquefort Cheese Dressing. Roquefort Cheese Dressing 2 tablespoons Mayonnaise 2 tablespoons Roquefort cheese broken into small pieces. 1/4 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce. 1/4 cup French Dressing. Mix mayonnaise and cheese and add French Dressing very slowly; then add Worcestershire Sauce. Cream cheese or cream cheese with roquefort flavoring may be used instead of the roquefort. (The recipe for French Dressing was given in the October magazine. ) Parker House Rolls 2 cups scalded milk 3 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons sugar 2 teaspoons salt 1 yeast cake dissolved in 1/4 cup lukewarm water Flour (about 5 1/2 cups). Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk. When lukewarm, add dissolved yeast cake and 3 cups flour. Beat thoroughly, cover and let rise until light. Cut down (an egg may be added to this mixture if desired ) and add enough flour to knead RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (about 2 1/2 cups). Let rise until double in bulk, and toss on slightly floured board. Knead. Roll out 1/4 inch thick, cut and brush over lightly with melted butter, crease through center heavily with the dull edge of knife and fold over. Place in well greased pans one inch apart. Cover and let rise until light, about 3/4 hour. Bake 15-20 minutes in 400 degrees oven. This recipe will make about four dozen rolls. Pumpkin Pie 1 1/2 cups cooked and strained pumpkin 1/2 cup sugar 2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons molasses 1 1/4 cups scalded milk 1/4 teaspoon ginger 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon vanilla 2 eggs Add sugar, butter, molasses, spices and flavoring to pumpkin. Add egg yolks slightly beaten. Add milk and mix together. Fold in stiffly beaten whites of eggs. Bake in one crust. When cool cover top of pie with a layer of whipped cream. Plain Pastry 1 1/2 cups flour 1/3-1/2 cup lard or other shortening 1/2 teaspoon salt Ice water Mix salt with flour, then work lard in, using finger tips, case knife or pastry mixer. Moisten to a dough with water and toss on a slightly floured board, dredge with a small amount of flour, pat, and roll out, keeping the dough as circular in form as possible. Line pie tin, then fill. Natural GAS THE IDEAL FUEL Fast?Clean?Dependable?Automatic Many thousands of housewives today are doing their own work. If you are one of these thrifty home managers you need equipment in your home to make your tasks as easy as possible. You need to shorten the hours of kitchen work?to free yourself for recreation, or other household duties. Visit our display rooms and see for yourself the exceptional offers we are making on Natural Gas Appliances. Inquire about our rental plan on new efficient Conversion Burners for your present heating plant. Phone us for any and all information regarding your heating problems. No obligation on your part. BLUE BLAZE ARABIA COAL CO UTAH GAS AND COKE CO. Phone Was. 1300 SALT LAKE CITY Order From Your Local OGDEN GAS COMPANY Dealer Phone 174 Here is YOUR OPPORTUNITY You can have a Hotpoint or Westinghouse Electric Range?a General Electric Refrigerator and an Electric Water Heater, or any of these appliances in your home for a small down payment and the balance on easy monthly terms. THERE IS NO SUBSTITUTE FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE Drop into our store or phone us for complete information. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS LOUISE INGRAM 304 SO 1ST W BRIGHAM CITY UTAH YOURS As You Wish It? When You Wish It. There is no delay, no waiting for returns on your life insurance investments. Always Payable "Right Now." Investments in Beneficial Life Insurance stand firm and steady through the winds of present day readjustments. Basically sound,?conservative, solidly built, and efficiently managed. This company stands today a tower of financial strength. Enjoying first place in public confidence. THOUSANDS OF PLEASED POLICYHOLDERS AND WHY NOT? ALL BENEFICIAL POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS OF THE BIG HOME COMPANY BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO Home Office?Salt Lake City If it's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine HEBER J. GRANT, President. E. T. RALPHS, General Manager RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE