Importance of Good Nutrition During the Present Period of Depression
By Jean Cox
THE problem of feeding the family is important as well as interesting. The greater the interest given to nutritive value and costs of foods the more interesting the problem becomes. This is generally true of principles in art and science, the better the student the more zealous he becomes for additional information. While the problem of feeding the family is scientific in the main, it is also true that attention to art principles contributes to the success of the job of feeding the family.
During the present low income period, the housewife has a responsibility which she should try to face squarely and smilingly. The present financial depression has in many instances changed the food habits of a family. Favorite dishes have necessarily become eliminated. In many cases food aversions have been overcome. Frequently food selection and preparation have been given more than usual attention in an attempt to give variety and palatability to a more limited selection of foods. Fortunate is the family where the housewife has risen to the occasion and made family nutrition one of her major interests.
Every intelligent parent is anxious that children be healthy, robust, well nourished, and "brim full of good humor." To the connoisseur of children there is nothing more beautiful than a healthy child. The malnourished child conveys the same impression to the connoisseur as does the nubbin of corn to the farmer or an undersized gnarly pear or apple to the fruit grower.
DURING the present period of economic instability it is especially important that every effort be made to maintain the health of the family on low priced diets. The comforting thing is that this can be done, providing a sufficient amount of low priced foods is available. Prices of foods do not always indicate value. Highly milled flours for example are less valuable from the standpoint of nutrition than whole grain flours. Very rich milk is not proportionately more valuable at 25 per cent increase in cost than milk of standard proportion of cream. Skimmed milk has proportionately more food value than its cost. Out of season vegetables and fruits might also be cited as worthwhile examples of discrepancies between food values and costs.
Unless care is exercised in the selection and preparation of either high or low priced foods, they may not meet nutritional requirements in either quantity of food or variety. Body building processes cannot proceed if the nutritional elements are lacking. Suitable building stones supplied from foods for teeth, bones, nervous system, and muscle are just as necessary as building materials for houses. If these are lacking in kind and amount, the human structure will be comparable to a building having some straw bricks.
The many careful investigators in the field of nutrition have made
642
real contributions in the field of health. Recent studies give additional emphasis upon Vitamin B complex or Vitamins B and G. Shortage of Vitamin B shows conclusively that it is a factor in limiting the growth of American school children. The present type of low priced diet, makes consideration of this important. Insufficient amounts of Vitamin B are more serious with children than with adults as children are low in tissue storing capacity which takes care of temporary shortages of Vitamin B.
VITAMIN B like Vitamin A is essential for growth. Vitamin B is also essential for appetite. Diets low in Vitamin B have an immediate and pronounced effect upon appetite and digestion so that food is generally refused and if eaten stays in the digestive tract a long time. If Vitamin B is to be effective in the diet it must be in the food as we eat it. Vitamin B is soluble in water and where the cooking water of vegetables is thrown away much of the food value of the food is lost.
In a list of 30 foods prepared by Dr. Mary Schwartz Rose, the seven highest in Vitamin B are listed in order of amount of Vitamin B. These are turnip greens, fresh spinach, green peas, lettuce, cabbage, fresh string beans, and dried beans. Fruits high in Vitamin B are citrus fruits, peaches, apples. In meats the highest sources of Vitamin B are the glandular organs, liver, kidney, and brains. Eggs are also a valuable source.
It is important to realize that Vitamin B is a dietary essential, and therefore that care must be taken to see that more than enough of this factor is supplied at all times. A discussion of the value of Vitamin B would be incomplete without
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
special emphasis upon the importance of whole grains. Several studies have recently been made upon the dietary importance of the wheat germ. Some rather recent studies under the direction of Dr. Rose of Columbia has shown the dietary value of bran. Both Drs. Mendell and Rose emphasize the importance of whole grains in diets for children. Although Vitamin B, the appetite Vitamin, is widely distributed, some families endanger their health through faulty food habits and use sparingly of milk, whole grains, vegetables and fruits. This would be avoided if diet of every child should contain three vegetables other than potatoes and three fruits, or three servings of the same fruit, two servings of whole grain in addition to other foods generally included in the child's diet.
VITAMIN G which is named from a fraction of Vitamin B is called the youth lengthening Vitamin. It is widely distributed in tomatoes, spinach, beans, peas, eggs, yeast, kidneys, and various glandular tissues. From the variety of foods in which Vitamins are formed, it seems obvious that the average individual might be supplied with all of these necessary nutrients in a balanced diet which is defined by Sherman as a temperate selection of a wide variety of foods.
IN carefully planned diets, emphasis is also given to the importance of Vitamin C. Chief sources of this important Vitamin are citrus fruits, green leaf vegetables, and tomatoes. These are used interchangeably by dietitians. In the average low cost diet, tomatoes are more easily obtained than oranges. Custom has made generous use of toIMPORTANCE OF GOOD NUTRITION
matoes very good form. Tomato juice for first course at breakfast is becoming common practice. This same juice chilled with a little seasoning becomes a cocktail for either luncheon or dinner. At any time, it is an appetizer and a health giving food. How it is served is less important than that it be used generously to give protection not only for Vitamin C but also for A, B, and G.
Dangers from inadequate amounts of Vitamin A and calcium are two important points for consideration in any nutrition program. Diets having little butter or animal fats, whole milk, and leafy vegetables are apt to be deficient in Vitamin A. Lack of this decreases resistance and the person is apt to contract infection which leads to diseases of the air passages, lungs, skin, and bladder. Vitamin A is also necessary for tooth development. It is one factor which prolongs length of life.
An adequate supply of calcium is also important for tooth and bone development. Calcium requirement will be largely met, however, if both children and adults use the usual quart and pint of milk daily in addition to whole cereals, beans and green leafy vegetables.
THE success of a program in good nutrition for the family is less difficult to accomplish if all members have interest and desire to participate. Briefly the fundamental daily requirements are:
One quart of milk for children, at least one pint for adults.
Vegetables, at least two besides potatoes. A green leafy vegetable at least four or five times a week.
Potatoes once a day, oftener if desired.
Fruits, two servings. One of
643
which may be fresh and uncooked. More may be used.
Cereal products, cereal breakfast foods and breadstuffs. Use a whole cereal product in some form at least twice a day.
Meat, eggs, fish, poultry, cheese or beans at least once a day.
Butter, lards, oils, drippings, other fats.
Sugar and other sweets. In small amounts.
Where income is lower than absolute safety demands, the housewife has a greater than usual responsibility to select and prepare foods which meet nutritive requirements of different members of the family. To do this satisfactorily, variety of flavor, texture, combinations and appearance will have to be considered. To increase consumption and maintain health, whole cereals must be prepared in new ways. Common vegetables also must be served so they will seem different. Meat flavors must be extended with varied combinations of vegetables and cereals. Increased attention is needed in food selection, low cost foods such as whole cereal preparations, root vegetables, inexpensive meats, and fruits and dried beans and peas must be used where attention must be given to "penny dishes."
The conscientious housewife limited by a low income, anxious over the welfare of her family has a real problem in selecting, preparing, and combining foods which will make low priced diet palatable, well balanced and attractive. The following daily menu may be suggestive:
Breakfast? Apples Cereal (Whole grain) Toast Milk Butter
Lunch? Boiled Beans Cold Slaw Whole Wheat bread Plum Jam Rice Pudding
Dinner? Vegetable soup and dumplings Bread and butter Fruit salad Graham cookies Milk
MAINTAINING an adequate diet and decreasing the expenditure decreases the housewife's responsibility to try to include variety. It is suggested that the expenditure of food be doubled, and that more money be spent for fats and also for food adjuncts. Both of these help to stimulate interest in variety, preparation, and consumption of the same food.
In order to have variety of flavor as well as to improve the nutrition of the family, it is hoped that every home maker will plant lettuce and cress for early Spring use and that she should stress the importance during the present period as it guards against poor health.