When the Test Comes
By Mansel H. Nelson
JOHN RICHARDS stood on the corner wondering which way to go. There had been a mighty fight going on within him ever since he had left home as to which way he would turn when he reached that corner, and it didn't seem any nearer settled now than it had been when he started. One way led to the grocery store, the other to the Bishop's office. Again he looked at the money that he held in his hand. This five dollar bill he had been saving to pay as tithing. The money really did belong to the Lord, but it was all that stood between him and starvation.
His thoughts raced back to his loved ones, and to the humble little home that he had tried to provide for them. He remembered about Mary saying that there was only enough flour left for one more batch of bread, and that they had scarcely anything else in the house to eat. He was also reminded that he had been a mighty poor provider for the last few months, and that Mary and the two small children had not had what they really needed to eat lately, and that they were wearing clothes that were almost entirely covered with patches.
Each thought came before him as a ghastly haunting mockery of the fact that he had always paid his tithing, and yet what were the results? He had failed to find work, and it seemed that everything had turned against him the last few months. Just the other day Mary had told him that she was going back to her parents unless things took a change. They would help her until she could find work, she had said. Then his thoughts ran on back to the time when her father and mother had advised her to wait awhile before getting married, until he could provide a better home and have a more certain income. But they had been young and foolish then, and had married?and now she was losing confidence in him?thinking of going back to her parents who had already made very severe remarks as to his failure to provide for her.
For several minutes he hesitated. The fight raged within him. One voice seemed to cry out for mercy for his family. Another voice kept saying: "That money is the Lord's, pay it to him and he will bless you with more." Still he hesitated! He tried to reason what was best to do. He knew that it was right for him to pay that money for tithing?but his babies were hungry! What could he do? He might pay his tithing and then go and ask for credit at the store?but he could not run a bill and not know how he could ever pay it.
Finally with a decisive shrug of his shoulders he turned toward the grocery store. That still small voice seemed to follow him. "Pay your tithing and you shall be blessed. Pay your tithing and you shall be blessed with more money," it seemed to say over and over again.
He had almost reached the grocery store when overcome again by the fight that had been going on
630
within his soul; he stopped again. For another two minutes he stood debating what he should do. Again all the haunting memories of the last few months came back to him. His imagination painted for him how lonely he would be without Mary and the kiddies. There wouldn't be much left in life if they were gone. Mary had always been such a true and loving pal. She had certainly done her part to make a happy home for them. There was some mystery about her going back on him at this time too. She had never appeared to be that kind of a girl before the last few weeks. She had always seemed to care for him very much, and he loved her as he did his own life?but one couldn't live on love alone. He didn't blame her much for wanting to go back and live in luxury when now at best she could only have a very humble home and very simple living.
Again he looked at the money. It would buy groceries for several days supply, and perhaps by that time he could find a few days work somewhere. And yet, how was he going to find work without God's help? And if he didn't pay his tithing maybe God wouldn't help him. Would He help him if he did pay his tithing? That was the question! Would God help him find work if he did pay his tithing?
Suddenly he remembered something that one of the Apostles had said in the last conference: "If you don't believe that the Lord will do what He says He will do, try Him once and see for yourself. That is the way to find out."
"I'll do it!" he exclaimed, and with a firm determination to "see for himself" he turned around and went to the Bishop's office.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"I have come to pay some tithing that I have been saving for quite a long time," he said as he laid the money on the bishop's desk.
"That is good," said the Bishop. "I wish that all the members of our church were as good tithe-payers as you are."
"Well, I always try to pay my tithing," John mumbled. Again he was thinking of his loved ones, and how badly they needed food and clothes that very minute. He realized that if he would tell his troubles to the Bishop that he would get help at once. But his pride rebelled. He simply could not ask for charity.
"Have you had any work lately, John?" asked the Bishop as he handed him the receipt.
"No, I haven't. Not for quite awhile. That is money I had laid aside for tithing some time ago, and had just neglected to bring it in," he explained.
"Is there anything that I can do for you, John?"
"Not unless you can tell me where I can get a job," John replied.
"I can't right now, but I will remember you. If I hear of anything I'll let you know right away."
"I'd appreciate it if you would, Bishop. Good-bye."
"Good-bye, John. I am sure that something will turn up pretty soon, because the Lord has promised to bless those who obey the law of tithing; and if anybody ever did pay an honest tithe, I am sure that you do, John. So cheer up, old man, everything will turn out all right."
It was with a lighter heart, and a more hopeful spirit that John turned toward home. He was glad that he had paid his tithing. On his way home the Bishop's words kept
WHEN THE TEST COMES
repeating in his mind. He would tell Mary what the Bishop had said and he was sure that it would cheer her up a little. He felt also that tomorrow he was sure to find work.
But as he neared his little home a sense of depression came over him. He wondered if Mary would still be there. He wondered if something had happened to one of the children. There was something wrong?that he knew without a doubt. The last block he almost ran. He hurried up the walk and into the house. Nobody was in sight. Through room after room he ran, and then out into the back yard?but all in vain. As he reentered the house he noticed a piece of paper fall from the table, and immediately picked it up. These are the words that he read:
"John: "Father came by this afternoon, so I am going back with him. I am very sorry, but I just can't stand this any longer. "Mary."
John rubbed his eyes and read it again. Not even a trace of love. No mention of ever coming back. Not a word of hope did it leave for him. John stood as a man in a dream. Then it really had happened! He staggered to the front door and looked out, hopelessly. He turned and dropped into a chair, and there for the first time since he was a child John Richards' whole soul was shaken with bitter sobs.
Hour after hour John sat there with his head buried in his hands. Bent with sorrow, and broken with grief, he seemed to have no sense of the passing time. He could have been paralyzed for all the movement that he made. After a while, when he did finally raise his head
631
the clock on the mantle had long since struck two. He dragged himself from the chair into the lonely bedroom, and dropped down on the bed without undressing. He lay there thinking?worrying?wondering. What was Mary doing? Were the babies all right? Was she really safe and sound in her father's home, or had she gone off somewhere else? Could he ever bring her back to him?
And then again he thought of what the Bishop had said. After all things might not be nearly so bad as they appeared to be on the surface. Mary would probably be back in the morning, and feel much better after her visit. And maybe tomorrow he could find work. He felt sure that something would turn up tomorrow.
But just as he was about to become reconciled to the fact that everything was going to be all right when morning came, doubt began to creep into his mind. It seemed to spread through his soul like a slow, deadly poison. At first he paid little attention to it; but as he sat thinking, trying to reason things out, the evil seemed to grow. The longer he thought the more it grew until there was scarcely anything left except doubt.
He began to figure how much money he had paid for tithing. It amounted to several hundred dollars since he had been married. Enough, if he had it all back now, so that Mary would have had no cause for leaving.
"Just think," a silent voice of doubt was saying, "out of every thousand dollars that you have made you have given one hundred dollars away. One hundred dollars is a lot of money. You have given away many hundred dollars, and what have you received in return for it? Nothing! Absolutely nothing! Why, if you had all the money back that you have thrown away like that just think what you could do with it right now! There would be clothes for the children, and for Mary, plenty of food in the house, and a nice fat purse to go on. But as it is, you have nothing. Even those who have loved you so dearly have turned against you."
He groaned as he arose and started to walk back and forth across the floor as some wild animal that had suddenly found himself trapped in his own den. As he continued to pace the floor his mind became dulled with agony, and he began to count the pictures on the wall, the number of steps across the room, the boards in the floor. Occasionally he would change the routine by pausing to stare out the window as a doomed man watching for the light to come on the day of his execution.
When morning finally did come John washed his face and hands, and then started out to look for work. He had several repair jobs promised, but every one seemed to be without money just at the time and so put him off. He even offered to work for less, but it was all in vain; it seemed as if carpenters were just out of luck. No one could afford to have any building done. Not a job was to be found. All day long he went from one prospective place to another, but no work was in sight. It was very discouraging indeed.
That night he returned to his deserted home; tired, exhausted, and broken in spirit and soul. He sat down in his favorite chair to rest. He missed Mary more than ever. He remembered how hard she worked all day, and then when he came home tired she would always welcome him with a good meal. Always the house would be found spotlessly clean. After the dishes had been cleared away she would come and read to him. Many good articles and stories they had enjoyed together. The harder he worked the more he enjoyed her sweet, low, voice, painting the beautiful word pictures from a magazine or book.
Tonight he was wondering just why he had not taken her to the Temple to be sealed to him forever. Perhaps if they had been married in the Temple things wouldn't have turned out as they had done.
He finally decided to call and see if Mary was at her parents, and was all right.
"515," he called.
"Hello, this is Mrs. Carter speaking," came the prompt reply.
"This is John," he explained. "I just called to see if Mary is all right."
"Yes, she is all right. She is staying with us for a while. She will at least have what she needs to eat here," she said, and jammed the receiver back into place.
John was not only hurt, but he was angry. "She didn't have to be so darned mean about it, anyway," he muttered to himself. Nevertheless it was some satisfaction to know that Mary was there with her parents and was comfortable; even if they did hate him. They were very selfish parents, he often thought. In the first place her father had not only been opposed to her marrying John, but also to her joining the church. Her father had never forgiven John, while her mother had been only a little more friendly toward him. They had always had plenty of money, and Mary being their only child was unprepared for the life
WHEN THE TEST COMES
that she had found with John.
All night long John sat with his head resting in his hands and suffered with shame, pain, and doubt. The whole night through the fight continued to rage within his soul. Two great powers seemed to be trying to tear him into pieces. One voice seemed to laugh at him in mockery for paying his last cent for a worthless donation, while the other power seemed to be saying: "You must pray. You must pray."
At last he fell upon his knees before the Lord and cried for help. He asked God to give him faith to bear the trials that had come upon him; to forgive him for his doubt, and to help him win Mary's love back.
After a half hour spent in prayer he arose and went to bed with a spirit of relief and comfort within his soul, and soon fell into a deep sleep.
He was awakened by the ringing of the telephone. When he jumped out of bed the sunshine was streaming in through the window, and he knew that he had slept very late.
"Hello," he said taking down the receiver.
"Hello," came the voice of a woman; "is this Mr. John Richards speaking?"
"Yes," he answered with a little disappointment for he had hoped that it was Mary calling to say that she was coming home to him.
"The County Attorney wants to see you here at his office as soon as possible."
"I'll be right down," he answered.
"I wonder if it is the County Attorney that wants to see me, or if it is the Bishop," John was saying to himself as he slipped on his clothes, and washed his face and hands. "Well, it won't take very long to find out, as long as they are
633
one and the same man," He concluded as he closed the front door.
When he arrived at the office the County Attorney was waiting for him. He turned to his secretary and said: "You may be excused until I call, and please tell any one that comes to see me that I am busy."
"Sit down, John," he said kindly. "I have some news for you."
"What is it?" John inquired anxiously. "I'll just take it standing, if you please."
"Well, it isn't much to stand for, John. I just ran onto a little work that I thought perhaps you would be interested in. It certainly isn't much, but I thought that if you were out of work it would be better than nothing."
"Yes, I should say," John answered with growing astonishment. "Why did he tell his secretary to not let anybody come in here for, if that was what he was going to tell him?"
"This isn't very much of a job for a man that usually works for seven or eight dollars a day; but it will keep a man alive at least. And if you want to, you could do your work and do this on the side," the Bishop continued. "It is just a job of janitor work that pays only seventy-five dollars a month. It would probably take you about three or four hours a day, morning and night together, to do the work."
"Why, that would be as much per hour as I usually work for," John replied. "And a lot more per month than I have been making the last few months. I would be glad to get that job. But isn't it a little high pay for janitor work? It seems to me that they could get somebody for less than that now-a-days."
"Yes, I suppose that they could. But Mr. Simmons said that he was willing to pay twenty-five dollars a month more to get some one who was honest and trustworthy. He asked me if I knew of some one that was a full tithe-payer that he could get to do the work. He made the statement that a man who would be honest with God would be honest with his fellowman."
"What do you know about that!" John exclaimed with surprise. "I thought that he hated the Mormons?"
"He isn't as bad as he likes to make people think sometimes. You see, I have had a good many talks about the Gospel with him myself; and I tell you that he isn't as dumb as you might think. I believe that he would join the church in a minute if he wasn't afraid of what people would think after all the mean things that he has said about us."
"I am glad to hear that, as well as surprised," John said. "And I will be glad to get that job. I surely do appreciate your trouble too, Bishop. It is mighty good to have a friend that will give you a lift once in a while."
He started to go when the Bishop put his hand gently on his shoulder, and said in a kind fatherly voice: "What is the trouble, John? Can't I help you?"
John hesitated for several seconds, debating whether to tell him about Mary or to keep it a secret, then he answered: "You have helped me, more than words can express."
"But there is something else. Something that has happened since you were here the other day. Won't you let me help you, John?" he asked again.
John told him all that had happened. How he had tried so hard to maintain a comfortable home, how he had failed to find work, and how Mary had left him. He also
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
told him about the awful fight that he had experienced in regard to tithing.
The good Bishop sat in silence until he had finished his story, and then he said with a deep tender voice: "John, I have always thought a lot of you. I don't know whether it is because you have worked so long with me in the church or something else.
"Brother Beach is going away next week, and I have been wondering if you would like to take his place in the Bishopric. We need a young man in there with us. We are both getting old, and we have been there for a long time. You have been a faithful worker in the church with me ever since you were a deacon, and have been a great joy to me in this work. Will you accept this office?"
"Gladly, Bishop," he answered, choking back a tear. But he was wondering why the Bishop hadn't said anything about his trouble before he mentioned that. He was sure that he had meant to tell him something about it or he would have never asked him about it.
"Mr. And Mrs. Carter came in this morning with Mary," he said as if reading John's thoughts. "They were asking my advice about getting a divorce. That is the old folks were. Mary just said that she thought it was the best thing that she could do under the circumstances.
"We talked for some time. They explained how Mary had been mistreated, how she and the babies had been starved, and so on. Mary didn't say much; Mr. Carter did most of the speaking.
"When they had finished I asked to speak to Mr. Carter alone, and
WHEN THE TEST COMES
after talking for a few minutes he admitted that he was hoping that Mary would fall in love with a certain man that he thought a great deal of, and who had plenty of money. It seemed that the man had already taken an interest in her, but of course she knew nothing about that part of it.
"And then I talked to Mary. I found that Mary isn't responsible for this trouble, but very foolish parents.
"Go and get her, John; and take her to the Temple and marry her right," he said in that deep kind voice that had thrilled many a court room. "She is worth too much to lose."
John tried to speak, but could not say a word. The good Bishop gave him a sealed envelope on which was written: "Do not ask questions of me now."
John stumbled out of the office, and down the road towards home. As he came nearer he could see the smoke curling up from the chimney, and knew that Mary had come home. When he entered the house the odors of good things cooking came to him. Overcome by hunger and exhaustion he would have fallen if Mary hadn't caught him and led him to the bed.
It was some time after that, and after much forgiving and thankfulness that John thought of the letter which the Bishop had given him. Inside was a letter, and another sealed envelope. The letter read:
"Dear John: "Please forgive me for taking things in my own hands, but you see, that I knew Mary would be home before you, and that she would like to have something good to eat when you returned, so I went to the store and had a few
635
things sent out that I was sure that you needed, and told the delivery man to leave them on the porch, and if he saw Mary to tell her that you sent them out.
"These things are charged to you at the store, because I thought that you would rather have it that way.
"R. S. Steel."
On the other envelope was written: "A wedding present, with best wishes from your Bishop." Inside was a recommend for them to go to the Temple for marriage, and three twenty-dollar bills.
A few weeks later John returned home one evening to find Mr. And Mrs. Carter waiting there for him. They had come to apologize for the wrong that they had done.
"And what do you know about it, dear," Mary said happily, "they are going to be baptized Saturday."
"And we want to go through the Temple and be married all over again, like you did, just as soon as we can," Mr. Carter explained proudly. "I think that is the most wonderful thing that I ever heard of. I have just been wondering what has been the matter with me all these years."
"And you might just as well know that all this came about because you paid that last five dollars tithing, John," put in Mrs. Carter. "It must have taken a lot of faith to give your last cent to the Lord when your family was on the verge of starvation. That was the thing that started us to investigating the Gospel."
Through John Richards' mind ran the words, "If you don't believe that the Lord will do just what he says he will do, try him once, and see for yourself. That is the way to find out."