Save the Wild Birds
By J. H. Paul
The Farm Defenders
CERTAIN birds, pre-eminent for the services they render to farms by their constant destruction of the various forms of rodent life, are termed the farm defenders. In the main they are the two groups of the chief birds of prey?the hawks and owls. Feeding chiefly upon mice, gophers, rats, rabbits, and similar creatures, they save the farm crops yearly from destruction by these small mammals.
The Sanpete Incident
THE following incident, related to the writer by various eyewitnesses, he at first took to contain natural and unconscious exaggeration, recalled by people whose gratitude for deliverance from the scourge of rodent millions might have led them to magnify the circumstances into a sort of special deliverance from these devastating and relentless foes. Accounts of the affair seemed incredible; but upon laying it before the Biological Survey, the writer was assured by Dr. A. K. Fisher, authority on American hawks and owls, that he had no doubt of the substantial accuracy of the reports; and that, while he had never heard of this Sanpete episode, he knew of other such occurrences in the semi-arid West and was well prepared to accept the Utah story.
Here, then, is a summary of the facts.
The Terrible Chiselers
IN 1908 sheep herders near Spring City came into town with the report that millions of large field rats, which they called chiselers from their incessant gnawing, were coming over the mountains, headed in the direction of the cultivated valley. Efforts to turn them aside proved fruitless. Like waves of the sea, they came on endlessly. Terrible rodents they were, sweeping everything before them, leaving the ground black and bare behind them, and at night burrowing into the earth. The people were in despair; they sensed not alone the loss of their field crops for the year, but even their orchards and shade trees must perish from injury to the roots.
Armies of Hawks
THEY noticed many hawks soaring overhead; and now and again a hawk would swoop low and then sail away, bearing a rat in his talons. Then, as the hawks were not molested in their work, they flew lower, finally settling upon the ground and in trees. It seemed that the orchard trees must break under the weight of hawks perched in them; one man relates that he had to lead his heavy team along the main lane, lest the horses should trample upon the hawks intently watching the rat burrows and seizing the rodents the moment they came to the surface. They would tear the rats to pieces, eating only the choice parts, then resume their watch for others.
The Owls Came Also
MOST of the rats soon learned to keep out of sight in the daySAVE THE WILD BIRDS
637
time, coming out to feed during the nights only. Then a strange thing happened. Owls came, of many different species; their noiseless flight, keen eyesight and hearing, enabled them to pick up the rats as fast as the creatures came to the surface.
It took a ten-month's battle, the hawks working by day, the owls by night, for these great allies of man to annihilate the rodents that came so near to destroying the orchards and farm crops, but they did it; and but for the abundant hawks and owls, Dr. Fisher says, the rats would have swept through many counties, leaving ruin in their wake.
The writer was telling this incident a few years ago at a church gathering in Salt Lake City. A man in the audience arose, asking, "May I say a word?" He then related that some forty years previously he had heard at a conference meeting of the L. D. S. Church, an elder named Hyde (no doubt Orson Hyde) strongly advise the people to restrain their young men from shooting at hawks, owls, and other birds of prey. "These people," the narrator went on, "seemed to have sense enough"?some people do!?"to do as they were counseled by those in authority; and they spared the birds." Though no one seemed to realize that the mountains of Sanpete contained unusual numbers of hawks and owls, yet in the hour of the people's need, these able defenders of man came to their rescue and saved the day for Utah and the Rocky Mountain West. Some therefore
638
hold that Utah should have monuments erected also to the hawks and owls as well as to the gulls, which had previously, 1849, saved Salt Lake valley from ruin by Western crickets.
Well do authorities on bird life say: Never shoot an owl. All owls are of proved benefit to man. The great horned owl, which alone is of small value, yet renders considerable service. We have a dozen of the owl species, all of high worth.
Never shoot a hawk unless you know the difference between the ten kinds of beneficial hawks and the four destructive ones. The safe plan is not to kill any hawk; the chances being about ten to one that you will be killing one of the best friends of man, as the Swainson, the rough-leg, the red tail, the sparRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
row hawk. Never shoot any hawk that soars and sails, or that has long wings, or that is reddish brown. It is not conclusive that the hawk is a bad one simply because it has taken a chicken. Some of the good hawks occasionally take chickens that get in their way.
Bird Allies of Man
INSECT hordes that directly attack man comprise: mosquitoes, gnats, flies, small moths, and flying ants. Certain groups of birds spend their lives in consuming these pests. Bird allies of man therefore includes the swallows, the nighthawk, the poor will, and the flycatchers of many kinds. Each summer these birds save us from being overwhelmed by insect foes that bite, sting, and infect us with disease.
A safe rule is: Never kill any small bird; all small birds except the imported house sparrow, the so-called English sparrow, are the friends and comrades, and usually the allies of man. The English sparrow should be destroyed under expert advice, by using poison.
Bird Martyrs
MARTYRS are the upland game species and the varied kinds of waterfowl that are hunted by man and (other) wild beasts. Nine tenths of all pot-hunting is simply bird massacre. Seven million licensed gunners are rapidly exterminating the American wild fowl. All kinds of wild fowl and most game birds are now rare. Many of the best and finest species are already extinct. Nature lovers now call upon ministers, teachers, and church leaders, to help in saving the wild fowl. Extermination at the hands of thoughtless gunners is imminent.
Teachers in the schools, and especially lady teachers, have given wonderful help in the conservation of bird life; and here and now, in the name of science, the thanks of mankind are tendered to all teachers who give school lessons on bird life.
How to Help the Birds
FOLLOWING is a program recommended to those who appreciate bird life and have a desire to aid in conserving it:
In winter put out food, even on the tops of buildings on Main Street, for the housefinch; strew cracked corn and waste wheat on the ground, under box-elders and maples for evening grosbeaks; leave old apples on the trees for waxwings, but destroy or bury the ap-
639
ples in early spring. Plant Virginia creeper and mountain ash about houses for winter bird-food; scatter bunches of red-root (amaranth) for snow birds and horned larks; throw out in certain fixed spots any kind of waste meat and vegetables for gulls and table waste for robins; tie up table waste, old suet, and fat meat in string nets and fasten these in oak-brush and maple at the mouths of canyons?food for chickadees, woodpeckers, jays, and towhees; and have unfrozen water running near the feeding places.
In spring put out bits of cotton, wool, horsehair, and short pieces of string, for the nests of oriole, chipping sparrow, and wood peewee; put up bird boxes for housefinch, bluebird, house wren, chickadee, and violet-green swallow; leave openings under eaves of garage and barn for swallows to enter, and provide flat places for them to nest on.
Cease keeping cats. Get the city council to tax cats?$1.00 a year for males; $2.00 for females.
Warn gunners not to shoot hawks, owls, kingfisher, pelican, herons, cranes, swans, sage grouse, dusky grouse, mourning dove, curlew, avocet, stilt, willet, nor song birds of any kind.
Induce boys to discard flippers and small guns.
Do not inspect (keep away from) birds' nests.
Put up signs in canyons and in all groves reserved as wild life sanctuaries: "No Fire Arms and no Cats Allowed."
Go afield with boys and girls, to learn the beauty and value of birds, to study their actions under a field glass, and to enjoy their songs.
Persuade men to change from
 
shot-guns to cameras and opera glasses, from bird slaughter to bird study, from cruelty to kindness, from sin to righteousness?by saving, not killing, the birds of their country.
Think out ways of protecting birds, talk bird conservation and thereby add to the tremendous gain that has been made during the last three decades in the sentimental attitude towards birds.