[Vol11 | January 1924 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Guide_Lessons | Title: Guide Lessons for March]

Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I Theology Lesson THE PARABLES OF THE SAVIOR (First Week in March)
A. Why Jesus Taught in Parables.
There came a time in the life of Jesus when a mixed multitude of people followed him to hear what he might say, and see what he might do. This multitude might be divided into two classes: the one, a class of truth seekers; the other, a class of unbelievers or doubters. The first class was open to conviction. It was composed of the meek, in that they were teachable. For the most part, they were disciples of Christ, that is, believers in him. To them he could talk as Jehovah talked to Moses, "face to face." Jesus said of them: "Blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear." (Matt. 13:16.) The others were persons who had no desire to learn the truth and were possessed of a determination not to be converted. (Matt. 13:15.) Being acquainted with the prophets through a study of the scripture, and knowing the condition of these people through the spirit of discernment, he spoke to them in parables as a fulfiller of prophecy and as a teacher who recognized the psychological truth, "that a man convinced against his will is of the same opinion still." Through parables he secured their attention, and taught them the truth in a way that left them with less responsibility than if he had declared the kingdom unto them by direct discourse. These self-made skeptics, however, could not escape without being burdened with something to think about. Their intellects were moved to the point of wonder; but their hearts were not reached to the point of understanding. The spirit of testimony in mercy was withheld from them. Of the multitudes who listened to his parables, and of the millions who have read them, not one person, be that one ever so infidelic, can get away from the import of the lessons taught, so universal are his parables in their application to life. There are twenty-nine parables spoken by the Savior recorded in the New Testament. Of these twenty-nine, seven were delivered to the multitude who stood on the shores of the Sea of Galilee, while sitting in a boat he spoke to them. (Matt. 13:2.) On this occasion his entire discourse was parabolic. (Matt. 13:34.) In thus limiting his form of teaching on this occasion, he fulfilled the prophecy found in Psalms 78:2, "I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings of old." For one of the best things written on this topic see "Christ's Purposes in Using Parables," page 295 in Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage of the Council of the Twelve.
B. The First Parable?The Sower.
The setting. The following is from Jesus the Christ by Talmage, page 300: "Local Setting for the Parable of the Sower.??Dr. R. C. Trench, in his excellent work Notes on the Parables of our Lord (page 57, note), quotes Dean Stanley's description of existing conditions in the place where the Parable of the Sower was given by Jesus; and as there is reason to believe that the environment has changed but little since the days of Christ, the account is here reproduced. "A slight recess in the hillside close upon the plain disclosed at once in detail, and with a conjunction which I remember nowhere else in Palestine, every feature of the great parable. There was the undulating corn-field descending to the water's edge. There was the trodden pathway running through the midst of it, with no fence or hedge to prevent the seed falling here or there on either side of it, or upon it?itself hard with the constant tramp of horse and mule and human beings. There was the 'good' rich soil, which distinguishes the whole of that plain and its neighborhood from the bare hills elsewhere, descending into the lake, and which, where there is no interruption, produces one vast mass of corn. There was the rocky ground of the hillside protruding here and there through the corn-fields, as elsewhere, through the grassy slopes. There were the large bushes of thorn, the 'nabk' *** springing up, like the fruit-trees of the more inland parts, in the very midst of the waving wheat." 2. The Parable. "Behold, a sower went forth to sow; and when he sowed, some seeds fell by the wayside, and the fowls came and devoured them up: some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth; and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: and when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: but other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundred fold, some sixty fold, some thirty fold." 3. The Interpretation. (Matt. 13:18-23). "Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. "When anyone heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the wayside. 48. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it; "Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while; for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. "He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. "But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty." 4. Suggestions for Thought. This parable was given to show the various states of preparation of the mind for the reception of the truth; not the soil itself, but its condition is the object of consideration. His hearers, acquainted with the soil of the country and the methods of tillage, well knew that the wayside paths that crossed the field could be made productive by plowing and harrowing. The stony land ' could be cleared of the rocks and the soil made strong by the use of fertilizers. The weedy parts of the field could be made to produce good crops by rooting up the tares and even the most productive soil might be improved. A heart, hardened by prejudice against the truth, is like a hardened highway where nothing can grow. The mind with a sincerity that fails in the presence of temptation or opposition is typified by the shallow soil. The soul whose time and attention are absorbed in material interests to the exclusion of active interest in spiritual things is represented by the soil cumbered with weeds. The character that comes from seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness is the soil, clear of weeds, free from stones, and hardpan, and in a high state of cultivation. For a more elaborate discussion see Jesus the Christ, page 283 to 285. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What two classes of people followed Jesus to hear what he might say and see what he might do? 2. To which class did he speak in parables? 3. Why did his disciples wonder at his teaching in parables?. 4. What reason did Jesus give for his teaching in parables? 5. Give the setting to the occasion when he first spoke in parables. 6. How many parables were spoken by Jesus during his first day of parabolic teaching? 7. Repeat the parable of the Sower. 8, What was the chief object of this parable? LESSON DEPARTMENT. 2 49 9. Give the Savior's interpretation of the parable of the Sower. 10. What condition of mind or spirit is represented Ey the weedy ground? 11. What two prophecies did Jesus fulfil by speaking in parables? 12. Give some additional points on the parable. 13. What does Dr. James E. Talmage say concerning the parable of the Sower suggesting the doctrine of fatalism? (page 285.) 14. Of what value is this parable in our day? LESSON II. Work and Business (Second Week in March): LESSON III Literature (Third Week in March) This lesson is in a sense a review, however, some new material is used. Whatever the Puritans believed or did not believe; whatever virtues they practiced or failed to practice, one thing is very sure, they believed in the immortality of the soul. Lord Macaulay tells us, in substance, that the Puritan was enabled to make great sacrifices and endure untold hardships because of the vision he had of the hereafter and the glory that awaited him. Benjamin Franklin intimates that the Puritans had a tendency to be impractical; that they were inclined to neglect the here and now for - the hereafter. These statements are proof of the fact that they had very unusual interest, as we see it from our present day point of view, in the life after death. We shall devote this lesson to evidences of that faith. Both Longfellow and Whittier reflect the thought of the early New England people in their attitude towards the hereafter. We have referred elsewhere to Longefellow's poem, footsteps of Angels. The reference in the fourth stanza of the poem is to the poet's friend and brother-in-law, George W. Pierce, of whom he said long after: "I have never ceased to feel that in his death, something was taken from my own life which could never be restored.'"' In the sixth stanza, he speaks of his young wife. The Village Blacksmith contains the same message, for when he hears his daughter's voice singing in the village choir "it sounds to him like her mother's voice singing in Paradise." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The Old Clock on the Stairs emphasizes the same idea. In thinking how all who have lived in the old home are scattered and that some are fled, that "some are married, some are dead," the old clock is interpreted as saying, that they will never meet here again; that they will never be separated in the world to come. These are the words of the poem: "Never here, forever there, Where all parting, pain, and care, And death, and time, shall disappear,? Forever there, but never here! The horologe of Eternity Sayeth this incessantly,? 'Forever?never! ~ Never?forever!' " The Psalm of Life was written at a time when Longfellow said he was unwilling to show his manuscript to anyone, it being a voice from his inmost heart at a time when he was rallying from depression. In this poem he announces in concise and very forceful words that: "Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul." Whittier, in Snowbound expresses himself upon this matter in the following lines: -"Ah, brother! Only I and thou Are left of all the circle now,? The dear home faces whereupon That fitful firelight paled and shone. Henceforward, listen as we will, The voices of that hearth are still; Look where we may, the wide earth o'er Those lighted faces smile no more. We tread the paths their feet have worn, We sit beneath their orchard-trees, We hear, like them the hum of bees And rustle of the bladed corn; We turn the pages that they read, Their written words we linger o'er But in the sun they cast no shade, No voice is heard, no sign is made. No step is on the conscious floor! Yet Love will dream, and Faith will trust. 
 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE STANDARD OF LIVING??GENERAL TYPES OF WELFARE WORK The desire of man to help his neighbor in distress is as old as the race itself. Good Samaritans have administered to the needs and wants of those fallen by the wayside for countless generations. The spirit of brotherly love, of human interest, has found expression in many forms. The relation of doctor to patient, of teacher to pupil, of employer to employee, of neighbor to neighbor, is often of a helpful, altruistic nature. This bond which exists in natural, human situations is a strong one, and because of its naturalness and strength, can be an important one in the solution of human problems. A doctor, a teacher, a relative, or a friend may be able to render the right kind of service at a certain time to an individual in trouble. But in our present day society, which is becoming constantly more complex and less personal, these natural bonds cannot be relied on to care for all the difficult social situations that arise. In this day of specialization, in industry, in education, in medicine, etc., the employer, the teacher, or the physician does not often play the intimate role of adviser and friend. The difficulties which individuals have to meet in our day are sometimes involved and often require a special kind of skill to overcome them. The friendly employer, or neighbor, or relative is not always familiar with the medical, educational and social resources of the community and often cannot render the expert kind of service that an individual may require. But this concern that individuals have for the well-being of other individuals is still finding expression, and is the motive behind the various movements and programs that form what is known as organized welfare work. Welfare or social work is, in a general sense, any work that is undertaken deliberately for the purpose of bettering environment or of assisting man to a better adjustment and a more complete life in this environment. In carrying out this purpose, activities have been of two quite different types: first, those of a general educational or legislative nature, which attempt to accomplish general, or group, or environmental betterment; and second, the work of a personal or special nature, which aims to effect better adjustment and more complete development of individuals and families by personal advice and treatment. Some aspects of the first type of betterment work will now be mentioned and the second type will be left for more detailed discussion in subsequent lessons, LESSON DEPARTMENT ???Many of the advances made in the field of health are the result of general measures designed for group improvement. An outstanding example is the enactment of the Sheppard-Towner (Maternity) act, which provides for the appropriation of both federal and state funds for the promotion of maternity and child welfare. The public schools, too, give an example of general work for the good of the group, in their health program, which includes physical examinations, regular weighing and measuring, and the keeping of health charts of the school children. Milk stations, health centers, baby clinics, etc., give health advantages to certain groups and do much to raise the general health standard. The prohibition movement might also be cited as an educational and legislative accomplishment of a group of public spirited individuals who desire to contribute to the general health, moral and social betterment of the race. (Edward T. Devine's Normal Life: Intemperance, pages 141-145.) The tuberculosis campaign and its teachings of fundamental principles of health has been recognized as an important phase of the modern health program. (Normal Life: Disease, pages 152-157.) Various health ordinances, inspection of milk and public eating houses, quarantine regulations. Etc., are all important sanitary achievements and are designed for the protection of the public health..; In the field of industry many significant reforms have been instituted in recent years. The better working conditions, the shorter hours, the higher wages in the major industries of the present show a decided improvement over the conditions of a few years ago. The introduction of skilled personnel officers, whose function it is to endeavor to place the employees in positions to which they are best suited, is another development of modern industry. Industrial insurance, providing for compensation to those disabled in the performance of their labors, has done much to mitigate the suffering of the families where the breadwinner has been injured. Legislation controlling the hours and types of work of women employees is generally considered desirable protective work. The stress that has been placed on the elimination of child labor will be continued until children everywhere will be relieved of the burden of early economic struggle and are given the rights of education, recreation, and natural, normal development. (Normal Life: Working Children, page 65; State and Federal Laws, pages 67-69.) Changes in school standards and educational methods have been marked and many. A particularly significant one to the students of social welfare is that of compulsory school attendance until a minimum age has been reached. (Normal Life: School Attendance, page 69.) The development of a vocational curriculum, the establishment of part-time schools, and the organization of special classes for retarded children, each gives opportunities 54. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the groups in need of such training, for better future economic adjustment. (Normal Life: Elementary Conditions of Social Education, page 38.) In order to provide recreation of a wholesome nature and to offer an attractive substitute for the commercialized amusements, which are often of a demoralizing nature, public amusements, public parks and playgrounds have been provided by many cities. Some communities, too, have organized festivals, pageants, plays, etc., for both children and adults. (Normal Life: Play, page 42.) Behind all these movements, making their accomplishments possible, is the groping of the group concerned for the improvements and advantages they desire; but added to this group desire has been the power and strength of a large public spirited majority, who have a deep human interest in the welfare of society and the development of the race. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give an example of an act of human service. Explain the motive of the act. 2. Why is organized welfare work necessary? 3. What are the two main types of welfare work? 4. Tell what you know of the development and present status of the Sheppard-Towner act. 5. Give a short. Account of the prohibition movement, pointing out the motives of the leaders. 6. What are the advantages of industrial insurance? 7. When might it be a hardship on a family to comply with the compulsory education ordinance? Should the child be given a "special permit" to discontinue school, or is there some other solution to the situation? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME?SACRAMENT The Last Supper?''And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins." Matthew 26:26, 27, 28. A. The sacredness and solemnity of partaking*of the sacrament, - B. The blessings that follow when this privilege is righteously exercised. "Partaking of the sacrament worthily may be regarded therefore as a means of renewing our covenants before the Lord and solemnly witnessing our claim of membership in the Church of Christ." Articles of Faith, page 179. Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah Robertson's "EASY" Washing Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Troy LAUNDRY Distinctive Work Office 319 Main St.