[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: MARINDA BATEMAN. | Author: Unknown]

MARINDA BATEMAN.

	We will now let our minds travel back to
a time almost fifty years ago when there
were no people or houses south of Salt
Lake City, but we travel along and come
to Gardner's mill, down near the banks of
the notable Jordan river, and when we see
a mill we naturally know there is a miller
and by inquiry we find there is a miller
here and that he has a rosy-cheeked daugh-
ter. She is not like the girls of the present
with their fancy embroidery and fine
laces, but is taught to card and spin, to
cook, wash and iron and everything that
will help to clothe and feed the numerous
family of the miller, but she looks just as
winning to a tall, dark-complexioned youth
who wears jeans pants and linsey over-shirt
and his hair oiled sleek, roached in front
and turned under at the end--who comes
wooing the miller's daughter and it ends in
a marriage. She becomes a farmer's bride
and they start in life together while young,
with empty hands but willing hearts.
	Years glide by, children come to them,
with plenty of work. She is chosen president
of the Relief Society, her husband is called to
the Muddy on a mission, she is released to 
accompany him. The mission falls through,
they are released, she does not go but still
goes along in her quiet way. Trials come,
sometimes smiles, sometimes tears, years
pass and with them come changes. She is
again chosen president of a Relief Society
which she fills with honor until January 21,
1900, she is chosen Stake president and the
present shows us the tall farmer and the
miller's daughter, not so young, but just as
smiling and happy, still true to each other
and their God, and we would venture to
wager, if the Relief Society board had not
forbidden us gambling or raffling or any-
thing of the kind, now that she is fifty-five 
years of age, if you would bring her the old-
fashioned spinning wheel she could spin a
broach or reel her knots and make a skein
of yarn and color her madder, logwood and
blue-dye in the same old way and be proud
of it, too. And may her numerous family
rise up and call her blessed and be proud to
own the miller's daughter for their mother.
May she live long to counsel her sisters and 
help to take care of the sick and the afflicted.
	We forgot to add that she is known all
over the Stake, for the children say she 
brings awful nice things to mama in her
little satchel.
	HILDA LARSEN.
	Years ago in dear old Sweden there was


[Column 1]

born a sweet little Swedish "Flicka." She
like all of her people was raised to work
and be industrious and self-sustaining.
	She joined the Church in an early day,
came to Utah a young and blushing maiden
and captivated the heart of one of our best
citizens. They were married and settled
here in this lovely city in which we have
met today. For twenty years she took ac-
count of all the nickels and dimes and each
bar of soap and yard of calico received by
the Relief Society of Sandy, for she held the
exalted office of secretary. She was chosen
counselor to Sister Bateman in the Stake,
January 21, 1900, which office we know
she will fill with honor. We know she has
always been found, tried and true and we
hope to see her good-natured face smiling
among us as the years and days go by and
we would just give her a word of advice,
if she don't be a pretty good girl she had
better, for we know there is one of the
High Council always has his eye on her.
AGNES CUTLER.
	Away back in Scotland there was born
one day a dear little Scotch lassie. When
quite small her parents joined the Church
and like many others gathered to Zion and
settled in Salt Lake City. She, like our
president, learned the fine art of spinning
and coloring, and her joyous laugh rang
out as she spun the skeins of yarn to help
to make the beautiful flannel and linsey
ball and reception dresses that were worn
at that time.
	The lassie, when she was very young,
decided that she would choose an occupa-
tion, and she went into the Cutlery business
and settled on the beautiful banks of the
Jordan. Life to her was not all summer
and the bitter was mixed with the sweet,
but she was always cheerful; her com-
panion was taken and she was alone.
	After awhile she chose another trade, she
became a Cooper. For various reasons this
proved a failure and she went back to the
Cutlery business. Twice she has been
chosen president of the Relief Society and
she has filled the position with honor. She
was chosen counselor in the Stake January
21, 1900, and as the years go by may we
always have our Scotch lassie to cheer and
comfort us, and may the Cutlers and Coop-
ers increase and the Jordan Stake honor
and appreciate her worth, and we know she
can always spin us a good yarn if she hasn't
her spinning wheel.
ELIZABETH GARDNER.
	We will not go back so far now, but only
to a time when a merry little girl came to
gladden the home of one of the pioneer
families of the historic town of dear old
West Jordan. She came, grew, went to
school, played, romped and had a merry
time until she thought it time to settle
down and one of our handsome Utah boys
came along and she chose her trade and she
has been a Gardner ever since; she also
was chosen our Stake secretary on January
21, 1900, and she has written minutes,
called rolls and puzzled her brain since
then; she too has had her joys and sorrows, 
but as a mother and grandmother, old
father time has dealt lightly with her and
we see her today apparently smiling and
happy, and may she still continue to be our
secretary until her hair is gray and her eyes
are dim with years. 
EMILY WHITE.
	We remember a long time ago seeing a

[Column 2]

 tall, slender, sweet young English girl
come from Salt Lake City to West Jordan
on a visit to relatives and with her a neatly
dressed young man. After awhile we heard
that the Mills had turned White and after
awhile we heard there were some more 
White Mills and that they had all moved
to the illustrious city of Sandy, where we
hear of her from time to time, always as-
sociated with good works and kind deeds
in the Primary Association and in acts of
charity, and like the rest there has been
many sad pages in her life, but may she al-
ways find joy and comfort in keeping in the
path of her duty, and may the love and re-
spect of her children be her crowning joy.
She was chosen assistant secretary of the
Stake, which position she now holds.
AGNES CUSHING.
	Not so very long ago, judging from the
sweet and youthful face smiling before us,
there was born in the town of historical
Draper a little girl who lived, played and
went to school as the most of our girls do
until she became of an age to choose for
herself. Although her pathway may not
always have been strewn with roses we
know that we can say with truthfulness,
she has always, ever since she has chosen,
had a nice cushion to lean upon. She holds
the reponsible position of treasurer, and we
haven't heard of her being over-burdened
yet with cash, but may she live long and
have strength given her to carry every bur-
den she may have placed upon her shoul-
ders, and may her pleasant face always be 
found among the Relief Society workers.
And as she adds the small cushions to her
store already on hand, may they prove a
blessing and a comfort to her. Bu, hon-
estly, we don't care how heavy the Relief
Society bags may become. 
