[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: FAITH. | Author: E. B. W]

FAITH.
Lord give us faith to trust in Thee,
Whatever sorrows may betide:
Attune our hearts in unity,
That in Thy love we may abide.

Strengthen our faith, that we may live
According to Thy sacred word;
Thy Holy Spirit freely give
We pray Thee, O most gracious Lord.

O, may we seek for light divine
To shine upon our onward way;
Make us, O Lord, more truly Thine,
Renew our courage day by day.

Help us to consecrate to Thee,
Our time, our talents, all our wealth; 
Make of our efforts harmony,
And give us joy, and peace and health.

However dark the days may be,
Though storms are fierce, and rude the
blast,
O, give Thy Saints the victory,
Through faith to overcome at last.

A wondrous power the Saints possess,
Who seek for wisdom from on high,
Proclaiming truth and righteousness,
Whatever dangers may be nigh.

Lord give us mighty Faith to stand
Valiant for Zion, and for Thee,
Till Right shall rule in all the land, 
And Peace abound from sea to sea. 
EMMELINE B. WELLS. 
July 23, 1903.


[Column 1] 
IN MEMORIAM. 
CAROLINE YOUNG CANNON.
"A mother's love--how sweet the name!
What is a mother's love?
A noble, pure and tender flame,
Enkindled from above."
	There is no love like the love of a mother,
ask the wisest and best of men, or women
either; the one memory that lives of all
childhood's hours, is the memory of the
tender, patient, long-suffering, untiring
mother. It gives men faith in womankind
and trust in all things noble and high.
"Youth fades; love droops; the leaves of friendship
fall,
A mother's hope and love outlives them all."
	An ideal mother was Mrs. Cannon, tender
and yet not over indulgent, her heart was
in her home and she was by birth and cir-
cumstance a Latter-day Saint, believing in
all the principles, revealed through Joseph 
Smith, the prophet, in these Latter-days
for the salvation and exaltation of the hu-
man family. 
	Mrs. Caroline Young Cannon was the 
daughter of President Brigham Young and
of his wife, Emily D. Partridge Young.
The grandparents on the maternal side
were among the first who embraced the 
Gospel in the early days of the Church;
her grandfather, Bishop Edward Partridge,
was the first Presiding Bishop of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Bishop
Partridge was a Massachusetts man, born 
raised in the Berkshire hills; his wife
was also of the same good old Puritan
stock, and the fact is well known that
President Brigham Young's family were
also Puritans, his father, John Young, a 
revolutionary soldier. 
	Caroline Young was the second daughter
and third child of Brother Brigham and
Sister Emily Young, and was born in this
city, February 1, 1851, in one of the humble
homes of those early days, on the corner 
where the Alta Club now stands.
	Sister Caroline Cannon had the best of 
d
[Column 2]
she, like her noble mother, was valiant for 
the truth, possessed of sterling integrity
and steadfastness in the principles of truth 
and right But she has gone from this
sphere of usefulness; called home when
everything seemed hopeful and promising
for a future in which she would see her
younger children grow to manhood and
womanhood under her protecting care and
wise guardianship.
	Sister Cannon was the mother of twelve
children and has nine now living, five sons
and four daughters, one son and three
daughters married, seven grandchildren.
	One son and two daughters died in their 
infancy and no doubt she has joined them
ere this, never more to be separated, these, 
with her husband, father, mother and a 
host of loved ones gone before, we can and
do believe welcomed her on the golden
shore where there is life forevermore.
	A wife and mother has much to do in the
care of a home and rearing a family, but
there comes in most woman's lives a time
when she feels to take hold of some of the
duties outside the home, and because of 
these the home life itself is often broadened
and made better. Sister Cannon arrived at
that period, and though reluctant to come
before the public, she was willing to take
part in doing, if not in speaking. She was 
a charter member of the Utah State Society
of the Daughters of the Revolution, and
enjoyed the meetings very much, she had
given one or two very able and instructive
papers on patriotic subjects. Her loss will 
be deeply felt in the ranks of the D. R., as 
she was counted one who always bore her
part in whatever there was to do.
	In August, 1901, when the president of
the Relief Society of Cannon Ward re-
signed, having been called to fill a position
in the Stake Board, Sister Caroline V. Can-
non was elected president, and has been
very successful and efficient in this active,
benevolent and charitable work. Sister
Cannon has entertained much in her home, 
especially during the last ten years, and 
has been an admirable hostess. The
Daughters of the Revolution met in her
home for their Thanksgiving meeting last
November, and she has more than once
entertained the Relief Society of the ward
and these have been occasions of more than 
ordinary interest. 
	Sister Cannon was also a charter member
of the Daughters of the Pioneers, an organ-
ization now in its third year and one that
gives promise of being of great historical
value to the State of Utah.
	But we shall see her no more in our
gatherings, she has gone from our sight,
yet we shall cherish her image in our 
hearts. 
"Though lost to sight to memory dear."
	Of her youthful days much might be
said. She was one of the girls in Presi-
dent Young's family that were designated
"The Big Ten," at the time when the
famous "Lion House" was full of life and
cheerfulness and beautiful girls and fine
young men, sons and daughters of that re-
nowned man among men, Brigham Young.
	Sister Caroline Young Cannon departed
this life, Thursday, July 2, 1903, at ten
minutes to one o'clock p. m. Her death
was primarily the result of rheumatism and
secondarily of ulceration of the throat
which had seriously affected vital parts of
her body.
	Her demise was not unlooked for towards
the last of her illness, she had made a brave
[Column 3]
fight for life, and mighty faith had been
exercised in her behalf, but when all failed
the dearest of her loved ones, young and
tender, tried to be reconciled to the inevit-
able.
"They are gathering homeward from every land,
	One by one. 
As their weary feet touch the shining strand,
	One by one, 
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white garments they rest on the
mead,
Where the Lamb doth love His chosen to lead,
	One by one."
	The funeral services were held on Sun-
day, July 5, at her own residence; the
sweetest flowers were banked here and
there in all available places, and there were
many exquisite floral designs, gifts of lov-
ing friends and of members of the family.
	The services were conducted by Bishop
Lewis M. Cannon. Vocal music by a male
quartette was inspiring and yet sweetly sad. 
President Joseph F. Smith and his counsel-
ors, John R. Winder and Anthon H. Lund,
were present, also Apostle John Henry
Smith, Rudger Clawson and President Sey-
mour B. Young, of the Seven Presidents of
Seventies, and other Church dignitaries.
The remarks of the several speakers were 
comforting and encouraging to those bowed
down with the terrible loss of one so near
and dear.
	The pall bearers were her brothers, sons
of President Young, except one, her nephew
Richard W. Young. She was literally
buried in flowers.
	"So He giveth His beloved sleep."
Dear Carlie, she was greatly beloved
by her many friends. She possessed an at-
tractive personality, and drew about her a
circle of friends who admired her many
sterling qualities of head and heart. But 
we who realize something about a future
state, know, if we are faithful, we shall
meet her again in that beautiful home
where sin or death cannot enter.
	"We, too, shall come to the riverside,
	One by one,
	We are nearer its waters each eventide,
	One by one."
		E. B. W.


