[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Literature]

LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November. ) A convenient and not unusual way to make a study of Longfellow's poems is to classify them as_ didactic, poems of the affection, and poems more imaginative. He also gives us a group of nature poems as well as his famed narratives and. Translations. Among his' didactic poems the "Psalm of Life' is at the head. Among the poems of the affection, '"The Village Blacksmith" and "The Old Clock on the Stairs" are representative. A good illustration of his imaginative poems are "The Midnight Mass for the Dying Year," and "The Skeleton in Armour." Among his nature — poems, "The Wreck of the Hesperus," "The Rainy Day," and "The Day in Done," are significant. Longfellow's gift of sympathy, both in his writing and his dealings with his fellow men was one of his very striking characteristics. The essence of his poems of imagination and affection, as well as much that is best in his nature poems, is born very largely of this gift of sympathy. No survey of Longfellow's writings would be complete that did not place emphasis upon his narratives. After six centuries of artistic writing contributed by the English, we learn to know how very rare a good narrative poet really is. Among the English poets the names of Chaucer, Scott and Tennyson stand out preeminently as writers of narrative poems. Longfellow has no superior and scarcely an equal among our American writers, as 2 writer of narrative poetry.. "Evangeline," "The Courtship of Miles Standish," "The Tales of a Wayside Inn," are among the most pleasing stories in verse to be found in the literature of our mother tongue. "Evangeline," a story of the love of a young couple settled in Acadia, in the village of Grand Pre, develops in- to an intense tragedy. The nature setting is beautiful and carries with it the charm of the primeval woodland. It is related that Longfellow and Hawthorne were at a dinner where the story of the expulsion of the Acadians, including the expulsion of Gabriel and Evangeline, was related. The guests immediately recognized the value of the story as literary material, and felt that Hawthorne should make use of it. Time passed and the novelist made no use of it. Finally, Longfellow asked permission to use it, and when "Evangeline" was written Hawthorne congratulated him very heartily on his achievement. Longfellow's reply to his friend's very warm note was to the effect, "that he had written a poem that many people would call prose, but had Hawthorne made use of the material he would have written a prose tale that many people would have called poetry." Some commentators on Longfellow have said that he put into the characters of this poem much of the sweetness of his own nature. "Hiawatha," also a narrative of merit, is unique in its rhythn and carries with it the atmosphere of Indian life that has been exalted into the realm of poetry. Enamored as he was with the literature of Europe, Longfellow made use of the verse forms he came in contact with there, as well as the material he amassed. His poetry has proved to be more vital than his prose, and yet it is only fair in passing to say something of "Outre-Mer" and "Hyperion." "Outre-Mer" resembles in style the "Sketch Book" of Irving, although it is more boyish in its sentiment. It records the poet's reminiscences in France, Spain and Italy. "Hyperion" has been very properly called a prose romance. In our last lesson we were made acquainted with the fact that Longfellow lost the wife of his youth in Europe. She died in Rotterdam. A line of his tells us that he "bowed his head and would fain have been bound up in the same sheaf with the sweet blue flower." In his grief and yearning he turned to German romanticism, and as a result gave us ""Hyperion" which is, among other things, an account in prose of his years of pone wandering after the death of his young wife. Longfellow's intensely human traits made ee appeal to ali who came in contact with him. Many people called at his home and he entertained them with very great patience. Among his last callers were three or four boys of the public schools of Cambridge, who were received by him on that occasion in the very pleasantest fashion. Longfellow was very popular among the Harvard 'students. At one time when the students were in a ferment of agitation he was asked to see what he could do to bring about a state of tranquility. He stepped out on a balcony to address the students who were seething below and when they saw him some one in the un- 
 ruly group exclaimed, "Let's listen to Longfellow—he has always been our friend." Longfellow's emotional life maintained an even tenor for the most part, but he knew sorrow and there are some flashes of humor from him. A friend approaching him after the death of his second wife suggested that he hoped he would be able to bear his cross, to which remark he replied, "But what if one is stretched out on that cross." No one can fail to see the quiet humor lurking in the "Courtship of Miles Standish." An example of his ready repartee is found in a story that tells us that at one time Mr. Longfellow was introduced to a man by the name of Longworth. He smilingly retorted— "Worth makes the man, the lack of it the fellow." In the latter part of his life, as the end approached, he got a good deal of consolation from his translations. When he was a student the ease of his translation had been noted. After Bryant had lost his wife he turned to the translations of the Greek poet Homer; after Longfellow's second deep sorrow he rendered into English verse Dante's immortal epic "The Divine Comedy." On the 50th anniversary of the Class of 1825, which class was Longfellow's graduation class, he read a poem, written for the occasion, called "Morituri Salutamus," a few stanzas of which we include. "O Caesar, we who are about to die Salute you!" was the gladiators' cry In the arena, standing face to face With death and with the Roman populace. - O ye familiar scenes—ye groves of pine That once were mine and are no longer mine,— Thou river, widening through the meadows green To the vast sea, so near and yet unseen,— Ye halls, in whose seclusion and repose Phantoms of fame, like exhalations, rose And vanished—we who are about to die, Salute you; earth and air and sea and sky, And the Imperial Sun that scatters down His sovereign splendors upon grove and town. Ye do not answer us! Ye do not hear! We are forgotten; and in your austere And calm indifference, ye little care Whether we come or go: or whence or where, What passing generations fill these halls, What passing voices echo from these walls, Ye heed not; we are only as the blast, A moment heard, and then forever past. This poem will undoubtedly find an echo in the hearts of many students whose college days are far behind them. It has been called his twilight song, yet for another seven years he was permitted to make the air melodious with his singing.
When Tennyson died his admirers could find no more fitting tribute to him than his own lines to the Duke of Wellington. It is hard to find a tribute to Longfellow more apt than his own tribute to the poet found in the "Arrow and the Song" which we include: I shot an arrow into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For, so swiftly it flew, the sight - Could not follow it in its flight. I breathed a song into the air, It fell to earth, I knew not where; For who has sight so keen and strong, That it can follow the flight of song? Long, long afterward, in an oak I found the arrow, still unbroke; And the song from beginning to end, I found again in the heart of a friend. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Read "The Village Blacksmith" and tell why it has made such large appeal to its readers. Is the emotional element of that poem such as would appeal to a select group or to a large number of persons? 2. {Select the words in the poem "The Rainy Day" that suggest a rainy day. Are they true to a rainy day as you think of such a day? How has Longfellow referred this rainy day to life? What do you think of the comfort he offers to those sad of heart, in the last stanza? 3. Turn to the poem "Morituri Salutamus" and select the passage dedicated to his old professors. Do you think he himself ° was an appreciative student, meriting the appreciation he had from his own students in later life? 4, Which of Longfellow's poems is your favorite? 5. Have somebody read a few lines from "Hiawatha" and a few lines from "'Evangeline" and note the difference in the movement of the verse of these respective poems. How old was Longfellow when he died? In what year did his death occur? 7. Read to the class if your time will permit either King Robert of Sicily or The Birds of Killingworth.