[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service]
LESSON IV.. Social Service (Fourth Week in November ) THE HOME AND ITS MATERIAL OBLIGATION Upon the financial condition of the family depend its com- 
 forts, social opportunities, education and general welfare. As its income increases better houses can be built with finer and more comfortable furniture, more books can be bought, opportunities for higher and more thorough education for the children present themselves. In one sense the material condition of the family is the foundation upon which all the higher interests and values of the family depend. This does not imply that wealth is in itself a guarantee of family welfare. Financial conditions are essential but not the sole condition. Some of the other conditions we have already discussed. The task of providing the family with the necessaries of life is a sacred obligation. The revelation of the Lord adds significance to this responsibility. "And again, verily I say unto you, that every man who is obligated to provide for his own family, let him provide and he shall in nowise lose his crown; and let him labor in the church. "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shail not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways." Doctrine and Covenants, 75:28-29. The Husband's Part It is man's duty to provide the family with the necessities of life. He that will not provide for his family, says the Lord, is worse than an infidel. These are strong words but their significance cannot be doubted. When a man marries and undertakes to rear a family he has undertaken a serious responsibility and is expected to meet the obligations to the best of his ability. In his struggle to do this it should be understood by himself, as well as by his wife, that whatever his work may be, if it is necessary to human welfare and the community requires it, it is honorable. And in doing such work to the best of his ability he is serving, not only his family but the community as well as keeping a commandment of God. In the gospel of Jesus Christ we have always, been taught to regard work as honorable and the worker as worthy of his hire. The Joy of Work It is unfortunate that so many men feel that the work which they are doing is not worth while. Such an attitude deprives them of the real joy of labor. In requiring that man should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, God surely did not intend to impose a curse of drudgery upon him. Work is a blessing not only because of the material things procured through it, but because of its wholesome effect upon the mind and body of the worker. But this effect comes only when the work is really enjoyed, when the worker feels that he is really contributing something to human welfare. Man by nature is active and loves to
