[Vol10 | September 1923 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: TWO PRAYERS]
TWO PRAYERS 441 joined. There was no official conductor; no paid chorus; no orchestral accompaniment; just these honest country people singing. It grew upon me that this was not a song; it was a prayer, welling up from the hearts of these good women, when the words, "God be with you, 'til we meet again" came timidly, sweetly and tremulously from a thousand throats. I have heard the great music of Wagner rendered by the artists of Munich, and have been enraptured by the masters of song in Grand Opera at Paris, and have thrilled when the voice of Caruso lifted in majestic grandeur above a singing congregation of twenty thousand, in Madison Square Garden, as he sang "America." But never have I been so deeply touched as I was by the voices of these good people that night as they sang "God be with you, till we meet again," for it seemed as if He who sets the great stage of Life, had set this scene, and had turned streams of moonlight down through the foliage of the great old trees, and here and there, had so shot a moonbeam, that it touched a bowed and grizzled old head, from which a quavering voice joined devoutly in the refrain. It was not a song; it was a prayer. Editor's Note——The above article was sent by Mr. Hanchett to President Heber J. Grant with the request: "Do me the favor to read this." President Grant was so impressed with the beauty of Mr. Hanchett's tribute, that he wired it in full to President Harding, then at Tacoma on his way to Alaska.) Mrs. Warren G. Harding On the 27th of July, of this year, Mrs. Warren G. Harding wrote from Seattle, Washington, thanking President Clarissa S. Williams for the flowers presented to her while in Salt Lake City, on behalf of the Relief Society. Her letter reads: "The beautiful corsage bouquet which you and the Latter-day Saint Relief Society sent me during my visit to Salt Lake City gave me much pleasure, as did the kind wishes with which it was sent, and I would be grateful if you would convey to your members our cordial thanks. "With warm appreciation of your thought, I am "Sincerely yours, "Florence Kling Harding." Ten days had not elapsed from the time Mrs. Harding wrote this letter until she was crossing the continent, bowed in grief, accompanying the remains of her beloved and distinguished husband.
