[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: WOMANS EXPONENT]

		IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XLIX.
	AS might be expected Conway Bland
passed his examinations, difficult though
they were, for his training had been
thorough, and entered the University with
good expectations of success while Sidney
Barrington was still in England, looking
after legal matters, and trying to induce
young Walton to return with him to
America, or to enter one of the colleges and
fit himself for some sort of life-work; but
he had a decided preference for sporting, and
being handsome and fascinating, and meet-
ing with men who were of like propensities,
he was won over by them to accept invita-
tions, to go here and there, and would not
listen to Mr. Barrington’s persuasions, not
even though his sister and aunt, plead with
him by letter, not to remain longer away
from them. His step-mother was anxious
too that he should leave England, she
dreaded the responsibility, and also the ex-
pense; she had found him rather un-
scrupulous, and knowing the kind of com-
pany he was keeping, she added her en-
treaties to those of Sidney Barrington, to
induce him to break his engagements and go
to his own kindred. All to no purpose, he
determined to take his own course.
	Sidney dreaded to go without him, feel-
ing sure Mrs. Harrison would be disap-
pointed, but he was compelled to do so
nevertheless, as his stay had already been
greatly prolonged. Mrs. Harrison grieved
over Edward deeply, and sometimes felt she
must go to him, and see what her presence
would do. He seldom answered the loving
and tender letters from home, so absorbed
was he in the gaieties of the fashionable
world he found ready to welcome him.
Through the influence of unprincipled men
he obtained possession of much of the
property, which rightfully belonged to his
cousin Edward Hilliard, and afterwards
managed to defraud them all sufficiently to
live at the old castle, and later on, years
after, at the death of Lady Walton, he came
into possession of Walton Hall, so that he
was master of two estates, (such as they
were.) He kept up gay bachelor’s apart-
ments, and was not given to spending
money in any legitimate way.

[column 2]
	After a few years Conway graduated-
with the highest honors and sailed for home;
he did not even make an attempt to see
Edward Walton, nor did he know of his
disgraceful doings.
	Conway’s return was hailed with joy by
all the friends of the family, and the mother
though happy and proud of the handsome
and accomplished young Doctor, from
whom she had been so long separated, yet
could not but treat him still as her boy, and
soon found an opportunity to inquire what
he meant to do in the future.
	“Why, mother I intend to practice my
profession right here at home, among those
who have always known me, and who,
many of them, knew my father’s reputation,
by tradition, at least, and in due time I
shall marry, with your consent, my cousin
Anna, whom I have loved all my life, and
who returns my affection after her own shy
fashion, but does not know it is more than
cousinly.’’
	“My boy, how happy it makes me to
know you are satisfied with your surround-
ings here, and are content to build up a
practice where you can do so much good in
an unostentatious way; so like your father,
and I know he would approve your course;
but for Anna I cannot agree with you—it
seems to me you are over-confident—Anna
knows nothing whatever of men, she is en-
tirely unsophisticated, and you, my boy,
have been out in the great world, mingling
with men of science and skilled in all sorts
of arts; we hardly know, as yet, how
suitable you would be for a husband—and
Anna is innocence itself, beware how you
approach her upon any matter of the heart,
she could not understand you, you must be
as discreet with her, and as cautious, as you
would be in handling the most delicate and
sharpest instrument known in your profes-
sion.”
	“Do you, my own mother, into whose
bosom I have poured all my childish sor-
rows and disappointments, do you doubt
my honor, or my discretion? You of all
women in the world, who have had such an
extraordinary experience with men, and
been their adviser, their arbitrator in a way,
think of Sir Edward (my great grand-
uncle,) no other woman, I have been told,
could do what you were able to—and to no
other woman did he open his heart, as he
did to you—when you were only a girl.”
	“To be sure Conway, my dear boy, I
have had great experience, mostly with
men, I know less of women, not having
been brought into close association with
many, except my cousin Anna, who was
not like other women, I’m quite sure of
that—but what can that have to do with
you, and Anna; you must wait—you must
not mention the subject of love or marriage
to her, establish yourself in your practice
and see what follows; believe me, at my
age, I know best what is right and proper.”
	Conway Bland was never so dissatisfied
before, he had come home with his mind
fully made up to ask his cousin Anna to be
his wife, and had not dreamed of any
hindrance, and especially from his mother;
she was not his own cousin, he had thought


[Column 1]
the matter all out—his mother could not
object on the plea of relationship, the one
dread he had while away was, that Edward
Hilliard should be in love with her—as he
fancied every man must be, who knew her,
but soon after coming home, he had noticed
them, and felt satisfied they were only like
cousins—while he could scarcely rest out of
her sight,and he believed she felt as he did,
for her face would light up momentarily
when he came near.
	And sure enough it was true, she scarcely
knew it, and yet she felt he was all the
world to her—she almost ceased to think of
her brother, whom she had loved with all
a sister’s pride. Mrs. Harrison had taken
great care and pains with Anna as well as
her own daughter Clarice and the two
girls were beautiful and gifted, like and un-
like, in many respects. They had been
watched and guarded almost too much,
their education had been altogether under
Mrs. Harrison’s supervision, and Sidney
Barrington had instilled such religious
principles as were calculated to help them
bear life’s ills with patience and resignation,
if they were not too many, and too terrible
In fact they were well equipped for young
ladies of that period, with prospective for-
tunes. Clarice like her father possessed
wonderful conversational qualities, Anna
was more reticent, neither of them had the
great strength of character of Jane Con-
way—but both were dazzlingly beautiful,
and seemingly unaware of the fact.
Clarice though much younger scarcely
seemed so, having developed womanly
traits earlier, and being what is termed
old-fashioned’, in her ways and manner,
it was she who first discovered Anna’s
secret.
	“Mamma,’’she said, in her childish way,
one day when Anna and Conway were out
riding, “Anna is in love with my brother
and if you don’t approve you’d better look
into it—I’ve seen it ever since he came
home, she has no thought for any one but
him, and she is growing very distant with
me, I wish you would speak to her about it,
I’m quite sure its time.”
	Mrs. Harrison looked surprised and in-
quired, “since you are so wise, my dear,
and can see so clearly into people’s affairs,
what do you propose your mamma should
say to these young people? Am I to go
and accuse them of being in love on your
authority?”
	“If you don’t speak I shall tell my
brother it is time he spoke to you about his
doings with Anna—I should not be allowed
to go here and there and everywhere with
a young man as she does, Conway himself
would soon say it was not proper, why they
sit every morning in the drawing-room,
when you are busy, and actually doing
nothing, Anna never reads now, she never
goes out unless he is with her.” And at
the moment here they came and Clarice who
was too impulsive to be discreet burst out
with, “Dr. Conway I’ve been telling
mamma about you and Anna and that she
ought to separate you two for reasons,
and—” “And for what reasons?” Inter-
rupted her brother, while Anna almost
fainting with alarm, sank down on
a chair and burst into tears. “And now
little sister as you seem to know what ought
to be, I’ll make a clean breast of it, and
tell you my mind, I am in love with Anna,
and have told her so this very morning,
and only death can divide us. Now what
are you going to say about that, we came

[Column 2]
in to ask, mamma’s consent, and yours
later on, but as you have taken the affair
up and pronounced judgment—we will
listen to you first, if mamma is willing.”
	Taken completely by surprise Mrs. Har-
rison was unable to speak for a few
moments, but Clarice did not lose her
presence of mind for a minute, and with
her characteristic, girlish assurance and free-
dom of speech, opened her mind much to
Anna’s discomfort, “Well Dr. Conway since
you are in love with Anna its all right,
what I was afraid of was, that you were
not, and that she was bestowing her af-
fections upon one, who loved his profession
more than he loved a beautiful woman.”
It was vain for the Doctor to try to restrain
Clarice, she knew more about love or
fancied she did than either one of the family;
and her mother was so surprised, both at
the torrent of feeling displayed by her little
daughter, and the sudden denoument of
her son and Anna Walton, that she was
speechless.
	Her cousin Anna's escapades flashed into
her mind and she recalled the impetuosity
of her disposition, and though little Anna
had never betrayed such violent emotions,
yet her aunt inwardly trembled, and con-
cluded the best course would be to allow
these young people to have their own way.
Very little was said except consent given,
and preparations were soon in progress for
the proposed marriage. Everything was
done in a simple way, though Mrs. Har-
rison knew how to make the best of all
their belongings, and the bride was not
lacking in elegant laces, pearls and jewelry,
left by her mother, which had been put
away carefully until Anna could appreciate
them. Clarice interested herself even more
than the bride in the wedding apparel, and
the young Doctor and his cousin Edward
as well as uncle Sidney, busied themselves
with the new dwelling place.
	During the weeks previous to the wed-
ding when all the household were very
busy, or at night when others were asleep,
Mrs. Harrison reasoned with herself on the
matter, and queried whether she had been
the true mother to these two young girls,
whose lives and ways were a perfect
mystery to her, though associated with
them daily from their infancy; in her cousin
Anna’s case the French maids and gover-
nesses had been blamed, Sir. Edward’s
neglect of his daughter had been a factor
considered in her waywardness, she had
grown up under peculiar circumstances and
influences, but where was the lack in the
case of Anna Walton? And was it not
likely that Clarice might also fall desperate-
ly in love, even now her affections might
unconsciously be straying from her own
mother, and Mrs. Harrison shuddered as
she reflected what that would mean.
	“Afterall I do not understand women,
nor the potent power of love in the hearts
of the young, I blamed uncle Edward for
not knowing womens’ natures better and
here am I, at my time of life a woman too
who has made a study of the subject, and
find myself outwitted by my own child-
ren;” ’twas thus Mrs. Harrison soliloquized,
and there was no one to whom she could
look for sympathy or advice. Yes there
was Sidney, but he could not know any-
thing of young people’s affairs especially
women, and she thought of his barren life,
and in her heart she pitied his loneliness,
how was it she had never thought of it be-
fore, she said to herself, “he has given his

[Column 3]
life to help others, mine, my loved ones,”
she repeated aloud, “unselfishly without,
hope of reward what grandeur of senti-
ment,” and she began to feel somewhat of
a culprit to have received so much at his
hands, and made no return. No she would
not trouble him with her feelings, she
would be more watchful now of Clarice,
and of Edward who was as refined and
delicate as a girl,and who inclined to moods,
musical and gay at times, despondent and
melancholy by fits and starts.
	The marriage of Conway Bland and
Anna Walton was duly solemnized in the 
Church near by, Sidney Barrington
officiating in the simple orthodox
ceremony. It was very sad for Mrs.
Harrison, but she bore up bravely and
only the few intimate friends who witnessed
the ceremony were bidden to the feast which
had been prepared. How unlike the
elaborate wedding of Anna’s mother; there
was no wedding journey, for these people
conformed to the Puritan ways and
methods they went quietly to their own
home and passed their honey-moon in visit-
ing the sick and comforting with gentle
words and glad hearts, and with such
delicacies as were available, the afflicted
ones who felt their presence almost a bene-
diction. But while their lives swept on
peacefully, Mrs. Harrison was tortured
with anxiety and misgivings. Clarice was
wilful and outspoken, singularly gifted too
in some respects, and always longing for
the unattainable; every now and then her
mother was obliged to succumb to some
ridiculous whim, or fancy; and each time
she resolved to be stronger in the future;
she who had controlled the obstinate
Baronet, could not cope with her own
daughter, do what she would.
	It is said truly there are none so blind as
those who will not see, and though a serious
love affair was going on in her home, Mrs.
Harrison was ignorant of the fact. Sidney
Barrington wasin the confidence of Edward
Hilliard and the boy opened his heart to
the minister who had been his tutor for so
many years. “You know I’m alone in the
world” he said, “for though Aunt Jane is
like a mother to me in one sense, yet she is
not my mother, nor do I know the true
meaning of either father or mother, some-
times I feel I must go away where I shall
not trouble anyone, and brood over my sor-
rows, and yet uncle Sidney I cannot bring
myself to say farewell to Clarice. I am
sure her mother will never consent to our
union and I have not even dared to tell her
of my love; I saw how Aunt Jane grieved
when Conway and Anna were married, she
has never been herself since that time, she
goes about like one in a dream, tell me
uncle Sidney, what shall I do?”
	Thus appealed to, Sidney Barrington
could not but sympathize with his dearest
pupil, for indeed he was, and he promised
to consider the matter, “but,” he added,
“never run away, it is only the weakest
men who do that, ‘faint heart never won
fair lady.” And Edward promised to wait
awhile until his uncle should make up his
mind what was best. Ere he turned to go,
for they were out under the great elms,
he said inadvertently, “uncle Sidney were
you ever in love and have you been disap-
pointed?” No one had ever put such a
question to the minister before and he
winced under such sharp questioning, and
Edward, noticing his reluctance, said, “O,
never mind, if you do not care to tell me,


only I thought perhaps it might help me
to know how you were cured.” And Ed-
ward walked away, leaving his uncle pac-
ing to and fro under the elms. He called
him back ere he reached the doorway, and
said, “I’ll tell you a story, my boy, it may
help you, it may give you courage.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


