[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION. | Author: Unknown]

		ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATION.
	THIS great stateswoman (Mrs. Stanton)
has reached four score years in the scale of
time, but in the scale of progression who
can fathom the heights she has attained.
Looking backward over her long and event-
ful and extraordinary life, what wonderful
lessons may be learned from it. Her birth-
day was observed in many places in some
way calculated to do honor to the woman
and the cause she represents. As yet but
only the dispatches sent out by the associat-
ed press have reached here, of what was
done in New York at the celebration on the
12th of November.
	The entertainment was in the Metropoli-
tan Opera House, and was in the hands of
a very efficient Committee and under the
auspices of the National Council of Women
of the United States.
	Mrs. Stanton was born in Johnstown,
New York. Her father, Judge Daniel
Cady, was a distinguished and, it is said,
the oldest Judge who ever sat on an Ameri-
can bench, resigning at the age of 84 years.
Her mother also comes of a celebrated
family, her father was Col. James Living-
ston, who fired into the Vulture, which sent
the British vessel down the river and caused
Andre’s capture by our men.
	Mrs. Stanton with Lucretia Mott, the
venerable Quaker, called the first “Wo-
man’s Rights Convention” ever known; it
met at Seneca Falls, New York, July 19th
and 20th, 1848. A day which will be ever
memorable in the history of the country,
for it has brought about such changed con-
ditions to women and in public sentiment
and affairs, as no other meeting since the
days of the Declaration of Independence.
	Mrs. Stanton’s labors for half a century
can scarcely be estimated, but the results of
that labor upon the world will never be
obliterated, it is an immortal tribute to her,
and to the women who have participated
and assisted in the work, especially Susan
B. Anthony her life long friend and able
co-worker.
	Mrs. Stanton has ever been a model
housekeeper, a devoted wife and mother, a
good illustration of this is given in a little
circumstance which happened in Albany
when some women who were opposed to

[Column 2]
her, asked “how she could spend so much
time from home and leave her children.”
She replied “that she had two children and
a maid with her at the hotel, and it took
no more time for her to give her lecture
than for them to listen.”
	At the celebration for Mrs. Stanton in
New York all lines of women’s progressive
work, were represented by able speakers,
and veterans of the suffrage cause were in
attendance.  One special object of the re-
union was to bring together these representa-
tives and pioneers to show what has been
accomplished during the last half century.
	The fact of Utah coming in as a free
state with equal suffrage just previous to
the reunion, is something to be proud of,
and as there were two Utah people present,
Samuel W. Richards and wife, it is most
likely that Utah came in for a fair share of
the honors on this great occasion.
	Susa Young Gates, of Provo, in thinking
how Utah could be appropriately repre-
sented at the reunion, suggested an onyx
ballot-box of native material and trimmed
with silver, which abounds in the Utah hills.
Accordingly the box was made of exact
proportions and mounted with silver, and
engraved “Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Nov.
12, ’95,” on the padlock, and on the plate
“Presented by Utah women.” Both the
National Woman’s Relief Society and the
Young Ladies’ National Mutual Improve-
ment Association contributed their propor-
tion to the Council, towards the expenses
of the entertainment.
	No doubt the report from Brother and
Sister Richards will reach Salt Lake before
long and full particulars will be published
in the home papers.
	Mrs. Stanton’s whole life is a forcible
argument in favor of equal suffrage,  Al-
though Mrs. Stanton has been such a de-
voted home-keeper it is said it “would
probably take an entire column to give the
mere list of the societies she had joined, en-
couraged or aided, the movements and or-
ganizations, which she has created or
generaled.”


