SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.

	Minutes of special meeting of Salt Lake
County Woman's Suffrage Association, held
in the 14th Ward Relief Society Hall, Jan.
13, 1891. Mrs. S. M. Kimball, presiding; the
corresponding secretary, Miss Emma Finch,
was called to act as secretary. Mrs. Elizabeth
Price was appointed chaplain. Mrs. Kimball
spoke of the nature of the organization and
the principles underlying the subject of suf-
frage.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards was then called upon
and said she was a suffragist at heart, sug-
gested the reading of the constitution and
by-laws, for the benefit of those present, and
said she felt interested in the work, not only
on her own account, but for all women who
were heads of families. If we educate our-
selves, we will then be companionable with
our husbands and sons.
	Mrs. Nellie R. Webber said she felt interested
in the work, and also felt that the study of
politics would broaden the ideas of women.
Wyoming had stepped forward in this direc-
tion and she believed great good would result.
	Mrs. S M. Kimball nominated Mrs. Phoebe
Beattie as delegate to Washington, from Salt
Lake Co. W. S. A. Stated that the member-
ship fee was fifty cents, also that the names
were to be sent to Washington, and a fee of
ten cents to accompany each name. The
meeting was then given into the hands of Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, Pres. S. L. County W. S.
A., and Mrs. Kimball was excused; suggest-
ed that the National Constitution be a subject
of study, also Robert's Rules of Order.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell said she felt inter-
ested in the work, and thought all should
be active in making the Association a success;
felt the time would come when we would do
more good to each other on a broader platform
than we had done in the past.
	Mrs. Lucy A. Clark of Farmington, stated
that the W. S. A., at Farmington, had held
meetings with the gentlemen once a week and
had had very interesting times; formed them-
selves into a branch of the Legislature and
had passed a bill through, and had learned
more than if they had been studying alone;
suggested the reading of a pamphlet entitled:
"Freedom's Conquest." Hoped we would pro-
gress and use the franchise well when we
should receive it again. Referred to Wyom-
ing's success.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall felt encouraged, and
knew we were becoming better educated in the
work, as all had sustained Mrs. Beattie as dele-
gate, it would require work on the part of all
to send her to Washington. Learned more
while in Washington than she could learn by
years of study and reading, and felt that
women could and should stand side by side
with man. The politics of the day would be
purified by women if they were allowed the
franchise. We should pray for the delegates
and sustain them in every way we could.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards then read parts of the
National American Constitution, and explain-
ed what was expected from members.
	Dr. Maggie Shipp, made a few remarks,
which were followed by suggestions from Mrs.
Ann D. Groesbeck and Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie;
the meeting adjourned until the third Tuesday
in the month, Jan. 20, at 2 p. m., in the 14th
Ward Relief Society Hall.
	E. Finch, Secretary, pro tem.

[Column 2]

	The S. L. Co. W. S. A. met as per adjourn-
ment in the 14th Ward Relief Society Hall
at 2 p. m., Tuesday Jan. 20, 1891. Pres.
Elizabeth Howard in the chair; prayer by the
chaplain, Maria W. Wilcox, minutes of previ-
ous meeting read by the secretary, names of
members presented and voted upon; accepted
unanimously.
	Pres. Howard supposed that all present
were familiar with the object of the meeting;
women had for years been held back; we live
in a day of advancement. She had the privilege
of meeting with the ladies of Wyoming in
public gatherings, and had advised them to
vote for good men to fill official positions
whether they were Republicans or Democrats.
We should try and encourage others to join the
Association. From this time on our regular
meeting will be held on the third Tuesday in
each month, the place of meeting will be desig-
nated in the call issued. As Mrs. Phoebe Y.
Beattie has been elected as our delegate to
represent us in Washington, it has been pro-
posed that we sustain her by our prayers.
Spoke at some length upon the subject of
bribery.
	Mrs. Beattie thanked the sisters cordially
for the honor conferred in nominating her to
such a responsible position; it would be an
entire new experience, and she would need all
the support the ladies could give her.
	Mrs. Margaret Mitchell was interested in
suffrage, thought we were beginning to reap
the results of our labors in this work; it would
be a good plan to have a committee to get up
subjects to be presented before the meeting.
Thought women were qualified to take many
positions heretofore occupied by men; a prom-
inent man had said to her that women had
proved themselves honest in their work. One
woman that had been taken into the Govern-
ment Office, who did more work than the men
employed there, had just half the pay—and it
would always be so until women had a voice
in making the laws.
	A poem by Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee
was read by Mrs. C. I. Kirby, who also made
some remarks upon the subject of suffrage,
and related some of her own experiences when
abroad in the world.
	Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze made what she called
her infant speech, as she had never spoken
upon the subject before; related an instance
which took place in her childhood, in which
she considered herself outraged; had noticed
that it was the most intelligent people who
had advocated universal suffrage, good moves
slowly; women themselves are not awake to
the importance of the subject; she then gave
some happy illustrations of her position on the
question.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball explained some matters
in reference to a large membership, and Mrs.
M. Y. Dougall gave some of the points defi-
nitely.
	Mrs. Janet Morris endorsed what had been
said by the former speakers; and made the
remark that if that was Mrs. Freeze first
speech, she would like to hear her last.
	Mrs. M. E. Irvine was a born suffragist, and
honored the women who had stood forward
amidst persecution in defense of those princi-
pics, thought there should be plans for carry-
ing out a programme.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball was pleased with the
interest manifested, liked the idea of some
practical plan for study, thought a mock legis-
lation as had been suggested was pretty good,
but she would like a city council to become
acquainted with municipal affairs first. Sug-
gested that we should drop the title of Mrs.,
and be plain Elizabeth Howard, &c.,
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp felt anxious as one
of the Executive Committee, to keep up the
meetings and not let the interest die out.
Related a little of her own experience in get-


ting a living; the reasons given for some dis-
tinction between men and women; for instance
men Doctors command a larger fee than
women, but when women ride on a railroad
they pay the same price, or if one goes to a
restaurant for dinner, there is no difference in
the price, and this is true in many cases. Men
and women are charged alike.
	Pres. Howard presented some business to the
meeting, after which it was adjourned for one
month. Quite a number of ladies came for-
ward and paid the membership fee.
		C. C. RALEIGH, Secretary.


