UPON THE WOMEN OF TO-DAY.

	Perhaps no Queen in the world's history
has to-day more claim upon woman in the
various phases of her existence than Queen
Isabella of Spain. In the first place, she ap-
peals to wives and mothers; for, through the
thirty-five years of her married life, in which
she had one son and four daughters, she fully
experienced the joys, cares, ambitions and
sorrows of a true wife and mother. In all
this, in an age when immorality abounded in
the land, which, according to Prescott, was
probably the only one in Christendom where
concubinage was ever sanctioned by law, not
a cloud shadows her virtue.
	In the second place, her relation to scholarly
women and to the intellectual development of
Spain during her thirty year's reign, allies her
to the educated or literary women of the day.
Her instructor in the Latin language was a
lady named Beatriz de Galindo, sometimes
called La Latina. Prescott says that it was
due in part to her own example of study as
well as by her personal attendance on the
academic examinations, that the women of
Spain, as in no other country of which he was
aware, took part in the public exercises of the
gymnasium and delivered lectures from the
chairs of the universities. Dona Lucia de
Medrano publicly lectured on the Latin clas-
sics in the universities of Salamanca; and
another, Dona Francisca de Lebrija, daughter
of the historian of that name, filled the chair
of rhetoric at Alcala. This university at
Alcala, famous from having executed the
"most stupendous literary enterprise of that
age," the Polyglot version of the Scriptures,
was founded and sustained by the Queen's
right hand man, Cardinal Ximenes.
	Besides endowing a convent in Toledo with
a library consisting principally of manuscripts,
Isabella encouraged the then new art of print-
ing by having some works of her subjects
printed at her own expense, and by granting
privileges to those engaged in the art. While
interested in the education of her own chil-
dren, she did not forget the young nobility.
Through her request and support, Peter


[Column 1]

﻿Martyr had a successful school for their in-
struction. Referring to his royal mistress as
the "pattern of every exalted virtue," he says
of his work, "My house all day long swarms
with noble youths reclaimed from ignoble
pursuits to those of letters."
	But Queen Isabella is allied also to the par-
ticularly progressive women of the day by her
independent spirit as a ruler; for, though lov-
ing her husband, the King, she insisted upon
having an equal share in all governmental
acts. The likeness of each was stamped on
the royal seal, the names of each found on all
public documents; in short, independent wills
working in harmony was the motto for action.
That Spain was better for this perfect inde-
pendence, no reader of the reign of Ferdinand
and Isabella can deny. The Queen also allied
herself to progress, when, as a pioneer aboli-
tionist, she commanded to be immediately set
free the Indians, Columbus had caused to be
slaves. Then her intense longing, even in
her dying hours, for their conversion to the
Christian religion, her efforts in sending mis-
sionaries in their behalf, bring her especially
near to-day to the women of the Woman's
Board of Foreign Missions. Her devotion to
her church—the only church of that age—al-
though it became the cause of her weakness in
yielding, even though after a long reluctance,
to the horrors of the Inquisition, links her to
the devotees and advocates of church worship.
	Isabella appeals also to the philanthropic
women of the day in her efforts for moral re-
form; her temperance in diet, seldom or never
tasting wine; her simplicity in dress—aside
from royal occasions; her expenditures of
money in the erection of hospitals and churches,
some of which she adorned with embroideries,
the work of her hands; and in her last testa-
ment, whereby she ordered a plain and unos-
tentatious funeral that money might be saved
for the poor.
	But this womanly Queen becomes of special
interest to the women of the past Sanitary
Commission, and of its child, the present Relief
Corps, because of being the first person on
record to form a regular camp hospital. Visit-
ing, as was her wont, the camps of her soldiers
to relieve their wants, she ordered one day a
number of large tents to be always ready for
the sick and wounded. These, called the
"Queen's Hospitals," were furnished with
medicines, and proper attendants at her own
expense. "Her presence at these camps," says
Peter Martyr, "seemed at once to gladden and
reanimate our spirits, drooping under long
vigils, dangers and fatigue." Another writer,
who was present, says, "from the moment of
her appearance a change seemed to come over
the scene....all seemed disposed to reconcilia-
tion and peace." "When," says Prescott "the
soldiers beheld her directing their counsels,
sharing their fatigues and dangers, and dis-
playing all the comprehensive intellectual
powers of the other sex, they looked up to her
as to some superior being, with feelings far
more exalted than those of mere loyalty. The
chivalrous heart of the Spaniard did homage
to her as to his tutelar saint, and she held a
control over her people such as no man could
have acquired in any age—and probably no
woman in an age and country less romantic."
	While Isabella thus appeals especially to the
women of America to-day, her sympathetic aid
to Columbus in the time of his greatest dis-
couragement which enabled him to discover
our world, and her loyalty to him to the end,
despite the distrust of her husband and royal
counselors, make her a shining figure of the
fifteenth century to be loved and honored by
every true American citizen.
	Our national writers have already sounded
a clear note in her behalf, for to Prescott's
praise and Copper's delightful pen-picture (in
Mercedes of Castile) one adds with pleasure

[Column 2]

Washington Irving's tribute that she was "one
of the purest and most beautiful characters in
all history."—Elizabeth Porter Gould, in
Queen, Isabella Journal.


