THE EMPIRE OF WOMEN.

	At the Sorosis luncheon on Monday after-
noon, Mrs. E. A. Allen contended with
much bitterness that "a woman's empire is
bounded by her youth," and that the bound
is set by the fickle fancy of man. As soon as
a woman's youthful beauty fades, said Mrs.
Allen, she loses her chance in business, her
popularity on the stage, and her place in social
life, simply because men are no longer inter-
ested in her.
	That was a very remarkable way of talking
to such a company as Mrs. Allen addressed.
Sorosis, as we understand it, is made up chiefly
of women who are engaged in various activi-
ties, have won unusual distinction in them,
and most of whom have passed beyond the
first flush of youth. Does any one of them
believe that she has reached the bound of her
empire and has lost her power to sway the
hearts of men? Does Mrs. Allen beleive it of
herself?
	The period of life at which women have
always exercised the most influence in society,
and over men more especially, comes after
their youth has gone by and their beauty has
developed with the development of their minds
and character. Such women are the rulers
of society and fashion in every civilized capital
of the world; and those who are younger must
be their mere followers, waiting until the ex-
perience and the attractions of greater matur-
ity shall enable them also to enter upon the
exercise of that authority.
	It is the same on the dramatic stage, and
also in the various professions into which
women have entered. Nearly all the actresses
of distinction at the present moment are women
who are no longer youthful, except in their
hearts, and the girls of the stage cannot hope
to compete with them except by study and by
the knowledge which comes from greater ex-
perience only. Even the most successful per-


formers of youthful parts are women who look
back on their own youth; and thereby they
show that age has not diminished their power
to influence the sentiment of men, but has
rather increased it.
	In the other professions women, like men,
must look on youth as a mere period of ap-
prenticeship. They must wait for the wisdom
and the skill which only experience can bring;
and if they have them to the same degree as
men with whom they compete, they will be as
successful. Youth will not long help them in
that contest, and age alone will not drive them
from it.
	Neither does youth have the advantage in
the matrimonial competition which Mrs. Allen
pretends to assume. Widows of mature years
may be the most dangerous rivals of young
maidens; and there is abundant proof in these
days that divorced women are not incapable
of despotic sway over the hearts of men even
after they have got well beyond the beauty of
mere youth.
	There is no bound to the empire of women,
except as they set it themselves.—N. Y. Sun,
Jan. 8, 1891.


