MISCELLANEOUS.

	The greatest of faults, I should say, is to be
conscious of none.—Carlyle.
	Peace is the evening star of the soul
as virtue is its sun, and the two are never far
apart.
	Give what you have.  To some one it may
be better than you dare to think.—Longfellow.
	It is a good rule to be deaf when a slanderer
begins to talk.
	The real man is one who always find ex-
cuses for others, but never excuses himself.—
H.W. Beecher
	It is employment, says Daniel Webster, that
 makes people happy; and, says Jean Paul, I
have fire-proof, perennial enjoyments called
employments.
	Great is the power of eloquence; but never
is it so great as when it pleads along with
nature; and the culprit is a child strayed from
his duty and returned to it again with tears.—
Sterne.
	A good book and a good woman are ex-
cellent things for those who know how to ap-
preciate their value. There are men, however
who judge of both by the beauty of their covering.
	Faith at most but makes a hero, but love
 makes a saint; faith can but put us above the
world, but love brings us under God's throne;
faith can but make us sober, but love makes
 us happy.—Cardinal Newman.
	As I like to see a young man who has some-
thing old about him, so I like to see an old
man in whom there remains something of the
youth. He who follows this maxim may be-
come an old man in body, but never in heart.
Cicero.
	The road to eminence and power from
obscure condition ought not to be made too
easy, nor a thing too much of course. If rare
merit be the rarest of all rare things it ought
to pass through some sort of probation. The
temple of honor ought to be seated on an
eminence. If it be open through virtue let it
be remembered, too, that virtue is never tried
but by some difficulty and some struggle.—
Burke.


Mrs. Whitelaw Reid, wife of the American
minister at Paris, who is, with her husband,
making a tour of the East was honored by
the Sultan at Constantinople conferring upon
her the order of the Shefkat, the highest
Turkish decoration that can be given to a
woman.


