		DAVIS STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake was held at East
Bountiful, Oct. 24, 1890. President Susan
Grant presiding. On the stand were the Pres.
of Stake, Mrs. Susan Grant and Counselors,
Sister Z. D. H. Young of Salt Lake City, Bro.
John Hess, Bro. William Muir and others.
After the usual opening exercises, the minutes
of the previous meeting were read and ap-
proved.
	President Grant said she was pleased to
meet the sisters in the capacity of a Confer-
ence. It has been moved and seconded that
we sustain Sister Zina D. H. Young as Presi-
dent over the Releif Society in the world, and
Sister Jane S. Richards and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith as her Counselors. Unanimously
sustained. Stake officers also presented and
unanimously sustained. Sister Grant said she
thought it best to represent Presidents of the
different branches in their own Wards. I can
testify that I have been blessed in meeting
with the different branches of R. S. in this
Stake. I think we are all trying to do the
best we can—can say that I and my counsel-
ors are united and trying to do our duty.
We will now hear from the Presidents of the
different branches. Pres. Jane Muir, Pres. 
Lucina Sessions, and Pres. Margaret Randall
each gave very favorable reports of their res-
pective branches.
	Bro. Wm. Muir, being called upon said, I
feel to add my mite to your Conference, it
really does me good to look at these aged
sisters, I think they are the ones who stand at
the helm—they are the ones who have rocked
the cradles, and their course has been onward,
and the Latter day Saints do not stop pro-
gressing. Compare the present condition of
our people with sixty years ago. It is what we
do we get credit for, and not what we leave
undone. Gave very good advice in regard to
storing wheat, and advised the sisters to do
their work on business principles,and “I want to
say, .God bless you, and can say you are
blessed.”
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young then addressed the
meeting—we have heard so much good, I hope
I shall not say anything to make you forget it.
I do enjoy the blessings of the Gospel—my
heart aches for those who do not come to meet-
ing, for we need the bread of life for our spirits.
By and by, when pay day comes, those who do

[column 3]
not attend to their duties will want just as
much as those who do, but they will fall short.
If our thoughts are pure our actions will be
pure. I am proud of my sister’s integrity and
their efforts to do good. If we speak lightly of
a man it destroys the influence of that man.
Made a few remarks in regard to the manifesto,
said it was like electricity to her when it was
read; but it is all right, and the authorities
of this Church are all right and God will bless
them. Teach your children to take care of
their health, the bondage of the flesh is not the
bondage of the soul. Advised the sisters to take
the EXPONENT. I am talking too long. God
bless you, Amen.
	Pres. John Hess expressed his pleasure and 
gratification for what he had heard, and was
pleased to be present. This organization is a 
very important one, it was organized in a very
early day when our beloved Prophet Joseph
was moved upon to organize the sisters in a
Relief Society, and I do not think the brethren
have supported it as they should have done.
The prosperity of this society depends upon the
unity of the people. I believe there is as much
expected of this society as any other, and you
are doing much good, but how much more
good might be done if there was more interest
taken. Who are profited by this meeting?
Those who are here and not those who are ab-
sent. When I contemplate the carelessness we
manifest as a people, I wonder at the prosperity
we enjoy. It is expected that the Sisters will
relieve the poor. When they do this, it is with-
out expecting a pecuniary reward, but to feel
that they have done their duty. I am glad
that I am here, I know the spirit of the Lord
and the spirit of humility are here. You that
are faithful use your influence with others, the
Lord our God has been good to us. He has
given us our agency and is not going to take it
from us; we are lacking in our faith in God,
but He bears with us. When the wicked gain a
point I think it is for our experience and our
good. I think it would be advisable for the
Presidents and Counselors to visit the people.
I pray God to bless this organization and our
aged sister, President Zina D. H. Young.
	Pres. S. Grant, we truly have had a feast,
and we will now adjourn our meeting until 2
p.m. Singing, "Come let us anew,”&c. Benedic-
tion by P. G. Sessions.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing,
“We are not ashamed to own our Lord.”—
Prayer by Pres. Hess. Singing. Pres. Hor-
tensia Leonard, Pres. Jane Blood, Pres. Phoebe
Atkinson and Pres. Elizabeth Watts then re-
ported the branches of the R. S. over which
they preside, and made very interesting and
useful remarks.
	Pres. Z.D.H. Young said, I will suggest that
the Presidents and Counselors visit those who
do not come to meeting. When the teachers
visit they should comfort the sick and afflicted,
let us be faithful to our covenants and to each
other, there are many healed by faith and 
prayer; referred to circumstances where the
sick had been healed. There is nothing greater
to me than our Primary Associations; they are
such a benefit to our children. Don't let our
hearts be fearful, for this Gospel is here to stay.
Joseph said when he organized the Relief
Society we had no conception of the good that
would be done through this organization; the
Sisters are doing a great and glorious work,
we must overcome this hurried feeling; it wears
us out. Refered to the Temple work for our
dead; and spoke of the Lord inspiring the
people to get up their genealogies. Let the
branches of the R.S. visit each other and the
Presidents and Counselors visit each other.
	Bro. Perrigrine Sessions said, how many
there are taken up with the cares of life; we
make covenants with our Heavenly Father
and they are often broken, why is it? it is be-
cause we are not faithful and diligent, and are


too much taken up with the things of this
earth; can we expect the Almighty to pour out
His Spirit if we break the covenants we have
made with him; when we attend to our duties
we have the Spirit of the Lord with us, let us
keep our covenants; be faithful and do the work
for our dead. Sisters be particular in train-
ing your children and be humble before the
Lord.
	Sister Aurelia Rogers, President of the Pri-
mary Association of Farmington, Counselor
Mary Clark and Counselor Lucinda Brown
spoke very interestingly, and gave good in-
struction.
	Sister Young said she would say a few words
on Suffrage, we should teach our sons the
necessity of voting. We have our rights with
our husbands. Sisters do all you can to make
your homes attractive, may God bless and pro-
tect us.
	Pres. Grant said, I feel very much pleased with
our meeting, and may we be benefited and
strengthened in what we have heard. We will
now adjourn our meeting for three months to
meet at Centreville. Singing, “The Spirit of
God,” &c. Benediction by Pres. Hess.
		PHEBE C. SESSIONS, Secretary.


