HUNTINGTON PRIMARY FAIR.

	DEAR EDITOR: Thinking that a few lines
would be of some interest to you, from our
Primary Association, to let you know how we
are progressing out here in Emery County, we
decided to send you a notice of our Primary
Fair.
	In Huntington we have a Primary Associa-
tion of upwards of one hundred and fifty child-
ren, and we have an average attendance of
eighty. On September 27th, a fair was held
here; there was a very nice assortment of ar-
ticles shown up by the children. Fair com-
mencing at 10 o’clock. Things were arranged
to begin programme. Stake President and
Counselor were present. Proceedings com-
menced with singing and prayer.
	Forenoon exercises: recitation by Matilda
Stallworthy, repeating the ten commandments,
Lydia and Minerva Mackelprang; song, May
Robinson; recitation, Lula Stevens; dialogue,
Lizzie Johnson and others; recitation, Rosella
Riley; song, Estella Colbard; recitation, Otilda
Johnson, Bible questions asked by Susannah
Roper; song, Hattie Ovard; dialogue, Charles
Johnson and others. Stake President Margaret
Washburn spoke very interestingly to the
children, said there was a great deal of good
to be learned, and we all no doubt can bear a
strong testimony to the same.
	Song by Ellen Fowler, remarks by Presi-
dent Adelia Mackelprang; adjourned till 2 p.
m. Dancing commenced 2 p. m, for the children,
songs and recitations intermingled. At five
o’clock the children were seated and refresh-
ments served, of which they partook with joyful
hearts and happy smiles. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Parley Washburn.
	SUSANNAH R. MADSON, Secretary, Pro tem.


It is proposed to start a new magazine in
New York next spring, with Mrs. May Riley
Smith as editor.

	Gov. Russell’s address to the Massachusetts
Legislature, last Thursday, was largely de-
voted to proposed reforms of the suffrage. He
denounced the existing tax-qualification for
voting as a violation of "this great primal right
of freedom,” and he affirmed that “the consti-
tutional provision which would deny to the
poor man who could not pay his tax-bill, the
right to vote, should be forever blotted out of
the constitution of a Christian commonwealth.”
But not a word did he utter in censure of the


exclusion from suffrage of one-half of the citi-
zens solely because they are women.—Ex.


