FROM FUNERAL ADDRESS BY REV. DR. THOMAS,
OF CHICAGO.
	"Against her social reputation there was never
a breath of suspicion, and the unquestioned purity
of her life did not a little to lessen the prejudices
and to rebuke the harsh, unjust criticisms of the
clergy and the church. She compelled the re-
spect of all; she was admired and loved by those
who knew her personal worth. She helped ele-
vate the character, and inspired with a noble zeal
and purpose the drama of her time. Thousands
of young and aspiring artists have felt the inspira-
tion of this noble life, and will themselves b


greater and better because she added to great-
ness the crown of goodness.
	Upon few, if any, of the social questions of our
day has the change of the better class of public
opinion been greater of late years than in the
kindlier and more appreciative attitude of the
church toward the stage. This is owing, in part,
to the gradual wearing away of the sharp lines
once drawn between the church and the world.
The larger intelligence of the present is beginning
to see that the quality of goodness is the same
wherever found, and that the drama has its place
and value; that between the hours of work and
worship there are hours when the mind and heart
may find rest and improvement in the diversions
and lessons of the opera and the play. And then
the character of the singers and players has
shared in the common growth of morals in all de-
partments of life, so that more thoughtful minds
now no longer ask, How shall we get rid of the
drama; but how shall its evils be lessened and
its greatest power for good be realized?
	Not pausing long, perhaps, if at all, to theorize,
Emma Abbott quietly entered this field of labor,
and it may be without any aim at first of making
it better, but simply with the noble resolve to be
herself good. And in that way she came to know
and to value the good in others, and by the simple
power of her own life and personality she has
helped make the position of the conscientious
artist one of the most honorable, and of that
honor she was herself justly proud and tenderly
sensitive. She did not play on the Sabbath, but
used that day for rest and worship. In a
Southern city, where she attended service one
Sabbath morning, and heard the minister de-
nounce the stage in almost unmeasured terms,
she asked the privilege of replying after the
audience was dismissed and she was heard in its
vindication. She was herself a Christian, and
lived a life of faith and prayer.
	The death of this noble woman leaves our
world poorer in that in which it needs be richer.
The power of music to charm and bless has not
yet been realized; the mission of song has only
begun; the time will come when the true dramatic
artists will take their places as among the recog-
nized backers and helpers in all that is good.
The great chorus of humanity is yet to be heard
in the glad day when all the people shall sing.
	It is deeply to be regretted that this child of
song, this pure spirit of earth, has gone away so
soon. Had she obeyed the word of her physician
it might have been different; but only those who
serve the public know how hard it is to disappoint
that public; and how many sing and speak when
they should rest and sleep. It was her energy
that made her what she was, that nerved her to
her last effort. Such voice culture and power
come only at the end of hard years of study.
Emma Abbott was yet in the rich summer-time
of life, and there should have been many years
before the autumn and the winter.
	It is strange and pathetic to think how all the
treasures of learniug, of scholarship, of poetry
and art, are held in these frail earthen vessels;
in brains and hearts that tire, that wear out or
break down by the way. Oh, it must be that this
is the beginning, not the end; that the spirits of
earth go away to live and love, to think and love
to think and sing in some other land that is better.
This was the blessed faith and hope that lived in
this heart that beats no more. "I shall sing my next
song in heaven." "I am not afraid to die." And I
think that her hold on life was weakened by the
great sorrow through which she had passed, and
that it was easier to go away because her husband
had gone before, and the gates were left open
and sweet voices were calling her to come."


