	HOME THOUGHTS.

	To make home a delightsome and an attractive
place, does not depend upon a large, fine house
with plenty of costly furniture, and expensive
surroundings, although these are very pleasing
and attractive to the eye; but the true secrets and
attributes of a happy home are not purchased
with gold or silver, but are placed there by the
hearts and the united efforts of the inmates of
that dwelling. What are riches compared with the
love of sincere and honest hearts? It does not
matter if the floor is bare, the rooms limited and the
furniture unpainted, the home may be far more
pleasant and enjoyable than the finest mansion
that is without the peace and quietude of loving
hearts. In a home where the Spirit of the Lord
is an inmate, the husband and wife are each
striving for the welfare of the other, and unitedly
striving for the welfare of their children. If they
wish their children to be polite they are not
afraid to say "If you please" or "Thank you" to
each other, or to the children, for a kindness
shown them. Teaching by example as well as
precept, and showing them that they do not re-
quire more of them than they do themselves.
The character of our young people are, to some
extent, molded at home; then should we not be
watchful and prayerful in regard to the influence of
that home? Ever striving  to retain a feeling of
love and happiness that will cause a desire to re-
main there and not go out into other company
to find enjoyment. If one of our daughters—the
same may also be applied to one of our sons—is a
little thoughtless or reckless,and does not keep
company with the young man of our choice, is it
our duty to take away her agency by saying, "You
shall not keep company with that young man?"
I think not. But it is our duty to teach, instruct,
advise and pray for her, and do everything within
our power to persuade her to shun evil company
and seek for good, that thereby she may be
saved in the Kingdom of God. And then, if she
still persists, is it not better to allow her to invite
her company home to spend the evening, rather
than compel her to go some other place, we know
not where, to meet him, as is too often the case.
Great wisdom and knowledge is required in teach-
ing and instructing our children, and we should
look to Him who says,"He that lacketh wisdom
let him ask of God who giveth to all men
liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be
given him," that we may raise them in that wa[-]


and manner that will lead them unto eternal lives.
For many are the snares that are set for our
young people, and many should be the prayers
that they may be able to resist them.
		M. E. H.
	Nov. 24th, 1890.


