THE INDIAN QUESTION.

	The present excitement and alarm offer
the proper occasion to repeat emphatically
what is undoubtedly the truth, that the radical
trouble is the bad faith of the white man.
Long ago General Grant, discussing the Indian
question, said that we had taught them to dis-
trust us. He said that after leaving West
Point, when he was stationed upon the frontier,
he had observed that the American white man
cheated the Indian. He added that the Eng-
lish Canadians were wiser, for they kept faith,
and he illustrated his remark by saying that if
they promised the Indian a certain kind of
blanket, the Indian was sure to get it. But
the Indian was not sure that our engagements
would be as honestly kept. When promises
have been faithfully kept there has been little
serious trouble, and the actual progress made
by Indians toward civilization under the most
exasperating circumstances shows how much
might have been expected from a more hu-
mane and honest course. Bishop Hare's recent
statement, and he is one of the best witnesses
and counselors in Indian difficulties, contains
two important suggestions; one is that there
are certain Indian ringleaders who ought to be
imprisoned and kept from mischief, and the


other is that indiscriminate punishment of
Indians should not be allowed. The mis-
sionary work among them seems to have pro-
duced excellent results, and if it does no more,
it shows the good results of good faith. The
President is understood recently to have ex-
pressed himself as favoring a transfer of the
Indian Bureau to the War Department. This
is a very serious question. Certainly the care
of the Indians by the Interior Department
leaves very much to be desired. But the indis-
pensable conditions of a wise Indian policy
are: First, a single head of the Indian Depart-
ment, who shall be a man of high character
and capacity; then the complete separation of
the care of the Indians from politics, and the
education of Indian youth. There is no more
signal illustration of the mischiefs of the spoils
system than that afforded by the ever-recurring
Indian troubles. The distinction of our Indian
policy is want of principle and common
sense.—Harper's Weekly.


