EMMA ABBOTT.

	The lovely and gifted songstress, Emma Abbott
whose voice has thrilled multitudes in the various
cities and towns of the world, and cheered many
a lonely heart and weary pilgrim, and who at-
tained a musical reputation only reached by a few,
has passed away from earth to join "the choir
invisible whose music is the gladness of the
world."
	A feeling of ineffable sadness came over the
writer, as she heard the words, "Emma Abbott
is dead," it was as though one near and dear had
gone, for has she not made herself near and dear
to all lovers of true music who have ever heard
her sweet rich voice with its rare melody holding
spell-bound many thousands at once.
	The prima donna died at the Templeton in this
city at twenty minutes to eight o'clock January 5,
1891. The Doctors who attended her stated that
"the immediate cause was heart failure brought
on by an attack of acute pneumonia." She was
conscious all the time during her illness, realized
that death was fast approaching and remarked
that she was not afraid to die. Her body was em-
balmed and shipped to Chicago where her mother
and relatives are residing the same evening. Her
wish was to be cremated and sometime ago "she
had an elaborate urn made," in which her ashes
were to be deposited. Her mother's wishes
however will control the matter. Her husband
is buried at Gloucester, Massachusetts.
	Dr. Condon of Ogden paid a beautiful tribute
to her memory in his article published in the
Standard from which we have taken the follow-
ing paragraphs:
	"It is said that the dying swan, when the last

[Column 2]

moments of dissolution arrive, pours out its soul
(for birds have souls) in a flood of melancholy
song so low and soft and full of tenderness that it
seems to be made of tears, and it seemed to us
who had often heard her sing before that Miss
Abbott, the pure and gifted Queen of Song, on
the opening night of the Grand Opera House,
sang as if it were to be the crowning effort of her
life, or rather as if coming events were casting
their shadows before; that she fully realized that
the curtain was about to be rung down on her
life and she should face alone the dread, and
mystery, and eternal silence that comes to all. Of
course no one thought then, but looking back it
seems to me as if I never heard her sing with
such sweetness and power as on that occasion
and hereafter the playhouse that she dedicated as
the last act of her life, will have an interest that
the future can add little to nor detract anything
from.
	"But the sweet voice that so often made the world
forget its cares will never again be heard, and the
applause of charmed multitudes will fall on dull
ears as the winter snows fall on the grave where
she sleeps unheeded. Her life was as pure as a
sunbeam, and will crown like an aureole the spot
where her form sinks into pulseless clay. Alas
that the strings of such a harp should be broken
asunder, that such divine fires of genius should
be extinguished. To many breaking hearts the
music of her voice and sweet ways brought heal-
ing; to how many storm-tossed souls made mad
by the wild tempest of unrestrained passion, her
rendition of "The Last Rose of Summer,"
charmed into repentance and forgetfulness, this
world will never know. Her songs were music
and music is divine. It can sooth the savage
breast that sometimes leaps from the hearts of
men; it subdued the fiends in tophet while
Euradice escaped; the spheres salute one another
in their journeys through the upper sky, with
music and the angels in the climax of their ecstacy
and in their sorrowing for the follies of weak
humanity, are singing ever and always. And so
it was with Emma Abbott, she sang to the good
and the bad, to the rich and poor alike, sang as
if the gift of song were not her own, as if she
were but its custodian and mnst one day render
an account of how she used it.

	"In the modest little town of Peoria, Ill., where
she first saw the light, there will be real grief, and
it will reach out till it covers this continent.
There will be no need of consanquinity to give it
point. She reached the understanding with the
wonderful gift of song and manner; she played
on the chorus of the human heart and all who felt
the power of her gentle touch loved her, honored
her, and paid her homage. She sang in prison
cells where turbulent hearts were beating against
the bars of passion that are stronger than the
girders that shut them in from the world and
appealed to the angel of their better nature. She
carried sunshine into the hospitals of pain. She
responded to the pitying voice of charity and
without compensation, other than that which the
consciousness of a deed well done always brings.
She charmed thousands; for to hear her sing even
the miser would unlock his iron box."

	Miss Abbott possessed great strength of char-
acter, as well as being wonderfully gifted; and
she won the hearts of all the profession at "one
fell stroke," when she arose in the Church at
Nashville, Tenn., and contradicted the preacher
who was violently denouncing the stage and all its
disciples as depraved and immoral, etc. It must
have taken a great deal of moral courage to take
such a stand, but she was equal to the effort, and
it gave her prestige, although she acted on the
impulse of the moment without waiting to con-
sider the consequences. It was however a heroic
step to take in defense of the stage.

[Column 3]

