			WASATCH STAKE
	The Conference of the Relief Society of
Wasatch Stake was held in the Stake House,
at Heber City, Nov. 7th, 1890. President
Emma Brown presiding. Meeting opened at
10 a. m. by singing, “The morning breaks, etc."
Prayer by Sister Ann Murdock, singing
“Come all ye saints, etc.” Present on the
stand the Stake Presidency also Presidents of
the different branches. Minutes of  last
Conference read and approved. President
Brown said she was pleased to see so many
present and felt glad for the privilege of at-
tending conference; said the Lord had greatly
blessed the people of this Stake, and we should
strive to show our gratitude to Him for the
many blessings bestowed on us by embracing
the opportunities offered us. Made some
other interesting and instructive remarks and
gave some good counsel. Verbal reports of
an encouraging nature were given by the
Presidents of the different branches. Confer-
ence adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing "We

[column 2]
thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Benedic-
tion by President Brown.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p. m. by
singing,“Let every mortal ear attend.” prayer
by President A. Hatch Singing, “We're not
ashamed to own our Lord.” Remarks were
made by Sisters Alexander and Daybell of 
the Stake Presidency, also by Sister A.
Murdock and Brother T. Giles and Wm.
MacGee. A call was made for $1.00 a year
from the larger wards and 50 cents from the
others to be paid into the treasury for mis-
sionary purposes, which was unanimously
sustained. A yearly meeting of the branches
for the purpose of electing officers was spoken
of, and so ordered. President Brown desired
the presidents to send two missionaries to the
Primaries regularly, also requested the presidents
to see that their reports were forwarded to the
Stake Sec. by the first of March and September.
The times to meet in Conference were appointed,
being the last Thursday of May and Sept.
Sister Brown felt that we had had a very
enjoyable conference, thanked all for coming
and exhorted them to diligence in the per-
formance of duties. Conference adjourned to
meet the last Thursday in May, 1891. Sing-
ing, “Come Come ye Saints.” Benediction by
Bro. Thomas H. Giles.
