FUNERAL SERVICES AT THE TEMPLETON.
	"It was decided early in the day to have brief
funeral services at 5 o'clock. At this hour the
members of the company, sixty in number, as-
sembled in the little suite of rooms looking out on
the west, on the fourth floor, and all were allowed
a glance at the departed. She looked almost as
if in sleep, so little had her illness changed her.
She was clothed in a manner strikingly beautiful.
She wore the white dress seen in the first act of
"Ernani," Wednesday night Dec. 31 1890—her
farewell appearance. It was white moire, paneled
with violet and green velvet, and embroidered
with purple lilacs in great natural bunches, white
lilacs on the violet and violet lilacs on the white,
gathered around the waist with white pearls. A
white embroidered veil strewn with roses, covered
her arms and neck. One hand held a pink rose,
the other a bunch of white roses, while on the
breast was a beautiful bunch of lilies of the val-
ley.
	"It was some moments before the emotions of
the little congregation could be restrained. Then
the male chorus, led by Broderick and Pruette,
sang, "Lord, in Mercy Hear my Prayer." The
effect was most touching—almost weird, and
Pruette and some others of the singers were un-
able to conclude. When the last notes were
heard, a great pent-up sob was loosed from the
throats of all present, and for a few moments sor-
row flowed without any attempt to restrain it.
The Rev. Mr. McNiece then arose and read a
chapter from the Bible after which the whole
chorus sang ,'Nearer My God to Thee." There
were next a few very appropriate remarks from
Mr. McNiece, with a short prayer, and the male
voices rendered with exquisite effect, the familiar
"Soldier's Farewell," beginning "How can I bear
to leave thee." After a brief pause, the whole
assembly sang, "Home Sweet Home," and the
exercises, which, impromptu as they were, were
of the most touching and impressive description,
drew to a close. There was hardly a dry eye
among the guests of the hotel—who had quietly
assembled in the hall, as the sounds of "Home
Sweet Home" rolled forth and the thought of
Emma Abbott's desolate home in the east came
to their minds.
	"There were some beautiful floral offerings: A
heart of dark red roses—Abbott's favorite color
—from the company; a cross of yellow roses
from Mr. and Mrs. Pratt; an anchor of white
flowers and calla lilies from the hotel—a beauti-
ful lyre from the theatre, and a large and most
exquisite design showing an arch, open gates and
a crown of flowers, with the words worked in
purple flowers, "Farewell Abbott." This came
from the Salt Lake Choral society, and was re-
garded as a particularly graceful act.
	At a quarter to nine the funeral cortege left the
hotel, the coffin, enclosed in a metallic casket,
and carried by Messrs. Michelena, Broderick
Consadine, Larrange, McCormack and Pruette,
was borne to the hearse. A procession composed
of fourteen carriages conveyed the company to
the Rio Grand depot, and at 10 o'clock the last
sorrowful farewell of Salt Lake was taken and
the train steamed off for Denver and Chicago.

