EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	There has been a great deal said of late
about Woman's Rights. We believe in her
having all the rights she is entitled to, and
a great deal more than what she gets, and we
also wish to say, that as women of Utah have
to be subject to the laws as well as others, and
are liable to punishment for breaking them,
they at least ought to have the privilege of
helping to make them; while at the same time
we believe that a woman's highest calling is in
her home, yet it is by no means the only one
that education has fitted her for.
	There are political and religious rights and
liberties that need to be spoken about and
kept in mind, and also Woman Suffrage work
to be looked after by those who have the
ability for such work. We also believe it is a
woman's right to have a husband and home
of her own, and a right to have children to
grace that home with, for the love of her off-
spring is one of the strongest instincts im-
planted in women, there is nothing that can
compensate her for the want of them. They
are necessary to her and her husband's happi-
ness. Well, as mothers in Israel we know
they are the Lord's heritage, and "Happy is
the man that hath his quiver full of them."
Psalms 127.5.
	And women in the darkest hour of adver-
sity, every true wife and mother is expected
to be at home and have her family around
her. Oh woman! what would the world be
without her. But how is it with some of the
lords of creation, they think that a woman
should have no individuality of her own: some
of them are very fond of trying to reduce
their wives to a state of unquestionable obedi-
ence, in fact treating them as if they were
creatures possessed of no brains hopes, or ideas of
their own. Woman's privileges indeed should
be talked about before such men? "Oh, no,
 she  must stay at home and attend to her
family duties, and if she finds it very hard
she must not grumble, but seek the patience
of Job, and the courage of Daniel, to enable
her to bear all things in an humble and sub-
missive way." What a good thing it is such
men are few and far between in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I feel
very thankful that I live in an age when some
of the noblest of mankind live on the earth;
who are willing to accord to woman-kind her
proper sphere. A man's heart ought to be
large enough to grasp and hold many wives


and children within its vast capacities, if it
pleases God to give them to him. Some men
are so narrow-minded that they can't love but
one woman at once, but it should not be so.
How beautiful it must be when large families
can come together in the harmony of beautiful
love, though now denied that precious blessing,
such can say and truly too, let us live our short
lives that eternity may only prove a prolon-
gation of unstinted affection—happy indeed are
such. Oh, that there were more of them!
When we step out of this existence those who
have obeyed the celestial law will not be cur-
tailed in their privileges or rights, but a higher
power than man's will govern and control all
things and we shall be satisfied.
