CONSOLATION.

What art thou, Death, that men doth fear thee so?
Why dread they with such shrinking thine approach?
Art thou some goblin grim, some monster fearful
That prison souls of men in dungeons foul,
In order that thou mayest, like fiend incarnate,
Torture them, and mock with glee demoniacal?

Or, rather, art thou not a messenger from God,
Who'rt sent to call us from this vale of tears—
Tell us our work is done, our life is finished;
That we've fulfilled our measure of creation
And shown to Him, how we have used the agency
Which He did give us, with our life and station?

Who then have need to fear thee? Not the young—
The babe, the little child that knows no sin,
To it, 'tis but a going to sleep, to wake to-morrow
Upon a brighter shore, in angels' arms
Where it shall ne'er know sorrow, pain or grief,
Safe sheltered from earth's cold and bitter storms.

Why weep we then with such a bitter mourning
When Death our pure babe hath called away?
And ask, "Oh, why was it e'er given to us
Only to stay awhile, till it had won
It's way into our warmest, tenderest love;
And then to die, and leave us here to mourn?

Oh, know ye not, ye weak, short-sighted mortals
That thy sweet babe, which thou would'st fain keep here,
Was once a spirit, which till now has waited
Anxiously to take a body here on earth,
That it might then return and fill the mission
It only could attain to though a birth?

It knew no sin, but went back to its Maker
Pure and holy, and free from guile and stain.
And 'tis become a link between our hearts and Heaven,
To draw our minds from petty earthly cares
And centre them above, in Heaven's realms—
For where our treasure is, so will our hearts be there.


Again, Death, who need fear thee? Not the young,
The youth or tender maid who've 'bedient been
To counsel given, and who have thus lived lives
Of truth, and honor, and purity so bright,
That, though life is sweet, its joys entrancing.
They need not fear, the world beyond is light.

Those in their prime, and, too, in middle age,
Who in their lives have trials and troubles seen,
Who've stemmed temptation's tide and struggled onward,
Why need they fear, if they be called by thee?
But calmly go, to take their rest in Heaven,
And all their dear ones gone before to see.

And then the old, whose tired feet have trod
The long and weary journey to old age,
Who've lived according to the light they had,
Whose hearts are true and consciences are clear;
How willingly they lay the burden down
To dwell with Christ in a far happier sphere!

Who, then, need fear thee? Those they are
Who've yielded to the tempter's wily snares,
Who're steeped so far in wickedness and sin
That they do fear to die, lest they receive
Just punishment as dues for sins committed,
For God, they know, they never can deceive.

