LADIES' GENERAL MEETING.

General meeting held in the 14th Ward Assem

[Column 2]

bly Rooms Sat, Jan. 3, 1891. Pres. M. I. Horne
presiding. Meeting opened with singing, "Come
let us anew," and prayer by Counselor Elizabeth
Stevenson, singing, "Now let us, rejoice etc."
Minutes of P. A. of 17th and 8th Wards were
read by their secretaries.
	The President wished the congregation "A
happy new year," with peace and prosperity;
said those who have come to meeting to-day will
receive a blessing. Was much pleased to hear
our young secretaries read their minutes so very
correctly, the minutes were quite instructive.
We have just passed a very eventful year, many
important changes have taken place, one that is
greatly to be lamented is the awful state of
morality in this city, brought about through the
change of parties: To think it unsafe to walk
our streets is a strange thing for us who have been
so accustomed to good order in our city; but we
see by the steps the "Liberals" re taking for re-
form in this matter that they are aware of the con-
ditions; and the hand of the Lord is ruling and
over-ruling for the good of His people; all the
events transpiring will tend to prepare this people
for the coming of the Son of Man. See how
things are transpiring among the Indians, they
did not harm the government in any way, but the
spirit of the Lord is working among them and
perhaps some of their blood had to be shed;
you my sisters, have read of the visions they have
had, it reminds one of the shedding of the blood
of Joseph and Hyrum; their blood also had to be
shed to seal their testimony. Let us have the
shield of the Almighty around us, that we may
be prepared for the changes that are coming.
Our financial affairs are in a very uncertain con-
dition; many are fearful of a great crisis in busi-
ness. Another important step that was taken in
1890 was the establishing of a Woman's Store on
a co-operative principle; we expect it to be a
success, but it will need our energies and talents,
our means and our faith united; let all our sisters
take an interest in the store by going and making
our purchases there, and talking it up in our
meetings, and with one another.
	Let us be humble and true to our covenants,
that we may be able to call on the Lord to cause
the power of the destroyer to depart from our
homes and families, that sickness may cease
among the people of God.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor also wished the sisters a
happy new year, and said, let us try and improve
on the past year and do better than we have done;
she testified to the power of administering to the
sick, that she had seen the sick healed in many
instances. Spoke upon prayer and tithing,
advised the mothers to impress upon their child-
ren to pay the Lord one tenth of the little
presents they get in money, they will never forget
it, and the Lord will bless them. Mothers teach
your sons and daughters chastity; it is lament-
able to hear of young people going astray, these
things should not be in our midst; let us implant
in the minds of our children pure, virtuous prin-
ciples. Referred to the meeting held in the
Methodist Church and applauded the course
taken there by Brother Nicholson.
	Mrs. B. W. Smith said by watching the signs
of the times we can see the fulfillment of both
ancient and modern prophecies; we are living in
an eventful time, and we should instruct our
children in the truths of the Gospel that they may
not be led into temptation, but shun all appear-
ances of evil, be modest and careful in their de-
portment in all places. Teach our children faith
in the Lord. that they may have power with them
in sickness or in calling down any blessing they
may require from the Lord.
	Mrs. Mary Clark said,we must watch as well as
pray that we may always have the testimony of
the Gospel in our hearts; rear our children in the
spirit of prayer that they may claim the blessings
of heaven. Watch ourselves that we may be

[Column 3]

ready to meet the Savior and enjoy the blessings
in store for those who serve the Lord. Let us
have charity, not look at each other's weaknesses,
nor say anything to hurt anyone but guard each
other's characters. Spoke eloquently of Temple
work and advised the sisters to go there if they
felt weak and get their strength renewed.
	Mrs. E. Stevenson also wished the sisters a
happy new year, and said, "I wish to live to do
good, I am glad I have laid a foundation of work-
ing in the Temple for my ancestors; if I can't do
all I leave those behind that will carry on the
work. To one is given one gift, to another,
another gift, let us build each other up and culti-
vate chastity in our own lives, that our children
may be imbued with the purity that we as a peo-
ple should be filled with.
	Pres. Horne said,we have had good instruction,
let us be wise, judicious and prudent, that we
may enjoy our religion. It is our duty to teach
correct principles, and it is our duty to pay at-
tention to this teaching, and let us have a will to
do right.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks, singing "All
hail the new-born year," and benediction by Mrs.
E. Howard.
		E. H., Sec'y, pro tem.


