CONVENTION NOTES.

	The coming convention of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, to be
held at Albaugh’s Opera House, Washington,
D. C., February 26 to March 1,1891, prom-
ises a programme rich and varied. There will
be two public sessions daily, at 10 a. m. and
7:45 p. m., and a service on Sunday afternoon,
March 1, which will be conducted by eight of
our best women ministers. Rev. Caroline J.
Bartlett, of Kalamazoo, Mich., will preach
the sermon. There will be choice music by
the best talent at all of the sessions, in addi-
tion to that fnrnished by the orchestra.
	Among the speakers will be Miss Florence
Balgarnie, of England; Julia Ward Howe,
Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Lucy Stone, Rev.
Olympia Brown, Mrs. Lide Meriwether, Rev.
Anna Shaw, Hon. J. M. Carey, Mrs. Zerelda
G. Wallace, Carrie Lane Chapman, Lillie
Devereux Blake, Hou. Wm. Dudley Foulke,
Mrs. Josephine K. Henry, Isabella Beecher
Hooker, Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick and a
host of others.
	Admission for the convention is announced
as follows:
Box for season (seven sessions)	. . . . $10 00
Season, reserved seat, (seven sessions) .    2 00
Single ticket (with reserved seat) . . .		50
Single admission . . . . . . . . . . . .             	25
	Sale of season tickets at 1406 G street until
February 26, and after that date at the ticket
office at Albaugh’s Opera House.
	Executive sessions and all committee meet-
ings will be held at the Suffrage Parlors, 1406
G street northwest.
	The Riggs House will be the headquarters
of the Convention, and will give reduced rates
to delegates and visitors.
	The reduced railroad rates have been grant-
ed in the name of the National Council of
Women (which meets at Albaugh’s Opera
House the four preceding days), and extend
from February 19 to March 5, thus covering
the time of both Council and Suffrage Conven-
tion. Delegates and visitors to either meet-
ings will therefore procure in the name of the
National Council of Women, certificates from
agent at point of starting that the full fare one
way has been paid, in order that the reduction
on the return trip may be granted.


