[COLUMN 2]

but new Counselors were elected, Sisters
Dorcas Farnsworth and Elizabeth Enze;
Secretary, Frederica Anderson; Assistant
Secretary, Anna D. Kemp; Treasurer, So-
phia O. Hanson, who from the beginning
has endured faithful. At that time there
was in the Treasury $120; shares in the Co-
operative Store 45; $221.68 has been paid
out within the last year towards the build-
ing of a house for the sisters, our brethren
having promised to build one as soon as
convenient. We generally manage to keep
a supply of material on hand for the dress-
ing of our dead, and it is charged over to
the Order; so with quilts, socks, or anything
else that the sisters manufacture; our
means is at the call of our brethren, whom
we think it our duty to sustain, and to ad-
minister to the sick for whom we have as
yet been able to procure a few delicacies.
	The Teachers, eighteen in number, (all
members of the United Order) visit regu-
larly, once a month, among as many of the
sisters as will receive them. We have a
a teacher's meeting and a prayer meeting
every month, and meet to work as often as
time and circumstances will permit, and we
can get a place with some of our sisters.
We have been trying to unite our efforts to
labor for the general good of all; in work-
ing our wool into cloth, our president her-
self being a hard worker, has indeed shown
her faith by her works, and some of our sis-
ters have followed her example. We exert
ourselves to encourage our sisters to foster
HOME PRODUCTIONS of every kind, but la-
bor under difficulties as long as we have no
house to work in; yet I can truly say that
union and a good spirit prevail among the
faithful few, who are always ready to meet
for worship, or for work, and we trust in
the God of Israel to crown our feeble efforts
with success, that we may be help-meets to
our brethren in working out the purposes of
God. We shall be pleased to receive coun-
sel and instruction from our more expe-
rienced sisters, either by letter or through
the Exponent. Love to our faithful sisters
wherever this may find them.
	Yours in the Everlasting Covenant,
