RETRENCHMENT, OR GOD'S KING-
		DOM, OR NOTHING.
	Not being able to be with you in person,
I will try to in spirit and give you a few of
my thoughts by means of pen and paper.
I can not exchange ideas with you, so you
will have a little of the advantage for the
present, until such time as I can be with
you. I attended RETRENCHMENT MEET-
INGS with the 11th Ward for a year, and I
would not take the riches of this world for
the light and knowledge I received there;
and if you who have started out will perse-
vere with a determination to learn the ways
of the Lord, you will be blessed abund-
antly in your endeavors, so much so that
you will bless the day retrenchment was
instituted. Some may suppose it is to re-
trench in dress alone, but that is a small
item when you consider how many other
bad habits need eradicating from our
minds. These Societies consist of every
thing that is exalting, pure and noble, and
will eventually make us as pure as the an-
gels, if we have a desire and try to be so
ourselves. We have to work out our own
salvation and it will be ourselves who are
to blame if when the judgment day comes
we are not prepared, for we have all the
advantages necessary to learn. Let us
take a look at ourselves and see what part
of our natures we would be better without,
and retrench in it. We often slur people,
perhaps only through a feeling of jealousy;
but it hurts the person spoken of perhaps
more than we intended.
	How often we criticize and make fun of a
person that really we ought to respect, and
perchance if we were talking to them we
would be most amiable and courteous,
well here is a case of criticism and de-
ceit. I think it is a much better plan to
speak well of everyone and if we cannot,
let us keep silent. Sometimes persons
wound our feelings, but let us not wound
theirs, but overcome evil with good, this is
the most noble, and we shall feel better sat-
isfied with ourselves for doing so. Every
thing that is revealed for us as a people
through the authorities of the church, let
us heartily endorse and put in practice to
the best of our abilities, and if we do this
we will be as near perfect as the angels of
heaven, for they only do the best they can.
But we come far short of that as yet. Let
us look for the beam in our own eye and we
shall not be able to see the mote in another
person's.
	Let us try to prepare ourselves so that we
can be with the faithful in the presence of
our Heavenly Father, this is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel of Christ.
