A STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE.

	Many persons have—and all should have a
guide or pattern, following which their course
is onward, ever on, approaching nearer and
nearer to perfection.
	Whatever pursuit or occupation is chosen,
it is always well to endeavor to excel in that
particular; to become master of a trade art or
profession, never a slave to either. And if a
standard is wisely chosen and carefully kept in
view, it is as easy to live a king, or queen as to
be a mere servant.
	The greatest difficulties which hinder the
progress of a vast portion of the human family,
are, doubtless, the results of inadvertency.
People fall into the lamentable way of think-
ing lightly or not at all upon weighty matters;
and thus fail to acquire the all important habit
of sober, earnest, careful thought. Without
power to concentrate the intellectual force it
must be impossible to accomplish great designs,
however strong the hands or willing the heart
may be. Energetic thought incites to energet-
ic action. It may be possible for a deep think
er to fail of putting his thoughts into operation
—he may purpose and not perform, but he
rarely if ever performs any creditable thing
without having first conceived a purpose.
	Of late years, this city seems at times to con-
tain a surplus of young domestic women who
are compelled to go about in search of employ-
ment.  When applied to for information con-
cerning a situation, the question instinctively
arises whether the applicant is one to be recom-
mended, one who has given thought and atten-
tion to that work for which she now impor-
tunes. Quite as much in behalf of the solici-
tor as of any one who may employ her is this
feeling of interest aroused. Conscious human-
ity gives every reasoning mind a desire to see
all creatures do well.
	The Gospel of Christ which "is the power of
God unto salvation" teaches wisdom and order
in all things. It teaches us when we take
time for reflection on these subjects, that food
should be properly prepared, dishes properly
washed, floors properly swept and beds and
clothing properly made and taken care of; as
well as that we should visit the widow and the
fatherless and keep ourselves unspotted from
the world. Therefore, in all things which
young people may or should be taught, a stand-
ard of excellence should be pointed out to
them as a safe and suitable criterion.
	By some it may be considered that these sim-
ple, every-day affairs have little to do with the
actual vitality of our religion, that temporal
salvation as well as spiritual salvation is neces-
sary for the welfare and happiness of mankind.
And this is not the sole cause why accuracy in
all these minor duties is most essential. But


another and very significant reason why we
need school ourselves and those who a[-]e look-
ing to us for example, to be thorough i[-] what-
is undertaken, is that a perfect system carried
out in one department of life's labors cannot
fail in facilitating the accomplishment of all
other obligations.
	And certainly there is no danger of any one's
erecting too high a standard of moral excel-
lence, or walking too directly in its line.


