		SPANISH FORK, Jan. 9th, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—I have been thinking of
writing for some time to let you know how
we are getting along with our Retrench-
ment Association, but have neglected it, not
being accustomed to write to a paper. We
meet together once a week, open our meet-
ings with prayer and singing, and bear tes-
timony to the things of this kingdom. We
also have a paper entitled "The Young La-
dies' Herald of Union." We are on the in-
crease and the timidity that affected us at
first in standing up to speak, is leaving us
in a great measure. It gives me great
pleasure to hear the young brethren and
sisters bear testimony to the work of God.
	When we consider the trials and troubles
our parents have gone through for the Gos-
pel's sake, it behooves us to be diligent, and
show to them and the world that we are fit
subjects for this kingdom.
	Our Retrenchment Association was organ-
ized March 31st, 1875, with the following
officers:
	Miss Mary J. Warren, President.
	"	Maria Finch,
	"	Mary J. Thomas,	"	Jane Robertson	Counselors.
	"	Elizabeth Martell,
	Mrs. Mary C. Bekstrem
	Miss Jane Robertson, Treasurer.


Emma P. Evans, Secretary.
Nancy E. Woodward, Assistant.
Our Resolutions are as follows:
	1. We will always dress neatly and in a
becoming manner, not indulging in the
foolish fashions of the world, but will try to
create our own fashions, such as will be con-
ducive to our health and comfort.
	2. We will attend Sabbath and Fast meet-
ings, Sunday School and other gatherings
where useful information and instructions
are imparted.
	3. We will be reserved in our actions in
meetings and elsewhere, and cultivate good
manners and true etiquette in our behavior.
	4. We will refrain from the use of slang
phrases and by-words, as they are termed,
being unbecoming and not ladylike.
	5. We will not treat or speak lightly of
any sacred ordinance of our religion, but
will seek wisdom, humility, and the guid-
ance of the Holy Spirit by prayer.
	6. We will refrain from reading fictitious
literature which has a debasing tendency,
and is very injurious to the memory, but
we will be studious in our lives, seeking to
obtain wisdom and knowledge from the
reading of good books and other sources at-
tainable.
	7. We will refain from fault finding, and
seek for the good of our brethren and sis-
ters, and do to others as we wish them to
do to us.
	8. Resolved that we will refrain from
round dancing, as it is not approved of by
the Presidency of the Church, and is also
injurious to our health.
	We were very much edified and instruct-
ed by Sister Eliza R. Snow and others while
on their visit to us last summer. Hoping
that we may ever follow their counsel and
examples is our united desire.
EMMA P. EVANS,
		Secretary.


