MY DEAR SISTERS:
	As I cannot have the pleasure of being
with you to-day, being confined to my bed
with a heavy cold which I received in do-
ing good to others; "but that is all right," I
thought I would send you a few lines to be
read in your meeting. The Lord has not
forsaken me, He pours out His spirit upon
me abundantly when all around me are as
leep. I have good reflections and the spir-
it of light leads me to see even behind the
vail where the spirits of the saints are work-
ing in co-operation with us, and preaching
to the spirits who died without a knowledge
of the Gospel; but they do not have this
world and its wickedness to contend with
as we have; therefore my beloved sisters


let us be united in all our undertakings, or
we can accomplish nothing. Let us be
humble, prayerful and watchful, for the
Evil One is at work trying to destroy our ef-
forts to do good. But if we, a band of
sisters are bound together in union and love,
and obedience to the Holy Priesthood, and
the principles of the Gospel, we shall be
able to do some good while we live, and
when we are called to go behind the vail
we shall not stop our progress in good works
but in a brighter sphere progress from step
to step until we arrive at the glory and ex-
altation that we have lived for; which may
God through His mercy grant unto us in
the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.
	Sisters one and all I wish you a happy
New Year, may the spirit of God dwell in
your homes, and lead you through all your
duties in life as mothers in Israel. And
you my young sisters who have now been
called upon to step forward in the mission
you were sent here to perform. You are
the daughters of Zion born of parents who
hold the HOLY PRIESTHOOD. Do you ap-
preciate the great privilege that is bestow-
ed upon you above any other daughters in
the nation? Their fathers and mothers
great as they may be do not have the HOLY
PRIESTHOOD therefore young sisters be
thankful for your calling, and if you lack
wisdom be humble, and ask of Him Who is
willing to give; and if you are faithful to
the requirements made of you by your
leaders, you will be able to do a greater
work than your mothers have done hitherto,
and the Lord your Father will smile down
on you, and bless you and your posterity.
May God bless you one and all, is the pray-
er of your sister in the Gospel.
