NOTES AND NEWS.
	The King of Siam has joined the royal
list of authors; he has published a small
cyclopaedia on the statistics of literature,
politics, geography and history of the coun-
try od Siam.
	THE PRINCESS Matilda De Keschko, re-
cently married to Prince Milan of Servia,
is described as looking like a Greek statue
stepped down from its pedestal, and as hav-
ing the air of a goddess when goddesses
were believed in.
	THE MARQUESE de Chambrun, the grand-
daughter of Lafayette, now a resident of
Washington, has in her possession a set of
pearls given her grandmother by Marie An-
toinette, at whose wedding that lady acted
as bridesmaid.
	MISS ANNA Louisa Cary, the sweet Yan-
kee singer from Maine, was received in
Moscow recently with the greatest enthu-
siasm by the "royalty" and the people. She
writes to a friend in Chicago, describing her
timidity in appearing upon the stage, but
says after the first rehearsal with the or-
chestra, she was sure that "failure" would
not be the verdict, for the musicians rose to
applaud her, which was the first time they
had noticed an artist. After the second act
of "Il Trovatoro" she was called out four
times, after the third act three times, and
after the entire opera six times. She says
her success has been the event of the sea-
son; and that she was received there with
the same enthusiasm and applause as in Cin-
natti at the Festival.
	OPENING OF A LADIES' COLLEGE.—Yes-
terday morning the new Ladies' College,
known as Newnham Hall, at the back of
the colleges, at Cambridge, was formally
opened, and received into its rooms twenty-
seven students, the resident mistress being
Miss Clough, sister of the poet. This hall
was much needed, as accommodation could
not be found at Girton College. The large
number of ladies who come to Cambridge
for the purpose of attending lectures could
not be provided with lodgings, a difficulty
which will now be removed. Newnham
Hall has been built at considerable cost by
a number of persons interested in promot-
ing the higher education of women, who
have formed themselves into a limited lia-
bility company for that purpose. The pay-
ment for one term's residence at the hall is
to be 201. There are some exhibitions and
scholarships which are open to competition,
and can be held by lady students at the hall.
Ladies who intend to make teaching a pro-
fession will be allowed to attend the lec-
tures.


IT is well that we were born babies in in-
tellect. Could we understand and reflect
upon one-half of what most mothers at that
time say and do to us, we should draw con-
clusions in favor of our own importance,
which would render us insupportable for
years. Happy the boy whose mother is tir-
ed of talking nonsense to him before he is
old enough to know the sense of it!


