[COLUMN 2]

the powers of evil to battle with, and the
leaders of those contending armies are mar-
shalling their hosts for the last great strug-
gle. We know that truth will triumph, but
we do not know that we will prove faithful
unto the end and worthy an inheritance in
the kingdom of God.
	We have finished the record of the year
that is past, and we cannot recall one single
deed, whether good or evil, that does not
stand to our honor or condemnation, but
we can carefully look over those pages of the
past, and gather wisdom that will aid us in
the future.
	Remember it is the present that makes
the past, and it is a good thing to be able
to look back without a pang of sorrow or a
blush of shame, and it is in the present that
we build our dwelling places for eternity,
that we sow the seed of happiness or mis-
ery. This life is short and time is precious,
and let us seek those things that perish not
with earth.
	Farewell to the departed year, and when
the Books are opened and we listen to the
record, may we not feel to hide our faces for
shame and wish that it was blotted out for-
ever. And may the new year find us with
strength renewed and purpose firm to seek
the right, and prove us faithful and valiant
soldiers in the cause of God.
							Hope.


For the EXPONENT.
AS YOU SOW SO SHALL YOU REAP.
ADDRESSED TO THE PERPETUAL GROWLERS
	ABOUT WOMAN'S EXTRAVAGANCE.
	You have outraged women for the last
two thousand years at least.
	You have forced on her the conviction
that unless she can win you by the arts of
the toilet, she can never obtain a prominent
place in society.
	You have tried to stamp out every noble
feeling of her nature, by scorn for her weak-
ness, while you have used that weakness
for your own gratification.
	You have humbled her to the dust. You
have not cherished her as a helpmeet for
man, but used her as a slave.
	Now you are reaping as you have sown.
Now you whine because you have done
your work so well, and throw all the blame
on the woman, threatening not to marry
her because of her extravagance. Well,
don't. Better the world become utterly
empty than to go on as it has done for the
last two thousand years.
	This is something of the style—Caesar's 
wife must be above reproach, whilst Caesar
was a heartless reprobate.
	William of Normandy beat the Princess
Matilda because she did not want to marry
him; beat her until she consented to be his
wife.
	Napoleon divorced Josephine to satisfy
his ambition.
	Noble men, all these! Oh, yes! very no-
ble, very.
	MARY.
	Granstville, T


