WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.
	MY VISIT SOUTH.
	I left Salt Lake City Nov. 3rd and return-
ed on Dec. 11th, having traveled about 900
miles.  I held forty-five meetings, passed
through Nephi, Taylorsville, Warm Creek,
Gunnison, Monroe, Panguitch, Hills Dale,
Mammoth, Glendale, Orderville, Mt. Car-
mel, Kanab, Pipe Springs, Andrews Ranch,
Virgin City, Duncan Retreat, Rockville,
Tokerville, Leeds, Harrisburg, Washington,
Middletown, St. George, Clara, Pine Valley,
Pinto, Harmony, Kanarra, Hamilton, Ce-
dar, Summit, Parowan, Paragona, Bener,
Adamsville, Minersville, Greenville, Indian
Creek, Kanosh, Meadow Creek, Filmore,
Holden and Scipio.  I was conveyed from
place to place by the people and was met
with the greatest cordiality and respect.
Br. Segmiller took me to all of the settle-
ments of Sevier Co. being a distance of
about 150 miles.  He is very spirited and
is a successful laborer in the United Order.
There the people were greatly satisfied with
their abundant harvest and they were work-
ing harmoniously in the United Order. The
roads were fine and the weather was settled
until I began traveling through Kane Co.
there the roads were broken, rough and
sandy. While I was passing over into Long
Valley I was delighted with a forest of tall
pines averaging from 50 to 100 feet high,
and from 3 to 6 feet through.  I was told
that this forest extended 25 by 30 miles,
directly on the ridge or summit, and the
ground was free from brush or undergrowth,
leaving the tall stately pines waiting for
the woodman's axe.  This was a great treat
as the country for hundreds of miles is des-
titute of timber, only as it is found hid away
in the hills.  There has been a great drouth
this season and the grass was all dried up,
and the stock was driven off for better pas-
ture land; especially in the region of Fill-
more.  In Orderville, there is an organized
company numbering 29 men 37 women, and
99 children, organized under the presidency
of Howard O. Spencer, and if muscle and
sinew represents wealth, I thought it was
well represented by these hale and hearty
looking men whom I breakfasted with.
The women were spinning and weaving,
and the men were thrashing out their grain,
they said their harvest had been very heavy
and all seemed happy with their prospects
of future success.  Long Valley is more
like a canyon than a valley as it is so nar-
row it will not admit of their spreading
their borders very much.  Kanab is eleva-
ted and the climate is much like the New
England States, the soil is of a reddish hue.
Their bishop L. J. Nutall, had just arrived
and was energetically commencing his
new field of labor as a presiding bishop. I
found my brother-in-law, Philip B. Lewis.
His wife Mary died Nov. 14th after a linger-
ing sickness of one year; she died strong in
the faith of the Latter-day work, and was
noted for her charity and liberality to the
poor, and was cared for and duly appreciated
by her husband.  This brought the first and
only gloom of my journey.  The weather
was cold and I left in a rain storm, I stopped
at two Ranchs, called Pipes Springs and
Canan Ranch, at which places the surplus
stock of St. George and other places are
kept, and considerable beef, butter and
cheese are furnished at these places.  Ar-
rived at Virgin a place sometimes called
Pocketville, did not see it until we had got
right upon it.  It is a lively little place; on
inquiring for the Bishop, the boy told me
that he lived up there on a sand hill, and
while the carriage stood in front of the
house in the deepest of sand, I looked di-
rectly over the fence and saw a beautiful
flower garden and vineyard, such striking
contrast adjoining each other.  As I passed
on to St. George I looked back on Toker-
ville and these little places and was forcibly
reminded of a passage of Scripture referring
to the saints being hid up in the moun-
tains while the indignation of the Lord
passed over the earth.  Arrived at St.
George after dark and found Bro. Erastus
Snow and the Saints all congregated in a
large hall awaiting my arrival.  If the
Queen of England had arrived I don't think
that she could have been received with a
more hearty welcome; spent a couple of
days of unalloyed pleasure in the society of
the Saints in meetings.  There was or-
ganized a society of young ladies of 80
members, by the president of The Relief
Society, Sister Ivins. Topics and items of in-
terest were conversed upon at the meeting.
Some of the sisters accompanied me to the
Clara. I do not think the earth can afford
a nobler spirited woman than I found there
by the name of McLeland, such a calm and
placid expression upon her countenance.  Oh
that all mothers could bury their frowns and
cares beneath such a smile which so well be-
came her aged face; she showed me a shawl
and other articles that she had manufactured
from her own raising of silk. I never saw
before, nor do I think the world can boast of
such noble intelligent, fine-looking marri-
ageable young ladies as I saw in those settle-
ments where I visited; they appeared neat
and clean, comfortably dressed, but plain
and as though their better judgment guid-
ed them.  The ruggedness of the country
and their surroundings showed that they
had labored and encountered much to make
their homes, but yet with it all there seem-
ed to be such a welcome, mellow, broth-
erly and kindly feeling, unlike the mixed
element of this city where our deportment
is characterized with so much formality and
coldness; and I felt as though I little cared
if I never returned to it again.  At this
point I commenced my homeward journey,
and was furnished with a span of horses
that were called Dixie horses, and as they
began to climb the ledges in ascending the
ridge that surrounds the west side of St.
George, they reminded me of some well-
trained goats, and their little feet unlike
the clumsy American horses, could always
find a place in the rocks; but before I got
over that day's journey of 45 miles, Bro.
Foster furnished me with a span of horses
that rapidly flew over the remaining twelve
miles.  In Pine Valley we had quite a snow
storm, the summer season is very short
there, and they have very late and early
frosts. As I passed on I was occasionally
greeted by my warm friends of early life.
In Pinto I found myself buried in the
arms of a friend, one of our old fashioned far-
mer's wives, who seemed to be blessed
with too much good nature for her own
good, if such can be the case, and she takes
the cares of life so good-naturedly.  Read-
ers her name is Haskell and her children
seemed happily organized like herself, her
little home is so neat and clean that I
thought what a paradise where order and
contentment dwells.  My space will not ad-
mit of the many items that might interest;
therefore I will pass on until I arrive at
Cedar; Eld. Erastus Snow had kindly tele-
graphed and made appointments ahead of
me. Here the Relief Society sisters had
prepared a dinner at Bishop Lunts, the
very air seemed to breathe forth a spirit of
welcome. The Bishop supports and aids
the movements of the sisters, and they co-
operate in their efforts in building up the
kingdom. At Parowan, another principal
city, Br. Jesse Smith is the Bishop, and
his wife is president of the Relief Society,
a very able and intelligent laborer and much
respected by the sisters.  Bishop Smith's
mother who is very aged, is one of those
lovely old ladies that win the respect and
esteem of everybody around them. At
Kenner, another large settlement, I stayed
and held two meetings, and some of the
sisters accompanied me to Minersville and
we had a season of rejoicing together. Bish-
op Murdock aided me in telegraphing
ahead for conveyances &c.  As I arrived at
Cove Creek, Sister Hinckley favored me
with a change of horses, one of them a
fine-looking animal was called scorchel as
he had been burned in Bro. Well's barn.
Fillmore is the next large city, I was ac-
companied to meeting by Eld. Marien Ly-
man, and the powerful testimony he bore
corresponded much with the spirit of the
times. After leaving there I held meet-
ings at the intervening places including
Nephi, at which place I was furnished with
a conveyance which took me to the Termi
nus.
	E. S. B.
	Elvira S. B[---]


