THE BEST SOCIETY.

	The best society as moderns apply the term,
does not necessarily imply real merit, virtue,
or goodness, but the greatest degree of polish,
style, and very frequently we find more or less
hypocrisy and deceit. If one wishes to win
their way to popularity among persons who
class themselves under this head they must
not evince any great degree of candor, or real
sincerity. They must study etiquette and the
laws of good-breeding, use a certain amount of
obsequiousness and initiate themselves into the
habits customs and style of those persons
who have qualified themselves by practice and
artfulness to take the lead of the "Beau
Monde." If such persons only preserve an out-
ward semblance of honor and dignity of char-
acter, they may be held up as examples to be
followed or imitated by those whose limited
knowledge and circumstances have left unpre-
pared for successfully winning their way to em-
inence in the social scale. It would be ex-
tremely unjust to say that all persons of polish-
ed manners and deportment were of this calss.
No indeed! But to a careful observer it would
seem that a majority were of this style. When
one becomes familiarly associated with persons
of the most unexceptionable tastes and man-
ners, and actually proves them not only uncer-
tain, unreliable, and insincere, but from their
conversation as well as conduct are led to be-
lieve that such are the characteristics of refined
society and its general bearing upon the com-
munity, one must inevitably draw the unfav-
orable conclusion, that the most refined socie-
ty in this enlightened nineteenth century
(when elevation of thought feeling and express-
ion is the constant topic) is not by any means
the safe guard of purity.

	To be genuine and frank in any strong sense,
is to be classed as uncouth and uncultivated,
much honor is due to those persons, who hav-
ing passed the ordeal of polite society in this
day and age  preserved their hearts and
affections, as well as their morals uncorrupted;
for as Dean Swift says:
	"It is hard where dullness overrule,
	To keep good sense in crowds of fools;
	And we admire the man who saves
	His honesty in crowds of knaves.


