ESSAY ON FRIENDSHIP.

	A female writer, of well-known celebrity
says: "Friendship is not a plant of hasty
growth; though planted in esteem's deep fixed
soil, the gradual culture of kind intercourse,
must bring it to perfection." "Joanna Bailey."
	There have been volumes written upon this 
subject in both poetry and prose, and yet it is 
impossible to exhaust it; but while the wise
and great fail in portraying all its merits, I 
must certainly fall far short of any perfection
in conveying to you my ideas on such a cele-
brated topic; yet I have realized even in my
short life, some of the blessings and advanta-
ges asising from a sincere and well-advised
friendship; and I believe truly with the author
I have quoted; that lasting and abiding friend-
ships are not only seldom hastily formed, but al-
so require cultivation, however great the esteem
and reverence, we entertain for those whose
good feelings we are anxious to share; but care-
ful nurture of tender feelings, and kindly at-
tion to individual and mutual tastes and char-
acteristics, strengthen our faith and confidence
in each other, and these attributes are the 
strong bulwarks of solid and trustful friend-
ships.
	Congeniality of sentiment is considered by
many an essential requisite, but how often we 
see it disproved. Persons in almost every re-
spect dissimilar, are seemingly attracted to 
each other by strong opposing elements, and


finding a rarity of some special qualification,
cultivate an intimate acquaintance in order to
bring out those apparent peculiarities; and in
this intense study of another person perceive
so much that is genuine and lovable, that in-
sensibly even to themselves perhaps, they form
warm and reciprocal attachments.
	There are many varieties of friendship ac-
cording to the age, sex, and capabilities of those
persons with whom the intimacy exists; but a
true and genuine friendship founded upon a
basis of esteem, honor, and sincerity, cannot
fail in producing a beneficial result upon those
who live within its influence. Persons must be
conscious of the purity of their own motives,
and judge others from this lofty standard of
moral excellence, in order to be able to appre-
ciate the trust reposed in them. Co[-]lness of 
manner, formality, a frigid atmosphere of feel-
ing are detrimental to the happy growth of
this precious sweetener of life. And there
fore let all who desire to bask in its sun-
ny and invigorating rays, develop those
faculties which will inspire to wisdom, in at-
taining a true medium of thought, feeling and
action, which will impart that cordiality of
character, consistent with an eternal and sub-
lime friendship—instead of that gushing en-
thusiasm, which is almost sure to carry its vo-
taries beyond the bonds of sober reason.
M.


IN a report made by Surgeon E. P. Vollum to
the Surgeon-General, on Some Diseases of Utah,
it is stated that the adult population of that
Territory is as robust as any within the limits
of the United States.  The children furnish two-
thirds of the deaths, most of which occur under
five years of age.  In Salt Lake City, as appears
from the register kept by the undertakers, the
male deaths exceed the females in number
about fifty per cent.  The polygamous children
are as healthy as the monogamous, and the
proportion of deaths about the same, the dif-
ference being rather in favor of the former,
who are generally, in the city especially, situ-
ated more comfortably as to residence, food, air,
and clothing, their parents being in easier cir-
cumstances than those in monogamy.  So far
as he can learn, polygamy in Utah furnishes
no idiocy, insanity, rickets, tubercles, struma,
or debasing constitutional condition of any
kind.—"Frank Leslie's Illustrated Paper."


