WOMAN NOW AND THEN.[
[Column 1]
	WOMAN NOW AND THEN
	EXTRACTS FROM A LECTURE BY MISS HIND-
	MAN, OF PITTSBURG, PENN., DELIVERED
	IN DAVENPORT, IOVA, RECENTLY.
	The lady opened her discourse with a ref-
erence to the struggle between conservatism
and radicalism that had charactized the
world's history, and said that all changes
for the better had been produced first by
impression of wrong, then by conviction,
then by agitation, followed by conflict. She
gave a brief review of the condition of wo-
men in different ages and countries, com-
paring what has been with what is. The
history of Woman is very dark. A great
gulf, over which she could not pass, lay be-
tween her and man. Socially, intellectual-
ly, religiously and politically, Woman had
in the past been treated as an inferior. The
laws and customs of Turkey, China, India,
England, France and Germany concerning
Woman were referred to; the laws made in
reference to her were oppressive and de-
grading in all these lands. In some, laws
were made forbidding her to eat at the table
with her husband, or even to taste food un-
til he and his friends were served. In oth-
ers, there were laws forbidding her to visit,
or even to smile, in the absence of her hus-
band. In some countries she was held in
subjection, beaten, and even sold, by her
father and husband, while others considered
her a soulless being, created for the comfort
and convenience of man in this life alone.
	Some amusing extracts from works of the
leading writers of the last century were
read to show the opinion of the authors
concerning women then, and down even as
late as our own time. One of the great
German writers gives his opinion in these
words: "The woman who thinks is, like the
man who paints and powders, simply ridicu-
lous." A leading French writer says; "We
like to hear a few words of sense from a
woman, as we do from a parrot, because
they are so unexpected." In the past Wo-
man was not allowed to express thought
publicly, it was immodest and extremely
unwomanly. With this was contrasted the
NOW of Woman, which in a measure stood
bright colors compared with past. Woman
is now treated as man's equal in almost
every respect, in all Christian conntries;
especially in our Republic is this true. Em-
ployment of various kinds are now open to
women. They can enter the different pro-
fessions. The colleges and schools have
thrown open their doors. The platform is
free to her; she can be editor, author or
journalist, and no stigma is attached. Many
of the most oppressive and degrading laws
have been repealed. Her condition in every
respect is different, her freedom enlarged,
and yet it has in no way proved an injury
to either man or woman, women are as lov-
ing, gentle, and kind as modest, pure and
womanly; men as noble, brave and true, as
before Woman had attained the liberty she
now possess. But the better day has just
dawned. Many are the obstacles to be re-
moved, and difficulties to overcome before
the full completion comes, Woman must be
freed from the slavery and folly of fashion.
Legally she still occupies an inferior position,
and not until Woman has freedom to express
her thoughts can the evils that now exist
be remedied.
	Miss Hindman spoke of the laws that bear
most heavily upon Woman. Liquor laws,
property laws, and laws binding as though
enacted by legislature, deprive her of just
remuneration for her labor. Woman is not
protected in her home, her wages, reputation
or property, as a man, neither can be until

[Column 2]
she is man's political equal. This last
thought was enlarged upon with much ear-
nestness, and the benefits that would result
from giving woman the ballot were por-
trayed in a graphic manner.


