EDGAR ALLEN POE

	The monument erected at Baltimore over
the grave of Edgar Allan Poe was unveiled
and dedicated November 17, in the presence
of a large number of spectators.  It was
tardy justice to the memory of a man who,
whatever his faults of character, was a great
genius.  The scene presented a striking
contrast with the burial of the poet on a 
dreary October morning twenty-six years
ago, when a single carriage followed his re-
mains to the grave in Westminster church-
yard, where he was laid at rest beside his
ancestors. The services, which were held
in a hall adjoining Westminster Church,
consisted of addresses by Professor Henry
E. Shepherd and Mr. John H. Latrobe, the
reading of a fine poem by William Winter,
and of letters from Tennyson, Bryant, Whit-
tier, and others.
	At the conclusion of these services the
assemblage withdrew from the hall and
went to the church-yard, where the inter-
esting ceremony of unveiling the monu-
ment took place. This was performed by
Miss Sarah S. Rice, of the Western High
School, Baltimore, who from first to last
has taken the most active interest in the
erection of the monument. She was assist-
ed by the ladies who took part in the first
literary entertainment in aid of the Poe
Monument Association in the autumn of
1865. As the drapery gracefully fell from
the marble, the Philharmonic Society of
Baltimore, composed of one hundred of the
best singers in the city, chanted a dirge
which had been composed for the occasion
by Mrs. Eleanor A. Fullerton.
	The monument is made of the purest
white marble from Maryland quarries. It
stands upon a granite base about eighteen
feet high, and is placed over the poet's
grave.  It has on one side a finely-executed
medallion bust of the poet, taken from a 
photograph copy of an original daguereo-
type.  It is said to be an excellent likeness.
Beneath the bust is inscribed the name
"Edgar Allan Poe." On the opposite side
is the following inscription:

Born January 20th, 1809,
Died October 7th, 1849.

	A place has been left for an epitaph, which
it is expected will be written by Alfred
Tennyson.


