PIPSEY PAPERS.
	My articles have been a failure as regards
regularity, but I must plead the busy sea-
son and sickness as my excuse. I have felt
as though I could not collect my thoughts
sufficiently to commit them to paper in a
form that would be interesting to any one.
Since writing last I have parted with my
dear mother; worn out with labor and long
suffering she has closed her eyes to this
world of weariness and care and gone to
dwell with the angels of light and love.
	It wounds my heart sorely to be separated
from her, but I cannot grieve, for I know
that she is far happier than she could be in
this world of care, and to her of constant
suffering, and I only pray that my course
through life may be such that I may be
permitted to join her in the eternal world,
and receive an exaltation with the saints of
God.
	Our Relief Society is dull, we have no one
in need, but are all very poor (in our own
estimation at least) and very busy, but I
think we all mean to do about right, and if
there was a case of want we should find
something for relief. I believe the sisters
are all right in principle and faith, but like
myself they are so busy, and each one
thinks there is not much depending on her
as an individual. They do not realize that
every individual makes the whole. How
often our lives are judged by comparison.
I have felt fretted sometimes because I had
not means to spend as I wanted; but to-day
a sister said to me, "how very comfortable
you are how very differently situated from
what I am, you have a husband who pro-
vides for you a comfortable living, and do
not find yourself hedged in on every side
for want of means to make you comfortable."
I called to see a poor woman who knits for
me sometimes; as I looked around on the
bare walls, her ragged children and the gen-
eral forlorn aspect of all her surroundings,
I wondered how I could complain. She had
some good apples which she took pleasure
in bestowing on me, and I found that no pov-
erty however abject could rob us of all pleas-
ure, if we only sought it in a spirit of chris-
tian meekness. Let us then meet all diffi-
culties with fortitude, and instead of com-
paring our lives with those more prosperous,
let us go to the weak and the lowly, to those
burdened with care and cast down in sor-
row, and instead of repining at the hand of
adversity let us try to cheer and bless oth-
ers. Let us give of our comparative abund-
ance something to comfort the lives and
strengthen the hearts of those who are
fainting in life's weary struggle, and how
much more pleasant our own lives will
seem, for truly it is more blessed to give
than to receive and if we impart comfort to
others God will impart a portion of it to
our own hearts.
	This is a beautiful world after all if we
will only seek for God's glory and be thank-
ful for His care. His loving hand is over
us continually even in chastening us. He
is seeking our best good, if we will but bow
unto the rod and purify our hearts before
him, that His spirit may enter in and abide
with us, instead of fretting our lives away
in vain regrets and filling our hearts with
bitterness and uncharitableness towards
God and our fellow men.
MARY. <rt52kl' 3-1="" od="" no="" uvtlvt'iiz="" i="" ,msih="" jdaity.="" ".="">


