[Column 1]
eloquence, or originality, or depth of
thought, or breadth of sentiment, would
be entirely beyond the writer’s scope.
Where there is so much to admire, and to
try and comprehend, so much that is lofty
and brilliant, wise and tender, one cannot
discriminate by mentioning specially un-
less obliged to do so as a critic.
	The opening address by the President
was full of suggestive ideas, and was most
ably delivered. It contained several re-
markable paragraphs which taken separ-
ately would be complete in themselves
which showed strength and conciseness in
thought and expression.
	Mrs. Sewall quoted in the opening part
of her address these fitting words of
Elizabeth Cady Stanton’s used in the open-
ing of the International Council in 1888,
and also repeated by Miss Frances Willard
at the first session of the National Council
in 1891. “A difference of opinion on one
question must not prevent us from working
unitedly in those on which we agree.”
Mrs. Sewall further says, ‘‘To work to-
gether with those with whom one does not
agree has been thought to be impossible to
women, and indeed even during the era of
organization the central motive of organ-
izations has been to bring together those
who do agree.”
	The National Council has already proven
that women who differ very materially on
many vital matters may harmonize and
fraternize in such a way as to do good and
effective general work along the lines of
progress, upon which all women who work
for humanity must be able to stand firm
and steadfast for the overthrow of ignor-
ance and injustice. 
	The most celebrated women of the
Council whose names are known, far and
wide, after mentioning the President were
Susan B. Anthony, Frances E. Willard, 
Rachel Foster Avery, Rev. Anna Shaw,
Lady Isabel Somerset, and the Countess of
Aberdeen; following these one might give
a long list of names of distinguished women
who make this grand Council famous by
the brightness of their past records in the
various lines of work,of reform, education,
philonthopy, literature, art and science.
Were we to enumerate them it would
mean column after column of names only,
but their beautiful faces, their glowing
countenances beaming with superior in-
telligence, made a setting fair to look upon
in that assembly, never to be erased from
the minds of those, who day after day
gazed upon the living picture, and studied
its merits from the stand-point of its in-
tense value to the world of mankind.
	Taken as a whole the Council has left its
impress upon the age, and the power and
force of such magnificent efforts and suc-
cesses will be felt for good upon the peo-
ple of the world in this and other lands.
The good word will be repeated and
echoed and reverberated until it shall reach
foreign shores and the islands of the sea;
the gospel of better things, the hour of
promise of the good time coming will begin
to illuminate dark and benighted nations
 through such vast concourses of enlighten-
ed peoples as the Council is bringing to-
gether.
	Women have made rapid advancement 
during the last few years, especially has it
been noticable since the International Coun-
cil of 1888, and when in 1898 the National
Council of women of the United States
meet and transact business as an Upper and
Lower House, perhaps public sentiment

[Column 2]
even among men will begin to set in to-
wards equal suffrage and equal privileges
regardless of the condition of sex.
	Among this grand body of women who
met day after day in Metzerott’s music
hall in Washington there were seven from
Utah who took part in the proceedings,and
and it is only fitting and proper to say they
acquitted themselves creditably, and were
everywhere well-received and accorded
every privilege that could have been ex-
pected. The Utah women represented
two of the great organizations which com-
pose the Council, the National Woman’s
Relief Society and the Young Ladies
National Mutual Improvement Association,
and the President of each of these great
Associations is vice-president of the National
Council of the women of the United States,
and has a voice in all measures, and in all
questions that come before that august
body of women. The women who are
members of these organizations should try
to become acquainted with the objects, aims
and purposes of this great consolidation of
Womens National Societies and they would
more fully appreciate the reasons why rep-
resentation therein is so desirable.


