MINUTES OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE
ELEVENTH MEETING OF THE NAUVOO
RELIEF SOCIETY.
	PPESIDENT JOSEPH SMITH opened the
meeting by prayer; and proceeded to ad-
dress the congregation. Said Christ came
to call sinners to repentance and save them.
Christ was condemned by the righteous
Jews because he took sinners into his
society. He took them upon the principle
that they repented of their sins. It is the
object of this society to reform persons not
to take those that are corrupt, but if they
repent we are bound to take them, and by
kindness sanctify and cleanse from all un-
righteousness by our influence in watching


over them—nothing will have such in-
fluence over people as the fear of being dis-
fellowshipped by so goodly a society as this.
Nothing is so much calculated to lead
people to forsake sin as to take them by
the hand and watch over them in tender-
ness. When persons manifest the least
kindness and love towards me, O what pow-
er it has over my mind while the opposite
course has a tendency to harrow up all the
harsh feelings and oppress the human
mind. It is one evidence that men are
unacquainted with the principle of Godli-
ness to behold the contraction of feeling
and lack of charity—the power and glory
of Godliness is spread out in a broad
principle to throw out the mantle of charity.
God does not look on sin with allowance,
but when men have sinned there must be
allowance made for them, the religious world
is boasting of righteousness—it is the doc-
trine of the devil to retard the human mind
and retard our progress by filling us with
self-righteousness. The nearer we get to
our Hreavenly Father the more are we dis-
posed to look with compassion on perishing
souls—to take them upon our shoulders and
cast their sins behind our back. I am go-
ing to talk to all this society— If you would
have God have mercy on you, have mercy
on one another. President Smith then re-
ferred them to the conduct of the Savior
when He was taken and crucified. He
then made a promise in the name of the
Lord saying, that soul that has righteous-
ness enough to ask God in secret places for
life, every day of their lives, shall live to
three-score years and ten.
	We must walk uprightly all day long.
How glorious are the principles of righteous-
ness. We are full of selfishness—the devil
flatters us that we are very righteous, while
we are feeding on the faults of others. We
can only live by worshipping our God. All
must do it for themselves. None can do it
for another. How mild the Savior dealt
with Peter, saying, “When thou art con-
verted strengthen thy brethren,”—at
another time He said to him, “Lovest thou
me?” “Feed my sheep.” If the sisters
love the Lord let them feed the sheep and
not destroy them. How oft have wise men
and women sought to dictate Brother
Joseph by saying? “O, If I were Brother
Joseph I would do this or that,” but if
they were in Brother Joseph’s shoes, they
would find that men could not be compelled
in the kingdom of God, but must be dealt
with long-suffering—and at last we shall
save them. The way to keep all the saints
together and keep the work rolling, is to
wait with all long-suffering till God shall
bring such characters to justice. There
should be no license for sin, but mercy
should go hand in hand with reproof.
Sisters of this society shall there be strife
among you? I will not have it—you must
repent and get the love of God. Away
with self-righteousness. The best measure
or principle to bring the poor to repentance
is to administer to their wants—the society
is not only to relieve the poor, but to save
souls. President Smith then said that he
would give a lot of land to the society by
deeding it to the treasurer, that the society
may build houses for the poor. He also
said he would give a house frame not
finished, said that Brother Cahoon will
move it on to the aforesaid lot, and the
society can pay him by giving orders on
the store, that it was a good plan to set
those to work who are owing widows, and
thus make an effort &.


