THE WOMAN’S BIBLE.
CHAPTER I.
By Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
	And God said, Let us make man in our image,
after our likeness: and let them have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the
air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth,
and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon
the earth.
	So God created man in his own image, in the
image of God created he him, male and female
created he them.
	And God blessed them, and God said unto
them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the
earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the
fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and
over every living thing that moveth upon the
earth.
	Here is the sacred historian’s first account
of the advent of woman; a simultaneous
creation of both sexes, in the image of
God. It is evident from the language that
there was consultation in the Godhead,
and that the masculine and feminine ele-
ments were equally represented. Scott in
his commentaries says, “this consultation
of the Gods is the origin of the doctrine of
the trinity.” But instead of three male
personages, as generally represented, a
Heavenly Father, Mother, and Son would
seem more rational.
	The first step in the elevation of woman
to her true position, as an equal factor in
human progress, is the cultivation of the
reli[--]ious sentiment in regard to her dignity
and equality, the recognition by the rising
generation of an ideal Heavenly Mother,
to whom their prayers should be addressed,
as well as to a Father.
	If language has any meaning, we have
in these texts a plain declaration of the
existence of the feminine element in the
Godhead, equal in power and glory with the
masculine. The Heavenly Mother and
Father! “God created man in his own
image, male and female.” Thus scripture, 
as well as science and philosophy, declare
the eternity and equality of sex,—th 
philosophical fact, without which there
could have been no perpetuation of crea-
tion, no growth or development in the
animal, vegetable, or mineral kingdoms, no
awakening nor progressing in the world of
thought. The masculine and feminine
elements, exactly equal and balancing each
other, are as essential to the maintenance
of the equilibrium of the universe as the
positive and negative electricity, the north
and south magnetism, the centripetal and
centrifugal forces, the laws of attraction
which binds together all we know of this
planet whereon we dwell and of the system
in which we revolve.
	In the great work of creation the crown-
ing glory was realized, when man and wo-
man were evolved on the sixth day, the
masculine and feminine forces in the image
of God, that must have existed eternally,
in all forms of matter and mind. All the
persons in the Godhead are represented in
the Eloheim th divine plurality taking
counsel in regard to this last and highest 
form of life. Who were the members of
this high council, and whether a quality or
a trinity? Verse 27th declares the image
of God male and female. How then is it
possible to make woman an afterthought?
We find in verses 5-16 the pronoun “he”
used. Should it not in harmony with
verse 29 be “they,” a dual pronoun? We
may attribute this to the same cause as the
use of “his” in verse 11 instead of “it.”
“The fruit tree yielding fruit after “his”
kind instead of after “its” kind. The
paucity of a language may give rise to
many misunderstandings.
	The above texts plainly show the simul- 
taneous creation of man and woman, and
their equal importance in the development
of the race. All those theories based on
the assumption that man was prior in the
creation, have no foundation in scripture.
	As to woman’s subjection, on which both
the canon and the civil law delight to
dwell, it is important to note that equal
dominion is given to woman over every
living thing, but not one word is said giv-
ing man dominion over woman.
	Here is the first title deed to this green
earth given alike to the sons and daughters
of God. No lesson of woman’s subjection
can be fairly drawn from the first chapter
of the Old Testament.


