[Column 1]
the advancement of woman and the race and see
in them the bright forecast of the time when the
last restriction which exists in society, in the
church and in the State, to prevent woman from
the full exercise of all her powers for the best
good of humanity, will be eradicated from custom,
creed and statute
CAPITAL AND LABOR.
	Whereas the ethical adjustment of the relations
between capital and labor is a serious problem as
evidenced by the increasing frequency of strikes
and demonstrations accompanied by disorder and
resulting in incalculable loss and suffering and
	Whereas labor and capital have no natural and
permanent diversity of interests, and all conflicts
between these industrial factors are the result of
artificial conditions equally at variance with the
spirit of our republican institutions and of the
Golden Rule; therefore
	Resolved, That recognizing the fact that sel-
fishness is social disintegration and believing it to
be the duty of every patriotic citizen to give seri-
ous and candid attention to the questions involved
in economic conditions, and to use all possible
personal influence to establish society upon a
basis of love and fraternity. We, the Council,
urge that co operation, instead of competition,
should be adopted as the standard to which in-
dustrial relations should be brought. As an im-
mediate remedial measure we urge that all dis-
putes between capital and labor be referred to
National State, or voluntary tribunals of con-
ciliation and arbitration and that the whole
strength of public opinion be brought to bear to
compel such reference and the acceptance of the
decision.
INDUSTRY.
	Resolved, Since juctice requires that in all de-
partments of service, efficiency and not sex shall
be considered, we demand that the United States
Government shall set the standard for the country
by paying its employees equal wages for equal
work and by holding women equally eligible for
all competitive examinations and for employ-
ment and promotion.
EDUCATION.
	Resolved, That in the best interests of educa-
tion and as a matter of justice, we ask that wo-
men as well as men shall be elected or appointed
on all school boards in the several States and
Territories. We earnestly favor the establish-
ment at the Nation's Capital of a National
University for post-graduate study, open alike to
men and women and that women also shall be
appointed on the regularly constituted board of
control. We heartily endorse the effort to give
the youth of the country scientific temperance
instruction in the public schools. Since a
simultaneous training of the child's hand and
brain is demanded for its harmonious develop-
ment, we earnestly request all School Boards in the
United States to adopt the kindergarten method
and to combine manual with mental training as a
fundamental part of our public school system.
DRESS REFORM.
	Resolved, Since woman's dress should be
healthful, should be beautiful in its conformity to
th[-] principles of art and nature, and should leave
her a free and untrammeled factor in the world's
progress, we commend to the serious attention of
women the various designs already evolved
which meet these requirements.
MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE.
	Resolved, Since great suffering and injustice
arise from there being in the various States of our
country different laws governing marriage, and
divorce, we urge such legislation, State and
National, as shall secure uniformity in this respect;
and since both sexes are equally concerned in the
adjustment of these relations we demand that in
all commissions created to deal with those ques-
tions women be appointed to act co-ordinately
with men.
PHILANTHROPY.
	Resolved, That as unjust laws are still in force
in some of the states relating to the personal and
property rights of women, we respectfully ask
our country women to investigate State and
National laws and to recommend such amend-
ments as shall give to all women justice and
equity, and we urge the appointment of women
on boards of management of all correctional and
charitable institutions. We rejoice in all organiza-
tions and missions advocating an equal standard
of purity for men and women, and working for the
rescue of erring girls from a life of sin. We ask
our own and all nations to investigate causes of

[Column 2]
intemperance and to enact legislative remedies
for the evils resulting therefrom. We oppose all
forms of cruelty, and advocate education in hu-
mane principles and the abolition of the practice
of vivisection.
	Believing that the time has come in the progress
of the race when all difficulties between civilized
nations should be settled without resort to arms,
we rejoice that the United States Government
has invited the nations of the civilized world to
unite in a permanent treaty of arbitration, and
that Great Britain has taken steps looking to the
adoption of such a treaty; and
	It is the opinion of this body that a permanent
National board of Peace and Arbitration should
be added to our government, and we respectfully
suggest that a Peace Commission composed of
men and women shall be appointed and provided
for to confer with the governments of other na-
tions upon the subject of establishing an inter-
national Court of Arbitration.
RELIGION.
	Resolved, That we rejoice in the growing
unity between persons of different religious be-
liefs, as evidenced in their union in work, human-
itarian, philanthropic, and reformatory.
	We protest against persecution of any people
on account of religious belief or of unbelief, or
because of race or condition, as contrary to the
spirit and civilization of our time.
	We suggest to all religious organizations to in-
clude as part of their study, religion as applied to
the home, society, the union and life in general;
and
	We appeal to all ecclesiastical bodies to so
amend their laws, if necessary, that they shall not
in any way discriminate between man and wo-
man.
	Resolved, That we deplore the outrages com-
mitted upon the Armenians, and record our ap-
preciation of the unflinching heroism of our
Armenian sisters in sacrificing their lives in de-
fence of their honor and freedom of conscience,
and we earnestly urge our sisters in Great Britain
and other countries of Europe to use their in-
fluence with their governments that they take
immediate action to establish security of life,
honor, and property in Armenia.
	Resolved, That religion and patriotism demand
that we protest against the Russian persecution
of the Jew as an outrage against humanity and as
forcing on our shores hordes of immigrants, un-
skilled and ignorant of our institutions, who com-
plicate our industrial problems and who should
be allowed to live in peace in their own land and
that we protest against Russia refusing to recog-
nize the pass port of the United States when held
by a Jew and ask our Representatives to uphold
the honor of our country in having its passports
respected. That patriotism and humanity de-
mand that we protest against the present course
of injustice toward the colored people and the
Indians, practiced by our people and permitted by
our government.
PATRIOTISM.
	Resolved, That realizing the dangers which
threaten the nation from dense and diverse popu-
lations and from a lax enforcement of law of im-
migration and naturalization, we urge upon all our
people that they co-operate to enforce existing
laws and that they earnestly inquire what further
legislation is necessary to make them more
effective.
	We gladly invite and welcome to our industrial
life and to our educational and political privileges
all who seek homes in this country, and who de-
sire to increase their own and the general welfare
under the guarant[-]es of law. We believe that
illiteracy should be a bar to the use of the ballot
by the native or the foreign born citizen, and we
protest against the entrance upon our shores of
the vicious classes of other lands, who bring with
them influences contrary to American Institu-
tions and tending to anarchy.
	We protest against what is known as "lynch
law" since the right of trial accordtng to legal
process is a fundamental principle of justice and
liberty, and obedience to the laws of the land is
the first duty of the citizen.
	We believe that patriotic teaching in the school,
the introduction of the American flag into every
school-room in the land and its salute as the
symbol and the prophecy of peace, of progress,
of universal liberty and of equal rights under the
Constitution, would unite the nation’s children,
strengthen love of law and develop the spirit of
patriotism, which is the life of the Republic.
	We commend the American patriotic salute
known as the original "Balch Salute," which
pledges allegiance to the Fatherhood of God and
the brotherhood of man and the flag of our

[Column 3]
country, as the triune grace of good citizenship.
THANKS.
	Resolved, That the thanks of the National
Council of Women of the United States as-
sembled in its Second Triennial Session, are
hereby extended to the press of the country for
the splendid reports of the meetings, which have
spread a knowledge of the Council work, and to
the correspondents, the reporters and the Associ-
ated and United Press representatives for their
work in this direction, and to the chairman of the
Council's Press Committee, Mrs. Harriet Taylor
Upton, for the ability, devotion and courtesy with
which she has discharged the duties of her
position.
	Resolved, That the National Council heartily
thanks Miss Lucy E. Anthony, Chairman of the
Committee on Railroad rates for the unfailing
patience and kindliness with which she has filled
a position demanding much labor and yielding
neither pleasure nor honor.
	Resolved, That the National Council extends
its thanks to its Committee of Local Arrange-
ments, and its Chairman, Mrs. Jennette N. Brad-
ley; for the efficient manner in which all arrange-
ments for the comfort of the Council members
and visitors have been provided for.
	Resolved, That we extend our thanks to the
Independent Ice Company for furnishing so freely
the ice for the use of all those attending the
meetings, and to all the employees of this build-
ing, whose willingness to be helpful, even be-
yond the actual demands of their duty, has done
so much to assist the Council workers during the
past fortnight.
	Resolved, That we extend our thanks for the
kind assistance rendered to the work of our
standing committee on Patriotic Teaching by the
loan of flags by Captain Wallace Foster, and by
the American Flag Company.
MEMORIAL.
	Resolved, That in the death of its patrons,
Mrs. Rosa Miller Avery, Ruth O. Delamater and
M. Adeline Thompson, the Council has lost three
whose names were valuable to it, and whose in-
fluence strengthened it in the communities in
which their lives were passed.
	Resolved, That the Council extends its sym-
pathy to the organizations which form it for the
loss during the last four years of many valued
workers from their ranks, prominent among these
being Lucy Stone, Amelia Bloomer, Mary J.
Seymour, Mary T. Lothrop, Mary A. Woodbridge,
Julia Ames, Mary Allen West, Myra Bradwell,
Elizabeth Oakes Smith, Sally Holley, Virginia L.
Minor, Marian Skidmore, Presendia L. Kimball
and Elizabeth Howard.


