SUFFRAGE.

	A CALL for a convention of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association was issued
about the middle of March and telegrams
and letters sent out to notify those living at
a distance from headquarters who would
wish to attend, and on the 18th of March
the Utah Territorial W. S. A. held a con-
vention in the Probate Court room of the
City and County building. Delegates were
present from several counties and the
Territorial President was elected chairman
of the meeting, the vice-presidents were
Mrs. F. S. Richards and Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Nellie M. Little, Secretary
and Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Assistant
Secretary, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Chap-
lain. After Mrs. Young had offered prayer
and the call had been read, Mrs. Richards
moved that the president appoint a com-
mittee on Memorial to draft a suitable docu-
ment to present to the Constitutional Con-
vention then in session. The President
Mrs. Wells appointed Mrs. Richards Chair-
man. Mrs. C. W. Bennett, Mrs. G. S.
Carlton, Mrs. J. S. Gilmer, Mrs. Zina D.
H. Young, Dr. Romania B. Pratt, Mrs.
Phebe Y. Beatie, Mrs. Amelia F. Young,
Dr. M. Hughes Cannon, Mrs. C. E. Allen,
Mrs. Emma McVicker, Mrs. Ruth M. Fox,
Mrs. Priscilla Jennings, Mrs J. D. Pardee
Mrs. E. H. Parsons. The committee re-
tired five minutes, and while they were out
speeches were made by county presidents
or their representatives; Dr. Ellen B.
Ferguson Salt Lake County, Lucy A. Clark
Farmington who read an original paper on
the subject, displaying a great deal of talent
and clearly setting forth her arguments.
Mrs. Hannah Lapish, American Fork,
Mrs. Jennie Nelson, Ogden, Mrs. M. A.
Grover, Nephi, Mrs. Celia E. Bean, Rich-
field, Mrs. Alvira L. Cox, Manti, repre-
sented counties. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne a
veteran pioneer and mother in Israel spoke
briefly, Mrs. Jane S. Richards of Ogden
an Honorary Vice-President of the National
American W. S. A. also made a few for-
cible remarks, also Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Mrs. Kate Hilliard of Ogden, and Mrs.
Joanna Melton of this city, Mrs. Aurelia
S. Rogers, Farmington, and Mrs. Ellen S.
Clawson Salt Lake and perhaps one or two
more. The committee returned, the chair-
man read the memorial, which on motion
was adopted and signed and no other
business being presented the convention
adjourned sine die.
	In the afternoon many of the ladies went
into the hall where the Constitutional Con-
vention was in session. Hon. F. S. Rich-
ards a member of the Convention presented
the memorial, it was read by the Secre-
tary and referred to the committee on
Elections and Suffrage.
TO THE HONORABLE PRESIDENT AND MEM-
BERS OF THE CONSTITUTIONAL CON-
VENTION OF UTAH:
	WE your petitioners and memoralists,
representing the great majority of the wo-
men of Utah, and more particularly as the

[Column 2]
official representatives of the great women
organizations of Utah, numbering in ag-
gregate membership over 35,000, viz.
	The Utah Suffrage Association auxiliary to
the National American Woman’s Suffrage
Association, the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and the Young Ladies’ National
Mutual Improvement Association; these
thousands of women standing in a general
way, or in virtue of direct official relation-
ship, as our constituents, we, your mem-
orialists speak in their names and in be-
half of the women of Utah herewith pre-
sent the woman’s cause.
	It is a matter of congratulation that in
these closing years of the nineteenth cen-
tury the cause of woman can, without the
stigma of partisanship, be laid before a
body of chosen men ordained to the work
of creating a new sovereignty within the
galaxy of states as an equal member of the
indissoluble Union. The men of Utah, in
their respective political parties, have with
equal unanimity, said that women shall be
accorded equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, that sex distinction shall no
longer be a ban and a bar to equal oppor-
tunity with men to exercise the God-given
powers and capabilities with which women
are endowed for purposes of equal self-
government and equal enjoyment of the
inalienable rights of life, liberty and the
pursuit of happiness. We take it that the
men of Utah have spoken honestly,
sincerely and conscientiously as true men to
that equally large number of citizens who
are now disfranchised, who are now de-
prived of authority to speak a word or cast
a vote in the framing of an organic law
which determines their personal and prop-
erty rights, their civil and political status
in the social organism.
	We are glad to feel assured that our
brothers are dealing honestly and
righteously with us, and that they will or-
dain truth and justice in the name of God
and humanity. And we are happy, too, in
the belief that these overtures made by the
men of Utah are in line with the onward
march of civilization, that the bow of
promise is rising higher and brighter in the
heaven of human hope, that with the ele-
vation and emancipation of women "the
plans of God are ripening with the process
of the suns." And we say to you that we
contemplate no rival sovereignty, no sphere
peculiar and apart, no conflicting regime or
antagonistic legislation, no hostile policy or
divided counsels. No, the woman move-
ment means only true human progress. It
means higher and truer harmony, more
genuine and enlightened fellowship, more
real co-operation. more vital and perpetual
union. The key and clue to all true pro-
gress is the larger harmony that the Infinite
Spirit is breathing into the rising grandeur
of human development.
	As Constitution makers, as framers of
the chart that shall guide us in what we
hope to be a long and prosperous future,
you will cherish in your deliberations a
sacred regard for the principles of liberty,
for those undying axioms that have been
laid at the foundations of our Temple of


