LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall,
Feb. 9th, 1895. Counselor E. Stevenson
presiding. Sang, “Come O Glorious Zion.”
Prayer Sister Rachel Brown. Sang, “How
firm a foundation.” Minutes of previous
meeting read and approved; also Fifteenth
Ward Primary.
	Counselor Stevenson was well pleased
with the good attendance, hoped we would
be well repaid for coming out. We have
everything to be thankful for  If ever
there was a time we should live near the
Lord it is the present. Satan is not asleep.
He knows his time is short. I hope it
may be. We should have watchful care
over our children. If Satan can’t lead us
he will attack them. Snares will be laid
for them everywhere. A short time ago I
heard one of our boys using the most pro-
fane language. It makes me weep when I
think of these things among the Saints.
What is to be done with our children? We
are told they cannot be lost, neither can they
be saved in their sins. They must repent
and become worthy of salvation. I am re-
minded of a circumstance where a young
girl married out of the Church. She said

[Column 2]
its all right my father can save me. For
my part I want nothing but what I earn,
and am deserving of. It would be very
unjust could we be saved through our
parents without being worthy. We can’t
go to Heaven on a flowery bed of roses.
As parents we have a great work to per-
form. We should live lives worthy of im-
itation, never be rude or boisterous, or
call our children unbecoming names, above
all never let them hear us quarrel. Its not
becoming Saints of God. I would like to
hear our young people covenant never
never to let their children hear them utter
an unkind word. If quarrels must come
don’t let it be in the presence of children.
None can pass through their life without
bitter experiences. As Saints would we
take money for our experience? I would
not. We must be faithful. Always bear-
ing in mind the race is not to the swift;
but to those who endure to the end.
Sisters I now leave the meeting in your
hands. Make good use of the time. May
the Lord bless us with a rich outpouring of
his holy spirit.
	Sister Snow, I have been in the Church
fifty three years. Have passed through
much. Have had many manifestations in
dreams and visions; and I know this is the
work of God, etc.
	Sister Rawliston said, “I know this is the
Kingdom of God. Also that Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God. There is nothing
outside of this Church for me. I have
passed through severe trials. But my
heart is full of gratitude to my Heavenly 
Father for all his goodness to me in per-
mitting me to receive this Gospel. Have
had many testimonies, have been healed of
blindness, through the power of God. I am
passing through a great trial, on account of
my boy falling away from the Gospel. I
ask my sisters to assist me by their faith and
prayers, to bring my boy back into the
church again,” etc.
	Sister Rachel Brown “I know this is the
true Gospel of Christ. I am grateful for
the testimony. We must make our own
record. What comfort there is in the
knowledge we possess in being called to
part with loved ones. We can reconcile our
selves. We know they are safe. That
God is just, and doeth all things for our
good. That if we are faithful, we will
surely meet our dear ones again.”
	“What joy will be there,” was then
sang.
	A sister spoke of the goodness of God
to her. "I love to meet with my sisters, I
have come here with a broken heart, and
have had it healed by the words of comfort
spoken. We should cultivate charity,
when our feelings are hurt, by our
associates; how noble it would be could we
say in our hearts, “Father forgive them.”
And pray to the Lord for patience and
strength to bear our trials, when we
realize our weakness. We should strive to
live meek and lowly. May the blessings of
Heaven rest upon all, etc.
	Sister Howe, ’my beloved sisters I know
the spirit of the Lord is here. The words
of Malachi are, They that feared the Lord
spake often together. We should leave
care at home, and come here with hearts
centered on the things of God. At one
time I felt that I never could be reconciled
to losing my children. But there are tempta-
tions every where. We know not how our
children will turn. When I was young
doctrine was taught to terrorize. The young

[Column 3]
children of the Saints know nothing of this.
Satan has not power to tempt children under
eight years of age. Parents should teach
them why they should be baptized. The
best of parents have children go astray.
Adam sinned that men might be. Don’t
be discouraged though our children should
go astray. Teach them correct principles
in their childhood, and sooner or later they
will return. Take comfort from dreams.
Where they give comfort it is from God,
made other remarks.
	Sister Julia Pack thought we had the
most reason to be thankful of any people on
the earth. Inasmuch as we strive to do
right the Lord will help us. We can’t be
too careful, about judging our fellow beings.
We know not the motives that prompt them.
My desire is to continue faithful, etc. A
sister said I don’t know how I could live
without going to meeting. If we don’t
serve the Lord he knows it. How can we
expect to have our prayers, answered or re-
ceive the blessings we desire. If we give
our time to the Lord he will give us every
blessing, etc.
	Sister Midgely said this is the first time
I have had courage to stand up and testify
of the goodness of God to me.
	I should feel condemned did I not speak a
few words to day. My desire is to do right
at all times. As wives and mothers we can
accomplish much. If we are faithful to
our prayers the Lord will point out to us
our duties. We often have to give com-
fort to our husbands when we feel we need
to be comforted ourselves. In order to
gain blessings we must pass through trials,
etc.
	Testimonies were borne by other sisters
All felt thankful for blessings received.
Felt desirous of doing all the good possible.
	Counselor Stevenson made closing re-
marks exhorting the sisters to be faithful to
every duty. To be united in all things per-
taining to the Kingdom of God.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sang
Doxology. Benediction Vilate Young.
