WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	THERE has been much discussion pro and
con in the Constitutional Convention on the
equal suffrage plank in the Constitution for
Utah. Many important matters have been
brought to the attention of the people that
would otherwise have been overlooked, had
there not been some opposition. It is al-
ways best to hear both sides and certainly
those who listened to the open and fair dis-
cussion of this question in Committee of
the whole, must have been edified and in-
structed
	The majority report of the Committee on
Elections and Suffrage had been made be-
fore this discussion of the question begun;
this report was in every sense of the word
most satisfactory to those deeply concerned.
It reads as follows:
	“Resolved—That the rights of citizens of
the state of Utah to vote and hold office
shall not be denied, or abridged on account
of sex. Both male and female citizens of
this state shall equally enjoy all civil,
political and religious rights and privileges.’’
	The minority desired to make a report
and time was given them to prepare it, and
it was submitted later, and really one can-
not speak very highly of such a weak and
flimsy document; women are too good to
vote and similar language, and inferring
their generosity and religious convictions
might make it dangerous &c.
	We are very sorry we have not space to
give the report in full, as it shows how
trifling are the objections offered
	It is pitiful to see how men opposed to
woman suffrage try to make the women be-
lieve it is because they worship them so, and
think them far too good, and one would

[Column 2] 
really think to hear those eloquent orator
talk, that laws were all framed purposely to
protect women in their rights, and men
stood ready to defend them with their lives.
But all this specious reasoning does not
change the stubborn facts that still remain,
and of which some women at least are well-
informed.
	There are men and a large number who
are generous, chivalrous, brave, and yet
tender and true, if there were not, the
world would be in a worse condition than it
is at present. It is to help good men do
better work that women wish for the fran-
chise. The great world of humanity
needs helpers, the broadest, truest and best
principles are those great general ones that
reach out to all mankind.
	The writer cannot doubt the good faith
of the members of the Convention in car-
rying out the wishes of the people as ex-
pressed in both platforms, and though the
vote has not been taken, it is sure to be in
the affirmative. The women of Utah have
never failed in any time of trial of what-
ever name or nature, and their integrity is
unquestioned. To the honorable gentle-
man who have spoken so ably and eloquently
on the affirmative, the thanks and gratitude
of all womankind should be tendered,
whether all women believe in voting or not;
to the other side we can only say they have
been bold and must answer to their own
consciences; they are no doubt honest in
their convictions and let us hope the
practical experience that will come
with the ballot may convince even them
that good may follow and they and their
children receive the benefit of what they
could not discern in the future progress of
the world.


