MISS ANTHONY AND PARTY.

	ON the 12th, of May, Miss Susan B.
Anthony, President of the National Ameri-
can Woman Suffrage Association will
arrive here enroute for California and will
remain for two or three days and hold a
Woman Suffrage Conference of the
National American Association in this city;
the exact dates and place of meeting will
be given later, and the conference will be
advertised, as it is expected it will be
numerously attended from different parts of
the Territory. Miss Anthony will be ac-
companied by the Rev. Anna Shaw one of
the most brilliant speakers in America, also
Mrs. Ellen Battelle Dietrick of Boston cele-
brated for her logic and eloquence on the
platform, Miss Estelle Reel and Mrs. Mary
C. Bradford of Colorado, and Mrs. Jenkins
of Wyoming who are all fine speakers and
the three last named ladies also have the
privilege of voting as well as talking. Of
Miss Anthony’s name and fame we have
all heard, her name is so associated with
the cause of woman’s enfranchisement as
to make it dear to every true lover of
liberty and freedom.
	Utah will be proud to welcome Miss An-
thony and her party to its hospitality, of
that the writer entertains no doubt. One
who has stood up so heroically in advocat-
ing unpopular doctrines as Miss Anthony
has at a time when few men had the moral
courage to face the opposition to the Anti-
slavery question, must possess in a very
marked degree the qualities which help to
move the world. She is a great General,
and her zeal and earnestness in the battle
for equal suffrage has won the esteem and

[Column 2]
respect even of those who are opposed t
the question. The legal rights women
enjoy today in many of the states over and
above those of long ago are in a great
measure due to the effective and persistent
labors of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia
Mott, Lucy Stone and others of imperish-
able memory and Susan B. Anthony who
has for nearly half a century now faithfully
labored for the women of this nation, that
they might have all the privileges of free-
dom and justice.
	That she is realizing some reward for her
diligence through the full enfranchisement
of women in Wyoming and Colorado as
well as partial suffrage in many other states
must be very satisfactory to her, and we
trust ere her promised visit, Utah will have
incorporated in the body of her Constitu-
tion equal suffrage for all citizens irrespec-
tive of Sex.
	It is ardently hoped that the women in
all parts of the Territory will make it a
point to come and hear these famous wo-
men. It will be remembered Mrs. Stanton
and Miss Anthony visited Utah in 1870 at
which time two meetings were held. Many
of those who were prominent in public
matters then, both men and women have
passed away, but the spirit of liberty and
justice and of equal rights that permeated
the Territory then, exists today and is more
strongly emphasized by growth of suffrage
sentiment throughout the world,and by the
signs of the times which are significant of
the dawn of far-greater achievements and
successes than the world has yet attained.
	Miss Anthony and Mrs. Stanton visited
Utah in 1870, and had very enthusiastic
meetings, but they could not compare with
what we shall have in May next. The
signs of the times are all indicative of the
growth of suffrage sentiment and point
significantly to greater achievements and
successes than the world has yet attained.
We need Miss Anthony now more than ever,
we are in a state of transition as it were
and such power and eloquence, such wit
and wisdom as she possesses in great abund-
ance will help Utah women to more strongly
emphasize the platform of equal rights, and
to appreciate the new conditions which will
come to them with increased responsibility
under the fuller liberty conferred by the
franchise in the new state.


