A FEW THOUGHTS.

	IT is a self-evident fact a foregone con-
clusion that woman suffrage is in the air,
and the matter is so apparent that it needs
no argument to prove it; the trend of senti-
ment and of public opinion, is in that direc-
tion—humanity’s interests demand it, wo-
men see the opportunity to help in great
enterprises, in government and in many
ways, but are at a decided disadvantage
while they are deprived of the privileges of
citizenship—nothing but the ballot will
supply the needed qualification to protect
their individual and material interests, and
secure them equal rights with men.
	Justice demands it and woman in pos-
session of full political privileges will be
able to help good men to cope with the
needs and emergencies of the present time,
and to promote a greater degree of purity
and justice in law, and in the government.
The United States poses as a self-governed
nation when as a matter of fact one half of
its citizens have no voice in making or in
executing the laws by which they and
their children, and their property are con-
trolled.
	Women are as loyal to their country as
men and they want liberty on the simple
ground of abstract justice, and for self-pro-
tection: they are entitled to the same means
to make life a success as men. The wo-
men of Utah have every reason to ask that
the new state Constitution shall make them
politically equal with men; they have
borne well their part in the founding of
this territory, no man or woman denies the
fact—it is self-apparent. What have not
the pioneer women throughout the extent of
these vales endured to subdue the desert,
and make the roses blossom—the homes of
the people testify to this fact; and when the
Legislature of 1870, realizing how true and
strong for the right these women had been
passed the BILL granting suffrage to wo-
men, how gladly and proudly women came
forward to bear their share of the
responsibility; and after seventeen years
wise and judicious exercise of the franchise
it was taken from them without excuse or
apology, how grandly they submitted to
the laws which deprived them of a vested
right, because it was the country they loved
that had wrested from them this precious
boon, believing in the ultimate triumph of
right over wrong, and that when it should
be in the power of the men of Utah to re-
store to them this lost citizenship, they
would not hesitate to re-invest them with
the responsibilities so nobly used in the
past.
	As an individual and as a woman of
sane mind the writer asks for the ballot be-
cause of her love of freedom and liberty,
and because she believes she can do more
good for humanity, than while deprived of
the franchise.
	Speaking personally the writer has the
utmost faith in the justice and in the honor
of the men who have been elected to the
Constitutional Convention, men some of
them born in these mountain fastnesses,
where the very air is redolent of liberty,
reared under the direct influence of patriot-
ism, taught from babyhood, to love free-
dom and to maintain it as their birthright,
they cannot refuse their mothers, wives,
sisters, and sweethearts that blessed privi-
lege so dear to them.
	Common sense teaches woman that she
stands or falls for herself, give her then
every privilege man enjoys that she may
have self-protection, every safe-guard pos
sible to a rational human being, she has as
much interest in all that concerns home and
state and country as man has, and should
have the same opportunity to express her
opinions at the ballot box. All sensible
women who comprehend the situation want
a voice in the government under which
they live, and if it were not their right, the
needs of the present time require their help.
It is useless to add what the conditions are,
but woman’s moral and spiritual force
might give a higher tone to politics and
raise the standard of social purity of which
we hear there is such great need all over
our fair land.
	Men will not lose their respect for wo-
men because they vote, witness the
years in Utah when women voted almost
without an exception, weren’t there as
many marriages, and certainly there were
not so many divorces as there have been
since. No complaint was ever heard of
domestic broils because women went to the
polls, one or two men (unmarried to the
best of my recollection) pretended to be
aggrieved because woman had this great
privilege, but the Judges on the bench de-
cided in favor of the women, and no more
was heard from them on the subject forever
after.
	Men want the ballot for the better pro-
tection of home and property, women want
the ballot for the self same reasons. Taxa-
tion without representation is as much
tyranny for women as for men, women are
tax-payers; it is not indelicate for a woman
to go to the court house to pay her taxes,
yet she meets there the same class of men,
she would meet at the polls. 	E. B. W.


