M. A. PERKINS, Sec.

[Column 2]
	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, “All hail the Glorious Day.”
Prayer was offered by Elder James E.
Hart. Singing, “Come listen to a
Prophet’s voice.” The sacrament of the
Lord’s supper was administered during
which the choir sang a sacramental
hymn.
	Counselor Elizabeth Colling was the first
speaker. She exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness and showed them that they
have a work to perform as well as the
brethren, she urged the sisters to seek for a
testimony of the truth of the Gospel, she
bore a faithful testimony and urged mothers
to make home pleasant for their children
and gain their confidence and respect.
	Counselor L. M. Hart, spoke of the trials
and perplexities with which we are sur-
rounded but they are placed upon us, that
we might prove ourselves worthy of an
exaltation in the kingdom of God, she
urged the sisters to study the principles of
the gospel, and live up to them, she bore
her testimony to the truth of the gospel and
urged the sisters to so live that they might
have the Spirit of God to guide them
through the trials of life, said the spirit of
God had illuminated the darkest hours of
her life.
	Sister Mary Bagley, said trials come up-
on this people through neglect of duty.
Urged the sisters to be faithful in perform-
ing their duties, said there is over 4,000
branches of the Relief Society and over 27,-
000 members; when one neglects her duty it
does not retard the progress of her society
but only the one who fails to perform her
duty, she spoke of the pleasure there is in
doing good to others, we should be chari-
table to the poor and needy.
	Elder Hart bore testimony to the truth-
fulness of the remarks of the sisters, he
spoke on the subject of charity, and showed
the way blessings are derived from being
charitable to those less favored than some
of us.
	John A. Bagley spoke of the humility of
the Savior, said his labors were among the
meek and lowly, said the sisters are per-
forming a similar work that our Savior
performed, he spoke of the evil that is
coming upon the earth through immorality
urged mothers to see that their sons and
daughters lead moral and virtuous lives.
	President Lindsey spoke a short time on
the subject of women’s suffrage, said she
was an advocate of women, having equal
rights with men. She spoke of continuing
to celebrate the seventeenth of March the
anniversary of the Relief Society. Confer-
ence was adjourned for one year by singing
“Love at home.” Benediction by John
Bagley.
JANE OSBORN, Asst. Sec.

