OBITUARIES.
	DIED at Pine, Gila Co. Arizona, Feb 13th,
Elisha Woodward age eleven days; infant son of
Manson J. and Emarette Fuller.
	God in love giveth, in his love taketh away,
blessed be his name.
								E. C. F. 
	MRS. CHARLOTTE EMERSON BROWN, wife of
William R. Brown and the first president of the
General Federation of woman’s clubs,died at her
home on Chestnut street. East Orange, Feb. 5,
of pneumonia. She was the niece of Ralph Wal-
do Emerson. Her funeral took place Friday
afternoon at 2 o’clock, Feb. 8th.
	DIED at Paragoonah Iron Co.. June 17th, 1894,
of heart disease, Sister Jane Talbot, the beloved
wife of Robert Talbot, and daughter of Dennis
and Mary Grundy. Deceased was born at Pen-
dle-bury Lancashire, England, July 20th, 1832.
She leaves a husband, one son and one daughter,
and four grand-children, and friends to mourn her
loss. Sister Talbot joined the church of Jesus
Christ in the year 1847; emigrated to Utah in 1863.
Crossed the ocean with her mother and sister in
the ship Antartic. Crossed the plains in Captain
Nebeker’s company. Arriving in Salt Lake City
Sep. 29th, and came to Paragoonah the same
year, where she resided the most of her time un-
til her death. She was a teacher in the Relief
Society for a number of years, and labored faith-
fully in that calling until sickness overtook her.
She was a true Latter-day Saint and died in full
faith of a glorious Resurrection.
		MARY E. FORSYTH, Ass’t Sec., R. S.
	DIED in the ninth ward Salt Lake City, Feb.
1st, 1895. Julia Spencer, beloved wife of Wilford
Woodruff Jr. She was born in Nephi Juab Co,
May 6th, 1856.
	She was a teacher of the ninth ward Relief


Society, filling the position till within a few days
of her demise. She was ever willing to perform
any duty assigned her, kind and generous to the
poor and helpful to the afflicted, she was truly a
mother in Israel as she assisted to rear her hus-
band’s first family. She leaves a son and
daughter of her own, also a little child whom
she adopted about two years ago, whose parents
deserted it.
	Her funeral was largely attended in the 9th,
Ward Meeting House, Feb. 3rd. Consolatory and
edifying remarks were made by President Joseph
F.Smith, Apostle John H. Smith, President
Woodruff and others. The remains of this good
woman were followed to the cemetery by her
many relatives and friends who will greatly miss
her.
							MARY MAIR.
President R. S., Ninth Ward.


