[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: October Conference]

OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall October 2, 3, 1914, President Emmeline B.
Wells presiding.
At the opening session a brief and affectionate address of welcome was made by President Emmeline B.
Wells.
The response was given in the same gentle spirit by Elizabeth W.
Layton of St.
Joseph Stake.
An eloquent address concerning her new duties was made by the new General Board member, Sarah Eddington.  Four Stake reports were made all very encouraging as    follows: Shelley Stake, by Mary F.
Freeman; Blackfoot, by Juliet Blackburn Summit, by Sarah Lewis Hyrum, by Louisa; ; Allen; Malad, by Elizabeth Jones; Morgan, by Nettie Durrant; Nebo, by Eliza Dixon; North San Pete, by Wilhelmina Erickson; Josepa, by Ellen K.
Makaiau (interpreted by Ellen F.
Genison.
This last report, being given in Hawaiian by our native Relief Society President at Josepa, was both striking and ' interesting.
At the second session.
Friday, at 2 p.m.
Relief Society Insurance was clearly and simply explained by Elder John D.
Giles, who impressed upon the sisters the value and importance of the new movement.
The report of the International Council at Rome was given by Counsellor Clarissa S.
Williams.
Susa Young Gates spoke on the "Mormon" Women in Europe.
It is hoped that we shall have these reports published in full in our magazine in one of the early numbers.
The address by Ida S.
Dusenberry on "Simplicity, Sympathy, Charity." was feelingly given, and the beautiful sentiments found an echo in the listeners' hearts.
Officers' meeting at 10 on Saturday, Oct. 3rd, was held in the Assembly Hall of the Bishop's building.
Reports of the following missions were given Northwestern States, by Sister: Margaret Sloan.
Six branches.
Anaconda, Tacoma, Portland, Spokane, Vancouver, Butte.
This mission is newer than the others, but is already in a most fluorishing and prosperous condition.
The Bulletins are freely used, and good results have followed all efforts put forth, forth.
Northern States, by Sister Mary E.
Ellsworth.
Five branches.
Winnipeg.
Milwaukee, Rock Island, Bloomington, Chicago.
Central States, by Sister Lottie Beninion.
Both of these two last reports were extremely interesting and instructive.
The Bulletins are eagerly sought for in the mission Relief Society work, the lessons on genealogy being the best material ever used in those missions to attract and hold the interest of strangers as well as new converts.
The Relief Society branches in the Northwestern mission has twenty-two mothers' classes studying genealogy and ethics.
Sewing for the poor as well as mending for the elders is also a feature of their work.
In the Central States mission there are ten branches, one in Texas,  consisting of 300 members probably the largest single Relief Society in the world.
The average attendance is also large, being 85 per cent of the membership.
Many of these sisters travel four and five miles to attend meetings, but few are absent.
12 Counsellor Clarissa S.
Williams spoke, of the New Report Blanks.
She said: "The blanks have been arranged and would be ready to mail out to the branches of the Society in November.
The work has been done on these blanks by a committee from the General Board and it has been tedious.
We were assisted by Brother John Wells of the Presiding Bishop's Office." Sister Williams also reported that the Outline Guide Work will be continued along the same lines next year as we followed this season.
In regard to the annual dues, she said that in accordance with the decision made in April, 1914, annual dues are to be paid January 1st, each year.
She spoke of our new magazine.
Said the Exponent had ceased publication and the Bulletin was temporary.
Now, we are to have a magazine to be known as .
It will consist of forty-eight pages, will be illustrated, and the price will be one dollar a year.
It will be issued monthly.
It is necessaary to get in subscriptions as soon as possible in order to determine the number to be published.
We shall expect the stakes to send us as many subscribers as we sent out Bulletins, and as many more as their enterprise and generosity can secure.
The circular on the magazine was read.
It will be sent to all the stakes.
Remarks were made by President Emmeline B.
Wells, who asked the sisters to pray for peace, and for mothers and children who are bereft.
She invoked blessings on all present.
Closing session, Saturday afternoon.
The first address was "Attitude of Utah Woman to Peace," by Emily S.
Richards.
The points dwelt upon were: Women as a rule are for peace.
They bear the brunt of war.
All men and women should unite to prevent war, and to establish an international commission of peace.
Sister Richards was listened to with marked attention, and her words were timely and interesting.
The inspiring remarks by President Joseph F.
Smith will appear in our January Magazine.
President Wells' remarks appear in this Bulletin.
A few timely remarks were made by Sister Emma A.
Empey, explanatory of the nurse class work.
President Louisa Benson of Oneida Stake moved a vote of thanks to the musical director, Lizzie Thomas Edward, to the organist, Edna Coray, to the members of the choir and to all soloists, for the beautiful music furnished during the conference.
Counsellor Clarissa S.
Williams read affectionate sentiments from the members of the Relief Society choir, expressing their pleasure and gratitude for the work done by the choir leader.
Sister Lizzie Thomas Edward, from the members of the choir, and the organist.
Sister Edna Coray.
After which two exquisite bouquets of flowers were presented to these sisters.
 The music furnished throughout the whole conference was of a high character and pleased all with the lovely strains and sounds, both of instrument and voice.
The following is the program: Soprano Solo Lizzie T.
Edward Organ Solo Edna Coray Soprano Solo Pearl Larson Solo Willard Weihe, accompanied by John J.
McClellan Chorus L.
D.
S.
U.
Quartette Selection Schettler Trio Baritone Solo Alvin Keddington Tenor Solo Alfred Best Contralto Solo Evangeline Thomas Congregational hymns and special choral numbers, the most beautiful being the ''Bridal of the Birds." and the "Pilgrim's Chorus," were interspersed throughout the meetings.
Three genealogical classes were held at 4:30 p. m.
Friday and Saturday, and Monday, at which there was a large and appreciative attendance.
These classes were taught by Elder Nephi Anderson, assisted by Sisters Susa Young Gates and Lillian Cameron.
The subject matter was a Review of Family Group Forms.
Numbering, Heirship and Relationship.
There was a general feeling that the lessons for the coming year should cover the same ground taken in the past year, in a slower and more detailed manner.
A few stakes, notably Ogden and Utah, have completely finished the outline already given, and are ready for new material.
But the rest of the stakes desire more time and more careful consideration of the lessons already given.
A meeting of stake officers was held on Tuesday at noon to discuss our new insurance work.
It was decided to send out a qualified agent from this board to assist the stakes in getting this work started.
It was urged upon all the stakes to appoint insurance agents at once in every town, at least, so that they may be prepared to go to work at once.
If our agent is desired Stake Presidents should acquaint the General Secretary with that fact.
The usual noon luncheon was served and the same fellowship, and sweet comradeship that marks all Relief Society work, attended every meeting and parting of this splendid conference of October, 1914.
President Emmeline B.
Wells was in her happiest mood, and she was ably assisted and sustained by her counsellors and the members of the board.
We had the President of the Church with us. and he was filled with the spirit of inspiration and encouragement.
All in all, it was a conference long to be remembered.
AMY BROWN LYMAN, General Secretary.
14 NOTICE.
All Presidents of Stakes are urged to take up the subscriptions to our new magazine at once. "We have the full subscriptions of only two states as yet, and it is vitally important that we should have every Stake fully represented and in our office as soon as possible.
Please take up this work, dear fellow workers, in the genuine whole-hearted manner that all our Relief Society work is done.
.
All communications relating to the general business of the Relief Society should be addressed to the General Secretary, Mrs.
Amy Bro'wn Lyman,
28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
All communications containing membership dues or general funds should be sent to the General Treasure^, Mrs.
Emma A.
Empey,
28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
All communications containing subscriptions to or relating in any way to the business of the Magazine should be addressed to Mrs.
Janette A.
Hyde, Business Manager ,
28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
All literary contributions should be addressed to Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, Editor, room. 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.