[Literature: John Bunyan by Briant S. Jacobs]

Literature of England Lesson 6—John Bunyan Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday March 21, 1950 RECENTLY a group of more than fifty mature young people were asked if they had ever heard of John Bunyan or The Pilgrim's Progress.
Save for a delayed but correct reply from a young English girl, silence was the only answer. Now, had the question asked for Paul Bunyan, immediately the group would have been discussing Babe, Paul's Big Blue Ox, and how Paul happened to make the Great Lakes. We must not feel that Paul Bunyan is unworthy of being known, for this folk-myth of exaggeration and humor is One of America's best. However, we should agree that the best in ideas and literature is not necessarily the newest, nor that which has been written here or elsewhere since 1776, Or 1900, or since one's own birth date. While Paul Bunyan is valuable and real, compared with John Bunyan and his vigorous influence upon Christian culture for almost three hundred years, our American Bunyan myth is trivial and scanty.
Really there is no basis for their being compared; here they are mentioned together because, as so often happens, the recency and newness of contemporary writing seems to have obscured and then usurped the function of great literature.
Someone has wisely said, "He who remains ignorant of the past tremains a child." For any Christian generation to arise and fade away without having known The Pilgrim's Progress would be to deny the strongest unifying book throughout historical Christendom, save the Bible itself. By common consent the most powerful religious book ever composed in English, The Pilgrim's Progress was immediately successful upon publication, selling more than one hundred thousand copies in Bunyan's own lifetime. It has been translated into numerous _ languages. 'Through generations of English-speaking peoples it has been found next to the Bible, both on the bookshelf and in its readers' hearts. Its long supremacy has proved it to be one of the great imaginative 846 works of literature. Yet it might well be called more real than imagined, for two reasons: First, his realistic description of the actual details of everyday rural life are truly seen, and stated so clearly and directly that, at once, we feel at home in his world. The more important reason is that the imagined world he creates, both of the physical outside world and of the inner complexities of human spirit and emotion, so exactly parallels what we see and feel and hope and fear that, in reading Bunyan's "i aginings," we find but an ordered presentation of what we already know to be true within us and about us. As he unravels the tortured workings of the human conscience, he tells us of ourselves as we are. His spell over us is constant and complete; while the tone he attains is not always the most intense, it is never false.
Only two Puntans—John Milton and John Bunyan — wrote great literature.
Bunyan alone achieved literary excellence without education or training. But if Bunyan achieved literary skill, it was merely a by-product of his greater intent.
Whether speaking or writing, he was primarily the preacher. He desired only that his work have spiritual strength, and consciously wrote in a plain, unadorned style. As he explains in his fiery autobiography, Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners, or the brief Relation of the exceeding Mercy of God in Christ to his poor Servant John Bunyan: I could have stepped into a style much higher than this in which I have here discoursed, and could have adorned all things more than here I have seemed to "im do; but I dare not. God did not play in convincing of me... Wherefore I may not play in my relating of these experiences, but be plain and simple, and lay down the thing as it was. He that liketh it let him receive it; and he that does not, let him produce a better. In view of Bunyan's pre-determined simplicity of style, it becomes evident that his literary greatness is not achieved by writing in a flowery, "literary" manner, but by being filled with a great belief—by having something significant to say, and saying it in words which allow the magnificent power of his inner conviction to reveal itself directly and forcefully. Here, then, as in all that is memorably said, the inner spirit of the writer lends its fire to the words he writes; never is a great literary style achieved by a genuinely low or artificial personality. Not only did Bunyan refuse to consider himself as a literary man, but the literary lions of his century refused the title to him as well. In view of his most humble _background, it is not at all surprising that hasty critics, as well as those whose critical powers were not the sharpest, were unable to believe that any writing of enduring value could be produced by a fervent but uneducated preacher who made his living by mending pots and pans among the lowest levels of society. Yet such was the case. John Bunyan was born in 1628 in Elstow, a village not far from Bedford, where he spent his active life as a preacher (see map, p. 564 of text). His father was a "'mechanick," described in Grace Abounding as "being of that rank that is meanest, and most despised of all the families LESSON DEPARTMENT in the land." Young John was sent to school where he learned to read and write, but he "did soon lose that little I learnt, even most utterly."" At age ten he so despaired of ever attaining heaven that: I should often wish, either that there had been no hell, or that I had been a devil;...
That if it must needs be, that I went thither, I might be rather a tormentor, than be tormented myself. The month he turned sixteen he was drafted into the Parliamentary Army.
After he served three years, he married, he and his wife coming together "as poor as poor might be (not having so much household stuff as a dish or spoon betwixt us both)."
However she did own some holy books, and soon they began reading them together.
After much soulsearching and mental torture, he turned from his self-defined evils (cursing, swearing, lying, dancing, and churchbell nnging) to become a preacher and a constant student of the Bible, writing with evident truth, "I was never out of the Bible, either by reading or meditation." In 1656 he wrote his first tract. To defend the scripture against the inner-light doctrines of the Quakers; before his death he wrote more than sixty books, most of them concerned with bitter religious controversy.
Soon after the Restoration in 1660, the Church of England influenced Charles II to pass the Conventicle Act, which forbade any church services or doctrines to be used other than those of the State church.
Bunyan refused to deny his beliefs, and was thrown into Bedford jail, where he remained for twelve years. He was released in 1672 and 847 preached three years, when the King changed his mind and Bunyan was again imprisoned, this time for six months. For us these might well have been fortunate confinements, since during the sixth year of his first prison term he wrote his revealing autobiography, Grace Abounding. His masterpiece, The Pilgrim's Progress, was written during his sixmonth imprisonment of 1675-1676. He spent the remaining years of his life preaching and writing until his death in 1688. If we are tempted to make the snap judgment that Bunyan was too great a soul to suffer deeply from the anguish of prison life, we must recall the statement that separation from his family was "pulling the flesh from my bones.'"' Nevertheless, he refused to admit defeat physically or spiritually, and rose above boredom and uselessness by writing one of the great spiritual histories in Grace Abounding (1666), an important forerunner of the modern psychological novel. His autobiography tells of his childhood sins, the terror with which he feared not being saved, his gradual awakening to the true joy of the religious life, and his final 'temptations and triumph, climaxed by his answering the call to the ministry in Bedford.
With ruthless honesty he lays bare his inner consciousness, revealing his selftorturing doubts and his fervent sincerity.
From the very first lines of the book the beautiful cadence and concise simplicity of his prose: tell us that we are in the hands of a master of the language: In this my relation of the merciful working of God upon my soul, it will not be 848 amiss, if, in the first place, I do, in a few words, give you a hint of my pedigree, and manner of bringing up; that thereby the goodness and bounty of God towards me, may be the more advanced and magnified before the sons of men. Wherefore I have not here, as others, to boast of noble blood, or of a highborn state, according to the flesh; though all things considered, I magnify the heavenly Majesty, for that by this door he brought me into this world, to partake of the grace of life that is in Christ by the Gospel.
Such lines immediately achieve a tone and texture at once familiar to us, for they possess the pure simplicity as well as the nobility of Bunyan's supreme model: the English Bible.
Over a period of years he had so completely digested the Bible that it seemed to govern not only the material of his thoughts, but also the very arrangement of the pattern in which his thoughts were expressed.
Once we pick out such passages as the following, at once their truth and the excellence of their statement set them apart: In these days the thoughts of religion were very grievous to me. I could neither endure it myself, nor that any other should.... Yet this I well remember, that though I could myself sin with the greatest delight and ease... Yet even then, if I had at any time seen wicked things, by those who professed goodness, it would make my spirit tremble.
After much soul-searching and many feelings of guilt, Bunyan finally convinced himself that God did love him: Yes, I was now so taken with the love and mercy of God, that I remember I could not tell how to contain till I got home. I thought I could have spoken of his love, and have told of his mercy to me, even to the very crows that sat  upon the ploughed lands before me. But alas!
Within less than forty days I began to question all again; and by times, fell to my old courses again; which made me begin to question all still. Thus, in his strong, simple words of self-revelation, Bunyan presents to us the fears and joys which have bound traditional Christianity together.
After reading of such hortible self-torture, how grateful we should be for our saving doctrines. We have now seen that Bunyan can tell a story with skill, that he sees with precise keenness and can describe what he sees.
Possessed thus with natural literary gifts, Bunyan was ready to be fired with the affirmative joy of his convictions in writing his great allegory of the Christian life, The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come. The Pilgrim's Progress Allegorical writing represents abstract qualities such as love, hate, faith, doubt, acting and speaking like persons. Bunyan's characters are not actual people, but qualities or abstractions. For example, consider Christian, the oppressed hero of the story who forsakes family and worldly goods to brave terrors and temptations until he achieves eternal life.
Christian represents all Christianity. While Bunyan's characters talk and act and are like people of his world (and hence our own), they are the quality which they are named, and hence represent that quality in all people. And how much we learn of his characters, and of Bunyan's seeing eye and sly humor, merely from their names.
Perhaps most famous because so true is "Vanity Fair," or Bunyan's de- LESSON DEPARTMENT scription of the world as it is (read text, pp. 710-711). Or note the names of the jurors in "Vanity Fair" who condemn Faithful to death, and how their character is echoed in their speech: Mr. Blind-man, the foreman, said, I see clearly that this man is an heretic.
Then said Mr. No-good, Away with such a fellow from the earth. Aye, said Mr. Malice, for I hate the very looks of him.
Then said Mr, Love-lust, I could never endure him. Nor T, said Mr. Live-loose, for he would always be condemning my way.
Hang him, hang him, said Mr. Heady. A sorry scrub, said Mr. High-mind. My heart riseth against him, said Mr. Enmity. He is a Togue, said Mr. Liar.
Hanging is too good for him, said Mr. Cruelty. Let's dispatch him out of the Way, said Mr. Hate-light.
Synopsis of the Pilgrim's Progress The author begins by saying he dreamed a dream, and in the dream he saw a man clothed in rags with a book in his hand and a burden on his back. In mental anguish the man inquired of the Evangelist, "What shall I do to be saved?" The Evangelist advised Christian (for that was the man's name) to flee the City of Destruction and make for the City of Zion. "Keep yonder light in your eye and go to the Gate, where it shall be told thee what to do."
After almost sinking in the Slough of Despond, Christian was rescued by Help and approached the Gate, Over which was written, "Knock and it shall be opened unto you." The Gate was opened by Goodwill and Christian told him of the perils encountered while seeking to be rid of his burden.
Goodwill advised, "Be content to wear it until thou come to the place of deliverance, for there it will fall off of itself" The Pilgrim (Christian) was given a guide and a blessing and started on his way to the Celestial City. The highway was fenced on either side with a wall called Salvation. Up this way Christian walked till the toad ended on an elevation where stood a cross, and a little below, in the bottom, a sepulcher. As he came up to the cross his burden loosened from his back and 849 fell into the sepulcher and was seen no more. Here Christian was given a change of raiment and a roll to read as he went, with instructions to present it at the Celestial City. In the Valley of Humiliation Christian was confronted by the fiend, Apollyon and a dreadful battle ensued, in which Christian was finally victorious.
From thence he traveled on to the Valley of the Shadow of Death.
Here the pathway was exceedingly narrow, on one hand a very deep ditch and on the other a dangerous quag.
Darkness also prevailed.
After traveling disconsolately for sometime, Christian thought he heard a man. Say, "Though I walk through the Valley of the Shadow of Death, I will fear no evil, for Thou art with me."
Then he was glad and morning broke. Faithful, Christian's friend, had followed, and together they entered Vanity Fair, where they were thrown into jail.
Faithful was burned at the stake but Christian was released and continued on with Hopeful, another follower. At Doubting Castle they were again taken prisoners by the Giant Despair and when all seemed lost, Christian and Hopeful prayed and they were able to escape. As they approached the Delectable Mountains, they were welcomed by the shepherds, Knowledge, Experience, Watchful, and Sincere, who gave them good counsel and led them to the top of the hill called Clear, where they could see the gates of the Celestial City.
After passing through the country of Deceit they traveled to the land called Enchanted Ground, where they had a distant view of the City of Zion, in all its glory. But between them and the City ran the River of Death, which they must cross.
There was no bridge over it so they had to go through the waters..
After entering, Christian began to sink but Hopeful cheered him on continually and they finally reached the other side. The City stood on a mighty hill but they climbed with ease, for two Shining Ones led them.
Their mortal garments had been left behind in the flood. As they entered in at the Gate, after presenting their certificates, they were transfigured and given raiment that shone like gold, while they heard, "Enter ye Into the joy of your Lord." 850
The second part of this great work tells how Christian's wife Christiana, also reached the Celestial City. Despite the rich satire throughout the book, despite his beautiful use of Biblical landscape and imagery, and despite his ability to make our senses acutely aware of smells and sights and ideas, The Pilgrim's Progress, Part I, is most grim. Throughout all our consciences rings Christian's wail, "What shall I do to be saved?" (text, pp. 706-707). The fight with Apollyon (text, pp. 707-710), powerful narration that it is, is far too near Our Own constant battle with the forces of darkness for it to be read lightly and with comfort. Even though Bunyan allows us to intrude into Giant Despair's bedroom in the small hours of the night to hear the Giant being counseled by his wife Diffidence about the affairs of the day—even though we enjoy this homey touch in him, Giant is brutal, and the episode is read with loathing and a sinking heart (text, pp. 711-714). Yet when we read of the Celestial City (text, pp. 714-718) and _particularly of the slower, more majestic account of the pilgrims crossing the river of death to enter the beautiful city as recorded at the conclusion of the milder, more toler ant Part II, we know full well that all struggle and pain were well worth such a goal; we know as well that when Bunyan says of the Eternal City, as he says of everything in the book, "And I saw in my dream—" he saw that which was more real and living than anything this world can offer. Truly, such a conclusion alone is worthy of the book which nghtfully has come to be known as the Great Protestant Allegory, and one of the monumental imaginative and spiritual works of all time. Note to teachers: Encouragement should be given the sisters to read The Pilgrim's Progress for themselves. Questions 1. Did John Bunyan consider himself a writer or a preacher? 2. What was his attitude toward being "literary"? 3. If Bunyan intentionally avoided a "literary," ornamental style of writing, what then is the source of power in his writings? 4. What are Bunyan's two most important books? Discuss what to you seems best in each work. 5. Why is The Pilgrim's Progress called an allegory? 6. Are Bunyan's characters real to you? 7. Discuss the influence of the Bible upon Bunyan's writings. 8. Is Bunyan's final importance spiritual or literary?