[An Ever-Burning Christmas Candle by Rachel K. Laurgaard]

an ever-burning Christmas candle this year? It js such fun to watch it stow, as though it were really a living thing holding high a lighted torch of good cheer.
Begin your Perennial candle, red or green, as you like, by setting it unselfishness, of brotherly How I long to gather my adorable grandchildren around me and read stories to them.
Perhaps next year will find us all together again. Let us hope so. Cantime, all of you remember that J love you very, very much. Mother Clara Horne Park LESSON £ <a Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior ER DEPARTMENT Lesson 22—"Jesus Returns to the Temple Daily" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 30, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, March 7, 1950
Objective: To study carefully the Lord's teachings within the temple as he neared the close of his earthly life. An Instructive Incident on the Way T is interesting to note that each evening during the last week of the earthly life of Jesus, he returned to Bethany to spend the night. He left there early the last Monday morning to spend most of the day in the temple at Jerusalem.
During the early morning journey, an incident occurred which has been difficult for many to understand.
Jesus grew hungry and saw a fig tree in full leaf. The fruit buds of a fig tree appear earlier than the leaves.
Figs are highly esteemed as a food in Palestine and some kinds are edible early in April. The particular tree which attracted the attention of the group gave promise of having fruit, but, when examined, was found to have nothing but leaves— a showy, barren tree. It was sentenced to perpetual barrenness.
Jesus said: "... Let no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away" (Matt. 21:19). The lesson taught was one of faith in the power of God. He again called on his disciples to have faith. "The blighting of a tree was shown to be small in comparison with the greater possibilities of achievement through faith and prayer. But to so achieve one must work and pray without reservation or doubt." How striking these words which Jesus uttered: "And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses" (Mark 11:25-26). The one smitten fig tree has proved of great service to humanity in teaching the power of God over all things, even the power to destroy as well as to give and restore life! The incident of the barren fig tree also teaches a lesson against hypocrisy. 'The other trees did not deceive; they would bring forth fruit in due season. But the leafy, fruitless tree was a pretender and deceived those who hungered. It "was a symbol of Judaism, which...
Proclaimed itself as the only true religion... And invited all the world to come and partake of its rich, ripe fruit." Its fruit, however, had bePage 839 840 come worthless as a saving power. The religion given to the world by Moses and others had degenerated until it had completely lost its saving grace. The Second Clearing of the Temple When Jesus entered the temple grounds on this particular Monday, he was indignant when he saw how that holy place was being desecrated.
Once before he had driven out the sordid money changers and defilers of the temple of the Lord.
Once more, and within four days of his death, he would again cast out the defilers of his own house. In mighty majesty he "...
Cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of them that sold doves, And said unto them... My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves" (Matt. 21:12-13). He had declared himself the Christ; it was his house.
Just how the expulsion was made is not told. It is sufficient to know that his command was obeyed.
After the temple courts were cleared, the Lord resumed his teaching within the area over which the enraged chief priests claimed jurisdiction. The common people listened attentively.
Even the children cried out: "Hosanna to the Son of David." He healed the lame and opened the eyes of the blind.
With courage unequaled in the annals of history, he faced the very men who were seeking to take his life and continued his gentle ministry until he had delivered his message.
When the day was ended he returned to Bethany—his haven of rest. 
Christ's Authority Challenged by the Rulers Tuesday morning he returned to the temple.
During the night, the chief priests, scribes, and some elders had held a meeting and decided upon a plan to entrap him.
They challenged him: "By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority to do these things?" It is fair to presume they already knew.
They knew of his many miracles and that he had raised the dead on three occasions.
Lazarus was in their midst, a living testimony of the Lord's power over death.
They had only a sinister purpose in seeking to entrap him. The Lord countered by asking them a question.
That method was common among the people. His question was, ""The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?
Answer me." 'We cannot tell," was their reply.
Jesus had proposed that if they would answer his question, he would tell them by what authority he acted. 'They were in a dilemma, "... For all men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed."
They dared not answer his question and so Jesus replied: "Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things" (Mark 11:29-33).
When he had completely silenced the chief priests and scribes, he calmly resumed his talks and gave the people three splendid and appropriate stories. The first of these was the Parable of the Two Sons.
While this parable was given primarily to the men who had come out in open hostility, demanding by what authority the Savior acted, it is a lesson for all (Matt. 21:28-32).
This parable should be read. It ls LESSON DEPARTMENT clear that the chief priests, scribes, and Pharisees were symbolized by the second son. Unfortunately, there are hypocrites in every community and in every age. We should guard against hypocrisy.
Jesus did not commend the first son for his refusal to obey.
Both sons were sinners, but the second was the worse. 'The one, however turned from his sin and for that repentance was commended. The other continued in his sins while openly professing obedience. Repentance, gen- | uine and sincere, is the antidote for sin. | Next, the Lord gave the Parable of the Wicked Husbandmen (Matt. 21:33-41). 'The Jews were students of their scriptures. 'They quickly recognized the aptness of the parable and were compelled to pronounce judgment upon themselves. The human family was the vineyard, "but more specifically the covenant people, Israel." 'The soil was good, the vines choice and the whole vineyard was protected. "Wicked men had used the vineyard of their Lord for personal gain, and had rendered no part of the vintage to the lawful Owner."
Good messengers had been sent—chief among whom had been John the Baptist—but they had been rejected. The Son had come but he was soon to be killed and the coming event was treated as an accomplished fact. When, at the close of the story, Jesus asked them what the Lord would do unto these wicked husbandmen, they were compelled to reply: "He will miserably destroy those wicked men" (Matt. 21:41).
Frequently in the Jewish scriptures the Lord is referred to as the 841 "stone which the builders rejected."
During this talk Jesus used almost the exact words used in Psalms 118:22.
Paul said that the members of the Church are "...
Built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone" (Eph. 2:20). In the plan of salvation, Jesus the Messiah is the chief cornerstone. 'Those who reject him, reject God himself.
Jesus then gave the Parable of the Royal Marriage Feast (Matt. 22:1-10). It must be remembered that the guests had been invited long before the event.
There was nothing surprising in the matter, or should not have been. An invitation of a king is always a command. In this case many of the invited guests had refused to come, and when the king later sent a more urgent request or appeal, they treated it either lightly or with contempt. In either case it was rebellion against the reigning monarch or his son. The parable portrays an utter disrespect for the authority of the king and it would be no excuse to plead engrossment in personal affairs. The sovereign, therefore, executed retribution on the rebellious subjects. The careful student will see the aptness of the story, if he sees that the allegory has its final fulfillment in the destruction of Jerusalem a few years after the crucifixion of the Christ.
Those who were bidden were not worthy and the king commanded his servant: Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye Shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: 842 and the wedding was furnished with guests (Matt. 22:9-10). Matthew, verses 11 to 14 inclusive, should be considered as a supplement to the account of the marriage feast. The king discovered that one of the guests had come without the required "wedding garment." 'That he was guilty of intentional disrespect is plain.
Evidently provision had been made whereby all who applied would be furnished with proper robes. The king was careful to inquire as to the reason for the exceptional appearance and found that the guest would not answer. He had, no doubt, come in by some way other than the right one. For that reason and for his intentional disrespect, he was cast out and severely punished.
Concluding the giving of the three parables, the Lord said, "For many are called, but few are chosen." "The call comes to all; but it may be outwardly accepted, and a man may sit down to the feast, and yet he may not be chosen to partake of the feast, because he has not the wed ding garment of converting, sanctifying grace" (Edersheim. See note 6 at the end of chapter 20 of the text). 'The three parables discussed in this lesson were the last given publicly by the Lord.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Discuss the incident of the destruction of the barren fig tree.
Justify the action taken. 2.
Through a discussion of the incident of the Lord clearing the temple the second time, show that it is necessary for us to have an active hostility toward evil. 3.
When his authority was questioned, how did Jesus silence his critics? 4.
Discuss the incident of the Royal Marriage Feast as it may be applied to us today. Are we so engrossed in material pursuits that we fail to accept the invitations we receive to participate in the Lord's work?
References in the Four Gospels Matt. 3:7; 21:1, 12, 13, 16, 18-44; 22:1-10, 14. Mark 11:1, 12-17, 20-33. Luke 3:12; 13:6-9; 14:16-24; 19:20, 45, 46. John 2:14-21. Visiting Seacher ITlessages—Our Savior Speaks Lesson 6—'For This Cause Shall a Man Leave Father and Mother, and Shall Cleave to His Wife" (Matt. 19:5) Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, March 7, 1950
Objective: To point out that, following their marriage, the allegiance of a man and woman to each other transcends even the lasting allegiance which they owe to their parents. HEN the Pharisees came to Christ with a question concerning marriage and divorce, he quoted this scripture which, in its LESSON DEPARTMENT entirety is to be found in Genesis, second chapter and_ twenty-third and twenty-fourth verses, where Adam exclaimed: This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh. Christ's statement applies with equal force to the woman in the partnership of marriage. She must understand that, in very deed, she gives herself to her husband. In her affections he now comes first and, if she has chosen her mate wisely, it is to him that she can confidently look for advice and guidance. Together they plan the course of their lives. Does all this mean that the sweet relationship between a mother and her son or daughter cannot continue after the marriage of the latter? On the contrary, the relationship can become even morte satisfying, because now they have much more in common. This is particularly true of a mother and a daughter. However, it does mean that the daughter should not "run home to mother" with a recital of any differences of opinion—be they large or small—which may have come up between her husband and herself. Likewise, it means that the husband should never be made to feel that his wife prefers her mother's society to his or spends too much time in her parents' home to the detriment of her own. 843
Have you ever wondered why the name of mother is sometimes glorified almost to the point of adoration, while that of mother-in-law is often slurred? On such occasions as Mother's Day, some of us are almost embarrassed by the degree of sentimentality expressed, but the instances of a mother-in-law being extolled are rare. All this comes from the fact that some mothers, following the marriage of their children, fail to comprehend the scripture quoted above: "For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife" (Matt. 19:5). What of the commandment to "honor thy father and thy mother?" Is it less binding to the married children than heretofore? Not at all. Young people, as they leave their homes to establish homes of their own, should be even more solicitous of their parents—looking towards the time when old age will overtake them. Married couples should continue to consult with their parents on important decisions which they may have facing them, capitalizing on the wisdom which comes from experience, but, in the final analysis, they should develop the ability and gain the wisdom to direct their own lives. One wise mother said: "It may sound paradoxical but, to me, a perfect mother is one who starts from the cradle to train her child to leave the home." If a mother helps her daughter to acquire such an attitude, when the latter is married, the mother will find, to her joy, that she has not lost a daughter but has gained a son. 

844  (Vork ITleeting—Sewi ng Children's Clothing (A Course for