["Unwashen Hands" Versus Hearts by Spencer W. Kimball]

Unwashen hands" is no crime. It is a crime to have unwashen souls. You remember how the Pharisees, with vile hearts, would not eat with Christ's disciples with "unwashen hands." If you had committed no greater sin than these particular Indians have who are living today, the sin of being descendants of those who sinned, how would you feel about it?
Would you cry for deliverance?
Would you grope for light?
Would you think that perhaps you had paid your penalty and that now you should be given consideration and brought back into the world of the living? In today's paper, there is the testimony of Sister Sundust. May I quote just a few lines from her. She said: I am proud to be a Latter-day Saint. You know, in my years there is always fear and doubt, not only me, but the tribe of the Maricopa Indians living eighteen miles from here between the Gila and Salt Rivers.
There were other missionaries that came there, but they didn't go far.
They don't tell the right way nor the truth and I drift away.
From there on there was always doubt in my mind whether there was a living God and his Son, Jesus Christ. And then, finally, one day your people came around. And now she is a member of the Church, with her children. "THE Indians are calling for the gospel; they are begging for it.
Bear your testimony to them and the Lord will magnify your testimony, and it will be recorded in the heav ens for the angels to look upon, and it will bear fruits.
Your testimonies and the simple explanation of the gospel of Jesus Christ will win many converts.
Remember this, sisters: If the Indians had all that was rightfully theirs they would not be where they are and we would not be where we are.
Remember that. We are here through the grace of God, and do not forget it. 'The Lord gave us to share an inheritance with the Indians in this glorious land which is choice above all other lands in all the world. But it is ours only on the condition, as I see it, that we do our part in seeing that these people come into the Church.
What the Lamanite needs is opportunity. The only difference between us and the Indian is opportunity.
Give them an opportunity, sisters, so that they, too, can enjoy the blessings that you do. And take this message back to your people in the stakes, that they leave off their racial prejudice.
Racial prejudice is of the devil.
Racial prejudice is of ignorance.
There is no place for it in the gospel of Jesus Christ. I have read to you some of the scriptures indicating this. Now, sisters, I could talk to you for hours about the problems and destinies of these people who occupy so much of the thoughts of my working hours and even share in my dreams of the night, but may I leave this one thought: The Lamanite has suffered much and long for the sins of his fathers far beyond the third or fourth generation. He is now responsive to the gospel and is entitled to it. He will not receive it without RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE our help. We must not fail him. We must accept, fraternize, and fellowship him, and cease to spurn and hiss him. And I say it again and again to all of us, as did Peter, who are we that we can withstand the plan 807 which the Lord God of Heaven has established for them? Who are we to say who is unclean, who has "unwashen"' hands? May you do all in your power, with a great enthusiasm, to fulfil] the promises of God, I pray. OFFICERS MEETING THURSDAY MORNING, SEPTEMBER 29, 1949
Digest—