[Work Meeting: Boys' Clothing by Jean Ridges Jennings]

Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Boys' Clothing Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 14, 1950 GOME items that would normally come under the heading of "Boys' Clothing" have been discussed in previous lessons and, since coats will be dealt with in the lesson to follow, this lesson will be confined to boys' shirts and suits for small boys. It is very practical and quite simple to make shirts for boys of all ages. Patterns can be purchased in all sizes, from the smallest to the largest. Materials of all types are available. Broadcloth is ideal for shirts and is probably the most commonly used fabric. At present, the younger boys are favoring bright flannels for school and sports. The stores are showing a large variety of spun rayon fabrics that are ideal for shirts, both for sport and dress wear. You will find it easy to please your menfolk with shirt material. In making shirts, have them roomy so that they do not bind at all. Make them long enough to stay securely tucked into trousers. Always use felled seams in constructing them. These seams are stronger, look more tailored, and stand up under repeated laundering. The more a boy's shirts are like his father's, the better he will like them. Always sew an extra strip of cloth under buttons and buttonholes. Boys give little thought to the consequences of their rough play, and too often buttons are torn right out of shirts, necessitating extensive mending. Added reinforcement under the buttons when making shirts will eliminate a lot of repair work later. And, last but not least, be very firm about sewing on buttons. In making suits for small boys, the greatest problem is with the trousers. Seats must have enough length and spread to allow room for squatting and jumping. It is necessary that they should not bind in any way. The majority of suits for small boys have a troublesome fly that is difficult to make and often looks unsightly. It is better to make suits on which the back and front button independently. Hence, it is not necessary to unbutton the front in order to drop the back. A two-button drop front is formed by having continuous plackets on either side of the front and this replaces the fly. Avoid separate belts that run through numerous straps and then buckle in a complicated manner. These only complicate a suit for a small child and we should aim to make him as independent of help as possible.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Keep the basic design of all clothes alike so that the dressing process is always the same.
Keep your boy smartly masculine. Frills, ruffles, and laces make him appear ridiculous.
Even on_ less sturdy boys they never seem in good taste as they appear effeminate. 845 A boy cannot be distinctively dressed unless his suits are well made.
Accurate cutting, followed by straight, fine, close stitching, gives a beautifully tailored look.
Poorly constructed suits spend much of their time in the mending basket. Oii. | aa