[Vol36 | December 1949 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Board | Title: Relief Society Bulletin Cover and Masthead]
From near and far. I must say a word about The Relief Society Magazine. All my life I have read it, but never with such eagerness and interest as I do now. It is just like a letter from home, and I hurriedly scan it for material we might use here in the mission, and then J sit down and read it from cover to cover. The August issue arrived yesterday, and with committee meetings and with six elders leaving for home, I was so busy that I didn't get to read the Magazine until late. At midnight I was reading the wonderful article on the Family Hour by Sister Longden, and the beautiful editorial, ""Psalm of Summer." We are hoping for the day when the women of the five Spanish-speaking missions of the Church may have access to these lovely things in a Relief Society Magazine all their own and in their own language. —Amy Y. Valentine President, Argentine Mission Relief Society Buenos Aires, Argentine Fivery new Magazine I open gives me a new inspiration, for there is sure to be a picture of one of our Relief Society sisters who have so many skills that they are displayed in the proper place in the Magazine, to give us all the incentive to learn and to do everything we are capable of ourselves. The fine articles about "The First Ladies of Our Land" (July and September 1953, by Elsie C. Carroll) give us intimate glimpses that weave romance into our history and give us pleasure and pride in womanhood. The stories are splendid, the poetry well chosen, and we do enjoy the editorial pages immensely. —Clara Horne Park San Mateo, California I have read and enjoyed the Magazine since I could read and have received so much help and inspiration from it. | couldn't keep house or rear my family without its teachings. —Mrs. Dora B. Wiitaker Ellensburg, Washington Page 786
Many Relief Society Magazine contributors are represented among the two hundred poets in volume III of Utah Sings, recently published in Salt Lake City, by the Utah Poetry Society. Maryhale Woolsey acted as general chairman. It was interesting to me to note that the following contributors to The Relief Society Magazine acted as heads of publication committees: Ora Lee Parthesius, Pansye H. Powell, Ouida Johns Pedersen, Ruth H. Chadwick, and Eva Willes Wangsgaard. The art work was done by Lael W. Hill, also a contributor to the Magazine. —RMrs. Kate P. Jensen Sandy, Utah Always I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine, all of it, but I have especially enjoyed "First Ladies of Our Land" (July and September 1953, by Elsie C. Carroll) and "Portraits of the Signers of the Constitution: of the United States" (October 1953). In all my teaching expetience or my student days, I have never found anything as informative and _interesting. Also I have enjoyed the articles on the life of President David O. McKay (September, October, November, and December 1953). The accompanying pictures are priceless. I could say much about the beauty of each poem and story. My teen-age daughter surely enjoyed "Special for Redheads" (by Hazel K. Todd, July, August, and September 1953). —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho Frances C. Yost, well known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine, has again been honored by the National Federation of Press Women. Her story "The Wearing of the Gay," which appeared in the March 1952
Magazine, was awarded second place in the Press Women's an nual contest. This is the second time Mrs. Yost has received this honor, both times with a Relief Society Magazine story

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford. - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering -. - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Aleine M. Young Nellie W. Neal Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - -— - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - ~ - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 36 DECEMBER 1949 No. 12