[Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL Nations" COMMENT: Mary Hallock Foote, in her picture of the Far West in the Century, says the hfe of man may be large and dramatic, even in failure; but the life of women here, as everywhere, is made up of very small matters,—a badly-cooked dinner, a horrible wall paper, a wind that tears the nerves, a child with something the matter with it which the doctor "doesn't understand," an acquaintance that is just near enough not to be a friend; it is the little shocks for which one is never prepared, the little disappointments and insecurities and failures and postponements, the want of completeness and perfection in anything that harrows a woman's soul and makes her forget too often that she has a soul. J OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO Some find work where some find rest, And so the weary world goes on; I sometimes wonder which is best; The answer comes when life is gone.
Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake, And so the weary night-hours go; Some hearts beat when some hearts break; I often wonder why 'tis so. —A, J. R. THE MAYFLOWER AT PLYMOUTH: There has been completed recently at the capitol a painting which is attracting much attention, not only for the artistic features of the work but also for the historic interest attached. The painting is the work of Harrison Eastman, of Washington. It represents the arrival of the Mayflower at Plymouth Rock. The picture was painted for Mrs. Leland Stanford, wife of Senator Stanford, of California, and is the result of long and laborious research on the part of the artist. It is said that the price for the work is $2 5,000. THORNS AND ROSES: Nature teaches us that we cannot find a calm untroubled stream of light and life.
Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high and when his breath is felt the world's wild pulses cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of warmth and loosens all his frigid chains.
Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and chill, but day-light drives night shades away. The storm-king often beats down sorrow and dismay, but sunshine always follows rain.
Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth, the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread life's hill-side path, yet never tread that path alone.—Aretta HOLIDAY THOUGHTS: Salt Lake City has put on her holiday attire once more, and bedecked herself profusely with gay colors, and on every side one notes immediately that Christmas is at hand. The stores and shop-windows are almost too full for display, though a great deal of good taste is manifest in the arrangement of Christmas goods. 'The children are on tiptoe with excitement, and gaze as they pass along with wonder-eyes, at the variety of toys and playthings on exhibit.
What a contrast the streets present now to thirty years ago, and how the little folks revel in luxuries that Santa Claus supplies for their indulgence.  uman elngs, Whether Physically, spiritually, ] ma On, a Musician is the Mother of two children and OF Intellectyay. The wife of aM artist, Mrs Ruth - They are fulfilling Christ's Bryan Rho © was Ministey to Den- "first ang great "ommandment " mark before the war and Ts.
Perle cir name jg legion and Charity Mesta js Now United States Min.
Will not fai] While their influence ister to the grand duchy of Luxemabides, bourg. En Of 194 ty-eight years old and jg:; one of the MOst original and p Provides "PPtOpriate, aterial for ular painters of he present day. She UME eve "ngs, for "eading to small Paints striking] beautify] countr children wedi @ valuable Supplescenes, many c which appear op ment for use; Sunday School ang Christmas cards mary, The lustrations, by Richard J. Rik; * make g Phic and 'THE Nationa] Federation of colorty] additions to the worth of ~ Women's Clubs, 'cording to Ms excelle t boo Pastor Alson J. Smith, js T€sponsible ' Considerable "MProvement in the KATHLEEN NORRIS Tecently quality of recent MOVINg pictures Made g Strong plea for the Ome of which "ar United Nations meetings to } better" | Opened with Me of the 'sociated with drinking vine and aking th We of alcoho] for gtanted  MT ORIAL m2 
VOL.  NO. 12