When they get to be old like I am they are wise enough to see these things. The Old Willow Tree By Josephine B. Strange Since the memory of the oldest inhabitant, the old willow tree had stood by the side of the little rushing river, dipping its branches in the sparkling water. The people of the little hamlet near ly had learned to love the old landmark which sheltered them so often from the heat of the day, and at eventide the old men sat beneath its boughs, and talked over the affairs of the day. Lovers had plighted their troth there, well shrouded from the ever curious by the almost tender embrace of its branches. Little children loved to play in the shade of the old tree; little girls bringing their dolls, and boys daringly swinging out over the little river clinging to its branches. Sorrows were sobbed out in its sympathetic arms; in fact, the life of the old tree was closely interwoven with the life of the little village. It had shared the joys and sorrows of young and old. One old man in particular, dearly loved to come and commune with the old tree. A lonely old fellow was Silas Moore, for although he had lived in the village for many years, he had never become one of the people. There was something mysterious about him, they thought; and one by one little whispered stories crept about, started by the weird imagination of an idle mind, until he was shunned even by the little children, whose love he longed to share, so when the annual community picnic was held, he was about the only one in the village who did not join in the general excitement of the event. 'THE picnic was held in the grove at the entrance of which stood. The old willow tree, assuming almost a motherly air towards them all. Near by was a stately elm, but for some reason it did not inspire the affectionate regard of the people, as did the gnarled old willow. Such a happy day it was, long to be remembered by all. The children played games and joyously scampered about; many of them choosing the shade of their old friend, the willow, for their play, swinging on its branches, climbing in its boughs, and the little girls playing house in the shelter. Poor old Silas Moore, attracted by - 'the happiness and general good cheer, wandered alone on the outskirts of the little grove. Some of the more kindly softened by their own happiness, offered him food, but no one offered him the love for which he hungered. The children saw him and nudged each other, whispering tales about him. Wandering aimlessly about, he spied a little golden curl hanging in the bushes. Some mischievous boy had snipped the lock from Violet Grey's mass of curls, and the old fellow eagerly picked it up and fondled it. "Such a pretty curl,' he thought, so suggestive of love and innocence. What memories did it arouse, that he should wipe the tears from his tired old eyes? Days of happiness glide quickly, and the time for gathering up the things and preparing to go home, came all too soon. They were all ready to start home, when Violet Grey was missed. It seemed only a short time ago that she was there playing, but she could not be found. THE OLD WILLOW They all searched wildly. They thought of the river, but the children had all been playing by the river, and she could not be there. She did not answer to their calls, and sound travels far in a quiet little village. "Yes," and where was old Silas Moore?" cried the children in terror. He had been seen wandering about, and they bet he knew where she was. He was always trying to talk to her, and once he had almost put his hand on the little golden head, but she had run from him in fear. So the excitement ran high, the older ones finally sharing in the fear and condemnation of the old man. They started a search for him, and sure enough they found him sitting by the river gazing away in the distance, and in his hand he held a little golden curl. Evidence enough; he knew where Violet was. Reason fled and they dragged the poor bewildered old fellow back to the tree where Violet was last seen.. Not knowing what the excitement was about, and dumb from fear, he answered nothing in reply to all of their questions and threats, but the tears ran freely down his withered cheeks when he heard that the little girl had disappeared. There was no use for him to deny it, the little curl TREE 487 had condemned him. Then the old tree, swaying at first gently in the light breeze, seemed to be trying to soothe the fury of the people; then joining in the intense excitement of the crowd, the old tree twisted and lashed by the sudden storm which arose, in a last brave effort to guard and protect them all, split asunder, and there securely sheltered in a deep hollow, slept little Violet. Climbing in the branches, she had gently slid into its motherly bosom, and tired from play and soothed by the lullaby of the little zephyrs playing in its branches, she had fallen into a peaceful sleep. Frightened at first by the rude awakening, she started to cry, but seeing the poor old man weeping, she ran to him and patted his withered cheeks and dried his tears. Upon examination, the old tree was found to be entirely hollow, and as like a mother she had cradled little Violet in sleep, so like a mother made desperate in danger, the old tree that had mothered them all, tore itself asunder to save them, and from that day love came into the life of the old man, and the whole community was made sweeter and more gentle and generous by the seeming sacrifice of the old Willow Tree.