Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke
FURNITURE—ITS SELECTION AND ARRANGEMENT
WITH the background correct we are a long way on the road to the creation of a beautiful room, but unless we select the right furniture and arrange it correctly our efforts will have been largely wasted. Furniture has a very vital influence on our lives. Perhaps in no other way do we so definitely express our personality as in the selection of movables which go into our homes. And the sort of things that are chosen will have a tremendous effect on the culture and character of those who must live with them. There are many delightful things to be had today, as well as many which are vulgar and of little real worth or beauty. The great secret of a successful result lies in finding the right thing, which, going into the making of your home will have a true relationship to the whole and to each of its parts. With careful choosing authentic design, delightful furniture, may be yours at moderate cost—yours may be the deep satisfaction of owning things truly fine.
The selection of furniture is at once an enjoyable, yet a difficult task. It is not only necessary that we buy what is beautiful in line and color, and suitable to the room it is to occupy, but it must be durable as well—its beauty must be more than "skin deep." Unless one is an expert in judging quality the safest thing to do is buy of a reliable manufacturer. Good upholstered furniture, for instance, is expensive to make and it therefore cannot be bought at "bargain prices." It is wise economy to spend money for constructive merit as well as for decorative features. If your means are limited and you wish a chair or couch, it is better to have the interior, the springs and the upholstery of the best, and covered with denim or burlap, than to buy a beautifully covered chair of questionable workmanship. It can be used with slip covers of chintz or cretonne until at some future date your budget will permit covering with a really fine fabric.
When buying furniture for your home the first thing to be done is to analyze carefully the room in which it is to be used to determine the dominating lines and the nature of the furniture required. Your background is determined and the wall spaces fixed. These facts influence the type of furniture. The size of the room is the first thing to consider. If the room is small, large tables, huge overstuffed pieces and massive chests do not belong there. If you will refer to article one you will find this subject of scale treated at greater length. The architectural style of your room must be considered if your furniture is to be in harmony. Delicate Sheraton or Louis XVI furniture would be as unsuited to a room with rough texture walls and beamed ceilings as would sturdy oak furniture be in a room with painted panelled walls or dainty Colonial wallpaper. In a room with a high ceiling the major pieces of furniture should be tall, and in a low room use more horizontal articles, chairs, tables, sofas, etc.
There are many types of furniture from which to choose and one may get lost in a maze of uncertainty. These four essentials may be used as guides:—authoritative design, harmonious fabrics, inviting comfort and inner integrity. Furniture for the average home should be simple in design and upholstery. Ornately carved pieces and massive furniture are at home only in rooms that are ornate or impressive. Care must also be taken that the furniture is in scale, not only with the room, as already mentioned, but with other articles to be used in the same room. The general contour of the furniture should be related. That is the majority of the pieces should have the same general shape and size. Furniture of straight lines gives greater emphasis to a room than curved,—it gives a feeling of strength and decisiveness and so is particularly appropriate to a man's room. Curved furniture lacks the appearance of strength, rather it gives an impression of frivolity and is more suited to a boudoir. However, curved furniture needs an accent of straight lines. Care must be exercised in combining straight and curved lines in furniture in the same room. The transition is best made by having one or two pieces containing both curved and straight lines, for example a chair with curved lines in the seat or on the back and straight legs. Or in the furnishings of a room a repetition of a curved or straight line as in a picture frame, rug, stair rail or step may be carried out, giving an admirable result that cannot be achieved in any other way.
PEOPLE are using Period Furniture in their homes now to a greater extent than they have done for many years. They have found that the styles of the past have a beauty that has never been approached by modern designers. It is not necessary nor even desirable that one period be strictly adhered to in a room, but in a harmonious composition of furniture of agreeable styles from different epochs and different countries lies the real art of correct furnishing. Care must be taken though that each piece agrees perfectly in scale, line, color and texture with the others. In an article of this length it would be impossible to go into the fascinating story of Period Furniture, although I may do so at some later date. However, as an illustration of the point just mentioned I will give an example: Sheraton furniture is a delicate, mostly straight line style with slender supports and framing and made of mahogany with inlays of satinwood on some of the pieces. Hepplewhite furniture, also largely made of mahogany is a slender, well-proportioned style, characterized by curves rather than straight lines. The furniture of Duncan Phyfe—the greatest of American furniture designers, influenced by Sheraton and Hepplewhite, as well as the Empire styles—is featured by slenderness, reeding and combines lightness with strength. He used the pedestal leg and adaptations of the scroll. This furniture too was made almost exclusively of mahogany. The furniture of all these designers, (along with some of Chippendale's), of different yet almost contemporary periods would combine to make a perfectly furnished Georgian or Late Colonial room. Queen Anne and William and Mary furniture harmonize when used together. And the rectilinear furniture of the Renaissance—English, French, Italian or Spanish—would not conflict if used in one room. Early Colonial reproductions, French Provincial and other Peasant furniture are very smart and especially suitable to the small home.
IN talking of furniture one is immediately confronted with three terms. To help you in distinguishing between them it might be well to give the following definitions: An antique is a very old piece that may be traced down to its origin. Its chief value is sentimental, not practical. They are very expensive to buy. If you happen to own one you are lucky. A reproduction is an exact copy of some fine old piece. It is the wiser thing to buy a good reproduction than an antique. An adaptation is a piece that has been adapted from the original to fit some modern use. It is not according to period, but sometimes very satisfactory.
ONE of the first things a person must decide when buying furniture is whether to buy sets or to buy a piece at a time. Do not buy sets for in so doing you lose your individuality. I would like to emphasize this point. Buying suites is easier, it is true, and hence used by people of few ideas and no artistic feeling. As a result we find many houses with a standardized appearance, completely lacking in charm. "More and more people of taste and refinement are getting away from the idea of the one-pattern, one-wood, complete matching set." In all but the more expensive suites every piece is of the same design, with the same kind of leg, curves and ornamentation. A varied collection, merged into a harmonious assemblage is more desirable and is often found in the better sets. The chief value a set has is that each piece scales in with the others and agrees in design and color; people who haven't the ability to choose articles that harmonize in style and scale had better choose a set to be safe. Otherwise the only room in which a set is excusable is the dining room and even here to have, for instance, a Duncan Phyfe table with Hepplewhite chairs and sideboard would be more interesting than all of one type. When tempted by a sale, for example, of bedroom suites of eight or ten pieces, remember that most bedrooms are too small to hold so many articles without a crowded appearance. Too, your room will not really express your personality. Better to use the same amount of money and buy one or two really fine articles and makeshift with home products as a flounced dressing table and old chairs painted or covered with chintz. When, finally, it is finished you will be glad it was not done in an ordinary manner at first.
HERE are a few points regarding furniture that may aid you in your choice. 1. Do not buy furniture that has meaningless curves, scrolls, and grill-work. As far as possible ornament should be structural. Buy only pieces that show moderation, temperance and restraint in the use of decorative motifs. 2. A chest of drawers is better looking without an attached mirror. The arms holding it can easily be removed and the mirror hung separately by a wire or cord. 3. The attractiveness of fine furniture lies in the beauty of its soft, subdued luster. Never buy pieces with a shiny finish. 4. The articles should be well-proportioned, every part in perfect scale relationship to every other part. Do not choose an article with any feature unduly prominent. 5. If the household budget does not permit the purchase of good upholstered furniture wicker is an excellent choice. It can be left natural, stained, or painted and will make a most charming room. 6. In choosing overstuffed furniture do not choose the large, clumsy sort. Thin arms and part of the frame exposed usually results in a better looking article. 7. To achieve variety yet unity in your room let the covering of the different articles be of different fabrics in related colors, some plain, some with pattern, according to how much pattern is used in the other furnishings. 8. Do not use golden oak or bright red mahogany furniture which cannot be made to harmonize with anything.
Often one is confronted with the question as to whether or not it is correct to use different woods in the same room. It is very difficult to achieve a really interesting and distinctive result if the furniture is made of only one wood. It is monotonous and smacks too much of a set. Sometimes a piece of painted or lacquer furniture is effective used with walnut or mahogany. Maple pieces may vary in tone and are really more charming. In a room furnished in antique mahogany occasional articles of walnut, satinwood or maple may be used. Never mix red or brown mahogany. Maple, pine and light walnut go well together. Oak and walnut of nearly the same tone harmonize, but never oak and mahogany. Be sure when combining any two woods that there is a kinship in style, that they are of the same dull finish and that there are no extremes in tone value. Finally select furnishings that have been inspired by the most beautiful of the old things, that you too may have in your home that illusive charm of the homes of our forefathers. Of the modern choose the best, the loveliest, and, of course, the convenience and comfort of the new. Combining these two qualities, your home will be delightful. If you are going to buy furniture it is just as easy and no more expensive to choose good lines as to be satisfied with common things. The rule to observe when furnishing a small home is to choose simple articles and have few of them, but select with such care that each is the best of its kind. An excellent plan is to buy a piece at a time and spread the joy of furnishing your home over a longer period.
THE next problem after the furniture is selected is how to arrange it best in your rooms. This arrangement will be controlled by traffic, convenience and comfort. The floors and walls establish the horizontal and vertical boundary lines for the furniture and all the larger pieces should be set parallel with these lines. Chairs may take the position that is comfortable and natural when in use. Furniture should be placed for use. Interesting groups insure an enjoyable room. Furniture is made to be used and a piece alone is of no value. Rooms that have the livable quality so much sought after in decoration observe this rule. Chairs are grouped for conversation, lights placed for use. A chair and lamp are at the desk. Chairs for listeners are near the piano or radio. A table is near the chair to hold a book or magazine. If people cannot use a room without leaving it in confusion, then it has not been arranged for use by proper grouping of furniture. The groups should also be related to each other and be so distributed throughout the room that there is a sensed rhythm in the arrangement.
There are certain focal spots in every room for grouping furniture—the fireplace, in front of a large window or between two windows. The wall space opposite the fireplace or any other large wall space, which should have some center of interest. An excellent arrangement at the fireplace is to have two small couches, one on each side, with perhaps a table at one end. Or a couch may be on one side and a chair and table on the other, or two chairs and a small table. If the room is small an easy chair on either side of the fireplace would be better. A desk or table may be placed between two windows with a chair at each end. A low bookcase with reading chair, table and light form a comfortable group, one which would fit a corner successfully. Never put furniture diagonally across the corner as it violates the principle of structural unity. A tea table and chair, a corner cupboard, a wing or barrel chair or other group of furniture give a decidedly better effect.
THE problem of balance was taken up in the first article. A few points might be repeated. Do not have the heavy pieces of furniture all in one end or side of the room. Opposite sides of any center point must have an equal weight of effect, either by having both sides treated alike, resulting in formal balance, or with different articles so arranged they give a balanced effect. If there is a fireplace and no architectural feature on the opposite wall it will be necessary to use a large piece of furniture there to balance it. Do not have pieces all of one height. Combine the high and low in balanced groups on opposite sides of the room. Or if you do not have high pieces use a built-up group—that is a table, console or desk, with picture, mirror or tapestry above. Do not have a table in the center of the room except in the dining room. A good arrangement for a table is to have one end against the wall, the other projecting out into the room. Chairs may be placed on either side. It is not necessary, however, that all furniture be against the wall except in halls. Furniture may be set in the room as long as it does not interfere with traffic. Chairs and stools should never be set in front of doors, cupboards, bookcases, etc., nor in a position where people must stumble over them or move them out of the way. If the window is one that opens it should not have furniture in front of it. In any case a built-up window is bad practice. A dressing table set in front of a window or in a window recess is allowable. Large articles of furniture set out into the room must follow the lines of the room. For instance a sofa or couch set in front of a fireplace needs to be straight in front or at right angles to the fireplace. A long table may be placed behind the sofa. If you have an especially lovely piece of furniture put it in an important place. "Play it up." YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL AND last, but perhaps the most important of all is do not overcrowd. "Emptiness is a preferable fault." Do not be afraid of empty space. It lends repose and dignity. Be sure you know what you want in a particular place before you buy it. If your rooms do not breathe that gracious atmosphere so much desired try eliminating some of your furniture and other objects and rearranging the others. It may be all that is needed. Do not attempt forced or unnatural effects. Despise the artificial —tolerate only the sincere. Remember always that simplicity is the keynote of all art. The dweller in the small house or apartment has another problem that he must meet—space saving. Dual purpose furniture meets this requirement, davenports or daybeds, (saving an extra bed), or a gateleg or living room table that can be extended for use as a dining table. Use chests, highboys, sideboards, chests of drawers and other furniture for storage. In a small house or apartment it is wise to keep the back- 465 ground neutral throughout to give an effect of space. And above all keep the furniture small in scale or you will feel that either you or the furniture must move out. Is yours a welcoming house? If not, make it so—make it look like a home in which people lived and enjoyed living. Is the furniture in your rooms selected and arranged for beauty and convenience? If so, your home will be one to which people love to come and from which they are loath to go. Next Month: Painted Furniture. (If any reader desires help on personal decorating problems and will write to me at 187 East 7th North, Provo, Utah, I will be happy to help you. If you will send the plan of your room or home and the exposure and tell me what furniture you have on hand and what you are going to buy, if any, I will sketch your room for you, with suggestions as to the placing of furniture, etc. I will also be glad to give personal advice on the selection of furniture. Send stamped, addressed envelope.