Notes from the Field
Alpine Stake
On Tuesday, March 14, 1933, the Alpine Stake Relief Societies conjointly honored the Anniversary Day of our Relief Society organization. The officers and those in charge of the Work and Business Day in each ward under the leadership of Ivy G. Steele of the Stake Board, arranged the demonstration in the Second Ward Church. The many things made by the Alpine Stake Relief Society members were artistically assembled. At one o'clock the exhibit was open for inspection, and throngs of people came to witness the display. There were 100 quilts, beautiful in pattern and design, besides 466 articles consisting of rugs, pillowslips, breakfast and vanity sets, doilies, lamp shades, vases, boudoir and oilcloth pillows, etc. There was also a wonderful display of made-over clothing, coats, dresses, etc. Another feature that attracted attention was the relic department. One of the quilts on exhibition was made in the home of Thomas Jefferson, 130 years ago, and had been handed down from mother to daughter. There were also other beautiful quilts in this department besides pieces of furniture of long ago, handwork brought from England by pioneers, cloth brought from India in 1826, baby dresses of years ago—one 69 years old, in which the mother of President James H. Clarke was christened. An exhibit which created great interest was the work of our boys and girls in the State Training School: 131 articles of beauty, which spoke well for the school and showed very careful training. "At 2 p. m., over 300 gathered in the auditorium, and enjoyed a program under the direction of Maud D. Christensen, president of the Alpine Stake Relief Society. The major part of the program was impersonations made of those called to preside over our Relief Society organization from its beginning to the present time."
Granite Stake:
Granite Stake Relief Society anniversary party was one long to be remembered by those fortunate enough to be in attendance. As one entered the chapel the soft strains of music from the organ were heard. An exact replica of the March Relief Society Magazine cover—a large cake with lighted candles—met the eye. A sister dressed to represent a woman of the first Relief Society and another the Relief Society of the present day, presented each one with programs in blue and gold, also replicas of the March Magazine. Former Stake President Frank Y. Taylor offered the invocation. The Relief Society chorus rendered two beautiful selections, "Spring Time," and "Moonbeams." Out of the silence after the music, came a radio message announcing "Memories." See page 466. There was no loud speaker visible, and it seemed as if the walls were whispering the message of the first organization. "Memories" was written and presented by stake board members with the assistance of members of the Priesthood in the parts where men were needed. The radio program required only about thirty minutes. President Louise Y. Robison was in attendance and gave an address of encouragement and appreciation for Relief Society. Stake President Hugh B. Brown expressed his sincere appreciation of the work of the Relief Society. At the conclusion of this service each ward participated in a grand march. Each of the ten wards presented something significant of its name, for example, five of the wards named for illustrious men were represented by men dressed to represent these men—Abraham Lincoln, Lincoln Ward; Ralph Waldo Emerson, Emerson Ward; Parley P. Pratt, Parley's Ward; Nathaniel Hawthorne, Hawthorne Ward. Willard Richards (in person), Richards Ward; Costumed Scotch Highlanders, Highland Park Ward; Trees to represent a forest, Forest Dale Ward; Nibley Park Golf Links, Nibley Park Ward; a reproduction of Sugar House Chapel in sugar, Sugar House Ward; headbands with Wasatch mountains painted on them, Wasatch Ward. In the amusement hall social dancing was engaged in, and during the evening groups of two hundred at a time were served refreshments in the banquet hall. Ten round tables formed a semi-circle in the end of spacious banquet hall. Each of the ten tables represented a separate color scheme which blended together presented a picture bringing out every rainbow hue. Each of the ten wards had charge of a table representing the several departments of the Relief Society work. Refreshments were served from these various tables. At the first table, depicting the "Magazine" by Wasatch Ward, each one was presented with a program containing the menu—The Necessities, Plate and Napkin, Visiting Teachers; Richards Ward, Theology, Bread of Life—bread and butter; Lincoln Ward; Substantial Service, Salad, Social Service; Parley's Ward, Poetry of Life, cookies, literature; Emerson Ward, Vitamines A, B, and C., Cheese Dainties, Sunshine; Nibley Park Ward, Fountain of Youth, Water, Music; Hawthorne Ward, chips off the old block, potato chips; Forest Dale Ward, Quilts; the olive branch of peace, olives and pickles; Highland Park Ward, sewing, Sweets from Home Sweet Home, Candy; Sugar House Ward, Art.
Liberty Stake:
It is always delightful to find stake and ward officers who, in addition to putting over successfully the regular work outlined, find it possible to develop unique and original projects. In Liberty Stake each month a special song is featured which fits a talk given in the Union Meeting. We are publishing the following suggestive program, as we feel that it may be quite helpful to other stakes who are desirous of following such a plan.
Aim for 1932-33: "Joy is the beginning of Wisdom."
Topics for Union Meeting and which were enlarged on in the Wards are: Sept—"Joy of Learning." Song—"Improve the Shining Moments." Words and music were written by R. B. Baird. Oct.—"Joy of Adversity." Song—"Come, Come Ye Saints." Words were written by William Clayton. In the journey over the plains, trials were many, sometimes almost more than human strength could bear. It required skilled leadership as well as implicit faith to cope with situations that would arise. At Locust Creek, Iowa, food was scarce and the travelers were becoming discouraged. Brigham Young feeling anxious, asked William Clayton to write a hymn for the Saints to sing around the camp fire, to buoy them up and help them to forget their troubles. Clayton went to his wagon and in two hours returned with the Hymn, "Come, Come, Ye Saints." Nov.—"Joy of Appreciation." Song—"Count Your Many Blessings." Words were written by Rev. J. Oatman, Jr., the music by E. O. Excell. Rev. J. Oatman, Jr., a Methodist minister who lived in New Jersey, was born in 1856. He wrote five thousand hymns,—more than any other writer in the "Gospel Song Book." He died in 1930. E. O. Excell was born in Pennsylvania in 1851. When he was twenty years of age he married and moved to the Pacific Coast where he worked as a brick mason, but studied music in his spare hours. He had a way of singing about his work and had a remarkable voice of natural range and power. One day Sam Jones, the evangelist, happened to hear him singing at his work, and was so attracted by his voice that he engaged him as chorister of his church and they worked together for twenty years. He was a man of great sympathy and courtesy and it was said of him that he had never been known to lose his temper before an audience. He had a kind smile and a true faith in God. He died in 1921. Dec.—"Joy in Art of Reaching Out." Song—"Have I Done Any Good in the World Today?" Words and music were written by Will L. Thompson. Will L. Thompson was a choir leader, whose home and birthplace was in East Liverpool, Ohio. He was born in 1849 and died in 1911. Jan.—"Joy of New Resolve." Song—"Come Let Us Anew." Written by Charles Wesley. Charles Wesley was born Dec. 18, 1707, in Epworth, England. He was the eighteenth child of the family and was a younger brother of John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist Church. He was a plucky boy and lived a spotless life. Poetry was like another sense to Charles, and he was busy writing verse from his conversion up to his death-bed when he dictated to his wife his last lines. He wrote sixty-five hundred hymns and he is said to have been the greatest hymn writer of all ages. His song "Come Let Us Anew" has been sung for more than one hundred fifty years in the different churches. He died in London, Mar. 29, 1788. Feb.—"Joy of Idealism." Song—"Oh Say, What Is Truth?" Words were written by John Jaques. John Jaques was born in 1827 in England. He joined the Church when he was twenty-one years old and came to Utah in 1856. He crossed the plains with the Handcart Company that suffered so much in the snow storms on the mountains when so many emigrants lost their lives. His oldest daughter died and his oldest son was born while crossing the plains. He wrote several books and pamphlets dealing with the Gospel, and he also wrote several hymns, among which we find, "O Say, What Is Truth?" He held many important positions and was appointed Assistant Church Historian in 1889, which position he held until his death, June 1, 1900. Mar.—"Joy of Neighborliness." Song—"If There's Sunshine In Your Heart." Words were written by Helen Dungan, the music by J. M. Dungan. Apr.—"Joy in the Beautiful." Song—"The World is Full of Beauty." Words were written by Mrs. M. W. Hackleton, the music by George Careless. George Careless was born in London, England. He was baptized when he was eleven years of age, and came to Utah when he was twenty-five. He was called upon in his young manhood by Pres. Brigham Young to lay the foundation for good music in Utah. He was an early director of the Tabernacle Choir and a pioneer director of the old Salt Lake Theatre orchestra. His hymns, of which there are sixty-two in our present hymn book, constitute our most beautiful contributions to church music, while he, himself, brought choral music to its highest mark in our history. He ranked chief among our local composers, and was known as the dean of Mormon musicians. He lived to be ninety-three years of age, passing away Dec. 16, 1932. He will long be held in loving memory by his people, and generations yet unborn will know him through his music. May—"Joy of Openmindedness." Song—"Truth Reflects Upon Our Senses." Words were written by Eliza R. Snow, the music by Charles D. Tillman of Lyerly, Georgia, who wrote it about 1880. Eliza Roxey Snow, the second president of the Relief Society, was born Jan. 21, 1804, in Mass. She was baptized, April 5, 1835, and soon after with her father's family, moved to Kirtland, Ohio, the gathering place of the Saints. There she boarded with the family of the prophet, and taught a select school for young ladies. Her writings, ever full of the testimony of the truth, have been of inestimable worth in promoting the interests of the gospel wherever it has been preached. When the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society at Nauvoo, on the 17th of March, 1842, Sister Eliza R. Snow was chosen as its first secretary. She came to Utah in 1849, and in 1866 became president of the Relief Society of the Church, which position she held for twenty-one years resigning a few months before her death which occurred, Dec. 5, 1887.
Nebo Stake.
During the entire month of January and the first half of February, an attendance campaign was conducted in Nebo Stake which was very successful in spite of the extremely cold weather of that period. The campaign ended with a Valentine party on February 14, in each of the nine wards of the stake. Every sister over sixty years of age residing in a ward was an honored guest, also the visiting teachers who had the best attendance of members from her district during the six preceding weeks. A dainty gift was presented to each guest of honor and well planned programs and refreshments were enjoyed. A stake board member visited each social, and the success of the project as it was reported far exceeded the expectation. The attendance in the nine wards was 715 on that day, or more than 100% of the total enrollment. As all of the parties were so thoroughly enjoyed, the tendency was to revive interest over the entire stake and the result will be for much good.
RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN BRAVING SNOW TO ATTEND THEIR MEETING
Rigby Stake.
The above picture is from Irwin, Idaho, and tells its own story. It is a group of courageous Relief Society women, who brave three and four feet of snow, traveling on hayracks, horseback or in any way to reach the Relief Society meeting place. They report a most enthusiastic organization, enjoy the Magazine very much, and are fully imbued with the real spirit of Relief Society.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
Motto—Charity Never Faileth
THE GENERAL BOARD
MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN: MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND: Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine: President First Counselor Second Counselor General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Manager: Assistant Manager Mary Connelly Kimball Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman
Vol. XX AUGUST, 1933 No.