[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: You Can | Author: Jennings]
[You Can Sew— II. Marking, Pinning, and Basting Jean Ridges Jennings]
One of the lady missionaries by the name of Ann Farnsworth, from Los Angeles, has come to mean more and more to me through the months. Although I won't say anything to her while I'm on my mission, I am quite sure from her looks and actions that she feels the same. She is a wonderful gitl, and means everything to me, Karen. "IT can't stand the thought of making you unhappy. But I'm sure you'll be sweet and sensible about this, as you always are THE REQUEST Well, this is it, Mary thought, not stopping to finish the few short remaining lines of the letter. This is the test that I knew had to come to her some day, in one way or another. Aloud she murmured _ her daughter's name. "Karen." 'The one simple word expressed all the emotion of her mother heart, love, understanding, concern for the future, and a fierce desire to protect and keep her young from sorrow. 'Tears sprang to her eyes as she sank to her knees, and her arms enveloped her daughter in a gesture of comfort. UT Karen's eyes were dry. Almost calmly she pulled away from her mother and arose. All her life the girl had made a confidant of her mother, and had always come running for consolation and_ solace whether her grief was real or imagined. Now Mary knew that her comforting arms were not enough. This was something Karen had to meet and conquer by herself. "Let's not talk about it now, Mother. I want to think." 'aut and trembling, she walked to her room, where she sat miserable but tearless, gazing out of the window. Oh, if she would only break down and cry! Mary thought to herself as she cautiously stood at the door looking into the girl's room. But if Karen heard her, she made no move whatever to signify that she knew her mother was there. With the greatest of care, Mary prepared Karen's favorite luncheon dishes and took them on an attractive tray to her room. "I don't want any lunch." Karen shook her head. 253 "Try to eat a few bites anyway. See I have your favorite salad and some hot muffins. It will make you feel better." Then, anticipating another refusal, she hastily added, "TI just leave it here on the table." She felt that it was no time for preaching or even encouraging, but hastily set the tray down and left, feeling sure that Karen would succumb to the temptation of chicken salad, blueberry muffins, and the enticing milk-shake. Later, when Mary picked up the tray, Karen was lying down with her eyes closed. But a goodly portion of the food had been consumed. The next few weeks were difficult ones for all at the Lunford home. 'Tears now often relieved the girl's suffering, but she was nervous, cross, and temperamental. In spite of all that could be said to her in the spirit of love and comfort by her parents, she refused to accept the situation. "But I love him! He's mine. I'm certain he's making a mistake. I'm sure God won't let this happen to me. 'Things will be different when he's home and sees me again. He still thinks of me as young, and doesn't realize I'm grown. I'm sure I can win him back!" In_ such phrases she constantly expressed her attitude, and refused to consider the reverse possibility. "But perhaps God has other plans for you. 'This may be his will. Later, you may thank him fervently that you didn't marry Russ." Her mother and father tried to reason with her, and many examples were given her of people whose romances had been interrupted, who _ later were very happy that they had thus 254 been saved from a marriage which undoubtedly would have been a mistake. They appealed to her pride. "You certainly don't want Russ if he doesn't want you. You can't throw yourself at him and demand that he marry you. It would only cheapen you in his eyes, and make him despise you." "Mother, I don't think I have any pride left. I love him, and I want him more than anything in the world. I could stand poverty, sickness, anything — if I only had Russ. And I would be willing to do almost anything, or make any sacrifice to get him." AREN ate little, refused to see or talk with her friends, and only the loving patience of her mother, who continually endeavored to keep her busy and divert her mind, kept things on an even keel. All this was extremely trying and nerve-wracking on the elder Lunfords, who often would gladly have "turned her over the knee, and given her a good spanking," as Father Lunford expressed it, if it would have done any good. Then one day they heard that Russ was home, and that he was to make his report at his ward sacrament meeting the following Sunday. But he did not attempt to contact Karen, and how thankful Mary was that he did not live next door, as he had before they moved to the new house. That night as Mary _ to " sleep seemed as a friend who had departed for a foreign shore. Hour after hour she lay awake, wondering, hoping, and praying. She heard RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1958 the far-off whistle of the train, the rumble of trucks on the nearby highway, the bark of a dog, and an occasional roar of an airplane motor as it cut a swath through the stillness of the sky. And ever as an undertone there was the chatter of the grasshoppers and katydids as they gossiped together during the warm summer night. With the soft, wavering light of the early dawn, she fell asleep with the assurance in her heart that her prayers would be answered. "Father," Mrs. Lunford said to her husband on Sunday morning, "at Karen's request we will fast today. We are to fast until after the sacrament meeting this evening, which we will attend at our old ward, where Russ will make his report. We are praying — not that she may have her own way in the matter, but that she may realize what is the Lord's will." "Very well," replied Mr. Ford. "I will fast with you." LunT has been said that it takes more than mere faith to perform a miracle, there must be a unity of faith, love, and understanding. Karen dressed simply in white for the evening meeting, but she had never looked more beautiful or charming. They arrived just as the service was ready to start and quietly took their places. Mary felt Karen's nerves go taut as she recognized Russ on the stand. As the service progressed, she gained a little more composure, but although she appeared outwardly calm, the girl was nervous and trembling. Then, quite suddenly, as Russ was THE REQUEST about halfway through his report, Mary felt her daughter relax, and her breathing become slower and more steady. A quick glance at her face showed Mary, to her astonishment, that Karen was wearing a look of calmness and self-assurance. A sigh of relief almost escaped the mother's lips, as she, too, began to relax. As soon as the meeting was over, Karen tranquilly walked up _ the aisle, followed by her parents, and joined the group waiting to congratulate and shake the hand of the newly returned missionary. Warmly, and with a smile, when her turn came, she held out her hand with perfect self-control. "Congratulations, Russ," she said, 255 "you did very well. I'm proud to be your friend." 'Then she simply walked on, without a _ backward glance, making room for the next in line. "Mother," Karen said when they were once again at home, "you know something just came over me, all of a sudden, as I sat there listening to Russ talk. I just knew, as well as I ever knew anything, that he wasn't the man for me. He seemed like — well, almost like a stranger. And at once I didn't want him any more, I felt perfectly contented and happy. "And now that matter is over and settled, didn't I hear you saying something the other day about my returning to the 'Y' this fall?" ie aati Confidential Ida Elaine James The sudden flight, the song far on the hill, The secret twilight haunts of whippoorwill; The lacquered leaf, under first glint of sun— Pearls on water that float to oblivion; The scuttling insects, wind through the apple tree, All hide their mystery from you and me: All these, and more, intimately revealed To a young stripling wandering far afield! AC) nterum Grace Barker Wilson Today I set out pansies in the box Outside the door. Tomorrow I'll plant hollyhocks. Then two days more Will give me time to trim the hedge, And clip the lawn, And take the sharpness from time's edge While he is gone. You Chin San — il Mlarking. Pinning. Te Basting Jean Ridges Jennings EHIND every well-made, smartlooking dress or suit, is a long story of care—care taken in a succession of processes and steps that lead up to the successfully completed garment. Without meticulous attention to little details, few clothes will merit the "success" label. Proper planning in anything you do is a "must.'"". This holds true in sewing as with any other jobs to be done. Haphazard work wastes time and causes errors. Marking, pinning, and basting are three of the steps that are part of the care and planning needed in making fine clothes. When all pieces have been cut out, the next step is to transfer to the fabric the various construction marks printed on the pattern—dart and pleat lines, buttonhole and pocket locations, top-of-sleeve mark, and so on. Get the habit of transferring all pattern markings accurately to your material, so you will know how to sew the various pieces together. Often a very slight deviation throws a whole dress out of line and causes untold trouble. On most fabrics, a speedy and accurate method of marking is the use of dressmaker's tracing or carbon and a tracing wheel. Straight lines, such as darts, pleats, etc., are marked by using the tracing wheel against the edge of a firmly held ruler. Remember that carbon is used only on the wrong side of the material as it is not removable. Place one piece of the tracing paper, colored side up, beneath the under layer of fabric. Place a second piece, colored side down bePage 256 tween the top layer of fabric and the pattern piece. 'Trace over pattern lines with the wheel. Single points, such as the perforation making the sleeve top, are marked with two short crossed lines. Some materials, such as heavy tweeds and loosely woven sheer woolens, may not mark clearly with the tracing wheel. On other lightweight or transparent fabrics, the markings will show through on the right side. For both these types of materials, tailor's tacks give a better mark. On all kinds of cloth when marks are needed on the night side, tailor's tacks should be used, since other methods may leave a spot that cannot be removed. A chalked thread run through both layers of fabric at frequent intervals is a quick and easy method of indicating seam lines. Make a line of long and _ short basting stitches of contrasting thread down the center front and center back of blouse and skirt sections to help as a fitting guide. The less a garment is handled in the making, the better it will look when completed. Repeated stitching and picking out to remedy mistakes gives the cloth a worked-over look and detracts from its newness. Both time and effort can be saved in the end by taking more pains in the beginning with careful pining and basting to insure accurate machine stitching the f
