[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Irene | Author: Parker]
Woodford Appointed to General Board Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer, Relief Society IRENE B. WOODFORD RENE Briggs Woodford, a convert to the Church and a native of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, was appointed a member of the Relief Society General Board on February 19, 1958. She was born of English and Welsh parentage, being the daughter of George and Jessie Kemble Briggs. Her father died when Irene was only eighteen months old and her mother when she was seventeen. In her early youth she was taught good Christian principles by her mother. She started school in Cardiff, Wales, where she lived for two years. Upon completion of her education in Alberta, she taught in the public and high schools of that Province. It was in February of 1943 that she first heard the gospel, immediately recognized its truth, and was baptized only four months later. In September of 1944 her youthful desire to be a missionary was realized when she was called to serve in the Canadian Mission. Since her acceptance of the gospel, Sister Woodford's devotion and service to the Church have ever claimed first place in all her activities. She is a student of the gospel, a gifted speaker, capable teacher, and influential leader. Her unquenchable quest for knowledge led to her obtaining B. A. And M. A. Degrees in archaeology from the Brigham Young University, where she later became a member of the faculty. On June 16, 1950, she was married in the Salt Lake 'Temple to Hugh J. Woodford, a native of Australia. 'The Woodfords returned about a year ago from Hawaii where Brother Woodford was teaching in the Church College of Hawaii at Laie. While there they both served as missionaries on the temple grounds and also were temple workers. Sister Woodford's experience in Church work also includes teaching in Relief Society, Sunday School, Genealogy, and Seminary, and service on Relief Society and Sunday School stake boards. At the time of her appointment, she was second counselor in the Relief Society of the Twenty-first Ward, Emigration Stake. With her experience, — service, training, faith in the Lord, deep humility, and firm testimony of the gospel, Sister Woodford is well qualified for this broader opportunity for service in the Church to which she has dedicated her all. Page 221 — he Jongan ITlisston Preston R.