[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Chamberlin]
[POETRY Pattern of Wings— Frontispiece Vesta P. Crawford 209 Unfoldment Amy Viau 215 The Gift of Rain Dora Toone Brough 215 Portico to Beauty Leslie Savage Clark 218 Note to a Woodpecker Alice Morrey Bailey 235 Invitation Mabel Jones Gabbott 241 Sounding Light - Maude Rubin 248 Flowering Peach Tree Christie Lund Coles 249 Confidential Ida Elaine James 255 Interim Grace Barker Wilson 255 True Sight Mabel Law Atkinson 262 Spring SablDoth Dorothy J. Roberts 267 The Green Day Elsie McKinnon Stracham 268 In Spring Sudie Stuart Hager 279 Proclamation Grace Ingles Frost 279 Spring Enola Chamberlin]
stake  leader,  they  are  vital  to  me.  But 
for  plain  enjoyment  I  read  the  stories  and 
poetry. 
— Sadie  H.  Greenhalgh 
I  don't  know  what  I  would  do  if  my 
Relief  Society  Magazine  arrived  on  a  day 
when  I  couldn't  take  time  off  to  read  it. 
Even  the  busiest  days,  I  can't  put  it 
down  until  I  have  read  it  from  co\er  to 
cover.  My  husband  and  I  were  pleasantly 
surprised  to  see  the  picture  of  Dr.  Russell 
Nelson  and  his  family  and  the  lo\ely 
article  written  by  his  sweet  wife  Dantzel 
in  the  February  issue.  Dr.  Nelson  helped 
the  Lord  spare  my  life  while  in  Boston, 
for  which  we  are  so  extremely  grateful. 
Because  of  this  marvelous  blessing  I  have 
been  given  the  opportunity  of  being  Re- 
lief Society  president,  and  I  gain  so  much 
from  the  wonderful  companion.  The  Re- 
Jief  Society  Magazine. 
— Grace  S.  Mortimer 
Nephi,  Utah 
La  Marque,  Texas 
Although  I  am  a  man,  I  enjoy  The 
ReUef  Society  Magazine  as  much  as  my 
Relief  Society  sister  does.  I  worked 
with  Relief  Societies  in  Missoula,  Mon- 
tana, about  thirty  years  ago,  also  in  Idaho 
in  two  different  wards.  May  I  say  I  have 
never  worked  with  finer,  cleaner,  or  sweeter 
ladies  than  those  sisters  were.  I  am  past 
eighty-two  years  and  have  been  a  Church 
member  since  1897.  ^  ^"^  ^^^^  oldest 
member  in  Missoula  Ward. 
— Ariel  G.  Nielsen 
Missoula,  Montana 
Just  a  line  to  express  my  appreciation 
for  Mabel  Law  Atkinson's  beautiful  poem 
"Perfect  Prelude"  in  the  January  1958 
issue  of  the  Magazine.  Her  last  thought: 
"I  never  knew  the  mellowed  years  could 
be  the  perfect  prelude  to  eternity,"  is  so' 
wonderful  and  so  true.  .  .  .  We  appreci- 
ate not  only  the  Magazine,  but  also  the 
wonderful  material  given  us  for  Relief 
Society  work.  The  lessons  are  outstand- 
ing. Many  thanks.  I  have  had  the  priN'i- 
lege  of  serving  in  Relief  Society  more 
than  forty-five  years  and  feel  it  has  been 
a  splendid  experience. 
—Elizabeth  H.  Welker 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Page  282
