[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
Nibley Assistant Church Historian HE Tongan Mission was founded in July 1891, when two elders from the Samoan Mission, Brigham Smoot and Alva J. Butler, were sent to Nukualofa to begin the work of proselyting. On the first trip a native Tongan from Samoa accompanied them. At Nukualofa they visited the king of the Tongan people, Jiaoji Tubou, and received from him permission to preach the gospel to the natives. 'They also secured a small tract of land in the village of Mua, on the island of Tongatabu, on which they erected a suitable mission home. This home was dedicated by Elder Smoot on May 15, 1892. The two elders also purchased a small boat, thirteen feet long, in which they could visit adjacent islands. 'The islands were divided into three groups, Tongatabu, Haapai, and Vavau. Elder Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian, visited the 'Tongan Mission in 1895, while making a trip to the Pacific missions and gathering facts pertaining to their history. On account of the meager results obtained by the early missionaries Photograph submitted by Sylvia R. Stone BLOW HOLES ON THE COAST OF TONGA Page 222 THE TONGAN MISSION ys I a Photograph submitted by Sylvia R. Stone PALACE OF THE QUEEN, TONGA to the Tongan Islands, it was thought advisable by the First Presidency, in 1897, temporarily to discontinue missionary work. Ten years later, in 1907, the Tongan Mission was reopened, with Willard L. Smith as president. A new mission home was built; the headquarters was established at Nukualofa; schools were erected on several of the islands, and small branches of the Church were organized. Missionary work was further stimulated in 1921 by an official visit to the' Tongan Mission of Elder David O. McKay of the Council of the Twelve, who was making a world tour of the missions of the Church, accompanied by Elder Hugh J. Cannon. The membership of the 'Tongan Mission was given in December 1930, aS 1,232. In October 1957, there were 4,439 members in the mission, located in fifty-one branches. Fred W. Stone is serving as the mission president. Forty-two Relief Society organizations, with 702 members, were reported in December 1957. Sylvia R. Stone presides over the 'Tongan Mission Relief Society. Note: 'The cover for this Magazine, Liahona College, Tonga, was submitted by Elder Edward O. Anderson, one of the Church architects.

See also "Recipes From the Tongan Mission,'' by Sylvia R. Stone, page 247. To Be a Queen Myrtle M. Dean OR a short, wonderful time this morning Nancy had felt happiness. She felt it from the crown of her golden head to the tips of her toes, which skipped along as light as thistledown. She had walked from the bus stop in the early morning sunshine, to the civic auditorium, where she would meet all of the girls who were running for queen of the Days of Fortyseven. Nancy had been chosen to represent her town. Rosedale was just a little place, but she was glad that she could represent them in such a grand affair. But now all the happiness had gone out of her face, and her feet felt heavy and leaden. She felt alone.... She felt alone even though all the other girls were here.