[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Its | Author: Part]
[It's Smart to Take Part]

She was a remote little figure sitting here with all of these pretty, vivacious, and confident would-be queens. Before this morning, Nancy had never thought that to run in a queen contest could be anything but a very wonderful experience. 'There were queens for so many occasions nowadays; queens for so many events every year, in every town and state and country. She had always looked on with awe, admiring the beauty of the girls and the loveliness of their dresses. She had never dreamed of being in the running herself. Now she found that there was much more than excitement, suspense, and thrills. 'There were pettiness and envy and unhappiness. This morning the girls were to go to the auditorium for a final briefing. 'They must report what their talent performance would be. Even Page 224 now, Nancy was not sure what she would do, though she had tried so hard to decide. She played the piano and did a little vocal solo work in high school programs, but she knew she would not stand a chance in music against all the near professional talent there would be. It will have to be a classic reading. But what will I give? Nancy thought. She heard the happy, excited voices of the girls as she came near the entrance of the auditorium. There began to be a frightened feeling in the pit of her stomach. She decided to go to the ladies lounge and smooth her hair and straighten her dress. She looked into the mirror, and there was happiness in her eyes. It was so wonderful that she was one of the chosen girls, for the first time in her life. She was about to go in to the others, when she was sure she heard her name spoken. She _ peeked around the corner of the door. A group of girls stood at one side of the room talking. She could not help hearing what they said. The light went out of her morning, and a heavy weight came into her chest as she listened. "Where did that girl, Nancy Bailey come from? She must be out from the sticks some place." It was Isabel Blake who spoke. "Must be short of material down where she's from,' someone else said. Deep color flooded Nancy's cheeks, and there was a chill in her body. Why did I ever come here? Why did I think that I could run for queen against all of these sophisti- TO BE A QUEEN cated girls? Many of them have been queens before. Grandma Bailey was so anxious that I try. It is her fault that I am here. Nancy felt sick inside. Then she heard a more friendly voice say, "One of the requirements is to be a good Latterday Saint girl. I'm sure Nancy must be that." ptt slip away, and no one will know that I have been here. I'll say that I was ill and couldn't come. Nancy's thoughts raced on miserably. She was about to turn to go. She thought of Grandma Bailey. I cant stop now. Then someone came up to the door. It was Mr. Gale, one of the committee. He said, "We are about ready to begin. Come on in, Miss Bailey." The chattering and smiles of the girls ceased as Nancy entered. 'They looked at each other slightly confused. Nancy hoped that they would not know that she had heard. She tried to smile. Many other girls were coming in now, and attention was drawn from her. The girls all questioned each other. "What is your dress like? How will you wear your hair?" "There are some girls with style here all might. Are you afraid?" Nancy heard Jane Parker ask Isabel Blake. "Oh, I've won over cute girls before,' Nancy heard Isabel answer. Isabel had been queen on many occasions, Nancy knew. "It takes more than cuteness and style in this race," Jane Parker reminded Isabel. Isabel turned to Nancy now, "What will your talent performance be?" she asked. "Well, ''m not really sure." Nancy was ashamed and miserable. Why 225 did Isabel have to ask her? Soon she would have to tell the committee what it would be. Isabel looked at her "Don't know for sure!" claimed. Amazed. She exHREE of the committee were there. They were pleasant and treated the girls with equal consideration. 'They tried to make each one feel comfortably at ease. Mr. Brown, the head of the committee, asked questions and took all of the information down. Most of the girls answered his questions with confidence, but Nancy felt no sureness, and was still wondering what she would tell him. Jane Parker said that she would give an act from Shakespeare's King Lear. Mary Dally was going to sing a famous aria. Iris Layton would play a selection from Bach. On, and on, the girls all told what they would do; surely — confidently. Nancy knew that her turn was coming right after Isabel Blake's. She listened closely, and hoped that Isabel's performance would be in the music class. I couldn't bear to give a dramatic reading if Isabel gives one, she thought.