[Vol45 | April 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Margaret | Author: Elliott]
Margaret Ela J Peterson Appointed to General (Board Edith S. Elhott Member, Gencral Board of Relief Society Oe ELSA T. PETERSON MARGARET Elsa 'Thompson Peterson was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on February 19, 1958. She was born in Logan, Utah, and was reared in a home of culture and refinement. Her father was Alvin Hemingway Thompson, and her mother was Lillian Hyde Miner 'Thompson, a granddaughter of Orson Hyde. Elsa earned her A. B. Degree, with a major in history, at the University of California in Berkeley. Graduate work was done at Columbia University in New York City, gaining for her a Master's degree and, at the same time, a teacher's certificate from the Teacher's College division of Columbia. Along with Elsa's years of academic training, she studied the piano and is an excellent musician. Elsa Thompson married in the Logan 'Temple, William Overn PeterPage 220 son, Professor of Music and head of the piano department at the University of Utah. The talented couple moved to Salt Lake City. To them were born three sons: Clayne, Jared, and Grant. Each has distinguished himself in scholastic training and Church activities. Brother Peterson died very unexpectedly in 1951 and for the last seven years Sister Peterson has reared her boys alone. She assumed her responsibility and has never allowed defeat or discouragement to enter her home. Sister Peterson has had the advantage of extensive travel in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, Cuba, and Hawaii. Her training and experience have given her a great appreciation for her Heavenly Father's children. She has always been active in some phase of Church work. Her most recent position has been president of the Yale Second Ward Relief Society. Her excellence in that position is truly exemplary. Of her, her bishop, John S. Boyden, says: "Although Sister Peterson worked with efficient smoothness, the outstanding characteristic of her administration was evidenced by the love and compassion with which each errand of mercy was fulfilled or each message of joy conveyed." Sister Peterson not only has a strong testimony of the gospel of Jesus Chmnist, she lives it and will give understanding service and devotion to her new calling as a General Board member. Drene B.