CONTENTS
Portrait of Joseph Smith Frontispiece
The Book of Mormon. S. T. Brimhall-Foley 463
Portrait of Emma Hale Smith 464
Fiftieth Birthday of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association Amy Brown Lyman 465
Resignation of Editor Alice L. Reynolds 470
Editorial—Women on the Program of the National Education Association 471
Lady Aberdeen Receives Honorary Degree 472
A Last word 473
What it Means to be the Mother of Twins Emma A. Brough 475
Training the Health Habits of the Child Elna Miller 480
A Double Barreled Paper-Doll Education Elsie Talmage Brandley 483
Before the Baby Comes Ruth Partridge Richan 492
Hospital Babies Harold L. Snow 495
Adult Education Jean Cox 499
"The Universe Around Us" Lais V. Hales 501
Notes from the Field 504
Guide Lessons for November 509

VOL. XVII SEPTEMBER. 1930 = a JOSEPH SMITH Translator of the Book of Mormon, which was published one hundred years ago. Che Book of Mormon By S. T. Brimhall-Foley Flower from the hillside, Sweet September rose, Planted by prophets In soil that they chose. Silent for ages, At length to come forth And speak as by magic. Through tongues of the earth. Rose of Columbia No hand shall destroy, Plucked by an angel And read by a boy. Flower of a nation And light to a world, With fragrance unceasing Its bright leaves unfold. The plant of its fountain Shall ever increase, Be guarded by angels "Till earth rests in peace. Ay ——- EMMA HALE SMITH First President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints THE Relief Society Magazine Vor. XVII SEPTEMBER, 1930 No. 9 Fiftieth Birthday Of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association By Amy Brown Lyman, General Chairman of Committee PYINETEEN hundred thirty has been the most thrillingly interesting and remarkable year in the ' history of the Church, save the organization year, 1830. The spirit of the Centennial has permeated every gathering and has stirred the hearts and emotions of every Latter-day Saint, reaching a climax in the great Church conference held in April. The year chronicles another significant, historic event, which, though of minor importance, is of deep interest in Church circles and particularly in the women's groups —namely, the fiftieth birthday of the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association, which occurred on June 19. The forming of the Central or General Boards of these three auxiliaries should not be confused with the organization of the auxiliaries themselves, for they had all been functioning for a number of years previous to 1880—the Relief Society since March 17, 1842; the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association since November 28, 1869; and the Primary Association since August 11, 1878. Nor should the idea prevail that the local groups of each auxiliary had been entirely without mutual interest before 1880, for Sister Eliza R. Snow, who was appointed by President Brigham Young in 1866 to supervise the organization of Relief Societies, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations, and Primary Associations in the stakes and wards of the Church, had, with her assistants, traveled from one end of the Territory to the other in the interest of the work in its different phases. From 1866 to 1880 she had stood at the head of the women's work in the Church, and was known as the "president of the L. D. S. Women's organizations." But there had been no Central or General Boards to specialize in and direct the work of each organization un- 466 til President Taylor tgs action in the matter. Ie will be interesting for a moment to go back to the eventful occasion on June 19, 1880, when the organization of the Boards took place, and the foundation was laid for drawing the stakes more closely together in each field. It was a '"'Sisters' Conference,"-held in Salt Lake City, with President John Taylor and President Angus M. Cannon in attendance. It was the second day. The morning session was held in the Tabernacle, and the afternoon session in the Assembly Hall. The Tabernacle meeting was devoted largely to the work of the Relief Society and Primary, the middle seats of the great auditorium being filled with children. The organization of the Primary Board came first and was followed by that of the Relief Society. The afternoon session. Was held in the Assembly Hall, where the work of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association was featured, and it was here that the organization of this Board was effected. In taking this important step President Taylor was no doubt motivated by two major ideas: first, that a separation of the work of the three women's organizations into more definite and specialized fields would bring better results to the various phases of work and to the workers themselves; secondly, that through central boards the work in each field could be better standardized and