[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 11 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: Unknown]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	HE hath riches sufficient who hath
enough to be charitable.—Sir T. Brown.
	MY thoughts are my own possessions;
my acts may be limited by my country’s
laws —G. Foster.
	THE Scottish Labor Party, held a confer-
ence in London, Jan. 2, at which a resolu-
tion approving woman suffrage was adopted.
	IN Crittenden, Ky., a Republican county,
Miss Mina Wheeler has been elected School
Superintendent, defeating Geo. Perry,
Republican, by a majority of two votes.
	THE Committee on Dress of the National
Council of Women has lately been
strengthened by the addition of Miss Laura
Lee, of Massachusetts; Mrs. Bertha Mor-
ris Smith, of New York; and Mrs. Annie
L. Sloane, of California.
	ALEXANDER CAMPBELL said “We test
the religion, the morality, the prosperity,
the happiness, of every nation and people
by the question—how stands woman
amongst them?”
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET has been hold-
ing meetings in North Wales, where the
British Women’s Temperance Association
was practically unknown before. She has
had immense audiences.
	MISS ANTHONY, who addressed a Buffalo
audience 41 years ago on woman suffrage,
was a welcome speaker on the occasion of a 
grand suffrage rally Jan. 10th in Concert
Hall.
	THE Towoomba Chronicle of recent date
says that a deputation from the Woman’s
Suffrage Society of South Australia, visited
the Premier at Adelaide and he promised
that the government would do all in their
power to place on the Statute book a law
giving the franchise to women in such form
as the women desire it.
	GOV. WAITE, of Colorado, has promptly
appointed six women as notaries public.
They are Ada J. Coan, Ida Dannenfield
and Etta Cunningham, of Pueblo; Lillian
E. McNircher and Ellen C. White, of
Denver, and Minta C. White, of Del
Norte.
	THE Midwinter Fair Executive Gom-
mittee has made abundant provision for the
weary, and seats will be easily obtained.
Over a thousand benches will be placed
about the grounds, and nearly a thousand
chairs will be furnished for use in the
different buildings.
	A VIGOROUS effort was made in Waltham,
Mass., to elect a woman on the school
board. Mrs. Hudson secured the signa-
tures of fifty legal voters to nomination
papers for Miss Sarah Osborn, and Miss
Osborn received over 700 votes, although
she was not elected. The women will try
again next year, and hope to succeed.
	ENGLISH correspondence states that Mr.
Gladstone in consequence of the victory of
the woman suffrage supporters in relation
to the Parish Councils bill, is now compelled
to introduce a measure giving to married
women the vote now exercised by widows
and spinsters in all municipal elections,
parish, district and county Councils, boards
of guardians and all the machinery of local
government.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A CORRESPONDENT of the Methodist
Advocate says: “I am in full sympathy
with our church government in every
particular, except that it does not prohibit
our ministers using tobacco. Am I too
harsh? If so, it is because I have seen so
much of the evil thing at this large as-
sembly of ministers. I do believe the
wheels of our Zion are clogged with old
tobacco worms, smoke and embers. I wish
I had not mentioned this, but I cannot write
without speaking os it. I am so troubled
and ashamed of it among our preachers.
I feel that they are actually against us
mothers who are trying to teach our boys
to not use it.”
	MISS MARCIA P. BROWN, formerly prin-
cipal of the Maplewood School, in Malden,
Mass., came home last September, from a
five years’ absence in Brazil. She was ap-
pointed by the Brazilian Government to
examine the school exhibition at the
World’s Fair and to inquire thoroughly in-
to the workings of the school systems in
the United States, Germany, France and
Portugal. The purpose of the Brazilian
government is to institute a model system
of schools in Rio San Paula. Miss Brown
is a member of the State Board of educa-
tion of San Paula, the only lady that has
ever served on the committee. She is the
principal of the teachers in the training
school at San Paula, appointed by the
Government when Brazil became a republic
in 1889, and while she was interested in
missionary work. After two years she
gave the missionary work up, and accepted
the position at the training schools, which
she still fills.


