[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 11 | Title: THE TENDENCY OF THE AGE. | Author: Unknown]

THE TENDENCY OF THE AGE.
	THE peculiar condition of the country at
the present time, on account of the financial
depression is calculated to call attention to
the why’s and wherefore’s that have
brought about this state of things, and to
those who study the matter carefully some
remedy must necessarily be sought for, and
if possible found, or some method of adjust-
ment of labor and compensation, arrived at,
or some more economic way of living and
of expending the wealth of the world,
that there may be sufficient for all.
	Women should interest themselves in 
this great problem, for really they are the
most deeply interested party, the ones who
are most likely to suffer from the disarrange-
ment of conditions that throw people out of
employment, and force them to go hither
and thither for work, or to seek their
fortunes, by sea or by land poor or other-
wise.
	It seems remarkable at the present day
that women cannot see that it would be
well for them to have an intelligent opinion
on these subjects, and at least to find out
whether the womanly element diffused,
and fine discriminating sense of justice
possessed by the sex would not help solve
these difficult questions.
	To be sure, some do see the need of wo-
man’s help in affairs of state, but the
multitude are not converted to the idea of
political equality. And yet the crisis is
coming, the truth has already dawned upon
some who had been very indifferent previous
to this Columbian year, and it is an
acknowledged fact that the trend of the en-
tire Exposition work was in the direction of
equal rights for all. Women proved their
executive ability on the Board of Lady
Managers to the perfect satisfaction of all
concerned, and it is universally admitted
that women are more economical in ex-
penditures than men. That fact alone un-
der existing circumstances would count
greatly in their favor. Not only the
National Board of Lady Managers acquit-
ted themselves creditably in their manage-
ment, but the State Boards and Lady Com-
missioners and women engaged on Com-
mittees, and last though by no means least
the great Congress of women; its manage-
ment entirely under the direction of women.
That Woman’s Congress stands pre-eminent
among all the host of Congresses that came
after. It had no precedent to follow for
such an one had never been held, the world
had not seen its like, and is it not most
absurd to refuse to such women as Mrs.

[Column 2]
Palmer, Mrs. Henrotin, Miss Anthony,
Mrs. Sewall, Mrs. Avery and their 
colleagues the ballot, by means of which so
much might be accomplished towards mak-
ing women independent or at least equally
so with men in industrial pursuits? Yet 
these heroic and magnificent women are
powerless to carry a measure except through
their persuasive eloquence, or womanly
shrewdness and tact. We are not giving
any reasons why women should be political
equals, but simply calling attention to the
perfect indifference with which the majority 
of women view this matter. They simply
will not look into the subject, they have not
time, or its too much trouble, or its not the
proper thing, yet when some serious
difficulty presents itself, they are compelled
to come forward and “lend a hand’’ for the
time being, but they even then refuse in
many instances to think seriously and study
the cause though they see the effect.
	Men agree that there must be a radical
change of some sort, yet cannot predict in
what way it is to come; peacable methods
are best, and women are generally for peace,
that would be one grand element in public
affairs a peace policy.
	Whether women are prepared or not for
the responsibility of suffrage the tendency
of the times is in that direction, and the wise
and farseeing realize and can appreciate the
necessity for preparation. Every individual
woman who has the best interests of the
community in which she lives and of the
great common wealth of the Republic at
heart, should in some definite way inform
herself as to the laws and measures that
exist, first in her own locality and then in
the state and the United States. It is not
enough to be familiar with generalities,
most of us are very fond of ancient history,
but know very little of the history of the 
time in which we are actually living.
	The women of the State of New York
are carrying on a vigorous campaign in the
interests of the franchise and if perseverance
energy and pluck will win, then they will
surely achieve a signal triumph. A state
that has such illustrious women to lead the
hosts onward as Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony ought not to fear defeat. What a
glorious victory for women would be the
Empire State with woman suffrage in its
platform, and what a magnificent recom-
pense for the life long labors of the two 
distinguished heroines and chiefs in the 
suffrage cause, Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony would such a victory be; and cer-
tainly the imperative needs of the day and
the hour demand some potent power to im-
fuse into the body politic.
	The women of Utah who exercised the
right of franchise for so long a period of
time must surely be better informed in re-
gard to its advantages than those who never
have had the practical experience in its use
and methods. One would think having
had the educational benefit of the ballot
such women should be able to speak advis-
edly on the subject, and persuade the timid,
doubting class and convince the thoughtless
and indifferent ones of the real need of the
ballot for women that all may join together
in one great phalanx to secure equal rights
and privileges for all classes of citizens ir-
respective of sex. That woman may no
longer be classed with idiots, lunatics and
criminals in the body politic.


[Column 1]
