[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | January | Issue: 11 | Title: NEW ENGLAND THANKSGIVING. | Author: Unknown]

NEW ENGLAND THANKSGIVING.
	THE early settlers of New England were
devotedly religious and acknowledged the
hand of Providence in everything that
transpired and were especially grateful in
being saved from starvation in the wilder-
ness and thankful for the harvest of grain
that crowned their labors during the first
years of their sojourn in the new country. 
It was as early as 1633 that they issued an
official appointment for a day of Thanks-
giving, after the harvest which was always
in November falling upon different dates
but always on Thursday, the idea suggest-
ting itself from the Hebrew feast of
tabernacles, feast of ingathering at the end
of the year.
	The Dutch governors too sometimes ap-
pointed Thansgiving—at any rate it grew
to be a national day during the Revolution
and was annually recommended by Con-
gress, but when peace was proclaimed it
became only a matter of taste, except in
New England where it has always been
rigidly observed. During the civil war
Abraham Lincoln issued a national
proclamation of the annual thanksgiving
and since that time the custom has prevailed
always falling on the last Thursday in
November.
	In my childhood thanksgiving was the
great day of the closing year and we were
not allowed to celebrate Christmas, lest we
should be thought ’Piscopals or Church of
England people or worst of all Roman
Catholics. One thing in which it differed
from Christmas was the giving of presents,
it was also more strictly religious. Every-
thing possible was done beforehand, and
we always went to meeting on that day as
much as though it were Sunday, and the
singers were prepared by careful practice
with anthems of praise and the sermons
were admonitions to the people to be
thankful to God. But usually the people
went from the meeting house to the places
of public amusement or the loaded dinner
tables where feasting and visiting inter-
mingling of relatives and friends, songs,
speeches, dancing and mirth occupied the
remainder of the day, games of all kinds by
the children in which often the older ones
joined were also customary, and the even-
ings were spent socially, nuts, apples,
molasses candy (or in my day maple sugar
candy was more common) helped to while
away the time, pop corn too was one of the
luxuries—and the Thanksgiving dinner
was never complete without roast turkey
and pig, baked beans, mince and pumpkin pie,
and plum pudding, made with rice or
Boston crackers and other almost innumera-
ble varieties of nuts, fruits vegetables etc.
	Outdoor games by the boys were also in-
dulged in, some of them not of a very 

[Column 2]
elevating character. Family parties were
the most enjoyable, the married daughters
and sons, coming home with their little
ones to join the family circle, where, the
reminiscences of the past were recalled,
and the old songs familiar to childhood
sung again, often one remembering only a
verse, or a line but all joining in a sort of
medley; the new babies came home at
thanksgiving time to grandma and grandpa
and sometimes four generations would be
present at these happy reunions. Visiting
New England only a few years ago I
found that this custom of primitive
times was still observed and with far more
favor among the Puritanical families
than Christmas, for though they are be-
coming more and more English in manner,
if you go into the villages especially, the
plain country people will tell you without
the least reservation, that keeping
Christmas with all sorts of jolly festivities
is Roman Catholic, and they hate their
ways and all their forms and ceremonies.
But we do not have too many holidays or
too much pleasure with Christmas, Thanks-
giving, 4th of July, New Year’s and all
the other national days Washington’s
birthday and all our own birthdays, and
the 24th, of July our Pioneer Day.
