[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN. | Author: ELLIS R. SHIPP,]

			HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C AND REAPERS SOCIAL.
ON WEDNESDAY FEBUARY 23, 1910.
	Through mutual agreement the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club and the Reapers Social
met in the EXPONENT Office, Bishop’s
Building, to do honor to our founder and
organizer, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Pres-
dent Mrs. Hattie C. Jensen, presiding.
Elder George Q. Morris was called upon to
open the meeting with prayer. The secre-
tary then called the roll, showing a good at-
tendance of officers and members.
	Master Byron Jensen sang an appropriate
selectfon with violin obligato by Lucile
Critchlow.
	The most touching tribute of the evening
was given by Annie Wells Cannon—“Emm-
eline B. Wells as a Mother”-her tenderness,
her sympathy and love, and withal, her
great wisdom in directing the youthful
minds of her children, were so beautifully
depicted by the speaker that hearts throbbed
audibly and eyes were moistened. The for-
titude and courage of that mother; no ele-
ment of fear ever came to this ofttimes lone-

[Column 2]
ly household through the sublime faith and
courage of the mother; and thus were the
children taught by precept and example, to
follow in her illustrious footsteps.
	Miss Bessie Smith then sang in a very
pleasing manner “The Songs my Mother
Sang.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp then read an article en-
titled “As an Editor” expressive of heartfelt
appreciation of our poet-editor.
	Miss Vera Jensen then sang very sweetly,
“Bonnie Sweet Bessie.”
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder in her effort to show
the immortal powers of “The Writer,” nice-
ly demonstrated her own facile ability as a
penwoman.
	In behalf of the two clubs, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp presented our honorary president with
a silken gown as a token of loving esteem
of her co-workers. Mrs. Wells responded in
her sweet characteristic way, her words of
loving appreciation reaching all hearts.
	Delicious refreshments were served along
with pleasant interchange of thought and
soul to soul communion of life-long friends.
Then followed a musical program and inter-
esting speechmaking.
	An original song by Prest. Hattie C. Jen-
sen was beautifully rendered by a special
quartette: Samuel Winters, Harold Bar-
clough, Mrs. Sarah Wood and Vera Jen-
sen.
	Don Carlos Wood gave several humorous
recitations which were highly appreciated.
Followed by a piano duet by Mrs. Clara
Jensen and daughter.
	The Ladies Quartette, composed of Anna
Ericson, Natalie Thomas, Leah Arnold and
Marie Thomas, sang very sweetly.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President of the
Relief Society, expressed her good will for
Sister Wells, and gave reminiscences of
early Missouri pioneer days.
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox told in fitting words
how much we all realize what this little wo-
man has done for us in stimulating literary
effort and inspiring us to bring out all the
possibilities of our natures.
	She had often imagined Sister Wells as a
young girl and believed she too loved to
make herself look beautiful as other girls
do. The evening’s entertainment closed
with cordial handshakes and many, many
loving wishes for long life and happiness to
our honored and revered leader, Emmeline
B Wells.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP,
				Secretary U. W. P. C.


[Column 1]
