[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: Notes and News | Author: Unknown]

		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mr. Frank Sanborn writes in his Boston
letter to the Springfield Republican:
	Mrs. Howe continues her activities at the
women’s club and elsewhere, and has recom-
mended to her club mates to take up a
study of the races mingling in our national
population with particular reference to the
powerful Irish element. In that connection
she mentions that in 1843 she accompanied
Dr. Howe on a visit to Ireland, and, against
the adv ce of their London friends, went in
Dublin to hear O’Connell in one of his great
repeal speeches. It was interesting to hear
her and one of her daughters sing some of
the old English comic songs, one after the
other; much as I heard Mrs. Gerrit Smith
and her daughter, about 1870, sing at
Clarke’s Island, in Plymouth harbor, the
ballad of Lockhart, once in great favor as
a song, “The Bridal of Andalla.”

[Column 2]
	Mme. Marguarite Durand, editor of a
daily newspapor, and a leader of the suffrage
movement in France, intends to present
herself at the election in May as a candi-
date for the Chamber of Deputies. Women
are not legally eligible, but Mme. Durand
will run to call attention to the discrimina-
tion against her sex, and to the necessity of
giving women the franchise.
	Mrs. J. Scott Anderson, principal of the
Swarthmore School and Kindergarten for
the Deaf, has been appointed to represent
four different parties at the International
Congress on home Education, to be held in
Brussels, August 21-25. Governor Stuart
has delegated her to represent the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania. She will attend
also as the delegate of the American Acad-
emy of Social and Political Science, the
Philadelphia League of Home and School
Associations, and the Woman’s Club of
Swarthmore. Both Mr. and Mrs. Anderson
are ardent suffragists.—Ex.
	Miss Susan Lawrence and Miss Nettie
Alder have just been elected to the London
County Council where they will legislate
for more people than make up the whole
population of Massachusetts. Twenty-one
years ago Miss Jane Cobden (now the wife
of T. Fisher Unwin) and Lady Margaret
Sandhurst were elected to the Council, but
the courts held that women were not eligible.
During their short experience on the Coun-
cil, pending the decision of the court, Miss
Cobden and Lady Sandhurst rendered such
valuable service that the London County
Council has been petitioning Parliament
ever since to make women eligible. After
twenty years’ delay, the last Parliament got
around to doing so, and did it handsomely,
with only 15 dissenting votes out of 670
members of the House of Commons.—Ex.
	Miss Evangeline E. Whitney, who was in
charge of the recreation centres of the New
York public schools, has just died. The
Journal of Education describes her as “the
brilliant pioneer worker in this great field of
public school endeavor.” It adds: “This
phase of public school effort is as distinct a
blessing to the world as the discovery of the
causes of yellow fever and tuberculosis, and
a memorial should be raised in honor of the
woman who led in this movement in the
greatest of American cities.”
	Mrs. Winifred Harper Cooley, daughter of
Mrs. Ida Harper, is National Secretary of
the Associated Clubs of Domestic Science.
As a result of her investigation she has
reached the conclusion that a law to make
the cold storage of food products for longer
than six months illegal would go far toward
solving the evil of high prices.
	Lady St. Helier (formerly Lady Jeune),
has been chosen an alderman.
	Miss Mary Johnston coutributes to the
Atlantic Monthly an admirable article in
favor of votes for women, to offset Mrs.
Margaret Deland’s recent contribution on
the other side.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin and Dr. Anna
Dwyer, president of the medical staff of
Mary Thompson Hospital, have been ap-
pointed by Mayor Busse on the commission
of thirty members to investigate vice con-
ditions in Chicago. The powers of the com-
mission are limited to the securing of infor-
mation and the making of a report with
recommendations.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
