[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Visiting Singley]

WHERE THERE'S A WILL 313 VISITING TEACHING BY DOG TEAM AT FAIRBANKS, ALASKA Front row, left to Tight: Esther Woodcox: Minnie Carroll Eleanor C. Errett of Lord Shaftsbury: have been ag tremendous force in one kind Welding together
THE VISITING TEACHER
Lottie Hammer Singley 4 golden voice  sing my Song to men; d a silver tongue Or wield a clever pen. But I fee] deeply others' woe s, My soul is gay and bright; So I will comfort, bless, and cheer To make their burdens light, Ethel Colton Smith, New Member of the General Board Reka H. Cummings Former President, Highland Stake Relief Society Ethel Colton Smith was named a member of the General Board, July 2, 1947. In calling her to this position, the General Presidency of Relief Society has recognized a worker who possesses an unusual combination of characteristics which qualify her well and which will enable her to render valuable service to the women of the Church. She has a keen mind and is efficient and direct in her approach to anything she undertakes. She is painstaking and makes a work of art out of whatever she does be it sewing a patch on a small boy's overall, wrapping a Christmas package, preparing a meal, or a project of greater proportions and importance.
With all her efficiency and artistry, she ls, above all, a lover of her fellow men.
Some of us are religious in heart; she is religious in deed. She is generous, tolerant, and sympathetic, and the rendering of concrete service to neighbors, friends, and family has occupied her life. The virtues of this new General Board member have had steady growth and nurture throughout her life.
When she was ten years of age her mother died and she, her sister, and her brother went to live with their grandparents, Sterling Driggs Colton and Nancy Wilkins Colton.
Their father died two years later and they remained in the home of these good people who brought them up Page 514 and Colton Smith was ETHEL COLTON SMITH as their own children.
Ethel assumed a large part of the responsibility for her younger sister's care. It is remembered in the family how she taught this little sister to care for her clothes, to be neat and clean; and how she worked and planned and sacrificed to give her opportunities.
From her stalwart and honest grandfather, Ethel learned the value of time and the importance of being prompt and dependable. Her grand- ETHEL COLTON SMITH mother was a Relief Society stake president in Uintah Stake for many years and was beloved by all who knew her for her administrations to the sick, for her comforting and encouraging words in time of trouble, and for her generosity in time of need.
Early in her life Ethel saw compassionate service, which is a vital part of the Relief Society plan, rendered in its fullest measure, and learned of the joy that comes from self-sacrifice in service to others. She has a deep love for Relief Society and is a firm believer in its divine origin and purpose. Sister Smith was born in Whiterocks, Uintah County, Utah. Her parents were Sterling LeRoy Colton and Lula Camp Colton. She received her education in the public schools and the Uintah Academy at Vernal, Utah, and at the Latter-day Saints College, Salt Lake City. She was married in the Salt Lake Temple to Elwin F. Smith, who is the appraiser for Zion's Savings Bank and Trust Company.
They have a nine-year-old son, Robert Colton Smith. Sister Smith is an experienced business secretary and has been an active worker in the P. T. A. And the Red Cross organizations. She has always been active in the Church, 515 having taught in Primary, Sunday School, and M. I. A. Organizations. For five and a half years she was a member of the Highland Stake Relief Society board, acting as secretary-treasurer for four and a half years of that time.
Working closely with Ethel during those years, I learned to know her well and to appreciate her ability. Her spirit of enthusiasm and co-operation made it a joy to work with her; and to give her an assignment was to know that it would be completed promptly and well, with every detail carefully worked out. Her knowledge of the fundamental rules and policies of the Relief Society organization, and her helpful suggestions for putting them into practice were invaluable in carrying out the program in Highland Stake. She has rendered efficient, effective service to the Society and to the women with whom she worked and associated.
They wish her joy and success in her new assignment. In this calling she will continue to serve well.
Whatever she is given to do she will do with purpose and directness, tempered with humility, wisdom, and good judgment. And, permeating all her efforts, will be a spirit of tolerance, love, and compassion for her fellow men. ERRATUM Attention is called to a mistake in the July 1947 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, page 351, in which the name of Sister David O. McKay is given as Jennette Evans McKay.