[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]
Hawaiian  Mission  show  special  inter- 
est in  the  visiting  teaching  program. 
This  work  is  gaining  impetus  here 
and  the  increased  attendance  at  reg- 
ular Relief  Society  meetings  is  in 
large  measure  attributed  to  the  in- 
creased visiting  teaching  activities. 
Returning  to  Oahu  from  the  Is- 
land of  Maui,  we  had  a  short,  but 
delightful  stop  at  the  Island  of  Mol- 
okai  where  we  had  the  privilege  of 
meeting  a  number  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety sisters,  although  time  did  not 
permit  us  to  conduct  a  meeting  with 
them. 
TPON  returning  to  Honolulu,  we 
were  privileged,  upon  invitation 
of  President  and  Sister  Melvyn 
Weenig,  to  meet  with  the  Relief  So- 
ciety sisters  of  the  Central  Pacific 
Mission.  Most  of  the  members  are 
young  Japanese  women  full  of  en- 
thusiasm for  the  work  of  the  So- 
ciety, with  strong  testimonies  of  the 
truth  of  the  gospel,  and  with  many 
capabilities.  Although  we  had  met 
a  number  of  the  sisters  from  the 
Central  Pacific  Mission  at  meetings 
held  for  the  Oahu  Stake,  and  at 
meetings  held  for  the  sisters  of  the 
Hawaiian  Mission,  we  were  delight- 
ed to  hold  a  special  conference  ses- 
sion for  this  group.  This  session 
was  held  on  Fast  Sunday  morning  at

A  VISIT  TO  THE  HAWAIIAN  ISLANDS 
523 
which  excellent  talks  were  given  by 
Relief  Society  sisters.  These  talks 
revealed  the  fine  insight  of  these 
young  Japanese  women  into  the 
great  purposes  of  Relief  Society,  as 
well  as  their  deep  appreciation  for 
all  that  the  organization  offers  them. 
The  regular  Fast  Day  service 
which  followed  the  Relief  Society 
conference  was  a  rich,  spiritual  ex- 
perience. Missionaries  and  Latter- 
day  Saint  servicemen  in  attendance 
bore  strong  testimonies  of  the  truth 
of  the  restored  gospel.  I  could  not 
help  but  feel  how  comforted    the 
mothers  of  these  young  people 
would  be  could  they  have  heard 
them  bear  their  testimonies  that  day. 
A  young  Japanese  missionary  girl  re- 
ceived her  honorable  release  from 
missionary  service.  Her  Buddhist 
parents  were  on  the  stand  and,  al- 
though they  had  not  accepted  the 
belief  to  which  she  was  giving  her 
full  devotion,  their  love  for  her  and 
their  pride  in  her  work  were  plainly 
evident.  The  testimonies  of  the 
members  of  the  mission  were  im- 
pressive, showing  the  deep  convic- 
tion of  the  truth  of  the  gospel  in  the 
OAHU  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  BOARD  ENTERTAINS  GENERAL  BOARD 
MEMBERS  AT  HONOLULU,  May  6,  1947 
Front  row  seated,  left  to  right:  President  Belle  S.  Spafford;  Sai  Lang  Aid,  First 
Counselor,  Oahu  Stake  Relief  Society;  Mary  Tyau,  President  Oahu  Stake  Relief  Society; 
Mary  Taylor,  Second  Counselor,  Oahu  Stake  Relief  Society;  Velma  N.  Simonsen,  mem- 
ber of  the  General  Board. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Helen  Ellis;  Kamaile  Kauhini;  Emma  Mossman;  Rachel 
Wakefield;  Georgia  H.  Weenig,  President,  Central  Pacific  Mission  Relief  Society;  Irene 
K.  Peters;  Rose  Smith;  Romania  Hyde  Woolley,  wife  of  Ralph  E.  Woolley,  Presi- 
dent, Oahu  Stake;  Julia  Doyle.

524  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST  1947 
hearts  of  these  people.    One  could  The  Latter-day  Saint  people  of  the 
not  visit  with  the  saints  of  the  Cen-  Hawaiian  Islands    are    looking  for- 
tral  Pacific  Mission  without  realiz-  ward    to    observing    in    July    the 
ing  that  this  small  but  growing  mis-  Centennial    of    the   arrival   of   the 
sion  is  full  of  great  promise.  Mormon  pioneers  in  the  Salt  Lake 
A  social  function  which  we  shall  Valley.    The  gospel  is  very  dear  to 
long  remember  was  the  "sukiyaki"  these  people.  Even  though  they  live 
dinner  served  at  the  mission  home  on  these  faraway  islands,  the  story 
by  the  sisters  of  the  Central  Pacific  of  the  westward  trek  of  the  pioneers 
Mission.    A  large  group  was  in  at-  and  the  establishment  of   Church 
tendance  including  missionaries  and  headquarters  in  the  Valley  of    the 
many  members  of  the  Oahu  Stake.  Great  Salt  Lake  is  the  history  of  their 
Gay  in  Japanese  kimonos  and  obis,  brothers  and  sisters  who  pioneered 
with  hibiscus  in  our  hair,  we  sat  on  that  the  Church   which  they  love 
cushions  on  the  floor  at  low  tables  might  become  mighty  in  the  midst 
and  were  served  delicious  Japanese  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  and  expand 
food  which  we  saw  cooked  on  the  its  borders  to  the  far  corners  of  the 
iron  kettles  before  us.  earth;  that  this  gospel  which  was 
We  enjoyed  many  delightful  so-  taken  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands  near- 
cial  functions  during  our  visit.  Space  ly  one  hundred  years  ago  might  be 
does  not  allow  us  to  mention  all.  carried  to  the  honest  in  heart  every- 
However,  a  report  of  our  trip  would  where;  that  the  lives  of  people  might 
be  incomplete  without  reference  to  be  sweet  and  pure;  that  they  shall 
the  luau,  the  Hawaiian  feast,  given  hunger  not,  neither  thirst, 
by  the  Oahu  Stake  Board  at  the  This  trip  to  the  Islands  has  further 
home  of  Counselor  Mary  Taylor,  demonstrated  to  me  the  strength 
which  gave  us  opportunity  to  taste  of  Relief  Society  leadership  and 
foods  prepared  as  only  the  Hawaiians  the  devotion  of  Relief  Society  worn- 
can  prepare  them,  and  to  wear  our  en  to  the  great  work  of  the  So- 
gorgeous  silk  holokus.  Two  of  these  ciety;  my  testimony  of  the  divine  in- 
lovely  gowns,  made  by  Relief  Society  spiration  which  directed  the  Proph- 
sisters  from  patterns  drafted  by  them  et  Joseph  Smith  when  he  founded 
were  presented  to  us.  We  shall  this  Society  has  been  strengthened, 
always  prize  these  gowns  because  and  my  knowledge  of  the  truth  of 
they  represent  the  workmanship  and  the  restored  gospel  has  been  made 
love  of  our  sisters  of  Oahu.  more  sure. 
EVENING 
Oliver  K.  Meservy 
When,  from  the  crowding  work  of  day, 
At  twilight  I  am  free, 
I  love  to  walk  among  the  trees 
And  with  my  Maker  be. 
And  then  my  soul,  in  gratitude, 
Offers  up  a  prayer; 
In  the  glory  of  the  woodland, 
I  feel  God's  presence  there.

'THE  PLACE" 
Lizabeth  Wall 
They  stood  for  a  long  time,  watching  and  wondering, 
These  strange,  proud  people  in  a  strange,  new  land, 
These  gentle,  kindly  people,  plodding  and  pondering, 
Men  and  women,  weary,  waiting,  hand  in  hand. 
(The  heat  waves  shimmered 
On  the  valley  floor, 
And  a  lake  shone  silver 
On  a  far,  gold  shore  .  . . . ) 
They  stood  for  a  long  time.    Here  was  the  ending, 
Here  the  beginning  of  a  hard-fought  dream; 
And  the  valley  held  them  in  a  subtle  blending 
Of  sagebrush  and  aspen  and  wind-song  and  stream. 
(The  heat  waves  shimmered 
And  a  city  grew 
Up  from  the  desert 
And  into  the  blue  .  . . .) 
Under  their  feet  were  the  hot  sands,  sifting, 
And  over  their  heads  were  the  wild,  bright  skies, 
But  they  saw  a  white  city  with  tall  spires  lifting, 
And  they  walked  toward  it,  singing,  with  glory  in  their  eyes! 
Page  525

Pioneer  Stories  and  Incidents 
OXEN  ON  THE  PLAINS 
President  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
[This  is  the  eleventh  and  final  story  in  a  series  of  true  pioneer  incidents  published 
by  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  in  honor  of  the  1947  Utah  Centennial  celebra- 
tion.— Ed.] 
IN  
any  consideration  of  the  con- 
quest and  settlement  of  the 
West,  the  part  played  by  oxen- 
symbol  of  pioneer  transportation- 
should  not  be  overlooked.  And  in 
paying  tribute  to  the  stalwart  men 
and  women  who  took  part  in  this 
great  adventure,  tribute  should  be 
paid,  also,  to  the  gentle,  faithful 
oxen,  which  contributed  so  much  to 
the  success  of  the  undertaking. 
The  pioneers  and  pathfinders  of 
early  days  fully  appreciated  the  value 
of  oxen,  and  gave  these  animals  full 
credit  for  the  great  contribution  they 
made  in  the  winning  of  the  West. 
Through  early  experience,  the  plains- 
men learned  that,  for  all  general  pur- 
poses, oxen  were  much  better  fitted 
for  the  rough  travel  of  the  plains 
than  horses— better  fitted  for  pull- 
ing heavy  loads  through  mud  and 
sand,  and  for  fording  streams,  and 
for  clearing  and  breaking  up  the 
vast  stretches  of  virgin  prairie  land. 
Other  advantages  were  that  oxen 
could  be  purchased  cheaper  than 
horses  and  could  be  cared  for  at  less 
expense,  theii  food  consisting  chief- 
ly of  grass,  either  green  or  dried, 
while  horses  and  mules  had  to  be 
grain-fed  en  route;  that  oxen  re- 
quired no  harnesses,  merelv  wooden 
yokes;  and,  in  addition,  that  their 
flesh  in  emergency  or  shortage  could 
be  used  for  food.    Then,  again,  oxen 
Page  526 
could  not  be  run  off  by  the  Indians 
at  night  as  easily  as  could  horses. 
Pioneer  John  Brown,  who  served 
as  emigration  agent  for  the  Church 
for  a  number  of  years,  and  who  re- 
cruited and  trained  hundreds  of 
oxen,  was  typical  of  those  who  ap- 
preciated the  faithful,  obedient,  and 
willing  oxen.  He  seemed  to  under- 
stand them  and  to  have  real  affec- 
tion for  them.  He  always  insisted 
that  in  breaking  oxen  to  the  yoke, 
great  care  should  be  taken  that  they 
be  not  broken  in  spirit,  also.  He 
used  to  tell  how,  on  many  occasions 
when  driving  oxen  and  sleeping  in 
the  open,  drivers  would  lie  down  be- 
side their  oxen  and  snuggle  up  to 
their  backs  to  keep  warm. 
In  his  journal,  written  during  the 
summer  of  1862,  he  tells  of  his  ex- 
perience as  one  of  the  Church  agents 
in  helping  to  prepare  companies  for 
the  journey  across  the  plains.  He 
first  went  to  Chicago  and  purchased 
wagons  for  the  trip,  then  had  them 
shipped  to  Florence,  Nebraska, 
which  was  the  outfitting  place.  He 
then  spent  several  months  recruiting 
144  yoke  of  oxen  in  Illinois,  Mis- 
souri, and  Iowa,  and  driving  them 
to  Florence,  where  they  were 
trained,  or  broken  to  the  voke. 
Among  his  business  entries  is  the 
following,   which    gives   an   idea   of
