[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Where Chapter]
Courtesy, W. Atlee Burpee GLADIOLI Where There's a Will
VISITING TEACHERS HOW THEY TRAVELED
Donna Durrant Sorensen Former Second Counselor, General Board of Relief Society WHEN the "Necessity Committee" of sixteen members was formed in Nauvoo, in 1843, to do friendly visiting, this promise was made to them: "The spirit of the Lord will help you in it," and this spirit, through the years since, has moved them to tremendous physical effort under many different conditions. How visiting teachers have traveled in paying a monthly visit to the Latter-day Saint families in the Church recounts like a saga, and one is amazed at the indomitable woman-will displayed in situations which taxed her ingenuity, but which left her undaunted in the face of the "call." Those women of early days, chosen to represent the Society as a "'contact arm," were-but the first of hundreds of thousands of women whose devotion to duty, singleness of purpose, and unremitting toil have led and continue to lead them to travel many thousands of miles through the dust and heat of summer, the cold and snow of winters, along country roads and to the topmost floors of large apartment houses, all in the line of duty. In Nauvoo the women usually walked from one home to another to gather their reports on the condition of the saints, and, since that time, walking has undoubtedly been the most usual mode of travel in doing visiting teaching. Relief Society women 'in pairs have been assigned to visit each home. A visiting teacher for forty-eight years in one of the southern Utah settlements recalls that she had the same district and the same companion for ten years of that time, and they walked to do their teaching: We were having our families then, so often had to take our babies with us. As it would take us the most of a day, we were often treated to homemade root beer in the summer, and in the winter the sisters would ask us in to the fire to warm up.... There were no pavements in those days, and we would have to push the baby buggy through the mud. We would often lose our rubbers and really have a hard time to cross the streets. In the summer it was hot and dusty, but, hot or cold, dust or mud, and no matter how busy we were, we always planned to do our teaching on time. And the Lord blessed us in our work. Until 1943, the visiting teachers accepted contributions for charitable purposes, and one early-day teacher recounts: My partner and I would receive contributions of food, soap, clothing, carpet rags, meat, butter, dried fruits, wild berries, etc. We always carried a basket and a sack. The eggs and perishable produce would be put in the basket and the rest in the sack. Sometimes we would receive so many things that we would have to leave them at the homes and go back the next day. If we came into a home where help was needed, we would often stop on our way to help care for the sick, or give a tired mother a helping hand, or take home Page 507
Photograph by L. C. Thorne.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1947 VISITING TEACHING IN A BUGGY Sarah Bartlett Bingham and Evelyn B.
Richardson of Vernal, Utah, ready for a trip in a buggy. The unfinished knitting of much-needed stockings. Sometimes, we would return in the evening and sit up with the sick and at Christmas time we would see that each family had something special for their holiday cheer.
