[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Lesson | Title: Notes From the Field: Activities for Visiting Teachers and Special Centennial Programs General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]
VISITING  TEACHING  IN  A  SLEIGH 
Lovell  West  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake,  Wyoming 
Seated  front  row,  left  to  right:  Sofe  Johnson;  Clara  Adams,  the  oldest  visiting  teach- 
er in  the  ward;  Rhoda  Harrison;  R.  Fred  Harrison. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Delia  Tippets;  Elma  Mickelson;  Enid  Bassett  (child);  Lea 
Bassett;  Eva  Emmett. 
Photograph,  courtesy  Verna  Murphy 
HAWAIIAN  RELIEF  SOCIETY  VISITING  TEACHERS 
MAKING  A  CALL 
Left  to  right:    Sister  Ohia  Ferriera  (in  chair);  visiting  teachers,  Makaole  Kaleo  and 
Anna  Mahi.

WHERE  THERE'S  A  WILL 
513 
Photograph,  Courtesy  Lenora  K.  Bringhurst 
DRESSED  READY  FOR  VISITING  TEACHING  BY  DOG  TEAM 
AT  FAIRBANKS,  ALASKA 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Esther  Woodcox;  Minnie  Carroll;  Thelma  V.  Walker; 
Eleanor  C.  Berrett. 
Second  row,  left  to  right:  Florence  Lauritzen;  Sharon  Berrett;  Arva  Carroll;  Rebecca 
Arend;  Mae  Oldroyd;  Mike  Agbaba,  whose  dog  team  won  the  first  prize  at  Fairbanks 
Winter  Carnival  in  1946. 
exchange  the  push  of  circumstances 
for  the  pull  of  a  strong  worthwhile 
purpose,  the  visiting  teachers  have 
learned  the  love  of  sisterhood,  and 
have  been  a  tremendous  force  in 
welding  together  the  individual 
members  of  Relief  Society  into  a 
united  whole,  and  with  a  consequent 
building  of  the  kingdom.  Indeed,  we 
might  say  each  teacher  would  concur 
with  the  words  of  Lord  Shaftsbury: 
During  a  long  life  I  have  found  that  not 
one  kind  word  ever  spoken,  not  one  kind 
deed  ever  done,  but  sooner  or  later  returns 
to  bless  the  giver  and  becomes  a  chain 
binding  men  with  golden  bands  to  the 
throne  of  God. 
THE  VISITING  TEACHER 
Lottie  Hammer  Singley 
I  do  not  have  a  golden  voice 
To  sing  my  song  to  men; 
I  do  not  have  a  silver  tongue 
Nor  wield  a  clever  pen. 
But  I  feel  deeply  others'  woes, 
My  soul  is  gay  and  bright; 
So  I  will  comfort,  bless,  and  cheer 
To  make  their  burdens  light.

Ethel  Colton  Smith,  New  Member 
of  the  General  Board 
Reka  H.  Cummings 
Former  President,  Highland  Stake  Relief  Society 
ETHEL  Colton  Smith  was 
named  a  member  of  the  Gen- 
eral Board,  July  2,  1947.  In 
calling  her  to  this  position,  the  Gen- 
eral Presidency  of  Relief  Society  has 
recognized  a  worker  who  possesses 
an  unusual  combination  of  character- 
istics which  qualify  her  well  and 
which  will  enable  her  to  render  val- 
uable service  to  the  women  of  the 
Church.  She  has  a  keen  mind  and  is 
efficient  and  direct  in  her  approach 
to  anything  she  undertakes.  She  is 
painstaking  and  makes  a  work  of  art 
out  of  whatever  she  does— be  it  sew- 
ing a  patch  on  a  small  boy's  overall, 
wrapping  a  Christmas  package,  pre- 
paring a  meal,  or  a  project  of  greater 
proportions  and  importance.  With 
all  her  efficiency  and  artistry,  she  is, 
above  all,  a  lover  of  her  fellow  men. 
Some  of  us  are  religious  in  heart; 
she  is  religious  in  deed.  She  is  gener- 
ous, tolerant,  and  sympathetic;  and 
the  rendering  of  concrete  service  to 
neighbors,  friends,  and  family  has 
occupied  her  life. 
Tire  virtues  of  this  new  General 
Board  member  have  had  steady 
growth  and  nurture  throughout  her 
life.  When  she  was  ten  years  of  age 
her  mother  died  and  she,  her  sister, 
and  her  brother  went  to  live  with 
their  grandparents,  Sterling  Driggs 
Colton  and  Nancy  Wilkins  Colton. 
Their  father  died  two  years  later  and 
they  remained  in  the  home  of  these 
good  people  who  brought  them  up 
Page  514 
ETHEL  COLTON  SMITH 
as  their  own  children.  Ethel  assumed 
a  large  part  of  the  responsibility  for 
her  younger  sister's  care.  It  is  re- 
membered in  the  family  how  she 
taught  this  little  sister  to  care  for  her 
clothes,  to  be  neat  and  clean;  and 
how  she  worked  and  planned  and 
sacrificed  to  give  her  opportunities. 
From  her  stalwart  and  honest  grand- 
father, Ethel  learned  the  value  of 
time  and  the  importance  of  being 
prompt  and  dependable.  Her  grand-

ETHEL  COLTON  SMITH  515 
mother  was  a  Relief  Society  stake  having  taught  in   Primary,   Sunday 
president  in  Uintah  Stake  for  many  School,    and  M.I.A.   organizations, 
years  and  was  beloved  by  all  who  For  five  and  a  half  years  she  was  a 
knew  her  for  her  administrations  to  member  of  the  Highland  Stake  Re- 
the  sick,  for  her  comforting  and  en-  lief  Society  board,  acting  as  secre- 
couraging  words  in  time  of  trouble,  tary-treasurer  for  four  and  a  half  years 
and  for  her  generosity  in  time    of  of  that  time.  Working  closely  with 
need.     Early  in  her  life  Ethel  saw  Ethel  during  those  years,  I  learned 
compassionate  service,  which  is    a  to  know  her  well  and  to  appreciate 
vital  part  of  the  Relief  Society  plan,  her  ability.   Her  spirit  of  enthusiasm 
rendered  in  its  fullest  measure,  and  and  co-operation  made  it  a  joy  to 
learned  of  the  joy  that  comes  from  work  with  her;  and  to  give  her  an 
self-sacrifice  in  service  to  others.  She  assignment  was  to    know    that    it 
has  a  deep  love  for  Relief  Society  and  would  be  completed  promptly  and 
is  a  firm  believer  in  its  divine  origin  well,    with    every    detail    carefully 
and  purpose.  worked  out.    Her  knowledge  of  the 
Sister  Smith  was  born  in  White-  fundamental  rules  and  policies  of  the 
rocks,  Uintah  County,  Utah.     Her  Rehef  Society  organization,  and  her 
parents  were  Sterling  LeRoy  Colton  helpful  suggestions  for  putting  them 
and   Lula    Camp   Colton.   She  re-  into  practice  were  invaluable  m  car- 
ceived  her  education  in  the  public  rying  out  the  program  in  Highland 
schools  and  the  Uintah  Academy  at  Stake-    she  has  rendered  efficient, 
Vernal,  Utah,  and  at  the  Latter-day  effective  service  to  the  Society  and 
Saints  College,  Salt  Lake  City.  She  to    the    women    Wlth    whom    sh? 
was  married  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  worked  and  associated.    They  wish 
to  Elwin  F.  Smith,  who  is  the  ap-  her  W  and  sucfss  ™  her  ^ew  a.?; 
praiser  for  Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  signment.     In  this  idling  she  will 
-r     4.  r>~               -n   i,            •  continue  to  serve  well.     Whatever 
1  rust  Company.    1  hey  have  a  nine-  ,     .      .        .      ,      ,        .,,    ,       .., 
,i          r»  i        A  n      o    •■!_  she  is  given  to  do  she  will  do  with 
year-old  son,  Robert  Colton  Smith.  purpos&   ^   directness?   tempered 
Sister    Smith   is   an   experienced  with  humility,  wisdom,  and    good 
business  secretary  and  has  been  an  judgment.    And,  permeating  all  her 
active  worker  in  the  P.T.A.  and  the  efforts,  will  be  a  spirit  of  tolerance, 
Red  Cross  organizations.     She  has  love,  and  compassion  for  her  fellow 
always  been  active  in  the  Church,  men. 
ERRATUM 
Attention  is  called  to  a  mistake  in  the  July  1947  issue  of  The  Reliet 
Society  Magazine,  page  351,  in  which  the  name  of  Sister  David  O.  McKay 
is  given  as  Jennette  Evans  McKay.  This  is  the  name  of  Brother  McKay's 
mother.    Sister  David  O.  McKay's  name  is  Emma  Rae  Riggs  McKay.

A  Visit  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands 
President  BeJJe  S.  Spafford 
ON  December  12,  1850,  Elder  the  language  and  were  the  means  in 
George  Q.  Cannon,  in  com-  the  hands  of  God  of  bringing  large 
pany  with  nine  other  elders  numbers  to  a  knowledge  of  restored 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ    of  truth. 
Latter-day  Saints,  landed  at  Hono-  Since  that  time  nearly  one  hun- 
lulu  on  the  beautiful  isle  of  Oahu.  dred  years  ago,  many,  many  mission- 
Groves  of  coconut  trees  with  their  aries  have  taught  the  gospel  to  the 
tall  trunks  and  long,  graceful  leaves,  inhabitants  of  these  mountainous 
as  well  as  other  trees  of  endless  va-  isles  of  the  Hawaiian  group;  and 
riety,  masses  of  living  green  from  the  these  people,  the  seed  of  Israel,  have 
root  upward,  being  covered  with  a  accepted  the  truth  until,  today,  two 
multitude  of  vines  and  creepers  of  fine  missions  and  a  great  stake  of 
many  kinds,  were  growing  abundant-  Zion  are  established  there;  a  sacred 
ly  on  the  isle.  There  were  blooming  temple  and  a  great  tabernacle  have 
shrubs,  ferns  and  flowers.  In  fact,  been  erected  by  the  Church  and  are 
so  beautiful  were  the  isles  of  the  viewed  with  interest  by  thousands 
Hawaiian  group  that  Elder  Cannon  who  visit  the  islands  annually, 
declared:  "We  longed  to  tread  upon  A  visit  to  this  romantic  country 
them."  under  ordinary  circumstances  would 
These  elders  had  been  sent  to  be  delightful;  to  go  there  and  mingle 
preach  the  gospel  to  the  Haole  with  the  choice,  sweet-spirited  wom- 
( white)  people  of  the  Hawaiian  Is-  en  who  have  accepted  the  gospe 
lands,  then  called  the  Sandwich  and  who,  imbued  with  its  spirit,  are 
Islands.  They  soon  saw,  however,  carrying  forward  the  work  of  Relief 
that  little  could  be  done  among  this  Society,  is  a  privilege  and  a  blessing, 
class  of  people  on  the  islands.  Some  Recently,  in  company  with  Sister 
of  the  elders  favored  returning  home,  Velma  N.  Simonsen,  General  Board 
but  Elder  Cannon,  seeing  himself  member,  I  enjoyed  such  an  oppor- 
surrounded  by  a  whole  nation  who  tunity,  when,  upon  assignment  of 
ought  to  be  taught  the  message  of  the  General  Board,  we  went  to  the 
salvation  which  God  had  empowered  islands  to  conduct  meetings  with  the 
them  to  carry,  was  so  urgently  im-  Relief  Society  sisters  there, 
pressed  with  the  feeling  that  he  On  April  23,  we  arrived  at  Hono- 
should  stay  and  teach  the  gospel  to  lulu  to  be  greeted  at  the  dock  by 
the  native  people  that  he  declared  President  and  Sister  Ralph  Woolley 
that  if  all  should  leave,  he,  though  of  Oahu  Stake,  President  and  Sister 
the  youngest  of  the  group,  would  re-  Melvyn  A.  Weenig  of  the  Central 
main,  learn  the  language,  and  do  Pacific  Mission,  Relief  Society  stake 
his  duty  as  an  elder  to  that  people  and  ward  officers  and  members,  mis- 
even  though  he  did  not  baptize  a  sionaries,  and  friends.  Only  one  who 
soul.  Consequently,  he  and  some  of  has  been  greeted  at  the  dock  amid 
the  elders  did  remain.  They  acquired  the  music  of  the  Royal  Hawaiian 
Page  516