[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Jacobs]

Social Science Essentials in Home Training Lesson 2
Honesty Elder Joseph Jacobs For Tuesday, November 25, 1947
Objective: To show that honesty is fundamental to an upright character, and that teaching of this principle and a consistent example set by daily living must be given children in the home. N a chemistry class in college the students were assigned several experiments to work out and hand in by the end of the term, in order to complete a certain unit. As they were finished and handed in, the experiments were checked off in the professor's roll book and posted on the bulletin board each month.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Early in the second month, Tom Russell's name appeared on the list, those experiments, For several days he IS Occurrence and was tempted to let it Pass.
Under the circumstances, no one would know Or question the fact that the work However, his He went to the professor and explained that there had been a mistake, that he an evil act apparently escapes detection, it leaves a mark upon the soul which cannot be erased. A proverb of old says:  good name is rather to be chosen than great riches" (Prov, 22:1), It is a high compliment to be "Own as an honest man, and too much emphasis cannot be made upon this basic Principle of living: J. P.
Morgan once loaned a large sum of money to a man who had very little collateral to offer as security. He was questioned for this apparent rashness.
Morgan answered that he made the loan because of the man's reputation over a long period, for his high honor and integrity.
When asked if collateral was not also important, Morgan replied he would not loan even a single dollar to a man he could not trust, regardless of his collateral (Dr. Franklin L. West: "Church Section," The Deseref News, March 30, 1946). Integrity, or honesty, is fundamental to the structure of our society.
Business is dependent upon the honesty of the individual members of society. It is estimated that seventy-five per cent of our modern business is done on credit, which simply means that people are assumed to be as good as their word. In his book Fundamentals oi Prosperity, Roger W.
Babson relates the following incident: While on a recent visit to Chicago, I was taken by the president of one of the largest banks to see his new safety deposit vaults. He described these — as bank presidents will— as the largest and most marvelous vaults in the city. He expatiated on the heavy steel doors and the various electrical and mechanical contrivances which protect the stocks and bonds deposited in the institution.
While at the bank a person came in to rent a box. He made the arrangements for the box, and the box was handed to him. In it he deposited some stocks and bonds which he took from his pocket.
Then the clerk who had charge of the vaults went to a rack on the wall and took out a key and gave it to the man. . . . The man then put the box into one of the steel compartments, shut the door and turned the key. He then went away feeling perfectly secure on account of those steel doors and various mechanical and electrical contrivances existing to protect his wealth. I did not wish to give him a sleepless night so I said nothing; but I couldn't help thinking how easy it would have been for that poorly-paid, hunchbacked clerk to make a duplicate of that key before he delivered it to the renter of that box.
With such a duplicate, the clerk could have made that man penniless within a few minutes after he had left the building. The great steel door and the electrical and mechanical contrivances would have been absolutely valueless. Of course the point I am making is that the real security which that great bank in Chicago had to offer its clientele lay not in the massive stone columns in front of its structure, nor in the heavy steel doors; nor the electrical and mechanical contrivances. The real strength of that institution rested in the honesty the absolute integrity of its clerks (pp. 13-15). What Statement Do We Have Which Shows the Latter-day Saint Belief in Honesty? As Latter-day Saints we believe in adhering to honesty in all its varied phases. The Prophet Joseph Smith, in giving a brief summary of our beliefs, stated, among other things, "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good to all men...." (13th Article of faith). What Does It Mean to Be Honest With One's Self?
Being honest with one's self is a noble ambition. It means living up to one's highest ideals. It means not succumbing to petty practices (even though they might never be discovered by others) that may jeopardize one's reputation or character, or that may injure someone else. It was Shakespeare who said: "To thine own self be true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man." No matter what the world thinks of us, we must live with ourselves and a Clear conscience is worth more than all the money or power in the world. The business man who misleads or overcharges and then salves his conscience with the doctrine that such practices are necessary in business, is untrue to himself and to others. The politician who shifts and stalls to keep in the good graces of different groups, that he may benefit personally, is a menace to society. The person who adroitly phrases a statement to give the wrong impression is untruthful in a very cowardly way. William George Jordan Says: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1947 He who is careless of his appointments is the thoughtless thief of another's time. The man who makes truth his watchword is careful in his words, he seeks to be accurate, neither understanding nor overcoloring. He never states as a fact that of which he is not sure.
What he says has the ting of sincerity, the hallmark of pure gold. If he praises you, you accept his statement as "net," you do not have to work out a problem in mental arithmetic on the side to see what discount you ought to make before you accept his judgment. His promise counts for something.... His honesty is not policy. The man who is honest merely because it is "the best policy" is not really honest, he is only politic.
Usually such a man would forsake his seeming loyalty to truth and would work overtime for the devil if he could get better terms. Man is usually loyal to what he most desires. The man who lies to save a nickel, merely proclaims that he esteems a nickel more than he does his honor. He who sacrifices his ideals, truth and character, for mere money or position, is weighing his conscience in one pan of scale against a bag of gold in the other (The Power of Truth, pp. 5-8). Can the Golden Rule Be Used as a Guide to Honesty? The Savior gave us a yardstick with which to measure honesty. It is so simple that even a child can understand it, and yet the whole world is suffering today from the lack of its application. It is stated in what is commonly referred to as the Golden Rule: "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them..." Is it a Form of Dishonesty to Neglect Church Obligations? One phase of dishonesty is revealed in the matter of how we carry out our obligations to the Lord, although many do not look upon it in that light.
When we become members of the Church, we are under LESSON DEPARTMENT obligation to support the Church by attending sacrament meetings, the payment of tithes, and living upright lives.
When we receive the Priesthood or are appointed to any office we assume other obligations, the performance of which is entirely dependent upon our own honesty. To fall down on these responsibilities is to be untrue to those obligations. How May We Teach Honesty at Home? The foundation for honesty should be laid very early in a child's life.
From its very infancy a child should be shown the straightforward way.
Example is always better than precept. A child is very quick to see any inconsistency between the spoken word and the actions of his patents. The procedures in the little happenings of everyday life sink deep into a child's consciousness.
Parents must live the truth if they desire their children to do so. A mother cannot successfully teach honesty at home and then lie about the child's age when buying a ticket to a movie. A mother cannot give a visitor a false impression and expect the child to be frank and trustworthy in his expressions. If a child returns from the store with more money than is due, he should be told to return it immediately. If he is found to have in his possession a toy which does not belong to him, he should take it back. Do not scold and reprimand with anger.
Gently explain that one must not take that which belongs to someone else as it is not right nor fair to others. It is well to have a child account for money given him to buy groceries or to make other purchases and to give him an 573 allowance for personal needs. It is well to keep in mind that one act of dishonesty may wreck the confidence which it has taken years to build.
Therefore no promise should ever be given to the child with the intention of pacifying him for the moment.
Punishment or reward should follow the promise as sure as the rising of the sun.
Then the child will understand that his promises, too, are not to be idle words but some thing to be depended upon. What Is the Proper Treatment for Lying? A child should not be scolded and threatened for telling a lie.