[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Fields Fjeldsted]
WHERE  THERE'S  A  WILL 
509 
next  home  would  be  reached  quicker 
by  walking  through  the  fields.  As 
both  of  their  babies  were  fast  asleep 
they  asked  young  Mrs.  M   , 
who  also  had  a  sleeping  baby,  if  she 
would  mind  if  they  left  their  babies 
there  with  her  while  they  made  their 
next  visit.  This  was  agreed  upon  and 
the  teachers  started  out.  However, 
they  had  not  gone  far  before  they 
heard  Mrs.  M   calling  in  a 
loud  voice,  "Come  quickly,  all  three 
babies  are  awake!" 
Wintertime  brought  hazards  to 
those  who  traveled  long  distances  to 
visit.  Many  times  the  teachers  would 
start  out  in  good  weather  only  to 
find  themselves  in  a  sudden  severe 
snowstorm  far  from  home.  Although 
they  sometimes  suffered  from  the 
extreme  cold  and  many  times  ar- 
rived home  hours  late,  still  they  were 
protected  and  none  lost  her  life.  In 
midwinter,  when  the  snow  was  heavy 
on  the  ground,  they  hitched  their 
teams  to  bobsleighs  and  thus  cov- 
ered their  districts.  In  one  commun- 
ity a  team  of  mules  was  often  used 
on  a  wagon  in  good  weather  and  on 
a  sleigh  in  the  winter. 
In  many  communities  the  women 
went  horseback  to  do  their  teaching. 
A  woman  now  in  her  eighties  re- 
lates that  she  and  a  companion,  both 
at  the  age  of  nineteen,  were  chosen 
to  be  teachers  in  a  little  Latter-day 
Saint  settlement.  They  rode  horse- 
back to  do  their  teaching  in  the 
ward,  comprising  twelve  families 
who  lived  up  and  down  a  creek  for 
a  distance  of  five  miles. 
Women  still  travel  by  horseback. 
In  one  of  the  northern  states,  where 
the  snow  lies  some  sixty  inches  deep 
in  the  winter,  a  mother  and  her 
daughter,  during  the  bad  weather, 
travel  in  this  manner  because  they 
can  cover  more  territory  in  less  time. 
Photograph,  Courtesy  Muriel  IS.  Wailis 
VISITING  TEACHING  IN  AN  EARLY  MODEL  FORD 
Parmelia  F.  Batty  of  Vernal,  Utah,  former  stake  Relief  Society  president,  and  her 
companion.