[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Literary Driggs]

Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall be fulfilled (1:37).
Upon you my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness (13). Economy, effect, and force play no small part in literary form. In all good writing these marks are found. The simple and direct style of the Doctrine and Covenants is in harmony with this thought. The beauty of truth is borne out in such writing.
With these thoughts in mind let us consider a characteristic literary pattern found in all true scriptural writing, that of parallel structure. In this Hebraic style an emphatic phrase is echoed several times throughout a passage with pleasing effect. The Doctrine and Covenants is characteristically Hebraic in style. Note: LESSON DEPARTMENT For my soul delighteth in the song of Let for he that keepeth the laws of God hath reign, and subdues all enemies under his Activities and Readings For Appreciation It is the Purpose of this first lesson to present three elements of literary form: namely, skill in the use of economy of words, effective choice of words, and the forceful use of such factors in scriptural Treading is to increase one's appreciation of its beauty, Other literary values to be found in the Doctrine and Covenants will be treated in lessons that follow. For and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together, of the Lord is unto all men, and there is 569 tone to escape; and there is no eye that shall not see, neither ear that shall not  n in these last days.
Forth and none shall Stay them, for I the Lord have commanded them (1:1-5).
Require not miracles, except I shall command you, except casting out devils, healing the sick, and against poisonous ser. I come, Jacob shall flourish in the wilderness, and the Lamanites shall blossom as the rose. Pointed (49:23-25), 570 I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (82:10). Therefore, verily I say unto you, my friends, call your solemn assembly, as I have commanded you. And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith.
Organize yourselves, prepare every needful thing; and establish a house, even a house of prayer, a house of fasting, a house of faith, a house of learning, a house of glory, a house of order, a house of God, That your incomings may be in the name of the Lord; that your outgoings may be in the name of the Lord; that all your salutations may be in the name of the Lord, with uplifted hands unto the Most High. Therefore, cease from all your light speeches, and from all laughter, from all your lustful desires, from all your pride and light-mindedness, and from all your wicked doings.
Appoint among yourselves a teacher, and let not all be spokesmen at once; but let one speak at a time and let all listen unto his sayings, that when all have spoken that all may be edified of all, and that every man may have an equal privilege. See that ye love one another; cease to be covetous; learn to impart one to another as the gospel requires.
Cease to be idle; cease to be unclean; cease to find fault one with another; cease to sleep longer than is needful; retire to thy x
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1947 bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated (88:117-124). And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen (89:18-21). Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full. Therefore, care not for the body, neither the life of the body, but care for the soul, and for the life of the soul. And seek the face of the Lord always, that in patience ye may possess your souls, and ye shall have eternal life.
When men are called unto mine everlasting gospel, and covenant with an everlasting covenant, they are accounted as the salt of the earth and the savor of men; they are called to be the savor of men; therefore, if that salt of the earth lose its savor, behold, it is thenceforth good for nothing only to be cast out and trodden under the feet of men (101:36-40). As a second activity have each member of the class choose a favorite passage of her own to discuss in the manner outlined above.