[Vol34 | August 1947 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Lesson | Title: Notes From the Field: Activities for Visiting Teachers and Special Centennial Programs General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering]
VISITING  TEACHING  IN  A  SLEIGH 
Lovell  West  Ward,  Big  Horn  Stake,  Wyoming 
Seated  front  row,  left  to  right:  Sofe  Johnson;  Clara  Adams,  the  oldest  visiting  teach- 
er in  the  ward;  Rhoda  Harrison;  R.  Fred  Harrison. 
Back  row,  left  to  right:  Delia  Tippets;  Elma  Mickelson;  Enid  Bassett  (child);  Lea 
Bassett;  Eva  Emmett. 
Photograph,  courtesy  Verna  Murphy 
HAWAIIAN  RELIEF  SOCIETY  VISITING  TEACHERS 
MAKING  A  CALL 
Left  to  right:    Sister  Ohia  Ferriera  (in  chair);  visiting  teachers,  Makaole  Kaleo  and 
Anna  Mahi.

WHERE  THERE'S  A  WILL 
513 
Photograph,  Courtesy  Lenora  K.  Bringhurst 
DRESSED  READY  FOR  VISITING  TEACHING  BY  DOG  TEAM 
AT  FAIRBANKS,  ALASKA 
Front  row,  left  to  right:  Esther  Woodcox;  Minnie  Carroll;  Thelma  V.  Walker; 
Eleanor  C.  Berrett. 
Second  row,  left  to  right:  Florence  Lauritzen;  Sharon  Berrett;  Arva  Carroll;  Rebecca 
Arend;  Mae  Oldroyd;  Mike  Agbaba,  whose  dog  team  won  the  first  prize  at  Fairbanks 
Winter  Carnival  in  1946. 
exchange  the  push  of  circumstances 
for  the  pull  of  a  strong  worthwhile 
purpose,  the  visiting  teachers  have 
learned  the  love  of  sisterhood,  and 
have  been  a  tremendous  force  in 
welding  together  the  individual 
members  of  Relief  Society  into  a 
united  whole,  and  with  a  consequent 
building  of  the  kingdom.  Indeed,  we 
might  say  each  teacher  would  concur 
with  the  words  of  Lord  Shaftsbury: 
During  a  long  life  I  have  found  that  not 
one  kind  word  ever  spoken,  not  one  kind 
deed  ever  done,  but  sooner  or  later  returns 
to  bless  the  giver  and  becomes  a  chain 
binding  men  with  golden  bands  to  the 
throne  of  God. 
THE  VISITING  TEACHER 
Lottie  Hammer  Singley 
I  do  not  have  a  golden  voice 
To  sing  my  song  to  men; 
I  do  not  have  a  silver  tongue 
Nor  wield  a  clever  pen. 
But  I  feel  deeply  others'  woes, 
My  soul  is  gay  and  bright; 
So  I  will  comfort,  bless,  and  cheer 
To  make  their  burdens  light.

ETHEL  COLTON  SMITH  515 
mother  was  a  Relief  Society  stake  having  taught  in   Primary,   Sunday 
president  in  Uintah  Stake  for  many  School,    and  M.I.A.   organizations, 
years  and  was  beloved  by  all  who  For  five  and  a  half  years  she  was  a 
knew  her  for  her  administrations  to  member  of  the  Highland  Stake  Re- 
the  sick,  for  her  comforting  and  en-  lief  Society  board,  acting  as  secre- 
couraging  words  in  time  of  trouble,  tary-treasurer  for  four  and  a  half  years 
and  for  her  generosity  in  time    of  of  that  time.  Working  closely  with 
need.     Early  in  her  life  Ethel  saw  Ethel  during  those  years,  I  learned 
compassionate  service,  which  is    a  to  know  her  well  and  to  appreciate 
vital  part  of  the  Relief  Society  plan,  her  ability.   Her  spirit  of  enthusiasm 
rendered  in  its  fullest  measure,  and  and  co-operation  made  it  a  joy  to 
learned  of  the  joy  that  comes  from  work  with  her;  and  to  give  her  an 
self-sacrifice  in  service  to  others.  She  assignment  was  to    know    that    it 
has  a  deep  love  for  Relief  Society  and  would  be  completed  promptly  and 
is  a  firm  believer  in  its  divine  origin  well,    with    every    detail    carefully 
and  purpose.  worked  out.    Her  knowledge  of  the 
Sister  Smith  was  born  in  White-  fundamental  rules  and  policies  of  the 
rocks,  Uintah  County,  Utah.     Her  Rehef  Society  organization,  and  her 
parents  were  Sterling  LeRoy  Colton  helpful  suggestions  for  putting  them 
and   Lula    Camp   Colton.   She  re-  into  practice  were  invaluable  m  car- 
ceived  her  education  in  the  public  rying  out  the  program  in  Highland 
schools  and  the  Uintah  Academy  at  Stake-    she  has  rendered  efficient, 
Vernal,  Utah,  and  at  the  Latter-day  effective  service  to  the  Society  and 
Saints  College,  Salt  Lake  City.  She  to    the    women    Wlth    whom    sh? 
was  married  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple  worked  and  associated.    They  wish 
to  Elwin  F.  Smith,  who  is  the  ap-  her  W  and  sucfss  ™  her  ^ew  a.?; 
praiser  for  Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  signment.     In  this  idling  she  will 
-r     4.  r>~               -n   i,            •  continue  to  serve  well.     Whatever 
1  rust  Company.    1  hey  have  a  nine-  ,     .      .        .      ,      ,        .,,    ,       .., 
,i          r»  i        A  n      o    •■!_  she  is  given  to  do  she  will  do  with 
year-old  son,  Robert  Colton  Smith.  purpos&   ^   directness?   tempered 
Sister    Smith   is   an   experienced  with  humility,  wisdom,  and    good 
business  secretary  and  has  been  an  judgment.    And,  permeating  all  her 
active  worker  in  the  P.T.A.  and  the  efforts,  will  be  a  spirit  of  tolerance, 
Red  Cross  organizations.     She  has  love,  and  compassion  for  her  fellow 
always  been  active  in  the  Church,  men. 
ERRATUM 
Attention  is  called  to  a  mistake  in  the  July  1947  issue  of  The  Reliet 
Society  Magazine,  page  351,  in  which  the  name  of  Sister  David  O.  McKay 
is  given  as  Jennette  Evans  McKay.  This  is  the  name  of  Brother  McKay's 
mother.    Sister  David  O.  McKay's  name  is  Emma  Rae  Riggs  McKay.