The Relief Society Ward President. By Annie Wells Cannon. There is, in my opinion, no Church officer to whom I would prefer to render tribute than that kind, forceful, and generous woman who has the task and the privilege to preside over a ward Relief Society. It is quite interesting to note the inspiration that seems to be given those in authority in the selection of women to hold this arduous position. Inspiration it certainly has to be, when one knows the many qualifications and requirements the office demands. How can a bishop and stake officer tell, even though they may have intimate acquaintance with the woman they select, that she will prove equal to the test! A successful president must combine many graces, besides the devotion of much time and energy.

Therefore, one would fancy that the choice would fall upon an educated, capable woman, so well provided with earthly goods that she could afford to give time and means and thought to her position. On the contrary, the majority of ward Relief Society presidents—and they number nearly a thousand—are the busiest women in the community, known perhaps more for the capable way they are serving their large families than anything else. And why not? When one finds a successful Latter-day Saint mother, immediately may one know that such a woman has ability for other things, and will so manage her time that she can perform any task allotted her. The requirements for a Relief Society president combine many virtues: executive ability, faith, wisdom, patience, sincerity, and most of all charity, in its very broadest sense. Virtues which adorn any woman, not alone in the home, but any place she may happen to be, either socially or officially. King Solomon said, "Find me a virtuous woman for her price is far above rubies." Among our Relief Society workers such women are numerous and their value is beyond calculation. Where can be found greater problems than come before the social service worker? How to provide for the needy; how to comfort the sorrowful; how to raise the poor in heart; how to serve and wait upon the sick; how to enter the house of mourning and prepare the dead for burial, at the same time comfort and cheer the mourners; how to seek out the poor, and the sorrowful, and provide for their wants; the task, too, to help the erring one, both by gentle admonition and a needed lift along the way. These are a few of the problems that come in the way of the ward president and her duty is to solve them all. That she is successful in her mission the thousands whom she has served will testify. Relief Society work, like all good things, carries with it a beautiful blessing, and though one may feel sometimes the strain of the work, at the same time one cannot help but recognize the wonderful help the work gives the worker. It is an education in the biggest, broadest sense. Not only development of mind, and strength of purpose, but that finer, richer education of the heart, which broadens the powers for good, which brings discernment, judgment and the most beautiful graces to the human soul. I have seen uncultivated, uneducated women of the poorer, hardworking class, develop all these graces under the work of the Relief Society and become most efficient and capable ward presidents. The woman may make the office splendid, but at the same time, the office makes the woman splendid. While we give a tribute of praise and love to those great women, the ward presidents of the Relief Society, let us also praise our Heavenly Father for the opportunities of Relief Society work.

NOTICE TO AGENTS. Only duly appointed agents for the are entitled to the agents' discount of 10%. Agents are furnished with subscription blanks and receipt books from the Magazine office. They will please deduct discount before sending in subscription lists; otherwise the discount will not be allowed. We are sorry to announce that the January number of the Magazine is exhausted. All late subscribers will necessarily begin with the February number. The heavy storms have so greatly interfered with traffic that the February number was late in reaching subscribers, a matter which is greatly regretted at the General Office.