Current Topics. James H. Anderson.

American troops have been withdrawn from Mexico; but Villa is not yet captured or killed. A German war vessel sank fifteen freight ships in the South Atlantic in December, whereupon a British squadron was sent in search of the raider. German war successes continued in Rumania during the past month. On the other war fronts there was little change in the situation from the previous month. Switzerland fears being forced into actual war in the great European conflict, and has mobilized all her available military strength. Utah Guardsmen were withdrawn from the Mexican border the last week in January. All the Utah troops are back home, and glad of it. A Temple for the Latter-day Saints is being talked of for Mesa, Arizona, and may be an assured fact within a few years. A sugar factory has been decided upon for Cornish, in Cache county, Utah, and the West Cache Sugar Company organized to build it. Nudity in moving picture shows has been condemned by the National board of censors, and none too soon to restrict the coarseness which produced such exhibitions. President Wilson addressed the United States Senate on a universal peace plan on January 22; but the United States could not display sufficient strength to enforce such a plan, and universal peace is not in sight by any human means yet devised. Cold and stormy weather for the longest period Utah has experienced in more than thirty years has been the record for December and January. After such a winter, spring is doubly welcome.

A Mormon Battalion monument to cost $200,000 is proposed, and the State has been asked to contribute half the sum necessary, upon the other half being raised by popular subscription. Two Aviators of the United States army lost their way on a flight eastward from California in January, and landed in Lower California, whence they were rescued when almost dead from exhaustion. They claim the compass went wrong. The word "sex," as an addition in the fifteenth amendment to the National Constitution, has been proposed in Congress. Its adoption would admit women to the elective franchise all over the Union. Admiral George Dewey, who won lasting fame by his brilliant exploit at Manila Bay on May 1, 1898, during the Spanish American war, died 16th January, in the eightieth year of his age. The great western scout, William F. Cody, popularly known as "Buffalo Bill," died on January 10. Peace terms were named by the Entente Allies in reply to the German note stating a willingness to conclude peace; but Germany made no counter-proposition further than to declare for a more vigorous war policy. Coal shortage in Utah became very acute during the month of January. The public blames the railway, because of its failure to deliver shipments of coal earlier in the season, when partial storage of a winter supply could have been made.

The Utah Legislature has an abundance of legislation before it at the present session, some good and some bad. Increased revenues for the State is the call of many officeholders' schemes before the Utah Legislature; but it is notable that there is no scheme of increased revenue for or a saving of expense to the common taxpayer. The Mann white slave act has been held by the United States Supreme Court to cover all interstate transportation of women for immoral purposes. As might be expected, men who justify personal immorality are not pleased with the broad scope of the decision.

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto: