It was a happy thought, that of commemorating the organization of the Relief Society by celebration, in speech, in retrospect and in general rejoicing. This day is so full of wonders and possibilities; and yet, our human memories are so treacherous—human life is so transient—that we would forget friends, teachers, parents, prophets, leaders, and all great work events, were it not for memorial days, history books, portraits or statues. Out of our lives these would fade and out of the world's great hall of fame they would all pass away but for some natural and human devised methods of preserving their memory for posterity. The results of great events and lives would live true but not the human recollection of them. And so, it is good to meet on this day and to remind ourselves of the organization of this, the first duly organized body of women in modern times. Let us hear about it, read about it, think about it, with gratitude and with much of awe and reverence.

There have been groups of Catholic women shut up in convents for nearly two thousand years, but these were under the control of the priests; there was no effort at self-expression nor self-government among the women. They were doing violence to every call and demand of nature, but one—benevolence. The bishop or priests made the rules of their order and controlled the property of the order. The women were—in short—recluses, living without any human ties, most of them forever forbidden intercourse with friends or family. Many devoted women thus immolated themselves on the altar of sacrifice—they left the world in order to escape the snares of the world. Here and there in modern times a woman had risen—a Mary Wollstonecraft, an Abigail Adams, a Mary Lyon, crying out the need for greater freedom of thought and action for women; but not until that day in March, 1842, had women gathered to organize or to be organized into an independent self-governing body for cultural and benevolent purposes. Six years after that, in 1848, at Seneca Falls, there gathered that brave group of three women who named themselves, "The Woman's Rights Association." Others and still others followed in quick and bewildering succession. But the Relief Society, organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was the pioneer, the pathmaker, the foundation stone of woman's modern evolution.

What vast interests for the betterment of women, children, of humanity in general have grown out of that meeting seventy-five years ago. The Society itself has developed its charitable and benevolent functions, into mammoth proportions. Nursing the sick as a neighborhood activity, training nurses and midwives, co-operative enterprises, the raising and manufacture of silk, equal suffrage.

Young Ladies and Young Men's Improvement Associations, Primary Associations for the children, a Home for Women, a magazine owned, managed and edited by women, books written and printed for women and children, correspondence courses in literature, art, home science, in genealogy, with great genealogical conventions, libraries, commodious offices as headquarters for all three of the women's organizations, elaborate and effective organization houses, great stores of grain for times of famine, lands, stocks, bonds, properties all these are among the many blessings and benefits which have resulted directly and indirectly to the "Mormon" women as the outgrowth of that meeting seventy-five years ago. Great organizations and councils of women have developed among the women of the world until these club and council movements well-nigh cover the earth as the waters cover the mighty deep. Truth once revealed to the world, may and often does become the common property of men in various parts of the earth. So when the Prophet "turned the key for women," in that wondrous March meeting, the door was opened, and an increasing flood of light and privilege for women issued therefrom. The light of sex-freedom was in the world and it was freely offered to the women of this Church while the women of the world found and still do find it necessary to strive and struggle and sacrifice to obtain that which is our free gift. Did the Prophet see all this with the sure vision? No doubt he did; his words presage that. And above all dear and earnest sisters and readers this has all been done without one shadow of sex-antagonism. The Savior asked the Father for His disciples in His last earthly prayer, "I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil" (John 17:15). So indeed, has it been with the women of this Society. They have not set aside nor neglected their daily toils, nor precious home duties; but, through enlargement of soul and sphere, they have found time and opportunity to mother the ward, the town, the community. They are still women and wives and mothers they are also human, and world movers. What a wondrous day was that the seventeenth of March, 1842. Let us recall it in song and story, while we rejoice that we are women and members of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

Elder Stephen L. Richards has been chosen and ordained an Apostle to fill the vacancy in the quorum which was caused by the death of President Francis M. Lyman. Elder Richards is a young man of intellectual and physical vigor, and is not only a power for good in his own community, but in every quarter where his influence is felt. He was born June 18, 1879, and is the son of Dr. Stephen Longstroth and Louise Stayner Richards. He is the grandson of Willard Richards who was a prisoner in Carthage jail with the Prophet and Patriarch when these two were murdered by a mob. He received his early education in the public schools of Salt Lake City and later attended the University of Utah and the University of Chicago, being graduated from the law department of the latter institution in 1904. Since that time he has been successfully engaged in the practice of law in Salt Lake City. Elder Richards has held many positions of importance in the various auxiliary organizations of the Church, and in 1907 was appointed a member of the General Board of the Deseret Sunday School Union. Two years later he was made Second Assistant to the General Superintendent of Sunday Schools,