Guide Lessons.

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in April.

SEEKING A WIFE RACHEL. (Reading: Chapters 37-47 of Genesis, omitting Chapter 38.)

Marriage cuts a very wide swath in all primitive society, but it cuts an especially wide one in the early days of Israelitish history, on account of the promises made to Abraham concerning "the seed." This is why so much of the biblical account of the first patriarchs is occupied with the matrimonial affairs of those who comprise the direct line to Christ, like Isaac and Jacob. But the wooing of Rebecca and that of Rachel were essentially different, although each is characteristic of the times in which it took place. Jacob, like his father, was a shepherd. But his brother Esau was a hunter. These were the principal occupations in those early times. And, if we may judge by the characters of the two men, they chose their callings wisely. Indeed, Rachel herself, and perhaps Leah, may be called a shepherdess, for when Jacob came to the home of his ancestors first he found his future wife taking care of sheep. Josephus notes that he met "with shepherds in the suburbs" of Haran, "boys grown up, and maidens sitting by a certain well," Rachel being apparently among the number. Isaac, seemingly, and Rebecca were imbued with the same idea which Abraham had that no marriages should be contracted between the Chosen People and their Canaanitish neighbors. This pair, especially Isaac with whom the hairy Edomite was a favorite, found great offense in Esau's marriage with two Canaanitish women, one of whom was the daughter of "a great lord," such as lords went in those days. Esau realized this, for he afterward took another wife who he thought would please his father. And Jacob might not have done any better if it had not been for the forethought of his shrewd mother. It was she who suggested, when the rupture over the mess of potage occurred between the two sons, that Jacob should go to the land of her nativity to marry him a wife—a suggestion to which Isaac readily agreed.

As in the days of Abraham, so in those of Jacob, children were something like property in the hands of their parents, as long as the parents were living. We do not read of the slightest objection on the part of Jacob, although he was past forty, to the proposal that he go to Mesopotamia for a wife. Josephus has a curious passage in this connection as affecting Esau. He tells us that Esau, "now come to the age of forty," when he married the Canaanitish women already referred to, did so "without so much as asking the advice of his father; for had Isaac been the arbitrator, he had not given him leave to marry thus, for he was not pleased with contracting any alliance with the people of that country; but not caring to be uneasy to his son, by commanding him to put away these wives, he resolved to be silent." The same unquestioning obedience to parental advice is observed also in the case of Leah and Rachel. Although Rachel must have known of Jacob's love for her and of the request he had made her father for her hand and although she must therefore have looked forward for seven long years to the union, she nevertheless had nothing to say apparently when her father unceremoniously substituted her sister for her on the night of the marriage. Implicit obedience was exacted by parents in ancient times, not only of children but of grown sons and daughters as well. Whatever view we take of this marriage of Jacob, much depended upon it. Jacob, by reason of his purchase of the birthright, was heir to the family promises. Moreover, he had received the blessing belonging to the heir. When Isaac's sight had failed him to the point where he could no longer attend properly to the customary sacrifice, he asked Esau to prepare him some venison. This was not, most likely, an ordinary meal.

Rather it be as a sacrificial feast of some sort. The aged patriarch expected from this occasion, it would seem, a manifestation from heaven which would enable him to give his son an inspired blessing. This blessing, however, Jacob received by anticipating his brothers' offering. It was through him, therefore, that the promised Seed should come. Hence the importance that attached to his marriage. There are two customs connected with marriage in those days which are thrown into sight in the biblical narrative of the events we have been considering. One of these is that the daughters were married off according to their age, the eldest first, instead of according to their success in attracting the attention of the male. Or was this merely a ruse to deceive the unwary Jacob into remaining another seven years? For Laban was a tricky man by nature. When he saw that in his proposed son-in-law he had an exceptional person, he professed to be absolutely opposed to having Rachel go to the strange land which had lured 166 . his sister Rebecca. At all events, Jacob seems not to have known anything about this custom if such it was. Another custom, it appears, was to veil the bride on entering the bridal chamber. This fact if we reject the explanation of Josephus that Jacob was "in drink as well as in the dark" would account for Jacob's not recognizing Leah till next morning. Polygamy, it would appear, was common in those times, not only in the chosen family but also among the nations surrounding them. Isaac, it seems, had but one wife, although his father Abraham had more than one. Jacob was a polygamist by compulsion. He was forced into plural marriage first by his crafty father-in-law and afterward by the rivalry of Leah and Rachel. If he had had his own way, doubtless, he would have been content with his first love. But then the course of history would have taken a different direction, so that, after all, the Lord may have been using Laban and his two daughters to bring about His great purposes. Esau, as we have already seen, took two Canaanitish women to be his wives. We are told all these details in such a way as to leave us the inevitable inference that this custom was a common practice in that age. Religion appears to have figured very largely in the daily lives of the group of persons we are considering. Rebecca, as we have seen, sought the Lord just prior to the birth of her famous "twin sons." Josephus tells us that Isaac appealed to Him for guidance in this important event whether in connection with his wife or alone, we do not know. Visions and dreams play an important part in the daily lives of these people. Jacob, while on his way from the home of his father, saw that famous ladder "reaching up into heaven, on which the angels were ascending and descending." Even Laban was warned in a dream, or vision, that if he attacked Jacob, when the latter was fleeing from his father-in-law, the Lord would fight Israel's battles for him. And again, just before Jacob met his brother Esau, the angel of the Lord appeared to him and told him not to fear the Edomite. Joseph also was "a dreamer." Before the grain was sold to Egypt, he had his two dreams of the sheaves and the sun and the moon, which symbolized the relation he would sustain to his father and his brothers in the dim future. And then there are the dreams he interpreted in Egypt, through which he was elevated to the second place in that great nation. It was doubtless religion that gave these people such a high ideal of chastity. When Dinah, Jacob's daughter, was violated, as the family was on its way back to the Promised Land, we are informed just how virtue was looked upon in woman. Although the defiler was the son of a "king" and although it appears that the act was performed in order to bring about a marriage between GUIDE LESSONS. 167 the pair, still, when Jacob's sons learned of the affair, they fell upon the whole town where the offense had been committed, and slaughtered every grown male therein. As to how virtue was looked upon in the man in those days, perhaps the best example is to be found in Joseph, the son of Rachel and Jacob. After his arrival in the valley of the Nile, he entered the household of Potiphar. He was an unusually handsome young man, it seems, and the lady of the house fell in love with him. Now, in those days immorality was extremely prevalent in Egypt; society was corrupt.

And most likely Joseph came in contact with this form of corruption. But he preferred to keep his virtue, even though in doing so he ran the risk of imprisonment or death. Rachel and Leah, it appears from the biblical narrative, were accustomed to a species of idolatry in their father's house. There were household gods in the family, which had been handed down from generation to generation. Josephus represents Laban as saying, on the occasion that he follows Jacob in search of the gods which Rachel had stolen: "Thou hast treated me as an enemy, by driving away my cattle; and by persuading my daughters to run away from their father; and by carrying home those sacred paternal images which were worshiped by my forefathers, and have been honored with the like worship which they paid them, by myself." Jacob, we are told by this same historian, "had taught Rachel to despise the worship of those gods."

1. Why is marriage given so much prominence in the account of the patriarchs Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob?
2. What were the chief occupations in those times?
3. What did Rachel and Isaac think of a marriage between their children and the Canaanites?
4. Show from actual citations what was the relation between children and parents. Is that condition preferable to ours? Why do you think so?
5. Why did such importance attach to the marriage of Jacob?
6. Tell of some customs connected with marriage then.
7. Show that plural marriage was common at that time.
8. Explain the importance of religion in those days.
9. How was chastity looked upon, by the Israelites of that day? By the Egyptians? Did the Israelites have a single or a double standard of morality? Justify your views.

"And take * * * the Sword of the Spirit which is the Word of God."

168 .

1. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 
2. Bible, Genesis, Chapter 38.
3. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 2.
4. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 3.
5. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 4.
6. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 20.
7. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 21.
8. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 22.
9. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 23.
10. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 24.
11. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 19.
12. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 18.
13. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 15, 16, 17.
14. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 13, 14.
15. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 11, 12.
16. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 10.
17. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 8, 9.
18. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 6, 7.
19. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 4, 5.
20. Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 2, 3.
21. Doctrine and Covenants, Section 1.
22. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 15.
23. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 18.
24. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 19.
25. Bible, Exodus, Chapter 20.
26. Bible, Psalm 30.
27. Bible, Psalm 31.
28. Bible, Psalm 32.
29. Bible, Psalm 33.
30. Bible, Psalm 34.

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week In April.

LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in April.

It is not surprising that many people all over Europe adopted the easy custom of surnaming themselves after states, or farms, or towns, or any dwelling place where they resided permanently.

The Frenchman retains to this day, the little preposition "de" which means of attached to his surname and even to his title. For instance, D'Arcy, and DeVesci are still famous French names. DeRudeville is another. DePomeroy is still another name which was transplanted to England. These names simply meant that William DePomeroy or John D'Arcy once lived or owned estates which bore the name Arcy and Pomeroy. In England these names were very quickly Englishized. It soon came about that men who owned large estates would be spoken of as John of Dean. If he lived near a church he might be called William of Eccles. If he was a toll-gate keeper he might be called Gates or Yates, the Gate-keeper. On the other hand if he lived near a hill or boundary, he might be called Lynch, the Anglo-Saxon spelling of which was Flinch. Mr. Lower who wrote a book about surnames tells us: "The Saxons and Angles called places after their names. Wright, in his History of Ludlow, says: "Many of the names are compounded of those of Anglo-Saxon possessors, or cultivators, and the original forms of such words are readily discovered by a reference to Domesday Book. * * * Names of places having in the middle are generally formed from patronymics, which in Anglo-Saxon had this termination. Thus, a son of Alfred was Alfreding; his descendants in general were Alfredings or Alfredingas."

These patronymics are generally compounded with ham, tun, etc., and whenever we can find the name of a place in pure Saxon documents, we have the patronymic in the genitive case plural. Thus, Birmingham was Beormingham, the home or residence of the sons and descendants of Beorm. "In the old Anglo-Saxon "hus" was house; cot is well known; "burh" was a fortified place from which came Canterbury, Salisbury, Amesbury, Shaftesbury. Acre always meant the cornland, ploughed or sown. It enters into many combinations: Goodacre, Oldacre, Longacre, Witacre. Angle, a corner. Atten-Angle has given us Nangle. John de Angulo, was in the 1273 (Hundred Rolls"). Barrow (A. S., Beorg), a wooded hill fit for pasturing swine. Beck is an Old English name for a high pasture or shelving piece of moorland; thence the names Broadbent and Bentley. Both (A. S.), a booth or wooden house. Also Celtic bodd, a settlement, as Bodmin, the monastic settlement; Freebody, and other names ending in bod and body. Bottle (A. S. Botl), a diminutive of both. In the Highlands abothie is so used; in German we have Wolfenbüttel. It occurs in Harbottle (the highly-situated bottle), Newbottle, Bolton is the tun containing a bottle; Bothwell and Claypole, the bottle in the clay. Bottom (A. S. botn), the head of a valley. Burg (A. S. burh, in O. N. bjorg, D. borg, G. burg). Brook, originally a morass, then a stream, was a very common name. It occurs over and over again in the Hundred Rolls. By (O. N. bær, byr; Danish by, a farm), originally a single house, then came to be employed of a group of houses. Cot (A. S.), a thatched cottage, with mud walls. Draycott is the dry cottage. Dingle, a depth of wood. Eccles (German), was a church: Egloskerry, Egloshayle, Eccles in Norfolk and Lancashire, Ecclesfield in Yorkshire, and Eccleston. Field is properly a clearing, where trees have been felled. Ford (Celtic fordd; Anglo-Saxon ford), a way; only in a secondary sense signifies a ford across a river. Garth (A. S.), an enclosed place; hence garden, yard. Gate may mean a road, as Bishopsgate; but also a barrier. Sometimes corrupted to yat: Ramsgate, Margate, Westgate; surnames Gates and Yates, Yeatman (the gatekeeper). Hatch and Hacket, a gate or bar thrown across a gap. Hall and Heal (A. S.), a slope. Ham (A. S.), has two significations with the a long it signifies home; with the a short it signifies a field enclosed. Burnham is the enclosure by the brook. Hay, a hedge to an enclosure; often a small park. From this simple root we have the surnames Hay, Hayes, Haigh, and Hawes and Hawkes, and in combination Haywood, Haworth, Haughton. Holm (O. N.), a flat island. Holt is the same as the German Holz, a wood or copse. House (A. S., and O. N.), often contracted in us, as Alus (the old house), Malthus (the malt-house), Loftus (the house with a loft). Hurst (A. S.), a wood, very common in Sussex. Ing (O. N. eng), a meadow by the river. Lane. On the Hundred Rolls are numerous entries such as these: Cecilia in the Lane, Emma a la Lane, John de la Lane, Phillippa atte Lane, Thomas super Lane; so that, although a Norman family of L'Ane came over with the Conqueror, we cannot set down all the Lanes as his descendants. Lee, Legh, Leigh, Ley, Lea (A. S. leah, m.), a fallow pasturage. Pitt, a sawpit, coalpit, or pitfall. Platt, low-lying ground. Ros (C. rhos), a heath: Roskelly, Penrose, Rosedue. Royd (O. N.), a clearing in a wood. Shaw (O. N. skog) is (1) A small wood or coppice; (2) a flat at the foot of a hill; (3) a boggy place by a river. Stead (A. S.), a home. Thrope (A. S.; Danish torp; German dorf), a hamlet. Tun (O. N), the enclosure about a farm, enters into many combinations, as ton and town. Brighton is Brighthelmston, Wolverhampton is Wolfardes-home-field. Wick, Wyke, Week (Lat. vicus), a settlement: Warwick, Greenwich, Berwick, Germansweek, Week St. Mary, Hardwick, Norwich, and many others come from this root. With (O. N. viðr), a wood: Beckwith, Skipwith. Wood becomes sometimes in combination Hood, sometimes Good. Yat, for Gate, a still common pronunciation; hence the surname Yates.

Third Week in April.

Most of the poetry we have for children has been written during very recent times. Before about fifty years ago, indeed, authors paid little attention to child life. In Shakespeare's plays, for example, there are almost no child characters. But within the last half century much poetry has been written for children. It should be our effort to study this literature and make choice selections from it for reading in our homes.

In saying that children's poetry is of very recent origin, we must not overlook our Mother Goose melodies, which are really about as old as the race. No one knows exactly when such nonsense jingles as "This little pig went to market," "Hey diddle diddle," "Sing a song of sixpence," "Rockabye baby up in the tree top," and the other nursery rhymes were first sung to amuse the little folk. These harmless nonsense songs have been heard by babes of every generation for hundreds of years, and they will probably continue to be sung as long as there are babies to play with and rock to sleep. These are the child's first poetry. Some of the Mother Goose rhymes, such as "King William was King James's son," "London's bridge is falling down," and the old counting out rhymes used in "hide-and-seek," were created for plays and games. In earlier times, young and old would romp together over the village green, making up their own music for their folk games and dances.

The nursery jingles were followed years afterward by rhymes written to teach morals and manners. These seem to have sprung chiefly from Puritan sources. Parents and preachers then were rightly very anxious to "train up the child in the way he should go." They therefore gave him little lessons of life in rhymes, which made them easy to get and hard to forget. For illustration: 

"Let dogs delight to bark and bite, 
For 'tis their nature to; 
But, children, you should never let 
Your angry passions rise, 
Your little hands were never made 
To tear each other's eyes."

"Little drops of water, 
Little grains of sand, 
Make the mighty ocean 
And the pleasant land. 

"Little deeds of kindness, 
Little words of love, 
Make the earth an Eden 
Like the heaven above."

Such wholesome rhymes serve a very good purpose. Strictly speaking, however, they are hardly child rhymes; because the child does not naturally moralize. He simply enjoys life. Nevertheless, these little life lessons, done up in easy-to-carry packages, are good for him to take with his Mother Goose melodies.

When the poets of later days, chiefly of our own time, began to pay attention to children, they wrote of them from an adult viewpoint. Their poems were about children, not for them. Whittier's "Barefoot Boy," pictures the poet remembering the joys of his own boyhood. It is an old man patting a boy on the head—a beautiful picture, but not so much for boys as grownups. Longfellow's "Children's Hour," and Lowell's "First Snowfall" are likewise poems for older folk. Such poems may bring some enjoyment to children; but truly speaking, they are not child poetry.

Among the earliest poets who really made an effort to write from the child's viewpoint are Alice and Phoebe Cary. These sisters produced a good many little poems that are wholesome and childlike. Among them are "The Leak in the Dike," "An Order for a Picture," "Three Little Bugs in a Basket," and "Suppose." The last named begins as follows:

"Suppose, my little lady, 
Your doll should break its head, 
Could you make it well by crying 
Till your eyes and nose were red?"

The poems by the Cary sisters always teach a moral. Charles and Mary Lamb also wrote a few little poems for little folk. They were very prim little English rhymes, intended to help children to act very properly. From this type of poetry, there has been a gradual development into the real child rhymes of today.

Among the first of the poems that really reflect the child spirit was MARY AND HER LITTLE LAMB.

"Mary had a little lamb, 
Its fleece was white as snow, 
And everywhere that Mary went, 
The lamb was sure to go. 

"It followed her to school one day, 
Which was against the rule. 
It made the children laugh and play 
To see a lamb in school. 

"And then the teacher turned it out, 
But still it lingered near, 
And waited patiently about 
Till Mary did appear. 

"'What makes the lamb love Mary so?' 
The eager children cry, 
'Why, Mary loves the lamb, you know,' 
The teacher did reply."

There has been some doubt as to the authorship of this poem; but recent investigations have practically proved that it was written by a Mr. Coulson, and that the incident on which the poem is based is true. It happened one day when this gentleman was visiting a country school. On returning home, he wrote the poem. "Mary and Her Lamb" is a true type of child's poetry. It reflects child-life from the child's viewpoint. A sweet little lesson is suggested in the last stanza; but there is no moralizing nor preaching about it. "Twinkle.

Twinkle, Little Star" is another beautiful poem, produced in earlier days for children. 174 . From these beginnings toward the right kind of verse for little folk, we have developed rather rapidly until now we have a good many beautiful poems for children. Among those who have helped to produce such literature is Mary Mapes Dodge, for many years editor of the St. Nicholas Magazine. She deserves first mention, not because she wrote much children's literature herself—though she did write some very good stories and poems—but because she inspired a host of others to write; and she gave them opportunity to publish their writings in her magazine. Mary Mapes Dodge may be called the mother of writers for children. Other special names that should be remembered here are Lucy Larcom, Jane Taylor, Celia Thaxter, Eliza Follen, Edward Lear, Frank D. Sherman, Christina Rosetti, and Emilie Paulson. These all have given us bright and beautiful verse for children. As an illustration, take this first stanza of Sir Robin, a delightful bird lyric, from the pen of Lucy Larcom: "Rollicking robin is here again, What does he care for the April rain? Care for it! Glad of it! Doesn't he know That the April rain carries off the snow And coaxes out leaves to shelter his nest, And washes his pretty red Easter vest, And makes the juice of the cherry sweet, For the hungry little robins to eat! 'Ha, ha, ha,' hear the jolly bird laugh, That isn't the best of the story, by half." Among all our children's poets, however, these three names stand out: Robert Louis Stevenson, Eugene Field, and James Whitcomb Riley. Stevenson has given us a charming little volume called A Child's Garden of Verses, filled with poems that reflect the heart of the children. This great writer never forgot his childhood days in bonnie Scotland. "The Shadow," "Foreign Children," "Windy Nights," "The Swing," all of his child poems show clearly that he was a child at heart. Eugene Field, likewise, kept the rollicking spirit of youth. His Love Songs of Childhood and With Trumpet and Drum are two little volumes full of choice lyrics of child life. Of James W. Riley a volume might be written. On his seventieth birthday the children of his birthtown strewed his way with roses as he rode along its streets in an automobile with the "happy little cripple boy," whom he has immortalized in one of his poems. Riley's verse is written artistically in child dialect. GUIDE LESSONS. It is full of sweet humor and pathos, and always reflects truly the spirit of the little folk. Space forbids our giving further illustrations; but the following books containing these and other child verse can be readily obtained. We commend them to our mothers for the home library: Nursery Rhymes, Welsh, D. C. Heath & Co. Rhymes and Stories, Lansing, Ginn & Co. Pinafore Palace, Wiggin, McClure Co. The Posy Ring, Wiggin, McClure Co. Child's Calendar Beautiful, Beeson, Scribner's. Little Folk Lyrics, Sherman, Houghton Mifflin Co. Child's Garden of Verses, Stevenson, Rand McNally. The Eugene Field Book, Field, Scriptures. Child Rhymes, Riley, Bobbs-Merrill. The Riley Reader, Riley, Bobbs-Merrill. Mothers may also find in the readers used in school much beautiful poetry for children. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. During what time has most of the poetry we have for children been created? 2. What kind of verse for little folks has come from very early times? 3. For what purpose mainly were the Mother Goose melodies created? Illustrate. 4. Let each class member be ready to give a little "moral rhyme" intended to teach a lesson to children. 5. What characterizes the poetry that Longfellow, Whittier and other poets of their time wrote concerning children. Illustrate by reading "The Village Blacksmith," or some other poem. 6. Find some child poem written by Alice or Phoebe Cary, or by the other children's poets named herein and read it to class. 7. What qualities does the true child's poem possess? 8. What three children's poets have gained greatest prominence? Let poems from each of these be read. 9. Find in The Juvenile Instructor, The Children's Friend, and other Church magazines; or in our song book, some poem that you feel is true to the spirit of child life. 176 . LESSON IV. Home Economics INTRODUCTION OF SOLID FOOD Fourth Week in April. The weaning of the child with the subsequent introduction of solid foods is one of the most difficult problems in medicine. Up to the time of weaning, the child has been receiving the perfect food, the mother's milk. Our problem now is to introduce in their proper proportion the different food ingredients in a form that can be easily handled by the child.

The same care must be exercised here in the selection of foods that we would exercise in the modification of cow's milk. The proprietary foods have been condemned because they did not contain a proper proportion of all of the food ingredients. We must exercise care that we are not guilty of the same fault in the feeding of the child during the second year of life. It has been said that 40 percent of all children in their second year are anemic, by that, mean that there is a deficiency of iron and other mineral salts in the blood. This is entirely due to mistakes in diet. A common saying amongst mothers is that the second summer is the most difficult for the child to pass through. This is clearly due to the fact that we do not make a proper choice of foods for the child. During the first year of life babies are peculiarly immune to the infectious diseases. Where the mother's health is poor with the subsequent production of poor milk do we find babies that contract the infectious diseases. If the problem of diet could be carefully worked out I feel certain that the reason for this immunity would be found to be due to the fact that the child is getting perfect food. This immunity then could be prolonged through the second year of life and throughout life if we could properly nourish the body. Within the human organism are all the possibilities for developing substances that protect us against the inroads of disease. Perfect physical health which would follow the proper nourishment of the body would give to us abundance of all of these protective forces and our fear of contagious diseases would be very much lessened. Disease can only make headway where the vitality is lowered, and in the vast majority of cases our vitality is lowered through mistakes in diet and errors in hygiene. The baby's teeth should appear at six months of age, this is nature's signal to begin the introduction of outside foods. A crust of stale bread given at this time serves to satisfy the child's craving for other foods as well as to assist in breaking the way of the teeth through the gums. As the child gets older the cereals, oatmeal, cream of wheat or other cereals cooked three hours in a double boiler so as to thoroughly dissolve the starch granules, with a little cream or milk, and sugar in small quantities, should be also introduced at this time. Sugar, however, is usually a dangerous food because the child forms a liking for the sugar and will not take any food unless it is sweetened excessively. Sugar plays an important part in the diet of the child, but in cases where there are any indications of indigestion or malnutrition the cereal foods should be given without sugar. I have found no difficulty in getting babies to take the cereals without sugar. Their liking for sugar comes only as the result of its long continued use. If the baby's teeth are slow in appearing it is sometimes necessary towards the end of the first year to allow half of a soft-boiled egg, some fruit in the form of orange juice, stew or baked apples, stewed prunes and some of the vegetables; purée of peas, string beans, asparagus tips and carrots cooked until they mash readily with a fork, prepared preferably in milk gravy. Occasionally the mother may notice that particles of vegetables come through the intestine apparently undigested. Unless these food particles set up an irritation with the subsequent diarrhea no attention should be paid to this since the mineral salts are absorbed even though nature does not extract all of the food value from them. Cow's milk should be allowed with a normal child in a dilution of two-thirds milk and one-third water. If the child begins to vomit or there is trouble with the bowels the milk can be diluted still more. Gradually, however, the milk should be increased in amount until by the end of the first year the child should be getting the whole milk. As the time for weaning approaches, the mother can introduce one bottle a day of this modified cow's milk, gradually increasing the number of feedings with cow's milk and decreasing the breast feedings. In this way the child will be made to wean itself within a very short time and with no trouble whatever. Only in exceptional cases should the child be weaned suddenly. There is generally no necessity for this sudden breaking away from the breast feedings.

In introducing new foods to the child one important point should always be borne in mind, that every food introduced is new to the child's digestive apparatus. It is necessary, therefore, to adopt these foods gradually. A tolerance must be formed for every food that is given. In other words educate the digestive tract to handle these foods. Beginning with small quantities increase the amounts until a normal diet is reached. Very frequently mothers ask why it is that their children are unhealthy in spite of the fact that they exercise every precaution 178 . of diet within their power, whereas, Mrs. Smith's babies are never sick and yet are allowed to eat everything that is on the table. The reason for this is apparent, the careful mother goes to the extreme in depriving her child of foods that it should have while the careless mother permits the child's appetite to be its own guide. As a result it gets those foods that nature calls for. The instinct for self-preservation manifests itself here very clearly. Animals will go for miles and lick up the dirt in their search for certain of the minerals. The same is true with children, guided by nature they take those foods that their system is demanding. Often I am consulted to know why children eat dirt. In some cases babies have picked large holes in the plaster in the wall and eaten it. This illustrates the necessity for a well balanced diet since nature will go to the extreme of leading the child to eat dirt and plaster in its efforts to obtain mineral salts. The points then to be remembered in the introduction of solid foods, is to be sure to get that variety of foods that will insure an abundant supply of all of the food elements. The following diet is merely suggestive but will give mothers an idea of what children should have during the second year. Cereals: Oat meal. Cream of wheat. Corn meal. Farina. Cooked three hours. They should be cooked the evening before serving and warmed up for breakfast in the morning. Eggs: Soft boiled or Poached. In some cases this should be given daily particularly if the child is poorly nourished, slow in walking and slow in teething. Meat: Scraped rare beef. This is an extremely valuable food at this period, in all cases where there is malnutrition or any symptoms of rickets. It is best prepared by broiling a thick steak over red hot coals until thoroughly heated through, then sliced long individually with a sharp knife and the juice and pulp scraped out with a table spoon. Spread this on bread or on a cracker with a little salt and allow the child to eat the rare beef. Broths: Chicken. Beef. Vegetable. These may be allowed at this time. GUIDE LESSONS. Vegetables: Spinach. Asparagus. Squash. Strained stewed tomatoes. Carrots. Mashed cauliflower. String beans. Peas. Baked potato, may be permitted. All of these vegetables with the exception of the potato are rich in the mineral salts and should not be neglected. Fruits: Oranges. Scraped apple. Stewed or baked apple. Stewed prunes. Stewed figs. Fresh bottled fruits are permissible. Milk. Desserts: Rice. Tapioca. Custards. Junket. Jello. amounts of ice cream. Small Bread: Graham. White. If the child is constipated, graham bread should be used exclusively. A small dish of stewed figs given before breakfast and before going to bed will usually suffice to overcome this constipation. Where the diet is well balanced constipation will not result. QUESTIONS. 1. When should the first teeth appear? 2. What is the appearance of the teeth the signal for? 3. Why should so much care be exercised in the choice of foods during the second year? 180 . 4. Why does the child experience difficulty in getting through the second summer? 5. What care should be exercised in the introduction of the solid foods? 6. What are the symptoms of an exclusive milk diet during the second year? (This can be found in the previous lesson). 7. What foods should be emphasized in a child that shows symptoms of rickets or scurvy? 8. How would you proceed to overcome constipation? HISTORY OF UTAH. The painstaking historian, Orson F. Whitney, and the Deseret News Publishing house, have united in contributing one of the most useful and handsome books ever put upon the local market, in the new one volume, Popular History of Utah. The history itself has practically every important fact treated briefly and vividly, yet without bias or prejudice. The information is tabulated and arranged in the best modern style which makes it a handy reference work to keep at the student's elbow. The mechanical part is unquestionably superior and pleasing to the eye.

We congratulate both author and publisher. As women we might have wished a chapter devoted to the very noble humanitarian work performed by the first Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Association, and the Primary Association of this Church. The club movement has also helped make history in various directions. There is a little mention of woman's suffrage which movement was but one of the many utilitarian efforts put forth by the intelligent organizers and state builders amongst the women of this state. However, it may be expecting too much for women to ask recognition at the hands of our men writers. Notwithstanding this little defect, we cheerfully recommend the book to all our societies and suggest that all ward societies should come into possession of one.

To Genealogical Class Leaders. Finding it impossible to secure the Baring-Gould Surname book, a Committee was appointed to prepare a Surname book of our own. It was hoped that this book could be published this winter, but the task is too great, the results too important for a hasty preparation. We therefore ask our students to do the best they can with our Guide lessons, and we hope to have the book all ready for next season's fuller and more complete study.