[Vol5 | December 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: How to Stimulate Discussion]

How to Stimulate Discussion. By Gweneth W. Gibbs.
This article will give hints to our class leaders although it was prepared for Sunday School workers.
The "lecture system," handed down to us from the darkness of the middle ages, is a method of teaching, which, in this age of pedagogical knowledge, teachers are ashamed of; yet, at the same time, most of us, if we but make confession, are only too guilty of falling into this ancient practice because it runs along a line of least resistance. May we learn to conquer this habit? May we always live up to our best pedagogical ideals? In other words, how can we get the children, not the teacher, to do the reciting?
As a first solution to our problem, let us take up the art of questioning to stimulate discussion. The most common practice among teachers is the question put to the children for the purpose of getting them to recall that which has been presented to them in the previous lesson or through the lesson now being given. Although it is not the most valuable kind of discussion, this type of question does stimulate discussion, and it has four values: First, it serves as a drill in memorization to help the children to learn the facts and truths of the lesson. Second, it serves as a test of the knowledge gained by children. Indeed, it is the only kind of an examination which the Sunday School teacher can give, in order to find out what facts and truths the children have learned. Third, it is an eye-opener for the children themselves to realize how much they know and do not know. Fourth, it serves to awaken mental activity and interest on the part of the children.
As an example: One Sunday morning our story was on the life of the beautiful Queen Esther. The attention and interest manifested on the part of the children were inspiring. What a thrill of successful teaching we experienced, only to be crushed when we asked the most attentive listener of the class to relate a part of it. To our surprise and disappointment his mind had been far from the subject in hand. What an opportunity we had lost! If we had awakened the minds of the children by a question here and there as the story had proceeded, or perhaps even better, if we had asked a question or two, to stimulate discussion at the beginning of our lesson, our sad experience probably would not have hap-
pened. The minds of the children would have been actively in harmony with ours, as our story was told.
Let us not forget that there are three different occasions throughout the lesson when questions may be asked for the purpose of stimulating interest and mental activity; at the beginning, as a preparation for the lesson, now and then as the lesson proceeds, and just before the climax, outcome or conclusion. This latter, just before the finish of the story, deals with another kind of question to stimulate discussion, which leads us to our next topic, indirect questions.
Besides the kind of discussion that is stimulated by questioning the children for the purpose of getting them to reproduce something that has been presented to them, there are other kinds of discussion of more value to the child, which can be stimulated by certain kinds of questions.
First, the discussion which is stimulated by questions which set the child to thinking out something for himself instead of merely reproducing what we have told him. This is by far a harder task for the teacher than the method first mentioned, and for this reason it is often neglected by too many of us. It aims at a higher principle of mental activity and calls for a higher order of intelligence. And here let us mention the value of the "how" and the "why" question to produce thought on the part of the children; whereas, a "when," "where," or "what" question nearly always calls forth mere memory discussion. For example, to one child we might put the question, "How do we know there is a heavenly Father?" To the next, "Do you think that is a good reason? If so, why? If you disagree, why?" And so on until each little mind is struggling to think how he knows there is a heavenly Father.
As another example, just before we reach the climax of our story, we may often, with good effect, ask the thought provoking question: "Now, children, how do you think this story must have ended?"
Second, the discussion which is stimulated by questions that call forth expressions of the children's own past experiences, bearing on the lesson subject. For instance, a certain lesson was that of Cain and Abel. At the close of our story we asked, "Why do you think Cain wanted to kill his brother who was so good and kind to him?" One little boy said it was Satan who tempted him. Seeing our opportunity we asked: "Do you think Abel, who was so good, could have been thus tempted?" Then from another we got the expression, "It might have been because Cain didn't keep busy working, not only with his hands, but busy thinking good thoughts too. I remember," he went on to say, "one day I was left alone at home. Now I didn't have anything much to do, and the first thing I knew I was thinking of some jam on the pantry shelf that I knew mother didn't want me to touch. If I

hadn't been idle I never should have thought of mischief. As it was I ate most of that jam, and got a scolding for it." Third, the discussion which is stimulated by questions that arouse the emotions of the child. If the emotions are touched, better results will follow, as the feelings are the main springs of action. Indeed, we cannot too often recall the great truth in the proverb, "Out of the heart are the issues of life." Fourth, the discussion stimulated by questions which lead a child in the presence of others to express his own ideals of conduct. This may take the form of testimony bearing. Or it m.ay take the form of passing judgment upon the righteousness or wrongfulness of some incident in the lesson. In fact, the most efifective sermon to a child is his own preaching. After telling the pathetic story of Uzziah, king over all the land, rewarded with blessing.s unnumbered, but who, at the end of fifty-two years of happiness entered the Holy Temple and took upon himself the privilege of burning the incense, alone the right of the priests, and who at the moment was striken with leprosy  if the teacher can get from just one child the expression, "I didn't partake of the sacrament in a right way this morning," she could consider herself well paid for her time that Sunday. Besides the art of questioning as a means of stimulating discussion, a second method of attempting a solution to our soulvexing problem is a combination of one of the best forms of the so-called "lecture system" and the questioning method, throug"h utilizing present-day problems in current events. Take the Saturday Evening News  or, perchance, the Sunday morning paper may do just as well  and glance over the new,s items, with the one object in view of finding some interesting current reports that may be used as illustrative material for the Sunday School lesson. It is surprising how many good things can readily be gleaned for this purpose. Suppose, for example, that free agency is the subject of the lesson; every page of the newspaper has interesting material from the police court news to the reply note of the entente allies in answer to the central powers. Or, again, if we are giving the lesson of Saul's experience with the witch of Endor, could we fail to note the weekly advertisements in nearly every Sunday morning newspaper of the modern witches in the form of palmists, spiritualists, and other fortune tellers?
A third general method of stimulating discussion is the oft-mentioned plan of special reports by pupils  a plan forever enjoined upon us, but, oh how few succeed with it. I have had partial success with this method in only two ways: First, by telephoning to the mother of the child to whom a lesson assignment has been made, asking her if she would kindly assist the child to prepare the part. Secondly, by asking the child to find out for the next Sunday, by questioning whom he may, the answer to some question which the children themselves are unable to answer.