[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: 553 Literature— John Greenleaf Whittier, Commoner Briant S Jacobs]
of /^^ra^fir^— America's  Literature  Comes  of  Age 
Lesson   26  -  John   Greenleaf  Whittier,   Commoner   (1807-1892) 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
(Textbook:  America's  Literature,  by  James  D.  Hart  and  Clarence  Gohdes 
Dryden  Press,  New  York,  pp.  400-413) 
For  Tuesday,  November  21,   1961 
Objective:  To  enter  more  fiillv  into  the  nineteenth  centurv  bv  blending  together 
Whittier's  three  voices,  as  a  Reformer,  Quaker,  and  a  New  Englander. 
A  LTHOUGH    not    one    of    the  the  moderate  course  of  approach  and 
greatest      American      authors,  appreciation  which,  in  our  present 
Whittier,  next  to  Longfellow,  was  study  of  Whittier,  it  may  be  well 
the  most  popular  nineteenth   cen-  to  follow. 
tury  poet,  and  today  remains  one 
of  the  most-quoted,  best-loved 
spokesmen  for  the  'Tarty  of  Se- 
curity."     (See    Lesson    17,    Relief 
For  those  who  wish  to  learn  more 
about  the  United  States  and  the 
spirit  of  man,  Whittier  deserves  a 
sympathetic    reading    and    hearing. 
Society  Magazine,  July  i960,  page  This  study  may  best  be  achieved  by 
485.)  ''Barefoot  Boy,"  "School-  attempting  to  become  his  con- 
days,"  "Maud  Muller"  and  "Barbara  temporaries.  And  the  best  approach 
Frietchie"  lie  almost  as  near  the  to  such  a  view  is  to  read  representa- 
American  collective  heart  and  mem-  tive  poems  from  the  three  major 
ory  as  do  "America"  and  apple  pie  phases  of  his  life  and  works.  But 
—  and  by  most  definers  and  defend-  before  we  experience  these  contrast- 
ers  of  the  contemporary  American  ing  voices  of  Whittier,  we  should 
conscience,  they  are  held  to  be  as  first  of  all  relate  them  to  each  other 
old-fashioned,  overly  worn,  and 
trite.  But  in  this  parallel  praising 
and  disparaging  of  Whittier  by  his 
modern  American  heirs,  time  has 
accentuated  the  differences.  Whit- 
tier must  always  represent  different 
things  to  different  people.  Some- 
where between  these  extremes  lies 
within    the    unifying   frame   of   his 
life. 
Whittier's  Life-Pattein 
Born  in  1807,  John  Greenleaf  was 
one  of  three  children  belonging  to 
farming  folk  who,  since  1647,  had 
tilled  the  same  family  soil  and  had

556 
RELIEF   SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1961 
A   Perry   Picture 
JOHN  GREENLEAF  WHITTIER 
never  worked  for  anyone  else  or 
done  anything  else.  Thus,  in  his 
origins  as  throughout  his  eighty-five 
years,  he  was  both  of  the  people  as 
well  as  for  them.  Although  turning 
the  good  family  earth,  milking,  and 
chopping,  and  sowing  and  reaping 
were  always  tedious  to  the  frail, 
spare  }'Oung  lad,  nevertheless,  from 
his  farming  as  from  his  cobbling 
years,  he  absorbed  the  idiom  and 
texture  and  belief  of  rural  New 
England  stock.  His  father,  a  Quak- 
er, deeply  read  theologian  and 
sternly  religious  man,  allowed  him- 
self to  be  deprived  of  his  son's  labor 
for  but  two  semesters  while  Green- 
leaf  attended  Haverhill  Academy, 
where  a  perceptive  teacher  intro- 
dueed  him  to  the  two  most  virile 
literary  influences  of  his  life:  "Bob- 
bie'' Burns  and  John  Milton. 
Soon  Greenleaf  began  writing  all 
over  his  slate  the  dancing  rhymes 
and  rhythms  which   raced  through 
his  mind,  but  though  his  classmates 
were  amused,  his  father  frowned  his 
disapproval,  since  'Toetry  will  not 
bring  him  bread."  Nevertheless, 
young  John  Greenleaf  began  pub- 
lishing numerous  poems  in  local 
newspapers  and  in  periodicals  edited 
by  William  Lloyd  Garrison,  who 
was  the  nucleus  of  the  abolitionists. 
(See  text,  page  184.)  In  1831,  the 
year  after  Whittier's  father  died, 
Garrison  founded  the  Liberator,  the 
leading  journal  of  radical  abolition 
and  reform  for  thirty-four  years.  He 
persuaded  the  promising  young 
Greenleaf  to  forsake  both  political 
aspirations  and  his  career  as  pioneer 
recorder  of  his  beloved  New  Eng- 
land's legend  and  local  color  to  give 
his  life  to  the  unselfish  and  unpop- 
ular moral  idealisms  of  the  aboli- 
tionist movement. 
Newly  disappointed  in  love,  but 
spurred  on  by  the  fervent  support 
of  his  mother  and  sister  Elizabeth, 
who,  to  their  deaths,  believed  both 
in  the  power  of  his  talents  and  in 
the  holy  rightness  of  his  cause, 
Whittier  soon  became  the  most 
militant  and  powerful  literarv  advo- 
cate for  the  abolitionists  in  the  Na- 
tion. Four  times  during  the  1830's 
he  was  mobbed,  once  barely  escaping 
with  his  life. 
During  the  passing  decades,  this 
crusading  Quaker  gradually  became 
more  listened  to  than  sneered  at, 
and  increasing  numbers  of  wealthy 
and  socially  prominent  women  and 
men  joined  with  the  original  labor- 
ing class  founders  in  making  the 
fight  against  slavery  too  large  an 
issue  to  be  ignored  by  either  side. 
Yet,  in  the  years  immediately  pre- 
ceding the  Civil  War,  as  the  success 
of  his  intense  crusade  became  more 
apparently  inevitable,  Whittier  grad-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
557 
uallv  severed  his  ties  with  the 
movement.  As  an  orthodox  Quaker 
he  had  ahvays  opposed  war  and 
bloodshed,  yet  the  great  national 
carnage  soon  to  follow  ironically 
brought  about  the  fulfillment  of  his 
abolitionist  hopes.  He  wrote  twenty- 
four  poems  and  hvmns  on  war 
themes,  one  of  which  was  framed  in 
thousands  of  northern  homes  as  well 
as  in  the  room  where  Lincoln's 
cabinet  met. 
When  the  Atlantic  Monthly  was 
established  in  1857,  Whittier  was 
invited  to  the  original  chartering 
dinner  along  with  the  great  literary 
men  of  the  day  (whom  he  felt 
looked  down  on  him  because  of  his 
humble  origin ) .  For  the  next  twelve 
years  he  \^as  a  principal  Atlantic 
contributor  of  religious  poems  and 
those  dealing  with  the  happier 
aspects  of  the  New  England  country- 
side. His  fame  increased  gradually, 
but  when  "Snow-Bound"  appeared 
in  1866,  its  immediate  success  netted 
him  $10,000  and,  to  his  death,  he 
remained  widely  read  and  well  loved. 
Never  having  married,  Whittier 
retired  to  Haverhill,  Amesbury,  and, 
finally,  to  his  lovely  estate  named 
Oak  Knoll  in  Danvers,  Massachus- 
etts. All  his  adult  life  he  had  had 
severe  chest  and  head  pains  which 
kept  him  from  reading  or  writing 
for  more  than  short  intervals  at  a 
time  and  prevented  him  from  at- 
tending almost  all  public  gatherings. 
Yet  he  was  never  morose  nor  self- 
pitying,  but,  to  the  end,  took  pride 
in  his  dress  and  appearance,  in  his 
friends  who  came  in  droves  to  see 
him,  and  in  the  success  of  his  writ- 
ings, which  he  re-edited  not  long 
before  his  death.  Scorched  by  early 
poverty,  he  lived  frugallv  and  wisely, 
leaving  an  estate  of  over  $125,000. 
When  he  died,  in  i8g2,  he  was 
buried  at  Amesburv,  the  sole  sur- 
vivor of  his  immediate  family. 
Whittier  the  Refoimer 
Bearer  of  Freedom's  holy  light, 
Breaker  of  Slaver\''s  chain  and  rod. 
The  foe  of  all  which  pains  the  sight, 
Or  wounds  the  generous  ear  of  God! 
— ''Democracy" 
Thus  Whittier  defined  Democ- 
racy \^hich,  coupled  with  his  deep 
religious  faith,  provided  the  motiva- 
tion for  his  lifelong  crusades  to  im- 
pro\e  humanity.  \\^ell  aware  of 
human  frailty,  he  still  believed  that 
Democracy  brings  man  nearer  truth 
and  justice  than  he  can  be  other- 
wise, and  also  that  ''What  avail  great 
talents  if  they  be  not  de\'Oted  to 
goodness?"  Realizing  from  first- 
hand knowledge  that  ''we  should  as 
soon  expect  to  find  piety  in  his 
Satanic  Generalship  as  independence 
in  a  country  newspaper  Editor/'  he 
used  the  periodicals  of  abolition  as 
mediums  through  which  he  attacked 
the  evils  of  his  day.  Long  before 
he  met  Garrison  he  was  instrumen- 
tal in  forming  a  Temperance  Society 
in  Haverhill,  and,  in  1828,  wrote 
"The  Drunkard  to  His  Bottle"  for 
the  Haverhill  Gazette,  the  second 
periodical  in  the  Nation  to  advo- 
cate total  abstinence.  He  wrote 
fiery  poems  praising  the  great  revo- 
lutionary heroes  of  the  century 
wherever  they  arose:  in  Britain, 
France,  Italy,  Greece,  Finland,  and 
Brazil.  Completely  repudiating  the 
pattern  of  the  past,  he  believed  in 
the  destiny  of  his  own  young  Na- 
tion, but  when  she  invaded  Mexico, 
he  felt  the  French  Reign  of  Terror 
no  worse  than  "the  slaughter  of 
women  and  children  in  the  bom- 
bardment of  Vera  Cruz."

558 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1961 
One  reason  this  earlier  Whittier 
has  been  forgotten  is  that  all,  save 
his  later  poems,  are  too  impassioned 
and  controversial  to  be  taught  in 
public  schools.  For  example,  in 
such  poems  as  'Tor  Righteousness' 
Sake,"  he  attacks  both  commercial- 
ism and  ''so-called"  religion: 
The  age  is  dull  and  mean.     Men  creep, 
Not  walk;  with  blood  too  pale  and  tame 
To  pay  the  debt  they  owe  to  shame; 
Buy  cheap,  sell  dear;  eat,  drink,  and  sleep 
Down-pillowed,  deaf  to  moaning  want; 
Pay  tithes  for  soul-insurance;  keep 
Six  days  to  Mammon,  one  to  Cant. 
—  (Lines  Inscribed  to  Friends  Under  Ar- 
rest for  Treason  Against  the  Slave 
Power ) 
Likewise,  in  "Moloch  in  State 
Street"  and  "Official  Piety,"  he 
indicts  the  pillars  of  society  for 
using  influence  and  piety  as  cloaks 
for  theft,  crime,  and  systematic  ex- 
ploitation of  the  lower  classes. 
But  it  was  as  a  pioneer  abolitionist 
that  he  found  his  true  niche  as  cru- 
sading idealist.  His  fondest  mem- 
ories centered  about  his  unselfish 
years  of  wielding  his  fiery  pen  that 
the  Negro  might  be  free.  'T  am  a 
man  and  not  a  verse-maker,"  he 
wrote  in  1883;  he  was  more  proud 
of  having  signed  the  first  Declara- 
tion of  Sentiments  at  the  first  con- 
vention of  the  Anti-Slavery  Society 
than  of  any  book  he  ever  wrote.  De- 
spite his  great  personal  sacrifice  for 
"the  cause"  in  years  of  underpaid 
overwork,  loss  of  friends,  literary 
career,  and  political  future,  he  could 
still  write  as  follows: 
For  myself  Abolition  has  been  its  own 
"exceeding  great  reward."  It  has  repaid 
every  sacrifice  of  time,  of  money,  of  repu- 
tation, of  health,  of  ease,  with  the  answer