[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 500 White House Conference on Aging Belle S. Spafford]
White  House  Conference  on  Aging 
President  Bdle  S.  Spafford 
IN  
January  1961,  the  first  White 
House  Conference  on  Aging  was 
called  by  the  President  of  the 
United  States  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  law  passed  by 
Congress  in  1958.  The  law  provided 
that  the  Conference  should  be 
planned  and  conducted  by  the  Sec- 
retary of  Health,  Education,  and 
Welfare  with  the  assistance  of  other 
departments  and  agencies  repre- 
sented on  the  Federal  Council  on 
Aging. 
The  purpose  of  the  Conference 
was  *'to  formulate  recommendations 
for  immediate  action  in  improving 
and  developing  programs  to  permit 
the  country  to  take  advantage  of  the 
experience  and  skills  of  the  older 
persons  in  our  population,  to  create 
conditions  which  will  better  enable 
them  to  meet  their  needs,  and  to 
further  research  on  aging." 
The  legislative  Act  providing  for 
the  Conference  gave  the  following 
information:  'The  number  of  per- 
sons forty-five  years  of  age  and 
older  in  our  population  has  in- 
creased from  approximately  thirteen 
and  one-half  million  in  1900  to 
forty-nine  and  one-half  million  in 
1957;  and  the  number  sixty-five 
years  of  age  and  over  from  approxi- 
mately three  million  in  1900  to 
almost  fifteen  million  at  the  present 
time,  and  is  expected  to  reach  twen- 
ty-one million  by  1975."  The  Act 
further  stated  that: 
.  .  .  outmoded  practices  in  the  employ- 
ment and  compulsory  premature  retire- 
ment of  middle-aged  and  older  persons  are 
deprixing    the    economy    of    their    much 
Page  504 
needed  experience,  skill,  and  energy  and, 
simultaneously,  depriving  many  middle- 
aged  and  older  persons  of  opportunity  for 
gainful  employment  and  an  adequate 
standard  of  living.  Many  older  persons 
do  not  have  adequate  financial  resources 
to  maintain  themselves  and  their  families 
as  independent  and  self-respecting  mem- 
bers of  their  communities,  to  obtain  the 
medical  and  rehabilitation  services  re- 
quired to  permit  them  to  function  as 
healthy,  useful  members  of  society,  and 
to  permit  them  to  enjoy  the  normal,  hu- 
man, social  contacts. 
Reference  was  made  to  our  failure 
to  provide  adequate  housing  for 
elderly  persons  at  costs  which  can 
be  met  by  them,  thus  forcing  many 
older  persons  to  live  under  condi- 
tions in  which  they  cannot  maintain 
decency  and  health,  or  continue  to 
participate  in  the  organized  life  of 
the  community.  Mention  was  made 
of  the  lack  of  suitable  facilities  and 
opportunities  in  which  middle-aged 
persons  can  learn  how  to  prepare 
for  the  later  years  of  life,  learn  new 
vocational  skills,  and  develop  and 
pursue  avocational  and  recreational 
interests.  This  is  driving  many  of 
our  older  persons  into  retirement 
shock,  premature  physical  and 
mental  deterioration,  and  loneliness 
and  isolation,  it  was  stated,  causing 
an  unnecessary  drain  on  the  health 
of  our  manpower. 
In  order  to  prevent  the  addi- 
tional years  of  life,  given  to  us  by 
our  scientific  development  and 
abundant  economy,  from  becoming 
a  prolonged  period  of  dying,  the 
statement  was  made  that  ''we  must 
step  up  research  on  physical,  psy- 
chological, and  sociological  factors

WHITE  HOUSE  CONFERENCE  ON  AGING 
505 
in  aging  and  in  diseases  common 
among  middle-aged  and  older  per- 
sons/' We  may  expect  the  aver- 
age length  of  life  and  the  number 
of  older  people  to  increase  still 
further.    We  must,  therefore 
.  ,  .  proceed  with  all  possible  speed  to 
correct  unfavorable  conditions  and  to  cre- 
ate a  social,  economic,  and  health  climate 
which  will  permit  our  middle-aged  and 
older  people  to  continue  to  lead  proud 
and  independent  lives  which  will  restore 
and  rehabilitate  many  of  them  to  useful 
and  dignified  positions  among  their  neigh- 
bors which  will  enhance  the  vigor  and 
vitality  of  the  communities  and  our  total 
economy;  and  which  will  prevent  further 
aggravation  of  their  problems  with  result- 
ing increased  social,  financial,  and  medical 
burdens. 
IN  planning  for  the  Conference, 
the  Honorable  Arthur  S.  Flem- 
ing, Secretary  of  Health,  Education, 
and  Welfare,  appointed  a  national 
advisory  committee  of  approximate- 
ly 150  persons  selected  from  many 
parts  of  the  Nation,  who  were 
knowledgeable  on  problems  of  the 
aged  and  on  programs  related  to  the 
adequate  care  of  the  aged.  This 
committee  was  to  determine  mat- 
ters to  be  considered  at  the  Con- 
ference, as  well  as  Conference  pro- 
cedures. The  Honorable  Robert  W. 
Kean  was  named  chairman  of  the 
committee.  Members  of  this  com- 
mittee, assigned  to  subcommittees, 
met  periodically  for  a  period  of 
more  than  one  year  in  preparation 
for  the  Conference. 
Since  it  was  recognized  that  most 
problems  can  best  be  solved  by 
action  at  the  state  and  local  levels, 
each  of  the  fifty  states  of  the  Union 
held,  prior  to  the  national  Confer- 
ence, a  state  conference  on  aging. 
These  state  conferences  aimed  to 
gather   factual    material    related    to 
the  aging;  they  defined  issues;  they 
formulated  recommendations  for 
meeting  needs  which  were  submit- 
ted to  the  White  House  Conference 
chairman. 
The  plans  for  the  White  House 
Conference  called  for  the  holding 
of  nine  separate  sections,  each  to 
deal  with  a  special  aspect  of  aging, 
as  follows:  Section  1— Population 
Trends  and  Social  and  Economic 
Implications;  Section  2— Health  and 
Medical  Care;  Section  3— Social 
Services;  Section  4— Housing;  Sec- 
tion 5— Education;  Section  6— The 
Role  and  Training  of  Professional 
Personnel;  Section  7— Free-Time 
Activities:  Recreation,  Voluntary 
Services,  Citizen  Participation;  Sec- 
tion 8— Religion;  Section  9— Med- 
ical and  Biological  Research  in 
Gerentology. 
Each  of  the  above  listed  sections 
conducted  an  orientation  session 
followed  by  work  groups.  In  the 
work  groups  the  recom.mendations 
of  the  respective  states  were  care- 
fully reviewed,  discussed,  and  out 
of  the  discussions  carefully  formu- 
lated recommendations  were  made 
for  presentation  to  the  Conference 
for  adoption.  A  statement  of  pol- 
icy was  also  prepared  by  each  sec- 
tion. 
Approximatelv  2,700  delegates 
attended  the  Conference.  There 
were  1,747  representatives  of  fifty- 
three  states  and  territories;  695  rep- 
resentatives of  308  national  organ- 
izations; 150  advisory  committee 
members;  111  consultants.  The  del- 
egates represented  a  very  good  cross- 
section  of  American  life.  Through- 
out the  Conference  there  was  the 
fullest  and  most  democratic  airing 
of  opinion.     Secretary  Fleming,  in

506 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1961 
referring    to    this,    said:    ''This    is 
America  at  its  best." 
Space  allotted  for  this  article  does 
not  allow  for  a  detailed  report  on 
all  the  extensive  recommendations 
of  the  Conference.  A  few  state- 
ments selected  from  the  vast  num- 
ber of  recommendations,  policy 
statements,  and  addresses  given  in 
plenary  sessions  may  indicate  the 
scope  of  the  discussions  and  a  few 
of  the  views  with  regard  to  how  the 
problems  of  the  aging  may  be  met. 
Health  and  Medical  Benefits 
The  Conference  approved  tying 
health  and  medical  benefits  to  So- 
cial Security.  A  minority  report 
was  included,  however.  This  aspect 
of  the  care  of  the  aged  was  perhaps 
the  most  hotly  debated  of  all  mat- 
ters considered. 
Rehabilitation 
Rehabilitation  was  referred  to  as 
the  greatest  hope  for  those  afflicted 
with,  and  disabled  by,  chronic  and 
degenerative  conditions  until  such 
time  as  specific  means  are  found  to 
prevent  and  cure  them.  It  was 
stated  that  rehabilitation  programs 
must  be  dynamic  and  total,  de- 
signed to  meet  the  physical,  emo- 
tional, social,  and  vocational  needs 
of  the  chronically  ill  and  disabled. 
It  was  the  opinion  that  vocational 
rehabilitation  services  throughout 
the  Nation  must  be  improved  and 
expanded  so  that  older  disabled  per- 
sons may  maintain  or  regain  their 
ability  to  work  and  secure  suitable 
employment.  It  was  also  felt  that 
qualified  teachers  must  be  provided 
and  well-structured  units  concerned 
with  the  teaching  or  rehabilitation 
principles  need  to  be  established  or 
expanded   in   schools   of   medicine, 
dentistry,  nursing,  and  departments 
of  psychology,  education,  and  other 
related  disciplines,  both  on  the 
graduate  and  undergraduate  levels. 
Persons  with  practical  knowledge 
were  felt  to  be  extremely  useful  in 
supplementing  the  services  of  pro- 
fessional workers  in  rehabilitation 
programs. 
Age  RetiTement  Piograms 
A  flexible  age  retirement  plan 
based  on  individual  productive 
capacity  was  favored  over  the  prac- 
tice of  industry  with  regard  to  fol- 
lowing an  arbitrary,  compulsory 
retirement  age  for  employees. 
Voluntary  Services 
The  life  of  the  Senior  Citizen  as 
an  individual  or  in  the  group  is 
filled  with  opportunity  for  volun- 
tary service  to  public  and  private 
projects  and  interests.  In  the  gen- 
eral pattern  of  social  change  affect- 
ing the  aging,  voluntary  services  of 
all  types  assume  increasing  posi- 
tions of  importance. 
The  Family  and  the  Aging 
The  maintenance  of  strong  fam- 
ily ties  is  fundamental  to  the  dig- 
nity of  aging  persons.  Every  ef- 
fort should  be  made  to  strengthen 
and  increase  understanding  among 
the  generations  and  the  develop- 
ment of  a  sense  of  responsibility  on 
the  part  of  all  members  of  the  fam- 
ily whether  they  are  living  together 
or  not.  ''If  grandparents,  parents, 
and  children  knew  their  proper 
roles  in  the  family  —  and  kept  them 
—there  would  be  little  need  for  the 
vast  number  of  social  programs 
that  keep  cropping  up,"  a  Phila- 
delphia psychiatrist  said.

WHITE  HOUSE  CONFERENCE  ON  AGING  507 
Social  Seivices  should  have  aroused  the  Nation  to 
In  planning  for  the  aging,  high  the  seriousness  of  the  problems  of 
priority  should  be  given  to  services  aging.  It  is  hoped  that  it  will 
which  will  enable  persons  to  con-  be  a  launching  platform  for  new, 
tinue  to  live  in  their  own  homes,  or  strengthened,  and  expanded  pro- 
will  make  it  possible  for  them  to  grams.  It  defined  new  goals  and 
return  to  their  families  or  to  inde-  made  recommendations  on  how  to 
pendent  living  when  feasible.  Com-  attain  them.  It  clarified  majority 
munities  should  provide  social  serv-  opinion  of  the  states  on  matters 
ices,  such  as  home  nursing,  home-  related  to  aging.  It  should  serve  as 
maker,  and  social  welfare  services.  a  basis  for  further  study.  It  is  hoped 
by  those  who  were  responsible  for 
Leisure  Activities  the  conference  that  the  specific 
''Intelligent  attitudes  toward  the  recommendations  made  at  the  Con- 
importance  and  values  of  meaning-  ference  will  be  put  into  action  by 
ful  leisure  for  enriched  living  at  the  states,  communities,  the  Fed- 
every  age  must  be  fostered,  so  that  eral  Government,  private  organiza- 
the  aged  who  withdraw  from  the  tions,  and  the  older  people  them- 
work  force  may  retire  to,  not  from,  selves,  all  to  the  end  that  the  ever- 
life."  increasing  number  of  our  aging 
The  question  has  been  asked  as  citizens  may  enjoy  happy,  produc- 
to  what  will  be  the  outcome  of  this  tive  lives  as  long  as  it  is  humanly 
great     Conference.       Certainly,     it  possible  for  them  to  do  so. 
[President  Spafford  served  as  a  member  of  the  National  Advisory  Committee  to  the 
White  House  Conference  on  Aging.  —  Ed.] 
ibven  in  Siu ence 
Mabel  Law  Atkinson 
Loneliness  is  an  old  man  alone — 
Long  past  fourscore,  the  venerable  ancient 
Lived  in  the  silence  of  solitude, 
Forty  years  of  loneliness, 
Forty  years  since  he  had  placed  his  Marie 
To  rest  beneath  the  great  pine  she  loved. 
Under  whose  sheltering  arms 
The  two  had  often  sat  together 
In  the  quietude  of  companionship. 
Compassion  stirred  the  apathetic  embers  of  my  heart: 
Kindled,  I  visited  him. 
"Lonely?"  He  echoed  my  question — 
His  eyes  lifted  to  mine  were  like  April  \  iolets 
Beneath  the  blossom-white  snow  of  his  hair; 
And  his  voice  held  the  lyrics  of  a  little  river 
Released  from  the  boundaries  of  winter — 
"No,  my  dear,  not  lonely, 
For  I  companion  \\ith  great  men,  kings  and  prophets- 
Today  the  psalmist  David  has  comforted  me.''