[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: FEATURES | Author: Wangsgaar]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Plotting Your Perennials Eva Willes Wangsgaard]
his  kindly  features.  The  years  that  had  welded  our  lives  together  had  also 
brought  us  the  power  to  divine  each  other's  thoughts.  He's  thinking,  now 
she  is  gone.    I  felt  a  lump  rise  in  my  throat. 
I  thought  of  the  years  that  this  home  had  housed  her  physical  pres- 
ence, and  how  every  word,  thought,  and  plan  had  included  her.  In  a  few 
days  the  movers  would  come,  and,  within  a  matter  of  hours,  the  material 
things  that  bespoke  her  presence  would  be  removed,  and  there  would  be 
little  left  that  bore  her  imprint,  but  her  picture  on  the  wall,  the  memory  of 
her  gay  laugh,  and  running  footsteps  on  the  stairs.  The  rest,  her  music, 
her  books,  her  pictures,  and  the  foolish  little  things,  such  as  the  china 
animal  collection,  and  the  furry  cats  upon  her  bed,  would  all  be  gone. 
Suddenly,  my  thoughts  turned  backwards,  through  the  many,  but  oh, 
so  short  years,  and  I  saw  the  young  edition  of  the  father  of  the  bride  kneel- 
ing beside  me,  as  we  said  our  vows.  I  thought  of  all  that  had  transpired 
within  the  years  that  followed.  What  devious  ways  had  brought  us  to  this 
hour.  What  joys  and  heartaches,  what  peace  and  turmoil  we  had  met 
along  the  way.  The  valleys  we  had  walked;  the  hilltops  we  had  climbed 
together!  And,  I  thought,  with  gratefulness,  that  the  hilltops  had  out- 
numbered all  the  others. 
Our  daughter  and  her  husband  would  walk  that  selfsame  way.  The 
roads  would  be  a  little  different,  but  they,  too,  would  have  their  valleys  and 
their  hilltops.  They  would  have  their  sun  and  shadows;  but  they  would 
walk,  as  we  had  done,  the  road  together  for  eternity. 
Involuntarily,  the  words  came,  from  my  heart.  'Tlease  grant,  I  pray, 
that  in  this  marriage,  too,  the  hilltops  may  outnumber  all  the  others!" 
Page  527

Q^cience  and  the  ^eily  (^lass 
Alice  Alorrey  Bailey 
T   ONG    before    Pasteur's    experi-  of  scientific  research.    This  benefits 
ments   in   the    i86o's   with  his  rather  than  replaces  home  canning 
''soups"    and    his     sterile     bottles,  projects  by  furnishing  such  helps  as 
housewives      learned      that      fruits  prepared    pectin    and    recipes   with 
packed    away    in    sugar,    honey,    or  exact  proportions  and  such  careful 
molasses  would  ''keep/'     Some  still  directions     that     the     most     inex-
