[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
White  House  Conference  on  Aging 
President  Bdle  S.  Spafford 
IN  
January  1961,  the  first  White 
House  Conference  on  Aging  was 
called  by  the  President  of  the 
United  States  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  the  law  passed  by 
Congress  in  1958.  The  law  provided 
that  the  Conference  should  be 
planned  and  conducted  by  the  Sec- 
retary of  Health,  Education,  and 
Welfare  with  the  assistance  of  other 
departments  and  agencies  repre- 
sented on  the  Federal  Council  on 
Aging. 
The  purpose  of  the  Conference 
was  *'to  formulate  recommendations 
for  immediate  action  in  improving 
and  developing  programs  to  permit 
the  country  to  take  advantage  of  the 
experience  and  skills  of  the  older 
persons  in  our  population,  to  create 
conditions  which  will  better  enable 
them  to  meet  their  needs,  and  to 
further  research  on  aging." 
The  legislative  Act  providing  for 
the  Conference  gave  the  following 
information:  'The  number  of  per- 
sons forty-five  years  of  age  and 
older  in  our  population  has  in- 
creased from  approximately  thirteen 
and  one-half  million  in  1900  to 
forty-nine  and  one-half  million  in 
1957;  and  the  number  sixty-five 
years  of  age  and  over  from  approxi- 
mately three  million  in  1900  to 
almost  fifteen  million  at  the  present 
time,  and  is  expected  to  reach  twen- 
ty-one million  by  1975."  The  Act 
further  stated  that: 
.  .  .  outmoded  practices  in  the  employ- 
ment and  compulsory  premature  retire- 
ment of  middle-aged  and  older  persons  are 
deprixing    the    economy    of    their    much 
Page  504 
needed  experience,  skill,  and  energy  and, 
simultaneously,  depriving  many  middle- 
aged  and  older  persons  of  opportunity  for 
gainful  employment  and  an  adequate 
standard  of  living.  Many  older  persons 
do  not  have  adequate  financial  resources 
to  maintain  themselves  and  their  families 
as  independent  and  self-respecting  mem- 
bers of  their  communities,  to  obtain  the 
medical  and  rehabilitation  services  re- 
quired to  permit  them  to  function  as 
healthy,  useful  members  of  society,  and 
to  permit  them  to  enjoy  the  normal,  hu- 
man, social  contacts. 
Reference  was  made  to  our  failure 
to  provide  adequate  housing  for 
elderly  persons  at  costs  which  can 
be  met  by  them,  thus  forcing  many 
older  persons  to  live  under  condi-
