[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Lesson | Title: 560 Social Science— Full Equality in the Gospel Plan Ariel S. Bailif 560 t, r T r]
Social  Science — The  Place  of  Woman  in  the 
Gospel  Plan 
THE  EMINENCE  OF  WOMAN 
Lesson  2  —  Full  Equality  in  the  Gospel  Plan 
"Woman  has  been  placed  by  the  side  of  man  —  not  behind  him  —  not  in  front  of 
him"  (Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe). Elder  Ariel  S.  BaUif 
For  Tuesday,  November  28,  1961 
Objective:  To  discover  the  true  significance  of  unity  in  the  marriage  covenant. 
T?ROM  the  review  of  the  scriptures      gave  to  woman  a  place  of  exception- 
in  Lesson  1,  we  have  observed     al  eminence.    The  importance  of  the 
that  in  the  plan  of  creation   God     responsibility    given     her    comple-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
561 
ments  the  assignment  given  to  man. 
Together,  and  only  together,  can  the 
full  realization  of  the  destiny  of  the 
human  family  be  achieved. 
Therefore,  equality  referred  to  in 
the  above  title  has  important  impli- 
cations and  needs  to  be  clearly  de- 
fined. Equality  means  the  charac- 
ter or  condition  of  being  equal. 
Equal  is  defined  as  exactly  the  same 
in  measure,  quantity,  number,  or 
degree.  The  definition  in  Webster's 
dictionary  goes  on  to  say:  "like  in 
value,  quality,  status  or  position; 
evenly  balanced  or  proportioned; 
having  competent  power,  abilities, 
or  means." 
Equal  in  Opportunities, 
Rights,  and  Privileges 
1 .  Man  Is  the  Head  of  the  Family 
by  Priesthood  Designation. 
In  our  previous  discussion  we 
found  that  God  gave  the  Priesthood 
to  Adam,  thus  designating  him  as 
his  mouthpiece  upon  the  earth.  At 
the  same  time,  Adam's  companion. 
Eve,  was  designated  as  the  mother 
of  men.  This  set  up  a  balance  and 
a  division  of  responsibility  which 
provided  a  base  for  sound  family 
organization.  The  Priesthood,  op- 
erating on  the  principles  of  love  and 
sympathetic  understanding,  has  for 
its  purpose  the  caring  for  the  tem- 
poral, intellectual,  and  spiritual  wel- 
fare of  each  member  of  the  familv. 
The  mother,  because  of  her  strategic 
position,  is  the  moving  force  in  the 
accomplishment  of  this  purpose. 
Man  has  held  the  position  of  head 
of  the  family  throughout  the  ages. 
Much  of  the  time  he  has  not  justi- 
fied this  position  in  terms  of  respect, 
consideration,  and  appreciation  for 
his  companion  and  the  children  in 
his  famih .    In  fact,  at  times  he  has 
exercised  unrighteous  dominion  over 
them. 
In  the  gospel  plan  the  Priesthood 
bearer  has  the  responsibility  of  being 
the  head  of  the  family.  The  bless- 
ings and  respect  that  this  position 
merits  can  be  justified  onlv  as  the 
man  honors  his  Priesthood  and  rec- 
ognizes the  value  and  significance  of 
his  co-partner  and  of  each  member 
of  his  family  by  providing  them  with 
full  opportunity  for  growth  and  de- 
velopment. This  is  the  equality  re- 
ferred to;  this  is  the  blessing  of  the 
gospel  plan. 
2.  Woman  Has  a  Major  Role  in 
the  Home. 
In  order  for  the  man  to  realize 
full  promise  of  success  in  his  admin- 
istration of  the  home,  it  is  necessary 
to  place  a  vital  responsibility  in  the 
hands  of  his  wife.  She  plays  a  ma- 
jor role  in  the  home,  having  under 
her  care  and  vigilance  each  member. 
While  babies  are  not  clay  and  can- 
not be  molded  as  such,  yet  they  are 
most  susceptible  to  the  stimulation 
they  receive  in  association  with 
others.  Mother's  constant  contact 
in  feeding,  comforting,  cleaning, 
training,  and  encouraging  each 
youngster,  places  the  mark  of  her 
influence  and  character  upon  the 
child  throughout  its  life.  This  stim- 
ulation is  not  only  on  the  phvsical 
level,  but  mental  and  spiritual 
stimulations  come  from  everv  act, 
every  decision,  and  almost  every 
thought  that  takes  place  in  the 
home. 
The  family's  success  necessitates 
team  action,  unity  of  purpose,  and  a 
full  recognition  of  the  value  and 
quality  of  both  mother  and  father. 
Thev  can  be  equal  in  the  influence 
they  exert  on  their  children,  if  they

562 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST   1961 
recognize  the  importance  of  each 
other's  position.  The  point  to  be 
noted  is  the  evenly  balanced  status 
of  father  and  mother. 
3.  Blessings  of  the  Priesthood  Are 
Joint  Values 
The  equality  referred  to  above  has 
no  thought  of  competitive  position 
of  mother  and  father,  but  rather  an 
emphasis  upon  the  effectiveness  of 
their  combined  efforts.  In  every- 
thing they  do  there  can  be  beneficial 
reflections  to  each  other  and  to  the 
family  members.  Where  the  man 
is  effective  in  his  calling  in  the 
Priesthood  he  brings  into  the  home 
the  light  of  revelation  and  inspira- 
tion for  solving  problems  for  indi- 
vidual members  and  for  the  family 
as  a  unit.  This  blessing  is  shared 
by  the  mother  v^hose  prime  interest 
is  the  welfare  of  the  children  and 
the  success  of  this  joint  venture  with 
her  husband. 
Whatever  is  done  by  Priesthood 
authority  in  the  home  must  reflect 
to  the  benefit  and  elevation  of  the 
father  and  mother.  Dr.  John  A. 
Widtsoe  makes  the  following  obser- 
vation: 
Woman  does  not  hold  the  Priesthood, 
but  she  is  a  partaker  of  the  blessings  of 
the  Priesthood.  That  is,  the  man  holds  the 
Priesthood,  performs  the  priestly  duties  of 
the  Church,  but  his  wife  enjoys  with  him 
every  other  privilege  derived  from  the  pos- 
session of  the  Priesthood.  This  is  made 
clear,  as  an  example,  in  the  Temple  service 
of  the  Church.  The  ordinances  of  the 
Temple  are  distinctly  of  Priesthood  charac- 
ter, yet  women  have  access  to  all  of  them, 
and  the  highest  blessings  of  the  Temple  are 
conferred  only  upon  a  man  and  his  wife 
jointly  (John  A.  Widtsoe,  Program  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
page  79). 
In  the  function  of  his  priestly 
office  in  the  Church,  in  whatever 
capacity,  the  wife  enjoys  the  bless- 
ings of  a  successful  partner  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  These  blessings 
come  to  her  from  her  help  and  en- 
couragement given  to  her  husband 
in  the  fulfillment  of  his  responsi- 
bility. In  failure  or  success  she 
shares  in  his  calling. 
The  work  of  the  Priesthood  is  to 
overcome  evil,  stimulate  righteous- 
ness, and  establish  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  the  earth.  So  in  this 
basic  unit,  the  family,  they  (the  man 
and  the  woman)  are  developing  a 
substantial  element  in  the  building 
of  the  kingdom. 
Family  Organization 
1.  Head  of  the  House 
The  ''head  of  the  house,''  implies 
many  responsibilities,  among  them 
the  providing  of  the  necessities  of 
life,  comforts,  love  and  considera- 
tion, wisdom,  counsel,  and  leader- 
ship. 
Even  with  the  finite  mind  of  man, 
it  is  possible  for  us  to  observe  the 
infinite  wisdom  of  God  in  setting 
up  the  family  pattern.  The  mother 
love  is  nearest  to  the  love  of  God 
of  any  expression  upon  this  earth. 
This  was  so  designed  to  protect  and 
secure  the  spirit  children  of  our 
Father,  for  each  one  is  precious  in 
his  sight.  The  true  love  of  man  for 
his  wife  should  reach  its  greatest 
heights  in  the  bearing  of  his  chil- 
dren. His  duty  and  expression  of 
love  come  in  providing  security, 
protection,  and  freedom  from  fears 
for  his  family. 
In  the  scriptures  we  read  of  the 
man  caring  for  his  flocks,  fishing, 
and  tilling  the  soil.  This  was  true 
in  Adam's  time  and  throughout  the 
testaments.  In  society,  generally,  it 
has  been  accepted  that  the  man  is

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
563 
the  provider.  God  made  man 
physically  strong  so  that  he  could 
earn  his  bread  by  the  sweat  of  his 
brow.  In  modern  revelation,  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  Sec.  83:2,  4: 
Women  have  claim  on  their  husbands 
for  their  maintenance,  until  their  husbands 
are  taken;  and  if  they  are  not  found  trans- 
gressors they  shall  have  fellowship  in  the 
church.  .  .  .  All  children  ha\e  claim  upon 
their  parents  for  their  maintenance  until 
they  are  of  age. 
Parents  are  not  onlv  responsible 
for  providing  ''bread/'  but  The  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  Section  68:25- 
28,  tells  us  thev  must  teach  the 
children,  before  they  arrive  at  eight 
years  of  age,  to  be  able  to  under- 
stand the  meaning  of  repentance,  to 
have  faith  in  Christ,  and  to  know 
the  purpose  of  baptism,  or  the  sins 
of  the  children  will  be  upon  the 
heads  of  the  parents. 
The  foundation  of  the  Priesthood 
power  or  authoritv  is  love.  Love 
demands  thoughtful  consideration 
of  others,  plus  the  responsibility  for 
their  well-being  and  individual  ex- 
pression. The  head  of  the  family, 
then,  in  our  societv,  must  be  able 
to  justify  his  calling  in  the  Priest- 
hood by  his  thoughtful  and  loving 
direction,  and  through  counsel  and 
patience  with  each  member  of  the 
family.  It  is  again  repeated  that  his 
measure  of  success  in  his  calling, 
both  as  a  father  and  as  an  elder  in 
Israel,  is  largely  in  the  success  he 
attains  with  the  members  of  his  own 
family. 
2.  Woman  —  Childbearer  and 
Rearer  of  Children,  Managing  Direc- 
tor of  the  Household. 
In  some  cultures  of  the  world 
women  have  had  to  do  heavy  manual 
work.  There  are  places  where 
women  feel  that  to  be  equal  with 
men  they  must  participate  in  the 
full  program  of  men's  activity.  In 
such  a  society  the  bearing  of  chil- 
dren is  of  secondary  importance.  As 
soon  as  the  baby  is  born  it  is  placed 
in  a  nursery  where  things  are  clean 
and  free  from  destructive  bacteria. 
Proper  food,  sunshine,  and  warm 
clothing  are  provided.  The  mother 
then  is  free  to  return  to  her  indus- 
trial job;  but  the  main  ingredients 
for  human  development,  character 
building,  and  the  proper  stimulation 
of  personality  are  lost.  That  is, 
mother  love  and  care  are  not  pres- 
ent. No  amount  of  technical  equip- 
ment or  trained  skill  can  successfully 
substitute  for  the  mother  love  which 
is  not  constantly  present  through  the 
years  of  growing  up. 
Woman's  great  mission  and  re- 
sponsibility have  been  and  continue 
to  be  the  bearing  of  children  and 
providing  the  little  bundles  of  pos- 
sibilities with  the  continual  care, 
training,  and  stimulation  that  only 
a  mother's  love  can  supply.  It  is 
true  that  mother  has  much  to  do 
physically  in  operating  her  home. 
But  in  making  her  home,  there  is  a 
different  relationship  for  her  with 
her  family,  a  different  orientation 
than  when  working  as  a  man's  equal 
on  the  industrial  production  line. 
The  very  nature  of  her  physical 
make-up  puts  her  in  a  different  cate- 
gorv  than  man.  Her  biological  abili- 
ties to  nurture  and  give  birth  to 
children,  place  her  in  a  position  of 
distinctive  difference  from,  and  yet 
dependence  upon,  her  mate.  This 
same  ability  gives  her  a  unique  posi- 
tion in  the  family.  Yet  neither  the 
man  nor  the  woman  is  complete 
without  the  other. 
The  mother  becomes  the  manag- 
ing director  of  the  home,  not  by

564 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— AUGUST    1961 
inheritance  nor  by  eustom,  but  by 
sheer  necessity.  Rearing  a  family 
involves  selection  and  preparation  of 
food;  the  adequate  care  of  the  li\ing 
quarters,  and  the  direction  and  regu- 
lation of  the  goings  and  comings  of 
the  members  in  the  household. 
Mother  must  administer  wiselv  the 
income  of  the  home  to  make  it  cover 
the  dailv  expenses  as  well  as  pro\ide 
a  reserve  to  meet  the  inevitable 
emergencies.  She  is,  in  the  truest 
sense,  the  managing  director  of  the 
successful  home. 
3.  Partnership 
Once  again  we  must  repeat  the 
important  idea  that  the  home  and 
family  are  a  joint  \enture.  Neither 
father  nor  mother  detracts  from  the 
importance  of  the  other.  Thev  are 
not  contesting  nor  vying  for  status 
higher  than  the  other.  Thev  work 
together  with  talents,  qualifications, 
and  abilities  that  complement  each 
other. 
The  Family,  a  Co-operative 
Enterprise 
We  have  been  emphasizing  the 
fact  that  the  family  is  the  result  of 
the  united  efforts  of  people  who  are 
equal  in  the  sense  of  being  "evenly 
balanced  or  proportioned;  having 
competent  powers,  abilities  or 
means."  Surely  the  varied  responsi- 
bilities of  the  father  and  mother 
evidence  again  the  wisdom  of  God. 
1.  Co-Partners  With  God 
in  Child  Creation 
There  is  a  divinely  ordained 
division  of  labor  and  responsibility 
in  maintaining,  stimulating,  and  pro- 
tecting the  family  unit.  God,  him- 
self, is  a  co-partner  in  the  family 
unit  in  that  he  created  the  spirits  of 
the  children  of  men.    He  entrusted 
them  to  the  earthly  parents  for  the 
growth  and  de\elopment  of  earth 
life.  He  wants  these  children  back 
in  his  kingdom,  to  dwell  in  his  pres- 
ence. Thev  are  all  precious  in  his 
sight.  Therefore,  he  has  given  every 
assistance  possible  to  set  up  an 
effective  family  unit,  in  order  that 
each  child  mav  ha\'e  the  needed  help 
for  its  de\'elopmcnt  and  direction 
back  to  his  presence.  In  this  ar- 
rangement the  obligation  and  re- 
sponsibility of  father  and  mother 
never  end,  short  of  the  accomplish- 
ment of  the  Lord's  plan. 
Summary 
As  a  summarv  of  the  lessons  on 
the  ''Eminence  of  Woman,"  may 
we  point  out  that,  like  man,  woman 
is  a  creation  of  God.  She  was  given 
as  a  helpmate  of  man  in  a  partner- 
ship responsibilitv  for  subduing  and 
populating  the  earth.  She  is  the 
mother  of  men;  the  mother  of  the 
human  familv.  Onh'  w  ith  her  can 
man  obtain  the  highest  exaltation 
in  the  celestial  kingdom.  Truly,  she 
is  the  leading  lady  in  the  drama  of 
life.  She  holds  equal  responsibili- 
ties for  the  accomplishment  of  the 
purpose  of  life  ''to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man." 
Woman's  eminence  in  the  pro- 
gram of  the  Church  cannot  be 
questioned.  She  is  not  a  silent  part- 
ner, not  a  puppet,  but  an  equal 
partner  with  equal  responsibilities 
for  the  success  of  the  program. 
Thoughts  for  Discussion 
1.  \\1iat  is  the  difference  between  the 
terms  eqnal  and  equality? 
2.  Does  eqiiaht\-  in  marriage  imply  equal 
responsibilities  for  the  success  or  failure  of 
the  marriage? 
3.  In  what  \\a\s  are  the  blessings  of  the 
Priesthood  of  joint  value?