[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Make a | Author: Thulin]
Stuff them partly before attaching to the body, then stuff Page 530 MAKE A PLAY PAL 531 solid and stitch in place. If you want to paint the features on the face with textile paints, do it before stuffing. Big button eycs are more appealing, however. Sew them on after stuffing. If you embroider the features on, be sure to use washable yarn. Buy a small mop and sew it on the head for hair. You can use yarn, but this takes quite a bit. 4. Dress the doll in one of your own child's discarded outfits, and don't overlook your small son! He would love a male version of "Flossie." Just dress the doll in his polo shirt and jeans, or in a pair of his pajamas. 6. To wash in an automatic machine, fold the doll and put her in a mesh laundry bag. Let it agitate for just a few minutes in rich, active suds. She can be dried in a dryer, or flopped over the clothesline. -<iP She Glory of Light Fredrika Clinch I' was the evening of the 15th of March. I stood gazing at the mist that hung on the mountain peaks. I watched the sunset color spread throughout the sky. The storm clouds that had started to gather were full of color. The light gradually faded into darkness. The wind started to blow, and the trees trembled in the darkness and the lightning danced across the sky, followed by the sound of thunder. 'There came one loud clap of thunder and the rain poured. 'The howling wind screamed in the darkness to the tune of the rain that beat against the house. It seemed as if the world was made up of thunder, lightning, wind, and darkness. To calm my nerves, I decided to read, and then the lights went out. Now I was in complete darkness without electricity to ease the darkness. Hearing the storm rage, fear moved in. I could not move freely in the house because I kept stumbling into things. I crept into bed, but couldn't sleep. I lay there tense, staring into the darkness. 'The longer I lay there the more fear crept in. Then I remembered I had forgotten to pray. I got out of bed and knelt to pray. After praying for God to give me strength so I would no longer fear the storm, I quoted, "I will fear no evil: for thou art with mie, For a long time afterward it seemed as if the dark fury of the elements would never pass, but I had no fear. 'Then there came the calm. The wind subsided and the rain stopped, and there was a peaceful stillness. The blackness of the night started to fade into daylight. When I pulled up the shade, I saw the sky filled with delicate colors from the rising sun. The leaves that had whipped about in last mght's storm rustled gently in the morning brecze. 'The birds were singing a welcome to the rising sun. I also rejoiced in the returning of the light and for a peaceful world after last night's storm. I don't know how long I stood there, taking in the beauty and peace before I sank on my knees and bowed my head and thanked God for the wonderful day... "I will fear no evil: for thou art with me." Yulia Lottie Bach s Hobbies Five (Decorative and useful ULIA Lottie Brim Bach, Oakley, Idaho, makcs quilts from her own designs and does the quilting herself. The patchwork quilt (at the left) is Mrs. Bach's original design and is called "The Sunburst." Another of her designs (not shown in the picture ) is called "The Road to the World's Fair." One of her most unique pieces of handwork is a floral map of the United States (upper right). The map is made of satecn, and the flowers are embroidered in full color to represent each State of the Union. Mrs. Bach has made many decorative pillows, some of them in her own designs. Also, she makes braided and hooked rugs. Crochets, and embroiders. She is a dev oted student of the scriptures and commits many passages to memory. She has memorized many poems and readings, and has a rich and varied repertoire of recitations. Mrs. Bach is mother to six, grandmother to six, and great-grandmother to twelve. She is active in the Church and attends Sunday School regularly and goes to Relief Socicty meetings whenever transportation is available for her attendance. She has a "large and lovely" circle of dear friends whom she remembers with gifts of handwork. Mare, Love Is Enough CuapTrer 8—( Conclusion) Mabel Harmer ENIEL made almost daily calls upon Miss _ Blayney while she was _ recovering from the fall. 'Together, they talked over plans for the library. The parlor was to be left just as it was, to be used for cultural meetings of any groups. The dining room, on the opposite side, would be the main checking out room of the library, with additional book-shelf space in the original library room of the house itself. The school board had rented a truck to go over to Denver and pick up the books from Geniel's home. Also, they had an appropriate sign made to be placed above the front entrance. "You have no idea what this will mean to the children of this town," Geniel remarked to Miss Blayney one afternoon. "Some of them are simply starved for good books." "I think perhaps I do," she replied. "I used to read everything I could get my hands on when I was a child, and it wasn't very much. I always went through the school reader the first week I had it. 'Then I was bored for the rest of the term. I even read old almanacs." Thank goodness, thought Geniel. Otherwise, she wouldn't have been so sympathetic to this cause. By the time she was completely well again, Miss Blayney had_perfected her plans for moving to California. Geniel had rather hoped that she would leave before they took over the rooms for the library, but that was asking too much. Miss Blayney had to oversee operations, help select a librarian, and preside over a formal opening. The mothers of the PTA served punch and cookies, and it was a highly successful affair. "I've never secn Miss Blayney quite so much in her element in all the years I've been here," observed Christine. "In fact, she was having such a good time that I shouldn't be surprised to see her stay on for good." "She is keeping the upstair rooms intact for her lifetime just in case she does get homesick and wants to return. We can't blame her for that. It's sometimes hard for older people to adjust to a new place and way of living," Geniel added. Miss Blayney seemed to be very much afraid of just that but, after considerable hesitation, she finally departed for California to give the new life a try, at least. "Spring was the wrong time for her to leave here,' said Marva dubiously. "But she may just love it down there. We can hope so, at any rate." "It really doesn't matter too much if she does come back," said Geniel. "We don't have any use for those upstair rooms so far, anyway. And maybe she'd pay the heating and light bills if she was there." "That's the girl!" cheered Marva. "If there isn't a silver lining, you grab some scraps and make one." Page 533 534 HEY were just sitting down to dinner when Johnny came bursting in without even waiting for anyone to answer his knock. He promptly pulled up a chair and joined them at the table. "Hi, Ellie!" he called. "Bring on an extra plate. This is practically your last chance to have me honor your board." "Your money has come!" said Geniel, beaming. "Good for you!" "Yes, Ma'am." "And now you are leaving for school," added Christine. "No, Ma'am." "You're not!' Marva practically shouted. "Why not? I thought that you had been waiting for this most of your short adult life." "Take it easy, little one,' he countered. "So I have. But something else has come up." "There wasn't as much money in the estate as you had hoped?" Christine suggested quietly. "Wrong. There was more. 'That's what makes the difference. If there had been just what we expected, it would have taken care of Mom and I would have been free to work my way in school. But there was more. So now there is enough for me to go on a mission first, before I get all tangled up in books." "Oh, Johnny, how perfectly wonderful!" exclaimed Marva. Then she paused for a moment and added seriously, "What a shame you aren't engaged! Look what an opportunity it would be for someone to write you a "Dear John' letter." "True," he agreed. "But, then, a fellow can't have everything." "Where would you like to go?" asked Christine. "To Japan and 'Tahiti and Finland," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1961 "Come now, make up your mind," said Marva. "In your own words, a fellow can't have everything." "Seriously, then, it doesn't matter much. I have a sort of yen to go to Denmark because my grandfather came from there. But, since I don't speak the language, that wouldn't make much difference." "You'll do well anywhere you go," declared Geniel, "and we're all very happy for you." "Thanks. I knew you would be." "I know one thing," declared Marva. "This old town certainly won't be the same with you and Miss Blayney gone. I've a good notion to pull out myself. Maybe I could get a job up in Alaska. How about you, Geniel? The contracts will be coming out in a week or so." "I haven't decided. It isn't a good idea to change too often, as you know. And I'd like to see the library get a good start." "On the other hand, it isn't a good idea to stay too long either, as I have," said Christine. "It's so easy to get into a rut." "But you've made such a nice rut," said Johnny. "I, for one, am glad that I had a chance to travel along with you in it." "Thanks," smiled Christine, "that's one of the compensations — to see boys like you that are so full of mischief turn out to be the very foundations of society." ATER that night, Geniel, thinking of Christine's words, remembered that the compensation of helping students make good hadn't been enough. 'That she had missed having boys of her own because the love that had been offered hadn't LOVE IS ENOUGH seemed romantic enough at the time. What about the teaching contracts that would be out soon? Should she stay here for another year — or would it be wiser to go back home again? On the whole, Geniel felt that she wanted to stay, either for the library or just because it was the thing she ought to do. The long white envelope from the school board came a few days later, together with the weekly letters from home and from Ernest. She opened the home letter first. There was the usual chatty news, and she began to think with pleasure of the time, just a couple of months from now, when she would be sharing in their daily pleasures. Ernest's letter had special news. "I have managed to raise the money for a second store out in one of the better suburb areas," he wrote. "It will be a struggle to keep up with it for the next few years, but with care and reasonable good luck, I am sure that I can make a go of it." She put the letter down thoughtfully. It didn't take any second sight to read between the lines. For the next few years Ernest's plans would include nothing beyond paying for the store. After that — well, he was ambitious. He would start buying other stores. He really ought to have a heart to heart talk with Christine, she mused.