[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: 520 Notes from the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
QJrom    I  Lear  and  C/c 
ar 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  wonder- 
ful. I  truly  love  to  read  every  word  in  it. 
Everything  gives  me  uplifting  thoughts, 
whether  it  be  spiritual,  through  the  won- 
derful lessons,  stories,  and  poems,  or  the 
practical  ad\  ice  on  everyday  living.  I  very 
much  enjoyed  the  "International  Singing 
Mothers  Concert  Tour"  (by  President 
Belle  S.  Spafford,  in  May).  The  Magazine 
speaks  to  the  mothers  in  the  Lord's 
Church  and  helps  them  in  their  special 
duties.  And  what  does  it  mean  for  me,  a 
young  girl?  It  strengthens  my  testimony 
that  the  Relief  Society  is  truly  an  inspired 
organization  that  helps  me  to  keep  my 
thoughts  clean  and  influences  my  daily 
actions  for  the  better. 
— Hildegard  Teuscher 
Hamburg,  Germany 
We  here  in  our  branch  and  district 
treasure  the  knowledge  we  have  of  the 
gospel,  but  are  ever  eager  to  learn  more 
from  day  to  day.  Personally,  I  find  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine  a  treasure  chest 
of  delightful  reading.  The  lessons  given 
through  the  medium  of  the  Magazine  are 
a  sheer  joy.  I  am  a  registered  nurse  still 
practicing  my  profession.  Nevertheless,  I 
do  think  the  nursing  course  as  given  in 
the  Magazine  (1960-61)  is  excellent. 
What  a  wealth  of  information  these  les- 
sons contain  for  every  housewife  and 
mother  —  and  father,  too,  for  I  know 
several  fathers  who  read  The  Rehef  Society 
Magazine  with  extreme  interest. 
— Frances  A.  Katene 
Porirua,  New  Zealand 
For  quite  awhile  I  have  been  recei\'ing 
copies  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
from  my  dear  friend  Mrs.  F.  Flicks  of 
Raymond,  Alberta,  Canada,  I  have  been 
very  interested  in  these  Magazines,  espec- 
ially in  the  poetry.  I  can  assure  you  I 
have  found  comfort  in  the  readings,  as  I 
live  alone,  and  the  different  messages  seem 
to  have  been  particularly  sent  to  me  to 
give  me  courage  to  carry  on.  These  mes- 
sages travel  far. 
— Mrs.  S.  A.  Thornton 
Salford 
Lancaster,  England 
Page  498 
I  would  like  a  subscription  to  our  won- 
derful Magazine  entered  in  the  name  of 
my  daughter  Mrs.  Marcia  White.  She  is 
celebrating  her  first  wedding  anni\ersary 
this  month,  and  I  can't  think  of  anything 
finer  to  give  her  than  a  subscription  to  the 
Magazine.  My  own  dear  mother  gave  me 
my  first  subscription  twenty-three  years 
ago,  the  first  year  I  was  married.  I  would 
like  to  make  it  a  family  tradition.  I 
especially  enjoy  the  lovely  covers  in  color, 
and  I  always  read  the  poetry  first.  I  en- 
joyed the  frontispiece  poem  in  the  April 
issue  "Too  Swift  the  Curve,"  by  Eva 
Willes  Wangsgaard.  It  is  delightful. 
— Mrs.  MaDonna  N.  Lemon 
Roosevelt,  Utah 
During  a  grief  and  pain-filled  period 
three  years  ago,  a  very  dear  friend  Mrs. 
Arthur  Martin  of  Salina,  Utah,  started 
sending  me  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
It  was  very  new  and  strange  to  me.  At 
first,  the  little  stories  and  beautiful  cover 
designs  attracted  my  interest  —  then  the 
recipes  and  sewing  sections.  Each  time 
I  picked  up  the  Magazine  I  found  new  and 
varied  things  of  interest.  I  began  reading 
the  lessons,  trying  to  understand  them, 
but,  without  a  reference  book  to  use  as  a 
guide,  I  was  a  bit  lost.  Finally,  the  past 
summer,  two  elders  from  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  came  to 
my  door.  I  obtained  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. Since  then  the  lessons  in  the 
Magazine  have  become  more  clarified.  I 
have  read  The  Book  of  Mormon  from 
cover  to  cover  and  am  still  enjoying  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine. 
— IVIrs.  Wallace  Jaka 
Ottawa,  Illinois 
Our  ward  has  a  wonderful  mother,  Mrs. 
Frances  Kolarik.  She  doesn't  know  me 
very  well,  and  yet  she  has  given  me  a  sub- 
scription to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
as  a  gift  for  two  years.  Now  this  little 
Magazine  gi\es  me  uplift  and  comfort  in 
my  spiritual  life.  It  also  gives  me  faith  in 
the  future  and  in  the  spirit  of  our  home. 
— Terttu  Voskressensky 
Los  Angeles,  California

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly  Publication   of   the   Relief   Society   of   The   Church   of  Jesus    Christ   of   Latter-day   Saints 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle   S.   Spafford   
-         President 
Marianne  C.  Sharp  .  _  .  .  -  -         First  Counselor 
Louise   W.   Madsen  _  _  _  -  -  Second   Counselor 
Hulda  Parker  _  -  -  -  _  Secretary-Treasurer 
Anna  B.   Hart  Christine  H.  Robinson       Annie  M.  Ellsworth  Fanny  S.  Kienitz 
Edith   S.    Elliott  Alberta  H.   Christensen      Mary  R.  Young  Elizabeth  B.  Winters 
Florence    J.   Madsen        Mildred  B.  Eyring  Mary   V.    Cameron  LaRue  H.  Rosell 
Leone  G.  Layton  Charlotte  A.   Larsen  Afton  W.   Hunt  Jennie  R.  Scott 
Blanche  B.   Stoddard     Edith  P.  Backman  Wealtha  S.  Mendenhall        Alice  L.  Wilkinson 
Evon  W.  Peterson  Winniefred  S.  Pearle  M.  Olsen  LaPriel  S.  Bunker 
Aleine  M.   Young  Manwaring  Elsa  T.  Peterson  Irene  W.  Buehner 
Josie  B.  Bay  Elna  P.  Haymond  Irene  B.   Woodford 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Editor  -_---------  -         Marianne  C.  Sharp 
Associate  Editor  ._-_---._-  Vesta  P.  Crawford
