[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Robinson]
[Visiting Teacher Messages— "I Will Give Unto You a Pattern in All „, Thmgs" Christine H. Robinson]
Visiting  cJeacher    It iessages — 
Truths  to  Live  By  From  The  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
Message  34  —  "I  VV'ill  Give  Unto  You  a   Pattern   in  All  Things" 
(D  &  C  52:14). 
ChTistine  H.  Robinson 
For  Tuesday,  No\eml:>CT  7,  1961 
Objecti^'e:     To  emphasize  the  fact  that  the  Sa\ior,  through  his  life  and  through 
his  gospel,  has  set  the  pattern  for  us  to  follow. 
/^NE  of  the  beautiful  character- 
istics of  our  Lord  and  Savior's 
gospel  is  that  he  requires  nothing  of 
us  which  he  himself  has  not  done. 
He  has  told  us,  ''Behold  I  am  the 
light;  I  have  set  an  example  for  you" 
(3  Nephi  18:16).  Throughout  his 
ministrv,  he  pleaded  with  his  dis- 
ciples and  with  us  to  ''Come  follow 
me." 
Before  he  began  preaching  the 
gospel  he  was  baptized  "to  fulfill 
all  righteousness"  (Mt.  3:15).  He 
set  the  pattern  in  resisting  tempta- 
tion when  he  submitted  himself  to 
the  sorest  temptations  in  which 
Satan  offered  him  food,  great  world- 
ly power,  and  immense  riches.  To 
all  of  these  the  Savior's  reply  was, 
"Get  thee  hence,  Satan"  (Mt.  4:10) . 
During  his  ministrv  the  Savior  set 
the  pattern  in  perfection,  humilitv, 
love,  faith,  service,  prayer,  sacrifice, 
steadfastness,  mercy,  forgiveness, 
and  all  of  the  character  traits  which 
have  come  to  be  known  as  Christian 
virtues. 
There  are  many  beautiful  passages 
in  the  scriptures  in  which  these  vir- 
tues are  exemplified  and  taught;  for 
example,  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect, 
even  as  your  Father  which  is  in  heav- 
en is  perfect"  (Mt.  5:48). 
In  respect  to  perfection,  we  can- 
Page  552 
not  hope  to  be  as  perfect  in  all 
things  as  our  Father  in  heaven,  yet, 
this  ideal  must  be  attainable,  other- 
wise the  Savior  would  not  have  so 
commanded  us.  We  are  approach- 
ing perfection  as  long  as  we  are 
striving  toward  it.  We  can  be  per- 
fect in  many  things  in  our  lives, 
such  as  in  fasting  and  in  many  other 
ways. 
In  respect  to  prayer  the  Savior  set 
the  pattern,  "As  I  have  prayed 
among  you  even  so  shall  ye  pray  ..." 
(3  Nephi  18:16).  He  instructed  us 
to  pray  often  and  gave  us  the  Lord's 
prayer  as  the  ideal  pattern. 
On  love,  which  was  probably  the 
central  pattern  of  the  Savior's  life, 
he  said  to  his  apostles,  "As  the 
Father  hath  loved  me,  so  have  I 
loved  you:  continue  ye  in  my  love" 
(John  15:9).  The  Lord  said  that 
our  lo\'e  should  be  all-comprehen- 
sive; not  only  should  we  love  those 
who  love  us,  but  also  we  should  love 
our  enemies.     (See  Mt.  5:44.) 
Every  pattern  of  virtuous  and 
purposeful  living  was  exemplified 
and  taught  by  the  Savior.  His  gos- 
pel and  the  example  he  set  have 
brought  comfort  and  hope,  strength 
and  purpose  to  all  who  will  accept 
and  apply  his  teachings.  The  pat- 
tern he  set  has  caused  countless  in-