[Vol48 | August 1961 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes from the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
General  Secretary-Treasurer  Hulda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  goxcrning  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook  oi  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Nora  L.   A.   Lefrandt  ; 
HOLLAND  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONVENTION 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Christine  Bals,  organist;  Hendrina  \\\  Sont, 
visiting  teacher  message  leader;  Eleonora  van  der  Put,  chorister. 
Second  row,  kneeling,  left  to  right:  Wya  Caster,  social  science  class  leader;  Fawn 
W.  Volker,  President,  Netherlands  Mission  Relief  Society,  a  visitor. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Johanna  S.  Frolich,  Work  Director  Counselor;  Geertruida 
E.  van  Wisee,  theology  class  leader;  Louis  F.  C.  Frolich,  High  Council  Advisor;  Coun- 
selor Louise  W.  Madsen  of  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society;  Nora  L.  A.  Lefrandt, 
President,  Holland  Stake  Relief  Society;  Elizabeth  B.  Overduin,  Education  Counselor; 
Johanna  \an  Leeuwen,  Secretary-Treasurer;  Wilhelmina  T.  Paay,  work  meeting  leader; 
Johanna  F.  Verburg,  literature  class  leader. 
Sister  Lefrandt  reports:  ''Attending  the  first  Relief  Society  Conference  in  the 
newly  organized  Holland  Stake  in  the  Hague  was  really  an  experience.  \\'e  were  so 
thankful  to  have  help  and  instructions  from  Sister  Louise  W.  Madsen,  Second  Coun- 
selor in  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society.  Some  sisters  traveled  hours  and 
hours  by  train  to  attend  this  convention.  It  was  an  upbuilding  and  inspiring  meeting 
and  helped  the  sisters  grow  up  in  stake  work  and  make  them  stake-minded.  We  are 
looking  forward  to  the  stake  Relief  Society  Convention  next  year." 
Poae  539