[Vol7 | December 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions]

Guide Lesson Suggestions LESSON I. THEOLOGY AND TESTIMONY. (First Week in January.) SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND DEAD. (Revelation.) The theological lesson will take up a study in comparative religion. The founders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints came out from various protestant religions. They were somewhat familiar, therefore, with the beliefs, forms, and creeds of the churches of the world from which they came. Comparatively few present-day members of our Church are acquainted with the faith and creeds of other religions. Strangers who imagine that plural marriage is the only difference between the doctrines of the Latter-day Saints and those of other sects, know very little about "Mormonism," so-called, and it is feared that some of our people, born and brought up in the Church, know less about the differences between our faith and the fathers of other sects than does the Christian world at large. It is well to begin these lessons with the assertion that the principles advanced in the lessons and taught by the prophet Joseph Smith, has since his time entered into the very life and religion of all Christian sects. Germs of these truths exist and have existed in every religion. Christian, Jewish and Pagan. It was the fulness of the truth which was lost in the great apostacy. When the full light of truth was revealed to the world, men at first rejected and spurned that light, but the very fact that it had come into the world permeated their worn creeds and gradually influenced the minds of people and ministers alike. For that reason we ask our students to consider and consult present-day ministers of the gospel and present their modern ideas on these subjects as well as those ancient creeds which have and do still remain the bulwark of all the churches. We shall later present the foundation creed of all modern religions which is found in the thirty-nine articles of faith, accepted by Catholics, modified by the Reformers, but which is still the accepted standard of faith of all modern sects and creeds. Then the student may discover sects. established wherein "Mormonism" differs from these long 
 To discover a truth through the process of mental study, through association of ideas, or through a flash of sudden thought, is what we term inspiration. Revelation, pure and simple, is truth divinely and directly communicated to man. With the startling revelation which the prophet received in the grove of Palmyra one hundred years ago, came several new divinely revealed truths, or we might sav, correct angles on old truths. The first revelation was the fact that revelation had not ceased. All of the sects of the day without exception, Jewish and Christian, maintained that the canon of scripture was full and that the Bible was the sole guide left to men upon the earth. It was understood, of course, that this might always be supplemented by inspirational thought. But men, both ministers and laymen, quoted the last four verses of the "Book of Revelation" to substantiate this position:"If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book." The following is taken from: The Westminster Confession of Faith, A. D. 1647. Found in the book, "Creeds of Christendom," and accepted by all orthodox churches today, written by Schaff, vol. . 1. Although the light of nature, and the works of creation and providence, do so far manifest the goodness, wisdom, and power of God, as to leave men inexcusable;  yet are they not sufficient to give that knowledge of God, and of his will, which is necessary unto salvation;  therefore it pleased the Lord, at sundry times, and in divers manners, to reveal himself, and to declare his will unto his church;  and afterwards, for the better preserving and propagating of the truth, and for the more sure establishment and comfort of the church against the corruption of the flesh, and the malice of Satan and of the world, to commit the same wholly unto writing;  which maketh the holy scripture to be most necessary;  those former ways of God's revealing his will unto his people being now ceased. IV.- The authority of the holy scripture, for which it ought to be believed and obeyed, dependeth not upon the testimony of any man or church, but wholly upon God (who is truth itself), the author thereof;  and therefore it Is to be received, because it is the word of God." We present here the modernized article on revelation from the "Westminster Confession of Faith," arranged by Henry Van Dyke, Moderator. General Assembly, 1902. Article II. of Revelation. "We believe that God is revealed in nature, in history, and in the heart of man;  that he has made gracious and clearer revelations of himself to men of God who spoke as they were moved by the Holy Spirit;  and that Jesus Christ, the Word made Flesh, is the brightness of the Father's glory and the express image of his person. We gratefully receive the Holy Scriptures, given by inspiration, to be the faithful record of God's gracious revelations and the sure witness to Christ, as the Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and life." It will thus be seen that orthodox Christian ministers today maintain that the Bible is the sole source of revelation. The modern chatechism of the Christian church puts it thus: The alone-sufficiency and all sufficing of the Bible, as a revelation of the divine character and will, and of the gospel of grace by which we are saved;  and a rule of faith and practice. The prophet Joseph Smith had several vonderful revelations in the grove that spring day, but the most marvelous one was that revelation had not ceased with the closing of the Bible Hds. It was upon the fact of his new revelation hisas persecution that tion rested. The prophet sums up the situafollows: "Some few days after I had this vision, I happened to be in company with one of the Methodist preachers who was very active in the before-mentioned religious excitement, and conversing with him upon the subject of religion, I took occasion to give him an account of the vision which I had had. I was greatly surprised at his behavior: he treated my communication not only lightly, but with great contempt, saying it was all of the devil;  that there was no such thing as visions or revelations in these days;  that all such things had ceased with the apostles, and that there would never be any more of them." (History of the Church, vol. I.) A quarter of a century later, 1848, the devil began his revelations to the Fox sisters, in Hydeville, Wayne county. New York. Rapping, table tipping, and hypnotic trances began with these so called "clairvoyants." Gradually the false revelations have increased in frequency and popularity until today some of our greatest scientists, notably Sir William Crookes and Sir Oliver Lodge, in England, with Professor Charles Richet. in France, and Professor Morselli, in Italy, have convinced themselves and many other people of the supernatural character of modern "revelation." Even so great a scientist and so sane a thinker as Thomas Edison has begtm a series of experiments to communicate with the dead scientifically and with humanly prepared instruments. Today when our missionaries go out into the world they meet with very little ridicule when they speak of revelation as a part of our religious faith. So great has the leavening power of this gospel been on that point that few men, even scientists, presume to deny the possibility of revelation. They do, however, treat contemptuously or skeptically the idea that the Father and the Son appeared to the prophet Joseph Smith in the grove one century ago. Revelation in the form of mental suggestion, imaginative hallucinations, or conceiving truth by a flash of the mind, everybody is ready to admit;  inspiration is candidly accepted and everybody talks glibly about this one or that one having the "vision" of this or that business or cause. While many are also having false "revela- 
 tions" today;  magazines deal with all classes of medium stories, and theaters open their doors to plays founded entirely on the supernatural appearances of spirits from the other side. In the "Return of Peter Grimm," presented by David Warfield, and in Maeterlinck's "Bluebird," the idea of revelation takes poeXip form, but is none-the-less, an admitted possibility in modern life. In the midst of this modern confusing visionary experience, our elders and students must set up a standard, or rather they must rest their claims upon the standard erected by our Father in Heaven by which the false and true revelation can be judged. That standard is the authority of the Priesthood duly organized in the Church of Christ as we shall see in later lessons. We must admit, always, that new revelation may be received at any time by any person. The key to divine revelation, however, is always held by the Priesthood and each man is subject to those who preside over him. Revelation for the conduct of the Church will be received only by the president of the Church;  revelations or inspiration for the conduct of ward affairs may be received, if necessary, by the bishop of that ward, always subject to unity with the presiding authority. Each man and woman is entitled to receive revelation, or inspiration, concerning his own business, but no man may rightly receive revelations concerning another man's business. (See October "Magazine," Genealogical lesson, page 598. Brigham Young sermon extract.) The Church received a revelation through Brigham Young (see Sec. 136), appropriate to the time and conditions. President John Taylor received one also fitted to his time, and President Joseph F. Smith had his glorious vision, printed in our "Magazine," December, 1918. QUESTIONS. 1. Why should the light of truth permeate all men when it is once revealed into the world? 2. How have our present day ministers of the gospel been influenced by the truth concerning revelation taught by the prophet Joseph Smith? 3. What is revelation? 4. Name some truths revealed in the grove at Palmyra, to the prophet Joseph Smith? 5. What is the canon of scripture? 6. Quote the last four verses of the "Book of Revelation?" 7. Why should the preacher be angry with the prophet? 8. Who were the Fox sisters? 9. Quote the Westminster Confession of Faith, if possible, or such portion as found in this lesson. 10. What can you say as to true and false revelation? 11. Who has the right to receive revelation for the Church, and why? Note: Students and class leaders should consult converts to the Church regarding their former beliefs concerning revelation. It might be well also to interview ministers of other denominations so as to be fair in our estimate of their attitude on the subject of revelation, as well as to read encyclopedias and religious histories so as to ascertain the true belief of those not of our faith. Notice to Genealogical Committees, Both Stake and Ward. In the recent convention held by the Genealogical Society of Utah, it was decided that the Relief Society Genealogical workers should continue their activity in arranging excursions to the various temples, only where they are simply and wholly Relief Society excursions. If the Priesthood are included in these excursions it would be better for such excursion to be arranged by the genealogical committees, which are composed of three brethren from the Priesthood quorum, with two Relief Society women who are familiar with genealogical work and study. The Relief Societies also are to carry on the Annual day activity, reporting the same as usual in our blanks. The theological lessons this year may also be continued under these committees if thought best by the presidents of the stakes, as the lessons will deal with principles connected with salvation for the living and redemption for the dead. Do not slacken your efforts, sisters, but hold