Work and Business. Second Week in September. LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in September. Realizing the fact that some of our sisters have felt discouraged concerning the somewhat difficult and technical lessons given on Surnames for the past two years; and realizing also that others have felt almost justified in setting aside these lessons for the more attractive and really essential work which we are now doing for the Red Cross, the Genealogical Committee of the General Board sent a letter of inquiry to President Anthon H. Lund and General Board of the Genealogical Society of Utah, asking their opinion concerning our genealogical studies for next year. Apostle Joseph F. Smith, Jr., answered our letter, in behalf of the Board. Read the following impressive letter, sisters, and resume your studies with renewed zeal and determination to let nothing prevent us from the glorious work which we have undertaken to redeem the dead without which this people would be rejected: communication. The Genealogical Society of Utah, Historian's Office, 49 E. South Temple St. Sister Susa Young Gates, and members of the Genealogical Committee, General Board of the Relief Society, Dear Sister: Answering your letter of the 14th inst., in behalf and at the suggestion of President Lund and Board of Directors of the Genealogical Society of Utah, I will say that we are very greatly pleased with your labors in instructing the sisters of the Relief Society, in matters pertaining to genealogy and fully appreciate the great work that has been accomplished through your organization. We feel that it would be a deplorable thing should you, for any cause, discontinue the work in this direction. For we consider 
 the work in the interest of the salvation of the dead, (and that of course embraces the research work in genealogy and the knowledge of compiling records,) as the most important labor with which we have to do. We therefore pray you that your efforts do not slacken, for we hope to see the spirit of temple work and record making grow, until it shall find a permanent place in the hearts and lives of all the Latter-day Saints. Again expressing our appreciation, and praying for your continuous success, I remain, Very Respectfully your Brother, (Signed) Joseph F. Smith, Jr., In behalf of the Board. SURNAME BOOK. 1. The Universal Appeal of Genealogy. (1) To the individual. (b) To the family. (c) To the race. 2. Its Vital Necessity to the Latter-day Saints. (a) Impossible to redeem unknown progenitors. (b) Regular system in the study of ancestry. (c) The evolution of the surname in the history of the family and the race. 3. Racial History an Adjunct to Surname Study. (a) The place of birth constitutes nationality. (b) Nations grow out of each other. (c) All peoples merge finally in the three sons of Noah. (d) It is important for Saints to know how and where their tribes and races met and mingled if they are to become saviors upon Mount Zion. 4. The Need of a Surname Book. (a) No printed surname books are now on the market. (b) Our own book. SUGGESTIVE NOTES TO ASSIST CLASS LEADERS. Why should we study surnames? Because genealogy lies at the root of salvation for the dead, and surname history lies at the root of genealogy. 1. It is interesting to each individual to know about himself. (a) One's own origin and beginnings.