EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. August, 1918. No. 8. THE RETURN OF THE JEWS. No people on the earth, with the exception of the Present Jews themselves, have more cause for rejoicing Condition of and see more clearly the hand of the Lord in the Jerusalem, redemption of Jerusalem from the oppression of the Gentile Turk, than do the Latter-day Saints. Our own promises, prophecies and glorious future would be impossible of fulfilment without the redemption of Jerusalem and the return of the Jews to that land. How the Prophet Joseph Smith and Apostle Orson Hyde must rejoice in the heavens over the present condition in Jerusalem! Elder Hyde was called upon a mission by the Dedication Prophet to go to Jerusalem and dedicate that of the land upon the Mount of Olives, for the opening Holy Land, up of this last dispensation for the Jews. In Elder Hyde's report to the Twelve, dated at Trieste, January 2, 1842, he says: It was by political power and influence that the Jewish nation was broken down and her subjects dispersed abroad, and it will be by political power and influence that they will be gathered and built up;" and further, "that England is destined, in the wisdom and economy of heaven, to stretch forth the arm of political power and advance in the front ranks of this glorious enterprise." 
 Again, on page 21, in the prayer that was offered by Brother Hyde on the Mount of Olives, on the 24th of October, 1841, you will find the statement that he had gone there for this purpose  "to dedicate and consecrate this land for the gathering together of Judah's scattered remnants, according to the predictions of the holy prophets, for the building up of Jerusalem again, after it has been trodden down by the Gentiles so long, and for rearing a temple in honor to Thy name." On the same page, in the prayer, is this utterance: "Let that nation or that people who shall take an active part in behalf of Abraham's children, and in the rising up of Jerusalem, find favor in thy sight. Let not their enemies prevail against them, neither let pestilence nor famine overcome them, but let the glory of Israel overshadow them and the power of the Highest overthrow of those whothem." protect There take the also a prayer for the other is side. Later. President George A. Smith, Presiding Prayer. Jent Lorenzo Snow and our honored Eliza R. Snow, with a party, went back to Jerusalem and again offered prayer upon the Mount of Olives. While in very recent times our beloved PresPresident Lund ident Anthon H. Lund also visited the Holy on Mt. of Olives. Land and again prayed upon the Mount of Olives. The heart thrills as we read in the daily The Day press accounts of crowding Jewish battallions of Promise led by Jewish officers, going out from England and the United States in the armies of the Allies, to Judea and Mesopotamia; of Jewish gold shed in countless showers over this war of restoration; of companies of Jewish agriculturists and engineers following in the soldiers' wake; of Jewish hopes to rebuild their age-long expected temple once again on Mount Zion! All this belongs of right to Judah and to them, and through them to us, as we are of Ephraim. That great and glorious day of promise sung of by our Jewish convert Alexander Neibaur has come at last, and the Prince of Peace will soon reign over Israel and all the tribes of earth. God speed the happy day! Guide Lessons.