LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Semi-Monthly Meeting of Sep. 16,
1899, held in the 14th ward hall, opened
by singing “Come let us anew. Prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Come, O Thou King of kings.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	President Horne referred to a letter she
had received from Sister L. D. Alder in
England. She said the sisters there longed
for the day when they could come to Zion.
Thought it was sorrowful to see how little
the blessings bestowed upon us are appre-
ciated. The promise of the Lord willthe
not be fulfilled to us unless we keep
commandments He has given. Spoke of
the Word of Wisdom, and the wonderful
blessings we were to receive by observing
it. Referred to the wars, and how peace is
being taken from the earth in the fulfilling
of prophecy. Spoke upon the law of tith-
ing and the necessity of every man, woman
and child having their names upon the
tithing list. Said we should not do as
ancient Israel did, and rob God in tithes and
offerings. We are prospered and blessed in
every way, and do not appreciate the bless-
ings. Felt all would be able to have a bet-
ter spirit at home if we would attend to our
meetings.
	Sister Jane James spoke in tongues and
it was interpreted.
	Sister Martha Barrow bore a good testi-
mony.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said she
thought the sisters could meet together and
bring the spirit of God with them; we can
take it home with us, or wherever we go,
and be benefiting each other. Was glad
she was acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph, his wife Emma and his brothers
and sisters; she knew he was a prophet of
God. Said she wanted to keep her record
clean and keep all the commandments of
God.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she had
been greatly blessed. Referred to her trip
to Summit Co., and said that the sisters
there enjoyed a visit from the sisters here,
and how they wished to come and visit the
Temple. Exhorted all to be honest with
each other and with the Lord. Thought it
a privilege to pay tithing.
	Sister Martha A. Morris sang “Redeemer
of Israel,” and a sister in the congregation
bore her testimony.
	Sister Dakin spoke of her trials, and how
she was trying to feel “Thy will, not mine,
be done,” and believed she was learning
the lesson.
	Sister Witdsoe spoke of how the Lord had
blessed her in days that are passed; how
she had received visions and dreams for her
benefit. Alluded to the watch-care of our
Heavenly Father.
	Sister Sarah Bateman felt thankful that
the Lord had lengthened her days, and that
she was privileged to work in the Temple.
She was the only one on either her father’s
or mother’s side to do Temple work.
	Sister Almeda S. Young alluded to
the teachings of Prophet Lorenzo Snow,
that in paying our tithing the earth would
be consecrated for our sake.
	Sister Horne said those who do not pay
their tithes and offerings, this land cannot
be a Zion unto them.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Prayer by President M. I.
Horne.
