		GENERAL CONFERENCE.

    The Semi-Annual Conference of the
Church, held during this month, was one
of great interest and had a very large attend-
ance. The weather was particularly fine,
and President Lorenzo Snow opened the
conference on the morning of the 6th of
October, with a voice as clear and resonant
as when a young man. The speaker
seemed to have an unusual flow of the
Spirit of his calling in the holy priesthood.
There are very few men at his age who
could make themselves heard in that great
Tabernacle. Other speakers were eloquent
and earnest in carrying out the counsel
given by the President; the law of conse-
cration and the law of tithing were ex-
plained and expounded, paragraphs were
read in relation to these subjects from the
Doctrine and Covenants, also the Millennial
Star, and much good instruction was given
by President Snow, his counselors and the
Apostles. The music throughout the
meetings of the conference was of an ex-
alted character, the singing at times par-
ticularly partaking of a divine power. This
was very marked on Sunday afternoon,
when the choir rendered the favorite hymn
of the Latter-day Saints, “O, my Father,”
which invariably touches a tender chord
and awakens the most sacred emotions in
the hearts of those who listen.
    The authorities of the Church were pre-
sented to the assembly and sustained by
unanimous vote of the multitude, including
the officers of all organizations auxiliary
thereto, the Relief Society, the Sunday
School, the Y. L. M. I. A. and the Primary
Association.
    An over-flow meeting was held simul-
taneously with that in the Tabernacle,
where the same good spirit prevailed, and
the speakers were equally blest with a por-
tion of the Holy Spirit. The people cannot
but be impressed with the declaration of
President Snow, that the Lord manifested to
him that he should teach the people to observe
the law of tithing; and it must be a great
consolation to those that have been neg-
lectful of this law that the Lord, through
President Snow, has said He will forgive
the Latter-day Saints for this past negli-
gence, if in the future they will observe
this law, but He will not look with forbear-
ance upon further negligence in keeping
this law.
    President Snow closed his remarks upon
this subject on Saturday morning in the
following words:
    “The time has now come when the Lord

[Column 2]
is ready to bestow upon us his choicest
blessings. We are not to contend with our
enemies. All mankind are our brethren
and sisters, and we are not to seek to de-
stroy them. If those who are now con-
tending against us only knew what we
know, they would cease to contend against
us; and sometime they will know.”

