[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.
			SANPETE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held at Mt. Pleasant, September 8, 1899,
President M. A. Hyde presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Opening
prayer by Elder Edward Cliff. Singing,
“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire.”
	President Hyde in her opening remarks
said we had arrived at a period when the
work was progressing marvelously. Re-
ferred to the death of Joseph Smith, and
the transfiguration of Brigham Young
when the mantle of the prophet fell upon
him. Referred to the strange spirits that
are abroad in the land to lead away the un-
wary, and the great necessity of the Saints
living near unto the Lord and seeking for
the spirit of discernment, that they may be
able to distinguish truth from error.
	President M. F. C. Morrison represented
the sisters of the Relief Society in Mt.
Pleasant as doing a good work. The peo-
ple were very liberal in contributing to the
wants of the poor.
	Mary A. Frantzen said: “The sisters
of Spring City are improving in attendance
at the meetings and are performing all the
duties required of them.”
	Freedom was represented by President
Libbie Simonson; Manti south ward, by
Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker; Manti
north ward, by President Alvira L. Cox;
Fayette represented by letter; Ephraim,
north and south wards, by Stake Secretary
Maria Willardson.
	All these branches were reported as being
in good condition.
	President M. A. Hyde related an incident
of healing through faith and prayer.
	Brother Reddick Allred made instructive
remarks, and President Stena Graham rep-
resented Milburn very favorably.
	Brother Edward Cliff eulogized the work
of the Relief Society, as represented in the
reports.
	Counselor A. L. Cox gave an account of
her recent visit through the different
wards throughout the Stake, accompanied
by Sister Shoemaker. Reported a wonder-
ful improvement during the past year.
Dwelt upon the blessings to be obtained by
perfect obedience to the law of tithing; also
spoke on the signs of the times.
	President Hyde delivered a kindly mes-
sage to the sisters from President Zina D.
H. Young.
	Singing, “O God, our help in ages
past.” Benediction by Brother Reddick
Allred.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “How firm
a foundation.” Opening prayer by Bishop
Lund. Singing, “Guide us O, Thou Great
Jehovah.”
	Moroni was represented by Kirstine M.
Jensen.
	President M. A. Hyde announced the
arrival of Sister E. B. Wells, from Salt
Lake City, who then addressed the confer-
ence. She gave a graphic and interesting
description of her recent visit to London
and the labor performed by the Inter-
national Council. The speaker was elo-
quent over the Herculean labors performed
by the Countess of Aberdeen in the interest
of the Council, and in showing social
courtesies to the visiting delegates, includ-
ing the visit to Queen Victoria and Wind-
sor Castle. She felt that the work the sis
ters had done in the Councils, both the

[Column 2]
National and International, had been good
in correcting wrong impressions and allay-
ing prejudice. She felt to eulogize the
work of the Relief Society in all the world.
Thought that we as a people had reason to
be proud of this organization. Urged upon
the young women the necessity of identify-
ing themselves with the society, that they
may be prepared for the duties and re-
sponsibilities which await them. Thought
that those who had known the Prophet,
should testify of the divinity of his mission
to the youth of Zion. Referred to the
building of a house in Salt Lake City for
the use and benefit of the Relief Society. 
	Counselor A. L. Cox gave notice con-
cerning Dr. Romania B. Pratt’s class in
obstetrics and nursing, urged the sisters to
attend; also dwelt upon the necessity of
sustaining the Exponent.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “Do what is right.” Benediction
by Brother Reddick Allred.
	A special meeting was held in the eve-
ning, which was largely attended. The
meeting was held in the ladies’ new hall,
which is neatly furnished and reflects much
credit on the taste and energy of the good
sisters of Mt. Pleasant.
				A. L. COX, Cor. Sec.


