		THE FIRST STATE FAIR.

	The Deseret Agricultural and Manu-
facturing Society has this year given solid
evidence of enterprise and hard work in
carefully preparing and manipulating most
successfully the first State Fair, which
opened in the Exposition Building and
grounds in this city, on Monday, October
2, at 2 p. m.
	There was a very large crowd of
people present at the opening exercises.
Held’s band discoursed fine music, and
there were seated on the stand, Presidents
Lorenzo Snow and George Q. Cannon, with
several of the Apostles; President Winder,
of the D. A. and M. Society; Secretary
Hammond and some other State officials
and directors of the society who had been
active in the Fair work.
	President Winder called the assembly to
order, and introduced Father Kielly who
offered an appropriate prayer of thanks-
giving and gratitude to God for His bless-
ings and mercies to the people of this
State, acknowledging in fervent earnest-
ness His divine love and wisdom.
	Secretary Hammond made a brief speech
in which he stated that the last words
Gov. Wells said before leaving for the East
to welcome the nation’s heroes, was an ex-
pression of regret at not being able to be
present at the opening of the Fair. The
speaker was proud to welcome the people
of Utah to the State Fair, and made some
happy remarks and suggestions suited to
the occasion. 

[Column 2]
	President Winder stated clearly some
pertinent facts in relation to the history of
Fairs in Utah, past and present, and thanked
the Great Giver of all good for being able
to enjoy the distinction of being among the
promoters of the first State Exposition in
Utah; and after a few more words of greet-
ing, he declared the Fair formerly opened.
	To attempt in detail any description of
the exhibit would be quite impossible in
our columns, but we can briefly express
pleasure and delight that the showing was
so creditable as a whole, and in many par-
ticulars excellent. The woman’s depart-
ment made a good display of fine needle-
work, lace, embroidery and elaborate fancy
work of various kinds. The silk exhibit
was especially good, though we cannot
itemize, yet every one must see that there
is in this industry a potent factor of future
wealth for Utah. Mrs. Margaret A. Caine
with cocoons and silk in all its preparatory
stages, and its final development in dress
goods, etc., and Mrs. Hugh Dougall with
her practical methods and results, and her
fine and elegant pillow lace of silk, made
one anxious to push the silk industry for-
ward more effectually.
	The educational showing was excellent,
and speaks well for the future of the chil-
dren of our new State along these lines.
	There were some good specimens of
painting and coloring on canvas and china
that showed distinct talent in this direction,
a few were particularly good. Perhaps
there is too little encouragement given in
this line to induce those who have gifts,
talents and inclination in this direction to
devote time and care to make finished artis-
tic work on canvas. The china is much
more mechanical and requires less skill and
painstaking.
	There are many things one would like to
mention, but just now the daily papers
have given considerable space to the ex-
hibits. However, we cannot but admire
the persistency and diligence which
the lady directors, Mrs. Bamberger and
Mrs. Fox and their assistants, have shown
in their untiring work to make the best dis-
play possible in the Woman’s Department.
Let us hope that greater energy and effort
may be made by the people another year, to
bring together the best products of the
State along all lines of art and education, as
a stimulus to greater industry, enterprise
and culture.
	President Winder and the secretary,
Hon. S. W. Sears, who have spared no
pains and, in fact, the entire board of
directors, are to be congratulated on the
success of the first Fair in the new State.


