[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	On the 25th day Mr. Pratt and myself
went on horseback to the village opposite;
had a delightful ride. I was charmed with
the scenery as we rode on the banks: the
tall ito trees overshadowing us, some of the
branches extending more than fifty feet,
forming a complete shade. It was low
water and the beach was covered with a
variety of shells. We reached the village
about 4 o’clock p. m.; distance, fifteen
miles. The native friends gave us a
reception, set food before us, and I do not
remember ever having enjoyed a meal
more.
	That night there was a severe gale of
wind on the sea; the waves roared like
thunder. We were alarmed for the safety
of a ship which we knew was lying in the
harbor at Mataura. We spent the evening
in telling interesting stories about America.
The people were greatly amused with my
description of the camps crossing the plains;
of the herds of buffalos, and all, to them,
wonderful things. They praised me for
being able in their tongue to say so much
intelligibly. The name of the brother who
entertained us was “Ruitora,” which
means in English “three nights.” He s a
wise man, very desirous of gaining light
and knowledge.
	Monday 26 we started home. It was
high tide, and in some places the water
was very deep on the beach. A view of
the sea was grand! Far off, near the reef,
the waters were a clear, bright color of
blue and green intermingled. The reflec-
tion of the sun upon it gave it a spangled
appearance, as though ten thousand dia-
monds were glittering there. Ah,
hought I, your beauty displays itself to 

[Column 2]
he eye, but your threatening voice warns
us that death is concealed beneath your
billows!
	When we reached home we found that
the vessel of whose danger we had fears,
had been driven on the rocks; many men
were engaged in getting her off. The trees
near the house had been stripped of their
verdure and the ground was covered with
foliage. It was the brig Ann, Captain
Harrington from Tahiti. He brought a
quantity of goods, a little damaged, of
which, in exchange for trade, I obtained
one hundred and twenty-four yards of
cloth. Although we are placed here with
no salary, and forbidden by the French
government to demand anything of the peo-
ple, yet the Lord provides for us; all our
wants are provided for. The missionaries
can go to the fields and shoot wild fowl and
ducks about, and the tarrow patches are
free. So the poor Elders can sustain them-
selves and teach the people, not for hire, but
looking for a reward with the ancient Apos-
tles, who preached the Gospel without
purse or scrip.
	We have three little girls in our family
teaching them the English language. It
is really an agreeable task; to discover their
powers of mind and their aptness to learn,
fully compensates us for our labor.
	When these children are first taken from 
their homes, they are extremely wild. Very
soon, however, they become domesticated.
It is amusing to see them try to imitate the
white children. They have most melodious
voices, which seem to be a redeeming ac-
complishment. The grown people are
nearly all fond of reading. The old chief
who waits on us is often heard in his sleep-
ing apartment till a late hour in the night
reading his Bible. Could they have books
printed in their own language, on which to
devote their great leisure, how much they
might be improved. Few indeed they
have except their Bibles and hymn books,
and precious treasures they are to the poor,
honest souls who know so little of the
world. Occasionally for the benefit of the
missionary children, we have a discourse in
our own language. At such times we all
feel edified and comforted. The natives
listen attentively, but not a word do they
understand.
	August 17, a native brother and sister
came in to be instructed from the Bible.
While their teacher was thus employed, I
stole outside and retired to the far end of
the garden. I had been feeling lonely; a
word of reproof had fallen on my ears,
which heightened my sadness. I hurried
to seek a secluded spot, where unperceived
I could indulge in prayer and meditation.
The footpath led underneath large trees.
The stars were peering out in all their re-
splendent brightness; the blue sky shone in
tranquil beauty; the moon was gone, and
the twilight shades seemed passing lovely;
the wind was low; all was still but for the
loud roar of the old ocean’s waves, they
murmured in the distance; the air, oh, so
mild and balmy!
	I sat down in the green grass—the spot
seemed sacred. I gazed into the starry
heavens and thought of the bright world
where our Savior dwells. I thought of the
dear sisters in the valley of the mountains
and longed to commune with them. I felt 
to love those most who, like me, had sor-
rows. So clings the heart to objects assimu-
lated to it. I prayed earnestly for a sub-
missive spirit. Presently a calm came over
me; it seemed the foretaste of happier days;

[Column 3]
it was sweet and silent; it impressed m
that holy beings were near me. I had
been thinking of blighted joys; of dayf
when I looked upon the world as full oe
charms: of the change that came over my
brightest prospects, and how my sun of
