[Column 1]
Ben Gannett studiously, and a year passed
without having seen him.
	In June, when the roses awakened and
all the world seemed filled with love and
peace. she was sent out on another expedi-
tion. She tried in vain to crush out of her
soul this love for the young surgeon, but
it would not be killed. The boys in camp
found Bob changed after the skirmish, but
though they teased him, got no satisfac-
tion.
	Deborah on this second occasion was
full of her usual strength and vigor.
	At length the order came for her to join
twenty men who were to retaliate on some
Tories in New York. She sprang on a
horse, and with the others charged the foe
boldly and chased them into a quagmire.
In the midst of her bravery a bullet pierced
her thigh. Her cavalry boot filled with 
blood, and she grew weak and faint. She
called out to the soldiers, “I can go no
further!” One of them stopped and 
offered to carry her, but she motioned him 
away, fearing to be discovered, and he left 
her.
	Scarcely had he withdrawn when an-
other man rode out of the forest. She
knew him instantly, Ben Gannett.
	“Wounded again, Rob?” he said gently,
going to the youth, with blood stains on
his clothes.
	“Yes, yes,” Deborah answered in an 
agonized tone. “And it’s an ugly one.”
She pressed her hand over it, trying to
stop the blood.
	“This time I hope you’ll be sensible,
and let me dress the wound,” Ben said,
holding out a hand to help her.
	“I cannot, Doctor, believe me. I’ve a
horror of being hurt more—and prefer to
dress it myself,” she said firmly.
	“I suppose amongst your other follies,
which are those almost of a woman—”
	Deborah quailed beneath the sarcasm,
and he perceived an odd little smile on her
lips.
	“I say, Rob, amongst your other follies,
you will doubtless try to walk to camp.”
	“Perhaps,” she said, and with a ner-
vous strength she got to her feet.
	“Ah, me,” she exclaimed, with a per-
ceptible pang of pain. He saw she suf-
fered.
	“Do be sensible,” he urged, “and let
me help you.”
	“No, Doctor, it’s useless asking.”
	She tried to walk, but found it impos-
sible.
	“The game’s up. I’m good for nothing.
What shall I do? If I could only get to
my tent I could fix the wound in a
moment,” she said.
	“Well, since you won’t listen to me,
there is but one way I can help you,” he
said, and without warning he lifted her in
his arms and placed her on his horse and
mounting up beside her he started off for
camp.
	Deborah remembered that ride. They
were quite silent, for the day was drawing
to its close. A mist came down and clung
to the trees. It circled over the meadow
like a veil between them and the river.
	Ben was not thinking of the scene but
of his companion. He looked at her
closely. She had lost her cap in the fray,
leaving her shapely head exposed. It was
covered with a mass of short dark curls.
Without knowing what power made him,
he laid his hand on her head. Deborah
moved away uneasily.
	“My lad,” he said, “why are you so

[Column 2]
impatient of care? What is the reason?”
	“Oh, nothing. No reason,” she said
shortly, pressing her hand to her side, and
the Doctor saw she was still suffering.
	He refrained from more questions. He 
saw that his companion’s face grew white
and drawn.
	“Oh, it’s all up with me,” he heard her
say, and then a sudden flash of something
bright in the hand which was free. In a 
second he wrenched the weapon from her.
Deborah in a moment of desperation and 
pain was about to kill herself.
	“Rob, are you mad,” the Doctor said,
pinioning her hands by a strong grasp.
He felt how the boy leaned heavily against
him. Was he too late? Was he dying?
	No, the breath came in short gasps, but
the eyes were closed.
	“Rob”’ he said, “I didn’t mean to be
harsh to you. You are suffering.”
	A pressure of the hand was the only
answer, and thus they rode on, Deborah
in a half conscious state, allowing herself
to rest in his arms.
	“Strange,” the Doctor thought, “a
moment ago such energy and now he’s fit
to die. I can’t help loving the boy, in
spite of his wilfulness.
		[To be continued.]


