hope went down in early life. Then I re-
membered how the bright and glorious
morning star of the Gospel had arisen in
my horizon; with what enthusiasm I had
obeyed its mandates; what danger I had en-
countered, and what deliverance I had
found. A holy calm came over me. I looked
towards the window; the light was extin-
guished. I hurried to the house, fearing
to meet a reproof, which I did, but it could
not disturb my peace. I did not plead for
an apology that I had been alone with God
and nature; that my saddened heart was
comforted. I had passed self-approving     
hours and a great burden was removed. In
secret I thanked the Lord. 
	Today, 22nd of August, arrived the
schooner Ravai from Tahiti. We were all
greatly rejoiced to see her safely landed in
the harbor once more. There had been
severe gales of wind, which had caused us
great anxiety. A native by the name of
Hamutua, and family, came on the vessel.
They brought their children, seven in num-
ber, and presented them to us, saying
“Here are your children, we commit them
to your care, do with them as you think
proper.” They are very good children.
	Oh, what a work there is to be done
here! Who will do it? If the children
were cultivated they wrould be gentle and
amiable like our own children. Those just
committed to our care are beautiful singers.
They seem delighted to have it in their
power to entertain their teachers, and
show no backwardness when called upon
to sing, as our children often do. Their
hymn books are opened on the instant, and
each one knows his part.
	About the 25th, J. Layton brought a bar-
rel of flour from Tahiti. This was indeed a
luxury, having lived a long time wholly on
the native food. Still we did not crave it
to make bread, from that we were entirely
weaned. The bread fruit, tarrow and
sweet potatoes more than supplied its place,
but for pie crust it was a great article. Any-
thing made of flour the children regard the
same as ours relish candy.
	On the 29th, the whole family went to
Mahu (the other village) and left me alone
with the house to keep. I was delighted
with the prospect of enjoying quietude for
a few days. The first morning Brother B.
F. Grouard called and took breakfast with
me. We talked of his lengthy residence
among the Islands; of his desire to return
to the body of the Church. The idea of going
to Salt Lake and meeting his old friends
seems to him a foretaste of heaven. I
hope and pray he may not be disappointed;
but tied as he is with a native wife and a
family of children, the way seems dark and
uncertain. He feels that domestic happiness
has not yet fallen to his lot, and he sighs
for it in secret. How hard it is for us to
redeem ourselves from a misstep in youth!
The effect of it must follow us even to old
age. As we sow, thus we must reap. The
blessings flowing from the Gospel, I trust,
will redeem this brother of whom I write,
and he may yet rejoice in the land of Zion,
with a companion congenial to his nature.
I bade him hope, and trust in Him who
“moves in a mysterious way His wonders 
to perform.”
		[To be continued.]


