VISIT THROUGH ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	I thought a few lines from this part of
the country might interest your readers.
	President Ann C. Woodbury and Coun-
selor Emma Morris, of the Relief Society,
and Rose Jarvis, of the Y. L. M. I. A.,
and Mary Whitehead, of the Primary, of
the St. George Stake of Zion, with Leon
Jarvis as teamster, left St. George on the
17th of August, to visit the settlements on
the Rio Virgen River.
	We arrived at Toquerville the same eve-
ning, and held meetings with the Relief
Society, Young Ladies’ and Primary.
	On the 28th we went on to Virgen City
at 10 a. m., met with the Relief Society
and had a good time. At 3 p. m. we met
with a nice lot of the Primary children. At
8 p. m. met with the Young Ladies. After
the sisters had spoken, all the girls present
bore their testimonies.
	The 18th we went on to Grafton, where
there is a small settlement. We held
meeting at 10 a. m. with the Relief Society
and Primary together, and after partaking
of Bishcp Ballard’s hospitality, we went on
to Springdale, where we met in a bowery
with the sisters and a very fine lot of chil-
dren. Brother Alpheus Gifford, who has
recently lost his eyesight and is quite blind,
and one of the Bishop’s counselors met
with us. Here they have very fine crops,
and we truly breathed the air of freedom.
	The 20th, which was Sunday, we came
back to Rockville. At 10 a. m. met with
the Sabbath School. At 2 p. m. we met
with the Saints in their regular meeting.
After the sacrament had been administered,
the meeting was given over to the sisters.
We urged the Saints to do their duties.
After the services we met with the Primary.
At 8 p. m. we met with the Mutual Im-
provement Association and enjoyed it very
much.
	On the 21st we traveled to Leeds. At 4
p. m. we met with the Relief Society and
Primary, and at 8 p. m. with the Young
Ladies. We had a joyful time. Almost
all the girls bore their testimonies. We
were entertained by Sister Ira McMullin,
whose husband is on a mission.
	On the 22nd we went to Harrisville
There they have no water; everything is
almost dried up. It is a small settlement.
We held a Primary meeting and invited all
to come. We felt well in meeting with the
sisters and children. We had dinner with
Sister Laney and then returned home,
having been away six days. We remained
home eleven days, and then started to visit
the western settlements of the St. George
Stake.
	On the 2nd of September, Brother Rich-
ard Morris, Stake superintendent of the
Sabbath School; President Ann C. Wood-
bury, of the Relief Society; Rosa Morris, of
the Y.L.M.I.A., and Mary G. Whitehead
left St. George. We arrived at Pine Valley
in the evening and put up at Bishop Snow’s.
Sunday we attended Sabbath School.
Brother Morris and the sisters talked. They
have a nice Sabbath School there. We met
with the Saints in sacrament meeting, after
which we met with the Primary and re-
organized it. At 7:30 p. m., we met with
the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. We
had an interesting time, many of the sisters
bore testimony to the truth of the work
in which we are engaged.
	On the 4th we went to Grass Valley. We
met with the people and had a joyful time.
All bore testimony to the truth of the Gos


pel. We had dinner with Brother Rancher
and family. At 5 p. m. left for Pinto and
met with the Primary at 7:30 p. m. We
held meeting with the Relief Society and
Y. L. M. I. A.: had a nice time. 
	The 5th we traveled on to Enterprise.
At 3 o’clock we met with the Primary. At
8 p. m. we organized a Relief Society. Re-
organized a Y. L. M. I. A.
	Talked with the sisters in Pine Valley
on the silk industry. We were showing a
sample of the silk we had made. They
said, “Why don’t you talk it up?” I
thought I had talked enough. They said
“We can’t raise silk here, but we can help
about the ribbon loom.” I talked about it
here and a gentleman, not of our faith, by
the name of Marshal, gave me a dollar to-
wards the silk. Bishop Hall met with us
and we had an excellent meeting.
	The 6th we went on to Hebron. At 10
a. m. we met with the Primary; lots of fine
children. Met with the Relief Society.
Bishop Holt attended all the meetings.
	The 7th we went on to Clover Valley.
Met with the Sunday School and Primary
children at 7:30 in the evening, also with
the Relief Society, and Y. L. M. I. A.
	On the 8th we continued our journey on
to Panacca. On the 9th held Primary
meeting at 4 p. m.; also met with the Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., and re-
organized the latter.
	The 10th being Sunday, we attended
Sunday School and sacrament meeting,
after which we were invited to a water
melon feast at Brother John Lee’s. Sister
Jarvis met with the Young Ladies’ at 5 p.
m., and held a testimony meeting. We
also had a general meeting at 8 p. m., and
had an enjoyable time. While at Panacca
we stayed at Brother Arthur Lee’s and
were invited out to other places and shared
the hospitality of the people.
	On the 11th we continued our journey
over a broken country to Eagle Valley.
The people, owing to being in such an out
of the way place, have not been visited by
missionaries very often. They thoroughly
appreciated our visit. We met with the
Sunday School at 4 p.m.,and held a general
meeting at 8 p. m. The people were in
from Spring Valley. The first principles
of the Gospel were dwelt upon and we
truly had a time of rejoicing.
	On the 12th we left Eagle Valley and
started for Deer Lodge. We took the
wrong road and traveled on a wood road
about two and a half miles. Brother John
Hammond overtook us and said we would
have a “dear lodge” that night if we
kept on that road; so we returned and ar-
rived at Deer Lodge at 12 o’clock. We
took dinner with Sister Whitehead’s daugh-
ter, Mamie Lund. At 1 p. m. we started
for Bishop Holt’s. We stopped at Modena
and fed and watered the horses. We ar-
rived at Brother Holt’s having traveled
sixty-five miles that day. Sister Holt
kindly entertained us.
	On the 13th we left for St. George and
arrived in the evening, having traveled
there hundred and twenty-five miles and
held thirty-seven meetings. We trust we
have done some good in the cause of truth.
			Your sister in the Gospel,
