that ward for a number of years, and at the time
of her death was president of the Relief Society of
Forest Dale ward, which position she held from its
organization.
    She leaves a husband, three sons and four
daughters. Her second son, Mathoni P., is now
performing a mission in New Zealand. On the
morning of Mathoni’s departure, his grandmother
Pratt died. It was suggested to Sister Driggs the
propriety of calling her son home. She would not
entertain the thought. She was devoted to her re-
ligion, and kept the Word of Wisdom to the letter.
Her example was worthy of emulation; her whole
life has been spent in doing good, ministering to
the poor and needy, patient and kind to every one.
She has suffered in patience for the last year; was
perfectly resigned to the Father s will. The
whole community mourn with the sorrowing
household the departure of such a noble spirit.
								      COM.
	CHARLOTTE WOODS CARTER HIGBEE. 
	The funeral services of this noble Mother in
Israel were held in the 7th ward meeting house,
at 12 o’clock, noon, Sunday, Sep. 24, Bishop
Thorne presiding.
    According to her own request, the hymns sung
were “How firm a foundation,” “O, my Father”
and “Come to me will ye come.” The speakers
were Elder David McKenzie, who read a brief
sketch of her life, and Bishop O. F. Whitney.
Six of her grandsons acted as pall bearers, and a
large number of relatives and friends followed the
cortege to Mount Olivet, where the remains were
intered. Members of the choir rendered beauti-
fully “Farewell all earthly honors,” and Coun-
selor McLaughlin dedicated the grave
   Sister Higbee passed from this life Thursday
morning, Sep. 21, 1899, at the residence of her
daughter, Mrs. Minerva Cunnington, Salt Lake
City, Utah. She was the daughter of Roxana
Cresson and Levi Farnsworth Woods, and was
born in the town of Sangerfield, Keene Co., State
of New Hampshire, May 20, 1814.
    The following are her own words, which were
written in 1889:
    “I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in the year 1831 in the town of Pomfret,
Chatauqua Co., New York. I have passed through


all the trouble and persecution with the Saints
from that day to this, and never wavered in my
duty. I was married to Gideon Haden Carter,
a widower, in the year 1832; he was killed by a
mob in the battle of Crooked River, Missouri,
1838. I have passed through many scenes where
the power of God was manifest in a marvelous
degree.”
	She lived in the home of Elder Carter (whom
she afterwards married) during the illness and
death of his wife, Hillah Burwell Carter. I again
quote from her own writings:
	"The day before she died, an angel of the Lord
administered to her telling her that her body
should sleep in mother earth, but her spirit should
go to the paradise of God and rest until the morn-
ing of the first resurrection, and should then be
raised to a glorious exaltation in the kingdom of
her Heavenly Father. She received the vision on
a bright, sunny morning, the 1st of April. There
were eight persons and her six children in the
room at the time, who witnessed the glorious light
which filled the room and transfigured her beauti-
ful countenance while she talked to the angel,
which occupied one or two minutes. She talked
freely of what the angel said to her, until she died.
I testify this to be the sacred truth, for I was one
of the eight persons present.”
	She also testifies that a few years ago, when
given up to die by her family and friends, that the
power of the Lord rested upon her, telling her that
her work was not yet finished, and she was healed
in an instant.
	After the death of her husband, she was married
to Isaac Higbee for time and eternity, and was
with him at Provo during the Indian troubles,
keeping the powder magazine under her bed.
When driven with the Saints from Missouri, she
carried her baby in one arm, and her bundle in
the other. She was the mother of eight children—
two by Elder Carter, one son surviving; and six
by Elder Higbee, three of whom have passed away,
and three daughters now live in Salt Lake City.
She also leaves several grandchildren and great
grandchildren, and one brother and two sisters.
	The experiences and good deeds of this noble
woman would fill a volume. It is said she has
been a mother to six families, all of whom love
her and revere her memory. Peace to her ashes.

	Peace, peace, she is passing away,
	But through the gates to eternal day;
	Do not disturb her, fond heart be still,
	Gladly she listeth His will to fulfill, 
			Peace, peace.

	Out of the darkness, mis'ry and din,
	Into the light and glory within,  
	They alone enter, who’ve battled and won,
	They who have earned the glad plaudit well
		done,
				Peace, peace.

	Hushed be your mourning, rever’ntly bow,
	Only the clay remaineth here now;
	Happy in freedom, your mother has fled,
	Shout, shout, Hallujah! she is not dead,
			Peace, peace.

						Ruth M, Fox.


