[Column 1]
and also of the meetings of the Latter-day
Saints that we had the privilege of attend-
ing.
	LETTERS received from Mrs. Lillian M.
Hollister, of Detroit, Michigan, announce
her coming to our city for a few days. Mrs.
Hollister is the Supreme Commander of the
Supreme Hive of the Maccabees, an organ-
ization representing thousands of women
and millions of dollars. The society is
affiliated with the National Council of
Women of the United States.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, of New
York City, and Miss Mary G. Hay, of
Ohio, will be in this city October 30, and
will probably be the guests of Mrs. F. S.
Richards. Mrs. Catt is the chairman of the
Committee on Organization of the National
American Woman Suffrage Association, of
which the celebrated Miss Susan B.
Anthony is president. Miss Hay is a
member of the Committee on Organization.
These ladies come West in the interest of
suffrage, and are anxious that the four
equal suffrage states should help other
states to obtain the same rights and
privileges.
	GOVERNOR H. M. WELLS and party
have returned from New York, whither
they went to attend the Dewey celebration
and demonstrations. The Governor is in
excellent spirits, and has enjoyed all the
proceedings in which he participated. He
has met many distinguished people. He
called on President McKinley, and speaks
in glowing terms of the interview. No state
in the Union is prouder of its Chief Execu-
tive than Utah, and the people are proud to
be represented at this greatest American
demonstration by so distinguished a party
as Governor Wells and his staff, and Majors
Young and Grant, whose services to the
country entitle them to a high place in the
hearts of the people.
	MRS. REBECCA B. CHAMBERS, of Penn-
sylvania, and two other ladies, will visit
Salt Lake City on their route homeward
from Seattle, Washington, where they have
been attending a convention of the W. C.
T. U. Mrs Chambers was a member of
the Resolution Committee of the N. C. W.
last winter, and became much interested in
some of the Utah women, members of the
same committee, and has written to Miss
Ann M. Cannon, secretary of the Res. Com.,
stating she will stop over here for a few
days. One of the ladies traveling with her
is a famous singer. Mrs. Chambers ex-
pects to be here over Sunday, the 29th of
this month. It is anticipated she will be
given a reception by the ladies here who
entertain for her a high regard, and will
greatly enjoy meeting her again and giving
her a glad welcome to the City of the
Saints.
	WE acknowledge with sincere thanks the
very courteous invitation from the “Wom-
en of Indianapolis” to be present at a re-
ception given by them in honor of Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, president of the
International Council of Women, Tuesday
evening, the seventeenth of October, 1899,
at 8:30, at the Propylaeum. We are very
sorry that circumstances prevent our attend-
ing this reception, as we feel it will be a
very significant and impressive occasion.
Mrs. Sewall has been made the president of
the greatest organization of women in the
world, although, perhaps, not the largest in

[Column 2]
membership, yet it includes many women
whose grand and able deeds, as well as
rank and title, have made them specially
distinguished. Indianapolis may well be
proud to recognize in a public demonstra-
tion, a woman of its own city, who has
attained such marked distinction before the
world. The whole United States may well
be proud of a woman whose talents and
ability and her own great personality, have
entitled her to be a leader among the
women of all civilized nations.
	THE grand reception tendered to Admiral
Dewey, was the most elaborate naval dem-
onstration the country has ever witnessed
upon any occasion, and in every particular
the affair was a marked success; even the
weather was favorable, so that the street
military parades, and the out door and in-
door receptions and gatherings, had all the
advantages of fine weather. The genuine
cordiality that characterized the introduc-
tions, greetings, handshakings, toasts and
speeches, and welcomings altogether on
Admiral Dewey’s arrival, was everywhere
observable. The presentation of the “Loving
Cup” and of the sword, the gift of Con-
gress, were scenes calculated to emphasize
in the minds and hearts of the people, deeds
of heroism and valor, and awaken a strong
sentiment of patriotism. These lessons
should be valuable to the nation. Especial-
ly was the native modesty of the Admiral
apparent through it all. Whatever honors
were shown him, or gifts bestowed, he ac-
cepted all in the same gracious spirit; and
when the Admiral brought forward his
Captains and introduced them to the audi-
ence, with such hearty good-will, he cer-
tainly must have won the respect and ad-
miration, as well as the lasting love of those
brave and gallant Captains of the navy,
who had served under him so faithfully,
“These are the men who did it. Without
them I could do nothing.”
	THE last week in November, we expect
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson, poet, author
and lecturer. She is the granddaughter of
Lyman Beecher, and grand niece of Henry
Ward Beecher, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Stetson will
be the guest of Mrs. A. W. McCune while
in Salt Lake City, and of Mrs. Susa Y.
Gates at Provo, where she is expected to
speak under the auspices of the Brigham
Young Academy. Arrangements are in
progress for a series of lectures in this city.
Mrs. Stetson not only comes of the cele-
brated Beecher stock, but is also descended
from the remarkable New England Perkins
family. It is said of her by the critics, that
“her gift of ready and eloquent speech
seems inborn, and more characteristic of
her genius than is her writing.” Some of
us who know her, feel that she is unequalled
in many ways. She is certainly a woman
of the age; a woman with a mission, un-
doubtedly. Her book, “Women and 
Economics,” is everywhere regarded as the
bravest, brightest, most original and most
readable volume on women. It has been
translated into French, German, Dutch and
Swedish, and is said to be one of the few
American books that are making a world-
appeal. Mrs. Stetson is a woman to be
listened to, and whether one agrees with
her views or not, one admires the womanly
earnestness of her speech, as also her strik-
ing appearance, which carries, with her
power of language, the conviction of her
own belief in the truths she expresses.


