glimpse of English home and social life. It
is needless to say the latter was chosen in 
almost every instance with the exception of
the receptions given by Her Majesty, the
Queen; that of Lady Aberdeen, at the In-
stitute of Water Colors; that of Lady War-
wick, and that of the Pioneer Club. As an
escort this English hostess proved so wise
and agreeable that her guest was quite
willing to say, when asked her approval of
plans for her entertainment and pleasure,
“Whither thou goest, I will go,” then it 
was that the first glimpse of a semi-public
social nature was received at the Pioneer
Club.
	This is the leading club for women
in London. It has a capacious mansion
in Grafton Street for its home. Its draw-
ing room, library, music room, refectory
and, last, but not least, its smoking-rooms
are all suitably equipped. The program was
admirable and the occasion enjoyable. Many
American women added interest to the
entertainment. The following were
among the notable English women: Miss
Lilly Hanbury, Lady Elizabeth Cust, Miss
Chapman, (a well-known writer) Mrs. Sib-
thorpe, (editor of Shafts) Dr. Helen Webb,
Madame Sterling, Miss Pendlington, Miss
Query, Miss Pelham and the Hon. Marie
Davis.
	As the days slipped by, the reception
given by the Pioneer Club was followed by
“At Homes” at the following: Mr. and 
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, authors of the well
known book on “Political Economy,” both
L. L. D’s of note. Mrs. Fawcett was as-
sisted by Miss Agnes Garrett and Miss
Fawcett. Another “At Home” was given

[Column 2]
by Mrs. Q. MacDonnell, niece to Mary
Howit, where we had the pleasure of meet-
ing Lady Hamilton, Sir Joshua and Lady
Fitch, Sir Robert Hunter and wife and
many other distinguished people.
	One pleasant afternoon was spent at the
garden party given by Mrs. Waller and her
husband, Dr. Waller, a celebrated physician,
who, after feasting our eyes and ears upon
the varied entertainment and a stroll about
the beautiful grounds, accorded us the hon-
or of a glimpse into his laboratory.
	The “At Home” of Mrs. Garrett-Ander-
son, that beloved philanthropist and physi-
cian of note, was made particularly inter-
esting by the presence of Rev. Dr. Howis
and daughter, Mrs. Charlick, Mrs. Mar-
shall, M. D., and Mrs. Ayrton, the only 
woman who has read a paper before the
Royal Society.
	So much for London homes; but that
was not enough. A glimpse was afforded
of the country home at Weybridge of Mr.
Charles Swinfern Eady, Q. C., and Mrs.
Eady. Mr. Eady was one of three men-
tioned for judge, and as he seemed to be
the choice, he has, no, doubt, by this time
ascended to that exalted position. Mr.
Eady’s home was once that of the Duke of
York, and its glories are commensurate to
the requirements of such a personage. Its
oaks and beaches are among the glories of
“Old Eagland.” There is one great beach
tree whose trunk to be encircled requires 
the clasped hands of three adults. The outer
branches touch the ground and form shelter
for many rustic seats beneath their mighty 
shade. The house is not the original one,
but built in Italian style, after the house of
Paura. Its spacious courts with chambers
spreading in all directions; adorned with
paintings and bric-a-brac supplements the
appointments requisite to this house of
wealth and culture. Mr. Eady takes much 
pride in his fruiteries, and well he may.
The great vines under cover laden with
nectarines, peaches, muscots, hamburgs or
figs, as the case may be, are all evidences
of the luxury in this beautiful home. This
gentleman affable and entertaining, was 
the architect of these fruiteries. This hap-
py home is presided over by Mrs. Eady, a
charming young wife, hospitable and cor-
dial, who has graced the home with a
daughter, now four years of age and the
embodiment of daintiness, little Miss Dora-
thy.
	In all the round of pleasure the inner 
man was not neglected, though little need
be said on that score, for everyone who
knows anything of English life, knows
that eating and tea drinking is never
scorned.
	Between times places of interest were
visited that need not be enumerated here,
excepting to say that Hyde Park was seen 
in all its natural and fashionable glory, and
as the season had not yet ended, it was a 
sight never to be forgotten.
	There are other phases of London life—
some to be deplored, some to be pitied,
some to be scorned and some to be con-
demned—but nothing can efface the mem-
ory of the ideal English home.
