=== FRONT MATTER (Cover, Ads, Contents, Advertisers Directory) ===

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL 1917 WE NOTE: We have five Temples, one destroyed, two building A picture of a Nephite Temple President Emmeline B. Wells is 89 years old, 75 years baptized Water-cress is the only cheap d& salad day Social work is the need of today Conference is Coming?  Are you Coming? Wells BE SPECIFIC When you order sugar, be particular to specify that "made by the Utah-Idaho Sugar Co." These words are stamped on each bag for your protection. You want the purest, whitest and sweetest sugar produced. EXTRA FINE Table and Preserving Sugar ABSOLUTELY PURE is the standard of sugar perfection. Order it by the bag 10, 25, 50 and 100 pounds. We also put up a 48 pound bag for parcel post orders. Order from your dealer. MADE BY UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. JOSEPH F. SMITH. President THOS. R CUTLER. VICE-PRES. AND GEN'L Man. TWO BOOKS Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work. L. D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church. These books are sold at $1.25 each. Deseret News Book Store 6 MAIN STREET Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Have You Read The Women of The Bible,  By ELDER WILLARD DONE If not, Why not? The book will help you in your Theology Lessons, it will give you a greater insight and love for the Bible characters, and will also make you glad that you are a woman and a sister to these good and glorious women who lived and loved and suffered even as we do today. Buy one for yourself, your mother, daughter or friend. PRICE, 75c For Sale by Deseret News Book Store The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS, APRIL 1917, VOL IV No. 4

April Lucy May Green
Font for the Hawaiian Temple Avard Fairbanks Frontispiece
Latter-day Temples 183
Birthday Celebration of our Honored President 200
Our New Board Member 201
Winning the Man's Mother Ida Stewart Peay 202
April Entertainment Morag 211
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 214
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 217
Current Topics James H. Anderson 220
Social Work 222
On the Way Mrs. Parley Nelson 227
Editorial: Spiritual Manifestations 228
Guide Lessons 230

ADVERTISERS:

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY, 60 East South Temple
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City, Utah
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE, by Willard Done
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City

=== GENERAL BOARD ===

THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building,

=== BEFORE FIRST ARTICLE ===

TO President Emmeline B Wells By Kate Thomas. LITTLE SILVER MOTHER. Little silver mother, don't you hear the call o' spring Coaxing you and teasing you to come out in the sun That's splashing down its color on the budding crocus bed And gilding new the glad hearts of the daisies one by one? Little silver mother, don't you hear the blackbird trill? It says, "Come out, come out, come out and play at tag with The wide brown fields are greening and the ladyslipper's red, And I me!" saw a bluebird flashing in the old bark-maple tree. Little silver mother with your heart so full of spring, 'Tis God has been the wondrous sun that made yon garden grow. Life's tempests could not drown the sweet forgetmenots outspread Because His warmth gold-tipped them with a never-fading glow. Little silver full A flower mother, you'rethata has of flowers flower madeof the His world own, more fair. That has made the fresh breeze sweeter by the perfumes it has shed, And your conquest is: His blessing and our prayer. Vol. IV. APRIL, 1917. No. 4. Latter-day Temples History discloses somewhat freely the underlying reasons for temple building among the ancients. Both the Hebrews from their earliest history as well as the Egyptians, Babylonians. Assyrians, Hindus and Chinese built temples in which to perform sacrificial rites and to administer ritual services to neophytes, and to store the records and sacred works of the various peoples who built these sacred houses to their gods. The Hebrews alone tolerated no images and accepted no human priestly sacrifices. The rituals or ceremonies of initiation for the candidates were all performed in that sacred secrecy which guarded the rites by penalties of destruction and divine wrath. For this reason only vague tradition and veiled allusions in the Scriptures, permit the modern student a glimpse of the hidden mysteries of the temples. The pagan temples were similar in ideals and in some cases similar in construction to the great original Hebrew and Semitic holy houses. Indeed, all of the great original structures and ceremonies are but a corrupted remnant of the great original and divine plan which was revealed to the ancient prophets from Adam down to Noah, from Noah to Moses, to David and to the Savior Himself. These mysteries and sacrifices had for their root or foundation, the great atonement of our Lord and Savior. With the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem these things passed away and went with the Bride into the Wilderness, where they were hidden from the memory of man. Only the Masonic ceremonies remained as a fragment of the truth bequeathed from an alien source from the days of Solomon down through the ages. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was commissioned of God the Father and His Son Jesus Christ to restore the everlasting gospel to the inhabitants of the earth, the revelations which were given him included as the final crown the ceremonies and rituals of baptism for the living and the dead and those keys and blessings 184 RELIEE SOCIETY MAGAZINE. which alone unlock the door to the Kingdom of God for such candidates as are privileged to enter there. the Kirtland temple. (Still standing.) The first temple built by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the corner stones of which were laid July 23, 1833, was accepted by our Father in a series of glorious manifestations and revelations which are thrilling in their intensity and power on the printed pages of the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 109. Here Elijah visited the Prophet as Malachi prophesied he would do and committed, through Joseph, the keys of salvation for the dead which turned the hearts of the fathers to the children and the hearts of the children to the fathers. The ceremonies administered in this temple, however, were but preliminary to the final blessings which were to be revealed and instituted in the temple at Nauvoo. On the banks of the Mississippi River, April 30, 1846, the Nauvoo Temple was dedicated privately and later publicly on LATTER-DAY TEMPLES. 185 May 2 and 3, and the Saints received their endowments before leaving there. The corner stones of this temple were laid by the Prophet Joseph Smith April 6, 1841. Built under the most strenuous circumstances, the glass and nails costing over $2,000 was contributed by the sisters of Nauvoo in that donation known as the Sisters' Penny Subscription Fund. The font was dedicated by the Prophet himself for baptisms for the living and the dead on November 8, 1841, and the main structure sufficiently completed, in1846, for the full ceremonies of the endowment. These were to be given after the pattern laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith who had revealed and taught them to the Twelve and their wives with other leading brethren and sisters. These ceremonies were given under his direction in the upper room or hall over the Nauvoo store. The temple at Nauvoo saw the entrance of thousands of eager Saints after the martyrdom, who knew that they were about to be driven into the trackless west, away from their city and temple. Many baptisms for the dead were also performed. The writer has often heard President Bathsheba W. Smith refer to her experiences at this period, and she related how she herself and other women with her received their preliminary blessings under the hands of the Prophet's wife, Emma Hale Smith; the Navaho temple. (Destroyed in 1846. Cost $1,000,000.) 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. and then how they joined with their husbands in the completion of the ceremonies, led and taught as the company was by the Prophet himself who explained and enlarged wonderfully upon every point as they passed along the way. The testimony of our present President. F. Meline B. Wells, will also be interesting and valuable at this point. She has recorded in the pages of one of the old numbers of the Exponent the names of the men and women who hail their endowments under the hands of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Nauvoo Temple ceremonies were presided over, after the death "t the Prophet, by Brigham Young, President of the Twelve Apostles. Me was assisted by Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards and others of the Twelve, while some of the sisters who labored in that temple were: Mary Fielding Smith, Eliza R. Snow. Elizabeth Ann Whitney. Mercy R. Thompson, Desdamona Fulmer, Leonora Taylor, and Bathsheba W. Smith. The Temple was destroyed on the evacuation of Nauvoo, in 1846. IP SALT LAKE TEMPLE. LATTER-DAY TEMPLES. 187 After the Saints arrived in Salt Lake City, the first official act of President Brigham Young was to indicate by the voice of inspiration the spot where the temple of the Lord should be erected. Forty years were consumed in the building of a $4,000- 000 structure which is the wonder and admiration of every visitor and tourist, while it is the object of love and veneration in the hearts of all Latter-day Saints. Unique in its architecture, supremely grand in its simplicity, it is the symbol of the eternal faith and hope of a people who believe in God and in the mission of the Savior of the world. This temple was completed and dedicated April 6, 1893, and has seen the redemption of hundreds of thousands of the dead kindred of the Saints as well as the marriage of tens of thousands of the children of this people. Beautiful without and within, it is a shrine for which the people strive. Long before the completion of the Salt Lake Temple the St. George Temple rose white and stainless in its embrasure of green ST. GEORGE TEMPLE. 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. shrubbery and its background of the black and red-gold hills which rim the picture. The St. George Temple was costly in the extreme because of the care which went into its construction. Exquisitely simple in all its appointments, it is still a retreat for the weary and an open door to the imprisoned dead. It was completed and dedicated by President Brigham Young, January 1. 1877, and its doors have never closed since that dav. LOGAN TEMPLE. The Logan Temple was begun on September 17, 1877. Situated upon a commanding hillside, the Logan Temple looks out upon a valley of verdure and exceeding richness. Seen from every point of that valley it is a stately, white sentinel of guardianship and peace. It is the mecca for all the Saints dwelling in the northern portion of the Church and has been always filled with the spirit of tender sympathy and companionship for those who enter its doors. The Manti Temple, the ground for which was broken by President I Ingham Young April 30, 1877, was dedicated by President Wilford Woodruff, May 21, 1888. Cost, $1,000,000. LATTER-DAY TEMPLES. 189 In this temple has been witnessed many glorious manifestations, both at its dedication and at subsequent periods. The benign influence of President Daniel H. Wells, and, later, President Anthon H. Lund, and now President Lewis Anderson permeates these sacred courts and eofolds all who enter with the benediction of peace. MANTI TEMPLE. It is not too much to say that the women of the Latter-day Saints during the last ten years have done a great deal through their labors and their writings to renew the spirit of temple work in the midst of this people. Classes have been established and conventions held in many of the stakes of Zion for the study and practice of genealogy. During the last two years every member of the 41,000 women of the Relief Society has been required to attend the temple in her district once a year in person, or to send a substitute. It is really impossible to estimate the force and power which the women of the Relief Society through their united efforts have set in operation. It is like a stone cast into the sea  small though it may be, the waves set in motion thereby will never cease until their circles reach the shores of eternity. A new phase of their labor in this connection was inaugurated last September in what is known as the Sisters' Penny Subscription Fund, and the readers of this article will be interested to learn that through the modest and quiet efforts of this fund 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. considerably over $3,000 has been sent in to the General Board Office for the six months' term endingwith January 1,1917. It seems almost unbelievable that such a thing could be when so little has been said and almost no preaching has been done on the subject. Itcreates a feeling of awe to contemplate the power possessed bythis organization known as the Relief Society. The Prophet Joseph Smith was the pioneer temple builder. He laid down the pattern, he revealed the principle, he established the covenant. Two temples were built under his direction. The ceremonies of marriage and endowment, of baptism for the dead, and ordinance work for the dead, were revealed and established byhim and taught to the people in Kirtland and Nauvoo. His last labors and teachings centered in the temple work, and he told the people that this was the most important responsibility resting upon their shoulders. He said that those Saints who neglect this work in behalf of their deceased relatives, do it at the peril of their own salvation. Following him came President Brigham Young who also was a temple builder. He planned and built the temple in St. George, planned and laid the foundations of the temples in Logan, Manti, and Salt Lake City. Like his file leader, the Prophet Joseph Smith, his thoughts dwelt solemnly upon the necessity of this work, and his last years were dedicated to the preparation of the people for a millennium of temple building and temple work. With his death and the subsequent persecutions and prosecutions of the leaders of this people by their enemies, the work was somewhat delayed and hindered. President John Taylor dedicated the temple in Logan, and President Wilford Woodruff the temples in Manti and Salt Lake City, while President Lorenzo Snow was president of the Salt Lake Temple during his brief presidency. President Joseph F. Smith is our third great temple builder. He has dedicated the ground for the temples in Canada and Hawaii, and will under the blessing of the Lord, dedicate them both, and, we hope, break ground and dedicate other temples in other parts of Zion. It is under his administration and through his sympathetic leadership that temple work has grown and developed until every town and hamlet in this Church feels the stirring impetus of this crowning labor of the Latter-day Saints. We may well offer up our prayers that he shall be with us to lay the foundation of the temple in Jackson County. No more cheering news could be given to the Latter-day Saints than the announcement that a temple would be erected in Canada for the Saints living in that portion of this land. The active labors of President Edward J. Wood in encouraging genLATTER-DAY TEMPLES. 191 ealogical activities, and the pleasant situation of Cardston, determined the choice, no doubt, of the sightly hill upon which the Canadian temple is now being erected. The cost of this temple has far exceeded the estimates, as native stone has been chosen with which to build it, and war times have necessarily increased greatly the cost of material and labor which is going into this CANADIAN TEMPLE. beautiful edifice. It is a comforting thought that every penny contributed by the sisters of the Relief Society may help to buy the glass and nails for this temple in far-off Canada, even as their pennies purchased the glass and nails for the temple in Nauvoo. We shall have a claim upon the blessings which will be given in this temple at its completion. It is an interesting phase of the situation here to know that President John Taylor and the martyred Patriarch Hyrum Smith's wife, Mary Fielding Smith, mother of President Joseph F. Smith, accepted the gospel^ in eastern Canada along with Elder Joseph Home and his wife, M. Isabella Home. Lydia Goldthwaite Knight, Amos Fielding and other noted pioneers in the Church. The last temple site chosen and dedicated by President JosSmith eph F.wich thesituated Islands isonthat Laie on the island' Churchat plantation. of Oahu, President SandSamuel E. Woolley has long maintained the fact that the Lord inspired his servants to build a temple for the ocean-girt isolated people of Hawaii. President Joseph F. Smith dedicated this ground on Tune 1, 1915, and that temple is nearly completed. It will be a "small temple, comparatively for speaking, accommodating but fifty in a company, but beautiful situation and comely within and without. The singular prophecy made by President Brigham 192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Young at the laying of the corner stone of the Salt Lake Temple, when he told the people that temples would be built in the future UOFINISHED

=== BACK MATTER (Ads, Trailing Content) ===

Furniture Company Salt Lake City, Utah W. N. WILLIAMS, Supt. THE Relief Society Magazine