[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Our New Board Member]

Our New Board Member MISS LILLIAN CAMERON. The members of the Relief Society will be interested to know that we have a talented young worker added to our General Board. Miss Lillian Cameron is the daughter of David and Sarah A. Childs Cameron. She is of the third generation in the Church on her father's and the fourth on her mother's side. Her father was born in Scotland and her mother in England. She was born in Utah. She has been a teacher in the Sunday Schools, in all the grades, and in the Y. L. M. I. A., Laving acted as First and Second Counselor in the Eleventh Ward Mutual. Her best public work, however, has been done in the Genealogical Office. She went into the Historian's Office in 1008, and in 1909 she went into the Genealogical Office. Very shortly thereafter she became Assistant Librarian, which position she still occupies. She is one of the most expert workers in the Scandinavian pedigrees in the Church, that is, she is able to follow out the intricate tables and reduce them to the standardized American form for temple purposes. She has acted as stake chairman of the Temple work in the Ensign Stake Board Relief Society, giving splendid satisfaction by her labors. She is naturally refined, intellectual, and her expert known edge of genealogy, as well as other educational topics, makes her an invaluable help to the General Board. We welcome her to our circle. Winning the Man's Mother. By Ida Ipswich. "Did you order that chicken for tomorrow, Jim?" Lucy Mackson imprisoned her big-boy husband in the corner of the kitchen by the baking table, where he had slipped to playfully pitch some of the cake dough she was assiduously stirring. "Tastes just like it used to when mother would turn her back, and I was barely tall enough to jab a spoon into the jar or gouge out a mouthful with my dirty finger," laughed the man, evading her question and teasingly smacking his lips over another sip of the golden mixture. "Here!" cried the wife with mock severity, "you'll eat it all up so I won't have any angel food for tomorrow. But you did not answer my question, now confess your sins  did you forget the chicken?" There was the tender light of young love in her eyes but she held an egg-beater over his head menacingly. The youthful husband pretended to quake under such a deadly weapon and hastened to declare that he had remembered the pesky fowl  the troubled look did not come into his eyes until the happy little wife turned away. "Lucky thing for you that you did as you were told for once," she chimed sweetly. "You know  " turning to the neighbor woman and close friend who had just dropped in for a moment's chat  "I've invited Jim's mother up for dinner tomorrow  hence all this pastry. Oh, I'm going to have a fancy spread, all right. Here, laddie," she ordered with naive charm, "you may crack the nuts for the salad." Standing behind his wife the man's expression was one of dejection and anxiety. Her jolly enthusiasm smote him to the heart, but he affected a careless note, as, not being able to let her chatter on this way, he burst out. "Oh, ah,  a  by  the  way, Louie, I forgot to tell you, I went around to see mother and  and, by George, as luck will have it she'd just put a quilt on the frames  right in the living room where it couldn't be left, you know  and it will take her all 'lay tomorrow to get it off  she's doing it alone and its fine, she told me. So, you see, it will be quite impossible for her to  a  get here. But we'll have the spread just the same," he worked himself into a lively manner  "and invite your mother over." "Not coming!" there was painful disappointment in the amateur cook's ejaculation and heedless of his last suggestion she