[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Font for the Hawaiian Temple Avard Fairbanks Frontispiece La]
HAWAIIAN TEMPLE. HAWAIIAN TEMPLE. containing flower gardens and fish ponds upon the roof thereof, seems likely to be fulfilled in the plans made by President Wool- 
 ley for such adornments on the Hawaiian temple. This temple will, no doubt, be ready for dedication during the early summer months, and it is anticipated that 10,000 Hawaiian Saints will be in attendance at this service, thus disappointing somewhat the hopes of some of our Saints in Utah who have been attracted by the thought of a possible excursion at the dedication time, to this "paradise of the Pacific." All in good time these things will come, and when the Hawaiians themselves measurably satisfy their own righteous desires in temple labors we may hope to have an opportunity of some future visit and labor in this beautiful temple. In connection with the labors of the Saints to redeem their dead in the temples, the study and practice of genealogy is an absolute necessity. We are a kingdom of priests and priestesses and among the wonderful privileges and responsibilities that accompany the priestly office is the art and science of recording the genealogy of the living and the dead. The Levitical Priesthood in Moses' time and the Priesthood long before his time were trained in this science. It is given now as a great honor to every member of this Church to become his own genealogist and the genealogist of his or her family. It will be impossible  it has been and ever will be impossible  to perform work for our dead kindred unless we have their records, and these records properly prepared in books suited to temple purposes, so that the preparation of genealogies lies at the root of all temple labor. We have been furnished with an account of the pioneer genMISSION HOUSE AT LAIE, 
 ealogical class held in Hawaii by Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe on a recent visit to those islands. She says: "l 111. FIRST CLASS IN GENEALOGY AT HAWAII." "The Temple in Hawaii is fast nearing completion. Tt is planned to accomodate fifty people, and it is hoped that drawing as it will from all the Polynesian group of islands, it will he occupied most of the time. "The question often asked is: 'Will the people have their genealogies in such shape that they can make full use of the temple when it is dedicated?' To one who never sees beyond the mere accomplishment of man's power, the question must be answered decidedly in the negative, because, while the people themselves have kept their family records only by tradition, even the ruling families have been very remiss in this respect. "During a recent visit there. I was much impressed with the necessity of the Hawaiian.Saints, generally and individually making a systematic beginning in this great field, so thai there will be work for them to do from the beginning. In conversation with President S. E. Woolley 1 asked if he had any objection to my urging this upon the Saints publicly, if I had a chance. He gave his consent, so when the Relief Society of HonPRESIDENT SAMUEL WOOLLEY, ELDERS AND SAINTS AT LAIE. 195 LA TTER-DA \ ' TEMPLES. olulu asked me to be present at their meeting and speak to tHem, I chose as my theme, the necessity of gathering genealogy. About a week later at a meeting of the Relief Society, at Laie, the same theme was chosen, and the sisters became every much interested-  so much so that they insisted upon having a class formed for study upon this subject. "I talked with President Woolley and assured him of my willingness to help them make the right start in this direction. But since I had not come with any special commission from the genealogical authorities and also, of course, because I was not familiar with their language, I could not take them very far. "I explained to the Saints in general that Inasmuch as the Lord never required His children to perform any task unlesss the way was made clear, nevertheless, His children had to put forth their own effort and use their own intelligence or the Lord's help would be useless. And while the gathering of genealogy in Hawaii may seem hopeless to many, there was a very simple beginning to make  and we could never climb any mountan, be it high or low, except by taking one step at a time. The first step in gathering genealogy is to start with the living. "I had with me the guide book of the Relief Society and used the simple instructions there for beginners, adding some things from my own experience. GENEALOGICAL CLASS IN HAWAII. 1<>
