EDITORIAL    RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - -: - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII DECEMBER, 1921 No. 12 THE YEAR'S OLD AGE CHRISTMAS TIDE To children, to youth, and to early maturity, the Christmas season brings thoughts of joy, feasting and present-giving. But to those who have reached the youth of old age, the month of December brings thoughts of the aging days soon to fall asleep in the cradle of the infant new year. Age with its frequent loneliness, its loss of capacity, its failure of early ambitions, and above all the growing feeling that no one needs or wishes us about, this is our tragedy! Talk of Christmas gifts! Once a year presents—what are they to the lonely aching heart of age! How can one bright holiday make up for months of forgotten needs! We aging women want congenial work to do each day! Health to do our work!—opportunity to work. That is heaven to any normal human being. Work and a quiet room of our own, one loved companion near—ah, then Christmas brings good cheer. If the young-old woman has cultivated the habit of reading —the papers, novels, and most especially the Bible and Book of Mormon, she will find infinite comfort and company in her reading, particularly in the glorious books of the scriptures. She should not read in an accidental way, but read them right through —again and again. Orson Pratt once said he had read the Book of Mormon sixty-three times. It grows richer and. Fuller with each reading. This aging woman must work, cook, sew, patch, embroider, peel potatoes, knit—she can always knit, even if her eyes trouble 
 ner. If you could see the blessed old blind women in the temple waiting in the hall to go forward—visiting happily, and knitting — knitting—you would feel that you could find work to do, no matter who you were or where you were. Don't be idle. Find an absorbing interest—in your grandchildren, in the thrilling news of the day, in the Relief Society, or, best of all, in the temple! If you can live in a temple district, go to the sacred courts of the House of the Lord and there find rest, peace and throbbing interest in life. If you don't, try to learn how to keep temple records or make temple clothing, or do the housework for your busy daughter while she writes in your records. If you must eat the bread of dependence, avoid interfering with your "in-laws." Even let your own daughters and sons alone, unless they seek advice and counsel. It is hard for mothers and mothers-in-law—after you have been the hub of a swift moving wheel for forty or fifty flying years—it is hard to find yourself just a spoke in the wheel, and often an insecure, rather wobbly spoke, at that. But learn the new lesson—don't meddle with child, or either parent. Just keep your eyes shut— like you do when your reckless son is driving the ''Tin Lizzie," on one wheel around a dugway. Keep still and pray! But don't be idle. Keep busy. Find something to do that will really help your dear ones. At the same time, don't neglect the spirits of the dead who are crying out for help on the Other Side. Braid rag rugs, knit, patch, darn stockings, peel potatoes, wash dishes!— you will never fail to be welcome in any household if you work happily at these homely and healthy tasks. Write letters, keep accounts for your children. Above all, honor the son or the son-inlaw who is the head of the household wherein you may be dependent. Never allow insubordination, in your own heart, or in the heart of your daughter, to the counsels of the man of the house. Avoid pitying your daughter or yourself. Strengthen her will and your own by a firm resolve to be obedient to counsel and to honor the Priesthood. Only so can you have peace in your heart, or in her home. Do every possible thing to make others pleased and happy, then you will be happy yourself. If the Christmas finds you with only your regular darning and patching all done up, even these small tasks will be sanctified and glorified with the Christmas glow and cheer which beautify the giver and the doer of deeds far more than the receiver. Don't be dependent, don't feel dependent. Earn your way—if not with work and toil, then earn it in a far more beautiful way, with smiles and sympathy and sweet encouragement to all around you. Learn to pay daily compliments to your loved ones about the becomingness of dress, their good cooking or excellent behavior. One verbal boquet is worth a bunch of tea roses. EDITORIAL 721 The most glorious way to spend your remaining months or even years is in the temple. Persuade your children to contribute each a certain amount—if you have no financial resources of your own because you have foolishly given your children your home and property—persuade them—and they certainly owe you that much—each to pay a small monthly sum to you and with that you go to a temple for the winter, in Dixie, in Logan, or in Manti; take a tiny room, do a bit of patching and darning for your neighbors, on the days you are not in the temple, to earn a few extra dollars. O the independence of your life; O the delight of knowing someone needs you; O the joy of saving suuls; and O the peace which will come to your soul and to the souls of your children when the Christmas time comes around and they proudly say, "My mother is so happy. She spends all her time in the temple." And you reply gratefully and humbly, "How glorious is the Christmas to those who are privileged to partake, in spirit and in truth, of the Christlike mission, which is peace on earth, good will to men, here and on the Other Side! NOTE OF CORRECTION One more mistake must be corrected concerning the authorship of the story, "The Wages of Sin," which was published in the October number of the Magazine, and which has already been corrected once. Lucy Guyman Bloomfield did not write the story, but Lucy S. Burnham did. Address all communications for this department to the editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and not to the Relief Society Magazine. Add the author's name to verses, articles, or stories which may be sent in and which sometimes get separated from the letter which accompanies them. MISTAKES When a plumber makes a mistake he charges twice for it. When a lawyer makes a mistake, it is just what he wanted, because he has a chance to try the case all over again. When a carpenter makes a mistake it is just what he expected.; When a doctor makes a mistake he buries it.; men a judge makes a mistake it becomes the law of the and. When a preacher makes a mistake nobody knows the difference. When an electrician makes a mistake, he blames it on the induction; nobody knows what that means. But when an editor makes a mistake—Good night! Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) PRAYER The time: morning and evening. The place: preferdbly the best room in the house. Those taking part should face one another in a family circle: Procedure: father presides, and in his absence, the mother directs. Each member of the family of sufficient age takes turns. This practice should prevail from the day of marriage until the end of earth life. As to the matter of taking turns, children are very sensitive. One lad said to his father, 'Papa, why don't you ever give Mama a chance to pray?" A survey of the prayer habits of the students of the Brigham Young University showed more faithfulness in secret prayer than in family prayer. Relatively few were able to report that they took their turn in offering prayer in the family devotion. The survey also showed more faithfulness in attending secret prayers in the evening than. In the morning. The choice between the value of a morning and an evening prayer would seem to go decidedly in favor of the former—if we consider under which condition we need most help, awake or asleep. The Parts of the Family Prayer: The first part of the family prayer would naturally be composed of thanksgiving, pouring out of gratitude. It is quite natural and surely theological. Following this, in theological order, would come the remembrance of others. Under the instruction given by the Master we pass with love of God to love of man. See Matt. 26:37, 39. Among those never to be forgotten in our family devotion are the authorities of the Church, with special mention of the First Presidency. The value of having the prophet's name mentioned in our family devotion is greater than it is generally thought to be. Having expressed our gratitude to the Lord and remembered others before him, we come to the petition for whatever the needs of the hour of the day seem to be, and among those needs is always spiritual guidance, protection, and forgiveness. One boy in his first family prayer asked the Lord to keep scolding and quarreling out of the family for that day. This is an example of originality and frankness which should be en- GUIDE LESSONS 723 couraged and practiced in our family devotion. Every day we need forgiveness and it should be asked for with a remembrance that we must forgive others. This will foster humility and charity, two of the greatest of the virtues. These petitions suited to the needs of the hour will prevent the family prayer from becoming stereotyped. While these are the three elements of the family prayer, the order of presentation will naturally be varied. Answers to Prayers: If we can know that the Lord's view of our needs is superior to our own we shall not have our faith shaken through failing to get a quick and favorable answer to any prayer. The speed with which things are attended to in heaven is often conditioned by our conduct here. Doc. And Cov. 101:7. Sometimes there are unusual obstacles thrown in the way of our receiving an answer. Daniel 10:10-13, with attention to verse 13. Sometimes an answer is withheld because of our unreadiness to receive it, and sometimes the answer comes in a way that our expectation made it as unrecognizable to us as was the Messiah to the Jews who had been praying for him to come since the days of Abraham, but we may be certain that no consistent petition sent on the wings of faith from earth willl ever be thrown into the waste basket of heaven. Some Things to Think and Talk About: 1. Prayer is the simplest and surest way to form a loving acquaintance with the Lord. 2. Praying only when we are in distress is unmistakable evidence of both ingratitude and weakness. 3. Praying with our children will affect their salvation more than praying for them. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What do you think of this proposition: If parents neglect the Lord, their children will be apt to neglect them? 2. What was the occasion of the first prayer, and who took part therein? Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 8:44, first sentence. 3. Does this scripture indicate that this prayer was a family prayer? 4. Would an occasional concert prayer be advantageous in the family circle? 5. Wherein is the forming of a family circle, of devotional value in prayer? 6. Emulate the essential contents of the family prayer. 7. Which part of the family prayer prevents the service from becoming monotonous? 
 8. What are the difficulties in the way of regularity in family prayer, and how may they best be overcome?, Why should the ward teachers know whether we attend to our prayers or not? 10. What is the value of an intelligent "amen" to a group prayer? LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in February) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in February) Professor George Careless, noted composer and musician, has made a contribution to the hymns of the Latter-day Saints that is invaluable. In a recent conversation with Professor Careless, he said that he had set the music to seventy L. D. S. Hymns. Much of this music has been composed for special occasions. It is the purpose of this lesson to devote itself to some of these compositions. George Careless reached the valleys of the mountains in the year 1864. He had traveled from London to New York on a sailing vessel called Hudson. When they were near landing, -indeed so near to it that the effects of the ship were packed, the captain of the vessel asked Professor Careless to compose a piece of music for him. Consenting to this request, Professor Careless looked about for some place where he might rest his paper while he wrote. Finally, he discovered a barrel of bacon in the corner of the ship. He immediately made use of it, and on it wrote the music of "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," which he called Hudson. Professor Careless had been the leader of the London choir in the London branch of the Church. On the vessel with him were a group of persons who had sung in that choir. He called them together, and they learned the music quickly, and sang it to the captain. The composer presented the captain with a copy of the music before leaving the ship. It is beautiful music, set to beautiful words, and its name suggests one of America's most beautiful spots. In the month of August, 1870, a very important debate took place in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. This debate was between Dr. J. P. Newman, of Washington, D. C. And Elder Orson Pratt of the Council of Twelve. Rev. Newman was well known because of his connection with the United States Senate, having served as GUIDE LESSONS 725 chaplain of that body, while Orson Pratt was very generally looked upon as a profound student and an orator of very exceptional ability. Professor George Careless, director of the Tabernacle Choir at that time, tells us that the Sunday prior to the debate, President Brigham Young called him aside and said, "Brother George, the people will be very timid next Sunday, because of Mr. Newman's great reputation, as a preacher, therefore, I want you to sing something that will hearten and give courage to the congregation." Professor Careless tells us that he sat down in one of the choir seats and composed a piece of music on the spur of the moment. He called it "Courage" and set it to the words "Hark listen to the trumpeters." It was sung for the first time when the great assembly met to listen to the speeches that opened the famous debate. This music may be found in the L. D. S. Psalmody, published under the caption "Courage." The brief time consumed in its composition reminds one of the fact that Nevin is reputed to have written the music to the "Rosary" in fifteen minutes. Professor Careless has always exhibited a great deal of genius in writing music for special occasions, certainly this incident is no exception to the rule. In the exquisite music of "Rest for the weary soul," set to the words written by Henry W. Naisbitt, we bring together, as in "The morning breaks, the shadows flee," words and music by an L. D. S. Author and composer. This music was written to be sung at the funeral services of Joseph Young, the eldest brother of Brigham Young, who was connected with the First Council of Seventy, the father of Dr. Seymour B. Young, and the grandfather of Professor Levi Edgar Young. Later, it was sung at the service of Joseph Standing, the first martyr of the Southern States mission. The combination of Henry W. Naisbitt's words and the Careless music has produced an effect not often reached in funeral hymns. This hymn has been sung at the graves of many people connected with the Latter-day Saints Church, and with many not of its number. The key note of the entire hymn is Rest. The first stanza suggests rest from physical pain and exhaustion. The second stanza tells us that the battle of this life is over, then follows the equisite figure, Rest, where the gates are closed With each evening's setting sun. The third stanza i sdevoted to the thought of that peace that pervades the heavenly domain, "Peace, where no strife intrudes" Death brings to an end the struggle Of our "wild life's busy hum." The fourth stanza carries the same thought as the third, 
 the thought of peace, and adds that death frees the oppressed, and closes with the effective lines, "For the angels guard those well Who sleep on their mother's breast." The last stanza is a fitting climax to the hymn, it suggests peace and music, and finally the resurrection morn where "life's victory is won." From a purely literary standpoint two features distinguish this hymn. First, there is a mingling of the thought and feeling of rest and peace; secondly, the style, and under this head we note the diction, but particularly a group of effective figures of speech which, coupled with the thought and feeling, raise the hymn at times into the realm of poetry. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Give a brief sketch of the life of George Careless. Material to be found in Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. 2. Give names as nearly as possible of the persons who have served as conductors of the Tabernacle Choir. 3. Discuss the proposition: The Tabernacle choir, an important factor in establishing the musical prestige of this intermountain country. 4. What does it mean to be chaplain of the United States Senate? 5. Have the words of "Hark, listen to the trumpters" read to the group; have the organist play the Careless music, "Courage.' Listen carefully to both words and music, and see if you think the composer accomplished his purpose, that of producing a hymn that would inspire courage. 6. Give a brief sketch of the life of Henry W. Naisbitt. 7. Name the hymns in the Latter-day Saint hymn book attributed to his authorship? 8. What does the poet mean when he speaks of sleeping on mother's breast? 9. What words of the hymn carry the note of hope? 10. Discuss this proposition: A funeral hymn failing to carry the note of hope, fails in its purpose. LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in February) LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME In our previous lesson we observed two ways in which the home is regarded, first, as a preparatory school for training boys and girls for useful service in the community, the church, the