	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY

	I remember how nearly forlorn I felt some
of the time during those dismal, stormy days;
being in Bp. Whitney’s camp I was separated
from my dear mother by an almost impassable
road of mud, and was all of a quarter of a
mile away from father’s camp.  So one morn-
ing I undertook the disagreeable and perilous
journey on the back of a little white Ginnie,
which Father Lot had given to one of the Bp’s
little boys in Nauvoo, and, by the by, she had
carried me over the Mississippi the last time
that I crossed it to Sugar Creek, accompanied
by Horace on his pony.


[Column 1]	
	Ginnnie stood about three feet from the 
ground, and the mud being so deep, I felt some
dubiety about our accomplishing the journey
that day in safety, but being stimulated by a
touch of home-sickness I persevered without
regard to appearance or the mud, with which
I was gererously bespattered. On the oppo-
site side of the road from father's camp was
the camp of the Nauvoo Brass Band, and O[-]
their woe-be-gone appearance I could never for-
get; and how I looked over at them with a pity-
ing gaze from the door of my mother's wagon.
They were actually swamped in mud; but what
was most surprising, under the circumstances,
not a sad face did I behold. The women were
out around, and would give me a cheerful nod
as they were attending to their domestic duties
and all the camps were in a similar condition.
The following incident was related to me con-
cerning Bro. Wm. Pitt and wife, who, like
some of the rest, were sick with the ague
caused by the cold and wet weather, and one
night they were left behind in the mud, and
were not missed till late the next morning
when some of the band went back and found
them. Those were sorry times, but who, be-
sides the Latter-day Saints, can understand or
explain the reasons for such patience, and even
cheerfulness under like circumstances, having
been expelled, though they were law-abiding
citizens, from their homes, and at that time of
the year, enduring such hardships and priva-
tion, that would have disheartened any but
the true Saints, who were willing to make sac-
rifice and be tried, even though it be seven
times in the furnace of affliction.
	"Monday 23rd," Horace wrote, "This after-
noon, about two o'clock, had quite a hail
storm,	continued storming with
rain and hail alternately through the day and
night. Yesterday Bro. John Butler came
from Bishop Miller's camp, which is seven
miles ahead—he seems to like to be in advance
of the main body, as he always pulls up stakes
at our approach, and goes ahead with his com-
pany. Brother Butler thinks it would be a
good idea to go back twenty miles or so in or-
der to get on a road which goes through the
settlements, as the country through which we
are traveling affords scarcely any provender for
our cattle, some of them having had no susten-
ance for two days, with the exception of what
they could browse in the woods."
	On Tuesday we had snow which continued
with little cessation through the day.  "In the
afternoon," wrote Horace, "Bros. Pond and
Burns went into the country about eight miles
and bought twenty bushels of corn at twenty-
five cents a bushel—rather scarce at that price.
	To-day saw three deer carried by
our tent that had been killed by the hunters—
first that we have seen on our journey.
	"Wednesday 25th. Continued snowing
through the day till evening, when it cleared 
off pleasant. This afternoon Brother Pond
took my colt and two of our team horses into
the country with the intention of exchanging 
them for oxen.
	"Thursday 26th. Tolerably fair to-day—
hail fell a little this afternoon—saw Bp. Miller, 
P.P. Pratt, O. Pratt and George A. Smith
pass by our tent on their way home; they came
up from Bp. Miller's camp by request to hold
council.
	"Friday 27th.	This forenoon
Bro's Brigham and Heber went ahead seven
miles to Father John Smith's camp, where they
were met by Bp. Miller and where he had
formerly been encamped, but which he had
left and gone a few miles ahead. Here they
proceeded to make a new organization of the 
companies. B. Young, H.C. Kimball, P.P.
Pratt, John Taylor, Peter Haws and Bp. Mil-
ler, who had formerly been captains of com-
panies were promoted to the office of president,
and their places filled by others. In our com-

[Column 2]
pany the vacancy of the office of captain was
filled by Stephen Marham, an able and effici-
ent officer. In each company there was ap-
pointed two commissaries and a clerk. In our
company the leading commissary is David
Yearsley. His business is to go ahead and en-
gage grain, procure jobs for the company, etc.
Our distributing commissary is Jedediah M.
Grant, whose business it is to distribute corn,
oats, etc., when brought into the camp. Our
clerk is John Pack, whose business it is to re-
cord all essential matters pertaining to the com-
pany.
	"Saturday, 28th. To-day a council was held,
but little was done except ratifying what was
done yesterday at Father Smith's camp.
The roads are improving, though there are
some very bad places ahead yet, as we learn
from our men who occasionally go out in pur-
suit of game, which in this section consists
principally of deer and turkeys. There has
been a number of them already brought into
camp."
	Bishop Whitney disposed of a feather bed
at this place valued at $9.00 in exchange for
a cow, with a man living six or seven miles in
the country. Brother Pond returned, having
disposed of the colt and another team horse
for two yoke of oxen. He had been over in
the State of Missouri where he made the trade,
and one of the oxen proving lame Brother
Pond swapped him for another, giving $9.00
"to boot;" On the 31st O.P. Rockwell re-
turned from Nauvoo. My husband and broth-
er Wm. received some papers from Phineas
Kimball, brother-in-law to Sarah M. Kimball.
Porter started back to Nauvoo in a few days.
	Wednesday, April 1st, Horace wrote, "Brig-
ham, with all the camp except our fifty, start-
ed on their journey—intend going only six
miles to Father Smith's camp, where they are
to wait till we come up in order to hold a
council. To-day father's company employed
themselves in making ox yokes and doing
other chores necessary for the journey.
This evening wrote a letter to Nauvoo for H.
C. Kimball."
	Thursday, 2nd.  "About half past eight
struck our tents and proceeded to Father
Smith's camp on Shoal Creek, where we found
Bro. Brigham.		When we
arrived they were holding council. Bro. Kim-
ball went to it and returned with the news that
we were going on; consequently his company—
the artillery and some others went on five
miles farther and encamped on Prarie Creek,
a branch of Shoal Creek, leaving Bro Brig-
ham's company behind—were piloted a short 
distance by Bishop Miller and another brother
who then rode on to their camp.
Took leave of Porter at Brigham's camp, who
returns to Nauvoo to-day the bearer of several
letters. This day quite cloudy, but no rain.
Before leaving Shoal Creek camp unloaded one
of my wagons and sent it after corn with an-
other, putting the load on one of the other
wagons. Crossed the Missouri State line this
afternoon."
	"Friday, 3rd. This morning soon after
breakfast Brigham's company overtook us—
after stopping a few minutes went on to Bish-
op Miller's camp, where they intend to feed.
During last night three of our oxen strayed
away, consequently were detained after the
rest of the company had left. I proceeded on
foot to Bishop Miller's camp—had not gone far
before it commenced raining, which continued
through a greater part of the day and night."
Some of our experience during those days
could not be written, neither could time erase
them from my memory. This day that he
last mentions the road lay over a prarie, and
the earth being soft and inundated with the
previous rains, all that could were obliged to
walk to favor the poor animals. Our feet
would sink into the deep mud at every step,

[Column 3]
and some of us came near being minus of
shoes; as for umbrellas, they were rare articles,
and we had the cold, pitiless rain beating
down upon us all the way till we were chilled
and shaking with the cold, and were very
grateful to find a sheler and a comfortable fire
in Bishop Miller's tent, where something warm
was given us to drink before ascending the
steep hill on the opposite side of Shoal Creek.
Bishop Miller was encamped on the south fork
of that strem, and father took his company
on to the top of the hill, where we encamped.
Horace continues,  "Thinking the rain might
hinder father from coming on, I started back,
had not gone far before I met Brother John-
son (of the artillery) who informed me that 
father had recovered his cattle, the men sent
out in pursuit having found a man in the act 
of driving them off,		being
about twelve miles from here, he is said to
have been seen in our camp this morning.
Father started about one o'clock and arrived
here at three p.m., and encamped with Bro. 
Kimball's company. We had not been here
more than two hours before the team that had
been sent out in pursuit of corn arrived, bring-
ing fifty-one bushels. After ascending the 
hill Brigham with his company continued on.
	Joseph Kingsbury broke one
of the thills of his buggy this morning soon
after starting, occasioned by the horse jumping
suddenly."
	"Saturday, 4th. From the rain of the pre-
vious day and night the little creek on which
we are encamped is much swollen; continued
raining through the day and night, consequent-
ly had to remain with pitched tents."
	"Sunday, 5th. This morning the sun arose
in unclouded splendor. Brother Kimball
called the poeple of the camp together and ex-
horted them to the observance of several du-
ties which had hitherto been neglected—one
of which was that the captain of each ten
should call his company together and partake 
of the sacrament, which was accordingly 
done."
	On waking next morning we found it rain-
ing, and continued on without cessation till
evening, when it had the appearance of clear-
ing off, but all at once, as Horace describes it,
"the sky was obscured with dark heavy clouds,
the distant roaring of the wind was heard,
which accompanied by a cold rain, soon burst
upon us with all its fury, blowing off hats and
caps,and prostrating the tents, of which but few
were found standing in the morning. Though 
the storm, or rather hurricane, continued the
most of the night, but little other damage was
sustained, except the inconvenience of being
wet by the constant dripping of the rain
through the covers of the wagons, where we
slept, or rather, passed the night."
	I remember this very well. The camps were
about ready to retire to rest when the storm
overtook us; some were in the act of evening
worship and others were preparing their beds
or closing their tents and wagons for the night,
when the hurricane overtook us "as a thief in
the night," and not a wagon cover or tent could
withstand it except the ones that were fastened
down. Those who had no covering sought
shelter with the ones that had till morning,
when the tents were pitched and things right-
ed. Next day it was very cold and windy,
though tolerably fair. The day previous men
had again been sent into the country for corn.
	To be Continued.


