BY HANNAH T. KING.

The clock strikes twelve! another year is gone!
Yes, passed and gone into eternity
As stars sink into space, as morning
The mind runs back into the moonlit past
As natural as it draws the light of life—
Runs down the vista of recorded time
Our steps meandering have traveled o'er;
The voices and the music float again
Over the retrospective ear of love;
Filial, parental, and fraternal love.
Our ear is quicken'd, and those glorious chimes,
That erst rang in the new auspicious morn,
Burst vividly from out this page of memory,
In tongues inspiriting with life and joy.

We stand upon a gentle eminence;
Our eye—the eye of mind feels strained	zing—
Gazing back into the far off past.
We try to crowd the past into a thought,
A retrospective thought, and live it o'er
Again—but the brain grows dizzy, refusing
To embody it—but memory rises up,
And by its mystic aid I note the
Sunny spots—the sunlight still upon them;
And the flowers of memory still cast
Their perfume, e'en to where I stand to-day,
With all the mystical associations
That flowers—like music—ever bring.

Yonder—a long way off, I see as 'twere
A speck—of almost my infantine days,
Guarded and tended by the eyes of love,
The voice of wisdom, and the hand of care.
And yonder, far away, I see the dark
And gloomy spots I traveled o'er in days
Long past—e'en in my childhood's hour—long ago
How they broke my heart, yea, shook my brain,
And left me like a stranded bark upon
Life's dark and turbid waters, and I see,
E'en where I stand, the spot where it was staid.
I seem to hear a voice that said, "Be still—
No more contend to mix thy waters with
The sweet and sparkling river of her life."
And there its waves were stay'd, and still they stay;
And on I pressed, and worked my heart and brain
To make some flowers spring beneath my feet.
I can see the little altars—childlike—
That I raised—where'er I went I had a shrine;
The earth my hassock; in the sky was God,
The Temple of my worship and my love!
Praying for light, for happiness and peace,
Struggling upward to my soul's desire,
Thro' the chaotic mass of childish ignorance;
Thus I retrace my youthful course of life,
On, and on, till maturity was gained,
And peace and satisfaction were attained.

Again I look, and lo! a mighty change
Evolves—that changes all my course of life!
I see the pathway broken up and rough,
And pitfalls all around that fright my soul,
And gazing still, a mighty sea I cross,
With all its storms and tempests overhead;
And then a range of mountains we must cross,
But flowers, and birds, and nature's beauties
Spring around the path interminable.
Thus we travel on for days and weeks, yea, months,
With many "ills that flesh is heir to,"
And bitter sorrow, language never tells
Enough, that death closes up that scene for aye.
Like one of old I cried, "Lord, save; I perish."
My heart and brain in mercy hold; I'M THINE,
My Father, for time and all eternity—
I dedicate myself, my all, to Thee!
Accept, release, and send me peace, thy peace
The world can never give or take away.
It came, softly, calmly, certainly it came,
Came distilling like the morning dew—
The sun effulgent rose—and I was saved! 

[Column 2]

Sweet peace came back, and threw her downy mantle
O'er me, never more again to leave me quite.
Clouds may flit above my head, around my path,
But never can I suffer as in days
Now past among the things that were for aye;
I still am human—still may err unwisely,
Yes, still in full may lack the attributes
That make indeed a Saint of God complete;
But still the sweet assurance has been given
That struggling on the vict'ry I shall win,
If calmly, bravely—struggling to the end.

Life is a mystery! and thick the veil
That hides the spiritual from the actual,
A cranny now and then emits a glimpse
Of glories, which e'en imagination
Fails to grasp and rivet on the human brain.
'Tis like a twinkling vision of the eye,
Evanescent—startling—thrilling—and is gone.


[Column 1]

