"NOTHING LOST."
	As we look around us in the laboratory of
nature, we find that motion is one of the gov-
erning laws of the Universe; we see it in the
shaking of an aspen leaf, the trembling of a
dewdrop, or the swelling of an ocean. Motion
involves change, and this change is made man-
ifest in the most subtle movements.  The silent
dropping of water wears away the hardest
rock; the water itself is converted into vapor
which rises to form the clouds; these condense,
and in the form of rain percolate the soil
filter through the everlasting hills, return to
the original condition, pure, cold water, com-
pletes the cycle, yet nothing has been lost.
	Again we see this change in the erosion of
the grand old mountains by the wind, the rain
and the frost.  Here chiseling the rock into
grotesque forms of architecture, reminding one
of the old castles in the days of chivalry, with
parapet and gable, and moss-grown tower—
yonder hurling the sand with such force
against the stony masses that the sharp angles
of the particles cut like myriads of diamond
points, carving their way through the bulwark
of rock, leaving the dolomite standing like
giant sentinels guarding the pass to the "En-
chanted Valley"—the form is changed, but no-
thing is lost.
	Then we see the furrowing of the plains by
the rivers as they sweep irresistibly onward to
the ocean, carrying in their embrace the mate-
rial for new continents, and the ocean ceaseless-
ly lashing its rock-bound coast gradually en-
croaches upon the land, moulding its beach in-
to varied forms of beauty.  The mighty reefs
that have taken the little coral insects thou-
sands of years to build, the roaring cataract,
the deep, dark caverns with their colossal col-
umns of solid masonry, all containing the ac-
cumulated strength of ages, yet all are subject
to change.
	If we enter the domain of the vegetable
kingdom, we find organization and disorgani-
ation constantly taking place.  The building
up of inorganic matter into organic com-
pounds, which after aggregating and arriving
at maturity, bear seed, and by the process of
decay return to the elements from which they
were elaborated.  The solid particles sink to
the earth that cradled them, while the volatile
matters escape into the great atmospheric res
ervoir from which they were drawn—the cycle
is complete—nothing is lost.
	In the life of man, says Draper, there is no
going back;  the morose old veteran cannot re-
turn to the genial confidence of early man-
hood, the youth cannot return to the idle and
useless occupations of boyhood, even the boy is
parted by a long step from the innocent credu-
lity of the nursery.  The course of man is
progressive, yet he should not accept the de-
ception that all that he does is determined by
his own volition, for at the close of our days
we learn how great is the illusion, and that we
have been swimming and struggling in a
stream which in spite of all our voluntary mo-
tions has silently and resistlessly borne us to a 
predetermined shore—a shore we all must 
reach; but this is not the end—all is not lost.
	Man may well stand appalled when he sheds
the last bitter tear over some departed loved
one, if he contemplate only upon the havoc
relentless nature will so soon make upon the 
hallowed form before him; that perhaps in
years to come some sturdy oak will sink its
rootlets into the earth and take up all that re-
mains of the one he cherished.  This is true
transmigration of matter, but not of soul. The
casket from which the glittering gem is gone
is consigned to the cold embrace of earth, and
although the casket itself yields to the irrevo-
cable decree of decay and dissolution, its or-
ganic compounds resolving themselves into the
inorganic constituents from which they were
eleborated, all moulding into apparent nothing-
ness—yet nothing is lost.
	To the materialist who looks upon man as a
creature who lives and moves and has his being
upon this planet, and at last wraps his drapery
around him and lies down, not to "pleasant
dreams," but to dream no more, how insignifi-
cant the end must appear, and what a mockery
is life.  Then would the Cyreniac's theory of
happiness be the one to accept, that of the idea
of pleasure being the chief aim in life, but
anon the end cometh, which to the materialist
is annihilation.  Ah! but 'tis not so, the soul,
the intangible is preserved, no corrupting influ-
ence it to affect, no corrosive agent to destroy,
freed from its mortal clay, it wings its way to
its God, there to await and obey His man-
dates.
	Man can discover the eternal in the van-
ishing of present events, and through the
shadows of time.  Contend as he may that all
is lost when this life ceases, but when the "last
bitter hour comes," his physical powers weak-
ened and exhausted can no longer control the
strong spirit which yearns for its better home.
It was this that caused one of the greatest athe-
lists while upon his death bed to exclaim, "Oh
God! if there be a God, accept my sould if I
have a soul!"
	When we contemplate upon the influence of
man, we find that it does not perish with the
individual, but may be felt through all coming
time.  The divine influence of Christ has come
down through the centuries, and has been a
balm to thousands of human hearts; the truths
that were discovered by the ancients exert
their influence upon the world to-day, they
are just as potent now as they were then; the
teachings imparted at a mother's knee have guid-
ed men to the highest pinnacle of honor and re-
nown; words of purity and love emanating from
honest hearts have been the guiding star to
thousands who without them would have been
wrecked on the quicksands of life; a little
psalm inspired ages ago has come singing down
through the centuries, and has been a beacon
light to myriads of storm-tossed mariners.
	The good that men do is never lost, but ra-
diates from them and imbues with its benign
influence all that comes within its sphere, just
as heat radiates from the solar centre and gives
warmth to the surrounding media.  The good
and the evil that men do is not "interred with
their bones," and the evil also had its sphere of
dissemination, contaminating all who partake
of its influence. Would that the grave could
as effectually cover up the crimes of men as it
does their wasted tabernacles; but 'tis not so,
the wrong remains as a witness to condemn
the oracle that sent it forth.  "It needs be that
evil comes, but woe unto them by whom it
comes." Woe unto those who attempt to mar
the fair face of truth, crush the innocent, and
with the dark drawn dagger of the mind
"drink deep the crimson current of the heart,"
dark is the record they leave behind them,
dark will be the hour of reckoning.
	Truth is the principle that men should most
seek after, for it is eternal, and he who finds it
and shows it to the world has accomplished a
work that can never be lost.
	"Go seek for the truth, 'tis the brightest prize
	To which mortals or Gods can aspire;
	Go search in the depths where it glittering lies,
	Or ascend in pursuit to the loftiest skies,
	'Tis an aim for the noblest desire."

	Nations rise and fall, empires are only sand-
hilss in the hour glass of time, they crumble
spontaneously away by the process of their own
growth," but their influence is not lost, that
which is good remains through all coming time,
and aids in guiding the destinies of nations
that are to follow.
	Man should come to the conclusion that his
chief concern is with himself, that his influ-
ence in this world is not lost, but lives after
him to exalt or to condemn. "Thou wast alone
at the time of thy birth; thou wilt be alone at 
the moment of death; alone thou must answer
at the bar of the Eternal Judge."
