THE TENTH PLAGUE OF EGYPT.

Egypt, the mighty queen of earth, haughty and
Proud, had dared to measure arms with
The poor Hebrew’s God.
Joseph and his great work were long forgotten
Or ignored by him who now the sceptre
Swayed with iron hand;
Israel, the foster-child, was now a slave,
Bending beneath the heavy load and galling
Chains of thraldom.
Long had their cries ascended unto heaven
Unto their God, forgotten, maybe, in their
Brightest hours,
But the All-merciful heard and forgave,
And now the time for their deliverance
Had come; Moses with his mighty
Rod stood forth at God's command to
Lead them out of bondage.
Pharaoh had laughed to scorn the 
Mandates of Jehovah to let His people go
To worship, and fulfill their covenants
To Him, had sneering asked if it
Was with the breath of children, the
White hairs of second childhood or
The straws of their brick-kilns that the
Eternal throne of Egyyt was to be confounded.
To Moses the Lord had said:
"I have made thee a God to Pharaoh and
Aaron shall be thy prophet;
Speak unto him all that I command thee,"
So undaunted had they stood, yet meek
And helpless (so far as mortal aid was theirs)
Before the king and his fierce soldiers,
With ax and spear ready to drink their blood;
Nine times had that mysterious rod been
Lifted o'er Egypt, and each time been
Followed with new horrors, the thought
Alone of which to-day turns the heart
Sick and faint; yet was the
Hebrew still in chains.
	Egypt, though desolate, unyielding still,
Then said the Lord to Moses, yet one more
Plague will I bring to Pharaoh and
Egypt, then surely will he let you go,
"Say now unto my people take of the 
Blood of a lamb and sprinkle the
Lintel and the two side posts, and
None of them shall go out of the door
Of his house until the morning,
For at midnight shall I go forth to
Smite all the first born of Egypt, and
They shall die; but I will pass by my
People that hearken to my command,
That all may know that I am the Lord in
The midst of the earth."
	Ah, fearful night that followed, such
As the world had never known before
Nor will again;
Surely as night crept down all Egypt
Must have felt the coming doom.
We read with careless eye in holy writ,
"The first-born of the land shall die;"
But can we realize its dire fulfillment?
From the king's palace to the home low,
Death in its fearful march this night shall go.
No home but had its dead, from each
Came forth the ery of bitter woe and wild
Despair, and the beast, too, mourned their
Dead with almost human grief;
While above the wall of lamentation
A voice was heard proclaiming,
"This for the blood of the Hebrew children;"
Surely their's had not cried to heaven
In vain.

	Can any dream what Hebrew parents
Felt in their long watch that night?
For surely not an eye was closed, as in
Deep awe and heartfelt prayer they
Watched and waited, hearing the
Wail of their oppressor's mortal anguish;
Their wild, fierce lamentation,
Then with what job heard they the words
Of the stricken king--
"Get ye forth from among my people."
Then were their fetters broken, then
Did a nation of slaves breathe the
Sweet breath of freedom, and with
Faces set towards Canaan's land went
Forth to offer sacrifice and songs of
Praises to God, their great Deliverer.		HOPE. 

[Column 2]
	EXERCISE.--Exercise is a necessity; it pros
longs life, and greatly improves living; it fits
us better for our duties; without it, we do not 
more than half live.  He only who exercises
sufficiently can know the joy of good health-
good digestion, refreshing sleep.  It causes the
blood to circulate quickly, freely, and equally,
and will drive away the blues.  It increases
respiration, thus bringing a larger quantity of 
the elixir of life, oxygen, to purify and vital-
ize the blood.  It rounds and hardens the mus-
cles, and educates them into ever-ready, faith-
ful and efficient servants of the will.  It lim-
bers the joints and strenthens every part of 
the body.  It invigorates the mind, and ren-
ders it active and efficient in all its operations.
--Ex.


A stranger, journeying in France, fell sick
unto death. His friend called in a physician,
who demurred about giving him professional
services, fearing the wherewithal might not be
forthcoming to settle his bill. The friend, pro-
ducing a one hundred franc bill, said:
	"Kill him or cure him, this is yours."
	The sick man died and was buried, and the
doctor, finding his money slow to appear, re-
minded the survivor of the debt.
	"Did you cure him?" he asked.
	"No, sir."
	"Did you kill him?"
	"Certainly not."
	"Then you have no claim on me, sir. I wish
you good-day."


