SANPETE STAKE

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Sanpete Stake of Zion, held
at Moroni, Dec. 15th, 1883, President M. A. P.
Hyde presiding, assisted by her Counselors,
Sisters E. Allred and S. Peterson. Conference
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer, reading of minutes and reports. Presi-
dents of the various branch societies gave ver-
bal reports, also bore faithful testimonies to the
Latter-day work.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde addressed the confer-
ence. Spoke of the difference between the
present time and twenty years ago, when
mothers had to toil and spin, etc.
	Sister Sarah Peterson gave an account of her
visit to the east; dwelt upon the different relig-
ions of the world. Spoke concerning the gath-
ering of wheat; said Brigham Young was a
Prophet of God; and he encouraged it. Im-
pressed the mothers to exert an influence
with their sons and daughters to keep them
pure and spotless, so that they might be pre-
pared to enter into the house of the Lord.
	Helen A. Madsen, Stake President of the
Primary Associations of Sanpete Stake, spoke
on the subject of celestial marriage; said those
who were entering into it were going into a
higher school, and it would save and exalt
them in the Kingdom of God.
	Bishop Irons felt to greet the sisters in con-
ference, and asked the blessings of Almighty
God to rest upon them, etc.
	Singing. Benediction. Conference adjourned
to meet again at 1:30 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. Sister E. Allred addressed the sisters
on our many privileges, which, if we lived up
to, would prove a great blessing unto us.
Prayed God to bless the sisters of Moroni.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde bore her testimony on
celestial marriage; and said that she was sealed
to her husband by the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and had lived in that order now forty years,
and knew and realized that it was a glorious

[Column 3]
principle. She than sang in tongues, which
was very heavenly.
	Bishop Allred was thankful for Relief So-
cieties, and all associations that were organized
by command of the Lord. Dwelt upon the
law of tithing, etc., etc.
	Bishop Madsen testified that the Spirit of
the Lord had been in our midst throughout
the conference. Advised the sisters to teach,
and do all the good they could, and the Lord
would bless them.
	At the close of the conference the Moroni
Brass Band played some lively tunes, and
charmed the people with their enlivening
music. Conference adjourned to meet at Foun-
tain Green, March 15th, 1884.
			MARY A. HYDE, Secretary,
			NORAH ROBINSON, Asst. Scc'y.

