THE NEW YEAR, 1881.

	A Happy New Year to all our friends and pat-
rons, and may it be a prosperous one indeed.
Utah has good prospects if things can take their
legitimate course. The great fuss being made
all over the world and through the pulpit and
press will do no real harm, if no more positive
adverse legislation is pushed—but men, anxious
to obtain power and influence, are busy with
divers schemes and plots to undermine and des-
troy that which more than thirty years of hard
and constant toll has built up. Should these
politicians and demagogues succeed in their
wicked machinations to bring down persecution
upon the "Mormons" again, it would only mill-
tate against them, for disgrace and punishment
ever follows with relentless hand those who
seek to build themselves upon the ruin of others.
It is no less true of peoples than individuals.
Where are those who bitterly persecuted the
Saints in Missouri and Illinois? Have they rid-
den to popularity on this "Mormon" hobby
they are so fond of parading before the public?
No, emphatically no. They have gradually sunk
into insignificance, or have died ignominious
deaths, so sure does retribution follow those who
seek to exalt themselves by crying others down.
Utah deserves prosperity, the labors of her peo-
ple have been worthy of such a result, worthy
of statehood, but it remains with Congress to
prove how far they will comply with the inter-
ceedings of the majority, and secnre to the citi-
zens of this growing Territory the rights and 
privileges accorded under the flag of American
freedom.
	However, there is great hope that the new 
year may bring peace and plenty, and that Utah
may continue to be in the future still prosper-
ous, her homes still happy, her people following
out the great and grand principles that have
been advocated and taught by wise men and
patriots in all ages.
	And hoping and believing all will work to-
gether for good to those who serve God and work
righteousness, we again most heartily wish all a
happy new year.


[Column 1]

