HAVE WE CHARITY?
  I cannot blame the world for the view they
take of the order of celestial marriage.  With
the spirit of the world how dreadful would be its
consequences.  St. Paul says the carnal mind is
not subject to the will of God, neither indeed
can be.  Accordingly envy, hatred, and malice
must be the result.  With this spirit they may
well fear to marry even one wife.  Being of dif-
ferent temperaments and differently educated
there is danger of giving offence at any time
besides those who live for pleasure would be
taxed with too many burdens to enjoy a life of
ease and comfort.  Looking at this side of the
question how foolish to marry at all.  I think
they have forgotten, or they do not wish to
know what our Savior says upon the subject,
that is, "The man is not without the woman,
or the woman without the man, in the Lord."
We are not perfect, nor can we attain to perfec-
tion without each other.  The spirit of the Gos-
pel being opposite to the spirit of the world.
This spirit brings faith, hope and charity, com-
bined with purity of purpose and sincerity of
heart.  With these virtues the burdens of a
family would be a pleasure, because prompted
by the right motive.  The Lord judges by the
motives and intents of the heart, which are all
known to Him, because He knows what spirit
we are in possession of.  All spirits are known
to Him.  I believe that every one of the evil
spirits had access to our Savior at the time He
fasted forty days and forty nights.  Then He ob-
tained power over them all, because He did not
yield to their promptings.  He did not command
those stones to become bread, or cast Himself
from the pinnacle of the Temple.  He knew
those evil spirits from that time henceforth; and
He knows when we cherish them in our bosoms.
We are told that God made us in His own im-
age; do we not then possess a germ of the Deity
within our hearts; consequently little children
are fit for the Kingdom of God, as the Savior
said they were; accordingly they deserve to have
righteous parents, those who fear to offend an
all wise Father, yea, even the Creator of all
things, for by Him they are and were created,
and a commandment given to progress as He
had designed they should.  Why then do they
who take the opposite course expect the blessing
of God our Father to attend their efforts.  Do
they deserve it?  Do they deserve to be honored
and beloved in their declining years by a God-
fearing posterity; for such children would fear
to offend their earthly parents.  I believe they
honor and respect us even as we honor and love
the laws of God.  They may be tempted and
led from the straight and narrow path for a sea-
son, but by the earnest prayers of their parents
they will see their folly and return at the some fu-
ture time.  If we learn by contrast they will do
the same.  But you ask, is it wisdom to raise a
posterity when you cannot properly educate and
clothe them?  This is well thought of.  But this
is not all they need.  A good moral and relig-
ious training will do more for them even though
they are poor, because with this they will be
lovers of intelligence and, with it, will see the
propriety of developing their abilities, and will
make a proper use of their talents and time.
How many can you find who labored with their
own hands for their support and saved money
to attend school, where they have received prac-
tical education which made them useful mem-
bers of society.  Is not Benjamin Franklin one
of this class?  He progressed until he received a
diploma as Master of Arts.  He had a common
education, it is true, yet he considered him e f a
self-mace man as to science,the higher advance-
ment, How many people have I known who
have gone with a few others to some remote
valley and settled there; rearing good families
who hardly had time to devote three months in
the year to book learning, yet in learning from
observation they could not be surpassed.  But
those people were a righteous people, who feared
God and observed His laws; those who remem-
bered the words of the Savior; "He who hear-
eth these sayings of mine and doeth them, I
will liken him to the man who built his house
upon a rock, etc.  And the rains descended and
the floods cams and the winds blew and beat
npon that house, and it fell not, bscanse it was
founded upon a rock. While those who take
the opposite course were compared to the man
who built his house upon the sand. I have
learned by observation that there are people who
come to these valleys full of faith, and seem to
be full ef intelligence, as to worldly objects; they
are active and energetic, etc but as soon as
they begin to prosper in temporal things they
have no time to pray oreven to ask a blessing
upon their food. Allis business, business, nn-
til they can accomplish their purpose. By this
time they have lost the spirit of thanking the
Lord for blessings, but take credit of their own
abilities, and proceed in their own strength.
Finally conclude to spend their time in looking
at the faults of others, not thinking of their
own (for we all have some weak point in enr na-
tures which if not guarded will cause us to
Stumble, or become a stumbling block to some
one else). I would ask, what kind of families
would such people raise? For we are told that
he who cannot govern self is not fit to govern
others. There is a large percentage of that class
however. How many I cannot tell.
 Our Savior compared the Kingdom of heaven
to ten virgins, five were wise and five were fool-
ish. The foolish said unto the wise give ua of
your oil for onr lamps have gone out. Accord-
ingly they went to sleep In a cold state, and
awoke in the same condition. For it seems that
both the wise and foolish slept. But those who
had the oil were easily lighted. So also with
the Saints, those who live according to the rules
our Savior has given to all the human family
will possess a portion of Hla Spirit even in pro-
portion to the rules they live by. This light and.,
intelligence will fill their minds with the true
light which St. John speaks of. He saya.lt light-
eth every one who cometh into the world.
But this Is not all: for it teaches us to be self-sec-
rifloing people. “If a man compel thee to go a
mile, go twain; If he smite thee on the cheek
turn the other also. Bless them who persecute
you; bless and curse not.” Tula is called the
higher law. None but noble,mind can condes-
cend to do this. And why do they? Beoauee
they know that those who persecute are foolish
virgins, they have not the oil the Savior spoko
of. Yet there will be a people who must obey
the higher Jaw to prepare the way for the second,
coming of our Savior to the earth.
 Such a people can live In that holy order
known as plural marriage. They can love their
neighbors as themselves, and deal out even-
handed justice to all. They may fiot live as
perfectly as they ought to-day-—but It will be
done in peifeotion sometime.
 Not only be, but we will have a kingdom of
peace, where none shall molest or make us
afraid. And the time spoken of by the prophets,
raying that “he who will not take up his sword
against his neighbor must needs flee to Zion for
safely.” This will be the result of the sacrifices
we are making to-day. 'Nor do wo make these
sacrifices in vain. This will produce a pure state
of society. A pure love, which is not the cold,
sordid love of worldly gain. No, we will reach
a higher mood, a noblerestimate of man. Be
earnest in the search for good, anu speak of all.
the best we can. This Is the faith of
M. E. Kimball."


Minnesota sends to Congress this year the
first Scandinavian ever elected to the national
legislature. His name is Kanute Neilson, and
he represents a race of men who are fast gain-
ing prominence in the politics of the North-
west.
	An illiterate man who was violently de-
nouncing the presumption of women in asking
for the ballot, was asked by an intelligent lady
where he derived the right to settle the matter.
"What right,"said she, "has any man in just-
ice to say we ladies shall or shall not vote?
You have the power, but whence did it come?
Is it an inherent right of man, or is it an usur-
pation and an assumption of a privilege that
really belongs to all? What right have you to
say to me that I shall not exercise a privilege
that you enjoy, especially when I have a large,
property and you have none? You have the
power to vote a tax upon my property, and I
have no power to defend myself. Is it right?
Is it just?" The logic of the lady set us think-
ing.—Ex.


