LORENZO M. RICHARDS.

	It is always painful to record the death of an esteemed
friend, but a duty and a privilege as well, to pay res-
pect and offer sympathy to those bereaved in the time
of trial. Brother Richards died in Ogden City, at the
residence of his father, Apostle F. D, Richards, on the
morning of December 21st, ult., aged 26 years. He was
a young man of great promise and had been a very ac-
tive and energetic business man, even though so young.
He was honored and admired, we might with safety say,
beloved by all who had the pleasure of his acquaintance.
His death was the result of an accident which occurred
while he was riding about six months before his demise.
His suffering a greater part of the time was most in-
tense, yet he was ever patient and marvelously cheerfnl
considering his physical pain.
	From a child he has always manifested a love for the
Gospel, and had unwavering faith in its principles. His
integrity was unquestioned, and his love of humanity
unbounded. During the long and severe illness of Br.
Richards he was carefully and faithfully nursed and
tended by his wife, his mother, and sister his father
and brothers also sharing the watching and attention
day and night.
	There are many who mourn with the family of Bro.
and Sister Richards, and deeply and truly sympathize
with them in their sorrow, but it is vain to offer conso-
lation to those bereaved until some tears have given re-
lief, then the words of Scripture and divine truth are the
sweetest that can be given to the human heart. Jesus
died and rose again, even so those who sleep in Jesus
shall also live again with Him. The same body which
is buried will rise again, purified and glorified. Paul
says, "It is sown in corruption, it is raised in glory, etc."
	The true Latter-day Saint does not fear death, it is
the rending asunder of the ties of affection that is pain-
ful. Bro. Lorenzo did not fear death, but he wished to
live to fill his mission on the earth, and he was abund-

[Column 2]

dantly happy in his home ties. May our Father in mer-
cy soften the grief of his young wife, of his father and
mother, and help them to look beyond the grave to the
immortal reunion in the celestial kingdom, is our most
sincere prayer.

