UTAH COUNTY.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Utah County, held in the
meeting house, Provo City, Nov. 3rd, 1883,
Counselor Mary John presiding. Ma Smoot
was with us again, also Sister Zina D.H.
Young. Meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer, reading of minu-
tes of former conference; also reading of the
Resolutions of Respect to Margaret Ann Cluff,
who since our last conference had left us for a
holier sphere.
	Sister John felt thankful to see Sister
Smoot with us again, and to see the house
so well filled with the sisters. Would like to
hear from the president of each society, as
there were no written reports this conference.
	The presidents, but with few exceptions,
some being absent, responded to the call, re-
ported a good feeling generally among the sis-
ters, and a desire to do all in their power to
care for the poor and the needy, and to help to
build up the Kingdon of God, but as a general
thing it was the faithful few who were ready to
respond to every call made upon them.
	Ma Smoot made an effort to speak to the sis-
ters, but her feelings so overcame her that she
could not say what she wished. She said, "My
sisters, I feel more than I can express; I am
happy to be in your midst again, and to see so
many faces here to greet me. I pray that I
may yet be able to be with you again; I feel to
bless you in the name of Jesus, and I pray the
Lord God of Israel to bless you all. Amen."
	Sister Young said, if I should do justice to
my feelings I should like to sit still and listen
to the sisters. The Spirit of God is in our
midst. The spirit that is within us creates an
influence around us. Evil influences are as
contagious as small-pox, Let us purge our-
selves of every iniquity; let us have faith in
God, and not fear, for when our hearts are
filled with fear we cannot have faith. We
have a beacon light ahead to guide us, let us
make fast our feet in the Gospel of Christ; we
are making rapid strides but sometimes I
think we are very slow. Let us not put any-
thing between us and the Spirit of God. Sis-
ter Young spoke a short time in the interest
of the silk. Bore her testimony also to the
truth of celestial marriage; said that the Proph-
et Joseph was told that this work could not
progress till celestial marriage was practiced.
	Sister Beebe, President of the Utah County
Silk Association, spoke in the interest of the so-
ciety; told in brief what they were doing, and
what they were trying to do, etc. A sister at
her house was weaving silk, had woven forty-
five yards; some of it was woven for handker-
chiefs; there was one dress pattern, a small
check black and white, twilled very nice; the
goods were on exhibition at the stand. The sis-
ters were invited to come and inspect them at
the close of the meeting; there was also some
silk prepared for filling another piece of goods,
cleansed and colored by Sister Beebe; it was a
bright blue, and will make nice material for
dresses when woven, it is in the loom now. The
silk business, in Utah County, is progressing
slowly but surely. Conference adjourned till
2 p.m.
	Afternoon session opened with singing and
prayer. A few of the presidents reported their
societies, after which Sister Young spoke again
on various subjects; first in the interest of the
Deseret Hospital, thanking the sisters for their
help, said their expenses were great and their
income small.
	The speaker spoke of the deep laid plans to
overthrow this people, of the secret societies
that were being organized for that purpose, etc.
She advised the sisters to read the papers an
become informed of what was transpiring

[Column 2]
the world; and said, rear your children in hab-
its of industry. When we are gone our child-
ren will have to carry on our work. Never
speak lightly of anyone before your children,
they remember it, and may speak of it again.
The Gospel enters into our everyday life.
Help those that are weak, do not condemn any-
one. I believe there is an increase of faith
among the sisters. Let us pray that Ma
Smoot may stay with us till she does the work
for her dead friends.
	We know in whom we trust. It is those
that are looking for Him that will be ready
when He comes. We are drawing nearer to
our God; let us invite the good spirit; we do not
know what a power it is, shielding us from evil.
God is merciful, let us humble ourselves be-
fore Him. My heart is full. I pray that the
peace of God may be with us and around about
us forever.
	Sister Tiffany bore her testimony to the
truth of this work, and also spoke in tongues,
which was interpreted by Sister Young.
	Bro. John said he had been pleased in listen-
ing to the remarks of the sisters, could endorse
what had been said; spoke on the word of wis-
dom. We must be Saints in very deed; we
must not oppose the law of God. Our enemies
are trying to destroy us; we must get more of
the Holy Spirit, and it will help us even unto
death. Be kind to each other, sustain those
over you, and if any have done wrong let
them have a chance to reform, and be humble
and wise. We cannot be too humble, etc.
	Bishop Johnson followed with a few remarks,
exhorting all to faithfulness in performing
every duty. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction by Bishop Johnson.
				CAROLINE DANIELS,
							Secretary.

