A DAUGHTER OF THE PATRIOTS.

Dear Editor.
	In reading the 15th of November number of
the EXPONENT I must say with you, that the
time has come when to remain silent would be
an "ignominious reproach," let us therefore
bring Truth into the field to grapple with
Falsehood, "and throw down the gauntlet in
defense of our own honor," in the defense of 
our homes, our chastity, and our liberty; in the
defense of our children's rights, born under the
bright flag of liberty, the ensigin of freedom to
all nations, as the haven of rest for the op-
pressed of all countries. What was it that in-
stigated the Fathers of our Country to revolt
against the rule of England? Was it to ag-
grandize themselves, to gain conquests, to gain
territory, to place crowns upon their heads?
No, it was to throw off the yoke of bondage, to 
burst the fetters of slavery, and to stand on
God's earth free men; free to think, free to act,
(as long as they did not infringe on the rights
of others) with their souls untrammeled, their
consciences free to worship God in their own
way, to establish laws for their own best inter-
est, independent of the whole world. For this
they bled, for this they died. This was the
spirit and intent of the men who framed the
Constitution of America. Then shall men, be-
ing influenced by the clamor of those eager for
spoil, drag out the foundations and undermine
the structure of liberty, and destroy what has
cost so much of life and treasure to establish?
Then what means the stringent measures
which have been enforced by the commission,
or by what right has a commission been ap-
pointed? What have we done that we should
be treated as enemies? What law have we
broken? Are we not a law-abiding people?
Have we not (being qualified) asked to be ad-
mitted into the great family of States, present-
ing a Republican form of government? Have
we not sufficient population? Are we not an in
dustrious people, and an honest people? Have
we not built up a desert and made it "to blos-
som as the rose," built towns, cities, railroads,
schoolhouses; and do we not encourage educa-
tion, advancement, enterprise and honesty?
And have we not facilities for a self-sustain-
ing community? Yes; and more, we are a
God-fearing people. Then what is the matter?
Oh, you believe in plural marriage, and claim
you have the right, but we have decreed its
downfall, and you must and shall submit, or
we will go behind the law and institute some-
thing similar to the old law of the Inquisition.
President Arthur says, "It is useless to attack

[Column 2]

it with anything but the strongest weapons."
Well may we say that Justice and Equity has
fled from the land.
	It is the duty of the President of this grand
republic to deal impartially with the people
nnder his supervision. I am led to draw a dif-
ferent conclusion from the tenor of his mes-
sage, as in the case of Alaska he exhibits a
fatherly care for their rights, and recommends
measures for their protection, but in the rec- 
ommendation for Utah he manifests the oppo-
site spirit, almost a tyrant, seeking to deprive
a whole community of their natural born
rights, making them slaves to opinions formed
without knowledge. The President has no
right or authority to assume absolute control
of the affairs of Congress without limitation;
he has no right to interfere with the personal
rights of the people without judicial trial.
Where can he point out a law in the Constitu-
tion giving him the right? Even a President
is limited in his powers when he attempts to
pervert the law; what part of the Constitution
of the United States is it that affirms the in-
capacity of a majority in any given locality of
having the right to control its own affairs?
The Constitution gives the people absolute pow-
er over their own domestic arrangements, and
who has the right to take it away? Who gave
them the right to send our avowed enemies to
rule over us without our consent? And must
we submit? Is there not a God in heaven
whose arm is strong enough in the defense of
the oppressed? When the Saints were driven
from their homes in the States into
a howling wilderness in the winter, 
who in all this great nation held forth
a helping hand to protect them? Even
the widow, the fatherless, the aged and infirm?
None. What did the nation say, "Your cause
is just but we can do nothing for you," but we
will take all your able bodied men to fight our
battles; you must help yourselves, which we
did, the Lord helping us; He blessed His peo-
ple and led them to this land which then be-
longed to Mexico. What did the people do,
did they raise the flag of Mexico and revolt
against the government? No, they did not.
They proudly unfurled the stars and stripes,
and planted the ensign of freedom in this
mountain retreat, and on their bended knees
thanked God for this haven of rest; vowed to
defend it with their lives, their all. Then to
secure good order in their new country they
proceeded to create a government which was 
Republican in all its parts, and being no law in
the United States with regard to marriage (only
what is called in England, the common law)
which was, that every State or Territory should
regulate its own marriage laws, therefore they
felt at liberty to marry according to the law
and will of the Lord, which they had a right
to do, and claim that the celestial law is a ten-
et of our religion, and a matter of conscience 
between us and our God, and that no nation,
no Congress, no legislature, no man has the
right to curtail us in this matter, as it is ex-
pressly forbidden in the Constitution to make
expose facto laws; we believe it right to sustain
the laws of the land, but we do not believe
that men have the right to bind men's souls.
	In reading the News I came across some
clippings from Henry Ward Beecher,in which
he says, "Its ignoble origin must not lead us to
despise it; it is one of the great forces of mod-
ern society." What does he mean? Does he
mean that because Joseph Smith was of hum-


[Column1]
ble birth, that the origin of Mormonism is ig-
noble? Where have our great statesmen, our
great inventors, our reformers and our great
nation come from, was it not from men of hum-
ble birth and origin? Men who were not
afraid to work with their hands, their hearts,
and their brains? Has not our nation made
itself great by the bone and sinew of the work-
ing class? Are not the working class God's no-
blemen? Mr. Beecher shows his lack of
knowledge when he says, "the emigrants that
come here are all ignorant, and that the wom-
en here don't want a multitude of wives around
them." Who told him the sentiments and
wants of the ladies of Utah? At least the
women here have the good sense to know what
their rights are, and intend to use every legal
means in their power, with wisdom, to maintain
them, and one thing they have learned is this,
to mind their own business.
	I also read with disgust the clippings from
Mrs. Newman's address. How dare she make
the assertion, "that every house in Utah is a﻿
house of prostitution,  that there is no love,
care, or tenderness; that our children are love-
less, deformed and a blank," or "that we have
no homes, only kennels for reproduction?" How
dare she say that we are in bondage soul and
body? We defy the world to produce a more
free, happy, or chaste people. A people that
are bound together by the bonds of true affec-
tion and love. We defy them to produce a
more healthy, upright, intelligent, or perfectly
formed lot of ohildren, no blanks. We teach
them ourselves, by the help of God our Hea-
venly Father, the principles of life, of health,
of purity; we teach them to avoid the evils of
the world, and to keep themselves from con
tamination with the evil practices of the world-
We need no help from our enemies. We po-
litely invite the missionary society to use the
money collected for children nearer home, as
we have plenty and don't need it. We spurn
all such help. We depend on God our Hea-
venly Father in the noble work of raising our
children in the fear and admonition of the
Lord. We have confidence in our husbands;
we know them to be men of God, and that
they hold the holy Preisthood of God, and we
do not cover broken hearts under sealskin
sacques, or take opium or liquor to keep us
from going mad. We know that the Lord has
commanded His people to obey the law of ce-
lestial marriage; and we obey it because we
love it, not because we are forced to. It has
been given to raise up a righteous seed unto
the Lord. We know that our husbands are
honest in their obedience to this law, and that
they provide for their families as honorable
men. The world do not comprehend our mo-
tives, but we know they are pure, and the
Lord will be our judge. It can be proved by
Holy Writ that God approved this practice in
olden times, and shall we raise our puny arm
against God. The Lord delights in the chasti-
ty of women, and so do His servants. Chasti-
ty is the germ of true nobility, and imparts a
dignity to the character of every man and
woman who possesses it. It is a precious gem,
and there is no people on the earth who appre-
ciate it more than the people of Utah. We
have a holy horror of the crimes of adultery
and licentiousness, and we have the greatest
ambition to keep ourselves pure, both in body
and mind, and also honest in thought,
word, deed, and to keep free from the evils of
the world. We feel it our duty to defend
ourselves, our religion, and our rights, and let
the world know that our standpoint is truth,
honor, purity, chastity and integrity. We be-
lieve in God, and that He will hold us ac-
countable. In Him we trust. Let us as
Saints live so near unto God that we may have
His approbation from day to day, and His
Spirit to guide us in our every day life.
	I hail with delight the arrival of the EXPO-

			[Column 2]
NENT, and thank God that we have such able
women to defend our rights as those that con-
tribute to its columns.
	Praying for the advancement of the King-
dom of God, I remain your sister in the Gos-
pel of Christ,			SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, Emery Co.


