	THE WIDOW'S MITE ASSISTS TO BUILD THE
			LOGAN TEMPLE
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The subject of the Logan Temple is ever a
pleasing one to the Saints, especially is it so to
those of this Temple District, who have so gen-
erously given of their means and their labor to-
wards its erection, and as it approaches comple-
tion the greatness of the undertaking appears
more apparent, as also the magnitude of its cost.
	The total donations, as reported at our last
Quarterly Conference, showed the interest tak-
en by the Saints, and spoke loudly in their favor
and of the devotion they possess in regard to the
great Latter-day work, and an ardent desire for
the redemption of their dead.
	There is, however, a class of donors whose do-
nations are included in the total referred, to
which I wish to draw attention, who have aided
to swell the vast amount of contributions; that
of a number of widows, both in and out of the
district of our acquaintance, who have donated
2,108.23, which is truly the widow's mite.
	We have undertaken to complete a list of this
class of donors, and thinking there may  be


others, whose names we have not got we wish,
through the medium of the press, to call the at-
tention of the Bishops, and Presidents of Relief
Societies, and ask them to aid us in ascertaining
how many of such individuals reside in their re-
spective wards, and if possible the amount each
has donated, as we are unable in this office to
determine these facts on account of many dona-
tions being handed to us in bulk by these offi-
cers, for which we receipt the ward thus contri-
buting, and not individuals; more especially is
this the case among the wards comprising the
Temple District.  An offering of the kind in
question is peculiarly impressive, from the fact
that it is absolutely free from any affectation or
desire on the part of the person donating to be
seen of men, for the purpose of obtaining their
plaudits and approbation, but proceeding from a
pure desire to give to satisfy their consciences,
superindenced by a strong feeling of duty to as-
sist in such a laudable purpose, when taken in
connection with the circumstances that ordinar-
ily surround a person bearing the appellation of
a widow, the act takes on the character of a
sacrifice, and makes it doubly sanctified.  The
many donations of this class are well worthy the
admiration of the Saints, and should arouse a
spirit of zeal in their hearts to assist all in their
power to complete the Temple, that while the
widow gives her mite, sometimes all she hath,
the Saints out of their abundance may give
amply and have abundance left.  Many visitors
seem surprised at seeing the work so nearly fin-
ished, and express themselves well paid for the
interest they have taken in its erection, and
look forward with anxiety to its completion and
dedication, which is in the near future.
	Appreciating the generous acts of all who
have contributed towards the erection of the
House of the Lord,
	I remain, yours respectfulIy,
						C. O. Card.
Logan, Dec. 20th, 1833.


[Column 1]

