RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO THE FAMILY.
[From the Ogden Herald.]

From a couch of pain and sorrow
	Has a noble spirit risen,
Soaring up to joyful morrow,
	Where the worlds in splendor glisten
Round the throne of the Eternal
	In His majesty and pow'r,
Where a cycle's but diurnal
	And a century but an hour.

Round his lifeless form are weeping
	Parents, wife, child, sisters, brothers—
Weep ye not; he's only sleeping;
	Faithful hope love's anguish smothers.
Bravely with the body's illness
	Waged his manly soul the fight,
Till he conquered in the sillness
	Of that last and sombre night.

Though the eye of mortal blindnes
	Cannot peer behind the veil,
We've assurance that his kindness,
	Truth, and honor did not fail
To secure him in celestial
	Regions that exalted crown
Which so far exceeds telestial
	And terrestrial renown.

Ere this has his unclogged spirit
	Entered through the sacred portal,
True to promise to inherit
	Glories, bliss, and life immortal.
Weep ye not—Lorenzo's waiting
	For ye all beyond the shore
Where earth's ties are reunited
	To be sundered nevermore.

COM.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Margaret
Ann Cluff, who departed this life September 20th, 1883:
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit in His Al-
wise Providence to call from our midst our beloved sis-
ter, Margaret Ann, wife of Harvey H. Cluff;
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sis-
ter the loss of an able, efficient and devoted saint and
co-laborer with Mary John as counselors to Margaret T.
Smoot, president of the Utah Stake Relief Society; also
as president of the Relief Society of the Sandwich Is-
lands.
	Resolved, That we condole and deeply sympathize
with the bereaved family and friends in the loss of a
kind and affectionate wife, and estimable woman and
a faithful advocate of the Gospel, who has gone to join
her children in a more extended sphere of usefulness.
	Resolved, that we chrish her memory and regard her
virtues as ever worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be spread upon the
records of each Relief Society in Utah Stake, also that
a copy be furnished the bereaved family, also the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for pnblication.
	MARY J. TANNER,
	ALICE S. NEWEL,
	ANN S. DUGDALE,
	SARAH GOODMAN,
	MARIA J. BOOTH,
	CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


