EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE holiday number of the Contributor con-
tains some very interesting articles. Elder Geo.
Reynolds' papers, upon the Book of Mormon,
are calculated to educate our young people in
the Book of Mormon literature. This is a result
ardently to be desired, for heretofore this won-
derful book has been more or less neglected.
Bro. Reynolds' articles are so smoothly and
pleasantly written that the subjects treated up-
on will awaken a new interest for the young.
	"Angela," the prize story, by Augusta Joyce

[Column 2]

Crocheron, is thrillingly rich in pathos and ten-
derness. The language is choice and poetical,
and the incidents of the story prettily woven to-
gether with the golden thread of love on the
swift-flying shuttle of thought in the hands of
a tasteful and artistic weaver of the various col-
orings that blend harmoniously in the mantle
that falls gracefully over the actual and gives
it the perfection of an ideal picture.
	The second best story, by Homespun, is given
in the young author's happy style, and is really
worthy the place it occupies. Homespun is
traveling rapidly up the hill of literary merit
and getting honors by the wayside.
	The poem, "A Christmas Idyl," is the gem of
the magazine; it embodies two pictures, artistic-
ally drawn in outline and beautifully elaborated,
as well as delicately embellished. In fact the
sublime theme the author has chosen seems
most ably handled by inspirational genius. No
loftier subject could have been selected, and
every word seems to fit in its proper place as
harmoniously as a strain of heavenly music.
	One cannot read the Idyl without feeling a
sort of solemnity and grandeur in his own soul.
Such poetry is exalting in its nature, and we
congratulate the young Bishop on his success,
and trust he may yet reach the realization of
his most ardent aspirations as a poet and an
author, in elaborating the wonderful themes
with which Mormonism so richly abounds.
	MISS KATE FIELD will deliver her popular
and interesting lecture, entiltled "An Evening
With Dickens," in the Social Hall, in this city,
on Monday evening, January 7th, for the bene-
fit of the Deseret Hospital. We had the pleas-
ure of hearing the lady on this subject when
she first came to Salt Lake, and know whereof
we speak. All the admirers of this celebrated
man's writings should hear Miss Field; who was
a personal friend of his, and makes the audience
feel as though they could almost see Dickens
himself. The lecture is for a benovelent pur-
pose and should be well attended on that ac-
count, as this is the season to bless and succor
the poor and unfortunate, and at the beginning
of a new year it is fitting to be kindly and gen-
erous. We hope to see the hall crowded.
	Miss Field is not only an author, a lecturer
and a humorist, but has good dramatic ability.
She brought out her play in London some years
ago, which was very highly spoken of by the
English paper; it was styled "Extremes Meet."
Her books are very interesting, "Ten Days in
Spain," "Hap Hazard" or "Travels in America
and Europe," "Pen Photographs of Charles
Dickens "and Charles A. Fecheter, or "Life of an
Actor," his Hamlet in Europe and America,
etc., are some of her works.
	Miss Field is also a practical business woman
and noted for her talent in this direction, which
is rather unusual for an author. She was one of
the first to help introduce the Telephone into
England, did the literary part of the work, and
is one of the original stock holders in the firm.
	JAMES DWYER ESQ has for sale the North
American Review containing, an article by
Prest. John Taylor, followed by one from.
Gov. Murray, each representing his views on the
situation of Utah at the present time, etc. The
articles are placed in contrast as they are pub-
lished, and it would seem that every lover of
patriotism, of truth and justice, should be able
to judge which is true and which is hollow as
well as false. Get the magazine and read both
opinions.


[Column 1]
