A WOMAN'S OPINION.

	If the o'er prudish portion of eastern society,
who claim to be in such awful jeopardy lest they
should be polluted by a few "Mormons" away

[Column 2]
out here in Utah, who persist in believing and
practicing the patriarchal order of marriage, and
whose corrupt tastes and imaginations cause
them to think evil where there is no evil, could
realize that they also live in glass houses, and
that we are daily posted concerning the rotten
condition of their own social circles, in which
move the very ones that cry the loudest against
us, and desire so much to "solve the polygamy
problem," would but stop and look matters and
things square in the face, and let reason rule,
they might very quickly solve it.
	There are greater problems than the plural
wife system, of which they would do well to
seek a solution. First, practice the "Mormon"
creed, "Mind your own business," then study
how you may best cleanse the inside of the plat-
ter, then there is no danger but the outside will
be clean also. Gather up the low, ignorant
masses of wretched humanity that have been
so long allowed to exist and increase in their
midst. Yes, in the very heart of our boasted
and enlightened nation, which professes so
much, but has done so little in the way of true
benevolence, or even common mercy, we real-
ly think it would be more Christianlike to com-
mence there instead of working up a wicked
crusade against a handful of inoffensive people,
who mind nobody's business but their own; and
even the conversion of heathens afar off might
be left till a few of those in their own midst
were saved. As Uncle Sam has great wealth at
his command, would it not be commendable in
him to render more assistance toward this good
work, instead of leaving it all for these "Mor-
mons" to do? taking their lives in their hands
and going without purse or scrip, as the Savior
commanded, some having already been killed
by those ignorant people, for proclaim
ing the truth to them. And the
same will apply to other nations where
our Elders have been traveling to pro-
claim free salvation to the Gentiles, and to gath-
er out the poor and the maimed, and the halt
aud the blind, as Jesus said they should do, that
His table may be filled. We have been given
to understand what to expect from the rich,
who made all manner of excuses, as they could
not spare the time. "Therefore," said Jesus,
"none of those men that were bidden shall taste
of my supper. If any man come to me, and
hate not his father and his mother, and wife and
children, and brethren and sisters, yea, and his
own life, also, he cannot be my disciple." Thou-
sands of that class will seek admission when it is
too late. There will also be found those who have
not on the wedding garment, but they will
be cast out into outer darkness, where they will
be weeping and wailing and gnashing of teeth.
The common cry about the ignorant scum who
gather up to these mountains from the different
nations, shows that they understand not the
Scriptures, nor do they desire to, for they have
hardened their hearts against them, just as Jes-
us predicted, and they do not see the marvelous
work that is being accomplished by the Al-
mighty, right in the very midst of them. This
is the greatest and the grandest mission that
has ever been given to a people, and like every
good work of this kind, it must be performed by
the few that are ready and willing to labor un-
der the the counsel and direction of inspired
men, who will not vary from the principles and
the rules marked ont by our Savior, but are
ready to take their lives in their hands to
go and proclaim His Gospel to a wick-
ed and untoward generation—waiting till
He thinks fit to reward them. "Many
are called but few are chosen;" which words will
apply to this people as well as to any other.
Those of the more favored are expected to teach
the poor and the ignorant classes, who have
lacked the opportunities, how they may al-


so become free, self-supporting and independent
citizens, instead of keeping them down as they
have been in their own countries, where they
could not own an inch of ground, and knew no-
thing, only to earn their daily pittance, and even
then they had scarcely enough to keep soul and
body together, and they might have lived and
died in that condition had they not heard the
Latter-day Gospel, which has power to save
all who will come under its banner; and we know
that if they keep the commandments of God
they will be enabled, in time, to arrive at the
true standard of excellence, and will, in their
turn, become also saviors upon Mount Zion.
	Thousands, who have  gathered to these val-
leys, will to day testify that they are realizing
these blessings.  The Lord has said that "the
wisdom of the wise shall perish." And we are
witnessing proofs of it daily, even in the Execu-
tive of this nation, who accepts the false testi-
monies and exaggerated tales, gotten up by
our enemies for nothing but a political pur-
pose, which is as plain to our understanding as
A B C. Our delectable Governor says, "A man
must be on the ground to understand the ques-
tion." So we should think; but what about the
Governor absenting himself from his post for
months at a time, (though heaven knows we
have no earthly use for him). "Enjoying the
repose and comforts of a New York hotel, etc,
etc., doing his best trying to work up a 
spirit of hostility against the "Mormons." I
think that none of the old settlers of Utah could
be found saying that "the earth yields forth
fruits by little labor; the more fertile spots in the
United States are found in the hands of the
Mormon Church, etc., etc." If the soft and
kid gloved hands of his Excellency, and a few
others of the same clique, had been hardened
with honest toil as have those of the "Mormon"
pioneer's, who, by their patient industry and
zeal, made habitable these same "fertile spots,"
they might be better able to judge, if not more
willing to tell the truth concerning Utah and
its founders, instead of making idiots of them-
selves, and venting their spleen upon the "Mor-
mons," thinking to gain more power aud popu-
larity by so doing; but they will go down as sure
as there is a God in heaven, just as others have
done, who have sought to infringe upon our
rights, and the disappointment of such we know
will be sufficient torment.
