EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The enclosed minutes sent were written by
young beginners, who have been chosen and
voted in to take the place of Sister Delia Kof-
ford, and assistant secretary. Sister F. Kofford's
family have been very faithful in the discharge
of their duties, as secretaries in this ward, and
in the stake for many years. They have ten-
dered their resignations of necessity, to attend
to other duties. Sister Delia will probably
move to another field of labor, where I hope
she may be appreciated as she deserves to be, as
a good and faithful member of society. May
the blessings of God attend her.
						M. A. P. HYDE.
	Spring City, Dec. 19th, 1883.


ETHICS OF SLEEP.—The ethics of good sleep
should form a part of household morality. It
is hardly an extravagant assertion that com-
paratively few people, after childhood is passed,
know by experience what perfect sleep is, and
satisfy themselves with a poor apology for this
most perfect refreshment.  Rising tired and
weary from a disturbed, imperfect sleep they
proceed to summon up lost energies by strong
tea or coffee, which in its turn again interferes
with perfect rest at night, and this process of
life, more than any mental or physical labor,
wears women out and makes them prematurely
old. “I have been reading myself to sleep
after retiring,” said a Boston woman the other
day; “and when I have done this for two or,
three nights I can see that I look five years
older.” It is an experience that any woman
can verify, and conversely, she can see that
sleeping in a perfectly dark and well ventilated
room brings back the contour and the roses of
childhood or early youth.
	The most perfect sleep is obtained by care-
fully closing the blinds, raising and lowering
the windows  to admit plenty of pure air, and
drawing down the heavy shades, thus making
the room perfectly dark.  Then, on going to
bed, go there to sleep, not to write or read, or
think or plan, but for the most valuable of all
things, the foundation of all activity and ener-
gy,—perfect sleep.  A few nights of this ex-
perience will work a magic transformation in
looks and in feelings.
	Above all, let us divest ourselves of a tra-
ditional prejudice that there is somehow virtue
in early rising.  When early sleep is obtained
early rising is indicated by nature, by waking;
but artifically produced it is pernicious.  Un-
less there is an exceptional reason, it is far
wiser to sleep till one wakens naturally, and
one hour then will do the work of three when,
one comes to it tired, unrefreshed, “Nature's
sweet restorer” is of all things, the most invig-
orating.—Selected.


Those with whom we can apparently become
well acquainted in a few moments are general-
ly the most difficult to rightly know and un-
derstand.—Hawthorne.


