[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Let Us Do Something About Smoking]
304 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY,  1940 
Society  disbursements  which  I  have 
quoted. 
On  the  whole,  these  few  bare  facts 
can  give  but  httle  indication  of  the 
scope  and  value  of  Relief  Society 
work  to  the  needy,  to  the  •communi- 
ty, and  to  the  members  themselves. 
Its  educational,  cultural,  and  spir- 
itual values,  its  individual  and  com- 
munity service,  can  never  be  fully 
measured  and  expressed  in  statistical 
terms. 
In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  re- 
peat the  following  words  of  Eliza  R. 
Snow,  the  first  secretary  of  Relief 
Society,  which  were  a  part  of  the  first 
annual  report  of  the  Female  Relief 
Society  of  Nauvoo,  for  the  year  end- 
ing March  17,  1843,  and  which  are 
still  applicable:  "We  hope  the  ladies 
of  the  Society  will  feel  encouraged 
to  renew  their  exertions  knowing 
that  the  blessings  of  the  poor  are 
resting  upon  them.  We  feel  assured 
from  what  has  passed  under  our 
personal  observation,  that  many  dur- 
ing the  inclemency  of  the  winter 
were  not  only  relieved,  but  preserved 
from  famishing,  through  their  in- 
strumentality. More  has  been  ac- 
complished than  our  most  sanguine 
anticipation  predicted,  and  tlnough 
the  assistance  and  blessing  of  God, 
what  may  we  not  hope  for  the  fu- 
ture?" 
{Note:  The  detailed  financial  and  sta- 
tistical report  for  1939  will  appear  in  the 
June  issue  of  the  Magazine. ) 
LET  US  DO  SOMETHING  ABOUT  SMOKING 
Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  of  the  Council  oi  the  Twelve 
"In  consequence  of  evils  and  designs  that  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of 
conspiring  men  I  have  warned  you  and  forewarn  you  by  giving  unto  you  this 
word  of  wisdom." 
TT  is  contrary  to  the  laws  of  the  state 
of  Utah,  and  I  presume  of  many 
other  states  and  communities,  to 
furnish  minors  with  cigarettes  and 
liquor.  I  will  read  you  a  few  words 
from  the  statutes  of  the  state  of 
Utah: 
"Any  person  who  furnishes  to  any  minor 
by  gift,  sale,  or  otherwise  any  cigarette  or 
cigarette  paper  or  wrapper,  or  any  paper 
made  or  prepared  for  the  purpose  of  making 
cigarettes,  or  any  tobacco  of  any  kind  what- 
soever, is  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor,  and 
shall  be  punished  by  a  fine  of  not  less  than 
$25  or  more  than  $299  or  by  imprisonment 
in  the  county  jail  not  exceeding  six  months. 
or  by  both  such  fine  and  imprisonment. 
(Title  93,  Chapter  1,  Article  12.) 
".  .  .  It  is  also  a  misdemeanor  ...  for 
the  proprietor  of  any  place  of  business  to 
knowingly  permit  minors  to  frequent  such 
place  of  business  while  they  are  using  to- 
bacco. The  term  place  of  business  as  here 
used  shall  apply  to  any  and  all  such  places 
as  shops,  stores,  factories,  public  garages, 
offices,  theatres,  recreation  and  dance  halls, 
pool  rooms,  cafes,  cafeterias,  cabarets,  res- 
taurants, passenger  coaches,  and  waiting 
rooms."     (Title  93,  Chapter  3,  Article  1.) 
In  a  letter  inaugurating  the  Church 
campaign  for  the  non-use  of  liquor 
and  tobacco,  written  nearly  three 
years  ago,  the  First  Presidency,
