[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference April, 1940]

THE semi-annual general conference of Relief Society convened in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1940. Arrangements for this two-day conference, devoted largely to the consideration of administrative procedures, were made by a committee of the General Board, of which Counselor Marcia K. Howells was chairman. Due to the recent reorganization of the General Board, which occurred as of January 1, 1940, midway in the six-month interval between the October and April conferences, the conference just held was characterized by tributes of love and appreciation to the retiring leaders, and by the introduction of the new general officers and board members.

Retiring Officers and Board Members Honored
The service and achievements of former General President Louise Y. Robison, Counselor Kate M. Barker, General-Secretary Julia A. F. Lund, and other retiring board members, during the eleven years of their administration, were extolled by the new president, Amy Brown Lyman, in the opening address of the conference. The inspirational invocation at the final general session in the Tabernacle was offered by Sister Robison, and the first session of the conference—the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall—was opened with prayer by Annie Wells Cannon, who had served as a member of the General Board for twenty-eight years. Other former members of the Board who appeared on the conference program were: Emma A. Empey, who had also served as a member of the General Board for twenty-eight years, and who offered the invocation at the president's breakfast; Janet M. Thompson, now a member of the general superintendency of the Primary Association who, in the music department, discussed The New Relief Society Song Book which was prepared for publication during her service as former chairman of the Board's music committee; and Lalene H. Hart who pronounced the benediction at the department session on the work meeting and Mormon Handicraft. Opportunity for the renewal of acquaintance and the exchange of greetings between former Members of the General Board and Relief Society workers from the various stakes and missions was provided at all sessions and functions of the conference, but especially at the evening reception, April 3, in honor of Louise Y. Robison, her executive officers and board members, which was attended by nearly 1,500 stake and mission officers and board members and ward presidents.

Participation of Present Board
The incoming officers and all new and retained members of the General Board participated in the conference through individual appearance on the program or as members of committees in charge of the various department sessions and social functions. At the reception, the new officers and members of the Board stood in the receiving line with the retiring leaders, while those members of the former Board who had served less than ten years and were retained as members of the present Board, greeted the stake and mission workers and ward presidents in the reception and dining rooms.

Schedule of Meetings
Following is a schedule of the meetings and entertainments which comprised the conference:
I. Officers' meeting (for stake and mission officers and board members), Wednesday, April 3, at 10:00 a. M.
II. Five department meetings, Wednesday afternoon, April 3—
1. Social Welfare and Membership (for stake and mission officers and board members, stake coordinators, and ward presidents), 1:30 p. M.
2. Relief Society Magazine (for stake and mission Magazine representatives, and stake, mission and ward presidents), 3:30 p. M.
3. Work-and-Business and Mormon Handicraft (for stake and mission officers and board members), 1:30 p. M.
4. Music (for stake and mission choristers and organists), 3:30 p. M.
5. Secretary-Treasurers (for stake and mission secretary-treasurers), 3:30 p. M.
III. Two general sessions (for all officers and members, and the public), Thursday, April 4, at 10:00 a. m. And 2:00 p. M.
IV. A reception in honor of Louise Y. Robison, former General President, and her executive officers and board members (for stake and mission officers and board members and ward presidents), Wednesday, April 3, 7:00 to 10:00 p. M.
V. A breakfast for stake and mission presidents, Thursday, April 4, 7:45 a. M.

Representation and Attendance
The inclusion of ward presidents at department meetings on social welfare and Relief Society Magazine, and at the reception was an innovation at this conference. Registration records indicate that more than 300 ward presidents attended the business sessions. All but two of the 128 stakes were represented at the conference. The representative from Gridley Stake was prevented from attending by last-minute interruption of train service, and Oahu Stake, located in Hawaii, was not represented because of the great distance. The representation included not only the stakes concentrated in western United States but the Chicago and New York stakes and those in Canada and Mexico. Ten of the twelve missions with headquarters in the United States were also officially represented—all but East Central States and Eastern States missions—and, in addition, the Canadian and Mexican missions. The Relief Society women who assisted with the registration of attendance and who welcomed stake and mission representatives and ward presidents at all sessions held in the Assembly Hall were members of the Ensign Stake Relief Society Board. Registered attendance at the various business sessions which comprised the first day of the conference was approximately as follows: officers' meeting—1,000 stake and mission officers and board members; department session on social welfare and membership—700 stake and mission representatives and ward presidents; department session on Relief Society Magazine—600 stake and mission representatives and ward presidents; at the department dealing with the work meeting and with Mormon Handicraft—400 stake and mission representatives; music department—150 stake and mission choristers and organists, or their representatives; more than 100 stake and mission secretaries, or their representatives, attended the department for secretary-treasurers; and 175 women—Relief Society presidents of stakes and missions, or their representatives, recently-returned presidents of Relief Society in European missions, and former and present members of the General Board—assembled for the presidents' breakfast which was held early Thursday morning, on the second day of the conference. Attendance at the general sessions in the Tabernacle was approximately 4,000 at the forenoon meeting, and 6,000 at the afternoon meeting when nearly every seat was taken. General officers of other auxiliaries, and wives of the General Authorities of the Church, also attended sessions of the Relief Society conference; Mrs. J. Reuben Clark, Jr., pronounced the benediction at the department session relating to the Relief Society Magazine.

Achievement Recognized
Recognition for achievement in the Magazine and membership drives was accorded at the department meetings relating to these activities. President Amy Brown Lyman presented a bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine for 1939 to each of the twelve award-winners previously announced in the December, 1939, issue of the Magazine. Counselor Donna D. Sorensen introduced individually the representatives of the six missions and four stakes who, midway in the four-year membership drive for a general increase of one-third, had achieved a net increase of 50% or more over 1937. Identification of these stakes and missions, and their respective numerical and percentage increases, will be found in the report of the proceedings of the membership department.

Music at the Conference
At the officers' meeting in the Assembly Hall, Lily Priestly rendered beautifully the organ prelude and postlude, and accompanied the congregational singing which was directed by Beatrice F. Stevens, chairman of the General Board's music committee. The Relief Society rally song, A Hundred Thousand Strong, was sung in the Assembly Hall at the close of the department meeting on membership, and during the final general session in the Tabernacle, directed, respectively, by Olive Rich, Bonneville Stake Relief Society chorister, and Beatrice F. Stevens, who composed the song.

In the music department, selections from the cantata, Resurrection Morning (words by Ida R. Alldredge, music by B. Cecil Gates), were sung by a trio composed of Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, and Virginia Freeze Barker. A special feature at the general session was the combined choruses of Singing Mothers from Kolob, Provo, Sharon, and Utah stakes, comprised of 261 singers, and directed in rotation by their respective stake directors, Zina C. Condie, Mae B. Young, Melba P. Pyne, and Edna P. Taylor. Dr. Frank W. Asper, Tabernacle organist, was at the console during both general sessions.

The Membership Arch
The beautiful, softly illuminated membership arch faced the congregation at the sessions of the conference held in the Assembly Hall and Tabernacle. This replica of a monumental arch presented in simple graphic form the progress of Relief Society toward its goal of 100,000 members by 1942. The lower blocks on either side of the arch were illumined in gold, representative of Relief Society membership at the close of 1937, just prior to initiation of the campaign for an increase of one-third by 1942; above these were blue-lighted blocks depicting the relative growth in membership during 1938 and 1939, and the central span, still in white, represented the anticipated growth during the two remaining years of the drive—1940 and 1941.

European Missions Featured
The withdrawal of all Church missionaries from the European missions, subsequent to the beginning of war in September, 1939, brought to this conference the unusual opportunity of hearing from eleven former Relief Society mission presidents, who were featured at the first general session. The invocation at this session was offered by Margaret M. Peterson, former Relief Society president of Norwegian Mission, and the benediction was by Leone Jacobs, former Relief Society president of Palestine-Syrian Mission. Summaries of the messages and memories delivered to the conference by the nine other former Relief Society presidents from European missions are included elsewhere in this report of the proceedings. The appearance of the Millennial Chorus, composed of young men who formerly served in the British Mission and directed by Bertram Willis, was especially appropriate at this meeting devoted to missionary work in Europe. This session was deeply spiritual in nature and turned the hearts and sympathies of the entire congregation to the Saints in Europe.

Demonstrations and Exhibits
Many attendants at the Relief Society conference accepted the invitation to view the special and beautifully prepared exhibit of temple and burial clothing, to inspect the examples of showmanship used in the membership drive in Carbon Stake, and to visit the Mormon Handicraft Shop where a variety of fine and unusual handiwork was displayed. Articles from the Shop especially representative of attractive and saleable merchandise were also displayed at the department meeting on handiwork; other exhibits of handiwork were also on display at this session, and these were augmented by the remodeled clothing and by the variety of modern textiles and literature which were used in the demonstrated talks by specialists in these fields. Articles from the Mormon Handicraft Shop were also displayed at the Salt Lake Regional Storehouse where a special exhibit of Church welfare work was located during conference week.