[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Mothers S]
314 
there,  and  their  work  director,  and 
discussed  our  plan  with  them.  So 
we  set  forth  to  build  cabinets  and 
wardrobes  to  put  into  the  homes 
where  these  people  might  be  lifted 
up  to  a  higher  standard  of  house- 
keeping, where  they  might  have  some 
place  to  put  the  things  they  had 
made  such  an  effort  to  obtain. 
The  Relief  Society  furnished  the 
material,    and    the    work    director 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY,  1940 
there,  who  is  a  capable  carpenter, 
supervised  the  work.  The  Relief  So- 
ciety also  furnished  the  paint,  but 
with  the  understanding  that  those 
who  were  to  receive  the  cabinets 
must  go  to  a  central  place  and  paint 
them;  if  they  took  them  into  their 
homes  first,  they  possibly  would  not 
get  painted.  The  hearts  of  these 
people  are  full  of  gratitude. 
SX^ork-and-Uiusiness  ^Jjepartment 
TOPICS  FOR  DISCUSSION,  1940-41 
EtheJ  B.  Andrew 
Member  oi  General  Board  oi  Relief  Society 
TTHE  work  day  is  your  opportunity 
day.  The  members  of  your  or- 
ganization should  be  considered  and 
their  interests  recognized  in  planning 
the  day's  program  and  in  making 
it  an  enjoyable  social,  as  well  as  an 
adventure  in  new  and  interesting 
phases  of  homemaking. 
We  mothers  are  responsible  for 
the  health  of  our  families.  Their 
health  depends  largely  on  what  they 
eat.  There  are  30,000,000  homes  in 
the  United  States.  In  every  one  of 
these  homes,  food  is  being  prepared 
daily.  The  problem  of  what  to  eat 
becomes  an  important  factor  in  the 
health  of  our  nation.  We  have  al- 
ways known  that  we  eat  to  live,  but 
we  are  fast  learning  that  what  we 
eat  has  an  important  bearing  upon 
how  long  we  shall  live  and  the  degree 
of  health  we  shall  enjoy.  Active  re- 
search and  general  education  along 
nutritional  lines  have  made  a  definite 
improvement  in  the  health  of  our 
children  and  a  marked  decrease  in 
infant  mortality. 
The  nutrition  lessons  are  optional, 
but  the  vital  need  of  them  is  appar- 
ent. For  the  1940-41  lesson  season 
they  are  being  approached  from  a 
different  angle;  i.  e.,  what  to  eat  to 
make  better  teeth  and  bones,  hair 
and  fingernails,  skin,  eyes,  posture 
and  muscle  tone,  dietary  reinforce- 
ments, food  for  old  people,  and  help- 
ful and  healthful  party  menus. 
Suggested  menus  and  recipes, 
ideas  on  textiles,  conservation,  better 
housing,  and  better  homemaking 
will  be  given.  Make  your  lessons 
practical  to  fit  your  own  group  and
