[Vol27 | May 1940 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Mormon Handicraft as an Opportunity-Maker]
Mormon Handicraft Department
MORMON HANDICRAFT AS AN OPPORTUNITY-MAKER
Nellie O. Parker
Member of General Board of Relief Society

MORMON HANDICRAFT was conceived in the desire to help others. The motivating objectives were: first, to create new avenues of employment by furnishing a market for fine handiwork; second, to encourage and foster the handicraft arts; and third, to utilize and to preserve the heritage of our people, the many skilled and talented artisans gathered from different lands.

In states like Utah, with few large industries, employment must be created. It is recognized that the tourist trade is one of our greatest resources. Rather than importing articles to be sold and carried away again, our own people can make things that appeal to tourists. We should aim toward making distinctive articles of originality and fine workmanship, typical of our locality and our people.

The records show that since the Shop opened its doors in the early summer of 1937, it has afforded opportunity for 2,500 people to sell their work, and $15,000 has been paid to them for it.

The Shop is not yet self-supporting, which it must be if it is to be continued. The returns are very satisfactory during the tourist season, but more customers among our local people are needed to increase the volume of sales throughout the entire year. We solicit your help in this particular. Acquaint those in your community who buy lovely things with the variety of high-quality articles that can be procured at the Shop. Patronize it whenever possible. In the past, many stakes and wards have taken membership in the Shop, and we solicit their continued support of this worthy project.

Try to make opportunities by encouraging and creating employment for your own stake people. Become aware of your own local resources and make use of them. One locality may have grass suitable for basket making; another, good clay for pottery, or petrified wood or native stones that polish beautifully. The field of developing these enterprises has scarcely been entered yet. The skilled craftsmen in your wards who do not need employment can teach those who do need the work. It would be a very commendable volunteer service.

We are endeavoring to keep the policies of the Shop very much as they have been. They are set forth in the following rules and regulations, as revised by the General Board, March 20, 1940:

1. The fee for membership in the Shop is $1.00 per year for an individual or for a stake or a ward Relief Society. However, individuals holding a current year's membership card in a ward Relief Society which has current membership in the Shop, may submit articles for sale through the Shop without further fee. Other individuals may enter articles for sale through the Shop provided they hold current membership in the Shop. Ward Relief Societies are encouraged to become members of the Handicraft Shop for the benefit of their members who may desire to utilize the services of the Shop; stake Relief Societies will find membership desirable, particularly if the submittal and sale of articles is to be carried on as a stake board project. All membership fees are payable direct to the Mormon Handicraft Shop.

2. All articles for consignment to the Shop must first have been submitted to and approved by a stake committee (composed of stake and ward work-and-business leaders) as meeting established standards of workmanship and saleability. However, articles reordered by the Shop because of the demand for them may be sent direct to the Shop without submittal to the stake committee.

3. Before consignment to the Shop of articles approved by the stake committee, the stake committee must obtain permission from the Mormon Handicraft Shop to submit the proposed consignment in order to avoid overstocking some lines of merchandise.

4. All articles submitted for sale at the Shop must have price attached, to which 25% will be added by the Shop for overhead expense. The Shop, however, reserves the right at any time to equalize or reduce prices when necessary.

5. Articles will be carried in stock at the Shop for one year, or longer if considered saleable by the Shop, unless sold, or withdrawn earlier by consignor.
