[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 24 | General Feature | Editorial— Fasting and Prayer | Marianne C. Sharp]
That thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, 22 eDiroRIAL Fastin in other words, (D&C 59:13-14.) rejoicing and_ prayer. While the observance of. Fast Day is outlined in some detail, the principle of fasting would seem to be an observance in the gospel which is left to the individual to live. How often should one pray on a Fast Day is left to the individual to decide. How often should one fast at other times than Fast Day is also a matter of individual decision. In times of grave illness and heavy trouble, however, instinctively one seeks the Lord in fasting and prayer, for the scriptures teach the power to be found Volume 56 January 1969 Number 1 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer I: and Prayer therein. The Lord has said that he will not command in all things. President Joseph F. Smith said 'God delights in the willing heart.' (J. D. 25:59.) When one fasts it should be accompanied by joy. The Savior said:... When ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance... That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret. (Matt. 6:16, 18.) President Joseph F. Smith added the comment, ''In other words, appear to the world to be happy.'' (J. D. 25:58.) Emphasizing the personal disAnna B. Hart Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Zola J. McGhie Leone G. Layton Oa J. Cannon Blanche B. Stoddard Lila B. Walch Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Darlene C. Dedekind Edith P. Backman Edythe K. Watson Winniefred S. Manwaring Ellen N. Barnes Elna P. Haymond Kathryn S. Gilbert Mary R. Young Verda F. Burton Afton W. Hunt Myrtle R. Olson Elsa T. Peterson Alice C. Smith Fanny S. Kienitz Lucile P. Peterson Elizabeth B. Wintars Elaine B. Curtis Jennie R. Scott Zelma R. West Alice L. Wilkinson Leanor J. Brown Irene W. Buehner Reba C. Aldous trene C. Lloyd Luella W. Finlinson Hazel S. Love Norma _ B. Ashton Fawn H. Sharp Mayola R. Miltenberger Celestia J. Taylor Maurine M. Haycock Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree cretion in fasting, President Smith also said: but let it be remembered that the observance of the fast day by abstaining twenty-four hours from food and drink is not an absolute rule, it is no iron-clad law to us, but it is left with the people as a matter of conscience, to exercise wisdom and discretion.... But those should fast who can... (Gospel Doctrine, Third Ed., page 306.) He also said: On the Sabbath day you are to do no other thing than to prepare your food with singleness of heart, that your fasting may be perfect, and your joy may be full. This is what the Lord calls fasting and prayer. (Ibid. P. 308.) The Prophet Joseph wrote, under date of January 17, 1843, This being the time appointed by the Twelve as a day of humiliation, fasting, praise, prayer, and thanksgiving before the great Eloheim.... There was great joy among the people, that I had once more been delivered from the grasp of my enemies. (DHC V:252.) Fasting expresses to the Lord deep and profound personal feelings, prayers of entreaty, prayers of gratitude, of thanksgiving, prayers for assistance in preparatian for a special calling, prayers of love, of affirmation of faith reaching to knowledge. The joys of fasting and prayer are to be found. There is a great power to be experienced in fasting and prayer offered by the Lord to all as a blessing and a joy in Spiritual strength and inner light. —M. C. S. 23 FALL AND SPRING SOCIALS Since Relief Society work is carried forward on a twelve-month basis, it is recommended that the two socials, heretofore designated as opening and closing socials, be called hereafter fall and spring socials, respectively. SETTING APART TO POSITIONS IN STAKE AND WARD AUXILIARIES The General Board of Relief Society calls attention to the recent ruling appearing in The Priesthood Bulletin, November 1968, page 14 ''Setting Apart to Positions in Stake and Ward Auxiliaries,'' paragraphs 4 and 5, that the sustaining vote of the ward membership of ward officers and teachers in ward auxiliary organizations is to be held at a sacrament meeting under the direction of the bishop. (This clarifies and amends instructions given in the ''Official Instructions,'' The Relief Society Magazine, November 1968, page 826.) MAGAZINES TO BE ORDERED ONE MONTH BEFORE BEGINNING DATE The General Board calls to the attention of Magazine subscribers are representatives the need to order the Magazine a full month ahead of the month in which it is to be started. For instance, a subscription to begin in March should reach the Magazine office by the first of February. When the desired issue iS not received by a subscriber, invariably it is found that the order for the Magazine did not reach the General Board office by the first of the preceding month.