[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 51 | General Feature | Notes To the Field— Fall and Spring Socials; Sustaining to Positions in Stake and Ward Auxiliaries; Magazines to Be Ordered one Month Before | Beginning Date]
spiritual living class leader; tenth from the left: Nila Burash, President, Saugus Ward Relief Society. Ina Eaton, President, San Fernando Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A special stake event exposing the breadth and accomplishments of Relief Society was presented. The theme for the event was 'Expo 68.' "The program was highlighted by the presentation of the dramatization 'Speaking of Melinda,' by the Saugus Ward. The stake Singing Mothers, a luncheon, style review; and colorful exhibits rounded out the program.

[Notes To the Field— Fall and Spring Socials; Sustaining to Positions in Stake and Ward Auxiliaries; Magazines to Be Ordered one Month Before Beginning Date]

The extensive participation by the wards meant valuable experience and enjoyment gained by many sisters."' 

51 January 1969

 Denver West Stake (Colorado), Broomfield Ward Displays Handicraft at Patio Party Honoring Officers and Class Leaders May 29, 1968 Margene S. Miller, former president, Denver West Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Dorothea C. Shawcroft, President of the Broomfield Ward Relief Society, and her counselors decided to show their appreciation for the devoted work carried out in Relief Society by the officers and class leaders by hostessing a patio party in their honor. They had held their first bazaar in 1967 and were eagerly preparing for one in 1968. "Colorful displays representing various activities and homemaking meetings throughout the year thrilled the sisters. Towel painting, tiered trays, rock people, burlap and formafilm flowers, and place mats were some of the many beautiful articles displayed. 'Betty Z. Curtis is the new president of Denver West Stake Relief Society." — West Mexican Mission, Obregon, Sonora, Branch Celebrates Relief Society Birthday March 17, 1968 Left to right: Ana Maria Millan, First Counselor, Obregén Branch Relief Society; Delia M. DeGarcia, Second Counselor; Hector Portelo: Eufemia Saenz Vda. De Ramos, President; Carmen Quijada; Engracia Padilla. Rae Olsen, Supervisor, West Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Obregén, Sonora, Branch Relief Society celebrated the birthday of Relief Society with a special dance program entitled 'Chiapas.' Professor Hector Portelo assisted in the preparation of the program. There was a good spirit present among the sisters who are happy to have the Relief Society program in their branch." I Fresno Stake (California) Combines Singing Mothers Concert and Art Show May 28, 1968 Viorene E. Wardle, former president, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers of the Fresno Stake presented an interesting spring concert which was followed by an art show. The theme for the event was 'Palette of Song.' "The lovely music provided by the individual ward choruses and the combined chorus under the direction of Nancy Adamson was woven into a lovely narration written by LoRen Snow. "After the concert, the guests were invited into the cultural hall to view the delightful paintings done in oils, water colors, chalk pastels, charcoal, ink, and pencil. There were sixty-nine paintings contributed by thirty-four sisters of the stake. "The sisters were very enthusiastic with the results of the concert and art show combination and felt that it brings more culture into the lives of families in the stake. "Norma G. Boswell is the new president of Fresno Stake Relief Society."' 52 a January 1969 East Provo Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present "Moods in Music'' May 9, 1968 was 'Moods in Music.' "The Program featured the 'Apron Strings,' a talented and Popular group of Santa Monica Stake (California) Holds Festival of Arts May 25, 1968 "The Singing Mothers Performed, and a fashion show of clothing representing Church Standards was Presented by the MIA. It was a very successful event, and was 

54 January 1969

 Logan State (Utah) Relief Society Presents Cultural Refinement Festival May 20, 1968 Cultural refinement class leaders of Logan Stake Relief Society, seated, left to right: Afton Zollinger; Leona Daley; Lucille S. Hansen, stake leader; Blanche P. Crookston. Standing, left to right: Emma Harris; Joan Niederhauser; Ann Edwards; Bonnie Edwards; Myra Cooper; Ada P. Walker. Lucy N. Ellis, President, Logan Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our stake presented a Cultural Refinement Festival, displaying talents in painting, sculpturing, flower arranging, writing, and music. "The program consisted of music and songs, reading of poetry, and messages of inspiration. Refreshments were served to 300 sisters and all who attended received a booklet containing the stories, poems, and essays entered in the festival. "Following the program, a reception was held in which the sisters were privileged to meet General Board members Winniefred S. Manwaring, Blanche Stoddard, and Alice C. Smith. This was indeed a great privilege for us to have these sisters present.'' Grand Coulee North Stake Relief Society Presents Music Festival, "'Let All My Lifé Be Music"' May 31, 1968 Officers of the Grand Coulee North Stake Relief Society, left to right, beginning seventh from right: Crystal Harris, President; Ora Gene Port, SecretaryTreasurer; Tamara Young, Second Counselor; Beverly Zitting, First Counselor; Marsha Pederson, chorister. Sister Harris reports: ''Our stake is newly organized and widely scattered. However, we considered it important to bring the sisters together in a music festival. Over fifty Singing Mothers participated in a very gratifying and successful concert with the theme, 'Let All My Life Be Music.' "Each ward and branch was assigned a special number to present, and the combined choruses presented two numbers. An outstanding skit, 'It Takes More Than Music,' was written and presented by the Wenatchee Second Ward. ''It took a considerable amount of effort by the stake music department to work with all the wards and branches, some as many as 100 miles distant. We are very pleased with the efforts of so many dedicated sisters which made this event successful." Atlanta Stake (Georgia) Holds First Visiting Teacher Convention May 25, 1968 Front row, fifth from left: Bonnie B. Singleton, President, Atlanta Stake Relief Society; sixth: Joyce P. Selin, former president. Second row, third from left: Mary T. Wilhite, Secretary-Treasurer. Third row, far right: Judy H. Martin, Education Counselor. Fourth row, second from right: Joyce B. Willis, Homemaking Counselor. Sister Singleton reports: ''Approximately 100 sisters attended our visiting teacher convention this year. The members of the stake board decorated the tables. Each visiting teacher was presented a tribute for her Book of Remembrance. 'Musical selections and a presentation of 'A Cail to Benevolence,' and a tribute to the retiring Relief Society President, Joyce P. Selin, a tribute to visiting teaching, and remarks by the new Relief Society President and the Stake President, William L. Nichols, provided the bulk of the program. "Refreshments were served by the Gleaners of the stake, and an enjoyable, inspirational time was had by all who attended." 56 Si A ace ae ae a a a a ae a January 1969 Central British Mission, Midlands East District Bazaar November 25, 1967 Left to right: Hazel Grey, work director, Peterborough Branch Relief Society; Josephine Overton, President. Isabel H. Cannon, Supervisor, Central British Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Relief Societies of the Midlands East District combined their efforts and held a 'Bonanza Bazaar.' Peterborough Branch was the host, and was joined by Corby, Stamford, and Grantham Branches. 'The bazaar was held in true western style, with those working at the booths dressed up as cowboys and Indians. Davy Crockett was there to give presents to the children from a covered wagon. Refreshments consisted of beans on toast, soup, and other typical western foods. "The day was completed by a square dance demonstration by the Triple A (Anglo-American Air Force) square dance team from nearby Alconbury Air Force Base. Later, everyone joined in the dancing. "The bazaar was very effective not only as a fund-raising project, but also as a wonderful family activity and it strengthened ties within the branches. A side benefit was the extensive publicity and coverage given by the newspapers."' Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 95—The Ministry of Angels Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 129: 130:1-11.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman seeks to understand better how she may keep from being deceived by evil spirits. INTRODUCTION A principal belief of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is that heavenly mesSengers minister today. When the mob in Jackson County, Missouri, issued a manifesto invoking the saints to leave that place under threat of death, it stated that the Mormons openly blasphemed God because they believed in direct communication from heaven. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts; Salt Lake City: The Deseret Book Company, 1946, Vol. 1, pp. 374-376 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) Why should professed "Christian" people denounce the basic Bible teaching that communication from heaven may come through various media of revelation: visions, dreams, angels, and so forth? The Bible gives many examples of the ministration of holy beings from the other side of the veil.