[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 59 | General Feature | Who Will Show Her How? Dorothy F. | Condry Lessons]
[Who Will Show Her How? Dorothy F. Condry Lessons]

From the Old Testament we learn of many such 

59 January 1969

 examples. (Genesis 16:7-11; 22: 11-12; Exodus 3:2; Daniel 6:22.) Several accounts are also recorded in the New Testament. (Luke 1:11-13, 28; 22:43; Acts 1:10; 5:18-19.) Whenever a gospel dispensation has been on the earth, communication from heaven has been received from angels, as well as by other media of revelation. THE RESTORATION OF THE GOSPEL The fundamental Bible belief that God will direct his people today, as well as in the past, was renewed with the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ. This doctrine, affirmed by example and by the witness of the Holy Ghost, has given new hope and faith in the Bible and in the justice of God. Latter-day Saints teach that the Church has been restored by direct revelation from heaven, and that the authority to perform ordinances of salvation has been given by angelic personages from heaven. The Aaronic and Melchizedek Priesthoods were thus restored. (D&C 27:7-8, 12- 13.) Elijah, Elias, and Moses conferred their keys of authority upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple, on April 3, 1836. Ancient prophets have not only returned to the earth as angels, but they have prophesied the time when angels would minister in the last days. (Malachi 3:1-4; 4:5-6; Revelation 14:6-7.) The restoration of the ancient records of the Nephites by the angel Moroni has given a new book of scripture, which also 60 records the ministry of angels in times past and of their messages concerning today and of the future. (1 Nephi 13 and 14.) The Prophet Joseph Smith became well acquainted with many persons of former dispensations who came as angelic persons to convey messages, powers, and authority. (D&C 128:20-21.) Class Discussion What makes you believe that the ministry of angels is reasonable and scriptural? HEAVENLY BEINGS In vision the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon saw the heavenly hosts composed of members of the Godhead and angels. Their testimony is: And we beheld the glory of the Son, on the right hand of the Father, and received of his fulness; And saw the holy angels, and them who are sanctified before-. His throne, worshipping God, and the Lamb, who worship him forever and ever. (D&C 76:20-21.) Another revelation speaks of two kinds of beings in heaven, namely, resurrected personages with bodies of flesh and bones, and the spirits of just men made perfect. (D&C 129:1-3.) It is also recorded that translated beings serve as heavenly messengers. An example is John the Revelator, the apostle of the Lord, who did not die but is engaged in the work of salvation. (D&C 7.) Among Latter-day Saints, the ministry of the Three Nephites, who are translated beings, is best known. These disciples of the Savior, appointed on the American Continent, desired that they might continue to labor for the salvation of men until the second coming of Christ. (3 Nephi 28.) WHAT IS AN ANGEL? Angels are heavenly beings who act in the capacity of envoys, or messengers between the heaven and earth. They may be spirits who have never had bodies or spirits whose bodies lie in the grave, or they may be resurrected beings, or translated beings of flesh and bones who must yet die. The Prophet said that all angels who minister to this earth have either lived upon it or will live upon it. (D&C 130:5.) These truths concerning angels point out that angels are individuals with the same body structure as we are, and that they do not have wings, as popularly conceived. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith; ninth printing; Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956, p. 162.) Angels, as translated, or resurrected beings, have advanced higher in knowledge and power than spirits, said the Prophet Joseph Smith, and they are subject to God. (DHC 6:51; 5: 426-427.) In the meantime, resurrected or translated beings serve as divine messengers until they receive a greater glory, in bringing authority and instruction from God. (DHC 4:575-576). Such an one was Moroni, the custodian of the plates from which has come The Book of Mormon. The Lesson Department Prophet's description of Moroni's first appearance gives some characteristics of a resurrected angel: While I was thus in the act of calling upon God, I discovered a light appearing in my room, which continued to increase until the room was lighter than at noonday, when immediately a_ personage appeared at my bedside, standing in the air, for his feet did not touch the floor. He had on a loose robe of most exquisitive whiteness. It was a whiteness beyond anything earthly I had ever seen; nor do I believe that any earthly thing could be made to appear so exceedingly white and brilliant. His hands were naked, and his arms also, a little above the wrist; so, also, were his feet naked, as were his legs, a little above the ankles. His head and neck were also bare. I could discover that he had no other clothing on but this robe, as it was open, so that I could see into his bosom. (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:30-31.) FALLEN ANGELS The revelations are clear as to the existence of the devil and his fallen angels. Lucifer rebelled in the premortal world and influenced one-third of the hosts of heaven to follow him, and thus they lost their place among the children of God. (Moses 4:1-3; Revelation 12:4; 2 Peter 2:4; D&C 29:36-38.) These angels of Satan are personal beings, that is, they are in form and shape as human. Beings are, but of spirit. (D&C 131:7-8.) Evil spirits are sentient beings who have the characteristics of a person. (D&C 10:10-15, 20-27.) The Lord has revealed the machinations of Satan's hosts toward mankind in order that Latter-day Saints may understand their operations. All evil 

61 January 1969

 comes from Satan for he persuadeth no man to do good. (Moroni 7:12, 17.) His desire is to deceive, foster contention, encourage hatred, murder, and to incite men to rage against good. (2 Nephi 9:9; 3 Nephi 11:29; €:2; 2 Nephi 28:7-9, 19-22.) SATAN AND THE SAINTS Those who have made covenants with the Lord in baptism and in the temples are especial targets of Satan's hosts. To destroy the work of the Lord by deceiving the saints is one means by which Satan hopes to gain the victory. (D&C 76:28.) He has organized his forces, set up his kingdom to simulate the genuine in order to deceive the unwary. (DHC 6:364.) His approaches are many and devious, as well described in The Book of Mormon. (2 Nephi 28.) The Prophet Joseph Smith said: The punishment of the devil was that he should not have a habitation like men. The devil's retaliation is, he comes into this world, binds up men's bodies, and occupies them himself. When the authorities come along, they eject him from a_ stolen habitation. (DHC 5:403.) During the ministry of the Savior, evil spirits possessing the bodies of two persons were cast into a herd of swine at the request of the devils. (Matthew 8:28-32.) The first miracle in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints was the casting of an evil spirit out of Newel Knight by the Prophet Joseph Smith. When the Prophet rebuked the spirit, Newel spoke out and said 62 that he saw the devil leave him and vanish from his sight. (DHC 1:92-93.) The Prophet recorded the following about this miracle: This scene was now entirely changed, for as soon as the devil had departed from our friend, his countenance became natural, his distortions of body ceased, and almost immediately the Spirit of the Lord descended upon him, and the visions of eternity were opened to his view. (DHC 1:82-83.) EXISTENCE OF DEVILS Shortly after the gospel was introduced in England, Elders Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, and _ Isaac Russell, were beset by legions of devils who attempted to overcome and destroy these servants of the Lord. The elders heard and saw these spirits. (Orson F. Whitney, Life of Heber C. Kimball, Stevens and Wallis, Inc., Salt Lake City: second ed., 1945, pp. 129-132.) President Wilford Woodruff had a similar experience in Engiand, but through the intervention of messengers of God, the evil spirits were unable to accomplish their work of destruction. (The Deseret Weekly, November 7, 1896.) Many missionaries have experienced confrontations with evil beings from the unseen world. It seems that the devil is particularly interested in preventing the servants of God from accomplishing their missions. KNOWLEDGE IS NECESSARY The Prophet once said that a man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge. (DHC 4:588; D&C 131:6.) Then he said: for if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth. Hence it needs revelation to assist us, and give us knowledge of the things of God. (DHC 4:588.) Class Discussion What preparation should a Latter-day Saint make that he may not de deceived? BISHOPS The Lord has placed bishops in the stakes and branch presidents in the missions in his Church to preside over the people in their wards and branches. In their calling the Lord has said the following: And unto the bishop of the church, and unto such as God shall appoint and ordain to watch over the church and to be elders unto the church, are to have it given unto them to discern all those gifts lest there shall be any among you professing and yet be not of God. (D&C 46:27.) From the First Presidency instructions come to the stake presidents under whom the bishops in the stakes serve and to the branch presidents in the missions from the mission presidents. In the event the bishops or branch presidents may require counsel from their respective presidents, they may receive help. In a letter to these Church officers, the First Presidency so counseled the members of the Church. They further stated that if these stake and mission officers require the assistance of the First Presidency, they may ask for it, but the members should Lesson Department seek counsel from their local officers. IMPLEMENTATION With the restoration of the Church, the same teachings and practices of the gospel were restored. The ministry of angels and the gifts and blessings of the gospel are again on the earth. Ministering angels have come to the earth where a specific need existed. As' President Wilford Woodruff, who had received such holy visitants, said, the Lord does not send an angel to a person simply to satisfy curiosity, but rather, to perform a work that only an angel can perform. (The Deseret Weekly, November 7, 1896.) The members of the Church are principal targets of the Adversary, for if he can deceive them through false doctrines, false practices, and even by the false notion that there is no devil, nor a future existence, nor a judgment, he has gained a tremendous victory. If he can persuade them to believe in the ideas of men rather than the counsel of the leaders of the Church, his ends are attained. On the other hand, if the saint will seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost to which he is entitled, he will not be deceived; if he will gain knowledge from the scriptures he will not be deceived; if he will follow the counsel of his Church leaders through the line of authority of the First Presidency, stake presidency, and bishopric, he will find himself on the secure, safe path to peace in this life and eternal life in the world to come. (D&C 59:23.)