[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 16 | Special Feature | Obligations of Membership in Relief Society | Harold B. Lee]
Obligations of Membership in Relief Society look at it. It was on sex. And I said I had no time to read this book, and she said, "Will you read this one chapter?" And it was one of the raciest, most blunt, and most plain descriptions that I could possibly read. As I laid it down, she asked, "Well, what do you think of it?" "Well," I said, "if I spoke frankly I would tell you that you could never print that kind of a book with my consent." She looked a bit startled. She was not pleased. But a short while afterwards, one of our sisters took me aside and questioned me because I had said this to her friend. And I said, "Well, I have something that I heard President Clark say, and I should like to read it to you." And that came to my mind today after I had heard these sisters from California, and I want to read what President Clark said a few years ago. Unchastity is too common. It is in our schools from the grades up. It is in our business houses and industrial plants. It is too large a part of our ordinary and social lives. Parents are grasping at straws in an effort to hold their children. A cry is raised, the Church needs a book on sex, but what should such a book tell? All that the schools have taught sex facts on all their teachings have torn away the modesty that once clothed sex. Their discussions tend to make it sometimes seem to make sex animals out of boys and girls. The teachings do little but arouse curiosity for experience. It is said these courses tell enough about the generation of human beings to enable them to largely escape parenthood. Books are written, courses are given about courtship and marriage, to what point? We have not too far to go to get the heathenish abominations' practiced and preached in an early time again, against which the Lord has again and again lashed out to ancient Israel and early Christians. 

13 January 1969

 A work on chastity can begin in one sentence: Be chaste. That tells everything. You do not need to know all the details of reproduction processes in order to keep clean. Be chaste because God commanded it. That is all there is to it. Thou shalt not commit adultery, said the Lord at Sinai, and he has drawn no fine distinctions such as some would like to draw between adultery and fornication. The Lord used the words interchangeably. KEEP FAITH IN GOD STRONG I read something another writer had said on this same subject. He said the reason for sex deviation is loss of belief in God. Once they lose God they lose the purpose of life and when the purpose of living is forgotten, the universe becomes meaningless. This impresses the importance, then, of visiting teaching by Relief Society sisters. When you go into a home, and you find the mother and father who haven't the genius or the talent to teach their children, it is your business to help these mothers in this most vital part of their family education. Go with motherly intuition, sensing in the heart what the mind does not know. Your place in the Welfare Program will be told and more completely by Elder Taylor, so I will just mention one or two thoughts. Teaching for successful wifehood and motherhood is a part of welfare; to demonstrate a woman's effectiveness as a homemaker; preparing a mother to receive her new baby; analyze accurately through a loyal sister's eyes the wants and needs which brethren may not perceive. Don't gossip about matters re- 14 lating to your sisters. Never remember nor publicize what you do for another, but never forget a favor a sister renders to you. Yes, be loyal to each other, as sisters in the gospel of the kingdom. We can banish competitive or hostile interests that detract from Relief Society duties, obligations, privileges, and honor, opportunities and achievement of membership. While attending a meeting of an organization of women, I shall not name it, I was startled when one of our Relief Society presidents was introduced as the speaker for that occasion. In the introduction this organization head said, "She has now graduated from Relief Society into this woman's organization." Graduating from Relief Society! RELIEF SOCIETY FULFILLS NEEDS There must be a constant reassessing of what Relief Society gives to make certain nothing is left out in filling the needs of younger mothers and_ older grandmothers to fulfill the purpose of the Relief Society as defined by the Prophet Joseph Smith. And keep in mind what I said as I started, "frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." Read again and again from those early instructions and bring the Relief Society back to those standards as may be needed. Relief Society must not be something simply to duplicate worldly organizations, such as social clubs, or PTA, or literary societies, but Relief Society must make a significant contri- bution not to be obtained anywhere else. In matters of home storage, again Brother Taylor will tell you more about that, and may I just offer this one caution. Don't promote competitive purchasing or merchandise projects of a commercial nature under the name of the Relief Society or any other Church entity. Give counsel to mothers who are neglecting their families in some of the important details.

Now when I speak of these mothers, of what these schools are doing in the way of teaching children about intimate things of life—mothers in the outside world are worried. I just read in the Sunday newspaper that in 1970, there will be one out of ten births that will be illegitimate births. Shocking! Forty per cent of our unwed mothers under twenty years of age are from families on relief; fifty per cent already had one or more illegitimate children. And to combat the rising tide of illegitimacy, they write, public and private agencies are focusing their attention on education. Among the measures aimed at prevention of illegitimacy are sex education courses in public schools, special schools for unwed mothers, birth control, assistance to repeaters on welfare. But not one word about the thing that the Lord has said, "Thou shalt not." And the positive things that President Clark has told us. Be chaste because God commands! "BRAVERY IS COURAGE IN ACTION." I read something from General Omar Bradley's definition of Obligations of Membership in Relief Society bravery. (He was a famous general under General Dwight D. Eisenhower in the Second World War.) "Bravery," he said, "is courage in action. It is that quality which enables a man to face up to a challenge with decision and purpose whether that challenge be eminent physical danger, or the defense of a moral principle, or a pioneering effort in new fields of progress. It is that which sets the hero above the coward." We have a challenge today in these things of which I have spoken. We have a challenge before us in this State of Utah with regard to the threat of legislation which would increase the availability of alcoholic beverages which, may the Lord forbid to ever come in the way that is now being proposed in the coming election. You mothers must rise up whenever you see the ugly heads of these things, and make sure that these things shall not be brought to your very doors. Bravery is courage in action. It produces the deed which sets the hero above the coward, as I have quoted. Yes, remember what the First Presidency has said in their Centennial message to the Relief Society and their injunctions which I have repeated to you now with such observations as I have been able to bring from my _ understanding and study of what they said. May the Lord bless us so to do, and give us the courage of our convictions in these troublous days and_ challenging times in which we live, I humbly pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. 15 David E. Heywood, Regional Representative of the Council of the Twelve we Mayola Rogers Miltenberger possesses a heritage which she has tremendously built upon. Heritage, training, experience, and accomplishment fit her well to serve unselfishly in the call, as of October 23, 1968, to the Relief Society General Board. She is the daughter of Marion and Leanora Smith Rogers. Sister Miltenberger's forebears have given faithful service in the Church. Her mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother served as Relief Society stake presidents. Her great-grandfather was the first stake president of the Snowflake Stake. Her greatgrandmother, Aurelia Spencer Rogers, daughter of Orson Spencer, founded the Primary Association. After high school graduation in Snowflake, Arizona, two years at the Brigham Young University, and a Bachelor's Degree at the University of Arizona, she obtained a Master's Degree in social work at Tulane University. She is a member of the Academy of Certified Social Workers, and a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers, and was Arizona Chapter chairman of the latter organization at one time. Sister Miltenberger has served in many Church positions, which 16 include ward Relief Society president. In these callings, as well as in her professional field, she has put the Church and the Lord first, being ever careful not to lean on her own understanding. In 1962, she was chosen to establish and direct the newly organized Arizona Relief Society Service Social, under the leadership of the Relief Society General Presidency and the priesthood of the area. Her work has been of such quality that the Relief Society General Presidency has called upon her strength and organizing ability to establish agencies of the Church in two other states, as well as to help in the parent agency in Utah. Sister Miltenberger's late husband, Lt. Col. Edwin J. Miltenberger, was a military career man and came from one of the old established, respected families of New Orleans. A host of friends and loved ones will wish her continued blessings in her new calling.