[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 65 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message—". . . And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More." Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 7—"'... And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More." (D&C 58:42.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1969 Southern Hemisphere: September 1969 OBJECTIVE: To understand that true repentance results in complete forgiveness by the Lord. One afternoon a mission president sent to his wife for additional counseling a young lady missionary. The young missionary was heartbroken over a sin that she had committed. In her grief she sobbed, "I can never be forgiven, I can never forgive myself. I have forfeited all chance to be accepted in the celestial kingdom." Nearly two thousand years ago, a woman _ stood _ before Jesus. She was condemned of one of the most serious crimes, one that struck at the heart of the family. Her accusers were adamant. She must pay the prescribed penalty. She must die. She was a sinner taken in the act. When the scribes and Pharisees pressed him for judgment, Jesus replied, "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her." (John 8:7.) One by one her accusers stole away. When all had left, Jesus said unto her:... Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more. Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. (John 8:10-12.) Jesus pointed the way to true repentance and forgiveness for us all, the way out of darkness into light, when he said, "go, and sin no more." We are to turn away from evil, struggle against our sins until they are overcome, and seek only the good. Alma, the younger, said of himself, "... I had rebelled against my God I had not kept his holy commandments. Yea, and I had murdered many of his children, or rather led them away unto destruction. " (Alma 36:13-14.) As he learned the meaning of repentance and God's' graciousness, he said, "Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto all men, for the arms of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: 'Repent, and I will receive you." (Alma 5:33.) In Isaiah, we read: Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. (Isaiah 1:18.) In our day, the Lord said, "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins—behold, he will confess them and forsake them." (D&C 58:43.) (Italics added.) "Behold, he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more." (D&C 58:42.) If the Lord forgives and remembers our sins no more after we have repented, can we forgive ourselves and remember our sins no more? Can we forgive repentant others their sins and remember them no more?