[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 25 | Special Feature | Genealogical Society | Genealogical Society]
[Genealogical Society]
The GIANT System in Genealogical Work— 1969 Prepared by the Genealogical Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Of vital interest to members of the Relief Society was an announcement made in the October 1968 priesthood meeting of the Semi-annual General Conference of the Church. It was disclosed in this meeting by a member of the First Presidency that the Genealogical Society has devised a more efficient system for preparing records to be used for temple ordinance work. During the seventy-five years of its organization, the Genealogical Society has tried to be of assistance to the saints in the work that Joseph Smith the Prophet described as "one of the greatest and most important subjects that God has revealed." During these years the Genealogical Society has continually searched to discover better and more efficient ways of performing the work of identifying our deceased relatives so the research and temple ordinance work could go forward more efficiently and rapidly. Acting under the direction and guidance of the First Presidency of the Church, and after prayerful and thoughtful deliberation, a simplified system of recording identifying information of our kindred dead has been developed. Under this new plan the work of submitting records for temple ordinance work can go forward with greater ease and accuracy, and with much speedier processing of the tabulated information. In January 1969, a new instructional booklet will be made available to the members of the Church which will provide the details of this new program for simplifying and _ recording research work. Accompanying the booklet will be a sample form of a new, easy-to-use record called the Individual Entry Form. This form will allow individual names to be submitted to the Genealogical Society for temple ordinance work. Heretofore, only completed family group records have been accepted which has forced our saints not only to gather information for the family as a whole, thus slowing their efforts, but has also required them to make complex decisions beyond their capacity to do so. Under the new system the names of individuals will be submitted so that the temple work can be performed on an individual basis. The new program will be called the GIANT System, which name is taken from the initial letters of the complete name, Genealogical Information And Name Tabulation System. The new manual explaining the procedures for submitting individual names for ordinance work will be very concise and will consist of only twenty-seven pages of instruction. The Prophet Joseph taught,... That we redeem our dead, and connect ourselves with our fathers which are in heaven, and seal up our dead to come forth in the first resurrection; and here we want the power of Elijah to seal those who dwell on earth to those who dwell in heaven. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Joseph Fielding Smith, page 337-338.) The GIANT System is so simple that all members of the Church from twelve years of age and up can use this method to comply with and fulfill the Lord's direction to the Church. Following the publication and distribution of the new instructional brochure, there will be a six-month period in which to complete and submit to the Genealogical Society all family group records already in preparation under the present system. During this period the Society can be acquainting themselves with the new system. After July 1, 1969, no more family group records prepared under the old system will be accepted by the Society. This will give the Society time to complete the processing of all records in its possession by 1 October 1969. Beginning 1 October 1969, the Society will begin to accept the new individual entry. All records of research work should be submitted under the new plan on the new individual entry form and on family group record forms prepared under the new system. It is not to be inferred that the family group record will no longer be used or that it is being modified or changed. The Genealogical Society will still accept work submitted on these forms, but these will then be prepared in accordance with the simplified instructions which are part of the GIANT System. It will be more advantageous, in most instances, for the saints to use the individual entry forms for all future work when the information gathered will qualify the sheet for acceptance by the Society. The present program of ward record examiners will be continued without change. A modified instructional booklet for ward record examiners will be issued, but no change in procedures will be made. Relief Society sisters all over the Church will find this simplified program for submitting names for temple work to be easily understood and simple to fill out. The GIANT System will aid the saints better to carry out the divine edict of saving our dead and becoming saviors on Mount Zion. The Relief Society Presidency will present information in greater detail in future issues of the Relief Society Magazine so that our sisters will be well-informed and prepared to assist their husbands in priesthood genealogical work.