[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 44 | General Feature | The Influence of a Friend | Shirley Chase]
Then my friend stood, and with tears in her eyes, told how difficult it was for her to The Influence of a Friend rear her children (seven now) with her husband goneso much. "But," she said, "I have found that if I do not complain and cheerfully let him go and do the work I know the Lord wants him to do, the Lord sends a special spirit into our home that takes the place of our father and priesthood bearer. This spirit protects, comforts, and helps me just as my husband would if he were at home." My friend has so many wonderful qualities that it would take a whole book to tell all of them, but I must tell one more because it is so very rare. When I had only known her a few weeks I began telling her why I didn't like a neighbor. Instead of sympathizing with me and adding her own disparaging remarks, she said, "Well, I have known her for a long time and I'm sure when you really get to know her, you ll like her, too." I soon learned not to speak against anyone in her presence. She didn't dislike anyone. If someone did something of which she didn't approve, she would try to find out the motive. If she couldn't uncover a justifiable excuse, she would still not condemn. My friend and I are separated by a thousand miles now and I miss her terribly. Whenever I have a spiritual experience or learn a new gospel truth, I long to call her and share it with her, knowing she would understand and truly rejoice with me. When I have a new discipline problem with my children or discover a successful way to manage them, I wish I could lift the receiver and say to her, "Do you have a minute to talk?" 43 WHO WILL SHOW HER HOW? Dorothy F. Condry = FO HTT OMe EUCLA ALL LULL @ When my sister, Norma, came to see me last week, she handed me an old shoebox tied with string, saying, "I went by Aunt Cora's the other day and found her rummaging through her cedar chest. Suddenly she pulled out this box and handed it to me. I didn't know what to do with it, so I brought it to you." "What in the world is it?" I asked. "Why don't you open it and find out?" I untied the string and lifted the lid. The box was literally filled with exquisite tatting, in a combination of blue and white thread. "How beautiful!" I exclaimed. "Isn't it!"" Norma agreed. As I carefully examined the contents, I discovered a number of bundles of completed circles of tatted edging, tied together according to size. At the very bottom of the box were several linen doilies to which some of the lace had been sewed. What a lovely table setting this would make! There would be doilies large enough to use under platters and small enough for tumblers, along with several in-between sizes. I closed my eyes and visualized the completed linen set. "Grandma Dyer made the tatting for Aunt Cora years ago," Norma informed me. (Aunt Cora is now ninety years old.) "I thought it might be her work. It looks as though whoever started sewing the edging onto the doilies didn't keep at it very long." "Oh, Aunt Cora was supposed to do that," Norma explained. 'She didn't tell me why she gave up on the job, but I imagine it was for the same reason I[ don't want to tackle it—it's just too much needlework." Then she added, quickly, "But you have a lot of patience, Dorothy. Why don't you finish the set? It's yours, if you do!" "Thanks for the compliment—and the tatting. I suppose you knew I would accept your challenge. I only wish it had come sooner. That good old arthritis is really bothering my hands these days." As I undertake to complete this project on which Grandmother Dyer's fingers worked so diligently those many years ago, I am well aware of what a tedious task it will be. The linen circles first have to be finished with narrow, carefully rolled hems before the tatting can be sewed on with tiny stitches. But it will make such a gorgeous luncheon set, I am bound and determined to finish it—and in time to use it myself! Why? Because I'm not at all sure any of my children, or grandchildren, would appreciate, or even care to own, this, their great-grandmother's heirloom. Girls today, our young homemakers and mothers, show little interest in handwork. Embroidering and tatting are rapidly becoming lost arts. The other I day I asked my young daughter-in-law, "Don't you want me to teach you how to tat?" She shrugged her shoulders and merely replied, "Plastic doilies suit me just fine. They're so easy to keep clean, too." "But you have so many more gadgets to help with your housework than I did when I was your age, how is it I had time for handwork and you don't?" She looked at me a full minute, carefully weighing her reply. "When your mother was young, and even when you were my age, a mother was more or less relegated to her kitchen, or at least to one corner of the parlor, when politics, or public affairs were under discussion. A woman just wasn't supposed to know about such things, and her opinion was seldom sought on matters outside the home. Her opportunity for self-expression was what she could make with her hands. That's why. She spent so much time doing handwork.: 44 Who Will Show Her How? "Times have changed. Young mothers today are well-educated and are expected to have opinions on important matters. The radio and TV help us keep posted on local and world news as we go about our housework. We are encouraged to participate in community projects and to vote in political contests. We have innumerable opportunities for self-expression and no longer need to keep our opinions and personalities bottled up while we sit in a corner and knit." As she finished speaking, I just sat there, speechless. "Please don't think I'm being rude," she quickly apologized. 'But that's my answer to your question." I had to admit there was much truth in her explanation, but it left me feeling completely defeated in my effort to promote in her life what has so enriched mine. When I was only twelve, my neighbor's fifteen-year-old niece came visiting. One day, as I watched her knitting, I asked if she would show me how. She was more than willing and proved an excellent teacher. I soon learned how to knit and also how to crochet. My mother had previously showed me how to embroider, and a few years later my grandmother helped me master the art of tatting. I have thoroughly enjoyed these accomplishments through the years, and proudly use my handmade garments and home decorations. But now I find myself wondering—will these tokens of my efforts towards self-expression which I prize so highly be unappreciated and a lost art in the not too distant future? Recently, when my father's sister passed on, I became heir to some lovely doilies with drawn threads and intricate stitches—different from any I know how to make. There are also several centerpieces with edging made by combining crocheting and various kinds of braid, such as rickrack and coronation braid. I figured. Out how to make the edging, but the drawn work has me puzzled, and I know of no one who can show me how it was done. As I studied over that lovely needlework, which, to me, is a lost art, I couldn't help wondering, suppose some day my granddaughter looks with admiring eyes at a piece of my handwork, and has a desire to learn how it was made, will there be anyone around who can show her how?
