SO ig 4 Ss oY y ij ' ba { hi Wii LV ee -~ ~ ~ y - - e 2 * i ™ ~ by er women er eee ae ee - « « I ad - a a = ma é - 4 - -. " a" «" - « - B i i be + -: * he « * ae; ¢ t a « « " « BS l * « *« JOYOUS GREETINGS FOR 1969 The General Board extends a joyous greeting to every member of Relief Society as the year 1969 rises on the horizon. It is a time to look back, to weigh the events of the past year, and to look forward, resolving more vigorously to pursue eternal truth as it applies to one's individual life. How have weaknesses, sadness, goodness, and joys positioned one during the past year? The measure will be the degree of obedience to the first and second great commandments. Is the year richer in the essence of love which envelops one's thoughts and actions? A perfect love of Christ is the far goal. In its light all incidents of life are transmuted into eternal verities and viewed from the pinnacle of acceptance, "... Not my will, but thine, be done." (Luke 22:42.) In seeking the love of Christ it is heartening to recall what is written on the rich young ruler who could not forsake his worldly riches to take up the cross and follow Christ. In spite of this weakness, it reads "Then Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) So Jesus is ready to love everyone in spite of personal weaknesses and failings. Never need one feel forsaken or alone. Instead, a wellspring of thankfulness and nearness will warm and flood the soul. May 1969 become a memorable year of personal eternal progress amid the conflicts of the world. Love will bring peace to the soul and allow one to live in the world and yet not be of it, all the time pursuing the goal of eternal life. May this be the precious experience of every Relief Society member throughout the New Year. Affectionately, General Presidency erage ee Pee The Cover: Farmstead in Sanpete Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Frontispiece: Winter to the East, Near Snyderville, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.