STITUTION.

	IN the Constitutional Convention on the
morning of April 18th, the section on equal
suffrage which had passed its third reading
by a majority vote was brought up for re-
consideration, as had been previously de-
cided and the debate was limited to fifteen
minutes, so that the question was soon dis-
posed of without much argument on either
side. When the vote was taken it stood
sixty-nine to thirty-two, and the section as
originally formulated by the majority com-
mittee on Elections and Suffrage goes into
the Constitution of the New State giving
women equal political privileges with men.
On the same day the amendment for woman
suffrage passed in the state of New Jersey,
so that it really does seem to have been an
auspicious day for the cause.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony in a letter re-
ceived since the news reached her says,
“Hurrah for Utah No. 3, State—that estab-
lishes a genuine “Republican form of
Government.” I got the telegram just in
time Thursday evening to read it at our
city P. E. Club meeting, and there was a
big clapping of hands over it, then our
New Jersey State senate passed the amend-
ment bill the same afternoon, so we surely
may feel that the morning dawn streaks our
sky.”
	There will be great rejoicing over the
victory gained in Utah and it will certainly
be an encouragement to all those vho are
working for the enfranchisement of woman-
kind and the betterment of all mankind.
Certainly we as women are as deeply grateful
as it is possible to express without ostenta-
tion or display, but we appreciate in the
highest degree the efforts of the friends of
equal suffrage who so nobly stood by the
cause when so severely attacked by the
opposition. Some acknowledgement on be-
half of the women of this Territory is
eminently proper, and will assuredly be
made in good time, for the present, one feels
like being silently grateful to the Giver of
all good and hoping and praying that the
women of the new state may be wise,
prudent and cautious in the exercise of their
political rights.
	The newspapers have been usually on 
our side, but here and there opposition
bursts out—replying to some of these 
attacks and commenting upon speeches
made in the Convention the editor of the
MILLARD COUNTY BLADE has written some
vigorous articles, to which the writer’s'at-
tention has been drawn, and we thank him
very much for his able defense of the 

[Column Two]
principle, and for his kind and gracious 
words for all women. The following ex-
tract is from his editorial of April 10, 1895,
which we take great satisfaction in copy-
ing as it gives a dignified statement of wo-
man’s true position. 
	MITLARD COUNTY BLADE. 
	“The right that women have to equal
suffrage is above and beyond all “becauses,”
and especially where those “becauses” are
supposed to be involved in the political
rights of the sons of Ham. It is her right 
by virtue of her intelligence. It is her 
right by virtue of her superior morality and 
high standard of purity; a standard that 
man has not yet reached nor will ever reach
in politics until woman votes by his side. 
	Who is there that dare say, that thousands
of women who night, after night keep sleep-
less vigils and with tearful eye watch and 
wait for the return of the moral cowards of 
men that are spending their nights at the 
gaming tables,  are not as fully entitled to 
the franchise as their depraved life partners?
What male is there, that claims even the 
semblance of manhood, that would not ac-
cord equal political rights to her that, with
infinite sweetness and unwearied solicitude, 
bends over the couch of her sick child, and 
hour after hour and day after day nurses it 
back to life and health? The man that says
she is not as much entitled to suffrage
equally with the father that, mayhap, is 
snoring in bed, or carousing in some gin
mill, is a man only in his physical appear-
ance. A man that asserts she is not thus
entitled, is dead to every noble aspiration, to 
every progressive impulse and brands him-
self a back number that, by mischance, 
lives in an era that is several thousand years
in advance of the age to which he naturally
belongs.”


