KATE FIELD’S OPINION.

	THE current issue of Kate Field’s Wash-
ington, in the department headed “My
Mail Bag," contains the following.
	The woman's edition microbe has at-
tacked Salt Lake City, which is not strange,
as it first appeared in San Francisco:
	Will you write a short article on any subject
most pleasing to you for publication in a charity
edition of the————for April 28? However
brief it may be, an article of whatever nature
over your signature will be an attractive feature
for Salt Lake people, and for “sweet charity.” I
feel that your heart will respond at once; you will
see by the heading the work I am engaged in.
Your friends here are all well, and would love to
see you here. Don’t you ever think of coming
this way? Judge Goodwin is as witty as ever,
and is doing good work in the convention. We
are going to call an Anti-Suffrage meeting
Thursday and expect to have great fun. Wish
you could be here.
						GENTILE.
	The motto of the Associated Charities,
for which my friend appeals, is “To help
and not to pauperize.” I believe so 
thoroughly in that motto as to be forced to


say “no,” in order to save myself from
being eligible to associated charities nearer 
home. I feel that I have done my duty to
Utah. I have helped her to put herself in
harmony with the Union, and now I want
a little reciprocity. I don’t doubt the clever
editor of the Salt Lake Tribune is doing
good work in the Constitutional Convention.
It’s a way he has. As to the fun of the
anti-suffrage meeting I don’t see, from any
point of view, where it comes in. It was
useless, I’m glad to note. For Mormons
to deprive women of the ballot after women
had voted for twenty years under the reign
of Brigham Young and his successor would
be an outrage. Gentiles oppose the ballot
for women because they believe that Mor-
mon women will vote according to the
Priesthood. So to parry a possible evil
they are ready to deprive all women of
political equality. If Mormen women can’t
be trusted, Mormon men are equally dan-
gerous. Two wrongs don’t make a right.
More harm must come from injustice to one
whole sex than from giving power to those
who may add great strength to the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I’m
willing to run the risk. It is always safe
to do right. With woman suffrage even I,
might be induced to become a citizen of
Utah. Perhaps this possibility furnishes
another potent reason—with some—for not
giving my sex the ballot.


