ARBOR DAY.

Dear Editor:
WE name this tree in honor of Mrs. E.
B. Wells, Editor of the Woman’s EX-
PONENT.  A paper devoted to the “rights
of women of all nations.” Mrs. Wells
works hard for suffrage. She says, “There
are more women in Utah who own homes
and pay taxes than in any other place, with
the same number of people, hence they
ought to vote.”
	“Taxation without representation is
Tyranny,” and we plant this yellow ribbon
tree to keep this thought ever before us.
	MOAB, April 15th 1895.—Arbor Day,
should bring to all children many lessons,
and I trust this one, our first, will be most
fruitful. We chose wise teachers, worthy
soldiers, foremost minds—whose names
are sweet upon the lips of time.” And I
can assure you dear editor you are in very
good company.
	The boys chose Columbus, De Soto, Lin-
coln, Grant, Garfield, Webster, Clay, Edi-
son, Morse, Karl Maeser, Queen Isabella.
While for my Primary school I suggested,
Mary and Martha Washington, Frances
Willard, Elizabeth Grannis, Froeber, Field,
Washington, our school poet, Longfellow,
Clara Barton, (with whom I lived five
months at Johnstown after the flood) Susan
B. Anthony, Eliza R. S. Smith and your-
self as representing Utah.  So you are, in
Moab with the “Immortals.” How I
should like to be with you in May and
should my school close in time it is not un-
likely.  I have heard Miss Anthony often
in Pennsylvania as well as Rev. A. Shaw,
the last time I met her was in Norriston


Pennsylvania.  Miss Anthony’s sister was
at Johnstown when I was and we had
many talks about her illustrious sister.  God
bless her.
  
	I feel that if each tree were decorated
with an appropriate symbol, the object
lesson would be greater, so we had yellow
ribbon on your’s and Miss Anthony’s tree,
blue for Miss Willard, white for Mrs.
Grannis, a red cross flag on Miss Barton’s,
national flags on soldiers, the colors of-
Spain on Spanish discoverers, pink ribbons
for poets, cardinals for educators, electric
blue for inventors. The banner of Ferdi-
nand and Isabella on Queen Isabella’s tree.
So you will understand the reference to yel-
low ribbon.
	Thanks for information about Mrs.
Smith.  I took my sketch of her, from your
paper also “Her Ode to Liberty” which we
recited.
	I subscribe to so many home publications
I cannot afford many here but I must have
a Suffrage paper of this locality.  With
thanks and the hope we may some day see
you in Moab, l am, Yours Sincerely,
