[Column 2]
fearless explorer; to cheer him in his
perilous campaigns of exploration, in the
savage conflicts of the political arena, on
the sanguine field of battle, keeping his re-
cords, compiling his reports, preserving his
memoirs for the grateful day to come.
	Do you tell me of Hannah Adams, the
woman of higher education, the first Ameri-
can woman to make literature a profession,
whose work on the religions of the world
gave her precedence in England overall
the men of letters of America?
	Then I will tell you of Maria Mitchell,
walking among the stars, leading the
scientists of the world, winning the medals
of kings and potentates.
	Do you point out the woman who has
taken upon herself holy vows, Elizabeth
Bollinger Collins, stirring up her followers
to purity of life, and exemplifying in her
conduct the truths she committed to others?
	Then I will tell you of Lucretia Mott,
persecuted for righteousness’ sake the
purest, sweetest, whitest soul in all the
swelling retinue of women who emulate
her virtues and carry on her work.
	Do you tell me of her whose blessed
mission it is to "cheer and comfort and
command?” Of Harriet Chew, whom
Washington chose as a companion when he
sat for Gilbert Stuart’s celebrated portrait,
because, as he tells us, “her genial conver-
sation will give my countenance its most
agreeable expression” lovely and excellent
Harriet Chew, to whom we owe that per-
petual peace upon the benignant face of
Washington!
	Then I will tell you of Harriet Dane,
that beautiful spirit of light flashing
through the sombre shadows of Buchanan’s
administration or of that marvel of the
World's Fair era, Bertha Honore Palmer,
winning the plaudits of two continents by
the imperial power of womanly graces.
	Do you tell me of Ann Gooch, of Virginia,
mother of the great Thomas L. Benton,
who taught her son to be pure in his life
and habits as a girl who in all his long
public life, when the standard of manhood
was trailed lower than now never drank,
smoked, or gambled because he promised
his mother never to do so?
	Then I will tell you of Lucy Webb
Hayes, holding to her convictions through
storms of calumny and ridicule, never to
place the wine-cup on a table of her serv-
ing; Lucy Webb Hayes, whose smile was a
benediction, whom men loved, women
praised, and little children, rising up,
called blessed.
	Do you tell me of ‘‘Mother” Bailey,
searching for the wounded among the mass-
acred at Fort Griswold, bringing the wife
and the child to receive the last blessing of
the dying patriot?
	I will tell you of “Mother” Bickerdyke,
on the battlefield at midnight, holding
down her lantern to the faces of the dead,
lest, perchance, some poor wounded boy
had been left by the stretcher-bearer to die
alone and uncomforted.
	Do you tell me of Sarah Franklin Bache,
daughter of Benjamin Franklin, minister-
ing with her own hands to the sick and
wounded in the Philadelphia hospitals,
collecting food and money and medicine,
directing twenty-two hundred women in
the sewing rooms, making garments for
Washington’s half-clad army, yet withal
the helpful mother of a brood of little
children, and the exemplar of domestic
virtues held up by Marquis de Chastillux to
the women of France?

[Column 3]
	I will tell you of the deeds of Dorothea
Dix, of Mary A. Livermore, of Clara Bar-
ton, of the women innumerable of Boston,
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Cin-
cinnati, Chicago, of the whole mighty
North of the aid societies and sanitary
commissions and the millions of dollars
they raised and expended in time of war
of the homes they have founded, the hos-
pitals they have built, the hosts they have
comforted and assisted since the dawn of
peace.
	Yes, and I will tell you of the women of
the South of their hardships and priva-
tions in the cause they believed to be right
of the sacrifices they made, beyond the
sacrifices of the women of the North, be-
cause of their isolation and lack of means
—sacrifices reflecting undying splendor up-
on the courage and endurance and faith of
the womanhood of America.
	Do you tell me of that strong woman of
the judicial head and the gentle heart,
Abagail Adams, first American patriot to
declare for independence, first to demand
better care for women in the laws of the
Republic that grand woman, maligned by 
pretty politicians, scorned by the ignorant
and tyrannical.
	I will tell you of Lydia Maria Child, the
first American to write a book demanding
the emancipation of the slave, and press
the rights of women over whose bier
Wendell Phillips said, “She was the kind
of woman one would, choose to represent
woman's entrance into broader life—modest,
womanly, sincere, solid, real, loyal, to be
trusted, equal to affairs and yet above them,
a companion with the password of every
science and all literature.”
	Beautiful are the women of the Revolu-
tion in the reflected light of their daughters.
Lucretia Mott, chosen by the United States
humanitarians to represent the Republic in
the World’s Anti-Slavery Society in Lon-
don, denied a seat because she was a wom-
an, and raising a storm of indignation
which has opened the schools and colleges
and conventions of the world to women.
	Jane Gray Swisshelm, whose printing-
office was mobbed in Pittsburg and its con-
tents thrown in the river because she de-
manded the repeal of the old chattel laws
in Pennsylvania relating to women and
children, thus starting an agitation that led
to humane legislation. Lucy Stone, howled
down by a mob in New York, yet living to
see the day when she was carried in the
arms of that magnificent army of women,
of whose cause she was the pioneer, at the
World’s Fair Congress of Women. Julia
Dent Grant, going down with the general
of the armies under the guns of Vicksburg,
to give her personal support to Annie
Wittenmeyer, bearing comfort to the wound-
ed men in the neglected field hospitals.
Anna Ella Carroll, true to the name and
fame of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, free-
ing her slaves to convert her patrimony into
literature appealing to Maryland, by all her
glorious past, to hold herself true to the
Union. Anna Ella Carroll, counselor of
Lincoln and Stanton, author of the Tennes-
see campaign, for whose reward her country
gave a cot in a free hospital and the martyr’s
entrance into the ranks of the immortals.
Susan B. Anthony, tried and fined for vot-
ing at the Presidential election of 1872—a
fine that still stands unpaid, because those
who passed sentence believed her plea that
“resistance to tyranny is obedience to
God.”
	But, like Paul, what shall I more say?


For the time would fail me to tell of all
those who, through faith, have subdued
kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained
promises, escaped the edge of the sword,
out of weakness were made strong, of
whom the world was not worthy; of the
women who have let the oppressed go free,
who have girdled the earth with a white
ribbon, who have opened the harems and
zenanas of the Old World, who are found-
ing homes and reformatories and hospitals
and schools; who are standing by the
strikers and the labor unions, and assert
the might of right against the right of
might; who proclaim the glad message of
peace at home and abroad; who are destined,
in the providence of God, to make and
keep this American Republic the land of
happy hearts and busy lives, and the im-
partial dispenser of every good and perfect
gift ordained of Heaven and esteemed of
men.
