THE EXPLOSION.

IT was nearing the close of a busy day,
In the Almy Village not far away:
When the faithful wife with tender care
Hastened the evening meal to prepare.
The kettle sings its cheerful song,
And the children are helping with supper along
For papa all day has been driving the drill
in the deep dark mine beneath the hill,
Thankful for work to earn his bread.
That his darlings at home may be clothed and few
Tis joy to prepare for that fathers return,
Who labors his household comfort to earn.
Things are moving on thus in the usual way
Toward the close of that busy day.
But hark! A sound falls on the ear,
And the stoutest heart stands still with fear
One mother springs forward, in agony wild


Closely clasping her terrified child.
Another, pale, silent, breathes but a moan,
As she gazes upward like statue of stone,
On that huge black cloud that is rising high
Awfully grand, ’gainst the clear blue sky.
For O, what words are needed to tell
Of the father’s grave ’tis a funeral knell,
Who a moment before was strong, bright and gay
Just preparing to leave the work of the day.
And lure him away to his family nest.
Where father, mother and child might rest,
But the fire damp, gathered with deadly power
Prepared the grim monster an opportune hour,
With three score strong men in his path
Dashes along in his terrible wrath,
Spreading death and carnage in his rear,
Bedewing his path with the orphan’s tear,
Torn away the strength of many a home,
Leaving tender children and mothers alone
For those whoes freed spirits went home that day
Perhaps, yes we hope, in a painless way—
We have naught to fear, for God is just,
And meet the reward of their works they must, 
But sympathies tears unbidden start,
While their sorrows are echoed from heart to
	heart,
Too plainly in fancy we see the bowed head
And the mother lie down in her widowed bed
We pray to that Father who reigns on high
Who has promised to list to the orphan’s cry,
Pour balm, O Lord, on their souls to night,
With thy loving care direct them'right,
That He’ll comfort and guide all along the way
Is the heart felt prayers all Israel pray,
And all honor be to that noble band
Who bravely faced the grim monster death
Who had snatched away their comrades breath
These brought them forth to an honored grave,
Such men must be counted the truly brave.
