[Column 1]
Of all the men of the Revolution who
signed the Declaration of Independence,
there is but one who was early orphaned
and without a patriot mother but he was
early wedded to a woman who was wife
and mother in one in all that was strong
and sweet and wise and helpful and self-
sacrificing. The mothers of Washington
and Adams and Jefferson were especially
great and a historian of the period says,
“If the Adamses were more pronounced
patriots than the Dickenses, it was because
the women of the family were less afraid
of the executioner’s axe.”
	Whether among the exiled Scotch-Irish
of North Carolina, the persecuted Catholics
of Maryland, forbidden to teach their
children in their own schools, in a colony
they had founded on religious toleration,
the Quakers and Huguenots and Palatin-
ates of Pennsylvania, the freedom-loving
Hollanders of New York, or the Puritans
of New England, the history of the women
of the Revolution is deep graven with the
deeds of men on the foundation-stone of the
Republic.
	Education in those days began at the
mother’s knee the object lessons were
example and precept rather than book and
rule In Jefferson’s resolve never to en-
gage, while in public office, in any enter-
prise to improve his fortune, is reflected the
brave mother, Mary Randolph, who taught
her children to live the songs of freedom
she sang to them so sweetly beside the
blazing log fires of old Virginia.
	George Washington inherited his military
genius from his father through a long line
of Norman warriors; from his mother his
indomitable will, his imperious temper, his
endurance, his practical insight into the
affairs of men. When, allured by the
spirit of adventure, he was about to enter
the British Navy, she turned his attention
to civil engineering, through which he was
trained for the rigors of a seven years’ war.
	His faith in the triumph of right and
sublime modesty in success was illustrated
in his mother when Lafayette called upon
her, after Cornwallis’s surrender, to con-
gratulate her upon the victories of her son
—“I am not surprised at what George has
done; he always was a good boy.”
	Washington’s reverence for his mother
was shown when he hastened to her side
upon his election as first President of the
Republic. “Go, George,” was her good-
bye, ‘‘fill the destiny Heaven has assigned
you you have your mother s blessing now
as in the past. You will see me no more.”
And the hero of the continents laid his
head on his mother’s breast and wept like
a child.
	Show me your ideal woman of the Revo-
lution and I will show you the woman of
which she was the prototype. Conditions
change—womanhood never!
	Do you tell me of Elizabeth Schuyler,
wife of Alexander Hamilton, the Nestor
of the Revolution, his counselor, secretary,
compiler of his records, who preserved the
manuscripts of 1775—1804. acquired by
the government in 1849,and which brought
to light the true history of revolutionary
events?
	Then, I will tell you of Jessie Benton
Fremont, wife of the great “Pathfinder,”
who led his famishad men over the snow-
capped Rockies to richer conquest than did
Hannibal crossing the Alps. I will tell
you how a brave young daughter of a
United States Senator gave up the pleasures
of the capital to follow the fortunes of a

