MEN OF THE REPUBLIC.

[Read, at the National Council of Women,
Washington, D. C.]
	THE women of the Republic are the
direct heritors of the women of the Revolu-
tion. All talk of a new woman is a mere
fable. There is no new woman.
	Ever and always it is the same woman;
the woman who went forth from Eden with
never a flimsy excuse upon her lips; the
woman who sang thepaeons of the Exodus
the woman who spins among her maidens
while Ulysses roams the seas; the woman
who proves to her Roman neighbors the
redeeming power of Christianity upon a
husband by showing the healed wound up-
on her arm; the woman who launched the
bark of Columbus; the woman kneeling on
the bleak shores of Plymouth; the woman
who made the homespun suit for the in-
augural of her husband as first President
of the Republic; the woman who taught
that President, when yet a little lad, that it
is better to trust in the Lord than to put
confidence in princes.
	Blessed womanhood of the world! With-
out it earth would be a howling wilderness,
such as Dante saw and was afraid.
	Behold the women of the Revolution!
They roll the logs beside their husbands to
build their rude cabins; they sow, they reap,
they card and spin and make the garments
of the household; they rear rosy sons and
daughters; they teach them the Sermon on
the Mount—reverence for holy things, re-
spect for authority; courage, reliance, self-
control; but, above all, that it is the right
of every soul to be free to follow the dic-
tates of conscience, and that resistance to
tyrants is obedience to God.
	When the great conflict comes they are
ready, and when the husband and father
and the older sons join the patriot army
they gather their little ones around them,
and their faith and fortitude hold them true,
fleeing now from the hostile savages on the
wild frontier, now from the the harrying
Hessians scou ing through farms and ham-
lets, but oftener with busy wheel and
loom and kneading-board hoarding their
resources, their struggling country’s needs.
	Martha Washington kept thirteen spin-
ning-wheels running at Mount Vernon, to
make clothing for men, women, and child-
ren. Women in the towns banded them-
selves together to wear homespun, to give
up laces and frills of foreign make—just as
men gave up their ruffled shirts and their
broadcloth and their silken hose. And let
it stand forever to the credit of the women
of the Revolution that, in the darkest
hours of the struggle for independence,
when plottings and conspiracies were under-
mining the influence of Washington and
tying the hands of the Continental Con-
gress, they never lost their confidence and 
courage, but fed, clothed, and inspired
with never-failing hope the barefoot patri-
ots of Trenton and Valley Forg .
	John Quincy Adams, in a speech before
the United States Congress, asserting the
rights of women to petition on political
subjects, said, “The voice of history
speaks, trumpet-tongued, of the daring and
intrepid spirit of patriotism burning in the 
bosom of the woman of that day.” Yet
when we search for facts concerning wo-
man’s part in the history of the Revolu-
tion, it is like culling flowers by the
flashes of midnight lightning. Washington
Irving, the beloved, has not so much as a
word even for Martha Washington’s work
at Mount Vernon.
	As in all times and nations, the women
of the Revolution must be studied chiefly
through the deeds of their husbands and 
fathers, in the reflected light of their sons
and daughters. They were the supporting
columns of the Revolution, investing the
patriot army as the gods of Olympus did
he contending hosts of Troy.


