				MARY E. FORSYTHE.

	WE are called to mourn the death of our be-
loved Sister Mary Anderson, who died of an
operation of a tumor, Jan 2nd, 1895. Sister Mary
was born in Denmark, July 15th, 1843; was Coun-
selor in the Big Cottonwood Ward Relief Society
which office she has faithfully filled. She was
quiet and unassuming in her disposition but
firm in the principles of her religion.
	She was faithiul in the performance of her
duties, working for the benefit of the society,
visiting the poor and comforting those in trouble;
her name is worthy of record. She leaves a kind
husband and a host of friends to mourn her loss,
her children died in their infancy.
								COM.

	IN memory of Mrs. Hannah M. Wright who
died on March 3rd, 1895, at her home in Mill
Creek, Salt Lake Co.
	She was born in Sheffield, England, March 7th,
1814, and was the daughter of George and Ann Wat-
son. She was the wife of Elder Joseph Wright
deceased; and leaves two sons three daughters,
twenty five grand-children and eighteen great
grand children to mourn her loss.
	Brother and Sister Wright emigrated to Utah in
the year 1849, located in Salt Lake City, for a
short time, then moved to Mill Creek Ward
where she resided until her death.
	Sister Wright was a faithful Latter-day Saint.
She was all that constitutes a true woman, gentle
and kind in her domestic circle, she was a lov-
ing wife and mother. Possessing great faith
caused her to withstand acute suffering in order
that she might cleave unto her family as long as
possible. Her parting was as peaceful as though
quietly falling asleep. She was surrounded by
all her children, all that loving hands could do for
her was done.
	She was a faithful member of the Relief Society
altho’ unable to meet with her sisters, she liberally
donated to the poor and suffering.
	She performed a noble work in the St. George
Temple for her dead. Brother Wright was one
of the first who was called to Dixie to settle that
country, he obeyed the call taking a part of the
family with him.
	Sister Wright’s funeral was held in the Mill
Creek Ward House; the services were conducted
by Bishop J. C. Hamilton; appropriate remarks
were made by President Joseph E. Taylor, Bishop
McRae, Elder John Kedington and several of the
local brethren, which were very consoling to the
bereaved family.
	The remains were followed to the Ward Ceme

