RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City, Thursday April 4th, 1895,
President Zina D. H. Young presiding,
Sisters Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, M. Isabella Horne, E. B. Wells,
General Officers, with several Presidents of
Stakes and others were on the stand. Meet-
ing commenced at 10 a. m. with singing,
“Lord we come before thee now.” Prayer
was offered by Sister Horne, continued by
singing, “Do what is right.” Minutes of
morning meeting of previous conference
were read, by the Secretary. President
Young spoke a few minutes in her kind
motherly way, mentioned that it was the
Fast day but hoped the sisters had come
fasting to the conference as they would
have done, had they attended the fast meet-
ing, the Lord would bless those who had
come to the conference in that same spirit.
	President Mary Pitchforth of Juab Stake,
said they had recently held a Conference at
Nephi, and had an enjoyable time, she had
been very ill and was still feeble, but had
been healed through faith and the power of
the priesthood; referred to the young girls
who were coming forward to assist in the
Relief Society, and also of the help they
were in the Primary, spoke eloquently of
the advancement women were making in
various directions.
	President Mary A. Hyde Sanpete Stake
also spoke of the two days Conference held
recently, had visited the stake of late and
found all trying to do their best, thought it
was a time when we should look into our
own hearts, and put on the armor of
righteousness.
	Counselor Ann C. Woodbury St. George
Stake, felt it a pleasure to travel so far to
come and see the sisters, there were thirty-
eight on the train coming up to Conference,
they had started in a snow storm, referred
with much feeling to Sister Julia Ivins-
whose death had occurred a few months be
fore, her demise was a very great loss in
the society, she had been an active worker
in the Primary also, spoke of having
visited the Eastern part of their stake since
last conference; she alluded to the franchise
and said she wanted to see women get the
right to vote, made excellent remarks upon
silk culture.
	Counselor Lorinda Thompson of Millard
Stake, said they visited the different branches
as often as possible, some of the distances
were long and they had the disadvantage
of bad roads sometimes she felt very tired;
but generally found all doing their duty,
taking care of the sick, and saving grain;
at threshing time the sisters asked their
husbands for a bushel or two of wheat to
replenish their bins. Before she was called
to this position she had been sickly but
since had been able to do what was ex-
pected not only in the Relief Society but in
the Sunday School and the Primary, was
greatly exercised about the youth of Zion
had done her best to teach them correct
principles. President Elizabeth Bean,
Sevier Stake, said they had many poor in
their county who needed assistance, there
were sixty widows, she had taken consider-
able time visiting the several branches
in the Stake and getting everything in prop-
er order, hoped to have all the secretaries
keep uniform accounts. At their Conferences
they had always a lecture in the afternoon
on some church subject, each Society ap-
pointed one sister to lecture once a month
on some church subject, thought we should
educate the sisters to take care of the grain,
had herself had special instruction on the
subject, her stake was very large but hoped
to do her work thoroughly. Counselor
Minerva W. Snow of Sanpete spoke
specially of the work in the Manti Temple,
of the blessings received there and the union
that prevailed. Spoke of the fast meeting
the society held there in behalf of the sisters
who went to Washington, and felt their
prayers had been answered, dwelt much
upon humility and charity for each others
weaknesses.
	President Jane S. Richards, of Ogden,
reported Weber Stake as in excellent con-
dition she always had a good turn out at
their Conference in Weber Stake, the
Bishops were very helpful, and would come
and take the visiting sisters whenever they
wanted to go and hold meetings, sometimes
she felt the Society should be more ener-
getic and lead out in other directions.
	President Horne spoke for Salt Lake
Stake, in reference to the care of the needy
and afflicted a good work is being done, the
new regulations, or the  reorganization, so
as to be uniform in a national way, had made
some difference but it would soon become
better understood. Sister Horne bore a
good testimony of the Prophet Joseph, and
how glad she was to have heard him speak
as he did to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.
Mentioned Sister Woodbury and her ex-
perience in crossing the plains when she
was quite young, that she walked nearly all
the way through ravines, and all sorts of
places and when sitting down by the way,
she would empty the water out of her boots
and go on her way, never murmuring at
the hardships of the journey. Sister Horne
also spoke of the efforts being made to es-
tablish Kindergarten schools that all our
little ones might be taught in that method,
wanted each President in the County to
consider the matter and see what could be
done in her respective ward, and hoped all
would be united, though these schools


would be expensive to fit up with necessary
material.
	President Barber, of Cache Stake, could
report a good work spiritually, if not in
other ways, the temple was full of workers;
they had been disappointed in their silk
worm eggs last year, but hoped to have
better luck this year, and the sisters had
courage to do what was necessary in all
lines of work. Referred eloquently to the
geneological work being done here and else-
where related a dream touching upon this
subject.
	Counselor Reese, of Box Elder Stake,
spoke beautifully of their President Sister
Widerborg, represented the society every
branch as doing well, and told of their fine
granary filled with wheat to which they
were adding from year to year.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the live
issue of the day the question of equal suf-
frage then pending in the Constitution,
referred to some conversation she had with
members of Congress on the subject, while in
Washington recently, had full faith that the
section on suffrage would be inserted in the
Constitution, believed in equal political
rights for men and women. Sister E. S.
Richards felt women were a power and
should be in this day and hour, perhaps the
opposition was necessary, but we should
do all we could to uphold the question and
be united and stand firm, referred to the ap-
preciation of Utah votes in convention in
Washington when she was there, Utah
standing next to New York, gave some ac-
count of proceedings in Chicago, Miss
Anthony had asked her to speak of our or-
ganizations and how proud she felt to
represent them.
	Mrs. Richards made a motion that all the
women who favored equal suffrage in the
Constitution stand, Mrs. Smith seconded, and
every woman in that large congregation
was on her feet immediately. Sang
Doxology, adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by B. W. Smith.
