W. H. P. R. CLASS. 
			WAYNE COUNTY.
	THROUGH the perseverance of Sister J.
S. Coleman, president of the Relief Socie-
ty of Wayne Stake, the W. H. P. R.
Class was organized at Loa, Wayne Co.,
January 8th, 1895 with an enrollment of
twenty-four members, increased attendance 
twenty-five, decrease one—ending March
2nd, 1895, with an enrollment of forty-
eight members.
	The motto of the class is “The Physical
Redemption of our sex to the glory of man-
kind.”
	The object is to study and understand
nature and her most holy laws, so
thoroughly that we may know woman and
all her needs through life, qualifying her
for her true mission of wife, mother and
nurse.
	The beautiful principles of life have been
most efficiently advanced by our noble
teacher, Sister Hannah Sorensen.
	With a practical knowledge of thirty-
four years personal experience with woman,
she has appealed to reason, while pointing
out the beautiful truths as well as the many
absurd errors found in the text book King’s
Manual of Obstetrics—By the aid of which
together with the anatomical chart and the
female—skeleton, we have studied
obstetrics in its truest form—giving to the
woman a perfect knowledge of herself as
well as that of her family.
	Hygienic laws have been treated very
seriously and carefully in all its details, as 
regards diet, dress, exercise, importance of
pure air, cleanliness, order, purity in
married life, regularity of habits, avoidance
of disease and treatment when they do
come. All so necessary to the health and 
happiness of mankind.
	All the class members have been exceed-
ingly punctual and attentive, very few hav-
ing absented themselves and those who
have been reasonably excused on
account of sickness Sister Sorensen says
it is the most punctual class she has ever
had.
	Surprising interest has been manifested
by every member all through the class, all
have strained their minds to grasp and
understand all the principles as they have
been unfolded so beautifully. As far as it
is known they (the principles) will all be
heartily sustained and supported by every
member.
	All who have taken part in composition
writing have shown how strong and
heavenly have been the impressions of re-
form—those who have not written upon
it have the same impressions at heart.
	Testimonies have been borne by all either
written or orally, with a very few excep-
tions, that now life is more dear and future
hope more bright than ever before, that
they can appreciate and acknowledge God’s
workmanship in beautiful nature which has
opened to our view so much more glorious
grandeurs and harmonious purposes than
had ever before even been thought of. Many
heretofore mysteries of woman’s mission
have been revealed as being natural effects
of natural causes—God’s hand but not al-
ways God’s will can be seen in the disas-
trous works of the destroyer as he claims
the prey resulting from nature’s broken
laws.
	The principles of the Gospel, which are
so much in harmony with the class work,
have been made more plain, now we under-
stand why God has given His command-
ments.
	Acquaintances have been formed in this
class which will bring reflections of joy and
pleasure to those participating therein. The
members have expressed themselves as be-
ing thankful to God for the privilege they
have had of attending this class. All have
learned to love Sister Hannah Sorensen
very dearly as teacher and friend, and felt
to bless her every day of her life together
with Sister J. S. Coleman.
	The closing exercises consisted of com-
positions and lectures on subjects studied in
the class, intermingled with miscellaneous
exercises and remarks by the brethren and
testimonies of a few of the class members.
