 BOX ELDER STAKE.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief
Society, of Box Elder Stake, convened in

[Column 3]
the Tabernacle, Brigham City, on the 12th
of March. President Olivia Widerborg
presiding. Singing, “Our God we come to
Thee.” Prayer by Bishop A. A, Jensen
Singing: “We are not ashamed to own our
Lord.” Roll called, minutes read and ac-
cepted. Reports read from all the branches,
by Secretary Annie Wixom. Sister Han-
nah Harper: If we realize our mission here
on earth we would attend to our duties
when we do, we increase in faith.
	Treasurer Fannie Graehl read the report
of the Stake Treasury.
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker: I feel we gain
strength from our Heavenly Father in
meeting together.
	Sister Christine Jensen: If only we could
realize that we are the most blest people, we
sometimes will grumble, but then we would
never murmur.
	Sister Dewey: We read the Lectures on
Faith in the Doctrine and Covenants, we
also take the Deseret News.
	Sister Owens: We should be prayerful,
and not look at each others failings.
	Sister Watkins: We have good meetings,
it seems to me we have had an increase of 
the flow of the Spirit of the Lord.
	Sister Widerborg announced that the
sisters of the Fourth Ward had prepared a
lunch for those from afar, in the vestry.
	Singing: “Truth reflects upon our
senses.” Benediction by Elder Lyman
Wight.
	Afternoon Session: Singing, “Once more
we come.” Prayer by Elder Crawford.
Singing, “Sweet is thy work, my God, my
King.”
	Condensed report read by Secretary
Annie Wixom.
	President Olivia Widerborg: My heart is
so full of gratitude to our Heavenly Father,
for His kindness to all of us, and for that
portion of the Spirit we enjoy today. If
you want to be the guardian angel of your
homes, even if you are wronged, do your
duty; our work is to relieve sorrow, suf-
fering and the needy and it is a work of
peace.
	Counselor Mary Wright: Charity is good,
if we have it in our bosom, it will increase
our faith.
	Sister Susannah Booth: We will all
have a reward for what good we do, if we
work together in unison and love.
	Sister Cecilia Nelsen: Sisters, do not be
afraid to give to those who need worse than
yourself, for the Lord will give you ten
fold back; once in a while we feel crushed,
and a kind word will be a blessing.
	Sister Ella Watkins: I felt to show my
willingness in doing my duty, or I should
not have been here. I think it quite a
responsibility to use wisely the means the
sisters have donated.
	Sister Harding: I know the Lord will
hear us, when we come before Him in the
spirit of humility.
	Sister Thorne: I believe we are trying to
do the best we can, in our weak way.
	Sister Mary Jansen: If we do a little good,
it is more benefit to ourselves, than those
we do it to.
	Sister Boden: I feel truly we have had 
a feast, it seems everyone who has spoken,
has  been filled with the Holy Spirit.
	Sister Mary Fridahl: Our Bishop has
called two of each association, to visit with
the other.
	Sister Annie Bowring: If we are not
subject to those placed over us, we do not
advance, and that is what we are here for.
	Emilia D. Madson: Let us strive to per-


form our duties, and remember the Lord in
the days of joy, and He will not forget us
in the day of sorrow.
	President Olivia Widerborg: I can bear
this testimony: that my sisters here are
earnest, faithful workers, I feel to praise the
holy name of our Father, in heaven, amen.
	Singing, "Guide, us, Oh Thou great
Jehovah.” Adjourned for three months.
Benediction Sister Barnard.
			Emilia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec.


