Shanksgiving Louise Spencer ORE than three hundred years ago a small band of people to whom right and wrong meant more than life itself, left their home shores and all they had ever known to embark in a small vessel, with a poorly charted course, over a great ocean, to a vaguely known destination. Surely there must have been times when a flood of fear rose up in their hearts, fear that could be smothered only in the blessed relief of prayer. Prayer and the belief that God led them. And he did guide them, not to the sunny southland of which they had dreamed, but rather to the rigors of the rugged country soon to be known as New England. Here they were to leave their mark on civilization. Here their choice posterity was to become a force for righteousness on earth., That first winter the grim reaper took many of their number by the hand and led them to still another land. But those who remained never lost their courage—nor their hope— nor their faith in God. When spring came they planted seeds, only hoping to be allowed to reap what they had sown. God was merciful and granted to them an abundant harvest. - So overflowing with gratitude were the hearts of these people that they found it insufficient expression of their feelings to merely say, "We thank thee, God." Out of their need for a greater expression they set aside one day to be used for the giving of thanks to him. Their tables were heavily laden with a portion of that most important harvest, and the Pilgrim, who had known so many lean days, with his friend the Indian, sat down together to feast. Today, we remember those people and their many fine deeds. For we, like them, have found a need for giving thanks for our harvest and for all of which it is symbolical. For if there were no peace among men in our midst there would be no harvest; if there had been storms and havocs of nature there would be no harvest; if God had not watched over the seed and given it power of increase there would be no harvest. Without harvest the earth would soon be desolate and without life. So, following the good example of our Pilgrim Fathers, we of this generation have set aside one day after each harvest for thanksgiving to God.: