Homemade Laundry Soap Bernice Stookey Linford INGREDIENTS: 1 can powdered lye 5 Ibs. Fat 4% quarts water Makes 16 large or 32 small bars Choose a container large enough so that the soap will not boil over and one that will not be affected by lye. A 5-gallon honey can from which the top has been removed and the edges hammered smooth is ideal. Never use aluminum unless discarded from use in cooking. DIRECTIONS: Pour 1% qts. Cold water into the soap cooker. Add one can powdered lye. Stir with a hardwood stick until lye is dissolved. (Lye is so caustic it will dissolve soft wood, leaving splinters in the soap. An old broom handle or dow] bought at a hardware store is excellent for stirring). To the lye water add 5 pounds of rendered or unrendered fat; beef, mutton, deer, elk, horse, or a mixture. Cut the fat in % or 1-inch pieces and cook for 30 minutes, stirring often. If you have no scales, a quart fruit jar filled with fat cut in % or 1-inch pieces equals about one pound. After cooking 30 minutes, measure 3 quarts of warm water, add 1 quart, then add at intervals about 1 cup every ten minutes until remaining 2 quarts have been added during the next hour and a half period. When the soap has cooked for about 2 hours from the time it began to boil it should drop from the soap stick in a heavy sheet like honey and should thread like cake icing. When it forms this test it is done. Let cool overnight in the can, then shred on potato shredder or grind in food grinder so it will dissolve easily in water, or cut and dry in bars. BE VERY CAREFUL TO DESTROY LYE CANS AT ONCE so no small child or animal can touch them. Little children have been made blind or severely burned by touching lye. During cooking soap must be watched constantly so heat can be regulated. It boils over very easily and will cause severe skin burns or destroy linoleum. Strong vinegar applied to skin or hands or linoleum, if soap should boil over, will partially counteract its effect. If you use melted fat for soap, use 5 full pints. Cook, following directions for solid fat. The fresher the fat the whiter and sweeter smelling the soap. Rancid fat makes brown, strong smelling soap, but it can be used satisfactorily for laundry and cleaning purposes. Pork cracklings can be used for making soap, but they are more tissue than fat and are very valuable for food. Try adding a few to deer or elk steak when frying, to dressing when stuffing fowl or wild game, or add some to scalloped or fried potatoes. They are delicious added to cooked cabbage, beets, etc. One cupful added to carrot steamed pudding or to your raisin bread or oatmeal cookies or even to mincemeat will add a nutty flavor in addition to the fat. If you use cracklings for soap it will require about 8 pounds, depending on how much of the fat has been removed while cooking the cracklings, instead of 5 pounds of unrendered suet. It may be necessary to add a little more water also. Page 758