RECIPE FOR CORNED BEEF Christine Eaton 10 lbs. Brisket or rump Y% cup warm water (for dissolving saltpeter) qts. Water % tsp. Saltpeter 2 cups salt (not iodized) % cup sugar 3 cloves garlic (if desired) 1 tsp. Paprika 1 tbsp. Mixed spices Dissolve saltpeter in % cup warm water, add salt to cold water, mix with rest of ingredients,- and place in a 3-gallon stone jar, add meat, cover with plate, and weight down with a stone. Leave in brine 21 days, turing meat occasionally. Take out of brine and cover with cold water, boil slowly for about 3 or 4 hours, or until done. If unable to use this entire recipe at once, the extra beef may be sealed with broth in sterilized jars. 767 "Door Little Rosalee'' (Continued from page 741) been willing, of course, but—" she faltered, and looked imploringly at Alta. "Tt's about all any of us can do to look after our own," said Alta crisply, determined color flying in her cheeks. "Of course, in a case of emergency, it's different, but we feel that your emergency is over, Rosalee." Rosalee said nothing. Her attention seemed withdrawn, as if her own thoughts demanded all of it. Minerva said, "It's too much for Alta to do your washing for you any longer, Rosalee. She has three girls in school, and they have so many things in the wash every week." From the bemused expression on her face, it was plain to see that Rosalee was only half listening. "Don't you think you could do your own washing now, and your ironing?" demanded Alta, abruptly. The question startled Rosalee into answering. "Why, I don't know. Maybe I could. But of course, I never have done it, all by myself." "Then it's about time you began," suggested Alta. "What we mean, dear, is that from now on, you'll have to manage by yourself. We were glad to help you out when you needed us, but you don't need us any longer." Minerva leaned back in her chair with the air of one who had put the thing into a nutshell at last. Rosalee sprang to her feet. Her heels tapped quickly to the door, where she paused, and faced them. "Really, I guess it has been hard on everyone. And I do appreciate all you've done. But if it hadn't been for Orvie, I just don't know how I'd have stood it. He's been so kind, and considerate. He's taking me to dinner and a show tonight." She glanced uncertainly toward the sand pile where the little boys were playing. "I guess we could take the boys with us." "Oh, no, go ahead. That's all right," began Alta, but Rosalee was already half way down the path, waving goodbye to her boys. "Orvie!" exploded Minerva. | "After all the rest of us have done!" "After what he said in the first place!" Their indignation melted suddenly into weak laughter. Presently, Minerva said, "It's funny none of us noticed it. And, in a way, it will be the best thing for her. Best thing for Orvie, too. You know that it's the first time in all his life he's ever put himself out for anyone." When the heat of the following day had cooled into dusk, Alta and Minerva rested on their adjacent front porches. From Minerva's basement came the sound of hammering. Herb was building her fruit shelves. Will Bowman could be seen nailing shingles onto Alta's back porch. He had been at it ever since supper. And Mrs. Simpkins had phoned that her kitchen cabinets were being painted; goodness knows, they needed it. 'The two women rocked in companionable silence. Presently, Orvie and Rosalee drove slowly by in his car. 'The two little boys waved from the back seat. LESSON