[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Joseph F. Smith]
Dispel the gloom that threatens to enclose, Send from empyreal heights Thy peace sublime. Christmas A Means Toward Greater Spirituality in the Home By Joseph F. Smith (A restume of an address given in the October Primary Conference) a month away?" "Don't talk about it. I just dread its coming."
That has a familiar sound, hasn't it?
Christmas is almost upon us, calling as usual for expenditures which family incomes will not warrant.
Holiday happiness in thousands of homes will be abruptly terminated on January second when the mailman presents a formidable sheaf of bills demanding that "the fiddler be paid." In thousands of homes Christmas spending, begun in December, will continue long into the summer— casting a winter blight over the entire year and bringing an ever increasing dread of succeeding Christmases. Now spending may be very pleasant when and if there is plenty to spend. But spending requires income.
Emergency spending requires surplus.
Surplus means spending strength. Men and institutions are financially strong in the degree that they have large supplies of money (or lands or goods which may easily be converted into money) on hand.
That is what strength means—having something on hand. The financier's strength is measured in terms of money on hand or immediately available. The athlete's strength is measured in terms of nervous and muscular power on hand. The teacher's strength is measured in terms of knowledge on hand.
Even the locomotive's strength is measured in D: you realize Christmas is but terms of pounds of steam pressure on hand.
Without a store of something, strength is an impossibility. VERY man seeks to become strong in the direction of his particular interests. He sets forth to build a store of whatever is requisite for the strength he desires—physical prowess, money, learning, and so on.
What is true of men is true of nations. Great Britain, seeking to maintain maritime strength has built up a navy second to none. The larger countries of continental Europe (each suspicious of its neighbors) have given themselves military strength by building great armies. The United States has made itself a great financial power by developing resources and amassing wealth. Ancient Greece made itself the light of its world by developing artists and philosophers.
Each nation's strength, therefore, lies in whatever stock or store it has deliberately built up.
Since strength lies in wealth of some kind, if it hopes to endure, each nation must ask itself, in what sort of wealth does the greatest strength lie —wealth of money, wealth of things, wealth of knowledge. Of course there is but one answer—wealth of men: "tall men, sun-crowned." <A nation's ultimate strength and glory must be measured by its manhood.
Wealth of manhood means national strength; poverty of manhood means national weakness. The wise nation therefore sets about developing a great store of manhood. CHRISTMAS Now, the nation as such is too great a unit to superintend the nurture of each of its individual creatures. It can lay down principles, it can pass laws, but it must depend on much smaller units to take care of the detailed upbringing of its individual men. The most ideal unit for this individual nurture is the family; the most effective institution, the home. The nation says to the home, "Give me strong men."
Hence national strength is a family responsibility. S the nation asked what national wealth makes for the greatest national strength, the family must ask what personal wealth makes for the strongest man. A wise method for arriving at an answer to that question is to review the world's strong men and then learn, if possible, where their strength lay. I say lay, because it is difficult to measure the strength of living persons. You see, strength, after all is power, influence. The strongest man is he who exerts an influence on the greatest number over the longest period.
Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Napoleon Bonaparte were strong men—all of them great military leaders and highly influential.
Each of these men controlled the destinies of thousands of his contemporaries and each altered the political face of the world, but of the three, Caesar was strongest. Why?
Because his influence has been felt for a longer period by a greater number of persons.
Caesar plays a greater part today in your life and mine, than does either Alexander or Napoleon.
Have you ever stopped to think that the calendar we use daily is largely Julius Caesar's? And that Caesar's pen is still wielding influence in thousands of lives while his sword 735 is as impotent as the rust which destroyed it? You see Caesar had a greater store of interesting and compelling ideas than the others.
Therein lay his real strength. HEN ideas are generative, when they inspire beneficial activity they become ideals.
Hence ideals are the motive force behind all progress. Find, therefore, the man with the greatest stock of ideals and you will at once find the strongest of men.
Such inquiry inevitably leads us not to the great military chieftains, the Alexanders and the Napoleons; not to the great possessors of goods, the Croesuses and Rockefellers, but to the great idealists— the Aristotles, Confuciuses, Buddhas, and greatest of all—Jesus of Nazareth. Stable-born, without money, without lands, without political or military following, He yet became the world's strongest man. He is most alive today because He was richest in ideals. His store of "things of the spirit" was fullest. The family then, if it is fully to meet its responsibility, must build men who in turn can and will build for themselves rich stores in spiritual achievement.
