[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Work and Business O make your Christmas table more festive and gay decorate it with small glittering Christmas trees.
Wreaths and colorful cellophane stockings will add much to the attractiveness of the home. On page 127 of Handicraft for Every Woman you will find instructions in detail for making these articles.
Children love to help prepare decorations for the Christmas tree. Page 157 of the same book will tell you how to have them make lovely ornaments out of articles found in every household. If your funds for gifts are limited how about a hand decorated cake cover, or a set of canisters. On page 150 you will see how these can be made at very little expense and time.
Look through the book and you will find many fine suggestions for inexpensive gifts. Consumer's Problems INTEREST in standards for textiles and clothing is steadily growing. To convince manufacturers of the need and desire for such standards is the responsibility of the consumer. "To be in style' may be the public's first requisite in buying textiles, but besides style, the homemaker wants to know how to get it in an article which will not cost too much, will not require too much care, will be suited for its purpose, and will look well for a reasonable period of time. New styles are attained through changes in weave, finish, color, etc., but fancy weaves are apt to contribute beauty rather than strength. The latter depends on the length of the fibre used, the longer the fibre the stronger the fabric. If buyers remember that cotton, flax, rayon, etc., are of vegetable origin and that wool, silk, camels' hair come from the animal, choosing articles made from these will be easier.
Woolen fabrics are too frequently woven with cotton and a poor quality of reworked wool.
There are two kinds of wool fibres, woolen and worsted. The woolen are soft, elastic, and loosely twisted, the worsted material is harsh, shiny, and the yarns are tightly woven.
Various articles are made of wool; the most common are clothing, rugs and blankets. The wool content cannot be judged by the shopper. In the case of blankets the rules for labeling formulated by producers are not always followed. No finished blanket containing less than 5% should use the word "wool" in any form.
Only those made of 98% wool may be sold as "all wool." If sold as ''wool" blankets they must contain 25%-98% wool and label should so state.
Squeeze a portion of the blanket tightly in the hand, if made of live new wool it will be soft and springy.
Deep long-fibred nap is strong enough to support 780 whole blanket, test by holding with one thread.
Pull the blanket in opposite directions at same time, push finger against stretched surface; it should be strong, firm and resist pressure.
Other qualities are warmth, resistance to wear, washing durability and size.
Questions for Discussion 1.
State consumer's responsibility for standards in buying, and for textile and clothing legislation. 2.
Give simple home tests that may be used to judge kinds and quality of fabrics. 3.
Discuss characteristics of wool and tell difference between "shoddy" and "virgin" wool. 
 . State some of the things to look for in buying blankets and compare ones on market today with those of our grandmothers'. 5. Define terms fully-shrunk, preshrunk, fast color, washable, 100% wool. 6. What size blankets are most economical to buy? References Same as in previous lessons. Articles on textile buying in Relief Society Magazines. Better Buymanship Series, Household Finance Corp., Research dept., 919
North Michigan Ave., Chicago, Tl.