[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Where Musser]
Where Love Is By Ruth Musser T was a perfect Hawaiian after] noon. The long white-capped waves, rolling softly and steadily up the beach, chased the scurrying sand crabs into their holes, and breaking with a gentle swish, retreated, leaving thé sand white and glistening. The customary morning shower had left the air cool and balmy. The dazzling blue sky was flecked with tiny, fluffy clouds, whose edges seemed tinged with gold from the mere radiance of the sky itself. A fresh salt breeze blew continually from over the water, bringing with it half-veiled hints of undiscovered treasure islands, rare and costly spices, and mysterious perfumes from the Orient. But in spite of her surroundings Lucile Thornton was not happy.
Reclining in the shade of an immense Chinese parasol, she watched fouryear-old Ted paddle in and out of the water, and Jean, two and a half years his junior, toddle unsteadily over the dry sand, picking up bits of coral, shell, and colored rock. And all the while, as she cautioned Teddy about getting too close to the water and extracted bits of shell from the baby's mouth, she wished herself miles away. For it was the day before Christmas; and she would give all this color and warmth and peace about her for one sight of a bleak, snow-covered valley and for the sting of an icy wind. The sewing she had brought with her had fallen from her lap forgotten, as she gazed abstractedly away over the restless ocean and thought of the changes that had taken place during the past twelve months. A year ago, after a very discouraging session with the account book, she and Ed had been obliged to acknowledge they were losing ground daily; if things went on much longer in the same way, they would be so far in debt that nothing short of a special dispensation of Providence could save them—and this in spite of the fact that they had pinched and scraped to make ends meet ever since their marriage. Ig had been the old story. Ed, working his way through high school, had gone on armission before he had completed his course.
That mission turned out to be an exceptionally long one. He returned five years later anxious to marry the girl who had waited for him so long. But although filled with great hopes and ambitions, he was _ penniless. Moreover, he was untrained at a time when the country was overrun with unemployed. But he was sincere in his desire for work and before long found an opening. He entered a down-town department store as a shoe clerk—at a very modest salary.
Lucile would not consider postponing their marriage until he had a higher salary, and assured him it would be great fun to start housekeeping in pioneer style.
Lucile had been raised in the midst of plenty. She was nearly through college, belonged to an exclusive sorority as well as to various clubs, and was a great favorite among her friends. Ed, remembering these things, was amazed at his good fortune in winning her and felt it unfair to ask such a wonderful girl to embark with him upon the sea of matrimony in such a frail craft as he could provide. But as she was as deeply in love as he, their 740 engagement was announced, in spite of dire warnings from her friends and relatives.
When school was out and Ed had saved enough to make a down payment on a tiny bungalow, they were married. BUt making both ends meet was a harder job than either had anticipated. | When it came right down to facing the monthly installments on house and furniture, and meeting the light, gas, and telephone bills in addition to coal and groceries, what had in theory promised to be so easy proved to be almost impossible in practice. At first they joked freely about keeping the wolf from the door, and considered it great fun to sit down together of an evening with pencil and paper and go over the little budget again and again, trying to squeeze out a penny here and there for extras. But there was never any margin at the end of the month, and sometimes there was a deficit.
Gradually these conferences became more serious; but, always hopeful, they would invariably end with glorious plans for the future when he got a raise and promotion. The first substantial raise came just in time to meet taxes. For a while they were able to squeeze ends together; but then Edward Junior arrived on the scene, and after that the books wouldn't balance at all. So, goaded on by the new stimulus, Ed studied at nights and soon obtained a job in the bookkeeping department, which, though only slightly better in salary, was more promising. He borrowed money for the taxes that fall. OR the next two years they skimped along, barely keeping up with ordinary expenses. But soon unexpected calls arose, culminating in the arrival of Jean. Ed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE laughingly called her his second little "liability" and unfeignedly worshiped her. But the wrinkles in his forehead were not so easily smoothed out now and he always looked tired. The night work he had been doing for some months past was beginning to tell on his eyes, and he was considering the efficacy and also the expense of glasses. Lucile, worrying over him and the babies and the grocery bill, admitted to herself that she was losing her pep and couldn't stand the strain much longer.
Things were approaching a climax.
Then came the final budget conference in which Ed, worried and serious, showed her the results of their efforts: he had had to borrow more money to meet taxes and pressing bills, they were far behind in payments on the house, doctor's bills were pending, and no raise was in sight.
Lucile smiled down at the baby she was nursing, but her smile was a little weary as she said, "It isn't just the expenses, Ed. It's this everlasting struggle to keep up with everybody—with the neighbors, and my sisters and friends. If we stop for a minute to relax, we're hopelessly behind. But I've come to a point where I've got to stop long enough to get my breath no matter what happens, and J know you feel the same." Her husband patted her shoulder understandingly but said nothing.
Later that evening when the babies were both asleep and the dishes finally cleared up, he told her of an unquenchable desire, which grew in intensity as their condition became more desperate—to return to Hawali, the land of exquisite beauty and of perpetual sunshine; the land of material well-being and of spiritual content.
Although the subject had been a favorite of his since he WHERE returned from his mission, never before had he spoken with such depth of feeling. He confessed that through a friend of his, now on the islands, he had heard of a position as assistant overseer on one of the large sugar plantations in Oahu, that he had made inquiries and, in a moment of recklessness, had applied. Lucile's immediate reaction was one of delight and she plied him with questions about his chances of getting the appointment and all about living conditions there. She listened eagerly as he told of the little white cottage, already furnished, half-hidden among oleander trees and roses, which bloomed the year round; of the super-abundance of fruit and of the fresh milk, cream and butter supplied at very little cost from the plantation; of the unbelievable salary of two hundred dollars a month. N the days that followed doubts and misgivings assailed her. The thought of being separated from home and family and friends by nearly three thousand miles of land and water was terrifying. She couldn't get along without her mother and sisters and Ed's folks. She could scarcely believe her senses when Ed came home one evening early in January, waving a long envelope and telling her to begin packing immediately.
From then on events carried her along in their wake, acquiescent but bewildered. As in a trance she mended, sewed, packed, and attended innumerable farewell entertainments. She was too busy for vain regrets or forebodings.
Before anyone could realize it, they were off. On the boat her mind was filled to the exclusion of all else with the novelty of ocean travel, the care of the children, and a great delight in seeing Ed so wonderfully recovered in
LOVE IS 741 spirits.
After a brief stay in vivid, laughing, colorful Honolulu, an unforgettable drive along the magnificent Nuuanu boulevard, over the Pali, and along the coast to Hauula —they were in their new home. The business of getting settled took up all her thoughts for a time, and when she did again consider the future, the prospects were very bright, for she saw how the debts could easily be paid in a year; and then, after saving for a few years, they could go home financially independent. But whenever she talked it over with Ed, he would laugh and Say teasingly, "Why ever go home? Now that I've got you here, wild horses couldn't drag me back."
This would disquiet her for a while; but when she saw how perfectly happy he was and how well and energetic the outdoor work was making him, how sturdy and brown Teddy grew by living always in the open air, how Jean's pale little face was filling out and becoming actually rosy, and when she herself felt a returning strength she had not experienced since Teddy was born, then she agreed with Ed and declared it a perfect place to live—"for a few years." A?
Time went on life became a: little monotonous. It was so quiet it began to be oppressive. The only amusements offered were a weekly picture show and an occasional concert by local talent, both in Laie five miles away.
Otherwise their diversions consisted of driving in the evenings, infrequent trips to Honolulu, and sea bathing when a party could be gathered together.
They had little company, as there were no other white people within walking distance. At Laie were the missionaries, also the plantation manager and his family, with whom 742 frequent calls were interchanged. And there were a few friends in Honolulu, whose occasional visits were rare treats. But there was no one with whom she could chum and exchange confidences; and, what worried her more, no playmates of their own kind for her children. The ocean was her salvation.
When things grew too discouraging, the greatest solace she knew was to take the babies down to the beach, and while they played in the sand to sit and listen to the deep, rhythmic roar of the breakers until her melancholy was forgotten. But today it did not soothe her.
Instead it added to her discontent. She admitted to herself that the novelty of a land of perpetual sunshine and flowers liad worn off. The obvious perfection of her surroundings was cloying to the senses. She was tired of the soft, clear atmosphere in which things never got sooty or smoky; tired of the daily shower; tired of the riot of bloom on all sides; and she would give all the palm trees on the island for a glimpse of one tall, straight poplar against a pale gray sky. As she looked at her children she rebelled that there was no one near to help her enjoy them, to share with her Teddy's bright sayings, the gleam of his mischievous brown eyes, or Jean's bewitching, dimpled smiles. Of course there was Ed, but she wanted her mother and sisters to see and exclaim over the perfection of her children. Ed had of late seemed less anxious to set a definite date for their return. "Isn't this home, honey?" he would ask laughingly, and change the subject. She remembered that the debts were not clearing up as fast as they had expected and shivered at the implication. She felt she could stick it out cheerfully if there were only the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE assurance that it would not be forever. The lengthening shadows warned her that it was time to return. Ed had gone to town earlier in the day to get the trimmings for the tree. She realized she had wasted the entire afternoon.
