[Vol22 | December 1935 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in May) LESSON vir Civic OBLIGATIONS FOR CHILp WELFARE Text: omes remained unbroken, and; f these duties of Properly executed, an ideal citizenry training within the home, it js the duty of the Nation to care for and This is to be accomplished by developing the following basic concepts, namely: 1. To understand that Promoting Civic Sociology, Ed ward A. Ross, Chapter 8 To Participate jn activities which foster child welfare.
Seneration ago, an educational leader of his time, Horace Mann, wrote: "Tf any given percentage of all children can be rescued from vice citizens, declines though reliable Statistics showing the delinquency throughout the country are not availRAW, LESSON DEPARTMENT able, approximate estimates furnish a good index to our social difficulties. "Tf juvenile delinquency is the same for the country as a whole as it is for the area reporting, then approximately 200,000 delinquents were dealt with in 1928." (Crime Prevention Through Education, N. E. A. Bulletin, Sept., 1932.) These delinquencies include such offenses as theft, school truancy, auto theft, malicious mischief, liquor violation, traffic violation, sex offenses, holdup, assault and battery, etc.
Each case, if not properly adjusted to social conditions, is apt to lead to adult criminality, and criminality has reached in all countries, such proportions as to be a problem of major importance.
Childish waywardness, youthful shortcomings, thwarted ambitions and lack of satisfying wholesome activities, if allowed to continue unchecked, lead to unsocial acts in mature life.
Wholesome adult life is an outgrowth of sane youthful foundations. A study of delinquency shows that it is largely the result of undesirable home conditions.
Since broken homes and poor homes exist to such a great extent, it is the duty of the State to provide for, on scientific lines, the lack of desirable home conditions.
Wholesome life should be available to all children. It is the duty of the more fortunate citizens to provide for the less fortunate. A comparison of the cost of criminality and education reveals the need of greater effort towards the prevention of crime, and the advantage to be gained through greater juvenile care. "It is interesting to note that it costs on the average, about $400.00 a year to maintain a delinquent in a public institution (such as an Industrial School where an attempt is made to rehabilitate the individual), 787 $300.00 for an adult prisoner, and somewhat less than $100.00 spent annually on each public school pupil. In a sense, then, if the $100.00 spent annually on each public school pupil does not produce a good citizen, the State must pay later three to four times that amount for penal or correctional treatment. For every $2.00 spent on elementary and secondary school pupils, we spend $1.50 to control the criminal." The per capita outlay of society on its criminals far exceeds the per capita expenditure for the education of its children. (Research Bulletin of the N. E. A., Sept.,. 1932, p. 152.) Taking into consideration the total cost of criminality with its damage, we pay more for criminal care and protection than for education. As tax payers, buying our own social salvation, we 'cannot afford to 'pay more for crime and the criminal than for the education and social well being of children in order to prevent crime.
Schools and institutions are only as good as the citizens demand. If, then, we are content to stand by and criticise existing conditions throughout the world, and complain of the unsocial conduct of many people, and of the high cost of our own social protections, without doing something constructive to alleviate these conditions, we are ourselves guilty of social delinquency. The feeling on the part of the parents is all to prevalent that if the home is maintained wherein ideals of righteousness are taught for the good of one's immediate family, social and religious obligations are complete. But the idea must be enlarged to include the well being of the tommunity and the nation.
Everyone should bear in mind the welfare of the orphan, those who seek sensual amusement and gam788 bling halls, the back alley gang, and those who derive unwholesome satisfaction from distorted appetites.
They are all of immediate individual concern.
Special attention should be given to the way, pointed out in the text, pages 105 to 109, in which boys and girls are exploited by unscrupulous merchants seeking profit. The city street or the village corner have bred evil faster than home or school could 'build righteousness. The life of the community as a whole is reflected in its juvenile life; the community must accept the responsibility for the organization of agencies to further its own upbuilding. If then the welfare of the community's children is the responsibility of each adult, into what avenues should these responsibilities be directed? First, they should strengthen those agencies now working for child welfare, and second, they should establish where necessary, new social agencies. In the first classification attention may be called to all the auxiliary organizations of the L. D. S. Church. As a rule, it is not the boy or girl who is a regular atendant of Primary, Scout meetings, Sunday School, or Mutual Improvement meetings that becomes a delinquent, but the one who loses interest in such gatherings. If officers of such organizations could count on the active support of all church members, ward houses would most probably be filled regularly to overflowing.
Many a scout organization languishes in semi-existence because of needed support from adults who are both financially and intellectually capable of giving that support.
Indifference is the cause of many of our difficulties. Secondly, our social responsibility requires that we build where necessary, additional social agencies fo: the common good.
This would inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE clude such activities as providing more and better playgrounds, providing wholesome amusement, enforcing juvenile labor laws, elimination of undesirable working and housing conditions, promoting hobbies, and improving educational opportunities.
Each community could multiply the list in its own interest. The full social responsibility of an individual is never complete until consistent effort has been put forth to realize the standard set up by the White House Conference on Child Health and Protection; namely, "For every child a community which recognizes and plans for his needs, protects him against physical dangers, moral hazards, and diseases; provides him with safe and wholesome places for play and recreation, and makes provision for his cultural and social needs." Activities Make a list of the agencies in your community working for the welfare of the community's children.
Which of the agencies listed are handicapped because of lack of sufficient public interest and lack of financial help to execute welfare programs, and how many of the organizations mentioned are being encouraged and helped by some members of the Relief Society Class?
What is actually being done to keep the children of the community from becoming delinquent? In order to achieve the ideals for child welfare set forth by the White House Conference, what still remains to be accomplished? On a map of your community mark the location of welfare agencies for children, such as libraries, playgrounds, athletic grounds, etc.
Does it show any area that is inadequately served? Is there any relationship between such areas and sections of most frequent delinquency? Health Lessons 1935-1936 LESSON VIII STERILIZATION OF Home UTENSILS IT is within the life of many people the discoveries ful. The great bulk of them serve certain smal] Proportion of bacteria are harmfy] to the human body, and produce disease when they gain entrance to our body.
These may be conveyed from Person to person by means of common drinking utensils, bath tubs, or any other utensil used by more than one person, ese bacteria can be killed in a number of different Ways. Ing things which wil] be related later. F remnants of baby's feeding are allowed to remain in the nursing bottle, they are soon swarming with bacteria, and will cause a stomach and bowel upset for the child if the next feeding js put in the bottle without Sterilization. In the days of our grandparents and even of our older parents hundreds of babies were infected by allowing the feeding bottle to retain remnants of the previous feeding, and after abundant bacteria have ?TOwn in it, to add the milk mixture of the next feeding to it and feed it to the baby.
After each feeding, the nursing bottle should be thoroughly cleansed, then it should be placed in cold water minutes. It should then be placed in a cold place If there is a refrigerator in the house it will be a splendid place to keep baby's milk in, and the empty bottle after it has been cleansed and sterilized 1 To simply dip a bottle or Spoon or other utensil in boiling water is not enough to sterilAt least five minutes at the boiling temperature will be necessary. The one who handles feeding bottles, rubber nipples, spoons, etc., used in feeding the baby should of course have the hands thoroughly cleansed with soap and water before touching them, Things properly sterilized could easily be contaminated again by dirty hands. The first great rule for the preventing of germ disease, is to keep germs from Spreading from the sick 790 person. Few people develop infectious diseases, unless directly or indirectly they Set the infection from somebody else with that same ailment. If there is one in the family with any infectious disease, such as diphis well to keep the same utensils in The infected Person is giving off the germs in all excretions, and these should be disinfected by mixing with them some antiseptic like lysol, or carbolic acid, or sulphate of copsick person and sheets etc., should be put out in the sunshine. The 
  with a broom moistened in the lysol solution. The Board of Health may before being occupied by other members of the family. The attendant should wash the hands frequently with soap In the household routine at any and other receptacles for food should be sterilized The metal tops of fruit bottles should especially ? taken out of boiling water, and kept clean until they are applied by clean hands. The fruit itself should be gradually brought to the boil before the top is applied, A thorough conception of the role of bacteria in the spread of disease, and intelligent application of the methods of sterilization would prevent much disease and suffering and expense. Questions What are bacteria? Here do they abound? Hat do you mean by sterilization? What is the simplest and easiest and least expensive method of sterilization? What drugs are good antiseptics? What would you do with the room after the patient is convalescent? Why should we handle sterile things only with clean sterile hands? How would you proceed to sterilize fruit bottles and other food receptacles?