[Vol52 | May 1965 | Page 348 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind a globe of the Earth]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman figure standing behind a globe of the Earth]

Sylvia Porter, United States' shrewd giver of financial information and advice in her syndicated column "Your Money's Worth," has been touring abroad. She feels that the women of Finland are noteworthy in their level of literacy and education. Women account for 93 per cent of all Finnish pharmacists; 76 per cent of dentists; 65 per cent of all elementary and 56 per cent of all high school teachers; 30 per cent of all architects; 23 per cent of journalists; 25 per cent of all economists; 13.5 per cent representation in Parliament; 32 per cent representation in Helsinki's municipal council. Women represent 53 per cent of Finland's working force.

Jill Kinmont, former champion slalom skier, who, when eighteen, fell while skiing on the slopes of Alta, Utah, and crushed a neck vertebra that left her unable to move, control, or feel anything below her shoulders, began to think hard about "what you can do with what you have." She has finished college and is now an extraordinarily talented school teacher, in a wheel chair. Cheerful, sympathetic, with an unfailing sense of humor, she captures her students' interest, sympathy, and good will immediately. Her parents and brothers are most cooperative and helpful. Jill's courage is magnificent.

Elizabeth Longford has received much commendation for her scholarly and entertaining biography of Queen Victoria: Born to Suceed (Harper and Row Publishers). A reviewer most generous in her praise of this biography is Aileen Ward, author of John Keats: The Making of a Poet, for which she received the 1964 National Book Award.

Charming Alicia Markova, created Dame Alicia Markova by Queen Elizabeth II, is now the choreographer for the Metropolitan Opera, with thirty-six ballet dancers in her charge, under contract twelve months a year. Born in London, she made her debut on the London stage at the age of ten and was hailed "a miniature Pavlova." She is considered the greatest "Giselle" in ballet history. She has recently been on her second tour of the United States, lecturing on ballet. She feels that the grants given by the Ford Foundation to choreographers and dancers will greatly increase the art of ballet in America.

Josephine Johnson has selected her best short stories ranging "from comic fantasy through vivid realism to dark, mysterious tragedy—and creating always a unique and powerful enchantment" to quote the New York Times Book Review. Miss Johnson won the Pulitzer Prize for her novel, Now in November, and much critical acclaim for her latest novel The Dark Traveler.

Helen Savitsky, a research geneticist employed by the United States Department of Agriculture, with a specific assignment to the sugar beet industry, has cooperated with her husband, Dr. V. F. Savitsky, in developing monogerm beet seed. This type of seed has proved to be of inestimable value over the old multigerm type which produced several plants very close together, and thus required difficult and expensive thinning procedures. Through this useful and significant research and her many other contributions to scientific beet growing, Helen Savitsky has achieved the reputation of being "unsurpassed in her cytological work on the sugar beet."

348
