[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: LETTER FROM NAUVOO. | Author: E. J. S]

LETTER FROM NAUVOO.
Mrs E. B. Wells.
	MY DEAR SISTER:—Here we are in this,
once delightful spot once so dear to the
Saints, our party consisting of Elder An-
drew Kimball, wife and children, Edward
Stevenson and wife, Sister Lyon and six
young Elders, left our mountain home
Wednesday Sept. 4th, 9 a. m. on the U. P.,
arrived in Denver on the 5th at 7 a. m.
Spent the day taking in some of the sights,
the rest of the company meeting us there.
Left Denver 8-p. m., arriving in St. John
Kansas, Saturday 12th, 10 a. m., having
had a very enjoyable trip with the excep-
tion of its being so excessively warm At

[Column 2]
the station we were met by nearly all of the
Elders in the Indian Mission, to say the
least we had a very pleasant and profitable
visit in St John; having spent five days
there, welcomed on every hand not only by
the Saints, but also by all not of our faith,
with whom we came in contact. There
are some most excellent people in that part
of the vineyard and it seems to me there is
a great work to be done; there are also
laboring among them, some of the most
noble of Zion’s sons, faithful and true as
usual. The new meeting house which was
dedicated on Sabbath afternoon, Sept. 8th,
is a monument of their usefulness, not only
spiritually but also physically, to these
young Elders who laid off their coats and
put on over-alls and erected it, will the
blessings be ascribed! We had a most ex-
cellent conference which has been written
up to several of the papers also lectures
and concerts in the evening, (occupying all
the time) in which the talent of our boys
as well as some of our sisters were made
manifest; being given on such short notice
there was no time for preparation, two of
our Elders being ill with chills and fever
(which is very prevalent in these parts) and
another one being taken ill was the only
drawback to our pleasure; but these were
all made better by the blessings of the
Lord, for which we felt to praise His holy
name. Wednesday evening we called on
Mr. Pinkerton the leader of one of the
off-shoots of the true Church (from him have
also dissented several others,) we had a
pleasant chat but while conversing with
him I could not help but draw the compari-
son between our own revered President W.
Woodruff and him, also Presidents Young
and Taylor. Poor old man there he is left
with but a few, yet he feels that he is right.
	Thursday 12th, 6 a. m. we took an
affectionate farewell of our friends in St.
John and proceeded on to Kansas City,
where we sojourned for a time, then took
train for Independence twelve miles, where
we arrived 6-30 p. m.; being very weary
we felt thankful for a night's rest, but alas!
the weather was so oppressive that the rest
was not what we desired. Next day 13th,
three of our Elders having met us we all
visited the Temple Block there we remained
for some time; holding converse, also in-
voking Divine protection to continue with
it, having spent a very happy time, we
visited other places of interest then went on
to Kansas City, visited some time with our
boys, then bade them God speed invoking
divine blessings to rest upon them in con-
nection with all the rest, these having been
assigned to labor in the Indian Territory.
We again returned to Independence, next
morning, 14th, we visited Mr. Hill, the
President of the Hedrickite Church, had
a very pleasant conversation, took leave
then repaired to the magnificent Court-
house visited there, ascended to the top,
whence we took a grand view of the sur-
rounding country, which certainly is very
beautiful we again took train for Kansas
City where we took train for Cameron ar-
riving there at 9 a. m., after a refreshing
night’s rest, next day, 15th, we took con-

[Column 3]
veyance for Far West where we spent, a
most interesting time though very seriously
reflecting upon scenes of the past, we also
called on Mr. Whitmer, a nephew of David
Whitmer whose uncle was one of the three
witnesses, to the Book of Mormon, who
received us very kindly, himself and wife,
showing us their lovely home and surround-
ings; our visit over we returned to Camer-
on, where we took train for Galletin, arriv-
ing there 9 p. m., next day 16th, we again
took conveyance, visit Mill Port, then pro-
ceed on to Adam-ondi-ahman. Dear sis-
ters could any one ever understand the feel-
ings that we experienced while visiting
these waste places of Zion; it is easier
imagined than expressed, at this place we
spent several hours meditating and pray-
ing, etc. Returning next morning, 17th,
6 a. m. we again take train for Cameron,
arriving 7-30 a. m. and at 8-30 a. m. we
take a very reluctant leave of our dear
friends; our party having dwindled away
until there were left but two of us; how-
ever we proceeded on our journey, taking
train 9-30 for Brekenridge, arriving there
11 a.m. again taking conveyance for
Haun’s Mill, but alas! every souvenir of
the sacred spot is almost extinct; a place
made sacred because of seventeen precious
lives, having been sacrificed there; then the
remains buried in a well. O, the anguish
of my soul while walking over that sacred
spot remembering the widows and father-
less, they have done all in their power to
obliterate every recognition of the place;
Mr. Stevenson having visited it seven
years ago, could tell by measurement; they
have ploughed the ground and planted corn
which stands from 15 to 20 feet high, so
that a stranger could not possibly tell where
the Black Smith Shop once stood; we, how-
ever, by seeking carefully, found cinders
mixed in with the soil, where the chimney
had been; the people in that neighborhood
do not like to speak on that subject, several
expressed themselves as its being a most
terrible affair and should rather never again
hear it mentioned; we returned to Breken-
ridge where we took evening train for
Montrose via Quincy, arriving. 6-30 a. m.
and reaching Montrose 10-45 a. m., 18th.
However long before arriving I discovered
(from the car windows) that once beautiful
city of Nauvoo, then so dear to the Saints;
on arriving we looked around Montrose;
there stood the steamboat “City of Nauvoo”
ready to ferry us over the Mississippi River
which of itself was quite an item to me.
	After landing we took conveyance, rode
around for some time looking at the city;
well, dear reader, accompany me for the
rest of the day if you can, more especially
in the afternoon while walking about;
many times when reading or hearing about
Nauvoo, have I wished in my heart that I
could visit that sacred spot of Earth, but
never for one moment did I indulge the
hope of really seeing it, but here I am
verily walking those very identical streets
that our beloved Prophet and Patriarch
while in life walked so many, many times;
the emotions of my soul I never could
describe, was it a reality or was it a dream?


[Column 1]
Then on, being shown the spot in the river,
where Joseph Smith baptized for the dead,
with my associations in the house of the
Lord, the thoughts that crowded themselves
in my mind, were very many; I really
imagined that I could see him. We then
visited the cottage where the Prophet first
lived then the Mansion where the remains
were brought and visited by so many sor-
rowing Saints; read in the life of P. P.
Pratt page 370—71, for description of
feelings, but the grand sight for dwellings
on the river’s edge, were my admiration;
what grand ideas of the beautiful our
Prophet must have possessed; on visiting
the mansion I really discovered many
changes by what had been told me; on in-
quiry I found I was not mistaken, part
has been torn down, the Nauvoo house has
been built up some what; but of course
never completed, we found many kind
friends who were more than willing to
show and explain things to us; after wan-
dering about from place to place, we then
repaired to the Catholic Church, a very
creditable edifice, with a spire 150 feet high
which we ascended, having obtained per-
mission from the Priest, a very genial gen-
tleman, whom Mr. Stevenson had met on a
previous visit. The view from the spire is
simply grand, the church is built on the
corner across the street south of the block
where on the Temple stood; the Priest
occupies Apostle P. P. Pratt’s house, which
seems in very good condition; of the Tem-
ple there is not one stone left upon another,
there are stores built upon the block, also
vacant places sown in grass, there is
one large store built of the beautiful rock,
the rest, I was informed on inquiring, was
carried away piece by piece until it all dis-
appeared.
	I inquired the population and was in-
formed it numbered 1,300; imagine my
surprise, though I knew by appearances it
was not numerous, what I said “from 25 to
30,000 dwindled to 1,300, how do you ac-
count for this?’’ “Well,’’ the answer came,
“people cannot make a living, no rail-road,
no street cars, no enterprise,” but plenty of
vineyard and wine making,surely the bless-
ing of the Lord has not rested upon this
city since the expulsion of the Saints.
	Being fatigued beyond satisfaction we re-
paired to the Hotel, “The Oriental,” com-
fortable quarters, with a most kind, genial
landlady. Thursday morning 18th, after
a most comfortable night’s rest, feeling
quite refreshed, we prepared to take leave,
having obtained a nice piece of the Temple
rock from our kind friend and hostess and
with a kindly parting we then take a short
ride through the city, go to the upper land-
ing, take passage on the steamer, Ottum-
way Bell, had a very pleasant passage to
Keokuk arriving before noon; after din-
ner we took in as much of the city as pos-
sible; next morning we again took steamer
for Quincy, Ills. We again took in all we
could of that city, having visited the
Soldier’s Home which certainly is a won-
derful establishment; we were escorted
through, then taken to the Club House
where they prepare ten bushels of potatoes
at once, we saw them already peeled, every
thing else in proportion; an immense larder
well filled, we take the evening train for
Chicago, arriving next morning; Saturday
21st, we again took in sights in that grand
city, all day, retiring to our apartments at
night, next morning, Sunday 22nd, taking
leave 6 a. m. we proceed on to Elgin, ar-

[Column 2]
riving about 10 a. m., we proceeded to see our
most interesting subject, David Smith.
After considerable many obstructions being
removed, we come in his presence, after the
usual salutations and a little embarrass-
ment on his part, we had a very pleasant
conversation of about one hour; after which
by permission, he escorted us to his flower
beds which he assists in cultivating, spoke
very intelligently on the subject, wishing
to know if we should like some flowers of
his cultivating, which we very readily ac-
cepted and prized them very highly, hav-
ing brought them home; we had really a very
interesting time with him which I prize
beyond expression, having known him dur-
ing his sojourn in our city, I have always
entertained a very kindly feeling for him,
he is so refined in his manners and his
language is faultless,a perfect gentleman in
all his ways, may the Lord have mercy on
him and preserve him from all evil, we
took a very kindly leave of him.
	Being unable to return until late in the
evening we attended a Salvation Army
meeting, had an excellent time, then by
invitation took supper with a very spiritual
minded family, had a most interesting time
and as usual tried to sow all the good seed
we could; after an affectionate leave taking
and many wishes that we should stay over
night we returned to our apartment quite
late; next day, 23rd, we again took in what
we could of that great city among the rest,
having visited the Masonic Temple, that
wonderful structure, 21 stories high, the
view from the top is something wonderful,
taking in the beautiful Lake Michigan and
the country around for miles, we took the
evening train for home, sweet home, arriv-
ing Thursday evening 7 p. m., nothing un-
usual happening, with the exception of a
six hours delay, a few miles east of Thom-
son Springs caused by a breaking in the
cinder pan of the locomotive, feeling truly
thankful for a safe arrival and finding all
well at home.
	E. J. S.


WOMANS EXPONENT


