[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: STATEHOOD. | Author: Unknown]

STATEHOOD.

	THE election for Statehood and state of-
ficers in Utah is drawing near, and the
people are growing correspondingly anxious
on the momentous questions that are to be
decided by vote within a short time. Cer-
tainly the coming election is to be the most
important one in the history of the Ter-
ritory; and it is not to be wondered at that
there is some considerable enthusiasm
among both men and women on the subject.
	The question of woman’s enfranchise-
ment is involved in the issue of the adop-
tion of the Constitution now very soon to
be voted upon, and it is only natural that
women who believe in equal suffrage should
be very greatly exercised as to the results
on their own account. It is more than
eight years since the women of Utah were
deprived of the franchise, which they had
enjoyed and exercised for seventeen years,
and which they appreciated as a blessing
and a privilege. The probability is that
they are soon to enter the new state full-
fledged citizens, politically equal in all re-
spects to men, and in view of this condi-
tion they have been, and are, preparing
themselves for the actual duties and
responsibilities of citizenship.
	The political meetings, primaries and
conventions, held in the interest of state-
hood, have all been educational in the
truest sense, and those who have attended
such places, and taken part in the proceed-
ings must necessarily realize what an ad-
vantage all this has been. It has been a
school of political science, and one can-
not help feeling that it will be productive of
good to those who have participated, if they
shall be wise and prudent, and careful in-
stead of becoming extremists. The wo-
men generally speaking who have been at-
tending political gatherings are not those
who have had opportunities to pursue the
studies of civil government, or political
economy in the school room or college, and
therefore the more need of this sort of
practical instruction.
	Because of the agitation of the equal suf-
frage matter in the Constitutional Conven-
tion many women attended that Convention
day after day, and heard the speeches and
listened to the proceedings, and became
somewhat familiar with the subjects pre-
sented and discussed there, and also in-
terested in these things to a certain extent;
some more than others, but all who had
thought earnestly of woman’s position be-
fore the law, must have been impressed

[Column 2]
with the ideas advanced there by the able
and eloquent speakers, who with so much
zeal and earnestness, championed the cause
of women, and endeavored to convince the
opponents of equal suffrage that it was only
just and right, that it should be embodied
in the Constitution itself instead of making
it a separate clause, or worse still, leaving it
to some future legislature in the new state.
All honor to those men who sought to ob-
tain justice for women in the new state of
Utah, and their names will be handed down
to posterity as benefactors of the race,
when woman’s true position shall make it
possible for equality in government to be
the rule and not the exception.
	But speaking advisedly it must be ap-
parent to every right minded person that
the agitation and interest in political mat-
ters which has grown out of the Conven-
tion because of the arguments pro and con
upon suffrage, has been the means of spread-
ing the knowledge of how governments
are formed and maintained, and an under-
standing of the laws which effect the well-
being of society in the city and county and
in the commonwealth.
	It cannot but be productive of good and
it is a hopeful outlook for any community
when women, the mothers and wives lay
hold of the grave questions of state, that
agitate the public mind and assist intel-
ligently to better the conditions of living
according to their best thought and high
sense of honor and honesty; when they
bring the tender conscience into the struggle
for justice and equality, and when through
careful investigation of the political situa-
tion they bring to bear that intuition and
remarkable foresight that characterizes in a
great degree most women, then men will
realize how beneficial is their help and won-
der how they could have been so long
neglectful of this new and potent element
in the management of the affairs of state.
	Every woman who loves Utah and
desires its prosperity should do her utmost
to urge men (who have the ballot) to vote
for statehood, and see to it as far as possible
that no vote shall be lost because of neglect
or indifference. Be as conscientious as
though the vote were your own and remem-
ber that one vote more or less might turn
the scale for or against.


[Column 1]
