[Vol6 | January 1919 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Heart of the Household]

Heart of the Household
======================

Heart of the Household. By Ruth Moench Bell. "There now, eat it!" Mrs. Badger exclaimed irritably, as she flung on to the table a queer, sodden mass. "What is it?" Zeph Badger inquired, as he poked it cautiously with his knife. "Bread," his wife retorted scornfully, "War-bread." "Bread!" Zeph Jr. looked alarmed. "Let's join the army, father," he implored dolefully. "Shrapnel couldn't be more deadly. Besides, we are not required to eat shrapnel. We are supposed to dodge it." "Coward," Marjory observed, fearlessly cutting into the loaf. "You'd look brave in a uniform. Why it's war-bread! Only it stood too long and the oven wasn't hot enough when it was put in. It should be mixed and put into loaves at once. It should be kept very warm so it will rise in one hour and then it should be put in a very hot oven. It was mixed too firm, too." "Too firm," Mrs. Badger exclaimed irritably, "you said the potato bread was mixed too loose." "Oh, it was mother mixed that potato bread I found in the chicken-coop!" Bobbie crowed tactlessly. "Yes, and wasted two whole sieves full of good white flour," Mrs. Badger gloomed. "Why not have Marjory mix the war-breads if they are teaching the girls at high school," Zeph suggested. "Marjory mix the war-breads!" The insult was too gross. Mrs. Badger drew herself up. Marjory mix the bread! Every bride in the town had come to her for the first start of yeast and final instructions in bread-making. And such puffy, white loaves and rolls they had made under her tuition. And now her own husband had suggested that their fourteen-year-old daughter should mix the bread! "These new war-breads are so different," Zeph added soothingly. "Well named," Bobbie sang out. "War-breads! They surely raise a war every time they are mentioned in this house." "Well, you needn't have found that potato bread and come lugging it into the house," Marjory reproached, eager to propitiate her mother and only making matters worse. "Oh, by the way," Zeph remarked. "The ladies want you to help in the gauze rooms two or three mornings a week." "Well, if that isn't the end of the limit," Mrs. Badger fumed. slipping into her small boy's vernacular. "What does ail them!" Zeph grinned behind his newspaper. He delighted in these odd expressions of his wife's, particularly her 'darn your picture of you' which Bobbie sometimes provoked. "I'm so tired every night I could die. And now to take three mornings a week for extra work! When will I get through!" "I don't know how these women manage it," Zeph puzzled. "Elinor Westfield walks down with Jim nearly every morning and home again with him at noon. And Jennie Grantly is just ahead of me about three afternoons a week. They trip off as jauntily as girls. Weren't they in our set?" "No, their set was a little older, just about two years older," Mrs. Badger answered wearily. "It's easy enough for Elinor. She has no young children. And the whole family take a hand after work. I saw Jim frying the steak while she was setting the table, one time when I passed. And another time Jim was washing the dishes while she wiped and the youngest boy ran the vacuum cleaner. But I really wonder how Jennie manages with all her family of young children." "I know," Marjory volunteered. "They all rise one hour earlier. Mildred gets something ready for lunch and puts it in the fireless cooker before she goes to high school. Rhea and Max wash and wipe the dishes. Each one has some task or two to help out. Mildred even made a middle for Rhea the other day. And my, but she is proud of it! And Mildred makes all the — I mean she mixes all the — that is, she — " "Call it Victory Bread, Marj," Zeph Jr. laughed. "Then mother won't mind so much." "Call it whatever you please," Mrs. Badger observed testily. "Somebody else will have to make it if I must go down to those gauze rooms. It's either war-bread, or thrift stamps, or liberty bonds or Red Cross — " "Or desolation, destitution and death, spiritually and physically," Zeph finished solemnly. Mrs. Badger did not reply. The meal was over and she must clear up and see that the children picked up their things and brushed their teeth before they went to bed. She was the efficient housewife and usually attended to every detail. But tonight she was too tired and out of sorts to do anything but step around the toys, let the teeth go and sit down with her mending basket. Zeph glanced at her once or twice and looked away again. He wanted to talk but his wife's countenance was gloomy and unresponsive. He wondered, too, why some women's hair made a fringe behind the ears and at the back of the head and other women's hair looked so pretty. Marjory also glanced at her mother from time to time. They had learned so many interesting things at high school. She did so long to talk them over with her mother. Mrs. Badger could feel their eyes upon her and knew that her face was forbidding, but what could a woman do more than she was doing. The younger children had a crying match and were finally subdued and put to bed. And Mrs. Badger dragged herself off to rest. The day had been a succession of humiliating failures. She could see that she was getting to be an overdriven drudge instead of the serene soul of her home. The reflection in her mirror was a thing to turn away from. And she turned from it as her husband and daughter had done. That unsightly bob, which Kipling dubbed the "badge of Mormondom" was unbecoming and made no concession to the straggling locks by her ears and at the back of her head. Marjory had often begged to do it up in a pretty style she wanted to try but the mother had no time to sit down. However, night was not the time for reflections. Something must be done but her good habit of relaxing her body and composing her features for repose, was not to be sacrificed. She slept and left the problem till the morrow. And on the morrow a letter from her baby brother now in the training camp offered the solution. He enjoyed the discipline and the sense of responsibility. He took a pride in doing things in a given time. "The training was great, the meals scientific and tip-top." His enthusiasm was unbounded. And this was the boy who had been a spendthrift, a pool-hall devotee and a cigar connoisseur and aimed at nothing higher. Mrs. Badger went about her work with a new light in her eyes. It was plain to see that she was making plans. "I guess if General Pershing cooked and washed dishes and made beds and swept barracks and ordered foods and darned and mended and picked up after the soldiers, he would have little time or thought or strength for the great moves of the war. And the Prussians would win as far as America was concerned," Mrs. Badger thought to herself. "And we'd have a badly disciplined lot of soldiers instead of enthusiastic men writing home about their share of responsibility and the great joy they took in it." "Mother, may I have a thrift stamp?" four-year-old Jerry begged. Mrs. Badger was taking up ashes but she also took time to take up Jerry and squeeze him. "Mama has a new plan," she said. "Jerry must earn his thrift stamps. His salary is to be one penny a day. And his work is to take up the ashes carefully and bring in the wood and help with the dusting. He must also keep his barracks neat." "What's barracks?" Jerry asked, thrilled to the core with the new word and its soldier connections. "Goodie, goodie," he danced after mama had explained. "Mayn't I earn one, too?" Jerry's twin, Geraldine urged. "Geraldine is to wash dishes for mama to wipe. She must also dust and pick up her own toys," the mother explained. "And Geraldine is to have one penny a day for thrift stamps if she does her work nicely." "Don't I get any?" Marjory inquired whimsically. "You are to have a chance to put into practice everything they have taught you in high school in cooking and sewing," the mother smiled as she held her daughter tenderly to her. "The soldiers are boasting about their scientific feeding. If you have learned this new art let us have the benefit. Your salary is to be somewhat larger, but out of it you must manage to clothe yourself and buy your thrift stamps." In her joy, Marjory caught her mother about the waist and danced her about. "Oh, mother, I'm so glad. I'm so eager to begin. We've been studying foods how to select and balance a meal and how to prepare the food to be most wholesome and to properly nourish the body. May I plan the meals, too?" "Take it all over today, if you wish, dear," and the mother's heart smote her as she thought of her own smallness and jealousy that had kept this enthusiastic lieutenant from her aid. Mrs. Badger drew Marjory to a chair beside her. "I'm going to have lots of fruits and fresh vegetables," Marjory went on. "They are so important for their mineral salts. And we learned to make such good crackers and cookies with whole-wheat and oatmeal. If we would grind all the wheat as our grandparents did, instead of taking out the best part for the cows and pigs, we would be more healthful and have stronger teeth and live longer, and besides, would have plenty of grain for ourselves and our allies, without trying to crowd these substitutes into yeast bread. "Why, just think, mother, the average American lives only 33 years. The average Russian lives 55. And the chief difference in the food is that the Russian grinds all his wheat and corn and uses it that way. We rob our bodies of the vitamins he furnishes his." "Why, it is the Word of Wisdom, Marjory, 'Wheat for man.' It doesn't say just the starch out of the wheat. 'Fruits in their season,' fruits of the vine as well as fruits of the tree, of course, and 'eat sparingly of meat.' " "I know it, mother, our Word of Wisdom is just what the government is asking of us right now. One of the girls showed it to the teacher, who is not a Mormon. She was so surprised. She thought all it said was to abstain from drinking tea and coffee. And she thought that was wonderful enough because the latest scientific discovery is to the effect that hot drinks and foods are one of the most frequent causes of cancer of the mouth and stomach." "My darling daughter," the mother sighed, "we had these things first in that God-given document. Many of us failed to heed. Now that science has discovered what God long ago revealed to our prophet, I suppose we will pay more attention. And you have known these things all this time and never told me?" "You seemed always so tired and busy, mother, I thought you would not want me to interfere. Some of the girls were going to get married so they could try their hands at housekeeping because their mothers wouldn't let them mess about in their kitchens at home." "I suppose there are natural housekeepers who can scarcely wait to play at housekeeping," the mother smiled, remembering her own girlhood. "And I know you would prefer to be alone with your first meal, so I will go to town and do the shopping and surprise your father by walking home with him for lunch. Do you mind if we call for grandma and bring her along also?" "No. I'll try something easy today." Something easy seemed to appeal to every taste around the table when they all excitedly tried Marjory's first luncheon. "What dandy soup, Marj," Zeph Jr. remarked. Marjory flushed happily. "A warm soup is good for us, too," Marjory observed. "I just took the bone and scraps from yesterday's roast and added the potato water and water from the carrots I cooked, the outer leaves of the cabbage and lettuce and the tough stalks of the asparagus. In this way we get the iron and mineral salts we so much need." Zeph smiled proudly at his daughter. "Here! Here!" he cheered. "This salad wins my heart, too." "That is the best way to serve the raw green stuffs we need for roughage," Marjory was as pleased as punch. "I think these thin, crisp, whole wheat crackers are better to the taste and better for the teeth and stomach than that soggy yeast bread I have been turning out lately," Mrs. Badger praised generously. "We used to make some a little like these for the boys when they went back to the states," Grandma observed. "I don't know so much about these mineral salts and vitamins and roughage we hear so much about. But I do believe you are right about them. Every spring, I remember, we used to be sadly in need of Ayer's sarsaparilla or sassafras tea. What we really needed, I have no doubt, was these mineral salts and roughage in the raw, green vegetables and fresh fruits. They are the only things our winter diet had lacked." "Why, that's so," Zeph Jr. corroborated. "They've found out they can't keep the soldiers in the trenches well without green vegetables while they are in their prime, before they get big and pulpy. They're using them as roughage for the stock and green stuffs for the chickens." "Now that you have learned ways of saving most of these vegetables while they are in their prime before they get big and pulpy, I shouldn't wonder if you would come through the winter without the slightest need of sassafras tea or sarsaparilla," Grandma added. "All this talk of the high cost of living amuses me. Why, if every back yard and front yard, too, for that matter, was as it used to be, no one would need to notice the high cost of anything but clothes and the luxuries. Why, every home had its cow and pig and chickens and beehives, as well as its vegetable garden, fruit trees and berry vines. President Young used to tell us to grow and manufacture in this state everything this people needed. I notice government begs us to do this now, as much as possible to help out on the transportation problem." "We ought to have a beehive in our clover patch," Zeph Jr. suggested. "Then the high cost of honey and the scarcity of sugar wouldn't concern us. What do you say to two hives, father?" "Just the thing," the father agreed. "And you might plant more vegetables for Marjory to store away for the winter." "Yes, Marjory is mother's first lieutenant," the mother spoke proudly. "Lieutenant!" The word caught Bob's fancy. "Let's have a training camp, mother, and promotions and all the rest. Zeph could be captain of the garden." "Well said," Zeph agreed, "and when you have hoed enough weeds and shown your skill and good discipline you could be made a corporal." "Father could be the general! Mother the major-general, isn't that the next rank?" Marjory asked. "And each of us are privates," Bob supplemented. "Father will have to play a reveille on his cornet for us to rise by. And I can play taps on my drum for us to go to bed at night." "But we will only have fifteen minutes in which to dress and wash and comb and brush our teeth in the morning. And in fifteen minutes after taps at night we must be undressed and in bed and each article of clothing carefully arranged for quick dressing in the morning," Marjory sighed, wondering what kind of soldiers girls would make if they were timed in this way. "How about littering barracks," Zeph grinned, remembering his uncle's experience. "We will have to clean barracks for a week or help in the kitchen." "Great!" Marjory laughed. "And each one must learn to make his own bed and make it right. And keep his own quarters neat. And if an officer offends," here she looked hard at Zeph Jr., "he loses his little captainship." "Right-o!" Zeph agreed, "or her little lieutenancy." "How about a major-general who descends to the menial tasks of mess sergeant," the father inquired mischievously. "She'd be court-martialed," Marjory declared, "for usurping my authority. I'm mess sergeant now." "Before we actually assume office," the mother laughed, "I wonder how it would be for the general and captain to put some hooks low in the closet — " "Barracks, mother," Bob corrected. "Very well, barracks, so the three privates could have hooks they could reach to put their things on." Visions of unnecessary penalties rose in the wise mother's mind. "And make a chest of drawers for each to put his things in — " "His camp kit," Bob supplemented. He was a stickler for terms. "And paint each set white," Marjory suggested, "so they will look nice in their — " "Barracks," Jerry crowded, proud of having caught the right term. "Fine idea!" the father agreed. "Each soldier has a place for everything, and must keep everything in its place." "I'll write to Uncle Harold for more information," Zeph Jr. promised. "Well, if this sort of discipline is good for the soldiers, it is good for us and we cannot begin too soon," the father pronounced heartily. "And take it from me, children, your mother is the very one to follow up a good idea like this until the habit is formed." "You may tell the ladies I can assist in the Red Cross rooms," Mrs. Badger smiled, "if all I have to do is direct, inspect and manage and impose penalties and award rewards and promotions, I shall have plenty of time." "That is what she should be: the very heart of the household instead of what she has been trying to be, the stomach, liver, lungs, kidneys, and every other organ," the father said. "Lots of women will learn to manage so," Grandma declared, "it is just one more benefit of the war. We are going to learn to eat and have better health. There will be fewer dentist bills, diseased tonsils and appendices, when we learn to eat hard, whole wheat crackers instead of soft breads and follow the plan of eating plenty of green stuffs for roughage to scour the teeth and tonsils and sweep the bowels clean.