[Vol6 | January 1919 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: the Watch Tower]

On the Watch Tower
==================

ON THE WATCH TOWER. James H. Anderson. The fifth Liberty loan is set for April, 1919, and is to be for eight billion dollars. American troops made their first formal entry into Germany on November 20. Mexico continued its record of bandit warfare under Pancho Villa during the month of November. Oklahoma carried and Louisiana defeated woman suffrage in those states respectively, at the November election. Transcontinental air mail service was being tested in the United States in November, with fair prospect of success. The Peace convention will meet in Versailles, France, in December; at present there is no knowing how or when it will end. Austria surrendered to the entente allies on Nov. 3, and Italian troops occupied a considerable section of former Austrian territory. American army casualties in Europe up to November 11 totalled 236,117, including killed, died of disease, wounded, and prisoners. Germany surrendered to the entente allies on the latter's armistice terms on Nov. 11, and allied occupation of Germany began on Nov. 23. 46 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Kaiser William of Germany and the crown prince found a refuge in Holland upon the signing of the armistice with the entente allies on Nov. 11. Food is so scarce in Europe that the necessity of supplying the people there probably will cause a food shortage in the United States in 1919. In Belgium, on November 22, the former government was reestablished by the formal entry of the king and queen into Brussels, the capital. W. G. McAdoo, U. S. secretary of the treasury, director of railways, and son-in-law of President Wilson, resigned the first two positions on November 22. In Petrograd, Russia, it is said that food is so scarce that men and dogs have been seen battling in the streets for the flesh of horses which have died. Deaths from influenza in the United States up to November 30, 1918, were practically double the number of American soldiers killed in the war in Europe. Hungary has requested the entente allies to hasten peace negotiations lest all central and eastern Europe be ablaze with anarchy before control can be exercised. The German naval fleet, to the number of 131 vessels, surrendered off the coast of Scotland on Nov. 21 — the greatest naval event of the kind in the world's history. Masks for public use as a preventive of the spread of influenza are held by the Utah state board of health to be ineffective, judging by the experience in other states. Utah soldiers to the number of more than 300 had lost their lives either in battle or by disease, up to November 30, while in the United States army in the great war. Prohibition in the United States becomes effective July 1, 1919, and continues until the American army is demobilized, according to an act of Congress passed in November. Many American soldiers in France already have married French girls, and it is estimated that about quarter of a million of them will do so while the American army is there. ON THE WATCH TOWER. 47 Gen. J. J. Pershing, commander of the American armies in France and Germany, is being urged by Republicans in Ohio, his home state, to be a candidate for the presidency in 1920. Palestine is being speedily rehabilitated, and is receiving special attention in the view of welcoming Jews who migrate thither, of whom there will be many thousands from Europe. Influenza continued throughout November to be a severe pestilence in Utah, and on Nov. 22 the state board of health adopted further stringent restrictions to combat the disease. The number of killed in the great war already are shown by assembled statistics to be in excess of 7,000,000, exclusive of the millions who have died from starvation and from disease. Political conditions in Germany and Austria became so chaotic during the latter part of November, that there is grave danger of anarchy there unless the entente allies' armies prevent it. The Presidency of the Church, as organized on November 23, after the funeral of President Joseph F. Smith, is: Heber J. Grant, president; Anthon H. Lund and Charles W. Penrose, counselors. The election in November resulted in the Democrats electing state and congressional nominees in Utah, while in Idaho the Republicans carried all these offices except for the short term for U. S. senator. Bolsheviki continue their murderous regime in Russia, and in the latter part of November were making efforts to gain control in Germany and Austria, with the certainty of causing serious trouble there. Flour probably will be available in quantities to families in the United States for a few months after January 1, 1919, when the summer and increased shipping facilities to Europe will cause another scarcity. Turkey surrendered to Great Britain and France on November 1, this being the "last straw" which compelled the Teutonic empires to give way, bringing the fighting period of the war practically to a close ten days later. The Utah regiment, the 145th U. S. field artillery, will 48 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. not be a part of the army of occupation in Europe, hence will be allowed soon to return home. Outside of this regiment, about 14,000 Utah men are still in the army. Congress will be Republican in politics after March 4, 1919, notwithstanding President Wilson's appeal to elect a Democratic Congress. In the House the Republicans have 235 as against 200 opposed, and in the Senate 49 as against 47. "Blond Eskimos" is the name given by explorers V. Stefansson and W. J. Bower to a tribe of white aborigines in Victoria Land, in the Arctic regions. They are said to resemble the European Scandinavian stock. Celebrations for the virtual close of the war on Nov. 11 were held in all the entente allied countries on that date. In the United States, the drafting of troops ceased, and preparations were begun for demobilizing the American army as far as circumstances justify it. Government monopoly of inter-oceanic cables, established by President Wilson since the close of the war, is being bitterly opposed in and out of Congress, on the ground that such monopoly is a menace to the republican form of government in the United States. Mr. Gompers, of the American Federation of Labor, says there must be no decrease in wages or increase in the eight-hour working day, after the war; while the farmers announce that they will not work sixteen hours a day to pay high wages. There seems to be an internal conflict looming on the horizon.