[Vol6 | January 1919 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Home | Title: LESSON IV Home Courses Fourth Week in February NATIONAL ASPE]

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in February. NATIONAL ASPECTS OF PARENTHOOD, AND ITS PROBLEMS.
======================================================================

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in February. NATIONAL ASPECTS OF PARENTHOOD, AND ITS PROBLEMS. Maternal care and the making of a home are to be traced in numerous types of life besides that of human beings. Interesting illustrations might be drawn from fish and insects, birds and mammals to show three, among other important, points, in the growth of parenthood: (1) Without prolonged parental care, the destruction of life is so enormous that a very large number of offspring must be produced to perpetuate the species. Is it not a serious reflection upon the Twentieth century that hundreds of thousands of infants die annually within a few weeks of birth from no other cause than want of care, to the serious impoverishment of civilization? The conditions fatal to these infants damage the survivors more or less permanently, reducing individual capacity and national efficiency. (2) Valuable lessons are to be learned from observations on the varied forms of care in lowly types of life, where instinct directs the right preparation for the birth of the young and for their protection until they are self supporting. But under the complex conditions of modern civilization, trained intelligence must replace uneducated instinct, if young human life is to be safeguarded. (3) As life rises to a higher level of mental and social capacity, we note that the cooperation of two parents becomes essential to its production and protection. A dim recognition by primitive parents of such forms of personal responsibility may have led to the formation of the first human home as a means of shelter or protection. It paid to keep the children alive and well. Their motives were not purely unselfish; rather they were impressed with the thought of benefits to be derived from the help of intelligent and vigorous sons and daughters, who would assist in home duties, in hunting, in enemy attacks and especially, who would care for the parents when they became sick or feeble; this fact is perhaps the most forcible reason for the existence of family life. A less generally recognized purpose of family life is the maintenance of a fine racial standard. History reveals the fact that where family life deteriorated, so also did national efficiency. Therefore, upon the parents of today, upon their methods of bringing up their families, hinges the future of this nation. In order to furnish the country with a right-minded, self-supporting vigorous population, high standards of health and noble ideals of conduct must be fostered in home life. The surroundings, moral and physical, among which a child passes the first eight or ten years of its existence, color the whole of its future, and are responsible for the standard of civic worth it will attain in maturity. Consequently modern family life must fulfill four main functions: (1) Protection during infancy, and childhood, and again in old age. (2) Education, or systematic intelligent training in useful habits, and in ability to benefit from the experience of the past. (3) Development of bodies and minds, by play and work, food, rest, clothing, and care, suited to the age of each member of a household. (4) Social training, through the give and take of home life, and by the practice of mutual love, patience, service, courtesy and self control, which constitute essential preparation for the national responsibilities of maturity. Direct responsibility for the selection and support of a suitable home devolves upon the parents, but indirectly this is shared by the nation. There are numerous external considerations to be taken into account, such as, location, cleanliness of neighbors, freedom from dirt, bad odors, or from unnecessary industrial noise, which are largely dependent upon community standards, and the efficiency of the state and local boards of health. A good home must furnish means for rest and recreation as well as food, warmth, cleanliness and general comfort. The space surrounding the home should be ample for healthful activities, such as gardening, or games. The existing slight value placed on home recreation is actually a national concern, when we realize the far-reaching results of the growing tendency of young people to seek amusement outside the home, and of their craving for abnormal excitement, and exaggerated stimulation, such as is sought, for example, in the popular "movies." Among these results are premature nervous exhaustion, discontent with the quiet routine of normal life, and increased incentive to juvenile crime. (A good standard for judging moving pictures is given on page 20, of The Civics Hand Book, published by the National Federation of Women's Clubs.) Formerly it was thought that the care of children was a purely parental affair, but one outgrowth of this century is the recognition that the quality of a nation depends on the material reared in the homes; therefore, the state must now concern itself not only with the cultivation of a sound public opinion on this matter, but must ensure that normal children shall be reared in normal homes through the provision of good conditions for life, including wholesome recreation. Last, but by no means least, comes the recognition that parenthood is a profession, for which training must be provided, that the process of development in young human beings is very prolonged, and that each individual suffers throughout life if this process is not adequately safeguarded. The elasticity and adaptability of young human nature are so great that the results to the children of parental ignorance are often deferred for many years. These effects may not show themselves until the individual is exposed to the stress of heavy anxiety or overwork, or of maternity in later life. Then, instead of responding with elasticity to the strain, there is a collapse or a period of prolonged ill health. Results are thus separated by years from their real causes, and the connection is unfortunately overlooked. Unless the physical condition of the youth of the nation is passed in review, as was the case last year; then the nation is startled out of its misplaced confidence in parental capacity, and demands more intelligent home care of its youthful citizens in the interests of national prosperity. Care to secure a high standard in child life should begin even before marriage, for it is now known that sound health in the offspring is associated with the character and physique of prospective parents, and depends upon their education for their responsibilities, as well as upon the skilled care of expectant mothers. Among the agencies for such preparation for Parenthood may be included:— (1) Opportunities for study of the subject in high school and college. (2) Classes and lectures for the general public, supported by special newspaper articles and exhibits. The question of Child Labor and Education should constitute other vital parental interests. What is usually described as education, that is, the few hours out of the twenty-four spent daily in the school room, cannot produce as enduring results as do the social and moral standards founded on education in the home. The necessity for legal safeguards in respect of child labor is unfortunately urgent, and should engage the attention of all parents. How comparatively few parents appreciate the necessity for the study of individual child nature! Too often, for instance, precocity is stimulated instead of regulated, or ignorance allows the development of physical and mental handicaps, which could be controlled by early and judicious treatment; or undue repression or extreme indulgence results in juvenile delinquency. Yet such failure of parental care, burdens the nation with more or less defective citizens — not necessarily of criminal tendencies, but unable to contribute their full quota of efficient service to the national life. Nevertheless, there are hopeful signs of a slow awakening on the part of the public, which is, after all, largely composed of parents. The Children's Year Campaign "To save 100,000 babies and get a square deal for children" opened on April 6th, with the beginning of the nation-wide weighing and measuring test of young children. This work, inaugurated by the National Council of Defence on behalf of children has been approved by President Wilson, who expresses the hope that "the work may so successfully develop as to set up certain irreducible minimum standards for the health, education, and work of the American child." It depends upon the homes of the country to attain and maintain such standards. REFERENCES. Children's Year Working Program, Bul. No. 40, Leaflet, No. 3. U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. Child Care, The Preschool Age, part 1, by Mrs. Max West, (pages 7-11). U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. Infant Care, Series No. 2. Pub. No. 8, by Mrs. Max West, (pages 9-19). U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C. Infant Mortality, by Raphael S. Olsen. Bul. No. 1, (pages 13, 14, 21-32). University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah. QUESTIONS. 1. What are the special functions of a home? 2. Give three illustrations from lower types of life of instinct guidance in birth preparations and protection of the young. 3. What are the essentials in the maintenance of high racial standard? 4. How would you propose preparing the youth of the country for the responsibilities of parenthood? 5. What is the relation between national efficiency and home life? 6. Why has it been necessary to organize the Children's Year Campaign?