Something to Think About By Dr. Heber J. Sears, Head of Department of Hygiene University of Utah
THE THYROID GLAND
In our last article we talked about the mystery of the glands?their influence on intellectuality, personality and body growth. We merely hinted at the important role played by the thyroid gland. Let us now go into the study of that interesting gland more thoroughly.
We mentioned two periods of life where body growth is exceedingly rapid?the prenatal period and the period of adolescence. During the prenatal period the things that circulate in the mother's blood go into the building of the child that is being carried under her heart, and nothing whatever can go into the building of the unborn child that is not in the mother's system. During this period the mother is called upon to give up bone material from her bones, blood from her blood, gland material from her glands, etc. If the mother's system is deficient in calcium or lime salts, during pregnancy, the child's teeth will be brittle and the bone structure correspondingly poor. In the same manner, if the mother's thyroid gland is deficient in iodine during pregnancy, the child may either be born a cretin, or it may develop goiter early in life. In other words, the mother cannot give to her child that which her own system does not contain any more than a builder can put lime, brick or stone into a building unless he has these things with which to build. If the great significance of this one principle alone could be fully impressed upon every mother we should soon be breeding a superior race.
Adolescence is the second period of rapid growth. Here again, the thyroid gland is taxed to its utmost?especially in girls. Coincident with this special activity due to rapid growth, to the awakening of the emotions or to the bearing of offspring, the thyroid gland increases in volume, but if continuously supplied with a minute quantity of iodine it faithfully performs its function, insuring mental and physical vigor. Over-activity or under-activity of the thyroid gland usually causes it to enlarge, and when it is enlarged we say its owner has goiter. This disease is more prevalent among women than among men.


Goiters are of two general kinds?simple and toxic, or poisonous. Unless treated, simple goiter sometimes develops later into toxic goiter. In toxic, or poisonous goiter the patient is nervous and irritable. There is muscular tremor, and although the appetite is excessive, there is weakness and usually great loss in weight.
It is now pretty definitely established that simple goiter is due to an iodine deficiency or lack of certain chemical elements found mostly in sea water, and known in chemistry as halogens. These elements are iodine, chlorine, bromine, and fluorine. Of these, iodine seems most important to the thyroid. Absence in the diet, and in the drinking water, of these chemical elements which the ocean yields abundantly causes disturbances in the thyroid and probably in other glands. Goiter is not a sea shore disease. The goiter areas are those far removed from the ocean, that is they are inland districts. In the United States goiter is most prevalent in the regions of the Great Lakes and the Pacific Northwest.
It is gratifying to be able to state that most of our goiter is simple goiter and the magic word is prevention. One leading authority stakes his reputation on the statement that "Simple goiter is the easiest known disease to prevent." The prevention of simple goiter, in goitrous regions consists in the giving of a very minute quantity of iodine to the expectant mother all through the period of pregnancy and in carrying out a similar treatment among the young until they reach the age of seventeen or eighteen.
Let no one, however, from what has just been said, undertake self-treatment for goiter, by the use of iodine. Iodine in goiter is like a two-edged sword and should be administered only by a competent physician after a careful study in each case, because there is one type of poisonous goiter in which iodine is extremely harmful.
The goiter problem is one of great economic and sociologic importance, because it has a bearing upon the physical and mental well-being of the race. As stated in our last article, it is estimated that, in the United States, some forty million dollars is wasted annually on retarded school children?in re-teaching what they have already been taught but have failed to learn. Just how much of this dullness is due to goiter has yet to be determined.
During the past half century all the sciences have had a new birth, but in no line of endeavor have we achieved more brilliant conquests than in the field of preventive medicine. As a result of the achievements in this field the average age at death, in the United States, is now about twice what it was some
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT 251
sixty years ago. Our newer knowledge of goiter and its prevention is an acquisition of the last decade. Among the names of those deserving immortality for their work of human service in this field are Dr. David Marine, of New York City, whose research work gave us a safe and sure method of prevention, Dr. O. P. Kimball of Cleveland, Ohio, who initiated the preventive treatment in the public schools, and Dr. E. C. Kendall who demonstrated the relationship of iodine to the physiology of the thyroid.
While our knowledge of goiter is yet far from perfect, the researches of the past decade have thrown a flood of light on the problem, and the spectacular results already attained form a most brilliant page in the recent annals of preventive medicine. Lest some of our readers should become unnecessarily alarmed by the flaming headlines that have recently appeared in some of our newspapers about the prevalence of goiter in Utah, let us say that our next article in the Relief Society Magazine will quiet some of these fears. Watch for it.
Mother Dear By Carrie Tanner
How precious to us all is mother dear! Enfolded in her wealth of love we live. When joy or depths of sorrow hover near, We crave the comfort she alone can give.
How sweet the tones of her soft lullaby! The earnest prayer she taught us by her knee, The good-night kiss, her watchful presence nigh, Still linger in our loving memory.
How soon are gone our happy care-free days! But lessons taught by mother still remain To guide us in our thoughts and in our ways, That blessings rich, eternal, we may gain.
How great the debt we owe to mother dear! Then let us in return our love bestow, And show our worth in actions that bring cheer, And thus make bright her rich life's sunset glow.
In that Life that Never Ends
Dedicated to those stricken of their loved ones at the great holocaust at the Castle Gate Mine, March 8, 1924
By Josie E. Childs
"Heavens broad day hath o'er us broken Far above earth's span of sky; Are we dead? Nay, by this token, Know that we have ceased to die."
We have left you for a season, But our presence you will feel, When you seek for consolation, At the "Throne of Grace" you kneel.
School thy feelings, wife and mother, Though the clouds obstruct thy way, Father's tender care is o'er you Bringing solace day by day.
In the great and holy temples There is work for you to do, That will bring sweet joy and comfort While this sorrow you pass through.
You can do a work for many, And the ones you love so dear; There are times the veil is lifted And you feel their presence near.
Time is passing, Oh, so quickly, When again you meet your friends, And the loved ones rudely taken, In that life that never ends.