Efficient Motherhood a Vital Need By Claire Stewart Boyer Motherhood is not as yet a recognized profession, in spite of the fact that millions of women are devoting their lives toit. The reason is simple. To become what can be termed "professional," in any line of work, study is necessary. Too many women blunder into marriage knowing nothing or next to nothing about its great mission?motherhood. And the saddest part of it is they remain content to continue the would-be profession of motherhood in ignorance. Back door gossip, friendly hints, once in a while a bit of mature advice, have constituted their store of knowledge on this most vital of all subjects. No wonder motherhood cannot be classed as a profession. Ninety-nine out of every hundred girls want to become mothers. From the age of six to sixty they are curious concerning the evolution of life, Yet they ask hesitatingly for information. If they are brave they ask their mothers; if not, they ask their friends. Sometimes they get hold of a magazine which enlightens them a bit. Sometimes they secure a book and secretly read of the mysteries of life. Seldom do they openly face the problem with a truthful knowledge that will set them free from fear. Many girls stand at the altar with love in their hearts and not a great deal in their heads about motherhood. They only know that motherhood is somehow connected with marriage. This is certainly far from a professional attitude; yet, once within the ranks of the world's mothers, they want recognition. No girl would expect to succeed as a stenographer if she attempted to do stenographic work without a knowledge of typewriting and stenography. Nor would she attempt any other line of business in ignorance. Even the girl who wants a job as salesgirl, if she has any spunk, reads up on her would-be profession. Only this greatest of undertakings is too frequently begun with no definite knowledge. It is the peculiar few who shock their friends with the information that they are reading books on eugenics, etc. "Learn from experience" seems to be the slogan of too many mothers and grandmothers. It is their advice to the younger generation, "O well, you'll learn," they say, smiling wisely, "just as we did." Yet the blame cannot all be placed on the shoulders of the passing generation. To the young girls of today must come the challenge, "Prepare yourselves." Books have proved the salvation of the world in its march toward progress, and there were never so many books as today. Nor is it EFFICIENT MOTHERHOOD 233 ever too late to begin to read. The mother of eight children can do well to get some information besides that acquired from experience. Her ninth child may be a genius, in which case her much used and time-worn methods of handiing children will fail. But again I say it is to the young girls, the brides-to-beto whom reason must make its appeal. Suppose someone should bluntly ask, "Are you going to make your marriage a success?" The blushing bride would probably answer, "I hope so." But if that same person were to ask, "How?" what would be the reply? O, every girl has her little dream: a pretty home, well kept, herself attractive always, and good meals. Sometimes her mind wanders as far as children. She may resolve to do the best she can, but does she resolve to progress? For after all, that is the secret of the happy home, the successful mother. A moment ago I mentioned books. There is little excuse for a girl who will not put forth the effort to obtain good reading material upon the subject of her chosen profession. If she fails, little sympathy is due her. There are libraries and schools each containing books of value. She need not be ashamed of her ignorance; librarians are for the most part intelligent and sympathetic beings, ready to recommend books for all needs. There are traveling libraries, friends libraries, book stores, all of which may contribute to individual needs and desires. Again, I say, there are so many books, that ignorance is a sin. Perhaps the problem of guidance as to the selection of books should be considered. In every center of learning there are men and women well informed on books, ready to aid anyone who has the desire to learn. If you are not within walking distance of such a place, four cents will carry a letter asking for information and insuring a return. Besides teachers and librarians there are men and women such as doctors and nurses in every community who will be glad to put into the hands of those desiring to make themselves more efficient, either information or books to aid them. It should not be embarrassing to ask for the help that will make better mothers and thus raise the average of the child of the next generation. So after all it is not the lack of information, nor guidance in selecting the information, nor difficulty in procuring information; it seems to be the desire to get books and the will to read them, that is lacking. If girls could see their futures in a truer light than that revealed by gypsies and palmists, if they could realize how many of their mistakes are mere follies of ignorance, if they could sense the suffering avoidable through a little knowledge, then they might know the significance of the words?'"The Glory of God is Intelligence," 
 If the young bride has not taken the time to prepare herself for home-making before her marriage, she can very easily read a few books each year of her married life which will make her work at home more interesting. It has been said, and said truly, that the most fascinating pursuit in the world is the pursuit of knowledge. This is especially so when the knowledge gained can be used toward personal success. Marriage becomes more than a routine of duties enlivened with a little pleasure, when it is vitalized by a desire to make it successful, and progresses with knowledge added continuously. One reason that there is so much discontent among wedded couples is the fact that they neglect to burn the lamp of enlightenment, preferring moonlight and glow-worms. There are many interesting problems connected with homemaking which are always in the process of change, and hence interesting to study. You may have your own little theory of love but El'en Key can tell you something about it you don't know. You may think you are practical and know how to handle your husband's money, but Charlotte Perkins Gilman can help you. You may believe you understand children, but Gruenberg and Dr. Holt can tell you startling facts you should know. There is no end to the interesting help you can gain from modern available books. Every mother should read these 'books or their equivalents: Mother Croft Manual?Read. Character Training in Childhood?Haviland. Guidebook to Childhood?Forbush. Your Child Today and Tomorrow?Gruenberg. The Care and Feeding of Children?Holt. Feeding the Famuily?Rose. These books are all in the Public Library of Salt Lake City, and any book store manager will be glad to get them for prospective buyers. I am adding another library list that is splendid in aiding parents in their home problems: Psychology and Parenthood?Bruce. Training of the Human Plant?Burbank. Child and Country?Comfott. Problem of the Nervous Child?Evans. Concerning Children?Gilman. Century of the Child?Key. Outlines of Child Study?McKeever. Advanced Montessore Method?Montessore. Parents and Their Problems?Eight Volumes. How to Know Your Child?Scott. Measurement of Intelligence?Terman. From the Child's Standpoint?Winterburn, EFFICIENT MOTHERHOOD 285 Men Who Made Good?Fanris. The Youth and the Nation?Moore. My Boy and I?Herrick. Building Your Boy?Wayne. Finding Youth?Andrews. The Boy Problem?Forbush. Self Training for Mothers?Chance. Parent and C. Hild?Cope. A Mother's Ideals?Proudfoot: Trend of the Teens?O'Shea. Sons and Daughters?Gruenberg. The American Girl and Her Community?Slatterly. DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS TO MEET IN SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 23 TO 28 Madame Schumann-Heink, one of the world's best-known prima donnas and concert singers, will be present at the fourth annual national convention of the Disabled American Veterans of the World War, to be held in Salt Lake City, June 23 to 28, and will sing at the opening session of the great conclave, Monday morning, June 23; according to telegraphic advices received here today by Commander Gaylen S. Young, chairman of the general convention committee, at its headquarters in the Hotel Utah, from National Commander James A. McFarland at Washington, D. C. The great singer met national officials of the Drea. Of W. W. In New York City yesterday, and accepted their invitation to attend the coming national convention in Salt Lake City, At the Minneapolis national convention banquet last year, Mayor Col. George Leach of that city presided as toastmaster, dnd called upon the great diva for remarks. In a choking voice Madame Schumann-Heink expressed her grief over the death of her sons, fighting on opposite sides in the world conflict. Voicing her pride in the death of the one son fighting with the American forces, she added that she had no apologies to make for the son who met death while serving the enemy country. Getting Ready for Cousin Alice By Annie Pike Greenwood "Come, Snapper, we're going." John threw the last big piece of sagebrush on top of the already loaded hay-rack. Jimmy came running with his arms fall. "Wait, Papa; here's some awful big sage-brush I picked up where someone had chopped it off." John lifted Jimmy on to the hay-rack, sprang up himself, and with a "Come, Kate! Come, Nell!" was soon bumping through the sage-brush to the road. John's thoughts were of his wife at home, as the hay-rack clattered along the road. For a year now she had been prostrated with head-aches that came on suddenly and left her weak and worn, and instead of getting better they were growing worse. He had told seventeen-year-old Doris that morning that if her mother did not get better by noon to send a neighbor's boy for Dr. Snow. John and Jimmy had been gone since morning, first to Hen Bailey's to help kill hogs, and then out in the sage-brush for the winter's kindling. Jimmy was no help with the hogs, and very little with the sage-brush, but there was no boy of his age within three miles of John's farm, and he had begged so hard to come. Besides. John enjoyed the little fellow's companionship on the lonely road home. John and Jimmy sang together all the songs that either of them knew from "Tipperary" to "Kkk-katy." They chanted together, "I went to the animal show, The birds and the beasts were there, And the big baboon By the light of the moon Was combing his auburn hair. "Oh, the monkey he got drunk And sat on the elephant's trunk; The elephant sneezed, And got down on his knees, And that was the last of the Monkey?monkey?monkey?-monkey?monk?"' Just then whir-r-r-r-r an automobile came behind them and Kate and Nell reared and stepped sideways. GETTING READY FOR COUSIN ALICE ?? 237 "Steady, girls!' yelled John, "are you going to let a Jitney send you to the hossespital?" Jimmy grinned with delight at his father's joke. "How would you like a Jitney, Jimmy?" "Oh, Papa, get a big one, won't you?" "Sure, boy?have to, with our family." His thoughts went happily to the surprise he meant to make Millie soon. The crops had not been as good as he had expected ?barley a loss, potatoes ditto, but wheat and hay had made good. He had hoped for a high class car, but a Jitney would serve the purpose. He had the money saved for the Jitney, and the time was ripe to make known his surprise. Tomorrow he would go to Twin Falls and look at cars? So he mused until the big gate of his farm was reached. As he drove in, seventeen-year-old Doris came running to meet him, her cheeks, usually pink, quite pale, and her eyes frightened. John recognized that something was wrong, and reined in the horses. "Oh, Papa, Mama fainted while you were gone, and I sent for Dr. Snow?Tom Jones went in his automobile. And, Papa, Dr. Snow says mother must have a complete change, or?or?" the tears welled into the girl's eyes. John answered nothing, but hastened to put the team in the barn and go at once to his wife. Millie was feeling better, and tried to smile at their insistence that she was to have a change at once. "There's no place I would be as happy as -here," she demurred. "You are going to your sister Virginia. It will be a complete change from an Idaho farm to a city like Denver." Millie felt that she could not consider it, but as the day wore on and she considered the weight of the many unescapable tasks her tired body suggested at length, "It would be good to have a change. It would be good to go some place and see something else than just shanties and hills and mountains and alfalfa and wheat; and wear some good clothes and have a rest. Perhaps it I go for a short time I won't feel so snappy with the children when I come back. Poor little things, I can hardly bear to have them 'touch me, and when they cry and fuss with each other it nearly drives me frantic." The succeeding days were filled with a new kind of excitement. With Doris' help Millie was selecting her "trousseau," as Beth was pleased to call it, having just picked up the word from a story she was reading. After the order had gone East, Millie began getting ready for Cousin Alice. Up in the garret she began. As she worked she looked at everything through Cousin 238 ? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Alice's eyes.. The great box of old shoes, accumulation of years, was sorted. Good shoes and rubbers were hung in pairs on nails where an observer could see at once what was desired instead of raking out onto the floor a miscellaneous assortment of mismates, which were left, of course, for Millie to pick up and pile back into the box. All the worn out shoes Millie burned guiltily. She had been keeping them all these years for fear John might need a leather strap to put on a barn door. John had never once required such an article. Next she tackled the case of books reaching almost to the ceiling, over which hung a gigantic old couch cover to keep the dust out. When she lifted this, Millie's heart sank at the nightmare which confronted her. She had never had the heart to destroy a book; worthy or worthless but there they were, piled and packed as closely as possible, a most disorderly collection. What would Cousin Alice say? Resolutely Millie took them out, one by one?Gregg's Short Hand, studied when a girl; twelve once semi-popular novels; a treatise on the elimination of the cotton boll weavil (so appropriate for an Idaho ranch!) How to raise Rabbits. (When the problem of this country was how to destroy them fast enough.) The Body Beautiful, a set of exercises. (Poor Millie, who had so much exercise from morning until night that she had no time to beautify her body.) Books and books and books which might possibly somewhere in the world be of use, but which were here only cluttering up the garret and making house-cleaning horrifying. Both the living-room stove and the kitchen stove were soon raging furnaces. For the first time in her life Millie was burning books, and after the first shock of vandalism was over she looked around for new worlds to conquer, the scent of the battle luring her into new fields. She must not give offense to Cousin Alice. Everything must be spick and span with all the unnecessaries cut out. After she finished the bedrooms she thought she would rest before tackling the downstairs by doing the children's summer sewing. That was the way Millie had always taken her rest ow the farm?by beginning a new job. The baby was cross and insisted on getting into her lap while the twins were thrusting their fingers under the sewing-machine needle and into the wheel when John came into the house looking for his gloves. "T thought you sent for your clothes." "I did; but I must get the children ready for Cousin Alice." "Don't they have children's clothes in the catalogues?" "Yes, but they cost so much at the side of what I can make them for." GETTING READY FOR COUSIN ALICE 239 "It will cost more than any clothes out of a catalogue if you get sick. You make out an order. I made enough money this year for everything you want." And thus the automobile began to vanish entirely out of sight. It was a disappointment. John couldn't hide that fact from himself. All the men who had come to this section of Idaho at the time he had, were now owners of automobiles, and _ came first. What was an automobile at the sight of that gritty little woman who had shared his hardships from the first, though She had never set foot on a farm before? John would gladly ride in the old white-top to town all the coming year for her sake, Doris and her mother had another delightful session reading descriptions in the catalogues and looking at the pictures, "Here is just the thing for Bobby, Doris; striped blue and white seersucker rompers?"' "But isn't that more expensive than the chambray, Mama?" "I must get the children's clothes ready for Cousin Alice so that she will not have much ironing to do. I have got to plan everything to make it as easy as possible for her." As soon as the order was in the mail, Millie began the downstairs cleaning. She did all those things of which she had dreamed for years, but never seemed to find time to do; made new, pretty cretonne curtains, and cushions, cleaned the sideboard of the collection of family treasures ?Family Trash,? Doris called it, disgustedly, although that did not hinder her from contributing to the general disorder, John and the children proterrupted only by a cut-glass bowl, a coffee percolator, and some silver goblets which her mother had left her. After all, it was not the proper repository for John's pipe that forever belched ashes over everything, Jimmy's battleship, the twin's much battered dolls, Doris' book, Beth's box of colors, and even Millie's When it was firmly insisted upon it was remarkable how soon the family got into the habit of not putting everything on When her "trousseau" came Doris and Beth were as elated as if it had been for them. "Now, Mama," said Doris, "I must Shorten this skirt a little. You are only thirty-seven and I will 
 not have you look like sixty. Doesn't she look pretty in that, Beth? But I must teach her how to do her hair. Why, Mama, I have been neglecting you. Who would ever have thought that our little Mama could look so sweet in anything? You haven't had a new dress in six years, have you, Mama? I am so glad you can have this trip. From now on until you go, Mama, you must wear canvas gloves whenever you do anything. I am going to get your hands pretty to go with your pretty clothes. There is no sense in your looking old and frumpish. Papa, come here!" After some urging and dragging on Beth's part John stood | in the doorway and beheld his wife, cheeks pink and hair fluffy in the pretty plum-colored dress. "Why, Mama!" he said in frank pleasure. "It's worth a car to see you look like that once again! We've been cheating ourselves. Girls, we are not going to let our pretty Mama get old, are we?" And John, without any urging on Beth's part, crossed the room and took the plum-colored dress in his arms and brought the love-light into his wife's eyes with the tender kiss he gave her. "I feel better already!" she murmured against his cheek. So much for the power of a new dress. Who can calculate the good that it may do in the world? The day came for them to part. Cousin Alice had been delayed, but Doris with John's help was to tide the family over the week: between Millie's leaving and Cousin Alice's coming. Millie's trunk was packed, and all was in readiness. But had a stranger entered that home he would have suspected that the family was in readiness, not for a desired trip, but for some dire misfortune. Gloom was over all, even the twins seemed to sense the situation and clung to Millie without intermission. She wanted them to do so, for now that the parting was close at hand she had no desire whatever to push the little fingers away. How she loved them! How could she bear to have any other person minister to their wants? How could she be so hardhearted as to forsake good little blueeyed oy for any reason whatever? They were all seated at the table that last night. John was pretending to read, but his heart was heavy within him. Doris had her mind but partly on her book, while Beth and Jimmy made no pretenses of the fact that they were leaning against mother's knees as long as it was possible to do so. Millie sat idly running her fingers through their hair and over their smooth cheeks. Nobody was thinking of anything but that on the morrow mother would be gone for a long time.
An automobile stopped at the gate, and a few moments later came a knock on the door. "Come in, Dr. Snow, you are just in time to say goodbye to my wife. It took some little time to get