The Relief Society Short Story Contest

EDDIE Mickey Goodwin

The sun shone down on Eddie's brown back as he stood at the top of the hill. He could feel the soft summer wind blowing his hair and pulling at his pants' legs. The prairie earth and new grass felt warm under his feet. From his place on the hill, Eddie could see for miles to the east. The sky was high and warm as a light blue blanket. The sunshine made the prairie a lovely land of lavender, orange, and yellow. Below him, gray smoke drifted lazily upward through the cottonwood trees. He knew his mother must be frying bread. He could hear the laughter of his little sisters as they chased one another around the house. His brown eyes sparkled with pleasure. His young mouth was spread into a fine smile. The wind made strands of black hair dance on his forehead. Eddie breathed deeply. It was a good day. He felt warm and clean and free.

Just then his ranging glance caught sight of a cloud of dust rapidly toward him across the prairie. That was what he had been waiting to see. He knew it was his dad coming home with the check. Instantly Eddie was in motion. His arms went out, his legs shot him forward down the hill, and a great, long "Yahoo" burst forth from his lungs. 'He's coming. He's coming," Eddie yelled as he raced down the hill, dashing around the cactus and leaping over the sagebrush. '"Dad's coming," he yelled again as he ran across the bare-packed earth near the house and stopped beside his mother. "Is Dad coming?" his mother asked. 'He said I could go to Rapid City with him," Eddie said, excitedly.

The old dog stood up and stretched. He stuck his nose affectionately in Eddie's hand, hoping to get his ears scratched. But Eddie was too busy. He turned around and bounced out to the front of the house just as his dad stopped the car. "Are we going, Dad?" The big man nodded and said, "Yup. Are you ready? You'll have to get on a shirt and your shoes."

"Hey, Mom," Eddie called as he danced back to his mother where she knelt beside the fire. "Where's my shirt and shoes? We're going to Rapid City!" His mother stood up and smiled at him. She picked up the side of her skirt and wiped her hands on it. "You've not been there for a long time, have you?" Eddie was impatient. "Where's my stuff?"

She reached out and ruffled his hair. "Last time I saw your shoes they were under the girls' bed. You'll have to pull that box out to get them." Eddie disappeared into the house to get his shoes. He knew where he could find a shirt, because he had left one in his bed a couple of days before.

Eddie ran into the house and dropped on his knees beside the girls' bed. He tugged and pushed at the box to move it aside. He wiggled into the darkness under the bed and felt around for his shoes. He grabbed the shoes and sat on his own bed to put them on. He threw back the edge of the blanket to find the shirt and dashed out the door as he swung the shirt over his shoulders. "Guess I'm ready," he said, stopping in front of his father to finish buttoning the shirt.

His dad was leaning against the car eating a piece of the hot frybread. He looked down at Eddie and grinned. "You better get something to eat. It's a long way to town." Eddie ran his hands over the dust on the car fender, making a road with his fingers. He took the fry-bread his mother was holding and walked back to the car. He shifted the bread from hand to hand to cool it. His little sisters were bouncing on the back seat and watching the puffs of dust they made.

Eddie opened the car door, feeling much older and wiser than his sisters. "Okay, get out. Dad and me are going to town." "Eddie thinks he's smart," the older girl chided grudgingly as she slid out of the car.

The little sister slid out behind her, grabbed her hand, and began a sing-song chant. "Eddie thinks he's smart. Eddie thinks he's smart." Together, the girls danced around the car chanting their derision of Eddie. "Dumb girls," he muttered and slammed the door. Eddie put his feet on the dash and curled down in the seat. The sun felt hot through the windshield. The bright sound of a meadow lark came to his ears. The bread in his hand was crisp and satisfying. He had a shirt on his back and shoes on his feet. He was going to town with his dad. The whole world was wonderful to Eddie. He smiled to himself. He felt fine.

It seemed to Eddie as if it took a long, long time to get to town. Sometimes he talked with his dad and sometimes he didn't. When they came to an end of things to say, Eddie climbed over into the back seat for awhile. Then, impatient to get to town, he climbed over the seat again into the front. When the first buildings of the city appeared, Eddie began to bounce on the edge of the seat. Going to town was almost the most exciting thing of the summer for him.

The rodeo was more exciting, and there would be many things to do at the powwow, but he was wonderfully happy to get to go to town. Eddie's dad reached a big hand over and put it on Eddie's head to stop the bouncing. "Whoa, Eddie," he said. "You can't make the car get there any faster that way." Eddie grinned and tried to sit still.

His dad drove to a big building on a busy street near the railroad track. He said he had to take care of some business inside. He told Eddie he would take him up town as soon as he could get back. Eddie was content to wait for a few minutes. He watched the trucks with their big trailers rumble down the street. A switch engine with its cars in tow fascinated him for awhile. He looked at the shiny, new cars. Two pickups went by pulling horse trailers. They made Eddie think of his own little bay horse.

When he thought of his horse, he thought of home. He wondered what his mother was doing. He wondered if his sisters were riding his horse. The car was so hot, and he suddenly felt so alone that he almost wished he was back home again. Just then his dad came. Eddie was glad to go.

When his dad parked in front of a parking meter on Main Street, Eddie put the nickels in it. He just couldn't help being curious about where the money went after he turned the handle. He put both his hands on the meter pole and shook it. He couldn't hear anything jingling. He wondered if the whole pole was full of money.

" You want to come with me, or you just want to look around here?" Eddie's dad asked him. Eddie studied the stores a minute. The variety store was right in front of them. The souvenir store was next door. There was a hardware store, and next to it was a shoe store and saddle shop. Thinking his dad was just going to get some things for his mother, Eddie said, "Guess I'll stay here. Can I have some money?"

His dad grinned at him and reached in his pocket. "Here's a dollar. Maybe you can get something for the girls, too." Eddie's mouth spread into a wide, bright smile. "Stay right close," his dad said. "I'll be back in a bit and I don't want to have to hunt for you."

"Okay," Eddie answered, and put the money in his pocket. His dad started down the street and Eddie went in the variety store. He looked and looked. All the toys were interesting. He felt like touching everything, especially the things that had moving parts. He couldn't decide what to buy. The wind-up monkey drummer looked fine, but he liked the toy truck with the horse trailer, too.

He decided to take the jumping ropes for his sisters and some bubble gum. That would leave about sixty-five cents for himself. Then Eddie found a big water pistol. "Oh, boy, fifty shots," he said, reading the package advertisement to himself. He turned to go and almost bumped into one of the ladies who worked in the store. She looked down at him and moved aside.

Eddie started toward the front of the store, the clerk following him. He picked up six pieces of bubble gum and two candy bars and then went to the cashier. He glanced behind him when he stopped and saw the clerk standing a few feet away watching him carefully. He turned his eyes away and pulled the dollar bill from his pocket. The clerk shrugged her shoulders and walked toward the back of the store.

Eddie left the variety store with the sack of purchases crumpled in his hand. He stopped by the window of the souvenir shop. There were so many little things there that he looked for a long time. He especially liked the bright red velvet on which the souvenirs were displayed. It glowed soft and warm in the afternoon sunlight. The smooth nap reminded him of the shiny, warm shoulders and neck of his little bay horse.

Eddie was in no hurry. He studied the things in the hardware store and walked on to the deep glassed-in entrance to the saddle and boot shop. The saddles caught his eye first. There was one something like the one his dad had. There was another for someone about his size. It was carved on the skirts and fenders, and shiny nickel studs glistened around the edges.

Eddie suddenly saw the boots! They were boys' boots—red and black and beautiful. The bottoms were black and shiny. The toes were low and neat looking. Eddie almost held his breath as he looked at the tops of the boots. They were bright red with designs cut away leaving sparkling white leather beneath. They were carefully and artistically stitched with rows of white thread. Even the finger loops projecting from the tops of the boots were red with white letters on them.

Eddie had never seen anything he wanted more. They looked just the right size. He knew they would look wonderful on him and they would feel better than anything he had ever before worn. Eddie pressed closer to the window. He could almost see himself racing across the flats on the little bay with those black and red boots tucked snuggly against the horse's ribs.

Eddie took a deep breath. He pressed his nose and hands against the window. His hands were damp and sticky. They almost clung to the shiny surface. He could feel his eyelashes brushing the glass. Try though he would, he couldn't get closer to the beautiful boots. His warm breath made little clouds of moisture by his face. 

There was nothing in the world at that moment except Eddie and a pair of red-topped boots. Suddenly, a rough hand grabbed his shoulder and a harsh voice was muttering angrily, "Dirty little Indian. Get your dirty hands off that window." Eddie twisted under the grasp and turned to meet the angry eyes of a woman. Eddie stared unbelieving for a long moment. His dark eyes met squarely the eyes of the woman. His mouth tightened and little wrinkles formed at the corners of his eyes as he narrowed them in defense. He stepped carefully away from her and walked slowly and deliberately to the car. He opened the car door and sat down. He still clutched the brown paper bag with the water gun and jump ropes in it. His mouth was still drawn into a tight line across his face. Eddie could feel nothing. He could hear none of the street noises that surrounded him. But inside he heard the sound of the woman's angry voice repeating and repeating itself. "Dirty little Indian, dirty little Indian." Eddie couldn't shut it out. For the first time Eddie looked at his hands. The backs of them were smooth and brown. Inside they were wet. The woman who had spoken to him was white. The people on the street were white. Eddie felt a new feeling rising within him. If he was a dirty little Indian, they must be ugly old white people. The thought made him feel brave. He tried saying the words aloud. "Ugly old white people." For the first time in his life he felt something close to hatred. His only defense at the moment was the angry, muttering repetition of those words. "Ugly old white people!" Just then his dad came. He opened the door and threw several packages into the rear seat. He looked at the one he had held back, then tossed it in Eddie's lap. For a moment Eddie's thoughts left the bitterness that was boiling inside him. He pulled excitedly at the string that held the box. The string broke easily and Eddie pulled the lid from the box. He pushed back the tissue paper and there, unbelievably beautiful, lay the red-topped boots! Eddie pulled in a big breath. "Oh, boy!" he said. But at that moment the ugly sound of the woman's voice burst into his mind again. "Dirty little Indian." The smile fell from Eddie's face. His hands pulled the tissue paper carefully back over the boots. He put the lid on the box. His dad had waited to watch Eddie's pleasure with the boots. He was surprised to see the boy suddenly act as if he didn't care and rewrap the boots. He shrugged. "Funny kid," he said. He slammed the car door again, started the engine, and they began the long trip home. Eddie held the box on his lap all the way. Inside he felt like a cloudy day. He would be glad to get back to his house, to the sandy creek and the gray smoke fire.

That evening as his mother sat quietly in the dark outside the house, Eddie sat down beside her. He didn't say anything for awhile. At last he said, "Mama?" She reached her hand to him in the darkness and put it on the back of his head. "What?" she answered. He hesitated a moment. "Mama, are we dirty Indians?" She drew in a deep breath. "No, Eddie, we are not dirty Indians. What made you ask that?" "A white woman in town called me that. She told me not to touch her old windows." His mother pulled his head over to her shoulder. "I used to wonder about that, too. But now I know better. Remember those Mormon elders who came to see us? They told us something I never knew. They said that God loves us. We belong to him."

"Those Mormons are white men," Eddie interrupted. "They call us dirty Indians." His mother squeezed him lightly. "No, Eddie. They won't call us that. They call us brother Eddie and sister. They say they know who we are. They say we are Israel."

"What does that mean?" 

"Don't really know yet. But it's something like being from a special tribe. I think they've been sent to help us. Your dad and I like them. They bring a good feeling here. They say the Indians can do great things." Eddie didn't say anything. He liked the Mormons, too.

"Are we Mormons, Mama?" he asked.

"No," she answered, "but I think we will be pretty soon."

"Mormon," Eddie said, "Mormon. I guess I'll be an elder Mormon." He stood up and kicked at the dirt in the darkness with his new boots. "I'm going to bed now," he said, and went into the house.

His mother smiled softly. The night was clean and cool. An owl made his questioning call from the cottonwood trees. The horses in the corral stirred slightly. She heard Eddie sit on his creaking bed. She heard the clicking sound as his shirt buttons hit the floor. The bed squeaked again. There was no sound of boots hitting the floor. She knew Eddie had worn them to bed.

Mickey Goodwin, a writer new to The and a young mother, tells us that she feels grateful and honored to be a winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest "We are an Air Force family who greatly enjoy the variety of experiences that comes to us because of our frequent moves. My husband, Robert H. Goodwin, our six children, and I are members of the Lompoc Second Ward in the Santa Maria Stake, California. My parents are Cecil M. And Eloise C. Hosman who live in Mobridge, South Dakota. Just before coming to California we spent two years in South Dakota where I had the opportunity of serving in the Relief Society Presidency of the Northern Indian Mission. 'Eddie' is probably a direct result of that experience.

My literary accomplishments, to date, consist of a drawer full of unpublished poetry and short stories. I do write a monthly column for our local Air Force wives' magazine. I am very pleased and grateful to have my first real publication in The ."