The Rock—Strewn Road

" Well, it isn't, Tammy. I've got to go to biology now. I'll see you tomorrow." Sue left her friend very bewildered.

Susan hardly heard a word the biology professor said. Tammy just didn't understand. Of course it was impossible just completely to ignore her parents' wishes. For one thing, they were probably right. She could take any of a wide variety of classes, she would be with other members of the Church, the Brigham Young University campus seemed so beautiful from the brochures, she would get to travel almost halfway across the country, see new places, meet new people, broaden her horizons. That was the trouble—new places, new people. She wouldn't know anyone. The campus was so big she would probably get lost. The same feeling of panic again threatened to overwhelm her. She would have to decide soon. Deadlines for applications were coming nearer.

"It just isn't fair to make me decide," she thought. "It would be much easier to go to State. Tammy could be my roommate. If I got lost, at least I'd be lost with someone, and not all by myself. I guess I just don't have much pioneer spirit. Wouldn't Great-grandmother Carter be ashamed of me!"

"Hi, Mom." Susan said, putting her books on the table. "Mr. Johnston wants us to write a biography of somebody, and we have to use something she wrote. Don't we have a diary that Great-grandmother Carter kept?" "Yes, Susie. It's so old, though, please be very careful." "T will, Mom. I'll start right after dinner."

"Susie, have you thought any more about which school? Dad and 1"

"T know, Mom, but I just can't decide. I'll probably be signing up at City College again." "City College is good, or your father wouldn't be teaching there, but we are convinced you need to learn to meet people."

You've known almost everyone at City College since you were in the first grade. We'd like you to be around other young people of the Church. That has been one thing I haven't liked about living in the branch. There just aren't any young people for you to be with." "Yes, Mom, but I just can't face the idea of not knowing anyone. If I could just stay here and never have to go anywhere I'd be perfectly happy."

Susan hurried through her chores to get to work on her assignment. She was really looking forward to it. She had heard many stories about Emmalou Putney Carter. Susan always pictured her as holding off a band of Indians while holding a baby on her hip.

She carefully unwrapped the old volume and almost reverently opened it. Suddenly she saw a face, the face of a young girl. In one corner of the drawing was the inscription "Emmalou Putney, sixteen years."

Susan had seen several old photographs of a sweet, little old lady with white hair piled high on top of her head and very merry eyes. But this was a different person. A serious girl, shy looking, and timid.

Susan began to read. She quickly skimmed the pages until one entry caught her eye.

"April 23, 1844. Papa met some gentlemen today and invited them to supper. They called themselves elders and talked about a new Church. They spoke of things in a way that made them seem so natural. It was very strange. Grandfather said he didn't think there was a word of truth in it, but Papa was very impressed.

" 

"'May 15, 1844. Today something happened I would never want to happen again. Clara will not speak to me. She has remained silent since breakfast. Papa announced that he is going to be baptized by the elders. Grandfather was very angry. He said that if Mama was alive she would never allow such foolishness. Papa asked Clara and me if we would be baptized. Too. Clara said she would get her hair wet and it would never be dry in time for Mercy Phillips' party.

"I want to please Papa, but Grandfather said there is not much good being said about the new Church and Papa has just been deceived.

"'T did promise Papa I would read The Book of Mormon, and that is what made Clara angry. She wanted me to help her iron her petticoats and dress for the party, and curl her hair. But I did promise Papa. This is the most miserable day of my life."

"June 3, 1844. | went to meeting with Papa. They seem like nice people and not at all like what everyone is saying. Clara said it is mortifying to have her own father be a Mormon. Grandfather says they are all lars and thieves and worse. But Papa isn't and those people seemed very nice. The elders who baptized Papa spoke of the authority to act in God's name, and when they said they had that authority I had a very peculiar feeling. I just knew they were telling the truth. When I told Papa he was very happy. He wants me to be baptized, but it would upset Clara and Grandfather and there has been trouble.

"'June 16, 1844. The situation is getting worse. There has been some talk of violence. Papa wants to go to the Mormon city, Nauvoo. It is only three days' journey and I could come back here and visit. But to leave my home and friends? How can | do that? But how can I let Papa go by himself?

"I do not have to choose now. Papa could not leave until after harvest, anyway.

"'June 29, 1844. A rider came through with terrible news. The Mormon Prophet is dead. No one knows what happened. The elders are going to Nauvoo right away. Papa is going, too. He went to Grandfather and settled everything. For Papa's share of the farm, he gets a wagon, team, and supplies, and Clara's needs will be taken care of. She refused to come. I might have, except Grandfather said Papa was risking my neck and that was wicked.

"To even think Papa was wicked! So I said I would go. But I am so frightened. I must choose quickly what to take.

"'Clara and I just cannot stand to be parted. She wants me to stay, and I want her to go. But each has to do what she must. I must go with Papa. It is so hard, but Papa says the Lord commands us to do only what it is possible for us to do. I know I must be brave.

"Papa says it will not be easy, but we will do the best we can."

Susan sat staring at the tear-stained page. The words were whirling around in her mind. She knew the main story of Great-grandmother Carter's life, but it had never seemed a real person had done all that. More of an ideal.

The very picture of courage, facing all the dangers that came her way. This girl wasn't like that. Maybe I thought I knew Great-grandmother Carter, Susan thought, but I surely didn't know Emmalou Putney.

Susan read on. There was the entry of her baptism, how they had found a small house in Nauvoo.

"April 11, 1845. | have met the most wonderful girl. Hannah Carter. She is just my age and a great friend. I feel I have known her all my life. And she is so brave. Yesterday she killed a snake with her hoe. I should have died first. She is keeping the garden so her brother Thomas can work on the temple.

"'May 24, 1845. The temple is finished. Such a glorious day. There is so much joy, surely it is spreading all over the country. Such a beautiful, beautiful day.

"'September 9, 1845. The temple seems to inflame the mobs against us. It is not safe to be out from the city. Papa says not to fear. God will protect us if it is we should live. And if we must give our lives we will be eternally rewarded. I must hold to that.

"'November 13, 1845. Papa and Brother Carter almost have everything ready. We plan to travel together. Two small families are safer together than separate.

"There was a letter from Clara. She has new shoes for a party. She has set her cap for Mercy Phillips' brother and wants to look especially nice.

"'T need a pair of walking shoes, but there has been so much to buy, I will just have to wait.

"'February 21, 1846. We have been preserved from our enemies. The last days in Nauvoo we were constantly under fear of attack. I wanted to hide under the bed. It seems to be afraid shows our faith is weak, that we do not trust the Lord. But now we are safe. It is cold and many are sick, but the Lord is with us because we are doing his will."

I still feel afraid sometimes, but I get on my knees and I receive strength. We must have that.

Susan closed the worn volume. Tears streamed down her cheeks. What am I crying for? Not for Emmalou Putney. She won her battle.