HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 8—Making Every Room a Library—An Invitation to Learning Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: OBJECTIVE: To show that the home which invites the reading of good books will add enrichment to the lives of the family members.

INTRODUCTION A professor once stood in his living room in front of a wall shelved with books and said, "Having these books here in my home has done more for the education—to say nothing for the pleasure—of my family than the whole school system put together." Modern living has in many instances done away with what used to be an integral and vital part of every home—the library. But we have not lost sight of the value of good books in our homes. Now, instead of confining our book space to one room, we literally live with books in every room—that is, we do if we are wise. For one thing, they add a quality of warmth and personality to any room which nothing else can give. Far more important than the decorative value, however, is the influence they exert upon every member of the family both consciously and unconsciously. Not only do they fulfill an actual need in our own lives as parents, but they develop in our children a real liking for reading, a genuine interest in books. Children instinctively love books, and constant contact with them and easy access to them naturally increase this love. As parents, we need to know that reading good books is not only a pleasure; it is an actual need—a mental and spiritual food for the soul. Having books in the home encourages family reading and becomes a source of enjoyment and interest in doing things together. As one young family member put it, "I wonder what families do that don't read books together? It's like not knowing each other's friends."

Our children can widen their world, increase their vocabularies, and learn to communicate intelligently by reading. The more they are exposed to books, and the more available these books are, the more they will read.

To Discuss 1. Do I, as mother and homemaker, have a responsibility to provide a reading background in our home for my children? 2. If I have a lack of interest in books do I allow it to reflect itself in the attitudes of my children?

Where Are Our Books?
1. In the kitchen. A well-known editor of a health and home magazine says, "Every family who wants to take advantage of the best knowledge of our time should be building a nutritional library—the basic books in foods and cookery that give an understanding of this vital area." Every true housewife has her own favorite cookbooks and recipe files. A shelf in her kitchen will keep these in order and in easy reach and, at the same time, add an accent of interest to her surroundings.
2. In the living room. There is nothing which adds a more attractive appearance to the living room than bookshelves filled with interesting and colorful books. These are especially attractive flanking the fireplace or extending across one end of the room between windows or on either side. Books placed between book ends or on end tables and desks are an invitation to family members and friends. The standard Church works are particularly appropriate in such places.
3. In the dining area. In many of our homes the dining area is combined with the living room or doubles as a dining area and family room, and in both situations, books are a welcome addition. However, the dining room is actually the place where the family can bring out the real value of having books in the home in discussing and enjoying together the things they have read.
4. In the bedrooms. Books are comfortable to live with, and they are a Lesson Department welcome addition to any bedroom. They can be placed in any convenient spot—on a bedside table, on a writing desk, or on shelves built for that purpose, sometimes in the headboard as a part of the bed itself. Even the youngest children like to have a bookshelf that they can reach by themselves in their bedroom. This can be moved higher as the children grow, to accommodate more books and equipment in the teenage years. If the children find pleasure and not merely duty in reading books, they will want to live with them. They will take pride in building their own "library" from the books they receive at Christmas or on birthdays or any other special time when books are an ideal gift.
5. In the bathroom. Many homes have bookshelves in the bathroom. There are those who enjoy reading while relaxing in the warm water of the bathtub.

To Discuss Are my children being encouraged to love good books and reading by association with them at home?

CONCLUSION Parents in the home can teach their children, through their constant association with books in their home, that learning is part of the privilege of living and also part of the fun. Whether our children go through life with good books as their friends and companions depends upon us, the mothers—upon our own attitudes toward the importance and use of books in our homes. A home that will have the greatest impact on young minds and which will be remembered as having given the finest incentive toward intellectual, emotional, and spiritual enrichment is the one which holds out to them this constant invitation to learning.