SOCIAL RELATIONS—A Light Unto the World Lesson 8—"That's What They Say, Mama" (Reference: A Light Unto the World, Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1967-68) Alberta H. Christensen Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: OBJECTIVE: To emphasize the responsibility of the mother in fortifying the home against some propagandizing of the commercial world.

INTRODUCTION This lesson acknowledges the valuable service of commercial advertising as a legitimate means of disseminating information. As such, it establishes an important and special relationship between individuals and between groups. The lesson, however, also deals with a negative aspect of some advertising.

It points out a mother’s responsibility to use discrimination in her acceptance of advertising claims and her responsibility to fortify all family members against the biased, even undesirable, advertising of some harmful products. Class leaders will wish to select for full discussion those areas of particular interest and application to their groups.

The purpose of commercial advertising is publicly to remind and to announce; the goal is to sell, either a service or a commodity. Often a new product is being introduced, or the aim of advertising, by stressing particular features, may be to induce more people to purchase an already known commodity. The advertising technique may involve a change of viewpoint, a different procedure, or it may accent an advantageous expenditure of money. As an informant and a reminder, advertising thus renders a vital service and is an asset in today’s accelerated living.

Since the purpose of publicizing a new commercial product is to market that product, the advertising will naturally point out its attractive qualities, ignoring any undesirable features. In this fact lies the misleading and sometimes harmful factor of some commercial advertising. One need only consider the glowing statements made for products which are known to be injurious to man, to realize that the one-sided advertising story is real.

Fortunately, some of the unfavorable features bypassed by advertising are of less concern, affecting only the expenditure of time or money.

In February of 1833, in Kirtland, Ohio, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation which forewarns us as follows: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation. (D&C 89:4.) The scripture continues, enumerating some specific items which are beneficial and some which are detrimental to the well-being and health of man. This lesson is concerned particularly with two of these products which present-day scientific research has proved to have injurious effects upon men; thus confirming a revelation of years ago.

In the words of the scripture we read: And again, tobacco is not for the body, neither for the belly, and is not good for man, but is an herb for bruises and all sick cattle, to be used with judgment and skill. (D&C 89:8).

Interested individuals and groups are attempting to offset the alluring advertisements for tobacco by giving statistics as to its harmful effects. Yet, in spite of these efforts, in spite of increased evidence of medical findings and research warnings, the consumption of tobacco is a rising spiral.

Entrenched economic forces, including growers, manufacturers, retailers, and certain political subdivisions, continue to entice individuals to use tobacco. Those few countries which have banned lesson department advertising are to be commended highly.

Confirming the statement that the producers of tobacco, ignoring the claims of medical research, are increasing their efforts to sell even more of this harmful product is the following statistic:...

The cigarette companies are now spending $300 million in cigarette advertising and the government is only spending two or three million dollars to warn the people against the dangers of cigarettes. (Church News, Deseret News, April 8, 1967.)

Class Involvement
Discuss the following statements:
1. The home can fortify against the enticings of this commercial advertising by stressing that divine counsel is supported by medical research.
2. Junior and senior high schools aid materially when they supply data on harmful effects of tobacco.

Further Involvement Question: How can parents, especially the mother, most effectively counteract the misleading and fallacious images presented to youth through alluring and attractive tobacco advertising? Discuss the following images:
1. The image of luxury-living, through the king-size cigarette.
2. The glamorous image of being sophisticated, socially adequate, and in the "know" group.
3. The image of enjoyable, carefree, boy-girl cigarette relationship.
4. The image of vigorous, robust manhood, in connection with the full, rich flavor of the filter-tip cigarette.

Discussion Statement
The so-called cigarette “improvements” actually acknowledge that there are harmful effects. For example, "Use the filter and be kinder to your throat," "The filter tip means fewer coughs," "it is less irritating, has lasting flavor."

The heading for this paragraph leads us again to the 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, where we read: That inasmuch as any man drinketh wine or strong Drink among you, behold it is not good. And, again, strong drinks are not for the belly, but for the washing of your bodies. (D&C 89:5, 7.)

The alarming rise in the consumption of liquor throughout the world is of concern to those who are aware of the many problems that it creates. It is the concern of highway patrolmen, who would keep the highway free of accident, and of industrialists and manufacturers to the extent that its use may affect the efficiency of labor. It is most certainly the concern of all parents, for they are inseparably associated with the well-being of all family members.

Alcohol consumption should be the concern of all citizens, since all segments of our society are affected by irresponsible actions associated with the human consumption of alcohol.

Class Involvement
Discuss briefly:
1. The intoxicated automobile driver.
2. Man-hours lost to industry through alcohol-induced illnesses.
3. Waste of human dignity and creative potential by the deteriorating influence of alcohol.

Questions
1. To what extent, in your opinion, is commercial advertising of alcoholic beverages responsible for the increased sales?
2. How can the home fortify against the propagandizing that to drink is to be socially elite?
3. When is the teaching moment for children? Is it when the child, recalling an attractive commercial cartoon or catchy slogan, asks about it?

The radio, television, newspaper, poster, magazine, and the billboard are the general media of advertising. Through artistic picture, clever cartoon, message-carrying slogan, and the catchy singing commercial, the purchasing public is made aware of new or improved things to purchase. Through these media the mother is made quickly aware of situations and commodities which may be of profit to her and to her family. She appreciates this fact. She appreciates the commercial advertising that alerts her to reduced clothing prices, special food sales, and advantageous seasonal purchasing in all areas.

Such a barrage of advertising, however, may, at times, be confusing. It forces upon her the need to choose, to be discriminating, to consider and appraise advertising claims, and to look for the values not referred to in the advertising. For example, the new processed foods and complete meals may be time saving and attractively packaged, but many may be more expensive for the family food allowance.

The homemaking lessons of Relief Society stress wise buymanship and counsel women to purchase prudently with the family resources in mind. Suffice it to say in this lesson that: all members of the family, even small children, are involved in the art and science of advertising in today’s complex world, and family relationships may be happily or sometimes adversely affected.

The following small-boy conversation illustrates this fact.
Boy 1: I don't ever like to eat cooked cereal. I want to be a champion.
Boy 2: Me, too; I want to have muscles like.
Boy 3: I always want the big box so I can get the prizes inside.
Boy 4: Which prizes?
Boy 3: The ones with the picture on the outside. When you get a whole set you send for a prize.
Boy 4: Every time I go with my mother to shop, I coax for the box with clown cutouts and magic tricks. She doesn't want to buy it—she says it's too expensive. But I coax and coax; so we do.
Boy 5: I know a kind where you can get fourteen prizes.
Boy 6: We children won't eat anything for breakfast but... Because we like the cutouts on the front. I say, what are they there for, if not to buy? Some advertising would lead our young children to believe that they should have anything that they desire.

Class Involvement
1. Do you consider the foregoing conversation a natural reaction, but one which may alert the mother to a teaching opportunity?
2. How may the mother-child relationship be strengthened by a wise handling of such a situation?
3. Is this example illustrative of situations on other age levels—the adolescent, and even the mother herself? The woman with no children?

APPRaise THE POSSESSION:
Children are not the only individuals who may be strongly influenced by the glowing commercial. This need be "no discredit to the advertising, for the claims made may be valid and desirable. It does, however, call for choice-making, for appraisal, and the challenge sometimes of self-denial. If an adult develops good judgment, is wisely selective, the entire family may profit by her action. If she is not wise, but lets desire for many "things" override need and resources, unhappy, even disastrous situations, may occasionally result.

Question: Is there danger of being possessed by our possessions? Discuss.

Fortunately, there are many guidelines within the framework of Church teachings which may materially assist the mother in being wise and prudently selective. These teachings also may help her to understand the general guidelines.
Class Involvement
1. Putting spiritual values above earthly possessions.
2. Temperance and moderation.
3. Economic security of the family which may be effected by the mother's purchasing choices.

By way of summary and in conclusion, we may say that constructive advertising can be an invitation to abundant, useful living. It can force us to make choices for which we may be eternally grateful. It can lead mothers to valuable teaching moments. (See Lesson Helps.)

For the mother who, seeing commercial advertising, is led to study the written teachings of the Church, it may help answer the unvoiced question of the son who looks wonderingly at the tobacco ad, or the smaller child who, recalling a TV cartoon or a singing commercial, asks, "Why don't we do?... Why don't we have? They're fun and they're good! Anyway, that's what they say, Mama."

For Home Doing
Appraise your relationship to commercial advertising and the valuable lessons it may teach.