[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: A Call to the Women of the Church]

EDITORIAL Entered at second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto  Charity Never Faileth.  Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. JANUARY, 1917. No. 1. A CALL TO THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH We call upon our officers and members throughout the Church to give serious consideration to the following letter, recently addressed by the Presidency of the Church to the General Boards of Relief Society, Young Ladies' _ Mutual Improvement Association, and Primary Association. Dear Sisters: We feel that there exists a pressing need of improvement and reform among our young people, specifically in the matter of dress and in their social customs and practices. Our women are prone to follow the demoralizing fashions of the world; and some of the daughters of Zion appear to vie with one another in exhibitions of immodesty and of actual indecency in their attire, wholly forgetful of the precepts of the Lord and the counsels of his servants, and seemingly oblivious in this respect to the promptings and duties of true womanhood. Many of our youth of both sexes are fast approaching a state of depravity in dancing, and in their feverish pursuit of frivolous and dissipating pleasures. We are grateful in knowing that only a fraction of our people are seriously affected by the deadly contagion of Babylon; but those already iofected among the Latter-day Saints are all too many. The conditions call for prompt, determined, and persistent action, lest the standard of morality and spiritual health in our community be further impaired. We call upon you. as the chief officers of a great and influential auxiliary within the Church, to give this matter immediate consideration, and to make it the subject of specific effort and systematic missionary labor among the members of your organization and with the people generally throughout the Church. See that your own officers first, and then that your members show by their own example the sincerity of their efforts toward the accomplishment of the purposes of this special mission to which we call you. We advise that you work in harmony with the officers of our other auxiliary organizations; and with this co-operative course in mind, we are sending this appointment concurrently to the General Boards of the Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association. For the information  of the General Boards of the Sunday School, the Y. M. M. I. A., and the Religion Class, a copy of this letter will be sent to each of those Boards with the request that they do all within their power to assist in the correction of the evils herein referred to. Inasmuch as one of the most important phases of this reformatory labor has to do with our girls and women, we advise that for the present the General Boards that are composed of women work together as a co-operative unit. You are requested therefore to appoint three of your number as members of a committee; and this committee, consisting of nine members. should straightway set about preparing a plan for effective operation. Let the General Board of the Relief Society determine upon and notify the other organizations of the time and place of the first meeting of the committee, at which first meeting the committee may organize itself by electing a chairman and other necessary officers. We desire to be kept ioformed of your progress in operating under this appointment. With prayerful wishes that the Lord will give you in full measure the spirit of this ministry, and that joy through success will attend your efforts, we are, Your Brethren, Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose. In accordance with the instructions given in this letter, a committee was at once appointed, three members from each Board, who should, under the direction of the Boards, put into operation measures leading to improvement along the lines mentioned.  
 An organization was effected, a Chairman, Vice-chairman, Secretary, and Assistant Secretary appointed, and a name selected  that of "Social Advisory Committee." These sisters first gave their attention to the subject of dress, as one in which the women and girls of our organizations are vitally concerned. Acting upon the suggestion that our "own officers first, and then that our members show by their example the sincerity of their efforts," a resolution was prepared and unanimously adopted by the three Women's Boards. This resolution was to the effect that each member should be willing to live in harmony with the teachings of the Church in the matter of properly clothing the body. We now earnestly solicit the co-operation of all our women officers and members in this important movement. The responsibility for conditions in our midst which make necessary these instructions from the First Presidency rests upon every women in the Church. No one can evade it. Officers first, and then members should show by example and precept that they gladly join hands with the Authorities of the Church in the endeavor to overcome the evils which exist. The gospel of Jesus Christ offers so much to its recipients that all Latter-day Saints should delight to cooform their lives to its teachings. Its requirements are not harsh and should not be irksome. Our women who have been privileged to enter the House of the Lord have received incomparable blessings  blessings which are a source of joy and comfort here on the earth, and which shall endure throughout eternity. Does any woman in Zion undervalue these rich privileges? Will she not gladly make any sacrifice to be worthy of them? Our young women and girls should strive to understand the teachings of the gospel with regard to dress and conduct, and to live in accordance therewith. In the guise of fashion, many false ideas of beauty have come among us, and the habit of "being in the style" has caught and carried many of us much farther than we realized. Let us remember that the body is a gift from God and that it should be kept sacred. Our girls should be instructed and helped to recognize the value of, and the protection that comes with modesty in dress and conduct. Not one of them can afford to sacrifice such protection for the sake of fashion. We recommend to stake and local officers that this editorial be read in the meetings of our organizations throughout the Church. Social Advisory Committee of Relief Society, Young Primary Ladies' Mutual Association. Improvement Association,