[Vol4 | January 1917 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: High Cost of Living]

high cost of living, it is quite necessary for the good housewife to understand the value of foods, so that in serving a meal, she may get good, nourishing foods, without buying the most expensive. When serving a pound of macaroni, we may be assured of having a much larger amount of nutriment than in a pound of beef steak, and feel also assured that we are saving money as well. We may feel, too, another satisfaction from its use in this, that we are helping to sustain home industry, as we have a splendid grade of macaroni made here at home. A fine variety of spaghetti is also manufactured in Utah, and serves for many useful dishes. Macaroni is a very convenient and easily prepared article of food, and while it is somewhat the same as our bread, it is cooked and served so differently, that it furnishes us a great variety of food. Macaroni should always be cooked in boiling hot, salt water for 30 to 40 minutes before it is used; and, combined with other articles of food, such as grated or sliced cheese, tomatoes, milk, oysters, fish, corn, etc., it makes a delicious dish. We give here a few tested macaroni recipes: Escalloped macaroni with corn. % package macaroni. 1 pt. corn. 1 1/2 cups milk. 2 tablespoons butter. Break macaroni into one inch lengths. Boil 40 minutes in salt water, throw into cold water and drain. Season the corn with salt and pepper, add milk and butter, mix with macaroni, and bake in oven until brown. Cheese may be added for variety, or a little chopped parsley. Macaroni Italienne. 2 lbs. beef. 3 strips of salt pork. 2 sliced onions. l/2 cup mushrooms. 1 quart tomatoes. Yi lb. macaroni. 4f tablespoons grated cheese. Dash cayenne pepper and salt. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 27 Cut up beef, salt pork and onions. Place in kettle on the back of stove to cook about Y hour. Then add tomatoes, mushrooms, and simmer for about two hours. Cook macaroni in boiling water 30 minutes, and drain. Put in buttered baking dish, and add all the other ingredients, then season with salt and pepper, and add a layer of grated cheese on top. This is most excellent; try it. To spaghetti which has been boiled in salt water twenty minutes, add one can of tomatoes which have been strained. Cut one green pepper, one red pepper, and take three tablespoons full of sugar. Salt to taste. Add spaghetti to juice of tomatoes, then add 4 tablespoons olive oil or sweet butter just before serving. Boil one-half package of macaroni, drain, and put one layer of macaroni, and alternate with grated cheese in a baking dish, until all the macaroni is used up. Place on top a thick layer of cheese, cover with milk, season with salt and pepper, and bake one-half hour in quick oven. Cold fish may be used with macaroni, instead of the cheese, thus forming another variety of macaroni dishes to be enjoyed by the family. Macaroni and oysters. 1/4 lb. macaroni. 1 can oysters or about 3 dozen fresh oysters. 1/2 cup cream sauce. 1/2 cup of cream. */2Cup grated cheese. 1/2 tablespoon chopped green pepper. Boil macaroni 40 minutes, drain liquor from oysters. Boil and season with salt and pepper. Put in baking dish, placing a layer of macaroni, then oysters; alternate until all has been used. Then sprinkle with chopped pepper, cover with the liquor from the oysters, and cream sauce. Add cheese last, and bake for about 25 minutes. THE MEDICINAL AND HYGIENIC VIRTUES OF THE LEMON. If the testimony of the Sicilian Citrus Chamber is given due consideration in determining the status of a lemon, it deserves an important place in the list of first aids. According to the authority mentioned, the lemon aids are chiefly medicinal and hygienic. Its juice is of value in treating diphtheria and gout. For ordinary colds, it is a great specific. It will cure slight wounds and chilblains. The juice of several lemons taken every day will help to 
 cure rheumatism and prove an antidote for diabetes; small slices applied to corns will ease the'pain. As a cleansing agent and beautifier, the reputation of the Union soars still higher. The juice whitens the hands, improves the complexion, helps, if anything can, to remove freckles. In the culinary department, it ranks with salt and sugar in general usefulness, and as a furniture polish its oil is beyond reproach. And yet to be dubbed "a lemon" is considered uncomplimentary! A Quickly made Silver-Plating Powder. A good silver-plating power can be made of chloride of silver, 3 oz. ; salt of tartar. 6, oz. ; prepared chalk, 2 oz. ; common salt, 3 oz. Mix well. NOTES Science is doing so much for the woman in her house labors that it would seem impossible to offer any new short-cut in time or in domestic work, and yet, this is exactly what has been done through the invention of one of our Utah boys. , He has devised a cold water washer which will take any ordinary clothes, and especially babies soiled napkins and handkerchiefs, GATES COLD WATER WASHER HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 29 and whirling them about, without paddle or heat, cleanse them perfectly. The invention is a simple galvanized tin affair in which the water is forced on a tangent from the water tap and the force thus generated whirls the clothes round and round and round, till they are thoroughly cleansed. Dirty clothing, such as underwear and bed linen, needs boiling, but the young inventor declares, and really proves, that such clothing may be dropped dry into boiling suds, left for 20 minutes and then dipped into this machine without wringing, when the clothing is perfectly cleansed of dirt and suds and comes out immaculately clean and spotless. Only one wringing is needed and that the last process of all. The clothes are dipped into the boiler without wringing, dipped out without wringing, out of the machine and then wrung once and hung on the line. Women of long experience who are using the machine and who recommend it heartily, are: Mrs. Julina L. Smith, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Augusta W. Grant, Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe. who all declare that washing has lost its terrors. A child can use the contrivance, and the whole washing can be done in the bath room over the bath-tub when the clothes are not sufficiently soiled to need boiling. We are glad to recommend any labor-saving device to our readers, and any one who wishes further information  may address The Gates Manufacturing Co.. 672 North First West Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. NOTICE TO AGENTS. In sending in new lists please write names of old subscribers as they were sent in last year, and as they appear on the margin of their Magazine. Also state on lists whether they are old or new subscribers.