[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | June | Issue: 24 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORTS.
PAYSON.
	THE Annual meeting of the two
branches of the Relief Society of Payson
met today in the meeting house; after the
opening exercises, President M. A. Hardy
of the 1st ward, stated that this was a
special meeting, to commemorate the
organization of the Relief Society in Payson;
and to present a small tribute of respect to
the retired officers of the old organization.
	The secretary of each ward read a
statistical and financial report of the respective
society represented. A very interesting
programme was presented, consisting of
singing, speeches from the brethren and
sisters, and reading of poetical selections,
composed for the occasion, by Charles
Brewerton and Almeda Snyder.
	The following resolutions of respect were
read by President Colvin.
	In presenting this testimonial of respect
to the late presidency, of the Relief Society
of Payson, we desire it should be under-
stood, that we do this to express our good-
will; that we realize that a great deal of
good to the community, has resulted from
their labors, in connection with the sisters
of the Relief Society; and the blessings of
the Lord attendant on their labors, in
connection with the members of the Relief
Society and the blessings of the Lord at-
tendant on their labors.
	We realize that they have done a great
deal of good, filled their positions with
credit to themselves, to the community, and
to the church of which they form an honor-
able part.
	This expression of good will, we hope
will be acceptable to and kindly received by

[Column 2]
them, it is the desire of the sisters who have
prepared this memorial.

Committee.
ELIZABETH D. LANT,
ISABELLA FINLAYSON,
JANNETT TANNER,
ELLEN SENIOR,
JOSEPHINE PETERSON.
	After the meeting adjourned, the retired
officers and present incumbents, together
with the bishopric and a few invited friends
repaired to the home of Sister Jannett
Tanner, and there did ample justice to an
elegant repast, after which a very pleasant,
social time was spent. All present voting
it a perfect success.
	The only thing to mar the pleasure, was
the severe illness of Sister Lant, one of the
committee, which illness proved fatal next
day, as she passed to her long rest, mourned
and missed by all.
M.A. Hardy, President.
Maggie Wignall, Sec’y.

