[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | June | Issue: 24 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society Conference of this
Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City on Friday June
30th, meetings commencing at 10 a. m.
and at 2 p. m. It is desirable that there
should be representatives from all the
branches in the county as there will be
interesting matters presented and important
business to be transacted. There certainly
should be a large attendance at this delight-
ful season of the year. Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne who has been absent at the World’s
Fair in Chicago and also visited New York
City, will have many pleasant things to
speak of, that will be of special interest.
	OUR sisters and the women of Utah
generally do not realize and appreciate the
value and importance of the EXPONENT or
they would certainly make a greater effort
to sustain it, even though times are hard
and there is a depression in silver. To
have a paper in which you can set forth
your own views and make a record of your
own work as a society or as individuals, to
have it engraven in a way that it can be
handed down to posterity and live after
those have passed away, who are partici-
pants therein is worthy of some sacrifice
even if that were necessary. The great
benefit the EXPONENT has been in various
ways is inestimable, and now that a new
volume is to begin, those who have the best
interests of this people, and of the organiz-
ations at heart should renew their diligence
to keep up the subscriptions and add there-
to.
	WE PUBLISH in this issue notices of the
meetings of our Associations held in
Chicago from the leading daily papers of
that city, that our readers may know what
some of the comments were. In July 1st
we shall give a more extended notice of the
meetings, and we wish the sisters to com-
prehend the fact that though it may seem
a small affair in itself, yet it will go into the
history of the great Congress, and be on
record and circulated all over the world.
It was an unprecedented opportunity and

[Column 2]
there never was before in the history of the
world such a gathering of women, as the
World’s Congress of Representative
Women assembled on that wonderful oc-
casion. That it presages advancement for
all women in the future who can doubt that
has watched the signs of the times in
the nineteenth century?

	THE MEETINGS of the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society and of the Young
Ladies’ National M. I. A. held in the Art
Institute in Chicago were well attended and
as satisfactory and successful as the most
sanguine could have anticipated, consider-
ing the number of meetings held in the
building on the same day, and the two con-
gresses proper, that were held every morn-
ing and evening. It would be impossible
to give a description of the Woman’s Con-
gress, to one who had not seen for herself,
and even those who were there could not
see or hear all, try as they might; the great
difficulty being where to go to hear the
most and the best, when twenty and thirty
meetings were going on at the same time,
and many of them being addressed by dis-
tinguished speakers. No other Congress is
likely to be so complicated or so fascinating
as this first one was for various reasons,
though these Congresses of thought, ideas
and opinions will continue the entire six
months.
	THE Book of Poems mentioned in a
former issue of our paper has been finished
and three copies forwarded to Chicago. It
is something to be proud of and every wo-
man in Utah should have a laudable pride
in the work. It is very handsome and
those who have seen it in the Woman’s
Building, are gratified to place it on ex-
hibition; Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury to
whom the book is dedicated is delighted
with its beautiful appearance. The decor-
ating is in the native flowers and each one
is suited to the poem as nearly as possible.
The INVOCATION by Eliza R. Snow with
which the volume opens is illustrated with
Columbines. The poem DESERET by
Augusta Joyce Crocheron ‘the valley’s soli-
tude’ ‘At Evening’ Emmeline B. Wells,
Evening Primroses, Heard in the Storm,
M. A. Y. Greenhalgh ‘A shower of song
swept by,’ ‘Western Wilds,’ Emily Hill
Woodmansee Wild Poppies, ‘The Stolen
Sunbeam,’ Sarah E. Carmichael, Golden
Rod, Memorial Day, Hannah T. King
‘in pendages of woe’ ‘Isabella of Castile,’
Ellen B. Ferguson, ‘Columbianum, The
Sego Lily, Lula Greene Richards, Sego
Lilies, Violets,, Rhoda Celestia Nash,
‘Violets, The National Emblem, Painted
Cup, Yarrow and Blue-bell, My Heart,’
Esther A. Bennion; ‘Wild Geraniums,
Hope,’ Sarah E. Russell ‘There are
shady nooks, My Castle in the Air,’ Mell
C.Woods; ‘the structure into beauty
grew,’ Cactus Blossoms,’Julia A. Mcdon-
ald, ‘Cactus, A Fragment,’ Mary J. Tan-
ner; ‘Ivy, Longing, Josephine Spencer,
Wild Roses,‘My Mother’s Flowers,’ Reba
Beebe Pratt; ‘Sweet Peas,’ ‘Truth,’ Hannah
Cornaby; ‘Zuchnaria,’ ‘Memorial Hymn,’
Rebecca Palfrey Utter; ‘Forget-Me-Nots,
The River,' Lucinda W. Dalton,‘its banks and
its glades,’ ‘Fragments,’E. B. Wells,Sarah
E. Carmichael, Hannah T. King, Eliza
R. Snow, Josephine Spencer; ‘the giant
hills, Butter Cups, the busy knell, Fan-
cy’s Greeting,’ Annie D. Stevens, ‘Wild
Clover,' ‘Resignation,’ Belle M. Jonhson,
‘the mountain’s rugged brow,’ The
Mother Pioneer,’ Ellen Jakeman; ‘Sun

[Column 3]
flowers,’ ‘Ballad of Lilies,’ Genevieve
Lucile Brown; ‘Lilies,’ Sonnets on the
Virgin Mary,’ Ruby Lamont; ‘Wild
Marguerites,’‘Christmas Night,’ E. R.
Shipp; ‘Wild Grape,’ The Message of the
Pines,’ Mary Grant Major; ‘Pines and
Lilacs,’ ‘An Unanswered Query,’ Aretta
Young; ‘Baby Blue Eyes,’ ‘Life in Death,’
Nevada V. Davis; ‘Everlasting, The
Spirit of Sleep,’ Julia Bowring Maltese;
‘Poppies, A Twilight Reverie,’ Queenie
Furguson; Dog-tooth Violets, Utah, Ruth
M. Fox, Astragalus Utahensis.


