[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: FOURTH BIRTHDAY. | Author: Unknown]

		FOURTH BIRTHDAY.

Mother in Israel, honored most, and best!
Of Saint, or woman, all the noblest traits possessed;
A mind and heart, innately pure, chaste and refined,
Such as Dame Nature scarcely ever has combined;
Sound in thy judgment, in thy faith firm and sincere,
In womanly perfection, almost, without a peer.
Under the prophet's hand ordained, and set apart,
To bless, to counsel, and instruction to impart
To all, who in humility, thy blessing seek,
To comfort those who mourn, strengthen the weak.
Thy words are precious, and should cherished be,
As pearls of wisdom, rich with grace and charity;
Within thy soul, a clear and living foutain flows.
Diffusing light and peace, content and calm repose.
Yet through afflictions dark and deep, thy path has lain.
Thy bosom hath been pierced, with keenest, sharpest pain.
And thou, in meekness, patience, and the fear of God,
Acknowledged still His hand, beneath the chastening rod;
Trusting the promise, by revelation given,
A testimony unto thee, of thy reward in heaven.
A widow, many long and lonely years, hast been,
Protected, strengthened, comforted by the "Unseen;"
Whose hand has led thee, and Whose voice is clear;
Who to the widow's prayer; still lends a listening ear;
Thy hands have ministered unto the prophet's need,
In days when friends were few, and thou, a friend indeed;
Raised up, inspired as it were, to help in ushering forth
Those principles, which in their embryo and birth,
Struggled against tradition, and the creeds of men,
At fearful odds; to bring the priesthood back again.
Honored forever be thy name, for truest worth;
And hallowed the propitious day, that gave thee birth,
Where'er thy name is known, they speak thy praise;
All womankind should strive to emulate thy ways.
A christian true art thou, in thought, in word, in deed,
Yet for the weak and erring, thy soul would pitying plead;
Forgetful of self, thou feelest another's woe,
And with a bounteous hand doth charity bestow;
Thy virtues bright shall shine in an immortal wreath
Crowning thee victor, even at the gates of death.
Blessings upon thy head, thou more than mother here,
Teacher and friend to me most truly, near and dear.
Our hearts desire for thee, more than we can express,
Long life, true joy, and an eternal happiness,
With thy belov'd companion, who has gone before
And waits to welcome thee to that immortal shore;
Forever re-united in those close and tender bonds,
Where soul to soul congenial corresponds.
Of joy and rapture sweet, to count thy sufferings o'er,
Where love eternal dwells, and partings are no more.
	Dec. 26th, 1874.						B. B.


[Column 1]
