[Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon]

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon (\N November twenty-sixth, Mr. And Mrs. Heber Pehrson, of Salt Lake City, celebrated their sixty- — first wedding anniversary.
Their twelve sons and daughters were born in Fairview, Utah. (CHARLOTTE WHITTON, fiftyfive, is the first woman to become mayor of a large Canadian city, in this case, the capital, Ottawa. L¥Ucx SMITH (Mrs. Thomas B.) Cardon, of Logan, Utah, former Relief Society general board member, celebrated her hundredth birthday on January fifth. She is still mentally alert and delightful. She enjoyed a wonderful party, receiving telegrams and floral remembrances from many Church and civic Officials. Her own ward Relief Society organization sent a hundred red roses.
Seven of her eleven children are living, and fifty-nine grand, great, and great-great grandchildren. EMMA DUNN KING, of Wendell, Idaho, great-granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt, has published articles and poetry, teaches Relief Society classes, and has been elected National Committeewoman of the Young Democratic Clubs of Idaho.  C-> EDITORIAL 9 

VOL.
 A TMlessage to Reliof Society ITH the return of Anniversary Day each year, Relief Society women the world over are led to contemplate anew the divine origin and mission of this great woman's auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. We are led to consider our individual responsibilities toward it, and we resolve in our hearts, perhaps, to measure up more fully to what is expected of us. The work of Relief Society is manifold and great, the mission of the Society divine. The prophets of the Lord, with inspired vision, have pointed the path and directed the course of the Society since the days of its founding. Said the Prophet Joseph Smith: "This Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." President Brigham Young, referring to its functions, specified: "These Societies are for the improvement of our manners, our dress, our habits, our methods of living." President Lorenzo Snow, directing the Society along educational lines, declared: "The Society should deal with subjects that tend toward the elevation and advancement of women in all lines of thought and action that benefit humanity." President Joseph F. Smith, referring to the mission of Relief Society, said: "It is not designed to look only after _ the poor and the needy as to their bodily necessities, but it is also intended to look after the spiritual,  mental, and moral welfare of the mothers and daughters in Zion, and all who are engaged or interested in female work." President Heber J. Grant defined the Society as a "service institution," saying, "This institution is built upon service." President George Albert Smith, addressing a Priesthood session of a_ general Church conference, referred to the work of Relief Society as follows: "Through that great organization, the Relief Society, begun by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was given to womankind the dispensation of representing the Lord, in their way, as daughters, as wives, as mothers, and as representatives of their kind in all the world." From our present beloved First Presidency have come impressive words. At the general conference in 1950, President David O. McKay emphasized the growing power and influence of Relief Society and urged "that increased attention be given and more intensified efforts put forth to maintain and preserve the dignity of motherhood... To perpetuate the truth that home is the true foundation upon which is built the structure of true civilized Christian society." President Stephen L Richards, speaking to us in our last general conference, said: "Tve always said that if two things in this Church were right everything else would be right. The Priesthood and the home are those two things.