["The Least of These" — Third Prize Story by Margery S. Stewart]

LEAST OF THESE" angry, because she had asked such a simple thing as that. She pointed to the mysterious ' black letters, quite high, under the picture. "What is that word?"
Timothy looked at the word. He knew it could mean only one thing in the world and he began to tremble, the sickness came over him. "There is no one here but you and me," said Miss Nora gently, "and I'll give you twenty guesses if you like, even though I know you know what it means.". ",... Football"" He hunched his shoulders, but there was no derisive laughter about him, there was only quietness and the purring of the cat on the window sill and Miss Nora's low chuckle., "That's what it is, 'Timothy. Football." She rumpled his hair. TIMOTHY looked at the word as he would look at a friend. It was a friendly little word with its curves and round letters, not hard and cold and mocking like the others had been. "Football," he said and touched it with his finger. "But the other words are real hard." "No," said Miss Nora.: "We will open the gate, very gently, here," she rubbed his head, "and the words will come in one by one." "But reading makes me sick at my stomach," he protested. "It is fear,' Miss Nora said, "I will help you overcome the fear."
Timothy could hardly wait to get home.
Everything would be different because of this day. But Rex, his older: brother, the smart one, had just bought a new suit and everyone was admiring it. 155 "Go clean the basement, Timothy," his mother called, when she heard him come in. But Timothy edged into the living room. "I have a new teacher," he said, "a private one." "T know," his father said, getting ready to go back to the office. He had driven Rex home. "See that you behave yourself or it will be the worse for you." But his father looked at Rex all the time he was speaking. 'Timothy knew it was because Rex delighted his father, and he, Timothy, was like a thorn in his father's eye. It did not hurt him any more. It had become a.
Natural thing. "Run along, dear," his mother said. "I'm glad you like your new teacher. Do the driveway for me, too, I'm having visitors tomorrow."
Timothy went slowly downstairs. All the jubilance was gone out of the day. The great doors of loneliness had closed upon him again.
Just as.
They were trying to close on him now, in church. "Don't submit to it," Miss Nora kept saying. "Overcome it. There's a great treasure for you in church. It might be different now, Timothy."
Timothy looked down at his shabby trousers, castoffs from Rex.
Perhaps if he came to church all dressed up, it would be different. But he always looked like this, clothes too large or too small, and his great hands spreading over his knees like hams. He stuffed them in his pocket as the bishop stepped to the pulpit. THEY sang a song he liked, "Shall the Youth of Zion Falter?"
Timothy started to sing, 156 but his voice sounded strange all alone on the first three rows. "He looked behind him. All the benches around him and behind him were filled. 'The people were like a forest. He longed with a dreadful aching to be lost among them, another casual tree, not like this, like a strange, tormented bird on the farthest branch. He was glad when the song was over and he could sit | down again. He bowed his head for the prayer. But in spite of himself, a slow anger stirred within him at Miss Nora for making him come, for making him promise that as long as one _ person spoke to him, he would continue to come. He straightened. No one had even nodded to him yet, so perhaps he wouldn't have to come again after tonight. If Mom and Dad came, it would be a cinch, but they had long ago given up attending church. He kicked his feet out straight. It was easy for someone like Miss Nora to go to church. She loved it. She was happy there, with people all around her, loving her, being glad for her presence.
When the sacrament was passed, he took it carefully, as Miss Nora had told him to do. He bowed his head and tried to reach out in his mind to that day upon the cross. He couldn't understand it all. But he felt a bond between the Man who had been spat upon and smitten' and himself. He knew how Jesus had felt, Timothy thought, because he had been the center of that cruel circle many times himself... The children dancing around him, mocking him, and the  terror closing his mind, making him appear more stupid than he was. But he wasn't stupid. Not any more. Now he knew how to read.' Miss Nora had taught him. He knew the meaning of every word he looked at, except the very long and hard ones, and Miss Nora said even many brilliant people had to stop and think when they came to hard words. He was aware suddenly of the speaker of the evening, a returned missionary from Hawaii. He was a tall, blonde young man, with a thin, gentle face. He had been stationed in the leper colony at Molokai.
Timothy leaned forward, utterly forgetful of himself, his attention riveted on the speaker. He heard faintly the people behind him murmuring in sympathy when the missionary told of the little group of lepers shut off from the world by the terrible sickness of their flesh.
Timothy thought suddenly, I know how they feel. I know just how they feel when people shrink away and are afraid. He was glad when the missionary told how they helped one another. I'd like to go there, Timothy thought, I'd like that fine. HE deacons on the first row made a small commotion and Timothy looked over there. Ing. | At me?
Timothy wondered. He made an uncertain, fumbling salute with his right hand. The smile faded on Jack's face, he said something to one of the.
Other boys, and they looked Timothy's way and laughed. He - saw Jack looking his way and smil- "THE LEAST OF THESE" Now Timothy could not wait for the last song to be sung, the closing prayer said. He would get out of this place and never come back. He crowded up the aisle, but it was too tightly packed to get through. He had to bide his time with the rest. He looked straight ahead. No one seemed to be looking his way. His hands were sweating and his heart knocking under his shirt.
They probably thought he was dumb to come.
They were probably hating him for coming.
Perhaps they didn't think he belonged in their beautiful new church. He reached the doors and the sweet smell of April flowed into his lungs. 'Ten steps to the sidewalk and he'd be through with church for the rest of his life.
Suddenly someone put a hand on his arm and drew him back.
Timothy wheeled about, angry and afraid. It was the returned missionary. "Hi, fellow," he said, "I noticed you when I was talking. You really seemed interested." "T was," Timothy blurted. "You made it sound sound " He stood helplessly reaching for a word. "I brought back some _ kodachromes," the missionary said. "Come over some night, I'll show them to you." "Thanks..."
Timothy said. He broke away and ran. He ran down the street, past his own house, running and running into the night. He could not outrun the tears on his face. Why am I crying, he wondered, because one guy spoke to me? Do I have to bawl because one old dumb guy speaks to me? But the tears flowed faster and faster, and the lump inside him did 157 not dissolve. It pained more than the time he had broken his leg. He ran to Miss Nora's house and stopped. But only the porch light was on. 'That meant she wasn't home.
When he saw the darkened windows, Timothy knew he had to see Miss Nora. He had to be with her just a few minutes, so she would help him to get back to that calm, quiet room where he could do anything, amount to great things if he tried long and hard enough.
Maybe she's in church. He went down the street and over two squares and found her meetinghouse. It was an older building, but beautifully kept, the April flowers, daffodils and tulips bloomed under the tall, lighted lamps. The services were just ending. - First a man came out, then boys catapulted down the stairs like noisy rockets, then girls danced their graceful way to the sidewalk, and then the older ones came. Miss Nora came. She was all alone. She smiled and spoke to a group of people, and they nodded back. Somehow, Timothy had expected to see her escorted out with trumpets and banners. It was a shock to see her come out like this, so small, so bent, and so alone. Two girls sauntered past 'Timothy.
They looked up and saw Miss Nora. "There's my piano teacher," one said angrily, "I sure hate her." "Me, too" said the other. She makes you work too hard."
Timothy stood very still. Hate Miss Nora? How could anyone hate a woman as wise and kind as she?
They just didn't understand her. She had opened the door of his prison and set him free. He reached 

158  out to the girls, wanting to explain, and dropped his hand.
People just didn't understand people. The great truth rocked him.
They didn't know what was inside each other... The wonderful things Miss Nora carried in her heart and in her beautiful mind, her gentleness... The misery in himself. If they just knew each other, like he knew Miss Nora, they wouldn't pass with such cold, tight smiles, everyone afraid to let anyone else know how much they needed just words from each other, and little friendly pats, and good, firm handshakes when they met. He was crying again. He stepped back into the shadows.
What was the matter with him, anyway? A big gook.
Bawling every five minutes for nothing at all.
Just because people were the way they were. But Miss Nora stumbled and Timothy blundered out of the shadows to take her elbow and steady her. "These foolish shoes," she said, "when will I learn I'm an old lady and wear something becoming to my years." She held his arm. "Was it was it nice at your ward, Timothy?" "It was wonderful," he said. "There was a guy from Hawaii, a returned missionary...
Wants me to come over to his house and see some pictures." She did not speak at all. She did not answer him. But when they reached the corner arc light, Timothy saw her face was wet with tears. Now why should she be crying, he wondered, when I feel real good about everything.
Real good. I feel strong and... And like I knew something more than lots of other guys. Snow Poem Contest in 1950.
Concerned with their problems.
Presented in its pages tion." Margery S. Stewart (Mrs. Russell S. Stewart), Salt Lake City, Utah, is well known to readers of the Magazine. She was awarded the first prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1947 for her story "The Return," and her poem "The Broken Day" received the third prize award in the Eliza R. In addition to many other short stories and poems, Mrs.
Stewart has written two serials for the Magazine: "Joanna" (1949) and "Through This Door" (concluded in January 1952). Mrs.
Stewart is a member of several literary organizations and workshops. She has won a number of prizes in The Deseret News Christmas story poem contests, including the 1951 award for her story recent honor to come to her has been the inclusion of her poem "Song for a Daughter" (first published in Good Housekeeping Magazine) in the anthology Poetry Awards of 1951, a collection of some of the outstanding poems of the year published by the University of Pennsylvania Press. | With reference to her story "The Least of These" and her present activities, Mrs.
Stewart writes: "Since coming in contact with one or two of the youngsters who are like the young boy in my story, I have been much ope thing of their great need for love and friendship in this story.... The Relief Society Magazine is very dear to. Me, and I treasure the wisdom and beauty. Our daughter Sandra is now in her first year of high school, and our son Russell, Jr. Is in the first grade. I am teaching the Blazer Boys in Primary and working in the Mutual Improvement Associaand "The Travelers." A I have managed to convey some-