[Editorial: A Message to Relief Society by Belle S. Spafford]

EDITORIAL You, [Relief Society] of course, are chiefly responsible for one of them, or largely so, and you can help infinitely in the other one." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., addressing a Relief Society general conference in 1949, told the sisters: "The Relief Society is the handmaid of the Priesthood of God in carrying on his work for the salvation of men." He prayed that God might give us the vision of the true homemaker, that we might be able to save by this course not only Zion, but the world. "And that is your destiny, and ours," said President Clark, "to save the world."
Pondering upon these statements of our prophets, we are led to exclaim, what a mighty and noble mission has been given to the women of the Church through Relief Society! The call to service in this Society comes not to one or two or the few, nor to any selected group, but to all women of the Church.
Membership in Relief Society should not be regarded as a matter of choice, but rather as one of obligation. Every Latter-day Saint woman, according to her circumstances and talents, has a responsibility toward the work of this organization. Sometimes, women are led to excuse themselves for inactivity in the Society.
Sometimes mothers with young children postpone the day of their affiliation, feeling affiliate when their children are small would work a_ hardship upon them and perhaps entail neglect of the children. President Lorenzo Snow, addressing the sisters at Saltair July 9, 1901, referred to this attitude saying, "It 'should lend to this that to. 'shall last. 77 might be thought by some that the labors connected with membership in the Relief Society would cause those 'sisters who belong to it to neglect their household duties. But this is not so. I will venture to say that the best wives and mothers and — the most efficient housekeepers among us are members of Relief Society." _ Through the years, thousands of women who have commenced acticity in the Society when their children were young have borne sincere and grateful testimony to the fact that their homes and their children have been boundlessly blessed and benefited through their Relief Society membership. The name of every Latter-day Saint woman should appear on the tolls of Relief Society, and each great work the best support of which she is capable. Out of this effort to meet her responsibility to this God-inspired and Priesthood-directed organization, there will come to her a spiritual grace, a womanly charm, a poise, an uprightness and stability of character, a development of her talents and abilities, a competence in the management of her home, a wisdom in guiding and directing her children, an understanding heart, a testimony of the truthfulness of the restored gospel that will be a deep and abiding satisfaction to her, and a comforting and sustaining influence as long as life As we have shared in the labors so will we most certainly share in the triumph of the work and in the eternal blessings which the Lord will give to his faithful daughters. —B. S. S. Yn Nlemoritam —~ Martha Sone Ballard NOVEMBER 7, 1873—JANUARY 12, 1952
Martha Jones Ballard, seventy-eight years old, passed away at the family home in Salt Lake City, January 12, 1952. She was the wife of Elder Melvin J. Ballard, a member of the Council of the Twelve, who died in 1939. Sister Ballard, a gracious and lovely woman, was the devoted mother of four sons and three daughters, a true homemaker, and a gifted _and willing helpmeet for her husband. For twenty years she served as Relief Society president in the Northwestern States Mission, while her husband presided over that mission. Her loving service among the sisters is recalled with gratitude. Y¥ © &* & All Her