[Truth Beareth Record of Truth by Lillie C. Adams]

Truth Beareth Record of 'Truth Lillie C. Adams Member, General Board of Relief Society [Digest of Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1951] HE Book of Mormon is the greatest witness for the Bible, for itself, and for the Christ. Its advocacy for the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost is identical with that of the Bible. It is interesting to read in I Nephi 13:20-23 what is said by Nephi concerning the Bible coming forth from the Jews. It is interesting also to note in our Bible that a book shall come from the dust.
Just as the Bible bears witness and testifies that Jesus is the Christ to the people of the Eastern Hemisphere, so does also The Book of Mormon bear witness to the Jew, Gentile, and Lamanite that he is the Savior of the world to the people of the Western Hemisphere. A knowledge of II Nephi 29 will not only intensify our interest in a diligent study of The Book of Mormon in our course of theology this year, but it also gives the Lord's purpose for bringing forth more records than one:... A Bible, we have got a Bible, and we need no more Bible.
Have ye obtained a Bible save it were by the Jews?
Know ye not that there are more nations than one?.
Know ye not that I the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I remember those who are upon the isles of the sea; and that I rule in the heavens above and in the earth beneath; and I bring forth my word unto the children of men, yea, even upon all the nations of the earth?
Wherefore murmur ye, because that ye shall receive more of my word?
Know ye not that the testimony of two nations is a witness unto you that I am God, that I remember one nation like unto another? Wherefore, I speak the same words unto one nation like unto another. And when two nations shall run together the testimony of the two nations shall run together also. And I do this that I may prove unto many that I am the same yesterday, today, and forever; and that I speak forth my words according to mine own pleasure. And because that I have spoken one word ye need not suppose that I cannot speak another; for my work is not yet finished; neither shall it be until the end of man, neither from that time henceforth and forever. Wherefore, because that ye have a Bible ye need not suppose that it con.
Tains all my words; neither need ye suppose that I have not caused more to be written. For I command all men, both in the east and in the west, and in the north, and in the south, and in the islands of the sea, that they shall write the words which I speak unto them; for out of the books which shall be written I will judge the world, every man according to their works, according to that which is written. For behold, I shall speak unto the Jews and they shall write it? And I shall also speak unto the Nephites and they shall write it; and I shall also speak unto the other tribes of the house of Israel, which I have led away, and they shall ' write it; and I shall also speak unto all nations of the earth and they shall write it.: And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the words of the Nephites, and  160 the Nephites shall have the words of the Jews; and the Nephites and the Jews shall have the words of the lost tribes of Israel; and the lost tribes of Israel shall have the words of the Nephites and the Jews (II Nephi 29:6-13). Wat is the divine purpose of each nation having a record of its own? Is there not a plan, a pattern for salvation here and hereafter contained therein? All the principles of the gospel are clearly enunciated in The Book of Mormon.
Everything for the perfection of the human personality is plainly taught. In this great book Christ gave to the Nephites the Sermon on the Mount, teaching the things we should do in our relationship to God and to man. 'Today it has been called the Magna Charta of Christianity.
Also in this great book, in Mosiah 29, is contained one of the greatest documents of democracy ever written.
What a recommendation this would be in the cause of peace if the world would adopt this doctrine. Yes, our Book of Mormon is filled with pages of pearls of wisdom and doctrines of singular beauty and philosophical values, which, if adopted as the foundation of our lives, will not only be a source of joy in this life, but eternal salvation in the world to come.
What is the philosophy of the Book of Mormon? The Lord's words to Nephi in the wilderness answer this question: "Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments, they shall prosper in the land of promise." "Wickedness never was happiness" contains the core of Nephite  philosophy. Let us hear what our Prophet Joseph Smith says regarding happiness. "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness and keeping all the commandments of God" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 255-256).
What was the great important truth that our Master taught to his beloved disciples on the Eastern as well as the Western Hemisphere? The same important truths concerning the Godship, the Sonship, the Holy Spirit—the Trinity. It is a priceless privilege for our Relief Society sisters this year and in ensuing years to drink deep into the doctrines taught in our Book of Mormon, not only to learn the doctrine, but to make practical application of the truths taught therein in our daily lives. It has been said that The Book of Mormon is the greatest tool in the hands of the missionaries in converting people to Christ's way of life. May we not also say that it is the greatest tool in the hands of mothers and fathers in converting their sons and daughters to the gospel of Jesus Christ? I should like to close with the words of our prophet and seer, President David O. McKay, the words he uttered on his birthday. He said, "Thanks most of all for the gospel of Jesus Christ, the true philosophy of a happy life which sanctifies and makes operative all other blessings." God bless us in our studies of The Book of Mormon and all our divine works is my prayer.