[WomansExponent | Vol16 | 1887 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: WOMEN. | Author: Unknown]

			WOMEN.

	An International Council of Women is to be
held this year at the Nation's Capital. It will be
an event of great moment to women universally,
something "new under the sun," and will, without
doubt, seriously effect the question of woman's
equality before the law, and have a tendency to
impress strongly upon this nation and other
nations the intense earnestness women of intellect,
refinement and culture are giving to this compara-
tively new phase of woman as a citizen of the
world. It will give emphasis to the measures al-
ready advocated with such untiring energy and
unflinching integrity, by advanced thinkers, and
will also have a tendency to evolve other methods
of enterprise and achievement which will more
effectually lift the women of all nations into greater
light, and bring them up to that relative position
in the brotherhood of the world, that even-handed
justice demands for them, and that the intuition
and prophetic sense of the best and most mature
thinkers in the great battle of woman's rights,
have anticipated during the last forty years.
	It seems marvelous, when one considers the
condition of the women of our own nation even,
that forty years of effort should have wrought
such a wondrous change, as to admit of a mam-
moth jubilee such as this would be, though as yet
it can scarcely be called by so significant a 
term.
	In union there is strength, is often quoted, and
when the strongest and ablest women of several
nations combine to promote a great cause, their
united faith and power "will remove mountains,"
so to speak. The notices given through the press
of this International Council are indicative of the
increased influence of women in the various de-
partments of life. There are no slurs on her
weakness, no ridicule of her mental powers, but
the utmost respect and deference characterizes all
newspaper articles on the subject, that have come
under our notice.
	Forty years ago, in 1848, the first Woman's Con-
vention was held at Seneca Falls, New York. The
two women most prominent in calling it were
Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Mrs.
Stanton is still living and holds the office 
of President of the National Woman's Suff-
rage Association, under whose auspices this 
great call is made. That Convention held forty
years ago was the first public demand for 
equal educational, industrial, professional and
political rights for women ever made. Since
that time what vast progress and advance-
ment women have made, step by step, not only in
our own land, but in lands afar, under govern-
ments hostile to all measures for woman's higher
education and progression, in all her relations to
the home, or the state.
	This great change in public opinion, and in the
various conditions of woman as a helper and

[column 2]

worker are due mainly to the active forcos brought
to bear upon the question of woman's place, in
the first instances by the notable women of this
century who took part in that memorable conven-
tion, and other faithful diligent and fearless work-
ers, who have since been added to their ranks.
They have broken down the iron gates that barred
women out from the field of action where they
might receive the full growth of stature, and de-
velopment of talent, and having once opened
these iron-barred gates, hung upon the hinges
of ignorance and sealed so firmly by tradition,
the great multitude of women that have flocked in
thither have prevented their being closed again,
and are now storming the formidable fortress with-
in so effectually that it must soon yield peacable
possession to these helpers in the world's great
work, and side by side, and shoulder to shoulder,
brother and sister, man and woman will advocate
the triumph of right, in the momentous questions
that are now agitating the world of thought. 
	It may take forty years more, but we doubt it,
perchance not more than ten, when there may be
a real jubilee celebrated over the victory gained
in woman's cause. Woman's love for the true,
the noble, the pure and the infinite will be a po-
tent power in revolutionizing governments
when she is allowed to be the political equal of
man. Until woman is untrammeled in this re-
spect, she cannot possibly wield the same influence 
in public affairs.
	That this Herculean effort in behalf of all
women may be attended with the best results, and
that from this may emanate such wisdom and
power, as shall move the leaders in governments,
and the people, to a recognition of the difficulties
women so keenly feel, and the environments which
surround them now, that a revolution may soon
commence which shall be still more far-reaching
and effective in its methods than in the past, and 
ere long woman may stand in her beauty andmajes-
ty a free and independent being as she came upon
this earth, willing and ready to share the respon-
sibilities of earth-life, and never shrinking from
its duties and obligations even though fraught
with pain and sorrow. 
	The International Council of Women will be
held in Albaugh's Opera House in Washington,
D. C., commencing March 25, 1888, and will con-
tinue eight days. There will be sixteen public
sessions, giving ample opportunity for reporting
the various phases of woman's work during the 
last forty years. The call is made under the 
auspices of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. Elizabeth Cady Stanton, President;
Susan B. Anthony, First V. Pres.; Matilda Joslyn
Gage, Second V. Pres.; May Wright Sewall, Ch'm
Ex. Com.; Ellen H. Sheldon, Recording Sec'y;
Jane H. Spafford, Treasurer; Rachel G. Foster,
Cor. Sec'y.


[Column 1]
