[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Sparks Struck from the Conference Fires]

EDITORIAL Kntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto—Charity Never Faitleth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.: -. -. -. - Susa Youne Gares Tusiness Manager °— - - - - - - - - Janette A. Hyve \ssistant Manager -. - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VIII. NOVEMBER, 1921. No. 11. SPARKS STRUCK FROM THE CONFERENCE FIRES DEBT President Heber J. Grant in his keynote speech at the recent conference dwelt powerfully upon three topics: Debt, the Word of Wisdom, and Home Products. He urged the men of this Church to get out of debt 'and to stay out of debt. Men and women sometimes run into debt for wise reasons, to buy necessary machinery, to improve farms or homes. But too often men run in debt to gratify women, and to hush the pleadings of extravagant daughters. Autos, with tons of gasoline for young people's gadding about, new furniture, pianos, phonographs, dresses, picture shows, canned foods instead of cooking, with the most expensive cuts of meats, freshest of eggs, fruits and vegetables out of season, parties and entertainments galore with expensive refreshments and extras, all these things make men depressed, discouraged, and fill the home with bills and debts that almost stagger the head of the household. What shall we women do about this matter of debt? Retrench in every conceivable direction, not with that niggardly retrenchment which refuses to buy when we have money, or to give work to our own brethren who are in need of work, but to cut off the useless expenditures which are not directly concerned with our own state and our own people and avoid spending when we are in debt. Then, to help in every way our husbands to get out of debt and to stay out of debt. Housework will not hurt us women, old or young, it is the most developing work except in Unusual cases and circumstances, It is not and farms, Above all things, keep a cheerfu] face, a bright smile and an Ncouraging Word for our struggling husbands and fath- €ts, which wil] in turn Teact upon Ourselves with encouraging hold office in the auxiliary Organizations should be exemplary S in *h, i HOME INDUSTRY An old-time note was struck by the President When he Which were from the ZC Oe factory and added that © had worn no other make Of shoes for eighteen years. (But they don't make women's shoes, | lSCOver, € urged the People everywhere to buy home Products wherever Possible, to debt in a group, Passing through the hands of five men and Teaching its final Testing place in the pocket of the man who Paid the first debt with jt. What may women do in carrying Out this counsel? Much, very much. We may always buy home-made soap, extracts, yeast Powder, canned milk, vegetables, Matches, Dixie molasses, home dried fruit, Corn, etc., ete. 
 Midst. A budget of household expenses is almost a necessity if we are to know where we are at from day to day. At least, let us build up every avenue of home industry and encourage the establishment of new home enterprises. THE ARMAMENT CONFERENCE The most outstanding feature of the meeting was the resolution offered by President Grant to set apart a day of remembrance before the Lord for the coming Conference on Limitation of Aramament. No one expects the Conference to be entirely successful in the matter of persuading men in every nation to lay down their arms all at once, yet some tremendously vital steps can be taken in this direction if the people and the people's God are with our leaders and Congress. It is pleas- 'ing to this Society to know that a resolution by Sister Annie Wells Cannon had already been introduced to the General Board and to our own conference on this subject before President Grant's resolution was proposed. Our resolution follows: Whereas, On November 11—Armistice Day—the international conference for the reduction and restriction of arms will be held at Washington, D. C., and Whereas, The success of this conference will mean a step forward in the progress for universal peace; and Whereas, Its success would also mean a reduction in the taxes which now burden the people of the different nations almost beyond endurance; Be It Resolved, That the members of the National Woman's Relief Society, in conference assembled, do hereby declare themselves in favor of this movement for the reduction and restriction of arms in all nations, and (a) Pledge themselves willing to study as individuals the different problems which must come before the conference; (b) To urge as great publicity of the proceedings of the conference as is compatible with progress; (c) To use all possible influence towards creating a stronger sentiment in the hearts of women for such measures to be adopted as shall ultimately lead to a condition of peace and harmony and brotherly love throughout the world. PRESIDENT GRANT'S TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT EMMELINE B. WELLS One of the most pleasing features of the conference, at least to the Relief Society sisters, was the lovely tribute to the life, character and labors of our late beloved President Emmeline B. Wells which was paid by the President of the Church on Sunday afternoon. Perhaps no more graceful or fervent public memorial words were ever offered to a woman amongst this people. Guide Lessons for January CV LESSson I Theology and Testimony First Week in January FORE WORD This Course of lessons n religion js intended to increase in Seneral the 4PPreciation Of the doctrines Of the Church, and aid Pecial €mphasis Will be Placed upon the value of tradition. Ing children, in harmony With the Tevealed Word of the Lord, in Such a yt Y may f abits of u 4nd action Out of which Shall com Nstant an Progressiy happiness to the extent th any a €parture from th Uurse of Ite, set orth in SOspel pla » Will cause immediate discomf Tt to the extent th here wil] € a yearnin for a re lM to the Path of Sspel rectjt de, in y of Wandering therefro n attemp Il be mad 0 hay lesson aig th Parent In Presenting the Matter no attempt wil be made in an Case to exhaust the subject nor to cover the field of references, tis a blessed Privilege to be in °rrespondence with the Lord: it lS a woefy] Condition not to be on Speaking terms with in " € tal ©arelessness, and wilfy] neglect of Prayer js Proof of oyr in- &ratitude, Our Prayers jn Prosperity are always teeming With love, those in adversity are usual] tinctured with fear. HeavenVice hereafter. The 8Teatest Messengers from on high were Message-senders While on earth, Gabrie] ( Noah); Michael] 
 (Adam); Moroni, the Nephite prophet and historian; Elijah, prophet of ancient Israel, who restored important keys of the Kingdom in Kirtland Temple; John the Baptist; Peter, James nnd John, and Moses, all mighty messengers from heaven to earth, faithful in keeping up their correspondence with the Lord. Prayer is the best preventive and the surest cure for soul sickness. The Savior knew this when he said, "Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation." Among the products of prayer are spiritual growth, soul uplift, and a sense of security. These three keep us at a point where we may say with sincerity, "T know that my Redeemer lives." Prayer, started by duty, invariably ends in pleasure. The Lord is pleased with any duty approach towards him, and rewards the effort with joy. PROMISES CONCERNING PRAYER Victory over Satan, Doc. And Cov. 10:5. Greater blessings than the treasures of earth. Doc. And Cov. 19:38. There are many other promises in the scripture made concerning prayer. COMMANDMENTS CONCERNING PRAYER Pray in public and in secret, Doc. And Cov. 23:. Teach the children to pray, Doc. And Cov. 68:28. Neglect of prayers is to be reported to the bishop, Doc. And Cov. 68:33. Blessings come through song prayer, Doc. And Cov. 25:12. Pray in joy and pray in sorrow, Doc. And Cov. 36:28-29. COMMANDMENTS FOSTERING PRAYER IN THE HOME Furnish prayer environment: Place in the dining room a picture of the toiler giving thanks for his loaf of bread and bowl of milk. Place in the parlor, if possible, a painting of the Sacred Grove or Joseph's First Prayer. Obtain "Sweet Hour of Prayer" for the Victrola, with reservations as to the doctrine of the last verse. All these things tend to create an atmosphere of devotion. Put the painting in good light and put the record on as a family reveille occasionally. Know that the children know the Lord's prayer, that the young folks know by heart, "I'll Serve the Lord While I am Young," "America," with emphasis on the last stanza, which will create an impulse to look up while rendering that part of the poem. "The Stars Spangled Banner," with such an appreciation of what the Lord has done in giving us our GUIDE LESSONS. 663 country that there will not only be an impulse to stand up, but to look upward, when the words "In God we trust" are sung. The hymn, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet," is a wonderful song prayer, the entire composition of which im-. Presses devotion to the Lord, loyalty to the Church, and its leaders.: SECRET PRAYER No set of good habits is complete without the habit of having secret prayer. To be alone with God means to be in the best company in the universe. Children should be so traditionated in secret prayer, that a feeling of discomfort will follow the neglect of this greatest of all spiritual duties, which is a primary source of spiritual joy and social safety. Failing or refusing to teach prayer is at least non-Christian. Jesus, the founder of Christianity, taught his disciples to pray, and his example and teachings in mortality are supplemented by his command through the Prophet Joseph Smith, Doc. And Cov. 68:28. That mother is praying for me is a beautiful and consoling thought, but of vastly more value is the experience of having mother pray with me. CONSISTENCY IN PRAYER Children should be taught, and we all must learn, that while sincerity alone is not sufficient; consistency must be there. We must all learn to put into our prayers some of the resignation that characterized the prayer in Gethsemane. Prayers often contain requests as inconsistent as that of the lad who wanted Lincoln to stop the raft that he might get his apple that had dropped into the water. A super-abundance of selfishness makes prayers inconsistent. What could contain more forgetfulness of others than the following prayer? Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep; If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. A valuable mobilization of I's and My's. There are times when self preservation, that first law of human nature, takes justifiable, impulsive control of everything; as in the case when Peter, sinking at sea, cried out, "Lord, save me." But the habitual morning or evening prayer can not consistently be void of interest in others. The most perfectly unselfish prayer ever uttered was, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." 664 ' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. PROPRIETY IN PRAYER Prayer should be suited in time and in content to the circumstances. Where the Spirit of the Lord presides and is permitted by the humility of man to direct, the consistency and propriety will be perfect, but it must be remembered that true humility does not consist in utter carelessness in relation to thought along the line of the eternal fitness of things. No prayer is too long if interest is sustained to the end, but the one who prays with others must bear in mind, that though chosen to lead he has no monopoly on the group interests, even if the time is all at his disposal. The longest prayer to which Scriptural reference is made extended through an entire day; it was a secret prayer. See Book of Mormon, Book of Enos. Propriety protests against long prayers, in the sick room, except on rare occasions. There are cases wherein much fasting and prayer are necessary to the overcoming of the power of the adversary, but certainly fasting could not be done in the presence of the afflicted, and the extended praying need not be done there. Authority and faith is what makes prayer powerful as a healing force. READING REFERENCES References, Chapter 12. Gospel Doctrines, Joseph F. Smith. Vol, 22, Era, Keeping Up Correspondence With God, George H. Brimhall. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS Some things to think about and talk about. 1. Why does the Lord want us to pray? 2. What would be the effect if the privilege of prayer were taken away. 3. What happened to King Saul when the Lord refused to communicate with him? 4. In what respect is teaching children to pray complying with the request of the Savior, "Suffer little children to come unto me." 5. Wherein does neglect in teaching children to pray become a refusal to comply with this request of the Master? 6. Prayer is the simplest and surest way to form a loving acquaintance with the Lord. 7. Praying only when we are in distress is unmistakable evidence of both ingratitude and weakness. 8. Praying with our children will affect their salvation more than praying for them. 9. If parents neglect the Lord their children will neglect them. 10. Where was the first known prayer uttered?