[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy B. Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy B. Lyman Alberta Stake. A very interesting survey was recently made in the Alberta stake to determine how extensively the Word of Wisdom is being kept. The following figures have just, reached this office: 74.2 per cent of the men of the stake are non-users of tobacco; 16.8 per cent use tobacco habitually, and 9 per cent only occasionally, making a total of 25.8 per cent tobacco users. Tea and coffee are used as follows: of the males, 13.7 per cent habitually use tea, 15.6 per cent use tea only occasionally; 9.1 per cent use coffee habitually, and 17.1 per cent use coffee only ocgasionally. Of the females, 9.5 per cent use tea habitually, and 11.4 per cent use tea only wccasionally; 4.6 per cent use coffee habitually; and 9.6 per cent use coffee only occasionally. Of those who indulge in these stimulants, 92.9 per cent of them began under twenty years of age, and 85 per cent of this number, because of environment. Of those who use stimulanis, 92.4 per cent desire to quit; 69.3 per cent of all those in the stake keep the Word of Wisdom, while 98 per cent of the Relief Society stake and ward officers and teachers keep the Word of Wisdom. The best record made in any ward was 89 per cent strict observers of the Word of Wisdom. The lowest record was the ward which could show only 40 per cent observers of the Word of Wisdom. South Sevier Stake.: During the stake conference, the Relief Society of the stake put on a pageant, "A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood" which was outlined in the March Magazine. All the wards in the stake joined together, each being assigned an episode. Monroe wards were given the prologue and the last part of the first episode. They showed what darkness was upon the people a century ago, and how the spirits of evil were triumphant. The dance of the demons was very effective. It was taught by a little blind girl of Monroe who had specialized in dancing. The first part of the first episode was given to the Mjarysvale Ward, the tableaus that were presented of the Church and Relief Society organizations were especially good, and the costumes true to the period. A very interesting scene was that of the pioneers crossing the plains and their arrival in Utah, carried out by the Joseph and Sevier wards. A scene, painted by Mr. B. Y. Baird, portraying the valley as Brigham Young saw it when he raised on 
 His elbow and announced "This is the place," made a strong impression on the minds of the audience. The old time quadrilles and the tableau of Eliza R. Snow and her administration were also such as to merit praise. The third episode was given to the Anrfabella ward, Utah 1880-1890, representing Zina D. Young and her work, the silk industry. This ward was very fortunate in having some silk worm cocoons, a spinning wheel and loom that were used in the manufacture of silk in early days. In the fourth episode the Central ward illustrated the temple work. The Elsinore ward took the remainder of the episodes, the tableau of the Relief Society wheat saving, the gleaners, dance of the harvesters, peace, and ratification of woman suffrage, 1920. A flag drill was also very successfully executed. The singing and the instrumental music were especially appropriate to the occasion. Five hundred people attended the performance and the door receipts amounted to $122.65. Mr. J. D. Montagne and Mrs. Matilda B. Ross arranged and directed the entertainment. They were assisted by Mrs. Nina Hansen, who was the pageant reader. Pioneer Stake. The women of Garfield have for some time been in charge of all relief work in the community. The Woman's Club, the Utah Copper Compfany, the Smelter Relief Company, Utah Copper Dancing Club, and Bingham and Garfield Boarding House all turned their relief funds over to the president of the Relief Society to use for those in need. These organizations felt that the Relief Society was better able to take care of the situation than any one of the others. Members of all these groups are giving personal assistance to the women of the Relief Society in the welfare work. A survey was first made of the town in an effort to ascertain the true condition, and the work was based upon the results of the survey. Blaine Stake. President Laura J. Adamson, her counselors, secretary and one board member, have just completed a very interesting visit to nine of the Relief Society organizations in the Blaine stake. Nine days were required to make the trip, and a distance of 600 miles traveled without one minute's cat trouble. They were privileged to see each organization in regular session, and to hold an officers' meeting besides. At the officers' meeting, each stake officer presented a definite line of work which made for a systematic, profitable meeting. The ward welcomed the officers and extended to them the most hospitable entertainment. The stake officers were delighted to partake of the splendid spirit of love, enthusiasm and cooperation manifested in every organization. Especially were they pleased to find such an excellent en- NOTES FROM T HE FIELD, 649 Tollment and attendance of young mothers, who showed keen interest In the Relief Society work. The enlistment Committee Im many of the Organizations is doing excellent work in Setting the young Mothers into the Relies Society, by (O-operating With oye he BeeIve Gi d providin 4ns for the Caring of the children While the Mothers attend meet; 8: In some Wards the teachers d made their 109 Per cent visits I Ch of these Wards, th Officer Who has charge f the te hers' tk is ye Tk a Stake and all have been Visited at their re ular Meetings except one ward, and this will soon be Visited, It is Sixty-five miles aay. The Splendid Spirit of unity and the activity of the wards ':: hei: 1€ summer activities have been much enjoyed by the ™Members of the Jerome Relief Society Of Blaine Stake. Sj Party yw. Planned for June the for of a ros, festival] T. Ward house Was cleaned and tastefully decorated with pink Toses and potted pl Ons Of roses u Tom the ceiling mak. Ing a Sautiful effect A tiny Pink rose bud Sether with the ame was Pinned on each of the members a they entered After 4 well arran d Ogram a Social half n Tefreshments Were enjoyed. S eral embers Were add h » and the five Visiting stake ard members Considered they had een royal] entertained uly picnic Was all th one could €sire. Th INVitations Tead as follo We're having a Picnic on Tuesday at ten, € want all the members, Bed-Hive girls ang Men, n depends On your being there, a So please come a] '& and each do your Share Ow do not forge your sp » fork and Plate T sad indeed Il be your f. Jerome members Say SOCieties Which hay, Not invited the \4 tual girls to assist Ocials and Picnics have Missed Portneuf Stake. T€Vious to the beginning of the group Conventions this fall, President George Gq Hyde and Counselors, of Portneuf Stake, js. Sued a Printed Circular letter announcing in detail the Convention LJ 
 To be held in Portneuf stake. The circular contained an explanation of the object of the convention, the arrangement of meetings, etc., and urged all stake and ward officers to be in attendance. Curlew Stake. The Curlew stake reports a very satisfactory group convention, all wards being represented but one. There was a good attendance of stake and ward officers and two members of the High Council attended all Relief Society sessions. Boise Stake. At the beginning of the year the Boise stake outlined some of the things col. Templated for the social service department as follows: Appointment of social service workers, one in each ward. Duties of these workers were to familiarize themselves with laws of city, county and state; get aid of extension workers or any teacher of cooking, whenever possible, in holding demonstration classes on cooking and serving of foods; cooperate with other social service workers or board of health in city, county and state in anything for the uplift of humfanity; get these city, county and state workers to come into scciety and give lectures on existing conditions and means of remedying them; encourage the keeping of homes in sanitary condition; encourage mothers to read more about the caring and rearing of their families; (books and government bulletins); report anything not in accordance with laws of city, county and state that would benefit society; report any defectives and incurables to proper authorities; report any children who are not attending school of compulsory age; aid in suppressing use of tobacco by working with individuals and reporting jaw breakers whether they be sellers or smokers (minors); encourage mothers to pay more attention to their families; report breakers of child labor laws. Modern Health Crusade With the object of preventing the spread of disease and helping to enforce sanitary and quarfantine laws, a health committee of three—with social service class leader as chairman—was appointed in each Relief Society to cooperate with city and county health officials, this committee to assist local boards in providing for emergencies; to be ready to give aid to communities, families or individuals, if called upon by local officers, and expecting the help of the county officers in return in caring for own sick if necessary. These committees were required to familiarize themselves with the laws of the state, and city with conditions in their locality, by reading pamphlets published by the state and by keep- NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 651 ing in touch with city health officials. All members of the Relief Society were asked to report to the local health office and to the ward committee anything they might see at any time detrimental to health in shops, meat markets, grocery stores, in street or in private yards or houses. The ward committee was asked to report all social service work back to the stake committee quarterly. At the close of the summer we have the following very interesting report, showing a development of one phase of the work. All ward associations in the stake were requested to make a survey of the number of children under six years of age and to hold free clinics for the same not later than May 30, for the purpose of determining if they were under-weight or over-weight; whether there were any eye, ear, nose or throat trouble, or any other trouble that a good nurse could determine. It was felt that inasmuch as all school children are more or less looked after by school nurses, that it would be more important to get the ones under this age. The response from all the organizations was more than gratifying. In most of the wards they obtained the services of the best doctors, who willingly gave their services free of charge. There were over 150 children who were given a very good general examination and each mother was provided with a score card, giving the exact condition of each child and what treitment was needed. Then the follow up work which most of the associations are doing consists of public lectures by these physicians, dealing specifically with the troubles they found. For instance, in Boise, Drs, Handy and Anderson lectured in the church well filled with the priesthood and Relief Society members on "Diet and Sanitation" and "Eye, Ear, Nose and Thront," giving very valuable instruction to those present. Then, Dr. Handy, was instrumental in getting the osteopaths of this city to help him in the treatment of three of the babies who will repe treatment from these doctors until they are perrranently cured. The mothers were very pleased over the results of the examinations, some declaring that they received more information from the clinic than they had received. From examinations which had cost them ten dollars. These local officers are certainly to be congratulated for this splendid work. The Weiser Relief Society in addition to the above work, has held special lectures and demonstrations along various lines such as "Care and Feeding of Infants" and "Home Canning," given at the High School by the Domestic Science teacher; also demonstrations in hat-making. In this latter, two of the members who had taken the course are teaching the others. Every one of Speaking of the Work done in Boise City by the ward association there, the local daily Paper commented ag follows: r Handy and Mrs. Caroline b War a successfy] clinic for the Purpose of €xamining all children, especially those under Schoo] age, who do not have the Privilege Of the regular schoo] medica] €xamination, was held Monday, At this clinic D €or, y and Dr, D. An €Tson gay Over fifty chilTen a th ugh medical xamination, and a ¢ Mplete record of Y defects Or troubles m r reference, As follow. Onnection with e ©xamination, lectures will be Siven by Promin Physicians So that Officers of the Boise Relies Society had the Cooperation and Support of the City, county and state health Officers 2nd also the State lS nti-Tuberculos lety, in connection i € Clinic helg 1 Boise. € importance his ind attention the little folk: ceiving Widespre d attention g d it is y derstood th her churche. SSOme of the clubs lS€ are pla Similar aid for children coming Within their reach.» All the SOCieties of Boise Stake worked heroichly for the Anti-tuberculogis and tobacco bills but were disappointeq with what u Made in it, Which Made it not Nearly go 00d. Idaho Succeeded in retaining its Anti-Tuberculosia Office, which the legislature was determine to do away with, but Could not get the @PProprigtion for the Sanitariyms fought so hard for. Morgay Stake—Reor ganized n July 24, at the Stake Priesthoog Meeting, the Morgan Stake Relief Society Was Wo sanized, Mrs, Maryette R. Walir urer, At the first union Meeting, held on August 28, there w. 2 good attendance of Stake and Ward officers A genera] outline for Carrying on Relief Society work was Siven as follows: Open. tk ho Carry on the discussion, by Mrs, May D. Of testimony Meetings, by Mrs, Sarah Giles, aig > ¥urpose and benefit of work Meetings with definite 1 -commendations of the kind of work to be taken » by Mrs. Selma Francis, aid: Duties;: hee and q alifications f teache S, by Mrs Mamie einer, aj im f Relj Societ } € Fran S, second coun Selor SPécial drive }, S be instituted in the int Test of better attend Pecial ind € » 4 Drize g SIX Relief So clety song bo lS offered to the Soc ty which s Cures the high Utah ders ould b i Ticularly Interested in the first chapter wich refers toa « on" miner had drj ted ¢ utte ear] days, Pen Picture Of this Id-timey Is evidently accurate, nd yet th Iter has th hi Materja] With wo isrespect Sensation lism. W, mend jt