[Vol8 | November 1921 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) FOREWORD Relief Society workers are interested in promoting the welfare of God's children in every possible way, physically, morally and spiritually. We are anxious to do our work thoroughly, and 'at the same time economically. Experience has taught us' that we can do our work most thoroughly and economically through the home. The home, more than any other institution, touches the individual on every hand. It provides him during the greater part of his life, with food, clothing, shelter, as well as directs him intellectually, morally and spiritually. The slightest change in home conditions affects the life of every member of the family for good or ill. In fact, we are more sensitive to conditions of the home than to any other relation of life. It is because of its significance to human welfare that our organization has always given the home considerable attention, and it is for this reason that we shall consider, in the few lessons that follow, some of the factors which tend to promote or hinder its welfare. The question of method of study has considerable to do with the efficiency of our work. We must begin at the right place and follow in proper sequence. We have been dealing quite extensively with the conditions of poverty and sickness, and the consequences of unfortunate and improper home relations and, in so doing, we have become fully aware of the fact that many of 670. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. These conditions have grown out of ignorance, lack of education, or improper education, concerning the meaning and seriousness of home responsibilities. In the lessons in this department we hope to emphasize the edugational end of the home problem for, as mothers, we feel that we can, and should, through the organization, play a real part in the education of our sons and daughters, in the meaning and gacredness of the home, As mothers, we are more than relief workers, we are teachers in the truest and greatest meaning of the term. We want not only to remove suffering and give immediate relief to those in distress, but in order that we may avoid the very conditions which lead to sorrow, we want to remove ignorance, inefficiency, and vice, and to enlighten youth and promote wholesome social and moral relations all along the line from childhood to parenthood. We are well aware of the fact that many broken homes are the results of improper conduct prior to marriage, and in turn that the failure of parenthood comes as a consequence of poor adjustment between husband and wife. We believe, therefore, that the natural and most successful method will be, first, to study the social life of youth in so far as it bears upon their physical, moral, and educational preparation for home life. In the second place, we shall study the husband and wife relationship in its psychological, moral and social aspects. And, thirdly, we sltall take up the parent and child relationship. In all these relationships we shall endeavor to make use of the simple yet fundamental principles developed in psychology, sociology, and ethics, to the end of more effectively establishing, fostering, and protecting the greatest social institution, the home. THE HOME.—RESPONSIBILITY IN THE HOME RESPONSIBILITY AND CITIZENSHIP A country such as our own has, along with many good things, some problems which must be solved. A society which gives freedom and equality to its members must make certain demands of them. Every individual must carry some responsibility. The ordinary citizen must sense a responsibility for the welfare of the community. As a voter he gives direction to our great political and social affairs and must, therefore, be trained in the meaning and importance of such responsibility. Many of our citizens, however, do not sense fully this responsibility. Some of them ate so indifferent that they do not even avail themselves of the opportunity to vote. Others are willing to vote, but with the dropping of the ballot on election day they feel their responsibility ends. Some of our citizens use the privilege which the country confers upon them, to promote their selfish interests at the expense of the public. There are others still who have a positive contempt for our institutions and who are doing all in their power to defeat the very purpose of law and government. These notions are not in harmony with the ideals of our country. Individuals who hold such notions have been improperly educated. The homes in which they were reared have not done their full duty. RESPONSIBILITY MUST BEGIN IN THE HOME By American institutions we mean more than a system of government, and laws, a constitution, we mean also a system of ideas, sentiments and habits. True citizenship in America is more than a gift, it is an attainment. It is a way of living; here in our every day life is found the essence of democracy. Our great social structure will succeed or fail, stand or fall depending upon our ability as parents and teachers to develop in the youth proper standards of citizenship. The home is our basic institution and upon it rests our greatest educational responsibility. It is the human nursery. If our citizens are to possess the attributes which qualify them for responsibilities in a democratic society suitable seeds must be planted very early in their lives. Habits, ideals and sentiments are not directly given to the individual; they grow very slowly. They need a whole lifetime to mature. THE IDEAL HOME The ideal home is careful about two conditions: giving too much liberty to children, on the one hand, and depriving them of necessary freedom for self-expression, on the other. It feels obligated to instil in the lives of youth proper respect for law and authority but it also recognizes the duty of developing in them the power of self control, and the ability to use liberty wisely. Serious consequences follow the neglect of either of these two obligations. Real freedom is not a life independent of law, but one in harmony with it. The laws of God and the laws of the state are for the good of men. Until men recognize this fact freedom is for them an empty term. Some young people, and older people also, frequently disregard authority and break away from the control of law, believing that by so doing they are enjoying freedom. Little do they realize that they are actually depriving themselves of the essential conditions of freedom. They are throwing themselves into the hands of untrustworthy authority and are becoming the slaves of a lower type of control, native instincts, foolish whims and ignorance. No one can run away from law; if he refuses to obey human laws and God's laws, he is sure to suffer 
 The punishment which nature's law inflict. Thousands of young people have come to grief, many homes have been wrecked because of a false conception of freedom. But on the other hand our ideal citizenship does not grow in an autocratic home. The ideal home must recognize individual rights, it must place responsibility upon individuals and consequently must confer freedom in proportion to the responsibility imposed. We need homes that have faith in the integrity of children. We need homes that recognize abilities in children and are willing to place responsibilities upon them according to their physical, mental and moral maturity. We need homes, that can utilize, not only the powers and intelligence of father and mother, but of son and daughter, brother and sister, from the youngest to the oldest member of the family. Homes that can thus distribute responsibilities, and utilize the many kinds and degrees of abilities, are the homes out of which develops the true type of American citizenship, the ideal Church member, the good Latter-day Saint. THE HOME IS MORE THAN A MEANS; IT IS AN END IN LIFE But in our emphasis upon the home as a nursery for citizenship we must not forget that the home is more than a means through which we prepare the individual for other relations of life; it is an end in itself. We have as much right to expect the other institutions in the community, the schools and the Church, to educate the individual for efficiency in the home as to expect the home to furnish the community with good citizenship. The failure to recognize this fact is responsible to a large extent for the present neglect on the part of the community to educate young people for home responsibilities. It is in the home where we spend the greater part of our lives. It is here we share one another's joys and sorrows. As individuals we completely identify ourselves with the home. The mistake of one member of the family is directly felt by all the other members. In the life of normal men and women the home is the institution to which they will consecrate their greatest efforts. They are willing to sacrifice for it, struggle to maintain it, fight to preserve it, and, if need be, die to protect it. Nothing can take its place. All the comfort, all the joy, all the love, that is deemed worth while in the world they expect will come to them through the home. The home is a means to life, but it is more than that; it is man's most natural and real life. QUESTIONS 1, What conditions do you observe about you which tend to show that all people do not appreciate the blessings of a free country? Show that America is more than a form of government. 3. What can the home do to educate for responsible citizenship? 4, How early in life can a child be taught to carry responsibilities in the home? 5. If a child has not been taught to carry responsibilities in the home, can we expect him to become a responsible citizen? Explain. 6. Give an example from your own experience to show the value of persons being required to carry responsibilities early in life. Can the principle of giving responsibility be overdone? 8. Besides the home what other institutions have we, the function of which is to train children for citizenship? 9. Describe an ideal home, from the standpoint of developing responsible citizens. 10. Which statement do you prefer and why? (1) The home should train the child to become a useful citizen in the community. Or (2) The ty should educate the child to become efficient in living a home ife. GUIDE LESSONS Teachers' Topic for January (Optional ) Note.—Teachers' topics will be published in the Guide Department of the Magazine for each month of 1922. It is optional with the stakes whether or not these topics are used. The Significance of the New Year a. The time for making good resolutions, following the customs of the most ancient peoples. B. "Build not upon regret for the past, but build upon resolve for the future." c. Resolve to read the Scriptures regularly, and try to adapt them to daily life. D. Study "the Sermon on the Mount" for January.