	VISITING TOUR, UTAH STAKE.
	On the morning of July 18th, 1888, per
appointment, the Stake Officers made a tour
through Utah Stake.
	Prest. Annie K. Smoot, in company with
First Counselor Eliza Taylor and Secretary
Mary Stewart, visited the southern part of the
County, namely, Springville, Spanish Fork,
Salem, Benjaman, Payson, Santaquin, Lake
Shore and Goshen, and then, on July 30th,
Prest. A. K. Smoot, in company with Second
Counselor Sarah E. Cluff and Assistant Secre-
tary Grace L. Smith, visited the northern part,
namely: Pleasant Grove, American Fork,
Alpine, Fairfield and Cedar Fort.
	While absent they held fourteen meetings;
met 1,023 children and 103 officers; traveled
140 miles, 56 miles by rail and 80 miles by
team, being absent 7 days, 4 days south and
3 days north; reorganized two Associations.
At each place programmes were carried out by
the children, consisting of songs, recitations,
etc.
	The officers of each Association gave verbal
reports, showing that the Associations
were all in a flourishing condition, and that
the officers were a united band of sisters. The
sisters gave some excellent instructions at each
place, both to the parents and children. 
	Prest. A. K. Smoot spoke on the subjects of
order, faith, obedience, prayer, etc. Exhorted
the sisters not to get discouraged in the great
work of teaching the future hope of Zion.
	The Spirit of God prevailed throughout all
the meetings; the children performed their
parts with zest and good will. The good roads,
pleasant weather, and the hearty welcome with
which the visitors were received, greatly re-
lieved, the monotonous and tiresome journey.
	Much credit is due to the officers of the
different Associations, and the brethren who
kindly assisted us in the discharge of our duties.
	The Primary Conference of Utah Stake

[Column 2]
was held at Lehi, Aug. 29th, in the Lehi Meet-
ing House, commencing at 2 o’clock p.m. On
account of the illness of Prest. A. K. Smoot,
the meeting was called to order by Sister Re-
becca Standing. Programme, consisting of
songs, recitations, Scripture exercises, ete., was
carried out by the children. Addresses were
made by Counselors Eliza Taylor and Sarah
Cluff. A short speech and song by W. W.
Willis, of Salt Lake City, when the meeting
was adjourned for six months.
	The forenoon was occupied by a business
meeting of all the officers of the different as-
sociations of Utah Stake. Verbal reports
were given in and different methods discussed,
after which the officers were all invited to the
school house, where a repast had been provided
by the sisters of Lehi. Over one hundred sat
down to the first table. A good spirit pre-
vailed and we had a good time.
	MARY STEWART Sec.
	GRACE L. SMITH Asst. Sec.
	
