	FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

		HONOLULA, Oahu, July 29, 1888.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A year has elapsed since last we wrote you
concerning our labors in this part of our 
Father's vineyard, but while our pens are
silent, our hands and minds are busily engaged
in striving to benefit those among whom we
labor; and although the result of our labors
may not be as preceptible as we would like, we
feel assured that we will not be condemned for 
idleness. Yet we are not weary in our efforts,
but find pleasure in trying to teach our dusky 
sisters the plan of usefulness and industry.
	Our labors during the last term were that of
teaching the necessity of hand-work and home
industry, and for the establishment of this pur-
pose we held a Fair at Laie, at the time of our 
April Conference, which was well attended.
	This being a ntu hou (new thing), and not 
thoroughly understood by the natives, there was
a greater exhibition of na mea kahiku (ancient
relics) than of hand-work, with the exception
of the work of a class of little girls from the 
Laie day school, whom Sister Beesley had been
teaching to do fancy work.
	But the beautiful quilts made by the sisters
of the different branches of the Society, were
admired by all who saw them, both for neat-
ness in work and novelty in design.  There
was also a nice variety of home-made fans,
straw hats, matting, Hawaiian kapa, or ancient
Hawaiian quilts, small grass houses, represent-
ing the home of the native in the past.  There 
were also a variety of lei's (necklaces), made 
from the pretty coa seeds and kakui nuts.  In
fact the most of their work was that to which
they were well accustomed.  Therefore, our 
labors at present are in teaching them all 
kinds of useful and ornamental hand-work,
that they may be able to beautify their homes
and persons with the work of their own hands;
as the Saints of God have been taught to do.
We find them quite deficient in this respect,
and as our efforts in the last six months were 
considered by our brethren a step in the right 
direction, we have been stimulated to continue,
and hope that our future efforts will tend to 
more directly benefit our native sisters than
they have previously done.
	Could our many readers of the EXPONENT
glance for a moment upon the home of the
native, I think they would agree with us in the 
necessity of instructing them in the many oc-
cupations of the housewife—how, by her good
management and skill, a home, though humble, 
may be made both neat and cleanly. The
house of the native is generally that of an un-
finished frame building; yet we occasionally 
see the ancient grass house occupied.  The in-
side has a home-made mat upon the floor,
made from the lau hala, or leaf of the puhala
tree, this extends half across the room, the
other half having four or five layers of finer

[column 2]
woven mat, which is occupied as a bed for the
family.
	The walls are not often stained wtth white-
wash, but usually have pictures from magazines
pasted firmly upon them, displaying anything 
but taste. The roof is often lined with cob-
webs, etc., the windows are without blinds or
curtains. Occasionally there will be a chair,
though not always, even though they be
supplied with necessary piece of furniture,
the inmates will be found seated upon the
floor, or taking it more easy, stretched out at
full length. Hospitable and kind as this peo-
ple are they are blind to the necessity of be-
ing self-sustaining and independent. What
they copy from the white people are generally 
the frivolous and wordly habits which are
detrimental to them, the essential ones they
look upon as impossible. 
	Hence our readers will see the great work
of usefulness to be done here in order to bene-
fit a fallen race of people and raise them to a 
standard of usefulness and industry. To this 
end we are laboring to honorably fulfil our
mission among the Hawaiian people.
