MISCELLANEOUS.

	The tight coat sleeve is entirely abandoned
in favor of the sleeve of puffs and plaits.
	A new bangle is made of gold wire in the
 shape of an arrow which curves around the
arm.
	Outside pockets will be worn with fall gowns.
As they are convenient and can be made orna-
mental they will be heartily welcome.
	Bows of plaited braid appear at the foot of 
the skirt in all new gowns. They are well re-
ceived, ae they look well and save the dress
from wear.
	Realism permeates all arts—even the milli-
ners. The latest decoration for bonnets is a 
bunch of red clover blossoms or thistleheads.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Julia Wolfe, an English lady, has com-
posed an opera entitled "Carina." The Musical
Standard says it will be produced in London
shortly. 
	Charles Lamb's grave at Edmonton is sadly
neglected. The simple slab of limestone which
marks the spot is nearly hidden with weeds
and grasses. 
	Amelie Rives-Chanler confines herself to very
few books, but those she does read are selected
with great care. Shakspere, Poe, and George
Eliot are her favorite authors. 
	The Senate has printed Mr. Blair's report
from the committee on education and labor, re-
commending a prohibitory amendment and has
embodied in it Mrs. Bittenbender's arguments
before the committee on behalf of the W. C. 
T. U. 
	Mrs. Alma Tadema is an instance of the

[Column 2]
kind of women, constantly growing more num-
erous, who achieve success and fame in the
outside world and still are thoroughly the mis-
tress of their homes. She is a model house-
keeper and adopts for a motto, "Kitchen first, 
studio second." 
	The world of art owes Princess Torrearsa a 
great debt for the preservation of the famous
collection of Greek vases brought together by 
the late archaeologist Serradifaleo. Through
her efforts the collection has been placed in the
museum of Palermo, at Sicily, where it will be
doubtless kept for all time. 
	The poems of Miss Mary Robinson, the En-
glish verse writer, have been translated into 
French, and, as a fitting acknowledgment of
her indebtedness, she is about to marry her
translator, Prof. Darmesteter of the College
of France. Miss Robinson is the author of 
the biography of Emily Bronte. 
	A bill has passed both the senate and house
of representatives to provide for the appoint-
ment of three police matrons for the District
of Columbia, at a salary of $600 a year each. 
These matrons, who are to care for women
prisoners in the nation's capital, are to be ap-
pointed on the recommendation of ten women 
in good standing in the district. 
	There are not many men who have the business
ability necessary to the successful management 
of an income of $7,000, a month. No wonder
that her business managers are surprised at 
Mrs. George Westinghouse of Pittsburg, whose
income is considerably larger than the amount
mentioned and yet who handles it with wonder-
ful shrewdness and business tact. 
	The fact that women have clever hands and
nimble fingers as well as brains is being demon-
strated more and more clearly every day. Since
Rosa Bonheur first showed the world what a 
woman might do for art, the growth of the 
number of artists of the gentler sex has been
on the constant increase. The latest success
is that of Miss Bentley of Cincinnati, a
teacher of wood carving. A recent exhibition 
of the work done by her lady pupils shows
some remarkable originality of design and 
great firmness and delicacy of execution. 
	General Philip H. Sheridan died of "heart
failure" after several months' illness, August 
5th last. The remote cause of death was
disease in the valves of the heart. He was 
under sixty years of age, having been born at 
Somerset, Ohio, March 6, 1831. General 
Sheridan's parents came from Ireland and 
settled in Ohio in the first quarter of the cen-
tury. At twelve years of age the boy, Phil, 
found employment in a hardware store. Next
he passed to the dry goods counter. While
thus employed he heard of an opportunity to
go to West Point, and at once wrote to the 
Congressman of his district about it, and to his
surprise was nominated. Five years were
spent at the National Academy, but at twenty-
two he was graduated and assigned to duty on 
the frontier, where he was stationed at the
opening of the late war. His career during
the war was that of cavalry officer, a hard
fighter, and a most successful one. He exem-
plified his organization in a most striking way, 
at once earnest, courageous, persistent, cautious, 
quick, and spirited. He gave to his men an 
intrepidity, confidence, and audacity like his
own, which enabled him to get a great deal
more work out of ten thousand men than
another commander would get from twenty
thousand. His presence with a command
fairly doubled its strength. Thus another of 
the "Old Guard" is gone.—Ex.


