SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The regular semi-monthly meeting was held
in the 14th Ward Assembly rooms, Aug. 18,
1888, Mrs.M. Isabella Horne presiding.  Singing,
"O My Father," etc. Prayer by Mrs. How-
ard.  Singing, "O say what is Truth," etc.
	President Horne addressed the audience
Hoping all were well; was very thankful to 
see them all again; had been very successful
while abroad in getting her records; had a very 
interesting experience by being able to meet
many who were interested in hearing about
the Gospel.  Had traveled 15,000 miles; met
many gentlemen and ladies,a very few ignorant
persons were rude and impolite. 
	"I also met many of the Saints.  I hope I
have sown some seed that will bring forth 
good fruit.  I visited an Industrial school


while in Liverpool which I very much ad-
mired for it is proving a great blessing to 1,000
little waifs who have no parents;  they are
taken good care of and taught different trades
that will help them to become useful members
to society.  I am very thankful that it is as 
well with us as it is.  I hope we will acknowl-
edge God in all things.  I pray you may all 
enjoy the blessings of God on you and that
you may have peace and the Spirit of God.
	Mrs. Silver sang  "We thank thee O God 
for a Prophet" etc.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor.  "I had perfect confi-
dence in the blessing that was promised on
Mrs. Horne before she left by one of the Apos-
tles; I felt all would be well with her; she was
ignorant of our doctrines and way of living as
there are.  We hope that many who are in in-
tense darkness in the world will yet be brought
to the light of the Gospel.  The gifts we have
are from our Heavenly Father.  Let us be
humble and faithful and overcome self, and 
bring ourselves into perfect subjection to the
will of God.  I hope we will try and live by
the light of the Spirit of God."
	Mrs. Watmongh.  "We are thankful that
Sister Horne has come home in safety.  I have 
an idea that all our testimonies are recorded
above and they are accepted by the Lord, and 
the better it will be for us thereafter the more
we bear.  May the Lord keep us faithful."
	Mrs. H. M. Whitney.  "I also feel to rejoice
over sister Horne's safe return.  The Lord
helped me to come to meeting to-day.  I plead
continually for the youth of Zion that they
may be kept in the ways of the Lord.  Many
will keep the faith, but some will sell their
birthright for a mess of pottage.  May God
help our young men and young women to learn
the ways of God and walk therein."
	Sister Jane Perkins: "I know this is the work
of God and I rejoice in it continually, and
may God keep us safe to our religion." 
Mrs. B. W. Smith.  "Do good to our
neighbor; keep the Sabbath day holy; attend
to our prayers; walk in the path of duty."
	Mrs. Dr. Barney.  "How do we know which
is the true church?  By the signs which follow
the believer.  We know by the scriptures be-
ing fulfilled in our day and in our church."
	Mrs. H. C. Young.  "We rejoice that we 
can read and understand the scriptures as they
are written.  The greatest knowledge we can
have is to understand the ways of the Lord
and the law of God is true learning." 
	Mrs. Stevenson spoke a short time very in-
terestingly concernimg her visit to England
and fullfillment of prophecy.
	A letter was read asking for assistance to
emigrate a family from England. 
	Mrs. Horne said a few words in closing. 
Singing "Praise to the Man," ect.  Benedic-
tion by Mary Silver.                         E H.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
[Continued.]
	Williamsburg, Thursday, May 20th.  We
are very tired after yesterday’s tramp.  I am
busy preparing to move on to-morrow.  I have
become much attached to my cousin and her
family; the boys think they would like to go to 
Utah; I should be so glad to have them; it
pains me very much to think that I may never
see them any more.  I expect to meet my
Aunt Cornelia, my father’s sister, at Lockport;
she is also aunt to cousin Ettie, and the rela-
tives, I have seen so far, are on my father’s
side.  Before reaching Lockport I shall visit
at Ithaca with my mother’s relatives.  I have
enjoyed my visit here very much, and seen 
such things as Ettie could show me, though we

[Column 2]
could be engaged many days more, and still
see but very little of the great city.
	In the afternoon we go over to New York to
take a last look.  It is quite like a museum to 
go through the large stores: they are on a 
magnificent scale.  We stop at Ridley’s, which
is one of the largest, and go through it, as we 
have done other places, just to see.  I make a 
few small purchases, and wish once more for a
longer purse.  Prices here are the lowest I
have seen.  The stores are closed at six oclock,
and an iron grating drawn in front of them.
We walk along, looking at many things of in-
terest on the sidewalk.  We see lovely things
in embroideries, laces and flowers; one large
show window is filled with dolls; the sign on it
reads, “The Babies on our block.” Dolls of
every size and description, some of them as 
large as a child two years old, and beautifully
dressed. 
	When we get tired of looking we return
home; call at the express office to have them 
take my trunk to the depot.
	Ithica, May 16th.  Weather cloudy; it rained 
a little in the morning.  I have said the last
goodbye.  It is always sad parting with those
we may never meet any more.  Cousin Charlie
came with me to the train.  We crossed the
river at Hoboken, the widest ferry I have
crossed yet.  I said goodbye to Charlie, and
sped away on the train to see new places and 
new faces.

	Farewell, friends, by distance parted,
	Who can part without regret?
	Memory claims the tender-hearted,
	And we may remember yet.  
			
	The trees and fields are green now, and nature 
is lovely after being shut in by high walls,
where one never steps on the ground and sees 
only houses.  After all the magnificence of
man, there is an exhilaration in nature’s differ-
ent aspects that gives to the the mind another
train of ideas.
	11:15 we stop at a nice little station.  The
hills are covered with grass and trees, farms
and orchards.  A cemetery is on the hillside,
and the white stones gleam among the foliage.
Pass the factory where the Beaty Organs are
made.  News agent going through the train
every five minutes with something for sale.  Pass
through a long tunnel and come out in a beau-
tiful country, “Lovely as a poet’s dream.” If
I could only place it on paper, but words can-
not convey an idea of the lovely scenery,
houses nestling among the trees, villages scat-
tered among the hills, farms wherever the loca-
tion will permit.  Pass through another long
tunnel and stop at a station.  Quite a number 
of people get on the train.  It looks strange to
see farms so high on the mountains; they look
like patchwork.  We pass a pretty cemetery; the
graves are covered with blossoms.  We are
traveling through the Blue Ridge Mountains.
Pass Portland, a pretty town; houses mostly
painted white.
	12 m.  Water Gap.  The Delaware River
runs through the mountains here.  The eve-
ning is fine.  We are going up a steep grade 
and the iron horse puffs hard.  We pass
through a timbered country.  Some one is try-
ing to clear a farm but it looks discouraging.
1 p.m.  Another tunnel.  The country is 
covered with verdure.  The Lightning Ex-
press goes by; it is well named.  We go
through pine woods and it looks as though we
were on the top of the mountains.  A few old 
frame houses are scattered along, but every-
thing denotes poverty.  Moscone, 1:30 A pic-
turesque town.  The mountains are not like 
ours; the hills are not so high, nor the canons
so deep. We are descending and pass through 
another tunnel.  This is five tunnels we have 
passed through.  Scranton Pa.  The train
stops for dinner.  Binghamton 4:15  A pretty 
city. Omega, 5 p.m. Change cars.  The coun-
try is hilly as we travel along the Susqeuhana


River. Reach Ithica at last and receive a 
kind welcome from my cousins. Find two let-
ters waiting for me.


