TO THE PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	The Primary Fair will open about the 12th
inst., in the building adjoining Elias Morris’
place on South Temple Street.  All who have
articles for exhibition will please deliver them
not later than Monday, Sept. 10th, at the
building where the fair will be held.
	On Friday, Sept. 7, the officers of the Prim-
ary Associations in the Salt Lake Stake will
meet at Mrs. E. C. Clawson’s residence, No. 22
First East Street, at 2 p.m.  A full attendance
is requested.
	On Saturday, Sept. 15, the conference of the
Primary Associations will convene in the As-
sembly Hall. Meeting will be held at 10 a.m.
and 2 p.m.
	Please note the dates—Officers' meeting,
Friday, Sept. 7; delivery of articles for the
fair, Monday, Sept. 10; conference, Saturday,
Sept. 15.
		ELLEN C. CLAWSON, President.


As we want more goodness and less devilish-
ness put into the ballot-boxes on election days.
I do not know a better plan to gain that end
than that of letting the better half of humanity
have an opportunity to vote.—Geo. R. Scott.
	Mille. Matilda de Noureigas, daugher of the
late minister from Portugal, who has been for
three years a pupil of Mme. Viardot-Garcia,
in Paris, will give a concert in New York this
month.  She has a beautiful voice, and will
sail in a few weeks to meet engagements in
Europe.
	No reason can be shown why a woman's 
vote in the State should not be received with
as much respect as in the family.  A State is
but an association of families, and laws relate
to the rights and immunities which touch 
woman's most private and immediate wants
and dearest hopes.—Harriet Beecher Stowe.
	"Carmen Sylva," the queen of Roumania,
is having a "poet's chamber" built, wherein to
write her poems.  It is constructed of reeds,
surrounded by a high hedge of roses.  In the
niche of the hedge cages of singing birds are
hidden, and in one corner there is a fountain
of perfumed water.  In the middle of the
room are a mossy bank and a great block of
rock covered with moss and hewn in the form
of a writing-desk. Upon this moss-grown
stone the queen poetess will indite her verses.
The ground is covered with a thick, soft car-
pet of green turf, and a hammock is slung on
one side with golden cords.—Ex.


