OBITUARY.

	DIED, in Centerville, Davis Co., August 8th, 1888, of
typhoid pneumonia, Sister Emeline Leavitt Smith, wife of
President William R. Smith, aged fifty-six years. Deceased
was born in Canada, in 1832, was baptized when abont
twelve years of age; shared in many of the trials and per-
secutions of the Saints. She lived in plural marriage with
her husband, and was true to her covenants. She was a 
faithful wife, a loving mother, a kind neighbor, and was
beloved by all who knew her. She was counselor in the
Relief Society for many years, which position she held at
the time of her death   She discharged all her duties
with credit to herself and the satisfaction of others. She
will be well remembered by many who have shared her
hospitality. She leaves a husband, three sons and four
daughters, a number of grandchildren and a host of 
friends to mourn her loss.

	Mary Ann Reeves was born February 12th, 1812, in the
town of Birmingham, in the County of Warwick, Eng-
land. Embraced the Gospel in the year 1840; in the year
1852 she, with her husband and three children, embarked
on the ship Ellen Maria to New Orleans, from thence up
the river to Kansas City, crossed the plains in A. O.
Smoot's company; her youngest child died and was buried
in the Black Hills; arrived in the valley September 3rd;
lived in Salt Lake City two years, after which she and her
family moved to Centerville, Davis County, which was her
home up to the time of her death. When the Relief So-
ciety was organized in Centerville, she was appointed
treasurer of the Society; she held that office for several
years. About ten days before she died she went to pay a 
visit to her daughter, who had gone to reside at Brigham 
City, where she was taken very sick, from which she never 
recovered, but died August 11th, 1888. Her remains
were brought to Centerville for interment. She was a kind
and affectionate mother, wife and friend. She died as she
had lived, a true and faithful Latter-day Saint, with a sure
hope and faith of coming forth in the resurrection of the
just.										A. C.


