EXTRACT FROM AN ELDER'S JOUR-
			NAL.

Dramatic factors in the worship of the "beast."
	A. Imposing architectural structures and
appurtenances. Arts and sciences, mainly, pic-
tures, statuary and music. Brilliancy, shining
ornamentations, chandeliers and wax lights.
Dressing gorgeous colors and fantastic shapes.
Pagan pompous ceremonies, rites and formulas
of liturgy. All calculated for charming ef-
fects.
	B. Expressions of extreme veneration for
something unexplained. Sudden changes, and
surprising shiftings. Activity, keeping the
attention extremely expectant. Mystic masses, 
novel sounds, tinkling of bells and burning of
incenses. Acute expressions of agony, joy,
sorrow, vehemence, etc. All unexplained in
purpose, and mystifying in effect.
	C. Ambiguous worship, and enigmatical
devotion. Predominant effect, sensational
emotion. Soul cravings starved on mys-
ticisms. Intoto: a strong hold of delusion.
And all together, "Mystery Babylon."


The Scandinavian Woman’s Congress was
held in Copenhagen, Denmark, in July last—
the first fruits in Europe of the movement to
organize a Woman’s Congress in every large
city. The delegates assembled from Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Finland, and Iceland, and
the attendance was about five hundred. The
meeting lasted three days, and the questions
discussed were, Woman Suffrage, Peace, Tem-
perance and Co-education. The status of
suffrage in the different countries was shown to
be as follows: In Denmark, municipal suffrage
was proposed to the Diet, but refused, and a
petition by Danish women will be sent in at
the next meeting; in Norway, the subject has
been laid before the Storthing, but not yet
carried, although there “exists an appreciation
of the question’s weight and importance; and
things are so luckily placed that with munici-
pal suffrage will follow political;" in Sweden
the women have municipal suffrage; in Finland,
they have municipal suffrage, and also the
right to sit on school boards and act as poor-
law guardians; and in Iceland, they have both
municipal and political suffrage, but are not
eligible to public office, while the taxes, which
are the condition of suffrage, are so heavy that
few women can take part.—Ex.


