TO LOUISE 
		    BY MAY SPENCER.
When thine eyes closed upon this world of care,
Closed to reopen on a scene more fair,
Sad hearts and breaking met and sorrowed there,
		Around thy bed, sweetheart. 
Still as an image graven out of stone,
White as a form of marble was thine own;
Sad voices whispered in a broken tone
		That thou wert dead, sweetheart.

Flowers are strewn upon thy lowly mound,
Tears are the dew that water all the ground,
Where thou art lying, far from sight and sound,
		In thy low bed, sweetheart.
But angel tones have whispered unto me,
Tho' thou hast vanished, where I cannot see,
Sad for our sadness, glad yet to be free,
		Thou art not dead, sweetheart.

And in the twilight I can dream I hear
Thy tender accents falling on my ear,
"Only my weary form is lying here,
		Here where you tread, sweetheart.
Turn from the mound where peacfully it lies,
I linger near and watch with loving eyes,
Tho' free from earth's worn garments and disguise, 
		I am not dead, sweetheart."
—Chicago Inter Ocean.


[For the Exponent.]
			SUNDERED.
	"What God has joined together, let no man put assun-
der."—Christian Marriage Service.

	No more, no more those welcome feet
	The pathway to my threshold beat;
	The joy his coming brought is o'er; 
	Those dear eyes light my home no more.

	He may not come; our cruel fate 	
	Pours out the bitter lees of hate;
	I'd fly to him with joy, but oh,
	For reason stern, I may not go!

	My willing feet, that fain would speed
	The way my yearning wishes lead,
	Are now compelled to tread the dust
	Not where they would but where they must.

	My eager hands, that fain would clasp
	His own in fond and fervent grasp,
	With patient labor strive to still 
	The trembling pains that through them thrill.

	My paling lips that fain would press
	Upon his brow a pure caress,
	May only breathe his name so low
	That none but God can hear or know.

	My eyes, that fain would scan his face,
	Delighting in each saintly grace,	
	Are now forbidden to behold,
	Save with a glance estranged and cold.

	Alas, that bonds of forged steel,
	Whose cold and heavy links I feel
	Enchaining me to duty grim,	
	Should also load and fetter him!

	Ah, well, my dear one, love is free,
	And from my true heart greeteth thee;
	And trust in God is still our own—
	We'll meet in prayer before His throne.
