PLURAL MARRIAGE.
     Not long since a friend of mine wished me
to give my views upon plural marriage. To 
illustrate this subject to your understanding I 
must say my experience has taught me there
is a great difference between the spirit of the 
world and that of the Gospel of our Savior.
With the spirit of the world, it is the most 
self-sacrificing principle that could be thought
of. But with the Gospel you can enter into 
the feelings of your friends, and do for them
as you would wish them to do by you, under
like circumstances; and take pleasure in show-
ing your love for them, having perfect con-
fidence that their feelings are the same for you.
But by the spirit of the world you could not
comprehend or believe such feelings were genu-
ine. The Savior taught that those who receive 
and obey the Gospel and take his yoke upon 
them, they would find the yoke easy, and the
burden light. 
	The law of Moses is the best lesson, or at 
least, best understood by the world. Pay
every one off in their own coin, and they will
readily see if it is acceptable when they meet it
themselves.
	The Gospel, St. Paul says, is a school master
to bring us to Christ. The primary lessons.
Christ’s law is of a higher grade, and requires 
more nobility of character, a greater love, with
light and intelligence, to make allowance for
small minds, who are only learning their pri-
mary lessons.
	In my youth I was taught to read the Bible,
and especially the New Testament. When the
message of the Gospel came to me in New
York I was a little past twenty years of age.
For a time I could not be persuaded to listen
to this new doctrine, but when I did, it 
looked so consistent that to be prepared for the
second coming of Christ there must be a peo-
ple who would apply their minds strictly to
His teachings I could believe nothing else, nor
have I since that time. I find that to believe
Christ's teachings practically you must be 
brought into circumstances to prove your in-
tegrity. 
	Plural marriage will do it in the full sense of 
the word. In it you will learn how much no-
bility of character you are capable of exercis-
ing and cherishing, and whether you have charity
in the true meaning of the word. You will find
how St. Paul defines the word in 1st Cor. 13th
chap.
	He says, Though I give all my goods to feed 
the poor and my body to be burned and have
not charity it profiteth me nothing.  He then
tells what charity is.  Allow me to say I have
been acquainted with the world for twenty
years outside of plural marriage and do know
of a certainty that there is as much unhappi-
ness outside; yes, much more than 1 have
known in it, when people of pure minds and
sincere and devoted hearts to Christ's teach-
ing have accopted it.  Such persons have a 
peace of mind the world can not give or take
away from them. Plural marriage will test
you to the center, even though your compan-
ion is a pure-minded and generous man.  If on
the contrary, you will live for a glory he fails
to attain to there need be no fear, for each will
have what we merit when we come into the 
presence of our Heavenly Father.  We learn
this from holy writ and believe it too. We 
also learn that woman although frail as she is
naturally, can be quite a help and a stay to a 
man who is measuring himself by the pattern
and living by the same rule called the golden
rule of Jesus the Saviour. 
	We also learn there is to be a class of peo-
ple who will be heirs and joint-heirs with
Jesus Christ. Romans, 8th chap., 17th verse.
	They must necessarily have the same oppo-
sition to meet that Jesus did, the same temp-
tations and also the same power to resist and

[Column 2]
overcome, or they could not merit the same
glory.  I remember at one time I heard Prest.
Young say:  "Never try to escape the affliction
you are called necessarily to pass through only
try and prepare yourself to meet it properly."
I notice it takes some people a long time to be
prepared to meet trouble with composure of 
mind.  Our Savior once said, if it is possible
let this cup pass by.  But not my will but 
Thine be done.
	St Paul says, "Be subject to the powers that
be, for all powers are ordained of God." St. 
Peter also 2nd chap. 13th verse, says: "Sub-
mit yourselves to every ordinance of man for 
the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as
supreme or the governors," etc.  Our Savior
also by precept and example did the same.
This is our rule of action all who have the
strength of mind and are sufficiently ac-
quainted with true principles will measure
themselves by this pattern feeling the assurance
that it must needs be that offences come:  But
woe to them by whom they come.
	There was a revelation given to the Pro-
phet Joseph, Jan: 19th, 1841, saying: "Verily,
verily I say unto you, That when I give a com-
mandment to any of the sons of men, to do a
work unto my name, and those sons of men, go 
with all their might, and with all they have to 
perform that work, and cease not their dili-
gence and their enemies come upon them and
hinder them from performing that work; be-
hold it behooveth me to require that work no
more at the hands of those sons of men, but to
accept their offering," But also says He will
hold those accountable, who hinder the work.
Is not it as much their duty to receive the
message to be ready for our Savior's second
coming to earth, as it was ours?  Are not we
all the children of God? How many give heed
to his commands:  For instance  the com-
mand given in the garden of Eden.  It is lost 
sight of entirely by many, and if kept at all it 
is by accident,  not from pure motives.  The
Lord judges by the motives and intents of the
heart. Is there anything impure in keeping
the commands of God, and especially when
done with pure minds and with real intent to
keep those commands. A blessing may be
turned into a curse when a wicked spirit leads 
the mind.  Our daily food is designed to 
strengthen and bless the person; yet it can be
used in such a manner as to cause sickness.
Consequently we need wisdom from the foun-
tain of light and intelligence daily; and in giv-
ing strict attention to the laws of God we will 
have this wisdom, whether in married life or
unmarried. Life is short at best; let us be
wise and seek wisdom from the fountain of
light and intelligence even of God our Father, 
who delights to bless all who trust in Him.
                                        M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Sept. 10, 1888.


Mme. E Gerard, a clever writer and the
author of several entertaining novels, must be
rather cosmopolitan in her tastes. She is a
Scotch woman born of French parents, and is
married to an Austrian officer.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe reached home
on the evening of September 10th.  The trip
across the Sound on the steamer was very quiet
and restful.  For the first time in several days
she was able to sleep peacefully, which she did
during nearly the entire trip.  She was accom-
panied by her son, the Rev. Charles E. Stowe,
and her daughters.  On reaching Hartford she
was able to ride in a hack to her home, suffer-
ing no detriment.  She was soon sleeping
quietly, and her condition is evidently much
improved.  Her son says she has had severe
attacks of nervous restlessness, or insomnia
bordering on acute mania, and at times there
have been symptoms of congestion of the brain.
Her condition is still critical, but not hopeless.


