WOMEN IN MEDICINE.
	"Once upon a time," says Herodotus, "in the
land of the wise there were no doctors," and,
we might add, once upon a time, not very
long ago, there were no women doctors, either
in the land of the wise, or any other land; but
behold the great change. Mankind have at
last awakened to the reality that we can not
only have women doctors, but that they are a
positive necessity. It is woman's nature to
lean to the ideal, the romantic, the pleasurable
side of life, to study literature, art and music,
to enjoy society in its happy phases, but
science, with its vast depths and difficulties,
has neither been sought nor desired by women
generally, and even if desired, the doors of
science have been closed in the faces of woman-
kind until a recent period. Even now, when
women are admitted into medical colleges, and
granted degrees, the majority of medical socie-
ties refuse admittance to women physicians.
Sydney Smith says it takes more time for a
women to make herself charming, than to make
herself learned, yet we know a woman who
has not only found time to be charming, but

[Column 2]

learned as well, and most of the readers of the
EXPONENT know her, too, for the good she has
done in the midst of the women of Utah.
	Romania B. Pratt was the first Utah woman
to devote herself to the study of medicine. She
one day saw a friend die, die for the want of
medical assistance. She says: "I saw her lying
on her bed, her life slowly ebbing away, and
no one near knew how to ease her pain or pre-
vent her death; it was a natural enough case,
and a little knowledge might have saved her.
Oh, how I longed to know something to do,
and at that moment I solemnly vowed to my-
self never to be found in such a position again,
and it was my aim ever afterward to arrange
my life-work that I might study the science
which would relieve suffering, appease pain,
prevent death."
	Mrs. Pratt was an educated, accomplished
young woman, and was very fond of music, an
accomplishment which she has utilized most
beneficially since becoming a physician, for
she says through practicing on the piano keys
her fingers attained a delicate touch, which is
quite necessary to a physician, especially in
operating on that tenderest organ, the eye,
one of her specialties. Mrs. Pratt entered the
Woman's Medical College in Philadelphia in
1873, and graduated four years later, 1877.
In the summer vacation between the college
terms of 1876-77 she filled the position as
student in the New England Hospital for
women and children in Boston, which she re-
garded as a very great privilege and advantage
to her. But not yet satisfied, she remained
sometime longer in Philadelphia, taking special
courses on the eye and ear at Willis' Hospital,
and a dispensary on Chestnut Street. After
leaving Philadelphia, she spent some time in
visiting Hydropathic institutions and hospitals,
remaining some weeks in the Elmira Water
Cure. In 1881-2 Mrs. Pratt again went East,
this time to the New York eye and ear Infirm-
ary, to further her knowledge in this speciality.
Dr. Pratt is an assiduous worker, and has done
incalculable good, not alone with her practice,
which is quite extensive and successful, but in
teaching to others. Ever since her return
from Philadelphia, she has had classes in
obstetrics, about twice a year or more, her
pupils coming mostly from the smaller settle-
ments, where there were no competent physi-
cians, and good midwives were a positive neces-
sity. Some seventy-five women have studied
under her instruction, and most of them have
passed a thorough examination under the
leading physicians of the city, thus obtaining
certificates authorizing them to practice in
midwifery. Dr. Pratt urged the necessity of a
Hospital almost immediately after her return
from college, and since the founding of the
Deseret Hospital, has been an earnest worker
in its behalf, and now most faithfully and
satisfactorily occupies the position of Resident
Physician.
	Notwithstanding all Dr. Pratt has accom-
plished, her life-work is scarcely begun, for,
still young and full of energy, her labors con
tinue incessantly, and her great desire for
knowledge compels her to devote much time to
study, that she may improve every passing
hour. With all her practice and study, the
Doctor often finds a few moments for music,
painting and light needle work. Her charm-
ing countenance, the picture of health and en-
joyment, draws one naturally towards her, and

[Column 3]

her busy life seems as happy as it is useful.
May it long continue so.
	Almost at the same time, or shortly after,
Dr. Pratt began the study of medicine, there
were others who saw the necessity of women
physicians in Utah, and who were filled with a
desire to become proficient in the profession.
What has been said of Dr. Pratt's work in
medicine, might also be said of the other lady
physicians, with little difference concerning
specialties, etc.
	Ellis R. Shipp was the second Mormon
woman to graduate in medicine. She left
home in 1875, and received her degree in
1878. Mrs. Shipp had been always much de-
voted to her home and family, and it was a
great effort for her to leave her home and
young children for so long a time, but she
realized the great benefit which must follow
the separation, not only to them and herself,
but to others, and she overcame her tender
longings for home and the hearthstone, for the
good she might do. The poet says, "The ten-
derest are the bravest," and Mrs. Shipp has
proven it true. While ardently engaged in
her studies at college, and attending the
lectures and operations in the surgery, Mrs.
Shipp was in delicate health. She passed
through, with proud and faithful resignation,
the hopeful, anxious time of motherhood, giv-
ing birth, while still at college, to a beautiful
child, on the 25th of May, 1877. As soon as
her attendants allowed, she was again engaged
in her studies, with her little new born babe
constantly near, that she might care for her,
herself. In the face of this devotion, who can
say that science for women ruins the home;
nor did the love and care of the child hinder
in any way the progress of the mother's studies,
but, on the contrary, the new life, the new joy
but enhanced the pleasure of the college life,
and Mrs. Shipp obtained as high a degree and
in as short a period as others who had no
children near to engage their time and atten-
tion. She left college not without her degree,
but with the highest compliments and recom-
mendations from the professors.
	Returning home, Dr. Ellis Shipp spent some
time lecturing through southern Utah, and
found many occasions on her way for practis-
ing her profession; also saw the great necessity
for classes in obstetrics, and later, when open-
ing her practice in Salt Lake, she gave instruc-
tions, and some sixty women have graduated
from her classes, passing successful examina-
tions under the leading physicians. The Dr.
is very popular, especially among her patients,
for her beautiful sympathetic bearing consoles
the suffering one, while her great self-control
and dignity gives one the most perfect confi-
dence in her ability. Mrs. Ellis Shipp has re-
fined and literary tastes, and she occasionally
rests her busy mind by revelling in the
pleasures of the Muses, and the EXPONENT
sometimes receives a beautiful gift from her
pen. Her poems are always pretty, and cause
one to wish she had more time for cultivating
her poetic talent. Dr. Ellis is at present
engaged, aside from her practice and classes, in
publishing a medical journal, in connection
with Dr. Maggie Shipp, the only medical
journal in Utah, and so, of course, what time 
she has for literary work is at present employed
on her own paper. The practice of medicine
is much the same to one as another, and it is
difficult to narrate the different physicians'
work without constant repetitions, for our lady


[Column 1]

physicans have mostly been similarly situated,
have alike seen the great field awaiting them,
and have been charming, intellectual women,
thirsting for more knowledge, and with minds
not only ready for science, but eager to grasp
every opportunity for it.
	T. W. Higginson says: "Women peculiarly
need science, since their natural bent is sup-
posed to be a little the other way." This may
be, generally speaking, true, but our third lady
graduate in medicine is an exception; her
natural bent always seemed to be towards
science—Mattie Paul Hughes—a bright, beau-
tiful, attractive girl, whose society was eagerly
sought, on account of her intellectual qualities,
her wit and her pleasant bearing.
	Miss Hughes was naturally a leader among
her friends, possessed of strong and good
opinions and an independent nature. She be-
gan when quite a child to earn her own
money, commencing early at type setting, in
which work she rapidly became proficient.
The day taken up in work, gave her little
time for study and much less for pleasure, but,
too ambitious to idle away an hour of time,
she spent all the spare moments in hard study.
Miss Hughes took a course in chemistry at the
Deseret University, and studied obstetrics and
medicine under Dr. Pratt, in the meantime
depriving herself of many pleasures and
fancies girls of her age so much enjoy, and
saving her earnings for furthering her advance-
ment in medicine.
	In 1878 Miss Hughes left her home and
entered the Michigan University at Ann
Arbor, where, after two years, she graduated
as an M. D During her vacations at Ann
Arbor, she practised her profession, thus earning
means to attend the State University of Penn-
sylvania, and in two years graduated there-
from as a Bachelor of Science, the only
woman in the graduating class. She also
graduated with honors from the National
School of Elocution and Oratory in Philadel-
phia, and spent much time in preparing her-
self for literary work and lecturing.
	Miss Hughes for some time very satisfactor-
ily held the position of Resident Physician at
the Deseret Hospital, and has always been held
in high regard among the medical fraternity.
Her career has been onward and upward almost
without a halt. Full of ambition, she found
no obstacle, for her fearlessness and self-mastery
would not allow her to hesitate, and her rapid
progress has been mostly due to her great
strength of character, which carried her
through every difficulty on to victory. Miss
Hughes now, aside from her practice, enjoys
the position of Lady Instructress at the Salt
Lake Stake Academy, a position she is sure to
fill with the utmost grace.
	Among the bravest of our women doctors,
those who have fought a battle all their lives
against adverse circumstances, and now in the
glories of science finds rest and pleasure, must
be mentioned Dr. Elvira S. Barney. Her life
is so full of daring, enduring, suffering, help-
ing,  working chapters, that in this brief paper
we dare scarcely glance back over the interest-
ing pages, and as we have before mentioned
this lady among the educators and missionaries,
must here only relate some of her medical ex-
periences.
	It was rather late that she chose the profes-
sion of medicine, but in it she has been very
successful nevertheless. After some few years
spent in self-instruction in chemistry and
medicine, and also pursuing a course of
chemistry in the Deseret University in this
city, Mrs. Barney decided to go to the East to
further promote her studies, and there entered
first the University at Ann Arbor, and subse-
quently other colleges, in Wisconsin and Penn-
sylvania, returning home in 1883, ready to
enter upon her practice. One of the most un-
selfish and philanthropic acts of her life was, 

[Column 2]

when shortly after her return home, full of zeal
to do good, she fitted up her large house for
lady boarders, and invited all who desired to
come to a shelter under her roof, where she
would give gratuitous preparatory instruction
for one year, hoping many young women 
would take advantage of this opportunity, and
thus begin a life of usefulness.
	There have been many other women who
have taken delight in the pursuit of medical
science, and one of the most popular and
efficient practitioners is Dr. Margaret C. Shipp.
She went East to Philadelphia to the Woman's
Medical College of Penn. in the fall of 1875.
Returning home during vacation, she remained
some time, then returned, and graduated in the
spring of 1882, and has ever since enjoyed a large
practice; has lectured in nearly every settlement
in this Territory; also taught classes in obstet-
rics, having qualified nearly forty ladies to act
as skillfull nurses and competent obstetricians.
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp has a classical
head and face, and possesses very rare
qualities of heart and mind, and with a
sincere love for her chosen profession, must
necessarily meet with great success. She is
socially a charming lady, deep religious con-
victions and a very magnetic nature, one
naturally feels drawn towards her, and her
patients almost feel for her the love and confi-
dence that a child holds in its mother.
	Necessity, positions of dependence, unhappy
homes and such things, sometimes urge child-
ren forth in the world to seek a livlihood and
independence, but it seldom occurs  that those
raised in the lap of luxury, with willing and
loving parents and friends always ready to
shower the pleasures and accomplishments,
that only wealth can buy, upon them, rush
forth from the luxurious home to battle and
struggle with a difficult science, yet Utah
boasts at least three such rash (?) maidens, and
now counts them among the medical fraternity
successful in their professions as they are
beautiful and charming in their appearance—
Miss Emma Atkin, the Misses Belle and Justina
Anderson, The former began her medical
studies under Dr. Pratt, and graduated from
the Philadelphia College. Since her return
home she has found a large practice in Juab
County, feeling that Salt Lake was crowded
with physicians, and she could be of more use
in an outer settlement; but her practice is not
confined to the one county; so proficient has
she proven to be in her profession, that she is
sent for from distant settlements. Strange, in-
deed, does it seem to see a lady so young travel-
ing hither and thither in all sorts of weather
and all sorts of conveyances, with her cases of
instruments and medicine, striving to aid and
relieve the suffering. So youthful, with her
frank, happy smile and guileless ways, did Miss
Atkin appear when she began her medical
career, that she seemed indeed, a child.
	The Misses Anderson, daughters of a most
learned physician, early began the study of
Latin under their father's instruction, and as-
sisted him some in his laboratory and his chemi-
cal operations. They found the greatest
delight in their father's study, and as children
at play learned more than many do at hard
study. The older, Miss Belle, soon after her
graduating from Ann Arbor, began practice
for herself at home, and has not only built up
a practice of importance, but has greatly assisted
her father, whose health is very poor. Miss
Justina was one year at Wellesley College,
where she took a literary course of study,
after which she attended the Michigan Univer-
sity, and emerged therefrom a full-fledged M.
D. Her future bids fair to be very bright,
and she is likely to become as successful and
as popular as her sister.
	There are many lady graduates from the
classes of the Drs. Pratt and Shipp who have

[Column 3]

extensive practice in the outer settlements, and
who are preparing to take a further course in
some eastern college. Among these we will men-
tion only one, Mrs. Mary E. Vanschoonhoven,
who is about ready to enter college. She has
been very industrious in her studies, and has,
even without a diploma, gained a large practice.
Her knowledge of medicines is very good, as
she was for some time dispensary clerk in the
Deseret Hospital. We have mentioned quite
an army of medical women, and still have,
doubtless, omitted some just as proficient, just
as successful, but our endeavor has been to
bring forth those women who, if not born in
Utah, have spent the greater part of their lives
here.
	They all are leading women in the com-
munity, and stand high in the regard of the
people. Their lives are devoted to a great
and holy work. Where they enter none others
can; they behold that happiest moment in
woman's life, when the agonizing pain is lost,
in the joy of a child just given; they enter the
darkened chamber, where the raging fever
claims the mind and aims to seize the body of
its victim, and they contend and fight this
dreadful foe, and by their skill see a mind re-
stored, a body saved; they are found when sud-
den accidents befall one, replacing the disjointed,
broken bones, and giving such happiness to
the afflicted, as only one can give who restores
or mends the body. Their work is noble and
sublime, and must for these very reasons give
them happiness and pleasure. Success and
glory attend you—women doctors.
	In other of the higher professions the women
of Utah have little representation. In law
there is, I believe, only one who ever was ad-
mitted to the bar—Miss Georgie Snow—and
she never practiced very extensively, spending
most of her time aiding her father in his work
—himself a lawyer. In Art and Music there
are scores of young women among us, who
have shown great ability and talent, but they
confine their work mostly to the ornamenting
of their own homes and the entertainment of
their friends, and as yet none of them have
chosen the work which so delights them, as a
profession.
	Utah boasts of her fair fields, her beautiful
gardens, her magnificent scenery, her generous
climate, her brave men and her many and
bright children; let her boast of her women,
too, for have we not here made a fair compari-
son of woman's work in Utah with woman's
work so praised at the National Council, which
is yet ringing through the land? Can any one
sister State out-rival us in woman's work?
	It seems to be the aim among the people of
Utah to advance womankind beyond the ordin-
ary paths, and cause her to become more inde-
pendent, more self-assisting, more progressive.
	Addison says:
	"I have often thought there has not been
sufficient pains taken in finding out proper em-
ployment and diversions for the fair ones. Their
amusements seem contrived for them, rather
as they are women than as they are reasonable
creatures, and are more adapted to the sex
than to the species. The toilet is their great
scene of business.	*	*	*	Their
more serious occupations are sewing and em-
broidery, and their greatest drudgery the pre-
paration of jellies and sweetmeats.
	"This, I say, is the state of ordinary woemn;
though I know there are multitudes of those
of a more elevated life and conversation, that
move in an exalted sphere of knowledge and
virtue, that join all the beauties of the mind
to the ornaments of dress, and inspire a kind
of awe and respect, as well as love."	*	*
	We claim the latter paragraph, Addison's
exception, to be the character of the women of
Utah.
