A PLEASANT TRIP.
				
	The twelfth day of June, calm and lovely,
as only June days can be, found two of the 
little army of missionary women among the
Saints, on the north bound train, enjoying the 
charming scenery of mountain and vale, lake
and river, fields and farms, orchards and thrifty
homes, fragrant rose bloom hedges and meadows
green, and the thousand attractions between
Salt Lake and Brigham City. 
	Amid the glow and glory of a famous Utah
sunset, we were driven up the beautiful, shady 
boulevard leading into the latter place. Even-
ing shades encircled us in the sweet hospitality
of Stake Prest. Minnie J. Snow, to whom our 
hearts instinctively went out with the precious 
sense of congenial friendship. Her home is 
such a haven of peace and rest, that morning 
found us refreshed and with courage somewhat 
renewed, to bear the responsibilities of the 
day, that loomed up like the tallest mountain
peak—as these were not of of our own seeking, 
having been called by the voice of God to His 
labors, we earnestly and humbly sought for 
grace to discharge each duty.  
	At 10 o'clock a.m., June 13th, the Y. L. M. 
I. A. Stake Conference convened in the Taber-
nacle. The stands and organ were most 
charmingly adorned with the queen of flowers
and her sisters of every hue, displaying the 
taste and refinement of the young ladies of the 
Box Elder Stake. A large audience of fresh, 
young, intelligent faces, like a flock of hungry 
lambs seeking the bread of life, was a beauti-
ful sight. The stands were occupied by the 
officers of the various associations, and the 
sweet singers of Zion, whose music was a de-
lightful feature. An excellent programme
throughout, the subjects of the various essays 
well chosen, and treated with such intelligence, 
that it was gratifying to know that they were 
the productions of our mountain girls. It is 
sometimes astonishing, even to those who know
their worth, to see the daughters of the Saints
stand forth, and with true eloquence discourse
upon the science of their religion, and other 
subjects necessary to the development, educa-
tion and culture of women. The duties of 
maiden, wife and mother, the care of home, 
rearing of children, the sciences, arts and pro-
fessions, all received some consideration.  
	At the afternoon session the house was full.  
Prest. Rudger Clawson and other brethren 
showed their appreciation of the sisters labors


by their presence, good counsel and words of
encouragement.  All the speeches were short 
and spirited.  The gift of tongues was exercised
by a young sister;  a sweet influence of peace
prevailed, and all felt a sacred nearness to the
fountain of all our blessings, and I think our
hearts could have found expression in the good
old hymn, "It is good to be a Saint of latter
days." 
	In the evening a hastily improvised "surprise
party," of about thirty-five young ladies
quietly ensconced itself in the parlor of Sister, 
Snow, for the purpose—as a young lady said in
a neat little speech—"To show our apprecia-
tion of the visit of the ladies from the Salt
Lake Stake, and to become better acquainted
socially."
	A sweeter reunion could not well be im-
agined.  The genuine affability, grace, wit and
wisdom indulged in, without effort, was truly
entertaining.  Two hours quickly sped, with
music, songs, recitations and social chat, when
the girls begged for another  meeting. Such
earnest entreaty could not be resisted, nor such
faith denied, and till after midnight we en-
joyed a sacred soul feast, such as only those
can know who are seeking first the kingdom of
God and its righteousness, and have chosen
that "better part" spoken of by our Savior, 
when the spiritual-minded Mary sat at His feet, 
eager for a knowledge of heavenly things.  In
prayer and praise all hearts blended;  the Spirit
of God was poured out mightily, all worldly
cares and pleasures were forgotten.  One sister
sang sweetly a song of Zion, whose power and
influence thrilled the soul with heavenly joy. 
Many were melted to tears, and testified that
they had never experienced such happiness
or before received a testimony of the Gospel. 
For a time we caught a glimpse of the charity
that "thinketh no evil," that pure love of Christ
which hides every defect, and makes one will-
ing to lay down his life for his brother and
sacrifice every earthly comfort to save a soul
from sin and bring him into the light, love and
peace, which only the Gospel can give. 
	Over this memorable midnight hour—the
wedding anniversaries of Prest. M. J. Snow
and one of the visitors—we shook hands
cordially;  congratulations and good wishes
were exchanged, and the Autobiograbhy of 
Apostle Lorenzo Snow, compiled by his 
talented sister, E. R. Snow Smith, was grace-
fully presented as a memento of the happy oc-
casion, while sincere hopes were expressed that
the day would come when the wedding day of
the plural wife could be celebrated with public 
approval and satisfaction to all. 
	Strawberries and cream was next in order—
a women's convention of three—a pleasant
chat over the events of the day, recalling a
ride through the lovely city of foliage and
flowers, with strawberries and cake in the
parlor of Sister Amy Madson, and as the town
clock tolled the "wee sma hours,"  we sank to
rest, trusting the result of our endeavors to 
One who overrules all things for the good of
those who seek and serve Him.
	According to pre-arrangement of the young
ladies of Willard we drove to that picturesque
little town the next day through a charming
stretch of rural scenery, towering above us a
mountain peak covered with eternal snow, cast
its shadow over fragrant clover fields, that al-
most touch the waves of Salt Lake.  One of
the best of dinners and a few sisters awaited 
us at the home of Sister Zundell. 
	A well filled meeting house at 2 p.m.  Among
the audience was a bevy of blooming girls
from Brigham, their appetites for the good
things of the Gospel sharpened by the feast of
the day previous.  Another time of rejoicing,
peace and improvement, when the power of
God was poured out in a refreshing shower;
then a hasty retreat to the capitol to attend an 
officers' meeting at five.
[column 2]
	Homeward bound the following day, carry-
ing with us the sweetest assurances of appre-
ciation ever known, and the knowledge that in
Box Elder Stake were many of the daughters
of Zion, who have indeed become "polished
after the similitude of a palace"—beaming
with beauty, charming, with innocent grace, 
and favored of God for their faith in His Gos-
pel, and their earnest endeavors to mould and
fashion their lives according to its require-
ments.  
	May the seed scattered by the wayside with
trembling hands yield a good harvest in the
rich soil of those innocent, faithful hearts. 
That our visit may be recorded as the starting
point to higher and nobler aspirations and
endeavors, is the wish of the highly favored
visitors. 
