	MRS. ELIZABETH LISLE SAXON AND MRS.
CLARA B. COLBY, two distinguished ladies of the
National Woman Suffrage Association, are ex-
pected in Salt Lake City on the 23rd inst., and
will give one or two lectures in the Salt Lake
Theatre.  Mrs. Saxon is a poet and a newspaper
correspondent, as well as a lecturer.  She speaks
upon Womnn Suffrage, Temperance and Social
Purity, and made "a decided hit" at the Interna-
tion Council at Washington, last April, when she
spoke upon the last named subject.  Mrs. Saxon
visited this city in the fall of 1882, and remained
here some little time.  Mrs. Colby is not only a
lecturer, but is also the Editor of the Woman's
Tribune, the official organ of the N. W. S. A.,
which is a weekly paper, published regularly in
Beatrice, Neb., but during the International Coun-
cil it was published daily in Washington, D. C.,
giving all the items of the Council and Conven-
tion, and the speeches and addresses in full. Both
these ladies have a national reputation, and both
were speakers at the International Council. The
ladies of this city, will, doubtless, give them a
cordial welcome.  They come here from the
Northwest, Oregon—and Washington Territory,
where they have been traveling and giving lectures
on the subjects named.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY FAIR.
	The Children's Fair was open for four days,
commencing on Wednesday, the 12th inst., and
continuing until the end of the week. There was
quite a creditable representation made of the little
people's work. As it is utterly impossible "to tell
it all" we shall not make the attempt, but only
particularize some of the very best articles on ex-
hibition.
	Of the country wards we noticed Big Cotton-
wood, Mill Creek, Draper and North Jordan had

[Column 2]
a variety of useful and ornamental articles, nicely
arranged on the tables. From Big Cottonwood
there was a hammer and chisel in iron work.
made by little boys, and so well done, that no one
could help admiring the workmanship; also
bread and pies by little boys and very
fine potatoes and other vegetables, raised
by them. A map of the United States, drawn and
colored by a little girl, showed very good
ability; there was also, from quite small boys of 
that ward, a ladder and rake, and from a girl old-
fashioned heavy woolen gloves, hooked, patchwork
quilts, plain sewing, ornamental needlework, and
many pretty things beside.
	Draper Ward, there was a very well made and
perfect shoe made by a boy; also vegetables
raised by boys, and cooking done by them; from
one of the girls a piece of home-made carpet, well
woven; the same little girl can put a piece into the
loom herself.
	North Jordan Ward had wax flowers, some
other handsome work, but the most unique article
was a bridle made of cord and horsehair, by a
little fellow who had also made the machine in
which it was manufactured; the bridle is very
strong and quite a curiosity.
	Mill Creek Ward, velvet pincushion worked in
the finest silk, very elaborately, and several other
articles of value. 
	Third Ward, Salt Lake City, had so many very
good things on their table, that it was rather
difficult to select what was most appropriate to
mention. In patchwork there was some over and
over hand sewing by a little girl four years old;
that child deserves to be praised; comb case cut
in wood work by a little boy, horseshoe covered
with velvet, edges corded, very neatly done, for
ornament, knitted tidy, made in flowers, very
handsome throw downs, in beautiful colors;
a patchwork quilt cover, neatly made, each seam
carefully pressed, the work all done by a small
boy; some drawings in very good taste by a boy
of the same ward.
	Of the city wards, there were many useful and
ornamental articles, made by little girls and boys,
all of them quite young, ranging in age from four
to fourteen, but as it is quite impossible to particu-
larize, we can only give a few, and say there were
many more just as good.
	Second Ward, very odd and handsome white
apron, elaborate crochet inserting and edging,
little girl.
	Fourth Ward, a cup and saucer in crochet work
by a little girl, that attracted the attention of all
who came in; flower painting, by a little girl from
the same ward, well done; also underclothing in
plain hand sewing.
	Sixth Ward, home-knit stockings, little girl;
card receiver in stars, made of thread on cut
pasteboard and bound, bows of ribbon; ribbon
work, banner worked on velvet, and other articles.
	Eighth Ward, a handkerchief bag made of a
towel, very pretty, by a little girl; sun-flowers,
large sized ones, so perfectly natural that any one
might pick them up thinking they were real; also
pretty wax flowers, and many other things.
	Tenth Ward made a good representotion of
various articles; fruit very good, and a handsome
quilt.
	Thirteenth Ward had an Essay on the First
Principles of the Gospel, written by a little girl
which deserves special mention, as to correctness
of style and expression; also from that ward a
very handsome ornamental banner, silk and tinsel
work, and a child's apron in colors, done in etch-
ing, and a handkerchief and reticule in novelty
lace.
	Fourteenth Ward had some hand sewing on
underclothing, very neatly done, and child's dress
made by hand, tucking, embroidery and button
holes, all very good indeed; wool flowers, hand-
somely framed, and very unique yellow and scarlet
tidy, crochet work; also daisy mats and crochet
lace.

[Column 3]
	Fifteenth Ward, there was quite a number of
useful and ornamental articles; there were the two
small trunks made by quite young boys; they were
examined carefully, and pronounced excellent
work; some very neat stocking darning by little
girls; very pretty and showy crazy quilts.
	Sixteenth Ward, an engine complete on wheels
made by a little boy (U. N. Narrow Guage); also a
wooden sled, by a boy, and a wheelbarrow from
another.
	Seventeenth Ward, a handsome reticule, made
of a silk handkerchief; crochet skirt, handsome
tidy, velvet and ribbon tidies, aprons, etc.; doll's
bed, made and trimmed, spread, shams and the
ruffles on the sham sheet composed of 72 scraps of
embroidery, neatly and regularly put together, by
a little girl; this was one of the curiosities. 
	Eighteenth Ward, some pencil sketches, by a
very little girl; also ornamental snowball, made of
white paper.
	Twenty-first Ward made quite a display. A
little wooden cradle, by a boy, was quite well
made; also a wooden knife box, made and painted;
there was very nice hand sewing by the little
girls, small dresses for children, made by hand,
pillow slips, etc. Of tidies, quilts, stockings,
cookery, preserves, and many odd things, there
was a great variety, and all very good.
	Certainly a great deal has been accomplished
by the children through the agency of the Prim-
aries, and the perseverance, patience and untiring
energy of the sisters who have had charge of
these helpful associations. They most assuredly
deserve the praise and the encouragement of all
interested in the rising generation. Theirs is a
great and noble work, and they should have all the
aid and assistance needful to help them in their
arduous labors.


