	SALT LAKE STAKE.	
The Relief Society Conference of this Stake
of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, on Thursday, September 13th, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne presiding. After the usual
opening exercises, the Secretary called the
president’s roll. Twenty-five presidents and
five counselors reported, representing, thirty
branches of the Relief Society. Minutes of
previous conference read and accepted.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball addressed the meeting.
She spoke of her recent visit to San Francisco
and other parts of California, and the ideas
people outside entertained of our people; de-
scribed an interesting visit to a celebrated
church, and remarked that her visit had en-
larged her charity for those who were not of
our faith.
	Mrs. Ellen Barton spoke a short time; she
had recently returned from a visit to England;
had enjoyed her visit very much indeed, but
was glad to be at home again; thought the con-
dition of the world pitiable, because of their
willingness to accept evil reports, and their
lack of desire to hear the Gospel.	
	Prest. Horne spoke particularly about the
semi-annual reports being prapared to send in
to the Secretary as early as the 25th of Feb.
and of August, so that a correct report may be
made in time to read at the Stake conference in
March before the General Conference in April;
also in September before the General Confer-
ence in October. Hoped the sisters who had
so liberally sustained the Hospital would be
blest fourfold, and advised them to continue in
their good work. 
	Adjourned to 3 p.m. Singing, ,‘Doxology.”
Benediction by Mrs. B. W. Smith.
	Afternoon session: After the usual exercises
of singing and prayer, Mrs. B. W. Smith ad-
dressed the conference; spoke of the encourag-
ing reports that had been read and of the
Primary Fair; thought it a good showing, and
urged those present to go and encourage the
little workers. Advised the sisters to teach
the children to be faithful, truthful, honest and
industrious.	
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor considered it one of the
first duties of the Relief Society to attend the
conference. The organizations were by the
Prophet Brigham Young, that we might be
prepared for our many duties. Spoke of the
carelessness and lack of energy of some who
had been heretofore more diligent, and urged
those present to exhort, persuade and encourage
others to know and understand, and gain the
reward we have started out for.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought it was very com-
mon, to excuse ourselves in not doing our duty;
felt that we ought to attend the meetings con-
vened for our improvement, that we might
gain intelligence, wisdom and understanding.


Urged the sisters to read more, and learn what 
was transpiring here and elsewhere; thought
our lives and characters and example should 
be so exemplary as to refute the evil reports
circulated against us.  Mentioned the proposed 
visit of Mrs. Saxon and Mrs. Colby, two dis-
tinguished suffrage women and public speakers, 
and hoped the sisters would attend their 
lectures.  Advised the mothers to teach the
children to be industrious, as it prevented a 
great deal of mischief, and also to see that the 
children attended the Sunday School and Prim-
ary Association.  
	Mrs. E. Yates, Prest.  of the Relief Society 
of Millard Stake, bore a strong testimony to 
the truth of this work, and spoke of the scat-
tered condition of the settlements in the Stake 
where she presided, and the difficulty of meet-
ing together often under those circumstances.  
She gave the mothers good counsel in regard 
to controlling their children, and teaching 
them when very young.  Spoke eloquently 
upon Temple work, required at our hands, and 
the preparation we ought to make in order to 
perform it.  Related an interesting incident 
that occurred to a brother in Sanpete, urging 
him to perform the work for the dead.  
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze thought we should obtain 
the records of our ancestors, and leave it in 
proper order for our children if we could not 
do the work ourselves.  Exhorted all to dili-
gence in the path that leads to eternal life. 
Said many good things in a happy manner.  
	Mrs. R. Jones occupied a few minutes in 
speaking of the labors and duties devolving 
upon the sisters; thought we were not aware of 
the great responsibilities; we had entered upon 
a labor of love and life; let us help each other.  
Referred feelingly to the training of the young
people in keeping the commandments of God.  
	Prest. Horne: "Our pure minds require to 
be stirred up by way of remembrance, that we 
may not fall into a state of lethargy, that we 
may receive the bread of life that comes from 
above, which we require every day."  She 
related a dream of Mrs. Saxon's, the lady who 
is about to visit Salt Lake, that she had told 
when here on a visit in 1882.  Mrs. Horne 
pointed out the meaning,etc.	*	*	*	Spoke
of her visit to the old Church of St. Martyn's
when in England, recently, and said that over the 
entrance was the inscription:  "Holiness to the 
Lord," sbowing that they still retained that 
ancient custom of Israel.  She spoke upon the 
principle of tithing, and said she well remem-
bered when a girl, that every 10th shock of 
wheat in a field had a green bough stuck in it, 
denoting that the 10th shock was held sacred
for the ministry.  Urged the sisters to attend to 
paying tithing; also to cultivate humility, that
they might not be easily overcome by the 
follies of life.  
	Con-erence adjourned until December.  Sing-
ing, "Our God, we raise to Thee."  Benedic-
tion by Mrs. E. Howard. 
		E. HOWARD, Stake Secretary R. S.


