	(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

			[Continued.]
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor, Territorial President
of Y. L. M. I. A., said:
	In standing before you, I ask an interest in your
faith and prayers, that I may have strength of
 voice to enable you to hear the few remarks I
may make.  While I have been sitting here to-day,
I have had very peculiar feelings.  The last time
I was upon this stand, we had our beloved sister,
Eliza R. Snow Smith, with us. To-day I have
felt that not only her spirit was here listening,
prompting and influencing us, but that the spirit of
our beloved Prophet, Brigham Young, was here.
It is a proud day for this Stake of Zion. I feel

[Column 2]
thankful that God, our Heavenly Father, spared
Sister Richards to live to this time, and has in-
spired her to celebrate this anniversary; for to us,
the sisters of Zion, this is a great day—to think
that we have been organized into Stakes in the 
capacity that we have in order that the work may 
be more completely carried on, and in order that
there may be a nucleus around which other Stakes
may cluster, and one who shall oversee the inter-
ests of that Stake in the capacity of a President.
This is another of the institutions that God in-
spired each great and good man, Brigham Young,
to organize, and adds to that perfect system and 
organization in this Church. It is great and beau-
tiful, complete in all its departments.  Can you
look around you, upon the face of the whole earth,
and find another such institution, where everything
works in harmony—where we have a head that
can guide and direct all the affairs of the 
Church, and from the head we follow down and
see how perfectly everything is organized. There
need no one clash with the interests of another,
but all are working in their respective spheres;
there is harmony, there is order, and this is the
greatest work that ever was set to be accomplished,
and is to be accomplished through this order and 
organization. I bear my testimony of its divinity.
I know there is no other source through which 
this perfect order and system could come, than
the revelation of Almighty God. I believe
they have, that is the Relief Soceity and the
Y. L. M. I. A., been revealed of God; and I feel
that we, as the women of Zion, have been blessed
above all other women upon the face of the earth.
And it is with these blessings that follows the re-
sponsibilities.  We should be models—women
that the whole world might pattern after for purity,
virtue, integrity and faithfulness in keeping the
commandments of God. For God has indeed
blessed us and exalted us, as women in His crea-
tion. We have our own position. We are unlike
the rest of the world asking for our rights. We
have them given to us of God, the Eternal Father.
And we have our own position marked out for us;
and, my sisters, I know that every true woman
desires to keep her position. We know that God 
created man as our head. We wish to honor him
in that position.  But we have our rights and
privileges, and positions of trust, and we have re-
sponsibilities as great as any of our brethren. As
has been said this morning, there is no greater re-
sponsibility in humanity than rests upon mothers;
and our daughters have responsibilities also.
That is the purpose of the Young Ladies meet-
ings, to prepare them for the great future which
they are expected to occupy.  The kingdom is
growing, notwithstanding that our enemies are
doing all they can against us, still the work is 
rolling on; and we, as sisters of the Relief Society,
and members of the Y. L. M. I. A. throughout
Zion, we have our part to perform; and it is no
light matter we have to perform. We have an
influence, as a people; and the women have an in-
fluence that is felt for good; and the President of
our Stake has said, he is proud of the women
who have stood up under trials and persecutions,
and have maintained their position and have given
their all and been firm and faithful at all times. I
heard one of the Apostles say that he did not
know any of the sisters who had turned their
backs upon the principles God had established—
that they preferred to go to prison, rather than
betray their husbands and deny that which had
been entrusted to them. 
	I know among the young daughters of Zion
there are many noble spirits, who are preparing
themselves for the great and mighty work of the
future. They are preparing themselves for wives 
and mothers, for the highest glory of woman is to
be a mother. They are preparing themselves and
educating themselves for their great mission in
the principles of the Gospel; but not only this:
[-]hey are acquiring an education in other depart-

[Column 3]
ments, and we shall see them become the brightest
and most polished shafts in the world of women
and among the daughters of Eve.
	May God bless and help us to stand in our
places, magnify our calling before Him. And if
we desire to do this, I believe He will inspire us
and assist us to walk in that path He has pointed 
out, that the seeds we sow may germinate and
spring up to become useful in assisting to roll off
the kingdom of God, and that through life and 
death we may be faithful, and at last earn an ex-
altation in the celestial kingdom of our God,
which I desire in the name of the Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen.
	Elder Samuel W. Richards then bore a power-
ful testimony of the truths which had been uttered
and of the great Latter-day work. He felt greatly
honored to have an invitation, and was gratified
to be present on so auspicious an occasion. He
recognized this occasion as of great import to the
sisters of Zion, and that it was a day long to be
remembered by those who were present. He
thought the question arose as to whether each one
was fulfilling the design of their great creation, in
struggling for the maintenance of virtue, peace 
and righteous works.
	Those who had known President Young, knew
him to be a man of superior intelligence, power
and mighty faith. Whatever he undertook to do,
he accomplished, and he has left a record that
will be read by millions yet unborn. To-day
his power and ability is unquestioned.  It is re-
cognized the wide world over, wherever his name
has been breathed.
	Elder R—— rejoiced at the progress of the
great Latter-day work; spoke in glowing words of 
his mission in England, when he was summoned 
before members of Parliament, where he then
bore his testimony to them in power.
	The speaker ever regarded, with a watchful eye,
the progress of this people and their mission so
great and vast. He earnestly invoked divine
blessings upon the ladies' societies and upon the
Church generally.
	Sister Herrick, of Weber County, said that she 
trusted the good instructions which had flowed so
freely to-day might be carried home to every
heart among the people of God, that the young
might sense their weighty obligations placed upon 
them at all times and improve the opportunities
that are presented. She loved to labor among
her sisters in doing good, and she trusted that 
what had been said might re[-]ound to the honor
 and glory of God. She felt to extend a welcome
hand to the visitors from Salt Lake, and trusted
the time would come when a reign of universal 
peace may be ushered in, and this people prepared
to enjoy the glories thereof.
	President F. D. Richards spoke as follows:
	Being called upon by the sisters to address you
for a short time this afternoon, I wish to introduce
my remarks by first saying, that Sister Herrick,
who has just addressed you, is the Stake Prest.
of the Y. L. M. I. A. for Weber County, which,
perhaps, I should have stated at the opening of
her remarks.  She, therefore, spoke in behalf of
the Young Ladies of this Stake.
	One day this week, it was my privilege to be in
company with our beloved President Woodruff,
and with some other of the brethren who are asso-
ciated with him in a state of obscurity, and who
do not make their appearance in public assemblies.
I made mention of this occasion, with an invita-
tion, if it had been reasonable and consistent for
them, to meet with us. And inasmuch as they
felt that they could not, he bid me express his
love and good wishes to the sisters of the Relief
Society and the Young Ladies' Associations, and
any and all who might be present who love the
work in which we are engaged, and said it would
be impossible to attend, though he would like
to have done so exceeding much. He referred to
a very interesting party he attended here some


[Column 1]
years ago, given on the anniversary of Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith's birthday, which many of 
the Saints present, no doubt, remember.  He
thought it was the best sister's party he had ever
attended. 
	Our brethren, who are hidden from our society
for the present, are always solicitous and anxious
for the prosperity of the Church in all its various
departments; and they watch over every part of 
the work of which God has made them overseers, 
with the deepest solicitude, prayerfulness of heart 
and with earnestness for its prosperity. 
	I realize that I am addressing representative
ladies of the Weber Stake of Zion, presidents of 
the Relief Society and associations generally, and 
many others as well.  I always feel anxious when
I address my sisters to say something that shall
encourage them in their work; because they
naturally feel timid and backward and have a re-
luctance to assume public positions, or public
duties, because some think they are making them-
selves too officious in public, and that ladies have
no rights in public duties. 
	Some of the sisters feel intimidated in their
meetings when the brethren are present; while
others believe that if the brethren would attend
and give them counsel and encouragement, they
would be stronger and more able to launch out in 
the liberty of the spirit and discharge the duties
incumbent upon them with a consciousness and
heavenly assurance, that would result in the bless-
ings of God upon their labors.  It has been so 
from the beginning of this work that has been
laid upon the sisters; it has been looked upon by 
some of them as being something out of their line
and place.  Every now and again we hear men
speak tauntingly of the sisters and lightly of their
public duties instead of supporting and encourag-
ing them.  There are also some who look with
jealousy upon the moves of the sisters as though
they might come to possess some of the gifts, and
are afraid they will get away with some of the
blessings of the Gospel, which only men ought to 
possess.  That is the way some look upon woman
and her work.  They don't like to accord to them 
anything that will raise them up and make their
talents to shine forth as the daughters of Eve
and of Sarah.  But have feelings of envy and 
jealousy; and instead of dealing open handedly
with them, tell them to go forward and do all the
good they can, it seems as though they would like 
to keep them back and not let them do anything,
—more than is really necessary.
	I am sorry to see this feeling.  The brethren
should understand and see that in so doing
they are opposing themselves.  Inasmuch as the
sisters do not arrogate authority to themselves
I think the brethren, by hindering them, withhold
blessings from themselves; if they would work
with the sisters they would be more abundantly
blessed.  The Presidents and Bishops would
realize multiplied blessings upon their own heads. 
Is it not more honorable for a king to rule over a 
wealthy and noble race, than one reduced to 
poverty, ignorance and serfdom?  Is it not more
honorable to preside over a nation that is enlight-
ened, intelligent and enterprising?  Is it not much
more glorious and honorable to preside over
those who are full of faith, who are active in good
works, and who are filled with the power of God?
Certainly it is.  When the sisters have the spirit
of their work upon them, they will labor with an
honest zeal in the midst of their societies, and it 
adds blessings thereto.  There is no Bishop that
encourages and supports an institution of this
kind, but who realizes and must acknowledge that
these sisters in their different callings, lessen his
labors, make easy his calling and add to the effi-
ciency of his Stake or ward.  The Bishops
who do this will be blessed and are blessed at all
times. 
	When I arise to teach the sisters, I am benefit-
ting the teachers and the authorities of the Church

[Column 2]
in Zion.  I do not feel at any time to withhold
or be reluctant in instructing or speaking well of
them and their labors in the Church.  I know
that many are afraid to go ahead and do anything
without instructions, for fear they may do wrong. 
And they thus are prevented from doing many
things that would materially assist the cause, for
fear they may do wrong. 
	Sisters, do right.  Where you desire to launch
out and do right, do so, and God will sanctify your
labors to the good of your sisters, and also the
good of the brethren; and you will make your hus-
bands far more useful wives.  You will have more
obedient daughters, more dutiful children; child-
ren that are more affectionate, true, honorable, 
faithful, and who, in their turn, will make more
honorable husbands and more dutiful wives. 
	I wish to say to you this afternoon, sisters
of the Relief Society and of the Young Ladies' 
Associations, that while it is expected of you
that you will visit the sick, that you shall see to it
that none of the brethren and sisters suffer from 
poverty or for the want of the necessaries of life, 
while it is your duty and privilege to minister to 
each other and those around you, and even when 
life has departed, you are to look after them and
see that they have proper clothing and burial—I
say, while you have these duties continually
upon you, you have other privileges and rights,
which are known to us and the people in general. 
It is pleasing to hear the Bishops report to the
quarterly conferences the faithfulness of the
Relief Society, and the aid they have derived from
them, the relief they find by having them to call
upon them for aid, and the efficient manner in 
which they respond to every need. 
	The Relief Society of Weber Stake raised be-
tween $500 and $600, and gave it as a donation to 
help finish the Logan Temple—a nice little item, 
which the building committee acknowledged with
gratitude, and every name of those who donated
was written in the records of the Temple. 
	In looking over the lists, I find that there is
considerable over $500 donated by the Weber
societies towards finishing the Manti Temple. 
The donations from this Stake on the Manti
Records, cover eighty pages, and over forty lines
to a page, and has on each line the name of the
person and the amount paid. 
	Sisters, tell it to your children at home, that in 
these records is contained over $100, paid by the
little ones of the Primaries; and each boy or 
girl has their name written there, credited to a 
nickle, dime or quarter, as the case may be, and it 
shows who have contributed anything to assist in 
the completion of that beautiful building.  These
records will be placed in the Temple at Manti, 
and will be kept as a perpetual remembrance. 
	Besides this, the Relief Society of Weber
Stake, during the past six years, or there
about, since the Deseret Hospital was organ-
ized into an association, has contributed, as near
as I can recollect, something over one thousand
dollars to help maintain and conduct that chari-
table institution.  Some months ago we made ap-
plication to the Secretary to give us a statement of 
the number of cases, the kind of affliction, what
number got well, what number died, the amount
expended, the amount received, etc., etc., in order
that it may be known how it stands, what good it
has done, and the status of the association at the
present time, in order that it may receive the at-
tention and encouragement it should have. I 
have been told repeatedly what you have a right
to know, that Weber County has been second to 
none, or only one among the Stakes, who have
donated for its support.
	In all these lists there is contained in the re-
cords concerning the Manti Temple and other
things, no less than 3,400 names from this Stake
of Zion. 
	The sisters of the Relief Society at the present
time, feel very much the loss of their President

[Column 3]
Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith.  Sister Eliza having
passed away, after an illness of more than a year, 
during which she was unable to attend public
meetings.  Sister Zina D. Young, her successor, 
is absent for a short time, but is expected home
soon, when she will visit the different branches of 
the Society, attend to her duties and give advice, 
as Sister Eliza used to do. 
	This is a great work.  It is a vast auxiliary.  It
is one of those things spoken of in the Scriptures
as "helps" to the government of the kingdom of 
God.  Sisters, be diligent in all things, no matter
how the brethren may look upon you.  Your
organization is just as important as any other in 
the Church, outside of the priesthood.  It has
been instituted by the highest authority on earth
in this dispensation.  It was appointed and estab-
lished by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo. 
I am glad that there are some here to-day who
were there at that meeting, and who listened to 
the instructions of the Prophet of God. Sister
Eliza was Secretary at the time of the organiza-
tion.  Sister Emma Smith was the presiding
officer of that institution, and she was blessed
under the hands of Presidents Joseph Smith and
John Taylor, to expound the Scriptures and ad-
minister to the Saints in this holy office and presi-
dency. 
	I wish to make a few remarks concerning it and
its significance, as it appears to me, for the
encouragement of the sisters; and in doing so, I
shall refer to some of the sayings of the Prophet
Joseph in instituting it.  In April, 1842, 
he made an appointment with the Relief
Society in the city of Nauvoo.  He attended
that meeting and lectured to the sisters himself. 
There are several present here to-day, who were
there and heard him speak, as did also myself. 
Here are Presendia L. Kimball, Bathsheba W. 
Smith, Jane S. Richards, and if I could mention
them all, there would be quite a number here who
were members of that Society. 
	The Prophet Joseph treated upon the gifts and 
blessings of the priesthood to be enjoyed by all
those who believed, and also upon the character
of the work devolved upon its members.  And he
read, concerning the blessings which he wanted
them to understand, were theirs if they would live
for them.  He read a portion of the 16th chapter of 
St. Mark, where it says:  "Go ye into all the 
world and preach the Gospel to every creature. 
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; 
but he that believeth not shall be dammed. And
these signs shall follow them that believe:  In my
name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak
with new tongues; they shall take up serpents;
and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not
hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and
they shall recover."
	He said, in relation to the females administer-
ing to the sick, that there could be no more wrong
in it, than in performing any other ordinance of 
the Church if the Lord gave His sanction by
healing the sick under the hands of the sisters. 
	I will read from the minutes which were taken
on that occasion by Sister Eliza:
	"He continued to read the chapter, and give in-
structions respecting the different offices, and the
necessity of every individual acting in the sphere
allotted him or her, and filling the several offices
to which they were appointed. 
	"He said the reason of these remarks being
made was, that some little foolish things were 
circulating in the society, against some sisters not
doing right in laying hands on the sick.  Said if
the people had common sympathies they would re-
joice that the sick could be healed; that the time
had not been before that these things could be in 
their proper order; that the Church is not fully
organized, in its proper order, and cannot be, until
the Temple is completed, where places will be 
provided for the administration of the ordinances
of the Priesthood."
	Elder Richards here remarked:


[Column 1]
	This was just before he commenced giving 
endowments, and was hastening the work of the
Temple to get ready for it; and he says, that "as
he had this opportunity, he was going to instruct
the ladies of this Society, and point out the way
for them to conduct themselves, that they might
act according to the will of God; that he did not
know that he should have many opportunities of
teaching them, as they were going to be left to
themselves; they would not long have him to in-
struct them; that the Church would not have his
instructions long, and the world would not be
troubled with him a great while, and would not
have his teachings.
	"He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the Church, and said that the faithful
members of the Relief Society should receive them
in connection with their husbands, that Saints whose
integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might
know how to ask the Lord and receive an answer;
for according to his prayers, God had appointed 
him elsewhere.
	"He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate
their faith and prayers for, and place confidence
in their husbands, whom God had appointed for
them to honor, and in those faithful men whom
God has placed at the head of the Church to lead 
His people; that we should arm and sustain them
with our prayers; for the keys of the kingdom are
about to be given to them, that they may be able
to detect everything false; as well as to all the 
Elders who shall prove their integrity in due sea-
son.
	"President Smith then gave instruction respect-
ing the propriety of females administering to the 
sick by the prayer of faith, and laying on of hands, 
or the anointing with oil; and said it was accord-
ing to revelation that the sick should be nursed
with herbs and mild food, and not by the hand of
an enemy. Who are better qualified to administer
than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts
are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy, and com-
passion? No one. Said he was never placed in
similar circumstances before, and never had given
the same instruction; and closed his instructions
by expressing his heartfelt satisfaction in improv-
ing this opportunity.
	"The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a 
a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by
those present on this interesting occasion."
	Elder Richards continuing said: I ask
any and everybody present who have received
their endowments, whether he be a brother
Apostle, Bishop, High Priest, Elder, or what-
ever office he may hold in the Church, "What
blessings did you receive, what ordinance, what
power, intelligence, sanctification or grace did you
receive that your wife did not partake of with you?"
I will answer, that there was one thing that 
our wives were not made special partakers of, and
that was the ordination to the various orders of
the priesthood which were conferred upon us.
Aside from that, our sisters share with us any and
all of the ordinances of the holy anointing, en-
dowments, sealings, sanctifications and blessings
that we have been made partakers of.
	Now, I ask you: Is it possible that we have the
holy priesthood and our wives have none of it? Do
you not see, by what I have read, that Joseph 
desired to confer these keys of power
upon them in connection with their
husbands? I hold that a faithful wife has certain
blessings, powers and rights, and is made par-
taker of certain gifts and blessings and promises
with her husband, which she cannot be deprived
of EXCEPT BY TRANSGRESSION of the holy order
of God. They shall enjoy what God said they
should. And these signs shall follow them if they
believe.
	Moses said, when some one told him that a cer-
tain man was prophesying  in the camp, and the 
people thought he had no right to do so, Moses
replied saying: "I would to God that all of the

[Column 2]
Lord's people were prophets." So I say: I wish
all the sisters were so faithful that they were heal-
ers of the sick, through the power of God. Then
would their children have a foundation to grow up
from their youth in the fear and admonition of the 
Lord and in the power of His might. Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith learned some of these things
from the Prophet Joseph Smith; and as he was
the organizer of the Church of Christ, so she
went through the Territory organizing Relief So-
cieties, and did a wonderful work. She partook
of the power of her distinguished husband.
	Sisters, may the Lord bless you. Bishops, may
the Lord bless us all and give us the spirit of liber-
ality. The more we do for the sisters, the more 
they will do for us; and so may the Spirit of the
Lord bless us all with the feeling of liberality
to all, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Amen.
				To be Continued.


