REFLECTIONS.

	This is Pioneer day, July 24, 1888.  Forty-
one years ago to-day, the pioneers entered
these valleys of the Great Salt Lake. This
was then a barren region.  They were religi-
ous pilgrims driven out from civilized society
because of their religious belief.  They were
weary wanderers, who through great faith in
God believing that they were doing His holy
will were enabled to bear all that they had to
pass through and felt that this was their place
to rest, and make homes and to worship God
according to the dictates of their consciences.
Having pure, undefiled faith that they were
doing that which God desired them to do; with
this faith they have accomplished a mighty
work and wonder through united efforts and
industry and the blessings of God, and have
made of this barren waste beautified cities and
towns.  They have taught their children the 
principles of their religion, which are faith in 
God and his Son Jesus Christ, and have told


them if they repent of their sins and are bap-
tized by immersion that God will forgive them
and that His Holy Spirit will lead them into
the ways of truth and righteousness. Also that
God had called Joseph Smith a prophet to es-
tablish his church upon the earth for the
last time, and that He had revealed His holy
will to this choice prophet of the latter days,
and together with the many plans and princi-
ples of salvation He had revealed the princi-
ples of celestial and plural marriage for some
wise purpose of his own, and that we lived in
one of the grandest nations in the world, where
God had inspired mighty men to establish
build and buy with precious blood the choicest
land on earth, a refuge for the oppressed, a
land of liberty, where people from every na-
tion would receive their rights; with this kind
of teaching and publicly preaching to the
world, thousands of beautiful and intelligent
children were born to the Latter-day Saints;
their fathers and mothers toiled early and late
that they might support their families. Noth-
ing, but faith in God has ever supported these
mothers and children through the trials that
these circumstances surrounding them called
them to pass through. They were human be-
ings, subject to the weaknesses of the human
race having their natural jealousies and selfish-
ness and various dispositions to control,in order
that that they might set good examples. Who
cannot at a glance comprehend that there
must have been strong motive power that in-
duced young women,pure minded,and virtuous,
to share their all with each other, to wait on
each other in sickness, to nurse each other’s
children and teach them to give the mothers
the honorable title of “Aunt,” and in some
cases to name their children for each other, to
teach these brothers and sisters that they
should love each other as one family. These
things look something like a sacrifice of hu-
man nature to acomplish.
	Yet such was the situation for many years
and this government stood by and looked on
and took no step to check it, until 1862. Then
this protective government passed a law
against polygamy, and prior to that had ap-
pointed Brigham Young governor of Utah
knowing him to be a practical polygamist. They
never even tried a single case for years to know
whether the law of 62 was valid or not. The
government, however, woke up to look at
slavery and concluded it was not right, that
it must be abolished, this brought on a mighty
war and many precious lives were sacrificed
many homes made desolate, many hearts made
sad, but the black man, woman and their chil-
dren were made glad. They were set free
with the law to protect each and every one.
They are called the “nations ward.” When
this war was settled they, these honorable men
in the Congress of the United States, turn
around and call polygamy the twin to slavery.
They begin to think that something must be
done to put this down. “It is not right; it is a
stain  on society; it is a loathsome ulcer; it
must be wiped out.
	Hon. George Q. Cannon was selected
and sent and sustained by Congress and was
known to be a practical polygamist, and
served there for several years as a respectable
and exemplary man, honorable in every action,
as every man in congress that formed his ac-
quaintance knows to be the truth. He had his
peculiar religious belief; society talked loudly
about this without knowing what they were
talking about. Meanwhile men and journal-
ists that were hungry for office, that were seek-
ing notoriety, that would rob their fellow men
for their ovn selfish gain, that saw that these
industrious people were becoming more wealthy
and thought if they could succeed in blacken-
ing their names in slandering their characters,
they might safely take away their inheritance
and possessions.  With this class of men and
[column 2]
women the people were deceived. Members of
Congress introduced plans and laws of differ-
ent kinds to conquer this white twin,and to cut
the loathsome ulcer from the body politic.
	As late as 1883, Senator Edmunds and his
co-workers sharpened their knives as the phy-
sicians to cut this ulcer that had been growing
for forty years and Congress had  stood by
and looked on and talked about it. Many
years ago it was only on the surface then if
they had the power to remove it, it could
have been removed with little danger; but no;
these protectors let it grow until it has taken a
deep hold to take it out, they will have to cut
the main arteries; they will have to sever the
cords of love stronger than death; they will
have to cut away the very fibers of the heart;
break up the homes of many families; rob
thousands of innocent children of their fathers,
one of their natural protectors; leave the home
that both father and mother have made, for if
the father stays there the mother must
leave; she that has toiled early and late to
keep things in order; she that has taken care in
health and in sickness; the mother that has
been ever true, ever diligent, ever careful that
the children might appear respectable and tidy;
that has practised economy in every way that
all might live; that has deprived herself of
many of the pleasures of life, thinking and
faithfully believing that she was doing the will
of her Father in heaven, acting upon religious
principles and with no desire to injure any per-
son; this mother discarded, yes, without a man-
tle of protection. Senator Edmunds is the
man that is willing to let his name go down to
posterity as the originator of this unjust law, 
that undertook to cut out the ulcer without any
healing ointment to take care of the wound
without any cords to tie the arteries or veins.
	But have you made any provision for wives
where they can still be permitted to take
care of their children and claim a lawful sup-
port? No, we fail to see any, if this is the white
twin that you have robbed and turned out with-
out a mantle to cover herself with; this is bad
in a free republic, but hardly enough. Sena-
tor Tucker combines to do a little more; he
proposes if these mothers of legitimate families,
that they have robbed of the title of wife should
ever become mothers again through the same
channel shall be confined in the prison for six
months, and her child be only illegitimate hav-
ing no claim or portion with the others, and
publish her as a fornicator. If this is what
society calls justice, if Senator Edmunds and
Tucker, and the signers of this unjust bill have
considered this all around and understand
what they have done for hundreds of virtuous
women and innocent children, if they have
carefully considered the responsibilties, then
woe be to them;the God that is their Father is our
Father, and is no respector of persons; we have
no fear that He will forsake us in the future,
for He has helped us in the past. If these pro-
tectors of human rights do not repent, these
will be the ones that will call for the rocks to
hide them from the presence of their Maker,
for the multitude of their sin is great if these
men have no religion expect to meet nothing but
the grave, should they be put there in a casket
of gold with all the honors that society can
heap upon them, they are but mortal men that
oppressed women and robbed children of their
birthright. We are thankful to say there are
men that have been stamped with bad names,
that are too honorable to take advantage of
that law; that have preferred the prison to for-
saking their families; that have chosen exile
and seclusion rather than to submit to injustice;
that prefer the underground train drawn by
oxen in the hope to meet justice hereafter, than
to mount the train that is run by injustice with
no mercy for its cargo.
