AUNT PRESENDIA'S BIRTHDAY.

	According to an established custom among
many of the lady friends of the venerable sister,
Presendia L. Kimball, about fifty ladies met at her
residence, on September 7, 1888, to celebrate the
78th anniversary of the birth of this honored and
beloved mother in Israel.
	After congratulations and partaking of the
bountiful refreshments, furnished by loving hands,
the sisters spent a pleasant and profitable time in
social converse.  Sister Higbee, an aged veteran,
sang, "There's a difference between a Mormon
and a Saint," and afterwards the company joined
in singing the familiar and sublime hymn, "O my
Father, Thou that dwellest," etc.
	Sister Ann Tate offered a prayer, and the sisters
sang, "Home, Sweet Home."
	Sister Presendia Kimball then made a few re-
marks, but said she could not express her feelings
on such an occasion, but she felt very thankful
that the Lord had been so good to her. "Every
look is so good to me, so comforting, I do hope
the sisters will be blessed. This is a trying time
and we must cleave to the Lord."  Invited all the
sisters to speak, and hoped they would have a
good time.
	Sister Annie Savage said it hardly seemed like a
year since she saw all those dear old faces before,
and referred to Sister Kimball's telling them on
her last birthday, that they should all be allowed
to meet with her, and one another on her next
birthday (this year), which was now verified;
hoped Sister Kimball would live a long time, as
she did not want to miss the dear old faces, Sister
Savage alluded pathetically to her inability to hear
the voices of the sisters; hoped we would receive
a blessing, and so forth.  
	Sister Dover, Allen and Watmough each spoke
a few words, expressing their kind feelings and
love for Sister Kimball and for the truth.
	Sister Lula G. Richards was the next speaker,
and in her remarks alluded to the party two years
ago; when her mother was present, but now she


had gone to a better home, yet she felt that her
mother was there in spirit.  She referred to Sister
Kimball's having spoken in tongues on her last 
birthday and the sweet impression left on her
mind by the interpretation, which was given by 
Aunt Zina.
	Sisters Shulty, Tate, Whittaker, Nebeker and 
Mother Coon each made a few remarke, and the 
last named spoke in the gift of tongues, and the 
interpretation was given by Sister Kimball which
was very comforting to all present.
	Sisters Nebeker, Ware, Howe, Ridges, Higbee
Toone, Sharp, Howard and Grey, also Dr. Fer-
guson each said a few words of appreciation of 
and love for Sister Kimball, and expressed their
firmness in the Gospel, and their desires to prove
faithful.
	Sister Savage read a very kind letter from Sis-
ter Zina to Presendia L. Kimball, after which
there waa singing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet," and a benediction was pronounced by 
Sister Savage.
	A very sweet and affectionate poem, written by
Laura E. Pack, of Kamas, was read to the com-
pany during the day.  The birthday was an ex-
ceedingly pleasant one, not only to the hostess, in 
whose honor the ladies assembled, but to all who 
participated in the spirit of the meeting.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations and best
wishes to those of the many, many friends of 
Aunt Presendia.
							E. H. W.


