DAUGHTER AND SISTER.
	There is nothing of which a mother is more
proud, than a good daughter.  An old proverb
says, and that truly, that "The son is son till
he is married, but the daughter is daughter
forever."  A good daughter is a bright light
and the life of every home;  all her interests
are centered in trying to make that home com-
fortable and pleasant for those she loves, being
under the gentle influence of a kind mother
she becomes the pride and ornament of her
hospitality, the lively companion in health, the
ever kind and loving nurse in times of sickness,
and the constant agent in those nameless, num-
berless acts of kindness which one chiefly cares
to have rendered because they are unpretend-
ing, but because they are all expressive proofs
of love.
	A daughter's first duty is to seek to do that
which will please and bring happiness to 
mother and all those who have her interest at
heart, and to shun all that would pain or dis-
please the peaceful influence that should per-
vade the happy fireside.  There are daughters
who give their mothers cares, labor and sorrow,
where they had a right to expect rest and re-
pose.
	As daughters of Latter-day Saints, born and 
reared under the everlasting covenant here in
Zion, and belonging to Improvement Associa-
tions, we should certainly learn our true
position as such, and bear in mind that next to
our Heavenly Father comes duty to the one
who is first to rejoice in our joy, and who truly
mourns when we are called upon to mourn.
The strongest proof of heartlessness and in-
gratitude young ladies can give is indifference
to a mother's comfort, happiness or sorrow.
The intercourse of sisters and brothers forms a
very important part in the happiness of home.
What a large and cherished place does a good
sister's love always hold in grateful remem-
brance of one who has been blessed with the
benefits of this relation, as she looks back to
the happy home of her childhood;  with what
profound security is confidence reposed in a
sister, and with that assurance that it will be
uprightly and considerately given, is her coun-
sel sought!  How many of us, when thrown in
temptation's way, stop to reflect what sister
would say, and let the holy influence of her
love check our evil thoughts and deeds.  Do
we comprehend the influence we can wield
over our brothers and sisters for good or bad,
if we exercise the same with a kindly feeling
and humble spirit, always seeking their pleasure
and careless of our own?  The most simple re-
quest of such a sister will keep the young
from doing that which they know to be wrong,
such as breaking the Sabbath day, and the
young men from chewing and drinking;  and
why?  Simply because they have respect and
affection for the one who made the request,

[column 2]
and their wishes become law.  A favor asked
by such will often be regarded as sacred, when
a more powerful appeal from other sources
would fall unheeded upon the heart.  We meet
many who are unfortunate in not having the
privilege of the association of brothers and
sisters, being called away to work, and all such
cheerfully respond to any behest made by those
who take any interest in them and their well-
being.
	Sisters', as well as brothers' characters, are
formed by the friends and companions they
choose to associate with while young.  There-
fore, it is of the utmost importance that we in-
terest ourselves in our brothers and sisters
while they are yet in their youth, by introduc-
ing them into good society, for good company
not only improves our manners, but also our
minds, and if we implant in their minds a de-
sire to associate with the honest and pure in 
heart, they will cultivate a respect for all that
is good, and above all, great self-respect, and
this will ever prove a safe-guard to keep them
from mingling with those who are low and de-
based.
	Let us ever keep in mind, that deportment,
honesty, caution and a desire to do right,
carried out in practice, are to human character
what truth, reverence and love are to religion.
