(REPORTED BY JOHN M WHITTAKER.)

[Concluded.]
	Sister E. B. Wells, Editor of The WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, said:
	I feel glad to have the privilege of standing be-
fore you, just for a short time; and I am also glad
that there is but a few minutes left for me to
occupy.  I expect you are all tired, but no doubt
you will agree with me, that we have had a great
deal of good teaching.
	I feel to-day as I did eleven years ago to-day,
that this is a "red letter day" for the sisters of this
Stake of Zion.  I know that what was said on
that day has been like little seeds that have ger-
minated and grown up, and have since made a
harvest of good deeds, from the first appoint-
ment that was made here from this stand when
Sister Richards was chosen President of all the
branches of the Relief Society in this County, as
well as the Young Ladies'.  That appointment
was the first made in this dispensation of any
woman to preside over the Relief Society in an
organized capacity by President Young
on that occasion, and I bear testimony
that I heard him appoint Sister Jane S. Richards
to preside over all the societies and associations
in this Stake of Zion; and he also requested them

[Column 2]
at that time to make quarterly reports to be read
at quarterly conferences.  And it was here in
this Tabernacle that the first quarterly
conference of the Relief Society was called.
Bro. Richards gave out the notice by suggestion
of President Young, at the close of the meeting.
It was not long after that, that President Young
died.  And Sister Eliza went throughout this 
territory organizing in the several Stakes after
that pattern.
	Afterwards, I firmly believe it was revealed to
her, that she was to go forth and organize the
Young Ladies in a separate and distinct associa-
tion, but one in strict harmony and to work in per-
fect accord with the Relief Society.  And a great
work has been done since then.  I cannot help
repeating that this is a "red letter day" for the
women of Zion.  To speak of all the work that
has been done by the sisters, would take a great
deal of time.
	I know and can testify to the liberality of the
sisters of this Stake in giving means to the
Deseret Hospital.  The amount donated by them
has been next to that of the Salt Lake Stake, al-
though many Stakes have been very liberal.  And
when Brother Richards was speaking on that
subject, I thought of a little circumstance which
President Canute Peterson related when I was in
Sanpete, a short time ago.
	While he was absent on a mission in Scandina-
via, the sisters of Sanpete Stake, with all their
other donations, sent him a thousand dollars with
which to emigrate the poor from that country.  Do
you think we could ever have accomplished what
we have, unless we had been organized perfectly?
We should pray for those who are in responsible
positions. I feel positive that the sisters will sus-
tain Sister Zina D. H. Young in the position to
which she has been called—President over all the
Relief Society.  She will be at home before long.
I hope her health will be renewed.  I trust the
brethren and sisters will remember her and Sister
Richards in their prayers.  The position to which
Sister Richards has been called, has been filled
with efficiency.  And I trust the position of Sister
Zina will be filled with that efficiency with which
the work was performed by those who have gone
before.  Let the mantle of Sister Eliza fall upon
Sister Zina, that she may be able to satisfy the
people as Sister Eliza did in traveling among the
Saints, and assisting in doing good and in perform-
ing a great work; and it certainly is a great work.
I know that the sisters who labor in the organiza-
tions are striving to help build up the kingdom
and to work in harmony with the Bishops and
brethren; and that it is the desire of the sisters to
work in perfect harmony with the priesthood.
We must remember that there is a great deal to
do and a great amount of instruction to give; and
we are expected to work together.  There are
many things that it seems almost impossible in
our weakness to do; but when we receive encour-
agement from the brethren and are blessed of the
Lord, we persevere and go on with renewed
energy.  The sisters have just as essential a
work as the brethren, and while they do not go
abroad, preaching the Gospel to the nations of
the earth, they have a great work to do here at
home as missionaries.
	Since this meeting was called, I have looked
over some of the remarks of Presidents
Young and Taylor, who spoke eleven years ago
to-day, and have tried to get the spirit of that
meeting into my heart, so that I might realize it
here to-day.  And I think that the same spirit is
here.  It was a grand beginning, and I feel that
if Sister Richards wanted to resign her position,
it would be almost impossible.  Sometimes when
she has been sick and weak, and we have been
talking about these matters, she has said: "Well,
if I resign, somebody else can do it, better, per-
haps, than I."  Well, I don't think she should re-
sign a position she was called to by the President
any more than one of the Apostles should.  She
felt the same way in regard to the Hospital.  But
we all felt that we could not do without her in that
Board.  I pray God to bless and strengthen her more
abundantly.  She has given us a great treat here to-
day.  I think the Bishops and those who prepared the
dinner deserve great credit.  I heard several say
it was the best and most nicely arranged public
dinner that they ever attended.
	I feel to return my thanks to you, and especially
Sister Richards and those who proposed that
Brigham Young should come up here and speak
to the people assembled on that grand occasion we
now commemorate, and for the instructions he
then gave.  I hope you will all read about the
duties of the sisters, and all those who have pre-
served the WOMAN'S EXPONENT can read it from
that paper.  It was Bro. James Taylor who took
it down in short hand, and it was published after
President Young's death.  He spoke about home-
made bonnets and the manufacture of home-made
hats; and I remember very well when he came
and dedicated what was then called "The Co-
operative Millinery Establishment," but which
we generally speak of as the "Relief Society
Store."  He spoke of the silk culture, and urged
the sisters to plant mulberry trees, and about
storing up grain, and he seemed to remember
every little item that would come in the province
of the sisters to do, or which they could attend to,
I, for one, want to recollect these things; though,
perhaps, we do not carry out his instructions as
we should.  I remember hearing him say, that one
great mistake of his life was, that he paid all the
tithing for his family.  But if he had his life to
live over again, he would have every wife and 
every child each pay tithing.  Many of the other
leading brethren, when they paid their tithing,
would pay for their whole family also.  But things
are different in these days.  Every one should pay
tithing for himself or herself.  I remember an in-
stance of a young lady who taught school and
earned $100; I presume it was the most money
she ever had, and her mother said to her she had
better pay $10 for tithing.  But the young lady
thought it was too much to take $10 out of her
hard earnings, but purchased a nice switch of 
hair, and on her way home a sort of whirlwind
arose and took her switch and carried it away.
She advertised for it, and paid either fifty cents or
a dollar for advertising, but never found it
(Laughter).  She afterwards said if she had only
taken the advice of her mother and paid her tith-
ing, she would have been that much better off.
	I really feel that I am trespassing upon your
time; but I feel proud of this day.  It is a day
long to be remembered.
	President Jane S. Richards made some appro-
priate remarks about the anniversary, and called
upon Bishop E. Stratford, who was pleased to
have the happy privilege of meeting with the sis-
ters on so important an occasion, and trusted that
it would not be the last of such meetings.  He
was present eleven years ago, when President
Young delivered the sermon referred to.  He
had cause to appreciate the labors of the Relief 
Society in his ward, and felt to ask God to bless
the sisters in all they undertook to do.
	Sister M. A. Freeze, President of the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Salt Lake Stake, said:
	My brethren and sisters: I do, indeed, deem it
a privilege to stand before you and raise my voice 
in this assembly this day, and bear my testimony
that I know that Brigham Young was a prophet of
God, and that he was inspired of God in organiz-
ing the Relief and Young Ladies' Societies.  He
instructed them to work together with the same
purpose in view.  If I had no other proof of this
Gospel than this, I would know that it is the king-
dom of God, and that this is the work of God.
She felt to act in any and every capacity where
she might be called to labor, and prayed for the
welfare of Zion.


[Column 1]
Sister Maria W. Wilcox. Cor. Sec. Relief So-
ciety, Salt Lake Stake, said:
	My beloved brethren and sisters: I feel highly
honored and gratified in attending this meeting,
and feel this is a day long to be remembered; and
the instructions and counsel which have been
given, if we will follow them out in our lives,
will be beneficial to us all. These organizations
are timely; they have proved a great blessing to
the Saints. It has been the means of uniting the
people together in love and union and every good
and perfect work. And it is a pleasure to associate
in this capacity and realize the good we do from
time to time. I have been greatly blessed in
these associations, and I pray that the blessings of
our Heavenly Father may rest upon us at all
times. This is my desire, in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Dr. R. B. Pratt said in substance, that she had
been pleased in what had been said, and that the
truths which had been uttered should be taken
home to every heart, and be lived up to in the fu-
ture. She desired to so live that her physical
and spiritual being would grow together in perfec-
tion.
	
She paid a high tribute to the work of the Re-
lief Society, and especially to the Deseret Hos-
pital.
	She thought we should so live as to be models,
not  only in morality and higher education, but
also in our physical beings. Our course should
be upward and onward, having high and noble
aims, and worthy purpose. Sister Pratt made
special reference to the labors in the Hos-
pital; that many had come there and been
marvelously healed by the power of God through
the ordinances of the Church. And also, that
that was a part of the treatment in the Hospital.
She believed that there was plenty of room in this
Church for all to labor in positions of trust, and
invoked the divine blessings of Providence upon
all, and especially the sisters, that they might gain
the crown that is awaiting the faithful.
	Sister Kimball said she desired to bear her testi-
mony to the truth of this work. I know Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God. I know no other
man could have done what he did. I know that
the principles which he taught are pure and holy.
I never have felt to be sorry for one moment,
although what I have had to pass through is known
to no one but God. Man could not realize it. I
could not express it. God knows I have done the
best I could. I know that Brigham Young was a
holy and righteous man. I would not give the
experience I have for all the wealth of this world.
I pray ever for exaltation and salvation in the
celestial kingdom of God. I feel, and have it in
my heart to be true to the end. I feel to bless
these my sisters. May God bless and comfort the
daughters of Zion, that we may be truly saviors
upon Mount Zion, is my prayer in the name of
Jesus Christ. Amen.
	Bishop Robert McQuarrie was pleased to be
here on so important an occasion, and he felt im-
pressed in looking over the people's faces to see
how promptly they would attend their meetings.
And he felt to thank God that there were those
who took an interest in such a great work as the
sisters have in hand. He did not feel to continue
his remarks, but asked the blessings of God upon
the people in the land of Zion.
	Sister Emily S. Richards expressed her kind
feelings, and was pleased to meet with those she
had learned to love while living in Ogden. She
desired to labor with the other sisters in the work
of God, and trusted she would, with the other sis-
ters, be blessed.
	President Jane S. Richards then expressed her-
self highly gratified with the proceedings, and
realized that she had been blessed this day, and
desired all those who had the same feeling to raise
their hands. (Every hand went up).
	She would like to hear from others, but it is

[Column 2]
late and we must close. She thanked those who
had so kindly contributed to the interest of the
occasion, the visitors and all who were present,
and prayed that God would ever bless the Relief
Society.
	The congregation joined in singing, "The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning." Benediction was
pronounced by Charles F. Middleton.


