		INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL.

	In conversation with Prest. M. Isabella
Horne, of the Relief Society of this Stake,
since her return from abroad, we decided to 
make a few notes, that we thought would be of

[Column 2]
interest to our readers. In Mrs. Horne's rail-
way journey from Salt Lake City to New York
she met with quite a number of people who
were interested in Utah matters, the people,
the institutions, etc. Elder R. S. Horne, her
son, who accompanied her, also conversed with
several learned gentleman who desired infor-
mation upon the subject of Mormonism, and
who seemed pleased with whatever items were
imparted to them. The party, consisting of
several of the brethren and sisters, all had op-
portunities for conversation with strangers as
soon as it was known they were from Utah;
the time passed pleasantly, and, it is hoped, 
profitably, and that some good seed has been 
sown, at least in removing prejudice against 
the Latter-day Saints. In New York City
Mrs. Horne greatly enjoyed "seeing the sights,"
and visiting places of interest; she expresses
herself as particularly attracted by the Green-
wood Cemetery. 
	The party embarked on board the Circassia
of the Anchor line, bound for Glasglow, on the
19th of May. They had an excellent Captain,
by the name of Campbell, and in fact the same
might be said of all the officers on board the
steamer. The company also was very pleasant, 
and the people affable. There was but one
person who seemed to have any prejudice, and
he became quite friendly before the voyage 
was over. 
	A Methodist gentleman from South Carolina
requested the privilege of having a conversa-
tion with Mrs. Horne; he was an editor, and, 
no doubt, wanted a subject for editorial matter
or sketch of our people. He stated that he
had long desired to have an opportunity of
talking with some intelligent person, concern-
ing our people and principles. She explained
to him about the first principles of the Gospel
—faith, repentance, and baptism by immersion;
he thought immersion non-essential; the lady
quoted Scripture to prove her arguments, and
gave him a dissertation of the doctrines and
principles of the Latter-day Saints, none of
which he seemed able to refute successfully
from Biblical authority. The interview lasted
about an hour and a half, during which time 
Mrs. H. laid before the editor many important 
truths.
	The Rev. Alfred Anthony was the minister
of the steamer: he was on his way to Europe,
extending to study two years in Berlin. Mrs.
Horne says the Reverend gentleman was a very
able speaker and made excellent prayers. Upon
learning that Mrs. Horne was one of the 
pioneers of Utah, he came one day and seated
himself by her, and commenced a conversation;
first about settling the country; he had paid a
visit to Utah about six years ago, and said he
would like to come again and bring his wife
with him, upon which a gentleman jokingly
remarked, "Yes, be sure and take your wife."
The conversation naturally drifted into religious
channels, and the minister inquired were we
anything like the Roman Catholics, that we
had to have a Mediator, or could we approach
our Father in Heaven for ourselves. Mrs.
Horne of course answered, "Every one is at
liberty to seek our Father for himself or her-
self, through Jesus who shed His blood for us."
He then said, "Would any person joining your
Church have to be rebaptized, if the person
had been a member of some other church?"
Whereupon Mrs. Horne explained that every
one must be, as it was necessary that the cere-
mony of baptism be performed by one having 

[Column 3] 
authority, and come in through the door, in
accordance with the Scipture, "He that climb-
eth up any other way," etc. Mr. Anthony
then went on to say, "Supposing a man were
cast away upon an island, where there would
be no opportunity for baptism, how would it
be with him." The reply was given, "The
Lord would know the circumstances, and there
would be provision made," and so on. Mrs. 
H. referred him to the Savior's preaching to
the spirits in prison, and told him of the doc-
trine of the baptism for the dead, and said her
mission then was to gather up the genealogy
of her dead. Mr. A. then asked what she
thought of those of other churches who had
lived righteous lives, according to their under-
standing? Mrs. H. explained to him the
different degrees of glory, and that such people
would have more even than they anticipated, 
but it would be in accordance with their good
works and the purity of their motives. The
conversation continued for a long time, during
which Mrs. H. gave him the Articles of Faith,
and he said there was nothing there he could
not endorse. He spoke of the Book of Mor-
mon, its authenticity, etc. Mrs. H. cited him
to the account of the Tower of Babel, and the
confounding of languages and scattering of the
people, also the destruction of Jerusalem, and
that it was through this means that a remnant
came to this land, and the Book of Mormon is
their record hid away, to come forth in the
given time of the Lord. This distinguished
gentleman, with all his learning, knew nothing
of the way in which we understand the Scrip-
tures. 
	On the Sunday following this conversation, 
Mr. A. preached to the people, and in the
course of his sermon he made an illustration
like this: "Here we have the good ship Circas-
sia with a Captain and crew well manned, can-
not we trust ourselves in his hands, believing
he can guide the ship into port, and not dive
into the depths of the ocean after the mys-
teries?" Mrs. Horne says she felt that this
allusion was a thrust at her, but, she adds,  "He
forgot that we are told by our Savior to work
out our own salvation, and also, that it is given
to the Saints to know the mysteries of the
kingdom." 
	Hereafter we shall give other items of Mrs.
Horne's travels.


