THE STARLESS CROWN.

	"They that turn many to righteousness shall shine as the
stars forever and ever." —Daniel XII. 3.

Wearied and worn with earthly cares, I yielded to repose,
And soon, before my raptured sight, a glorious vision
	rose;
I thought whilst slumbering on my couch in midnight's 
	solemn gloom,
I heard an angel's silvery voice, and radiance fill'd my 
	room.
A gentle touch awakened me,—a gentle whisper said,
"Arise, O sleeper, follow me;" and through the air we
	fled.
We left the earth so far away that like a speck it seemed,
And heavenly glory, calm and pure, across our pathway
	stream'd.
Still on we went,—my soul was wrapt in silent ecstacy;
I wondered what the end would be, what next should meet
	mine eye.
I knew not how we journey'd hro' the pathless fields of
	light,
When suddenly a change was wrought and I was clothed 
	in white.
We stood before a city's wall most glorious to behold;
We passed thro' gates of glistening pearl, o'er streets of
	purest gold;

It needed not the sun by day, the silver moon by night,
The glory of the Lord was there, the Lamb himself its
	light;
Bright angels paced the shining streets, sweet music filled
	the air,
And white-robed saints with glittering crowns, from every
	land were there,
And some that I had loved on earth stood with them
	round the throne,
"All worthy is the Lamb," they sang,  "the glory His
	alone.
But fairer far than all beside, I saw my Savior's face;
And as I gazed He smiled on me with wondrous love and
	grace.
Lowly I bowed before His throne, o'er-joyed that I at
	last
Had gained the object of my hopes, that earth at length
	was past.
And then in solemn tones He said, "Where is the diadem
That ought to sparkle on thy brow—adorned with many a
	gem?
I know thou hast believed on Me, and life through Me
	is thine,
But where are all those radiant stars that in thy crown
	should shine?
Yonder, thou seest a glorious throng, and stars on every
	brow!
For every soul they led to me they wear a jewel now!

And such thy bright reward had been if such had been 
	thy deed,
If thou hadst sought some wand'ring feet in paths of peace
	to lead;
I did not mean that thou shouldst tread the way of life
	alone,
But that the clear and shining light which round thy foot-
	steps shone,
Should guide some other weary feet to my bright home of
	rest.
And thus in blessings those around, thou hadst thyself
	been blest.

The vision faded from my sight, the voice no longer spake,
A spell seemed brooding o'er my soul which long I feared
	to break,
And when at last I gazed around in memory's glimmering
	light,
My spirit fell o'erwhelmed beneath that vision's awful
	might.
I rose and wept with chastened joy that yet I dwelt below,
That yet another hour was mine my faith by works to
	show,
And yet some sinner I might tell of Jesus' dying love,
And help to lead some weary soul to seek a home above.
And now, while on the earth I stay, my motto this shall
	be, 
"To live no longer to myself but Him who died for me!"
And graven on my inmost soul this word of truth divine,
They that turn many to the Lord bright as the stars shall
	shine!
