BY BETSEY SMITH GOODWIN.

	How well I remember when mother said:
"Girls, let us try and get to the valley next
season with the hand-carts. I have got a letter
from your brother Robert; he has worked his
passage as cook over the sea, he has driven a
team across the plains. and has arrived safe in
Salt Lake City; he bids us exert ourselves to
emigrate next year. He says he will pray
while we work." We thought he had the
easiest job. Well, we worked at our looms by
day and our fancy work by night, and on
Saturday we sold the proceeds. God blest us
with health and labor; He softened the hearts
of our employers, and in many ways we could
see and realize. that God helps those who help
themselves. We earned and saved enough in
six months to pay our passage across the sea,
and on the 2nd day of May, in the beautiful
month of May, 1856, we left the shores of
Great Britain, our beloved native land.
	After five weeks sailing, sea sickness and
stormy weather, we landed in New York, thence
to Iowa by rail; there we camped six weeks,
waiting for the hand carts to be completed, and
it was the first week in August ere we rolled
out of Iowa to cross the dreary plains for our
home with the Saints in Utah. My little
brother used to travel twenty and twenty-four
miles in a day. We soon got used to travel,
and while fair weather and full rations lasted
we were all right. We traveled five weeks,
never stopping for Sunday; then we were in the
buffalo country; our cattle that hauled the pro-
vision wagons, and the cows were stampeded,
and we camped there five days trying to find
the cattle; most of them were never found; our
captain then thought we had done wrong in not
stopping to worship on Sunday. After that we
kept the Sabbath day of rest for all.
	Each cart had to its load of luggage one
 hundred pounds of flour, on account of our
loss of cattle, now we were, in September, on
half rations and cold weather. But we never
forgot to sing, "Come, come, ye Saints, no toil
nor labor fear." With great zeal and fervor,
many fell by the way, hoping to rise in the
First Resurrection of the Just. God grant it!
I will not dwell on the hardships we endured
with hunger and cold, but I like to tell how
many a storm raged to the right and to the
left of us, and did not molest us. One
circumstance I remember very clearly; my
mother was taken very sick with cramp
cholera, a very fatal trouble then; we  all felt
bad about mother. I remember thinking,
"Others are dying, and mother may die, and
what a dark world it will be without mother,"
and as I gathered the dry sage to make a fire,
I was crying. Mother met me and asked,
"What is the matter?" I told her how bad I
felt. She said: "Do not feel like that, but
pray for me; you and all the rest, and we will
get through. I have just been asking God to
spare our lives, so none of us will  be left  on the
way; and no matter what trials we have when
we get to the valley, I shall never murmur or
complain." God heard us, and I can say she
kept her word. We lived, and are living yet.
One more incident I will relate: One even-
ing we camped near a marshy meadow, which
abounded in springs and poison parsnips; every
one was elated; we had something good to eat
Alexander Burt was among the first to find

[Column 2]

them; he came to our camp-fire and commenced
to unload. Mother said: "Brother Burt, what
have you got?" "They are parsnips, Sister
Smith, a sort of white carrot; put on the pot
and let us have a good mess." "I will do that,"
said mother, and we cooked and ate our fill of
poison parsnips. I confess we felt like we had
eaten rocks, so heavy they were, and not only
us, but the whole camp ate of them. Our
captain arrived late at camp that night, and
when he found out what we had been eating,
he groaned aloud, and cried, "Put them down,
each one contains enough poison to kill an ox."
We were glad we had eaten ours, for we would
not have dared to eat any after that; he said it
would be one of the providences of the Al-
mighty if we were not all dead by morning.
We did not realize the truth of his words until
next morning one brother died; we supposed he
had eaten of them after he knew better. Now
we had one quarter of a pound of flour a day,
with neither salt or soda; some could hardly
wait to cook it. It was October, stormy and
cold. Soon the flour was all gone. Then
there were crackers for two days; then the
blessed boys of Utah met us with provisions.
They gathered our wood and made our camp
fires, and let us ride in their wagons; they found
time to do a little sparking, also, and many a
noble son and daughter can say, "My mother
was a hand-cart girl."
	Three miles this side of Green River, as I
was walking ahead of the the carts, leading my
little brother, encouraging him along with a
story of what we would get when we came to
the valley; he said: "Oh, Betsy, I wish when
we get to that creek we would meet Bob."
"Well, come along, may be we will." and when
we got to the top of the bank, we looked down
and saw a team with only one yoke of cattle
on; we had never seen the like before, so we
waited on the top until they would pass, and it
was our brother; he stared at us, and when he
halloed we knew his voice. He jumped off and
brought Mary Jane and Euphemia in his arms;
they had come up with the cart while little
Alex and I waited on the bank. How we wept
for joy. The cart was tied behind the wagon;
little Alex climbed in the wagon, as happy as a
king's son, instead of being a poor tired child.
The next question was, "Where is mother and 
Mary?" "They are behind somewhere, you
will find them by the road." Mother was still
sick, and when she stopped to rest, she had to
lie down, she could not sit up; some had died
that way; they would go to sleep like a tired
child and never wake up. Mary was afraid
mother would, and tried to arouse her by tell-
ing her there was a team coming with only one
yoke of cattle on. "Well, never mind; Mary,
don't bother me." "Well, mother, the man is
running this way; mother, it surely is Robert!"
"Oh, no, Mary, that would be too good to be
true." Well, she was soon convinced with tears
and kisses; he helped her in the wagon; then
she said, "I could not be more thankful to get
into the kingdom of heaven than I am to get
in this wagon."
	Then explanations followed. He told how
he had been sick with the mountain fever; how
he had got our letter saying we were coming,
and as soon as he could walk, he prepared to
come and meet us; he got cattle from one,
wagon and cover from another, provisions from
others. So we proved, "God helps those who
help themselves."
	Thurber, July 24, 1888.


The will of a French advocate contains the
following bequest: "I give 100,000 francs to
the local madhouse. I got this money out of
those who passed their lives in litigation; in
bequeathing it for the use of other lunatics I
only make a restitution."


