[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Bailey]
[The Deeper Melody— Chapter 4 Alice Morrey Bailey]

ifferent. Like the music. That 'trip to the moon' _.. Music a He was asleep. I sat by his bed "Yes, it's better. Soon you'll have good friends, and you'll enjoy them all the more because you'll remember how unhappy you were tohight." remembering words of inspiration and understanding, seeing a light in the dusk-shadowed room, "For it needs must be, that there is an Opposition in all things." —e-<P-oMay Calendar Elsie Sim Hansen "Today is the beginning of a new month, Mother, please may I turn the page on the calendar?" my young daughter asked as she climbed up on the kitchen stool to reach the calendar hanging on the wall. The eagerness in her young voice startled me for 4 moment as I said in surprise, "Of course you may, dear, but why get so excited about it?" A few minutes later Shirley went outside to play, but what she had said continued to linger in my thoughts. Picture did I see as I turned the pages each month? Future, like the smiling face of the lovely young girl that Shirley had seen as she opened her eyes? Each one regarded as a precious piece of clay to be moulded by my hands, thoughts, and actions into years filled with joy and satisfaction? If not, then perhaps it was time that I accepted the challenge that was before me. And hover like dark clouds to dim the days and blot out my view temporarily, but For always before me to lend a helping hand would be the tools my Heavenly Father had so generously provided for me, the tools of prayer, faith, and an unselfish desire to be of service to others, which, if used properly, would give me new strength, new ambition, and new Opportunities, each day, each month, each year, until my calendar of life would be completed. The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 4 Alice Morrey Bailey Synopsis: Steven Thorpe, a widower with three small children, is grateful to Margaret Crain, a registered nurse, for taking care of his baby during an attack of pneumonia. Margaret's mother is acting temporarily as Steven's housekeeper, while making plans for her daughter's approaching marriage to Dr. Rex Harmon. In the meantime, Steven wins back the Kettle Creek contract and is reinstated in his job. 6 ONSENSE!" said Steve. N "You're just hysterical, J. T., on getting this contract. You don't have to leave me the business to get me back into the company. I'd come under any condition." "I'm not hysterical, and this is no snap decision. I've been watching you for years, as well as a dozen other young men. Kettle Creek has been a sort of testing ground with me ever since I failed to sell them ten years ago. I knew then that the man who could would be a better man than J. Nobody has succeeded, but I was most disappointed when you failed." "Don't give me too much credit for getting back up there and selling the contract. I was thinking about it, I'll admit, but it seemed too crazy until Phyllis' nurse got the same idea. She's a pretty level sort of person, and. "Phyllis' — Yeu think she's wonderful don't you? Is she young?