[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Special Feature | Title: A New Year's Message to "Doubt not Fear not"]
A New Years Message to doubt not fear not As 1954 begins its year's span, the general board expresses gratitude for the righteousness of the lives of Relief Society members during the past year, and for their accomplishments not only in things of material value, but, above all, in the things of the spirit.

Through study and faith and works encouraged by membership in the divinely inspired Relief Society, Relief Society women, reading the signs of the times, are prayerfully strengthening their testimonies so that their faith will sustain them, their hope increase and blossom into a charity which will envelop others in need of its healing.

Known to them is the fulfillment of prophecy. In their hearts is a longing for the peace of the millennium; and the words of 'Tennyson, recently studied in Relief Society, find an echoing response: Ring out old shapes of foul disease; Ring out the narrowing lust of gold; Ring out the thousand wars of old; Ring in a thousand years of peace.

Because of wickedness, most men have ceased to anticipate the millennium.

They ascribe to modern discoveries of nature's secrets, signs of the earth's dissolution.

They deny the Maker of the worlds and his purposes, and the mission of his Son, the only name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved." 'Though "heaven and earth shall pass away; yet my words shall not pass away, but all shall be fulfilled," the Lord has told the inhabitants of this earth. But having ears they hear not, and having eyes they see not. To the righteous there are comfort and everlasting joy in the words of the Lord. As this new year grows old, let Relief Society members become safe-folded in the flock of the Master, for he has promised: "Fear not, little flock, do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my tock, they cannot prevail....

Look unto me in every thought; doubt not, fear not."

This is our prayer for our sisters of Relief Society, Act 2fpaf yerel