[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: First | Author: Carroll]
First Ladies of Our Land WIVES OF THE PRESIDENTS Part III Elsie C. Carroll ANE Appleton Pierce (1806- 1863) daughter of a college president, loved reading, music, and quiet, studious pursuits. She felt alone in chattering, laughing crowds, and was a sensitive, loving woman, of delicate and fragile constitution. At twenty-eight (in 1834) she was married to the handsome and charming Franklin Pierce, then a member of Congress. During the eight years she spent in Washington while her husband was a Senator, she constantly dreamed of the time they could return to their home in Concord, New Hampshire, and live quietly with their sons. Ina social way she did only what was necessary. It was largely because of her unhappiness that her husband did not even finish his last term as Senator. After his resignation he refused to accept a place in the cabinet offered him by President Polk. He declared he resigned so he could be with his family and he did not intend to leave them for any length of time unless his country called in time of war. Soon the war with Mexico began, and he volunteered as a private but was soon a brigadier general. He became a hero when, after being wounded, he insisted on being lifted to his horse and leading his men into battle. When the war was over he teturned to his law practice, fully inJANE APPLETON PIERCE (1806-1863 ) tending to keep his promise to Jane to keep out of public life. In 1848 he refused a nomination for Governor. But four years later there was such a clamor for him to run for President that he consented, and almost against his will he was voted into office, and served one term (1853-1857). He was the youngest man up to that time to be President—only forty-nine. A short time before his inauguration their oldest son was killed in an accident. They had already lost their two younger children, both boys. Jane never recovered from this Page 23 4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 final shock. The people of Washington loved her as she stood dutifully beside her husband at all ceremonies where she was expected to appear. She had the valor necessary to make her do graciously the tasks she dreaded, but which she performed only for her husband's sake and from a sense of duty. After their retirement from the White House in 1857, the Pierces traveled in Madeira and in Europe. Jane died in 1863, and was followed in 1869 by her sorrowing and devoted husband. James Buchanan (1857-1861), fifteenth President, was a bachelor, the first President to enter the White House unmarried and the only one to depart still a bachelor. He brought to the White House to serve as official hostess, his niece Harriet Lane Johnston, who had chosen him among all her relatives to be her guardian when, at the age of nine she was left an orphan. She made a charming First Lady when her uncle went to the White House. Mary Todd Lincoln (1818-1882) was the daughter of a prominent and influential Kentucky family. She was ambitious for her husband, the young Springfield lawyer whom she married in 1842. Her years in the White House (1861-1865) were far from happy, far from her dreams of what they would be. She was watched and gossiped about and laughed at by some who thought it ridiculous to have the wife of a prairie lawyer as First Lady. Willie (William Wallace) the third son, died during Mary's tenure in the White House, and she MARY TODD LINCOLN (1818-1882) never again entered the Blue Room, where his body had lain. However, Mary had a_ good knowledge of political affairs, a fine education, and the ability to make correct, even though often impulsive, judgments. At times she was extravagant in her dress and ran in debt for clothes and jewelry at most of the Washington stores. Over eager to fulfill the requirements of her social position, she was not always at ease and often found herself in embarrasing situations. Mary suffered over her unpopularity. On one occasion, after she had spent hours preparing to go down to a public reception, she stopped at the head of the stairs and said to her husband, "They do not want me. They say I am a FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND rebel sympathizer because I was born in Kentucky, and that I give information to the Confederates, and that [ am not loyal to you or the Union." The patient Abe agreed that they had a hard position, but reminded her that they had some very loyal friends, and that they were there in the reception rooms waiting for them. So, with head up, Mary went down to their guests. Some of their loyal friends, such as Sumner and Douglas, wanted her to stop the vicious gossip about herself by publishing the facts that she spent much time in Union hospitals helping the staffs with organizing _ details and cheering Union veterans with her keen wit, and that when she was seen riding unattended down Pennsylvania Avenue she was going to some relief work, not as the gossips rumored, to meet some Southerner. ELIZA McCARDLE JOHNSON (1808 (?) - 1876) 25 In spite of her sharp tongue and changeable disposition, Mary loved her husband and worried about his heavy responsibilities and grave problems. At last the war was over, and it seemed to her that things would be easier. Lincoln had been reelected and was being hailed as the savior of his country. Mary insisted on his going to the theatre for relaxation. 'Then came the tragedy of his assassination, April 15, 1865. Sad years for Mary followed. Her health was impaired, and the tragedies of her years in the White House had resulted in recurrent emotional and mental instability. After several years of traveling, and periods of treatment in various hospitals, she went to live with her sister, Mrs. Ninian Edwards in the old home town—Springfield, Ilhnois. After a time Sumner succeeded in getting a pension for her, but she continued to grieve until her death, seventeen years after Lincoln's death, in the same room in which she had been courted. The next First Lady, Eliza McCardle Johnson, married Andrew before his nineteenth birthday. He owned a tailoring shop and she was the daughter of a shoemaker. However, Eliza was able to assist her husband in learning to write, and she read to him while he plied his needle. They lived in the back room of the tailoring shop, but young Andrew was ambitious for learning. He joined a debating society and became known as "the village Demosthenes." During his struggle upward, Eliza took care of their home and helped to make a living for the family. After three terms as Mayor of 26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1954 Greenville, Andrew was elected to Congress, and later served two terms as Governor of 'Tennessee. Then he was elected to represent 'Tennessee as a Senator. I He fought the growing tide of secession, and it was as a Southern Unionist that he was elected VicePresident on Lincoln's ticket. The assassination of President Lincoln in 1865, brought Andrew Johnson to the Presidency and Eliza became First Lady (1865-1869). Eliza, however, was an invalid by the time she went into the White House, but she still gave comfort and encouragement to her husband during the hard years of the reconstruction, while her daughter Martha, wife of Senator David Patterson, performed the duties of official hostess in a very satisfactory manner. Martha won the respect of Washington when the family arrived and she said to a news reporter: "We are plain people from the mountains of 'Tennessee, and we do not propose to put on airs because we have the fortune to occupy this place for a little while." People respected Martha and admired her integrity. 'They did not even gossip when it was known that she brought two cows to the Capital, which she milked herself. Her teas and other socials were popular, even when her father was threatened with impeachment. Eliza helped to superintend and organize the first White House Easter party for children, and she was a kind and wise advisor to her children and a friend of all who came to the Executive Mansion. Although her health became increasingly precarious, Eliza outlived her husband six months. She died in January 1876. Julia Dent Grant (1826-1902), who was married August 22, 1848, spent the first years of her married life in one army camp after another. When her husband resigned JULIA DENT GRANT (1826-1902) from the army, they lived for a time on a farm near St. Louis, Missouri, belonging to Julia. But Grant became disabled because of illness and they left the farm. He tried several kinds of work with little success. Then came the Civil War, and it was not long before he was the general who Lincoln declared was indispensable because he won battles. During the war Julia had some dangerous experiences. Once she escaped from a garrison that was about to be taken by hiding herself and her four-year-old son in a box- FIRST LADIES OF OUR LAND car on a railroad track and waiting there until a train finally picked up the car and she was carried to safety. Her husband came out of the war as the hero who had saved the Union and was chosen President of the United States at the election in 1869, and served two terms in the White House. Julia enjoyed good health and was vivacious and energetic, and of a happy disposition; though she did not enjoy social life to a great extent, she performed her duties as First Lady with grace and charm. Nellie, the only daughter, was matried in the White House in 1874, being the seventh "daughter of a President" to be married during her father's term of office. The wedding was a social event long remembered in the capital. Julia was adored by her husband, who, in the years following his retirement from political life, and during the time of his fatal illness, wrote his personal history of the war years to provide an income for Julia after his death. With her at his side he wrote until he could no longer move a pencil, then whispered dictation of the last chapters, thus winning his last battle for the woman he loved. Ulysses Grant died in 1885, and Julia survived him seventeen years. Lucy Webb Hayes (1831-1889), the next First Lady, who was matried in 1852, celebrated her silver wedding anniversary in the White House. Friends said that she looked more attractive on that occasion even than she had at her wedding, a sweet and unassuming bride just out of college. They recognized, however, that the years LUCY WEBB HAYES (1831-1889) had given her an inner depth and poise and faith in herself which well fitted her to be mistress of the White House. There she inaugurated regular Sunday circles which she made attractive, as she did all her social functions, for which she herself superintended the decorations, the music, and the catering. It was said that she always seemed as fresh and charming at the end, even of a big reception, as at the beginning.