[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Fiction | Title: Social]
[Social Science: The Philadelphia Convention _ Albert R. Bowen 66]
Social  Science — The  Constitution 
of  the  United  States 
Lesson  6— The  Philadelphia  Convention 
Elder  Albert  R.  Bowen 
For  Tuesday,  April  27,  1954 
Objective:  To  study  the  environment  in  which  the  Constitution  was  written;  to 
observe  the  methods  employed  by  the  convention  in  considering  its  provisions;  and  to 
detennine  the  reasons  why  the  Constitutional  Convention  was  a  success. 
Importance  of  Convention  of  1787 
"PARRAND,  the  historian,  says 
that  the  Federal  Constitutional 
Convention  of  1787  was  the  most 
important  convention  that  ever  sat 
in  the  United  States.  Considering 
its  great  importance  and  the  tre- 
mendous consequences  which  were 
to  flow  from  it,  it  is  not  an  an  over- 
statement to  assert  that  the  Con- 
stitutional Convention  of  1787  was 
one  of  the  fateful  assemblies  of  his- 
tory. So  far  as  political  history  is 
concerned,  no  assembly  ever  held 
was  of  greater  significance  to  man- 
kind. Out  of  it  was  to  emerge,  in 
a  remarkably  brief  period  of  time, 
the  greatest  political  document  of 
all  time. 
Some  of  the  members  of  the 
Convention  sensed  the  significance 
of  the  task  before  them.  James 
Madison  (Virginia)  said  the  Con- 
vention was  ''now  to  decide  forever 
the    fate    of    Republican    govern- 
ment.'' Gouverneur  Morris  (Penn- 
sylvania) declared:  ''The  whole  hu- 
man race  will  be  affected  by  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  Convention."  James 
Wilson  (Pennsylvania),  with  equal 
seriousness,  stated:  "After  the  lapse 
of  six  thousand  years  since  the  cre- 
ation of  the  world,  America  now 
presents  the  first  instance  of  a  peo- 
ple assembled  to  weigh  deliberately 
and  calmly  and  to  decide  leisurely 
and  peaceably  upon  the  form  of  gov- 
ernment by  which  they  will  bind
