[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bound Volumes of 1953 Relief Society Magazines| Author: [no author listed]]
tributor to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine, 
has  recently  had  her  poems  collected  in  a 
delightful  anthology  Delicious  Lumps, 
published  by  Vantage  Press,  New  York 
City.  The  poems  are  entertaining  read- 
ing for  the  family  and  many  of  them  have 
been  used  in  plays,  programs,  and  pag- 
eants. 
Page  2 
It  certainly  was  a  thrill  to  the  Box 
Elder  Chapter  of  the  American  Associa- 
tion of  Penwomen  to  have  three  of  their 
five  poets  appear  together  in  the  Novem- 
ber Relief  Society  Magazine  (Eleanor  W. 
Schow,  Maude  O.  Cook,  and  Renie  H. 
Littlewood)  ....  Of  course  the  poetry 
is  the  first  thing  we  look  for  in  the  Maga- 
zine, but,  as  most  of  us  are  Relief  Society 
members,  we  are  also  interested  in  other 
features  of  the  Magazine  and  enjoy  every 
bit  of  it. 
— Renie  H.  Littlewood 
Brigham  City,  Utah 
I  am  glad  you  editors  enjoyed  my  poem 
"Suds"  (November  1953).  I  tried  to 
think  of  the  most  unlovely  thing  to  me 
and  write  a  poem  about  it. 
— Ivy  Houtz  Woolley 
Ogden,  Utah 
OUR  MAGAZINE 
Here's  something  we  all  love  so  well 
Our  Magazine,  dear  Magazine; 
The  help  it  gives  each  tongue  can  tell 
Our  Magazine,  dear  Magazine. 
Wherever  L.  D.  S.  are  known 
We  want  to  find  in  every  home 
A  sister  who  is  proud  to  own 
Our  Magazine,  dear  Magazine. 
— ^Annie  M.  Ellsworth,  President 
Central  States  Mission  Relief  Society 
(Verses  may  be  sung  to  the  tune  "MIA, 
Our  MIA") 
I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  tell  you  how  much  I  enjoy  The  Reliei 
Society  Magazine,  especially  since  it  is  im- 
possible for  me  to  attend  Relief  Society 
meetings,  as  we  live  nearly  fifty  miles  from 
the  nearest  branch  of  the  Church.  The 
Magazine  keeps  me  in  touch  with  what 
the  sisters  are  doing,  and  when  we  are 
in  a  location  where  I  can  attend  the  meet- 
ings, I  am  sure  I  shall  feel  at  home.  I 
enjoy  all  the  stories  in  the  Magazine,  and 
the  articles  and  poetry  immensely. 
— Maurine  B.  Hansen 
Rocky  Boy  Agency 
Box  Elder,  Montana

THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
Monthly  Publication  of  the  Relief  Society  of  The  Church  of  Jesus   Christ  of  Latter-day   Saints 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  BOARD 
Belle  S.  Spafford  ------  President