[Vol41 | January 1954 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Award Winners Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest| Author: [No author listed - appears to be an official announcement]]
THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the names of the three prize winners in the 1953 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. This contest was announced in the June 1953 issue of the Magazine, and closed September 15, 1953.

The first prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Mrs. Lizabeth Wall Madsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Wings Over the West." The second prize of twenty dollars is awarded to Dorothy J. Roberts, Salt Lake City, for her poem "A Stone in the Wilderness." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, for her poem "To Shield a King."

This poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society general board since 1924, in honor of Eliza R. Snow, second general president of Relief Society, a gifted poet and beloved leader.

The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, and is designed to encourage poetry writing, and to increase appreciation for creative writing and the beauty and value of poetry.

Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission of the general board. The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest.

There were one hundred ten poems submitted in this year's contest. Many of the poems revealed careful technique and lovely imagery, as well as profound thought development.

Twenty-two states were represented in the contest entries, the largest number of entries came in order from Utah, California, Idaho, Kansas, Oklahoma, Wyoming, and Arizona. Three entries came from England, one from Scotland, and one from Argentina.

The winner of the first prize this year, Mrs. Lizabeth Wall Madsen, was awarded second prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946. Mrs. Roberts and Mrs. Bailey have won prizes in several previous contests.

The general board congratulates the prize winners and expresses appreciation to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The general board wishes, also, to thank the judges for their care and diligence in selecting the prize-winning poems. The services of the poetry committee of the general board are very much appreciated.

The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and biographical sketches of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith.