[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 523 | General Feature | A Brace of Horses Helen | Hinckley Jones]
[A Brace of Horses Helen Hinckley Jones]
[Content needs re-extraction — duplicate of following article]

Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith of the First Presidency of the Church, has been honored by many student organizations and other groups of young people. A noted singer and beloved exemplary woman, her addresses and her singing have delighted collegiate and Church audiences. In April 1969, she was given a citation as an "Ideal Woman" by the Latter-day Saint co-eds at Utah State University, Logan, Utah. The subject of the meeting was "The Eternal Quest of Womanhood," and Sister Smith addressed the young women, sang a solo, and participated in the music presented by a special chorus.

Also, in April, Sister Smith was honored by Weber State College in the tabernacle, Ogden, Utah. President E. Lamar Buckner said that her visit was the highlight of the year, and that her singing thrilled everyone present. "We are so grateful for your spirit of dedication," he said. "We want you to know that you hold a spot in our hearts, and we shall always be grateful to you for being with us." Sister Smith spoke of the young women as diamonds in a diadem of crown jewels, advising them to make a careful selection of the jewels for their crowns.

Mrs. Evelyn LeTourneau, sixty-eight, of Longview, Texas, wife of industrialist-inventor Robert LeTourneau and mother of four sons and one daughter, was named American Mother of the Year in Los Angeles, California, last May. She was chosen, in part, because she lovingly extended her role of motherhood to students: the Winona Bible Camp groups she established in seven boys' ranches across the country and the student body of the LeTourneau Institute of Technology in Longview.

Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson McKay, a seventy-two-year-old Latter-day Saint woman from Ogden, became Utah's Mother of the Year. She was left a widow with four sons and four daughters from one to sixteen years of age and through the heroic efforts of all, the children received excellent educations and have become distinguished members of Church and community. She is a woman of talents, sterling character, and refinement.

Mrs. Edna C. Karlinsey, wife of CurtLee J. Karlinsey, Tacoma, Washington, a school-teacher and mother of seven children, represented the State of Washington as Mother of the Year. An active Latter-day Saint, she has encouraged and assisted her children in attending college and serving missions for the Church. Her talents in teaching, oil painting, and homemaking are outstanding.

Mrs. Jessie Lamb Stewart of Las Vegas, Nevada Mother of the Year, now a widow, reared four motherless children in addition to her own eight sons and daughters. A devoted Latter-day Saint, she has held numerous offices and teaching assignments in Relief Society. She assisted her husband in managing a large ranch and in raising cattle and thoroughbred horses. She is active in community affairs and in politics.

A chorus of Singing Mothers from the Los Angeles area, directed by Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society, provided music for the Awards Luncheon on May 12th.

Many of the 1969 Mothers visited Salt Lake City following the convention in California and were entertained by the Church and by Relief Society. President Belle S. Spafford is second vice-president of the American Mothers Association.

503
