[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 532 | General Feature | Editorial— To Each Is Given a Gift Louise | W. Madsen]
s anybody else's." Rosemary dimpled with pleasure. "You know when they had those adorable, ugly troll dolls? My college friends couldn't imagine why I collected them. It was so I could take them there and put them in their own setting, and someday I mean to." It was Tommy who voluntered his room for his grandfather, as Mary Ann hoped he would. "Because it is closest to the bathroom," and moved his things to the one vacated by Robert, which they had used as a guest room since, while Rosemary made the bed ready for her grandfather. "Such willing hands!" said their grandfather. "I feel as if I had dropped into a bed of roses. Everybody is so nice to me, and I don't know why—a useless old man." "Grandpa!" Tommy and Rosemary protested in unison. "You could be useless forty years and not live up your credit," Tommy went on. "How I loved my summers with you in Mayville!" "That's real nice of you children to say," said Father Freeman, "but mind you, stop me if I get to repeating myself. I've taken to reminiscing and I forget things, tell things over and over, can't remember what I've done and haven't done. I have to keep a list, I'm so old." "Dad, I do the same things," put in Kim. "Well, youre not so young yourself," said his father, looking at him astutely. "This doddering of the mind is a terrible trial to the young." "He's a darling!" pronounced Rosemary when they got back to the living room. "He looks like an angel with that shock of white hair." "I had forgotten what a beautiful old man Grandfather is," said Tommy. "But he's so pale he looks ethereal. Is anything else wrong with him—besides the hip?" "He isin remarkable condition, except for his heart. It could go any time, the doctor says, but with good care he can walk again." "With good care," said Rosemary, the little frown appearing between her brows. 'What I want to know is." "How's Cary?' demanded Mary Ann suddenly, to head Heart Room For Home off the inevitable showdown. Cary Marks was Rosemary's adored and adoring fiance, a tall, clean-limbed young man, dark and handsome in contrast to her titian loveliness. "Cary's a doll," said Rosemary, her mouth softening. "He helped me with dinner, getting the groceries. He's going to be a wonderful husband, but I told him to vamoose. I knew you'd be home, and that you would be tired." "How thoughtful of you, dear, and we are tired. Exhausted, and we're going to bed this minute." "IT didn't know then that Grandfather...." "How are Robert and Heidi? Have you heard from James? How are the girls?" Mary Ann interposed quickly. If Rosemary had a night to get used to her grandfather's presence, maybe the impact would dissipate. Tomorrow was Sunday. It might even get lost in the rush of Church duties.. You are diverting me," accused Rosemary. "Barbara and Hank wanted to come and be here when you came, but I vetoed that, too. So did Jennifer and Dick—but all those little kids!" Jennifer's five were lively and noisy. Barbara's were older. "Robert had to fly to New York for his company—they might go there to live—so Heidi went with him. It was a good chance for a vacation, with only her fare to pay. Heidi's mother is staying with the children." "To New York to live!" said Kim. "That will be a step up for Robert won't it." 527 ary Ann finning, thought It was Just "It has been £00d having them y leniene »and[ w Near. [f hey MOve to New York he t we'll never Set to see them." ¢ a bd ade a board n I wa about to O take him the p NCipal. Byt In San Francisco We rarely I Noticed th t he did all right See his family," When [I de verbal] assignments "I know." Wailed Mary Ann. And it Puzzled me. All a once 'Distances are othing, NOWait ned o e. He Can't see days," consoled Kim. "These the Oard!" Young ones flit around with mor y oSemary, how Smart! Ang fase than you IT used to how "OMpassionate! What did Set from ene town to another." You do?" "Cary and J Might £0 to Eur. "Saw that he 80t glasses right Ope," said Rosemary. "And JenWay. His Parents were dumnifer and Dick are talking of founded. ©S my star Pupil foing to Wall. He has an ofnow!" fer at Church College," "Tm thrilled You know, I "Don't talk a Out it," Said always fee] there are no bad chil Mary Ann, « OW what about en on bad "ITcumstances the School, Rosemary?" Not at that ase, anyway " Rosema Y had been her inex. Ommy was Silent, but he had Perienced, b educated Substibser alr, as he had ver ute in th fourth 8rade while h, late R ary noticed She had been One, having 8radjt uated in A Sust, too late to get "Tom Y, you're making gui 4 contract f h wn, but she nea pigs US. Do yoy take adn't Seem t Ind. « ''m notes?" not going t rk, anyhow, go "Yes," admitted T mmy,. "Vy WAY start" ha Said. "J hesis quarter jg coming up and Want to Concentrate nN havin ee e 4 perfect Wedding." Nots, but it has been oVer-explored, Now I a Open to Mary Ann's Surprise Rose. Ew SUggestions This Might be Mary brightened at the me tion o thin —what Oth ays, no of School. Ad kj S, on] bad Situations "M er, yoy Now that Or wha you did, Sis, 'The Role little —Freddy Mch—yoy of th €acher' op 'Above and Said wa 4 problem child? €yond the Call of th Three found 6 hat wa the Matter Pec, Earlier today, Watching With him? You and Cary, I almost €cided "You idn't! J] elt he had On 'Brida] OSSines Before Problem, ut didn't have tj e Marriage.' » £0 into it before we left. Wh "You Wouldn't dare!" Wailed Is the Matter With him?" Rosemary. "Well, it Was like this," "Only because I would run Rosemary q begin t the be. Out of Materia]; 528 need to know something firsthand, and you know my stand." Wes, 'Tommy's stand: "No romantic entanglements before I go on my mission," "No marriage before I get my Master's," and now, none before he got his degree, had been of growing concern for his parents. Tommy was twenty-four. "It just isn't normal for a boy not to fall in love somewhere along the line," said Kim. "IT give myself a chance," defended Tommy. "I date." "Yes!" said. Rosemary. "A - different one every week. Mother, he drops them over nothing. All Janie did was to call him,-and ' that was it!" "I don't: want girls calling me up," said Tommy. "I want to be the one who does the calling." "I can't disagree with that," said his mother. "When I was a girl no young lady called a boy up. It is no more proper now." "When Tommy falls it will be like atom-fission. I don't know that I want to be around then." "What happened to Phyllis— and Melba?" queried Mary Ann. "I thought they were nice girls." "Dream-boats, both of them," said Tommy. "But they wanted to get married. I didn't." "I hope, Tommy," said Kim, "that you are not like Kipling; "The more I see of the lot of them, the less I am settled to one.' " "The young man hunting a straight stick in the forest? No, Dad, when I am ready, she will be there—the straightest one of them all." "I hope," said Mary Ann, "that you don't get any of them to Heart Room For Home fall in love with you, then leave them to pine after you." "They'll survive," said Tommy callously. "You should have seen the 'Dear John's' my companions in the mission field received." "Maybe that should be your thesis subject," observed Rosemary. "Most of my studies have been on geriatrics. It intrigues me. Grandfather, now." "What about Grandfather?" demanded Rosemary. "What I want to know, if he has to have so much good care, is how is he going to get it here? How long is he going to stay?" She was looking at her father. He looked at Mary Ann. Here it was! "I'm going to take care of him," said Mary Ann. "How can you, with your job?" "I have to break my contract. Monday." "Just like that?" "There wasn't any other way out, Rosemary." "Couldn't Aunt Emily or Aunt Francine have taken Grandfather? At least until summer?" "They thought otherwise," said Kim. "They wanted to sell the place and put your grandfather in a rest home." "Sell the place!" said Rosemary and Tommy in_ unison. This reaction, so like their own, was at least heartwarming to "Kim and Mary Ann. "T often describe Grandfather's set-up in class, an almost totally self-containing unit—the. Cows, the chickens and garden feed the table and the table feeds the pigs. The pigs and extra produce go to market. One blissful round of living." July 1969 "In the older days," said Kim, "you added a few sheep and got your clothing and bedding out of it, with rabbit brush, indigo, and madder root for dyes." "Somebody ought to write all that down," said Rosemary. "I love old things." "I remember!" said Tommy, his eyes sparkling. "Grandmother washed the wool, picked the burrs out of it, carded it into bats and made quilts. She even made her own soap—with lye and old fat." "Her mother made her own lye, out of leached wood ashes. The early pioneers didn't have to buy a thing. They grew cane and made their own molasses, spun the fleece into yarn, and wove their own homespun, even grew cotton, and raised silk worms and made silk. I've seen samples in the museums." "How long is Grandfather going to stay?' repeated Rosemary stubbornly. "We don't know," said her father. "Your grandfather thinks he will be well enough to go home by spring, but you can 93 S@€e "What about my wedding?" pursued Rosemary. "And Tommy's thesis quarter?" "Let me worry about my own affairs, Sis," said Tommy. "I wasn't thinking of the changes it would make in our lives when I invited your grandfather—or the burden it would put on your mother," Kim said. "Neither was I," said Mary Ann. "If you had been there, Rosemary, if you had seen your grandfather, with all of us talking as if he wasn't there, the 530 tears coming down his face in spite of his efforts not to show his weakness—his physical weakness. He is proud and independent. I was proud of your father when he told him the place would never be sold—not in Grandfather's a and not in ours.' "And I was aed to hear from your mother her true feelings about her job. I had felt all along she was just saying she liked it to make us feel better about her working." "That's all very fine," said Rosemary somewhat bluntly. "But now what about my wedding? Obviously, both of you forgot about that." Rosemary was right. They had forgotten their children in the emotion-charged scene. The full brunt of their impulsive invitation had not hit them until later. Right now, as a matter of fact, Tommy had depended on his mother for his tuition and books, no small matter at this point in his education, and Rosemary had every reason to expect a lovely wedding, on the basis of their combined income. "Well, honey, we'll out," Kim said vaguely. Mary Ann realized now that she had shielded Kim in the matter of money, rushing forth with her funds whenever something above his ability to provide was needed. How could he realize the difference her salary had made in their plane of living? All the fringe items not officially listed with utilities, groceries, and house payments, the deluxe station wagon which had come into use bringmake ing his father home, the luxuries of finer clothes, a bigger fourbedroom home, including the swimming pool, extra gas and expense money for all of them. "We just have to play it by ear," he finished lamely. "I don't like ear music," said Rosemary succinctly. "Or hadn't you noticed? I like to play it as it's written—and it wasn't written this way. It is obvious that my wedding is not important to you." She went into her room and closed the door with a definite bang. Mary Ann rose to follow her. "Don't go, Mother," advised Tommy. "She has to think this thing through," but Mary Ann went anyway, entering RoseMary's room after a slight, unanswered knock. Rosemary was on her stomach on the bed. "Rosemary dear! If you'd been there! If you had seen how it was, with your aunts determined to sell the place and put the old dear into a rest home. He had been in a nursing home for a month after the hospital, and he couldn't bear it. 'Old people!' he said. 'Nothing but old people! And spaghetti one day, macaroni the next!' Your father and I couldn't bear to see your wonderful grandfather shunted off in his old age, to force him to sell his home—his whole life." "I''d really rather be alone," said Rosemary, without turning over. "I have some retirement coming, Rosemary. Not a great deal, but you can have that for your wedding." "What, exactly do you take me for?" demanded Rosemary, sitting up. "Your retirement is for your own old age! Now, really, Mother. I'd like to be alone." (To be continued ) 531 + et — =, (HA Relief Society Activities St. Louis Stake (Missouri) Presents "The Light of Sisterhood—127 Years" to Honor Visiting Teachers, March 14, 1969 Left to right: Bishop Dee Willden; Matilda Heldt; Patricia Keyes, President, St. Louis Stake Relief Society; Marilyn Hunt, President, Ft. Leonard Wood Branch Relief Society; Marg Garn, Stake Relief Society First Counselor; June Wall; Wilma Boyer, Second Counselor. Sister Keyes reports: ''We combined our visiting teacher convention with the birthday celebration, using the theme, 'The Light of Sisterhood—127 Years.' There were 190 present. Seventy-seven visiting teachers were presented with small ceramic boxes with a gold inscription '100% V. T. St. Louis Stake 1968.' Twelve other teachers were honored as outstanding visiting teachers and given special awards for 100 per cent attendance at meetings. Norma Hohl and June Wall were named outstanding visiting teachers of the year. Matilda Heldt was recognized for thirty-eight years as a visiting teacher. The Ft. Leonard Wood Branch was honored for outstanding achievements in visiting teaching. "Stake President Roy Oscarson and the bishoprics of wards assisted in presenting the awards. "The birthday cake was assembled and decorated by the stake board. It measured three feet by six feet. The program was successful and enjoyed by all who attended." SILA ETT OCs Pw ag SARE FEET PAM «CY SS Le SRP RN OY SC Midvale Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert to Honor Visiting Teachers, February 14, 1969 Officers of the Midvale Stake Relief Society Board, front row, left to right: Beverly Brown, chorister; Gloria Buck, organist; Eileen Terry, Secretary-Treasurer; Jean Owen, Second Counselor; Donna Davis, First Counselor; Jeane Reed, President; Janiel Apostle, spiritual living class leader; Delcia Weber, visiting teacher message leader; Zina Olson, Magazine representative; Elaine Nelson, homemaking leader; Caryle Young, cultural refinement class leader. Sister Reed reports: ''The theme for our visiting teacher convention was 'Love One Another,' which was particularly appropriate for Valentine's Day. "Highlighting the program was the beautiful singing by our Singing Mothers chorus composed of sisters from seven wards. Corsages were presented to nineteen sisters who have served as visiting teachers for forty years or more. Special awards were given to Sister Margaret Hall, who at eighty-six is our oldest visiting teacher; and to Sister Mary Jenkins, who has served for fifty-six years. Midvale Second Ward received a plaque honoring eighteen years of 100 per cent visiting teaching."' Sy AAR RaRRENOU OD NCRNRRE RYN ARR AO ANNE antinnk DIT A AMOANAERO NENA OM All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Ali submissions must be received within two months of the event described.

[Editorial— To Each Is Given a Gift Louise W. Madsen]

Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. . — BE a ORE NR BET ETD FO Nhe COAG PAAR 8 AEE, Pf itil Aan CANE July 1969 Minidoka Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts in 1968 February 23 and December 6 Sisters in the dark dresses in the second row, at left: Mabel B. Blacker, President, Minidoka Stake Relief Society; center, Shirley E. Brady, chorister; at right, Isabell Sorensen, organist. Sister Blacker, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented two concerts during 1968. Both were well-attended. At the first concert, Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, was present and graciously conducted several of the numbers. "The concert in December consisted of Christmas music which thrilled the heart. Each program had a narration." Grant Stake (Utah), Ninth Ward Achieves 100 Per Cent Visiting Teaching for Eighteenth Year, March 12, 1969 Beginning sixth from left on front row: Evelyn M. Edrington, Education Counselor, Grant Ninth Ward Relief Society; Erma Allen, President; Leona N. Widdowson, Homemaking Counselor; Dora Peck, Secretary-Treasurer. The sisters wearing corsages are visiting teacher supervisors. Visiting teacher message leader is Lucille Peck. Marjorie Y. Nelson, President, Grant Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Ninth Ward of our stake honored the visiting teachers of the ward at their annual birthday celebration. These sisters have achieved 100 per cent visiting teaching for the eighteenth year. "A narrative written by Ruth C. Owen, entitled 'Reflections From the Past,' was enjoyed by all. It depicted the divine origin, glorious purpose, and the inspired growth of the visiting teacher program. 'All visiting teachers were honored, but special recognition was given to the supervisors and to those who have served for more than forty years."' FO OP RE Re TE tL NR LED I MOL Tet IRE LATTA TRA EAT TT iT nT A RIE Cumorah Mission, Utica Branch (New York) Relief Society Presents Bazaar December 1968 Left to right: Marjorie Laffere, President, Utica Branch Relief Society; Dorothy Mercer, Homemaking Counselor; Barbara Moore, homemaking leader. Mary S. Bankhead, Supervisor, Cumorah Mission Relief Society, reports: ''A successful bazaar was held in the Utica Branch despite a heavy snowstorm. The display pictured is the popular Christmas booth. "Through the bazaar, the sisters had an opportunity to display their homemaking talents to the people of the area. The branch is very active and there is a close spirit of sisterhood in it." 534 2 FETE LLY PME TET ATES TS BRAY SD ALL PT APN IE A MISSION OF LOVE BRINGING TRUTH AND LIGHT TO SHOW THE WAY 10 CELESTIAL JOY LS er July 1969 Mount Ogden Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents '"'Female Relief Society of Nauvoo,'' March 6, 1969 Front row, left to right: Ethel Lewis, Homemaking Counselor, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society; Edvenia J. Malan, President; Louise Knight, Education Counselor. Brethren left to right: James Jacobs as John Taylor; Dean Gardner as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Delmar Dickson as Willard Richards. Remaining sisters are officers of wards and stake. Sister Malan reports: ''For our birthday celebration we presented a very successful program regarding the organization of Relief Society in Nauvoo. 'The script for the program was written by Ethel Lewis, using as a reference, History of Relief Society. The portrayal of the characters and the costuming were excellent, and the program carried a definite theme and feeling of authenticity." Lorin Farr Stake (Utah) Presents Nursing Program for Both Brethren and Sisters Front row, center: Maxine Marshall, Counselor, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, in charge of nursing program; directly behind her: Marilyn Page, nurse in charge of the program. Second couple from left: Stake President and Sister Lawrence D. Olphin. Remaining brethren and sisters are husband and wife graduates of the program. Virga W. Swenson, President, Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Relief Society nursing program, under the direction of seven registered nurses, has now graduated ninety-seven people. "It was the feeling of the board that the brethren could benefit from this program, not only in assisting the wife, but also in case it was the wife who should be ill. "We attribute much of the success in this program to the cooperation of the priesthood authorities. Several of the high councilmen and their wives are among the husband and wife teams who have successfully completed the course."' Reseda Stake (California) Relief Society Presents ''Some Enchanted Evening," February 22, 1969 Members of the Reseda Stake Relief Society Board, left to right: Marjorie Rose, cultural refinement class leader; Nancy Waldvogel, Homemaking Counselor; Ida Ellis, President; Helen Nichols, Education Counselor; Nina Funk, Secretary-Treasurer; Ada Steenhoek, social relations class leader; Margaret Martell, Magazine representative; Elaine Lundberg, spiritual living class leader; Betty Whiting, organist; Janell Johns; homemaking leader; Barbara Udy, chorister. Sister Ellis reports: 'One of the most successful fund-raising events we have held in our stake was 'Some Enchanted Evening,' the theme for a prime rib dinner. 'Talented musicians from the stake played during the dinner hour and after dinner, entertainment was provided by professionals from the Los Angeles area. There were 336 guests present.' 536 SR RT TA OT Eg PTD BD ee TT nT a a July 1969 — Brigham City Stake (Utah), Brigham City Third Ward Honors Sisters Over Eighty Years Old March 19, 1969 Afton H. Olsen, President, Brigham City Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'The Third Ward of our stake celebrated the birthday of Relief Society in a most unique and thoughtful way. All sisters over eighty years of age were honored at the celebration. "The honored sisters were presented with a corsage and a profile portrait. The portraits were done by Carol A. Phillips. Mary P. Reeder, chairman for the celebration, was responsible for reading and writing the life sketches of the honored sisters. There are twenty-eight sisters in the ward over eighty years old, and eighteen of them were in attendance. "Marilyn B. Miller is president of the Brigham City Third Ward Relief Society. LL ST TT LTT TA ne meee re South Summit Stake (Utah, Peoa Ward Honors Sisters for Long, Compassionate Service to Relief Society, February 11, 1969 Left to right: Edith Barnum, eighty years of age; Eva N. Laughlin, eighty nine; Jane M. Walker, eighty six. "Afton H. Marchant, President, South Summit Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Peoa Ward honored the birthday anniversaries of three of the eldest sisters in the ward. They have each given many long years of compassionate service to Relief Society, and have served many years as visiting teachers. Sister Walker served as president of the ward for over twenty years. '"'A lovely luncheon was served, complete with birthday cake. Corsages were presented to the sisters and songs reminiscent of earlier days were sung by Margaret Thomas."' TAD SETS 2 DT TT ee ON tem STU Mesa Stake (Arizona), Mesa Thirteenth Ward Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts March 29, 1968, February 27, 1969 Ada J. Jones, President, Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Thirteenth Ward of our stake has presented two concerts featuring the Singing Mothers. The theme of the first was 'Such Lovely Things.' The second told the story of our country in music, and was themed, 'Our Heritage.' "Narrating 'Our Heritage' was La Veryl B. Payne. Ida S. Church directed the group, Rae B. Dodge was pianist, and Gerda H. Flake was organist. 'Both of these concerts reflected careful planning and devoted rehearsing. The music was very lovely and enjoyed by all who attended."

538 av ae Ke zz a <a aes pte etree ead a = Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 97—Eternal Marriage Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 131:1-4; 132.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman should understand the truth that a marriage to endure after this life must be performed in a house of the Lord, and seek to attain. An eternal marriage. INTRODUCTION In conversation with Elder William Clayton, the Prophet Joseph Smith told him what ls now recorded in verses 1 through 4 of Section 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants pertaining to marriage. Section 132 is the revelation on celestial marriage, which includes plural marriage as well as eternal marriage. It is believed that the revelation on plural marriage was received as early as 1831, but Section 132 was committed to writing on July 12, 1843. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. 5, p. Xxxi [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.) Inasmuch as the Lord by revelation has withdrawn the prac- 540 tice of plural marriage, it is only necessary to mention the principle in this lesson. (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, pp. 213-18.) It is well to remember that this practice is proper only when the Lord commands it. (D&C 49:15- 17; Joseph Fielding Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 323-24; Jac. 2:27-30.) The penalty for practicing plural marriage by a member of the Church today is excommunication, the same as for others who commit adultery. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, p. 280.) Exaltation in the celestial kingdom requires eternal marriage but does not require plural marriage. In the revelation regarding eternal marriage, the expression "if a man marry a wife," or a similar expression, is used. (D&C 132:15, 18, 19, 26, 41.) IN THE BEGINNING In the beginning God ordained that marriage should be a part of earth experience for his sons and daughters. The following reveals that truth and also that this principle was intended as a part of the plan of salvation: And again, verily I say unto you, that whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man. Wherefore, it is lawful that he should have one wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, and all this that the earth might answer the end of its creation: And that it might be filled with the measure of man, according to his creation before the world was made. (D&C 49:15-17.) In discussing the marriage of Adam and Eve, Elder Harold B. Lee, of the Council of the Twelve, referred to its perpetuity, as follows: Here [Genesis 2:18, 22-24] was a marriage performed by the Lord between two immortal beings, for until sin entered the world their bodies were not subject to death. He made them one, not merely for time, nor for any definite period; they were to be one throughout the eternal ages. If you were to say that because Adam and Eve transgressed and became subject to death that this eternal union was broken, then just remember that the purpose of the atonement by Jesus Christ was to restore that which was lost by the fall. Their restoration then to each other after the resurrection would not require a re-marriage, for death to them was not a divorce; it was only a temporary separation. Resurrection to immortality meant for them a_ reunion and an eternal bond never again to be severed. "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive."