[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 492 | Special Feature | How I Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants Roy | W. Doxey]
[How I Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants Roy W. Doxey]
[Content needs re-extraction — duplicate of following article]

June 1969

As pointed out a year ago, no individual or family can exist in isolation. In many significant ways a woman's first responsibility is to herself and to her family, but she also needs to function meaningfully with other people—as a friend and neighbor, as a Church worker, and as a citizen of the community, the nation, and the world. Moreover, in all of these things she needs to find a happy balance between work, recreation, relaxation, spirituality, and cultural fulfillment.

Each lesson in the Cultural Refinement program for this year will focus upon community involvement that is meaningful, wholesome, and well balanced. As in former years, each section of the text will include more material than can easily be covered in a single lesson. This is done intentionally so that each class leader may choose those selections that she responds to with enthusiasm and that she feels are especially appropriate to her group. It is far better to cover one or two selections thoroughly and in such a way that they really touch the lives of the women than it is to cover all of the selections hastily and superficially. Any selections not used in the Relief Society lessons are still available for excellent enrichment readings within the home.

The year ahead will be the fourth year in which music and painting are used to supplement the literature in each lesson. Once again we encourage class leaders to harmonize the music and art as fully as possible into the lesson goals for each month rather than use them merely as decoration. We know that this is difficult, but the challenge can be met with careful advance planning, i.e., by careful allocation of time, by using them either as introductory or concluding material, or by using them as special assignments.

Once again we also urge class leaders to get as many Relief Society sisters as possible personally involved in each lesson. If the lesson is simply a monthly presentation by the teacher to women who have not read the material and do not participate in experiencing it, the lesson probably will not be very meaningful. All Relief Society sisters should be encouraged to read the selections in advance, participate in presenting them or at least in discussing them, and then take them home to their husbands and children for family enrichment. With this approach each lesson can be deeply meaningful and permanently useful.

The overall theme for the year is "Woman's fulfillment through service to others and involvement in the lives of others" and the outline of individual lessons is as follows:

Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom

"My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free."—Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.)

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969
Southern Hemisphere: March 1970

Objective: To demonstrate that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty.

476

Lesson Previews

Music: "Blanik" from Ma Vlast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Czech

Lesson 2—The Role of Education
"The object of true education is to make people not merely do the right things but enjoy them."—John Ruskin
    Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1969
    Southern Hemisphere: April 1970
Objective: To show the development of individual capacity is a primary source of social or community strength.
Art: "The Girl in White" by Julian Alden Weir (1852-1919) American

Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication
"There is no more sure tie between friends than when they are united in their objects and wishes."—Cicero
    Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970
    Southern Hemisphere: May 1970
Objective: To illustrate that those who can communicate can work together, and those who work together make civilization possible.
Art: "Advice to a Young Artist" by Honore Daumier (1808-1879) French

Lesson 4—The Place of Entertainment
"Any pleasure which keeps the heart from God will be fatal to the soul."—Richard Fuller
    Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1970
    Southern Hemisphere: June 1970
Objective: To show that there is a valid place for entertainment and pleasure in life but that these should always be in good taste and in accordance with Church standards.
Music: "The Telephone, a "mini-opera" by Gian Carlo Menotti (1911-    ) American (Italian-born)

Lesson 5—The Necessity of Service
"Humblest service done by willing and discerning souls is glory."—George Eliot
    Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1970
    Southern Hemisphere: July 1970
Objective: To emphasize that service makes a citizen out of an inhabitant and a community out of a town.
Art: "The Blind Girl" by John Everett Millais (1829-1896) English

Lesson 6—The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure
"All true work is sacred; in all true work, were it but true hand-labor, there is something of divineness."—Thomas Carlyle
"Without leisure we must live above the surface of things; leisure brings penetration."—Manly Hall
    Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1970
    Southern Hemisphere: August 1970
Objective: To stress that both work and leisure can contribute to improvement when balanced wisely.
Art: "La Grande Jatte" by Georges Seurat (1859-1891) French

477
