[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]

Does it differ in any respect? Why or why not? Optional Lessons in ieu of Social Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) THE PRESIDENCY A UNIT- THE THREE ARE ONE Elder T. Edgar Lyon Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 OUR course of lessons for this and the ensuing year is to be devoted to a study of the First Presidencies that have guided the destiny, under the hand of God, of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints.
These men were strong men, men of faith, men possessed of leadership ability and determined that God's work should be foremost in their lives. Two or three of the early leaders were not strong enough to withstand the persecutions they were called to endure, nor were they unselfish enough to lose all for the gospel, and they became critical of the Prophet, estranged from the saints and lost their influence with the people.
They were replaced in their positions of authority by stronger and more faithful men. But while they remained true, they were instruments in the hand of the Lord in furthering his work. One of the unique features of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is its plan of lay-leadership.
Just as in the days of the Apostolic Church its leaders were drawn from men who made their livelihood from the various occupations of the day.
Some continued to pursue their vocations along with their Church work until the end of their mortal administrations. It was to be a Church of its people —in which the members could be mutually helpful in working out their salvation. The Lord's Church, however, demands centralized guidance and a regulation of the Priesthood authority, divinely restored to the earth, otherwise the very power of its democracy and lay-leadership would lead to schisms that would destroy it. So the Lord established by revelation presiding quorums through which is given divine guidance for the Church in all its activities both spiritual and temporal.
Foremost among these presiding
494 RELIEF SOCIETy MAGAZINE quorums is that of the First Presidency of t he Church. The President of this quorum is defined in the Doc-trine and Covenants as the ". . . pre-siding High Priest over the High Priesthood of the Church" (107: 66) .
Prior to the organization of the Church, John the Baptist instructed Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery (May 1829) that they should be called respectively the first and second elders of the Church (D.H.C. (1, 40-41). The Prophet Joseph was President of the Church from April 6, 1830 to the day of his death. It was in November, 1832, that a First Presidency of the Melchizedek Priesthood was announced (D. & C. 68:15). But it was not until March of the following year that Joseph Smith was called by revelation to this Presidency (81:1-3). A month or so later (April 1832) at a conference held in Missouri, he was acknowledged President of the High Priesthood of the Church.
Sometime in March, 1832, Frederick G.
Williams was designated by revelation (81:1) to be a counselor to Joseph Smith; but it was nearly a year thereafter, March 18, 1833, when a Council of the First Presidency was fully organized, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G.
Williams being set apart as Joseph's counselors. It will thus be seen that it was nearly three years from the organization of the Church before the highest Council was fully developed and completed (Widtsoe, John A., Priesthood and Church Government, pp. 258-259). The Prophet Joseph presided over the Church by virtue of his presidency over the High Priest-hood of the Church and his ordination to that office.
Each succeeding president has functioned by these same powers, assisted by counselors of his own choosing. Be-cause the presidency has acted as a unit in its administrative functions, the counselors have not become known for their individual contributions to t he Church. It is hoped that these lessons can point out some of the vital things they contributed to the welfare of the Church. A study of the contributions that these Church leaders have made to the Church should make us more appreciative of our religious heritage and cause us to prize our gospel teaching and its opportunities more than we commonly do. It is not the intention in these articles to give a complete biographical sketch of the life of each person studied.
These can be found in convenient form elsewhere. Our intention is to stress their characters, their special talents and strengths in meeting the needs of their times, and the contributions that they made to Church growth and stability. The lessons as outlined for the first year are as follows: Lesson 1. The Presidency oi the Prophet Joseph Smith Lesson 2. The Presidency oi the Prophet Joseph Smith (concluded) L es son3. T he Presidency of Brigham Young Lesson 4. The Presidency of Brig-ham Young (concluded) Lesson 5. The Presidency of John Taylor Lesson 6. The Presidency of Wilford Woodrow Lesson 7. The Presidency of Lorenzo Snow The following books will be found to be of greatest general value to the class leader: Jenson, Andrew, L.D.S. Biographical Encyclopedia, 4 vols. Nibley, Preston, The Presidents of the Church.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Roberts, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church, 6 vols. Smith, Joseph Fielding, Essentials in Church History. 495
Improvement Era. Consult Master Index by name of person. Various published biographies of the individual characters. Lesson -1—Presidency of the Prophet Joseph Smith Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, October 26, 1948
President Joseph Smith
JOSEPH SMITH WHEN
Joseph Smith was born at Sharon, Vermont, on December 23, 1805, a life had commenced that was ultimately to influence the course of millions of lives in all portions of the world. The family came from New England stock who had emigrated to America from England in 1638. Joseph Smith's parents were devout believers in the Savior and his atoning work as related in the New Testament. When, in the spring of 1820, an attempt was made by the three popular churches of the American frontier—the Methodist, Presbyterian, and Baptist faiths—to get the setters in the vicinity where the Smiths resided interested in joining one of their churches, Joseph's mind was, as he expressed it, "called up to serious reflection and great uneasiness." The zealous proponents of organized religion were insisting that religious truths could be gained from three sources: first, from the Bible; second, from the writing of the early Christian fathers and church councils; and third, by human reasoning, based on the Bible and a study of historic Christianity. Joseph Smith was not a trained religious scholar, nor was he acquainted with the history, documents, and traditions of the Christian world, hence these channels were not open to him. His approach to the problem of finding religious truth was characterized by a child-like faith.
Just as great pioneers in science and education have cast traditional beliefs and practices aside and undertaken experimental research to discover truth, he subjected his religious perplexity to objective experimentation. He resorted to the method of God's anointed leaders in the early days of the Christian Church, namely, prayet and guidance through revelation. In his own words: In the midst of this war of words and tumult of opinions, I often said to myself: What is to be done? Who of all these parties are right; or, are they all wrong together? If any one of them be nght, which is it, and how shall I know it? While I was laboring under the extreme difficulties caused by the contests of these parties of religionists, I was one day reading the Epistle of James, first 496 chapter and fifth verse, which reads: If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.
Never did any passage of scripture come with more power to the heart of man than this did at this time to mine. It seemed to enter with great force into every feeling of my heart. I reflected on it again and again, knowing that if any person needed wisdom from God, I did; for how to act I did not know, and unless I could get more wisdom than I then had, I would never know; for the teachers of religion of the different sects understood the same passages of scripture so differently as to destroy all confidence in settling the question by an appeal to the Bible. At length I came to the conclusion that I must either remain in darkness and confusion, or else I must do as James directs, that is, ask of God. I at length came to the determination to ''ask of God," concluding that if he gave wisdom to them that lacked wisdom, and would give liberally, and not upbraid, I might venture (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2: 10-13).
Unlike other religious founders, Joseph Smith was not a member of an already existing sect that he sought to reform.
Neither did he lead a group of followers out of a church to form the nucleus of an apostate faction. Nor did he deliberately start out to found a new church, with preconceived notions about its theological teachings. He was commissioned, by the Father to bring to an apostate world the gospel of Jesus Christ, through the restoration of the Church of Jesus Christ in its original form. As mentioned in the Preview, the Lord decreed that his kingdom on earth should be directed by a First Presidency.
During the fourteen years that he presided over the Church, Joseph Smith had the assistance of counselors, four men at different times, serving in this capacity RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948
With them he directed the various activities of the Church and its members. One of the tasks that occupied part of the time of the First Presidency was the regulation of the temporal affairs of the Church and the welfare of those who embraced its teachings. In the financial difficulties and in the persecutions in Ohio, Jackson, Clay, and Caldwell counties in Missouri and Nauvoo, the First Presidency assisted Church members and sacrificed and suffered with them.
Another duty that rested upon the First Presidency was that of directing the missionary activities of the Church.
They directed the establishment and operation of the School of the Prophets, which was designed primarily to better equip missionaries and Church leaders for their responsibilities.
During the administration of Joseph Smith, missionary work was commenced in the eastern, southern, New England, and mid-western states of the Union; in Canada, Great Britain, and in some of the islands of the Pacific; and Palestine was dedicated for the gathering of the Jews and the ultimate opening of that land to the missionary work of the restored gospel. In one great work, however, Joseph Smith stood quite apart from his counselors. It was imperative that further revelations be received if the gospel in its fullness as restored to earth should be understood. Joseph Smith, as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator met this need as an instrument in the hands of God and throughout his life continued to build up the body of theological principles through the revelations he LESSON DEPARTMENT received. 'These he interpreted in terms of daily religious living. It is due to his efforts in this respect that the gospel came to be a way of living, rather than a way of believing only. In addition to the restoration and the interpretation of the true purposes and meanings of the first principles and ordinances of the gospel, Joseph Smith gave to the world the true form, power, organization, and purpose of the Church as an instrument in the hands of God to accomplish his purposes on earth. He revealed the great doctrine of salvation for the dead, without which the benefits of the atonement of Christ become limited to those who were members of his Church on earth and are not available to those who die without a knowledge of Christ and his gospel. The keys of the priesthood were again restored to earth. The eternity of the marTiage covenant, and the concept of eternal progression were glorious truths received as a heritage from the revelations to the first President of the Church. In spite of the high position and the keys he held and the great devotion of his numerous followers, Joseph Smith remained essentially a common man among common men. In 1844, Josiah Quincy described him in Nauvoo as one dressed in the "costume of a journeyman carpenter," but added: A fine-looking man, is what the passet-by would instinctively have murmured upon meeting the remarkable individual who had fashioned the mold which was to shape the feelings of so many thousands of his fellow mortals. But Smith was more than this, and one could not resist the impression that capacity and resource were natural to his stalwart person. 497
Comparing Joseph Smith to another interesting acquaintance, Mr.
Quincy continues: Of all men I have met these two seemed best endowed with that kingly faculty which directs, as by intrinsic right, the feeble or confused souls who are looking for guidance...
Both were of commanding appearance, men whom it seemed natural to obey (Josian Quincy, Figures of The Past, pp. 321, 233). HYRUM SMITH Hyrum Smith No great man stands alone in his triumphs, and Joseph Smith had stalwart assistants upon whom he leaned for encouragement and support, and to whom he delegated part of the responsibility of the management of the growing Church. The one closest to him in this work was his brother Hyrum, who was his second counselor from November 7, 1837 until January 19, 1841, when he was sustained as Patriarch to the Church. The literature of the world records some stories of great love that has existed between men. The Greeks had their account of Damon and Pythias; the Hebrews, the touching friendship of David 498 and Jonathan; but in the love of Joseph and Hyrum for each other we have a love of brothers that stands out as a classic account of a love that was stronger than the fear of death.
Joseph paid him this tribute: I could pray in my heart that all my brethren were like unto my beloved brother Hyrum, who possesses the mildness of a lamb, and the integrity of Job, and in short, the meekness and humility of Christ and I love him with that love that is stronger than death, for I never had occasion to rebuke him, nor he me. Hyrum Smith was born February 9, 1800, at Tunbridge, Vermont, being nearly six years older than the Prophet. He was of a religious temperament, and although he had not affiliated himself with any church until he was twenty years of age, he had been reared with the New England religious concepts so that when the religious revival was instituted at Palmyra, New York, in the spring of 1820, he, his mother, a sister and a brother joined the Presbyterian faith.
This was in reality a return to the traditional family religion in New England. However, when his younger brother Joseph reported his vision, Hyrum became his staunch supporter and all through the trying times never varied from his loyal devotion to his brother.
There is a powerful evidence of the sincerity of Joseph Smith in this fact that he could convince his own brother and others in the family of the reality of his revelations.
Hyrum was baptized in Seneca Lake in June 1829, and became a persistent advocate of the new religious principles. He it was who first met Parley P.
Pratt and converted him to the restored gospel. A study of Church history reveals many other converts whose first acquaintance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 with the latter-day work came through a contact with Hyrum.
Hyrum was one of the eight witnesses to the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon. Parley P.
Pratt tells how much his first conversation with Hyrum influenced him. He wrote: He also unfolded to me the particulars of the discovery of the Book; its translation; the rise of the Church of Latterday Saints, and the commission of his brother Joseph, and others, by revelation and the ministering of angels, by which the apostleship and authority had been again restored to the earth.
After duly weighing the whole matter in my mind I saw Clearly that these things were true; and that myself and the whole world were without baptism, and without the ministry and ordinances of God; and that the whole world had been in this condition since the days that inspiration and revelation had ceased—in short, that this was a new dispensation or commission, in fulfilment of prophecy, and for the restoration of Israel, and to prepare the way before the second coming of the Lord (Autobiography of Parley P. Pratt, p. 39).
When the Prophet and_ others were arrested at Far West, Missouri, late in October 1838, and incarcerated during the winter of 1838-39 in Liberty and other Missouri jails, Hyrum was one of those apprehended.
Although he had many opportunities to escape, he refused to desert his brother Joseph. When Joseph Smith went to Carthage late in June 1844, to answer to charges growing out of the destruction of the Nauvoo Expositor, Hyrum insisted on going with him. He remained with his beloved brother by his own choice.
Hyrum was killed shortly before the Prophet. The epitaph, "In life they were not divided, and in death they were not separated!" (D. & C. 135:3) isa fitting tribute to Hyrum as well as Our Reputation Each and every O. P. Skaggs System Store stands squarely on its reputation of fair and honest dealing. Our customers are our friends. Any profit we hope to make must be honestly earned through rendering you efficient service at a fair charge. We can hope to merit your friendship and patronage on no other basis. Try an O. P. S.
Store the next time you go shopping. O. P. SKAGGS - Officient Service elem 'System
STORES RONIE JOHNSON
For 58 YEARS.. This means hundreds of our markers— larger Headstones—and Monuments— are memorials in City Cemetery—Mt. Olivet and the other ones. THE FINEST OF GRANITES BEAUTIFULLY DESIGNED SALT LAKE MUNUMENT CUMPANY Same Location Since 1890 186 N Street—Opposite Main Entrance City Cemetery Phone 4-4025
Salt Lake City SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. It's Just a Step TO A FRIENDLY Sears Store ».. The big, chock-full-of-value store that's so easy to reach. With plenty of FREE PARKING space, and no downtown traffic to dodge. You'll find Sears dollar-saving bargains just a few minutes from your own front oor. Main or State at 8th South Dial 5-6651
Park Free Professional a raat Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 499 500
Joseph. After the martyrdom, the Times and Seasons printed an editorial in which this was said of Hyrum: He lived so far beyond the ordinary walk of man, that even the tongue of the vilest slanderer could not touch his reputation. He lived godly and he died godly. His greatest contribution to the Church is found in his stalwart support of his Prophet-brother. With him he was so closely identified that it is almost impossible to discover wherein one acted apart from the other. In the midst of the Prophet's many trials and disappointments, often being deceived by those whom he trusted, God had given him one who stood firmly by him and from whom he gained strength. At the time of Hyrum Smith's death, his son Joseph Fielding, born to his wife, Mary Fielding, was five years old. Joseph Fielding Smith later became the sixth president of the Church, presiding with great dignity and honor over the Church for which his father gave his life. Topics for Study and Discussion 1. What characteristics of the boy, Joseph, particularly fitted him for the work he was to be called to do? What incidents in his later life exemplify the same characteristics? 2. Read section 11 of the Doctrine and Covenants. What influence did this revelation have upon Hyrum Smith? Relate incidents in his life which show this influence. 3. In what ways did Hyrum support and strengthen his brother, the Prophet? Give examples. 4. Read verses 91-96, section 124, Doctrice and Covenants. What is meant by the words in verse gl—"by blessing and also by right"? Smiru, Josern Freipine, Life of Joseph F. Smith, pp. 38-128. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 ITS THRIETY ELECTRIC COOKING... SAVES in many ways in more than 50,000 homes in the territory we serve. UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. BALANCED EDUCATION Combining Character Development with Technical Training IS AVAILABLE AT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY You will find what you need among the offerings of more than 50 departments in the colleges of Applied Science, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, Fine Arts, or in the Graduate School. Registration for the Autumn Quarter begins September 27. Freshman Orientation and Personnel Tests will be given September 24 and 25. Write for your copy of the 1948-49
Catalog to BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH THE SEVENTH HANDCART COMPANY The Seventh Handcart Company (Continued from Page 451) ox, they could have it. This seemed a miracle to these hungry people. Ey used the meat sparingly and it lasted several weeks. With supplies low, and flour almost gone, they approached the Great Salt Lake alley. The Johnston Army was held by the Federal Government at Fort Bridger during the winter of 1857, and it did not come towards Salt Lake until the spring of 1858, when it marched below town and traveled to Cedar Valley. Three of the young men of the Seventh Handcart ompany were called to stand guard in Echo Canyon. When the handCart Company was less than 100 miles from Salt Lake City, teams came to meet the people, bringing food and supplies, and cake and fruit for the sick and feeble. The courage and faith of these young people who walked all the Way to the mountains and arrived in Salt Lake City, September 13, 1857, can never be excelled,