[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Life and Colton]

Page 471 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Elder Don B. Colton Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THIS preview of the second year's course in the series entitled "The Life and Ministry of the Savior" introduces the eight lessons for 1948- 49. The textbook to be followed again this year is Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage. Each of the first eight lessons of the series for 1947-48 covered two chapters of the text. This year only one chapter of the text will be treated in each lesson, as it is felt that each chapter provides sufficient material to occupy the full theology class period. Material for lesson enrichment will be found in the references at the end of each chapter. Class leaders are advised to guide the discussion in the theology classes so that extraneous or controversial subjects do not enter into it, and only outlined subject matter is considerd. The main objective of the course is to give the women of the Church opportunity to study and discuss events in the life of the Savior and his teachings, thereby strengthening their faith and increasing their testimonies. For more than nineteen centuries righteous people have found consolation and hope in such study, and it is hoped that each course in this series will bring increased joy and understanding to Relief Society members. Page 472
The titles of the eight lessons for this year's course are the names of chapters 17 to 24, inclusive, of the textbook Jesus the Christ. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 9. "The Sermon on the Mount" Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount." Lesson 10. "As One Having Authority" Objective: To offer proof that Jesus the Lord possessed the fulness of divine power and authority. Lesson 11. "He Spake Many Things Unto Them in Parables" Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom. Lesson 12. "Peace, Be Still' Objective: To strengthen faith in the Lord Jesus Christ through the recognition of his power over the forces of nature, men, and even demons. Lesson 13. "The Apostolic Mission, and Events Related Thereto" Objective: To show how those who put their trust in the Lord gain spiritual power and knowledge. Lesson 14. "A Period of Darkening Opposition" Objective: To acquaint class members with the events of the Savior's life during the time he was preparing the apostles for their final great responsibilities. Lesson 15. "The Transfiguration" Objective: To become acquainted with one of the outstanding events of the Savior's earthly ministry. Lesson 16. "From Sunshine to Shadow" Objective: To follow the Savior in his final preparation for the supreme sacrifice, and to show how he prepared his apostles for their great missions. Textbooks Talmage, James E.: Jesus the Christ, Deseret Book Company, $2.50. Lesson 9 THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 17 by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, October 5, 1948
Objective: To create a deep appreciation of the Savior and his gospel by a study of the masterful "Sermon on the Mount." Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. THIS great discourse was delivered by the Savior about the time of the calling and ordination of the Twelve, and portions of the address were delivered primarily to them. The sermon has been called the Constitution of Christianity. It does contain many of the fundamental principles. It is a masterpiece of literature. The word pictures are very impressive. Examples: ... A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid (Matt. 5:14). Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? (Matt. 7:16). Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask for bread, will he give him a stone? (Matt. 7:9). For nearly two thousand years, righteous people everywhere have found great consolation in what has come to be known as the "Beatitudes.'' The assurance or that conditions hereafter will be better, has sustained and comforted the less fortunate in every nation.
Clearly the blessings and happiness promised are not all to be realized in their fulness in this life. The Beatitudes are directed to the duties of mortal life as a preparation for a greater existence yet future." The question, "How can I be happy?" is uppermost in the minds of most people.
What we are determines, largely, our happiness in life. The blessings enumerated by Jesus give us the key: It is being merciful, pure in heart, loving even our enemies— these and others he named as necessary to the "peace which passeth all understanding." It should always be noted that the teaching of the Savior was an invitation to approach his standard as nearly as possible and, with satisfaction, enjoy his message. His intercession for us, individually, is grounded upon merit and, therefore, justice must ultimately prevail.
Firm faith in this, and in the final triumph of right, is very comforting. An interesting discussion of the difference between pleasure and hapPiness is found on page 247 of the text, Jesus the Christ. The Law Superseded by the Gospel - He had come, not to destroy the law, but to fulfill it and to establish that which the Prophets had foretold would come. The explanation of this as de livered to the Nephites is: And it came to Pass that when Jesus had said these words he perceived that there I say unto you that the law is fy).
Filled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not been fulfilled in me, verily J The gospel did not destroy the Osaic law; it supplanted that law by a higher and more perfect one. The law provided 4 specific penalty for an evil deed while the gospel forbade forbade even the evil thoughts and passions which led to the bad deed. A good illustration is the sin against the moral laws.
Jesus said this sin began with the lustful look and sometimes with evil thoughts. He struck at the very root of evil. We should avoid evil thinking. The thought is 475 so often father to the act, Is pronouncement against divoIce was very strong. It May be well for class leaders to read at this Point Matthew 19:4-9. God's law contemplates that man and wife shall not be divorced.
That was the law in the beginning, although divorce has been permitted, or, as the Savior said, "suffered," at times for Particular reasons.
Retaliation had been permitted under the Moasic law. "Thus an eye was demanded for the loss of an eye, a tooth for a tooth, a life for a life." It was the law in those days that if a Roman demanded that a Jew go with him a mile to carry a urden or for other Purposes the Jew must 80.
Jesus urged that one should go the second mile. He Probably did not mean that the apostles should be abjectly subservient work in the ministry more efficient. Ly. Let th be enhanced. It was an entirely new doctrine the Lord taught: -. - Love your enemies, bless them that Curse you, do good to them that hate you, 476 and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you (Matt. 5:44).
This would train them to be longsuffering and tolerant as our Father in heaven. He causes the rain to fall and the sun to shine on the just and the unjust. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect (Matt. 5:48).
Sincerity of Purpose The Master enjoined upon his followers sincerity and denounced hypocrisy. He was emphatic as regards the giving of alms so that it might be seen of men. The saying of prayers to be heard of men was also severely condemned.
Then followed the giving of a model prayer. The Lord's Prayer, as it is called, is so all inclusive and yet so easily understood and soul-inspiring that it should be memorized. (See Matthew 6:9-13.) For the first time permission was given to address Elohim as "Our Father." The common brotherhood of man and our relationship to Christ, our Elder Brother, are clearly declared. One stands in wonder and awe at the nearness to the infinite Deity. We get a glimpse of the reason for God's great love. Our Father!
What meaningful words! Read, or sing, that marvelous hymn, "O My Father." (Read Jesus the Christ, pages 238-242.) Another new doctrine: For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses (Matt. 6:14-15).
Treasures of Earth and of Heaven It is comforting to many to read the Lord's estimate of true wealth. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 He especially contrasts enduring riches of eternity with the passing wealth of this world. A life well spent in doing good deeds is far more desirable than one spent in amassing and hoarding gold or silver. How oft we hear his statement, "For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Matt.6:21).
When he turned to a discussion of the inner self, the Master showed his keen discernment of the forces of life. "The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light" (Matt. 6:22). Of course, he was speaking of the natural or mortal eye. It receives the light of the sun and gives light unto the body. Likewise, if the spiritual eye is undimmed by sin, one can see the pathway to God. Job said, "For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes" (Job 11:4). It is clear that if we are to know God we must serve him and keep his commandments.
Especially with the apostles there was to be no middle pathway. Truly Jesus was the Master Teacher. How well he led his listenets from the known to the unknown! He talked of how well the Father cares even for the fowls of the air, that faith might be increased in the hearts of those who heard him. If God fed the birds, and arrayed the lilies of the field better even than Solomon was arrayed, how much more would he watch over those whom he had called to be messengers of life and salvation. Hypocrisy Further Condemned The followers of Jesus are admonished not to judge others. "It is high LESSON DEPARTMENT ter to leave Judgment with the Lord. The world, our life eternal with God. Ise Contained jn Matthew h is in heaven will enter into the kingdom of heaven, Hearing and Doing Jesus knew that some who listened to him deliver his great address him and forget it all Oo the Mount humbl without feeling that no On earth ever taught us as did Jesus, Questions and Suggestions for iSCussion 1.
Read the Beatitudes, in them, 2.
State some of the instructions which €SuS gave to his chosen Twelve, 3- What ences between Eospel of Christ? 4.
Repeat the golden rule.