[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Christensen HANDCART COMPANY, 1857
Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF All NatTIONS" THE NECESSITY OF PRAYER: I fully realize that the unexpected duties the young daughters of Zion are frequently called upon to perform, remind us that we should always be prepared, and without we live prayerful lives we cannot do right. We are different to the world; they have no revelation to guide them which we claim to have, and if we write or say anything that is not according to truth and righteousness, those who are over us (being placed there by the Lord) can soon detect an error, and so can those in the Church who may read and learn what we say, for those who do right all see eye to eye. Let us pray for our brethren and sisters who are over us in the Lord, who are ever on the watchtower, for we are told to do so, and it is a pleasant duty for us, so let us be friends to each other, trying to overcome everything wrong, that we may be as the wise virgins, having oil in our lamps, not copying after the world—Mary A. Freeze FROM OGDEN: On Thursday, July 19th, there will be an Anniversary Meeting in Ogden, at the Tabernacle, to commemorate the last visit of Prest. Brigham Young to that city, and also to celebrate the first appointment of a President to preside over the sisters' organizations in a Stake capacity. Prest. Young, at the meeting in the Ogden Tabernacle, July 19, 1877, appointed Mrs. Jane S. Richards President over the Relief Society and Young Ladies' Associations in all Weber Stake, and said quarterly reports were to be given of the condition of each Society, and gave much valuable instruction at that time. Prest.
Young in his remarks said, concerning the mothers: "Mothers are the moving instruments in the hands of Providence to guide the destinies of nations," and he exhorted mothers to teach their children not to make war, but to teach them peace. He asked the question, "Who gives the key to the nations of the earth? It is the mothers!" His instructions were most fatherly, and it seemed as though every one present felt the influence thereof. It was the last time he spoke to the Relief Society and Retrenchment Associations, and it seems most proper to commemorate the event. ARISE! SHINE! FOR THY LIGHT IS COME! Arise! Arise! Thy light is come! O, Zion, rise and shine! Put all thy beauteous garments on, Uplift those eyes of thine, For glory all unspeakable Is risen over thee; Thy Lord, the incomparable, Thy light and joy will be. —Lu Dalton. WHAT CONSTITUTES A TRUE WOMAN: True womanhood defined, implies—virtue and purity, love and friendship, truth and sympathy, grace and refinement, modesty and intelligence.
Though her sphere may seem humble, yet she can make it noble and queenly. She must live for those around her, and not for self alone. It is hers to rear the souls of men, to form the characters of future generations. It is a duty that each woman owes to her family and to society—to be cheerful and pleasant, courteous and friendly, neat and cleanly in her personal habits. I would say to the daughters of Zion, be humble and prayerful in order to retain the Holy Spirit to direct our minds, our words, our deeds, that we may be worthy the name of true, noble, women—daughters of God.—Truth Page 452