[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Peacemakers Johns]

Show how faith and love are necessary to live It, PEACEMAKERS the days of the Savior. Key to It is far bet.
Appiness by Securing peace of mind 
 —JULY 1948
Ussiting Seachers' IT lessages—Our Savior Speaks Elder H. Wayne Driggs Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THE Visiting Teachers' Messages for 1948-49 will tie in with our theology lessons: "The Life and Ministry of the Savior." The messages will be admonitions and other significant statements of Christ which are timely today. As far as possible, the messages will be suited to the particular month in which they are to be presented. The main title of the series will be: "Our Savior Speaks." The subtitles for the various months will be as follows: Lesson 1. "Ye shall do the works which ye see me do." Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as "'the grand key words of the Society" and to point out that the objective of Relief Society has never changed. Lesson 2. "Where are the nine?" (Luke 17:17) Objective: To warn against the sin of ingratitude. Lesson 3. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matt. 25:40). Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving. Lesson 4. "In the world ye shall have tribulation but be of good cheer" (John 16:33). Objective: To give encouragement to face the coming year courageously. Lesson 5. "Judge not that ye be not judged" (Matt. 7:1).. Objective: To point out that it is not our place to pass judgment on another. Lesson 6. "Ye cannot serve God and Mammon" (Matt. 6:24). Objective: To emphasize that the allurements of the world do not provide lasting happiness. Lesson 7. "I will not leave you comfortless" (John 14:18). Objective: To point out that we are not left comfortless because of our sure knowledge, through Christ's teachings and the Holy Ghost, of the resurrection. Lesson 8. "Ye are the light of the world" (Matt. 5:14). Objective: To emphasize that where much is given much is expected. Lesson 1—"Ye Shall Do the Work Which Ye See Me Do" Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, October 5, 1948
Objective: To present these words in the homes visited as the "grand key words" of Relief Society and to point out that the objective has never changed. HE Savior in his earthly ministry ever strove to link the spiritual with the temporal. He taught that life on earth had its counterpart in heaven, that, in fact, a "heaven on earth" was the nearest example we LESSON DEPARTMENT could have of the joys in the perfect life beyond. It was through this teaching that he impressed his followers with the need of belief on him and the works that he did. At the ninth meeting of Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith declared, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand key words for the Society to act upon."
From that day, in 1842, to the present time, those grand key words have served to guide the society along its path and motivate Relief Society members to perform the work done by the Master.
When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events. The blind need not be restored to sight, the deaf to hear, nor even the 479 dead to walk again. How then may we do the works which he did? The answer is to be found in reading, and making our own, a very few words about Jesus which nevertheless speak volumes: "who went about doing good" (Acts 10:38). By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other. The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love.
These we can perform.