[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Jennings]

Work Tleeting—Sewing Value of Acquiring Make-over Skills; Make-over Possibilities (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Jean Ridges Jennings Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 AKING over old and outmoded clothing into new and useful articles is a stimulating and challenging experience. For women in families with a limited income this ability to make full use of every piece of clothing can be as helpful to the family budget as actually earning extra money. As a general rule an article of clothing is not made over into something else until it is no longer useful in its original form. One must learn to decide whether or not the article is more valuable as it is or as it may be converted. Make-overs cover an almost unlimited field, but in most cases their use is employed when a garment is to be worn by another person. This is not always the case, however, since one can re-use her own clothes by ingenious planning. A coat may be made over into a suit, dress, skirt, or even a different style of coat for a woman. It may also be made over into any of these same items for a young gitl or a child. In the latter case one must be careful that the fabric and color are suited to the individual for whom the garment is being made. In order to provide an opportunity for the sisters of the wards to view the year's accomplishments in the sewing program, no lesson is provided for the month of May. Space does not permit a listing of all the make-over possibilities for a family, but the ensuing lessons will include more details for their use in home sewing. The titles of the lessons for 1948- 49 are as follows: Lesson 1. Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths Lesson 2. Remodeling Dresses An afternoon dress can be made over into a more up-to-date style for a new garment. Skirts and blouses can also frequently be fashioned from dresses that can no longer serve as they are.
Lesson 3. Making Women's Wear from Men's Wear A man's suit, coat, or raincoat can be made over into garments for a woman or for one of the children if the color and material are suitable.
Lesson 4. Salvage from Shirts Men's shirts can be made over into boys' shirts; into girls' blouses; into aprons and children's play clothes; or even into women's blouses. Here again one must be careful to be sure that colors and fabric designs are appropriate to the wearer.
Lesson 5. Outmoded Formals Old formals may be re-used for negligees, underwear, blouses, or afternoon dresses, depending on the type of fabtic in the original garment. They can even be used for clever touches in making bedroom furnishings.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 6. Blouses and Slips Slips, negligees, and nightgowns may be pressed into service for making blouses, vestees, underclothing, or a variety of dainty articles for wee tots. House dresses, if not too badly worn or faded, can be used for aprons or children's play clothes. 487
Lesson 7. Using Your Odds and Ends Old shower curtains can be used for dish covers for the ice box, mixing bowl covers, small rain capes, or cases for linens to keep out dust and moths when storing them.
Lesson 1—Suggestions on Changing Skirt Lengths Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, October 12, 1948 ALMOsT every woman or child sooner or later comes up against the problem of altering or lengthening skirts. At the present time when styles are undergoing a radical change and skirts are all longer than a year or two ago, most of us are faced with the necessity of finding ways to extend our skirts. Not many women can afford to discard clothes just because they are not in the height of fashion. But much can be done to modernize clothes and give them the so-called "new look."
There are many ways to make your skirts longer. Of first importance, though, is to choose the most suitable way for your particular need.
Your plaid wool sports skirt would look foolish with an eyelet pantie ruffle added to its tailored lines. Or if you are as wide now as you care to be, you certainly won't set a series of contrasting bands in your skirt. So choose your lengthening strategy with care for both fabric and figure. For a teen-ager who would wear her school skirt a few more months if it were a little longer, try crocheting a wool band at the bottom. If the skirt is cotton, spun rayon Or linen, the band should be done in the mercerized crochet cotton.
When you add length to a dress in crochet, you should add a touch of the same trimming around the neck or sleeves. In this way the crocheting will seem to be a planned decoration for the outfit, not merely a makeshift.
When crocheting or knitting is used as a strip it must always be pressed or blocked into shape to give it a finished look.
There are skirts for which an eyelet embroidered ruffle is a perfect and eye-catching finish, particularly full "dirndles," or full gored types.
This year when petticoats are so right, you will find this method of lengthening lifts last year's skirt to the height of this year's style. The ruffle can either be on a petticoat or attached to the skirt itself. 'Tack the eyelet ruffle to the skirt by hand. A folded bias band of plaid taffeta would be a perfect lengthener for a plain dark crepe dress.
Unify the costume by carrying the same trimming as bands for the neck and sleeves.
Another trick is a series of bands inserted in a skirt. Two or three bands may be used.
Bands of graduated widths are more interesting than bands of the same width. If your dress is short in the waist, you can insert a new waistband of a 488 contrasting material. A dress which has a peplum can be lengthened by inserting a piece of material under the peplum where the piecing will not show. A skirt which has a hem can be faced.
This is the simplest of all ways to add length. If the skirt has already been faced, you can still make the skirt longer by adding a band of self matched, or contrasting material to the underside of the facing.
When finished, it makes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 the original hemline appear to be a wide tuck taken just above the hemline for decoration. The band should be doubled or faced and can be stitched to the facing of the original hem. Do not stitch the band to the skirt itself. No matter what material or method you choose for lengthening your clothes, be certain to select a material and a style of trimming suitable to the outfit. ——— Swoual Science—Latter-day Saint Political Thought Elder G. Homer Durham Preview of Lessons for 1948-49 THROUGHOUT the world a struggle is taking place for men's minds, to influence their political beliefs as a stepping stone to new and uncharted forms of government.