[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Soups Foreign and Mills]

— Soups—Foreign and Domestic Sara Mills NY woman who has a particle of pride in her cooking should have a specialty which she serves at every opportunity. I once knew a fair, sweet-tempered woman whose specialty was cream puffs with caramel sauce. Her friends, including me, would go many unnecessary miles merely hoping that cream puffs would be waiting. I'm as fond of cream puffs as the next one, but somehow I never make them. I wait until they are given me. Soup, as I may have hinted before, is my specialty. The reason for this I have never probed. The recipes given here I have collected and developed through many years.
Onion soup, French of course, heads the list, perhaps because it is the first good soup I ever learned to make. The recipe serves four. FreNcH ONION Soup 1 lb.
Lean beef chopped water to make 11/2 quarts of stock 4 red onions, sliced 1 tbs. Butter 2 slices toast, grated Parmesan cheese or Swiss cheese to cover toast salt and pepper SOUPS—FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC Brown one half of the chopped lean beef in sizzling fat. Meanwhile, soak the other half of the lean meat in cold water for one half hour.
Combine the meats, add salt and pepper, and simmer for about six hours.
Slice the onions crosswise and fry gently in butter until they are a delicate golden brown. Add the onions to the soup stock and boil for 45 minutes. Now pour the soup into a large oven-proof bowl or casserole.
Cover the slices of toast (or croutons, if you prefer) generously with the grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese, slide them gently onto the soup, and bake the soup in the oven for ten minutes. Do this just before serving. It is a soup beloved by men and good enough for the most special occasion.
Another palate-tickling onion soup is made from chicken stock.
Brown the onions (one to a person), as in the previous recipe, then add a tablespoon of flour and mix well. Add the chicken stock, and cook as before. Don't forget the toast and cheese. For a change, use thick slices of toasted French bread. Lentil Soup This is another importation, hearty and vitamin-filled, that can be used as a one-dish luncheon or dinner, an after-the-game supper, or a Sunday night supper when there is a crowd and no one wants to waste time in the kitchen.
Serve it with brown bread and butter. Add a green salad and apple pie, and you have a feast. The dish serves ten. 1 lb. lentils, soaked in water overnight 1 large onion 2 carrots, diced 2 outer stalks of celery, diced 2 tbs. butter 4 slices bacon, diced 2 tbs. flour 4 cans consomme 2 quarts water 1 ham bone 2-3 medium-sized potatoes 10 boiled, sliced frankfurters a few drops Worcestershire sauce salt and pepper lemon slices for serving chopped parsley Soak the lentils in water overnight.
About two hours before serving-time, dice the vegetables and simmer them in the bacon fat and butter, along with the diced bacon. Do this in a large soup kettle.
Next add the lentils and the 2 tablespoons flour.
Stir well, and add the consomme, water, and ham bone.
Cover and cook slowly for an hour. Next, add the diced potatoes and cook for one half hour.
Remove the ham bone, cut the lean ham in pieces, and return to the soup, along with the frankfurters, the drops of sauce, and the chopped parsley. Let simmer for a few minutes be-fore serving.
Place a thin slice of lemon on top of each serving. Taste, and add the necessary salt and pepper.
Cream of Spinach Soup 2 4 cups chopped spinach cup finely chopped onion cup finely diced carrot cups milk salt and pepper tsp. mace cup whipped cream handful of spinach heart leaves Place the spinach, onions, and carrots in the top of a double boiler, along with 1 cup of milk.
Cook covered until the vegetables are tender, then press them through a sieve. Add the 3 remaining cups of milk, salt, pepper, and mace.
Simmer ten to fifteen minutes, then fold in the whipped cream.
Garnish the servings with the spinach heart leaves, chopped.
Serves six to eight persons. One last word on soup making: use your leftovers, leftover bones — you pay plenty for them — leftover vegetables, left-over vegetable juices.
Cook the bones with any leftover meat in water, salt and pepper, and a handful of vegetables — peas, green beans, carrots, celery, parsley, green squash, etc., with a few herbs.
Strain the stock, reheat it with tomato juice, and serve it with crackers or croutons.
Sometimes steal a little piece of lean meat from your pot roast or stew and simmer it for several hours with your leftovers. At our house we call it supper broth, and. the children love it.