[Vol35 | July 1948 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Durham]

Questions of political theory are the questions of the hour. "'Latter-day Saint Political Thought" has therefore been selected as social science lesson material for the next two years.
Seven lessons during 1948- 49 will be devoted to certain main currents. The second year will offer a detailed analysis of the Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General (Doctrine and Covenants, section 134), its application, and general world significance, The objective of these lessons is to acquaint and familiarize the women of the Church with some fundamental issues of modern political thought, and to examine pertinent answers thereto as found in the literature and doctrines of the restoration; and thus aid them in teaching their children the meaning and value of free agency and liberty. Men everywhere search for adequate answers to these questions. Currently, Communism threatens to engulf Christian civilization.
What contribution does Latter-day Saint thought make to modern man's search for sound political theory? In this quest, class leaders and members will have occasion and stimulus to re-examine modern scripture as well as the relevant material in the entire stream of literature of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 'In addition to the standard works, the following useful references are suggested: SmiTH, JosePpH FieLpinc: The Progress of Man, Deseret Book Co., 1936, an entire book dedicated to the interpretation of political history in the light of gospel principles. It is one of the few systematic treatises of this type found in our literature. WivTsoE, Joun A: Man and the Dragon, Bookcraft, 1945, especially part 1, is another recent work dealing with war, peace, social and economic issues.
Complete chapters of basic source material LESSON DEPARTMENT will also be found (usually in a chapter entitled "Political Government' or similar name) in each of the following: Discourses of Brigham Young (Selected and arranged by John A. Widtsoe), Deseret Book Company. The Gospel Kingdom (Selections from the Writings and Discourses of President John Taylor, compiled by G. Homer Durham) Bookcraft. The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff (Selected and Arranged by G. Homer Durham), Bookcraft. Gospel Doctrine (Selections from the Sermons and Writings of President Joseph F. Smith), Deseret Book Company. Gospel Standards (Selections from the sermons and writings of President Heber J. Grant, compiled by G. Homer Durham).
Published by The Improvement Era. The political utterances of Joseph Smith are classified and explained in DurnaM, G. Homer: Joseph Smith: Prophet-Statesman, Bookcraft, 1944.
They are likewise to be found in Smit, Joseru Fievpinc, The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Deseret News, 1938, with the exception of a few public documents.
Teachers will find the current output of Church books, magazines, and conference reports invaluable sources for lesson enrichment. In addition, specific suggestions are carried in each lesson, together with questions for general discussion. If the claim that "the world's problems" can be solved by reference to gospel principles is to be realized, these lessons and materials have deep meaning. In these lessons the term State is commonly used to indicate an independent sovereign state (nation). Note: a lesson is outlined for Tuesday, February 22, 1949 since some Relief Societies hold their meetings on days other than Tuesday. It is suggested that Relief Societies which meet on Tuesday present the February 22 social science lesson on March 22 and the March 22 lesson on the fifth Tuesday, March 29, or combine the 489
February and March social science lessons and present them together on March 22. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 1. The Meaning and Importance of Political Doctrines Objective: To point out the modern tendencies in political thought to ignore spiritual resources and to seek a cure-all through unlimited government. Lesson 2. Some Political Doctrines of the Book of Mormon Objective: To learn, from a study of political doctrines expressed in the Book of Mormon, that a government to be good must be composed of good people. Lesson 3. Political Ideas Advocated by the Prophet Joseph Smith Objective: To better appreciate the political doctrines advanced by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Lesson 4. "The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" Objective: To study section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants as the belief of Latter-day Saints in regard to earthly governments and laws in general. Lesson 5. Main Currents in Latterday Saint Political Thought as Revealed in Discourse and Literature Objective: To appreciate the contributions to political thought voiced by some of the early Church leaders. Lesson 6. Contemporary Domestic Problems Objective: To recognize the limitations of the State in its ability to solve problems. Lesson 7. International Strife and the Quest for Peace Objective: To appreciate the part some Latter-day Saints have taken in recent political activities and the obligation resting on Latter-day Saints to teach their children the doctrines of free agency and liberty in harmony with Latter-day Saint knowledge. 
 —JULY 1948
Lesson 1-The Meaning and Importance of Political Doctrines Elder G. Homer Durham For Tuesday, October 26, 1948 EVAN JENSEN THE watchword of traffic safety is courtesy." This slogan appeared at the crossing of a busy intersection recently. The thought behind it appears trite at first. On closer examination we see the modem social problem in a nutshell. Man's material development has outrun his spiritual. Take the example of traffic, which kills and maims someone every minute. How do we try to solve this problem? Largely by car-inspections, superdivided highways, and other materialistic means. This is why the sign, "The watchword of traffic safety is courtesy," caught my eye. We must mobilize our spiritual resources! Which would you rather face, headon, in oncoming traffic, a driver in a jolopy, with courtesy extending from him to you; or, a discourteous, ribald person in a thirty-ton truckObjective: To point out the moder tendencies in political thought to ignore spiritual resources and to seek a cure-all through unl imited government. And-trailer engineering marvel? Or vice-versa? If safety and courtesy are desired on the highway, what about courtesy in the use of battleships and bombs? Predominance of the Material Over the Spiritual Just as the modem approach to most problems emphasizes materiality over the spiritual resources of man, so does the modern State and its government exemplify a similar triumph. In case of conflict between two nations the questions usually asked are (1) What are their resources, especially, coal, iron, and petroleum? (2) What is their industrial production and capacity? (3) What is their population and birthrate? Resort is then made to force. The spiritual qualities of the two peoples concerned, their capacity at tolerance, forbearance, and compromise are rarely considered or utilized. Rather they are exploited, devilishly, in support of the material factors in the contest. Mankind's spiritual and material needs cannot be separated. But the emphasis given these aspects of human living should definitely subordinate the material to spiritual ends by spiritually motivated means, and not in reverse order.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Increase in Material Functions of Government Today the material functions of modern government outstrip all others. Men have come to rely more on the State for ''salvation/' bread, security from hunger, disease, cold, atomic bombs, and the effects of their own indiscretions, than on any other thing. Accordingly, men search for adequate doctrines both to guide the State and to judge its operations as ''the way out." These doctrines, more and more, reflect a totalitarian approach; namely, that the effective solution lies through governmental action, therefore all other possible means must be subordinated, if not absorbed, by the State. What is the nature of the State? What are its limitations? What is the sphere of effective State action? How should governments be run and controlled? This is the age of politics and political problems. What contribution does Latter-day Saint thought make in answer to these questions? What is the gospel, viewed in relation to these problems, and what are the gospel applications? Ist here a "true" or better way of running governments as there is a "true" way of baptism and administering the sacrament of the Lord's supper? Or is the effective reach of the gospel confined to a few simple ordinances and individualistic beliefs having no connection with the War Assets Administration, British loans, the Politburo*, or revolution in Indonesia? A consideration of these and allied subjects will form the basis for this year's course of study Contributions of the Pasts From the Greek world we derive one of the great political ideas of all time, limited government, meaning that government should he confined to set limits in order that power (which tends to be arbitrary) can he controlled for man’s benefit. The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the world's greatest fulfillment oft his idea. It confines government to certain channels, and forbids it to enter others (for example, those freedoms protected by the Bill of Rights). Moreover, taught Aristotle, even limited power should be divided, with checks and balances— "mixed government"— in order to achieve political stability. Otherwise men are subordinated to the will of their rulers with the result that men serve the State rather than the State serving man. The President of the United States, for example, must have authorization from Congress in the form of a law, before, normally, he can act. Then the courts may review any executive procedure thereunder. Expounded first by Aristotle, these general ideas are the foundation of constitution-making and constitutional government. The Roman world, though absolutist, nevertheless carried through an idea which moderns speak of as "the rule of law," namely, that State action must conform to law. Too often among the Romans, law could be the whim of the emperor. The inner executive committee Or controlling body of the Russian Communist Party, and 'the bureau of foreign Communist Propaganda, 492
But by English times, the Greek and Roman doctrines had merged to recognize that good law, while conforming to natural or divine principles, must yet be agreed upon— in advance —by the people. Thus, twin ideas, limited government and government by consent of the governed, became the modern inheritance.
Both are expressed in the Constitution of the United States. The Crisis in Recent Political Thought As inventions have multiplied, men, particularly since about 1870, have turned to the State to regulate, control, and now—plan the results accruing from the concentration of population in big cities and other revolutionary changes.
Using the doctrine of "government by consent," the people have gained control of their governments.
Then they have asked (spurred on, many times, by scheming men) their governments to do this, then that, then the other thing, until the National Government of the United States alone has been looked to, not only by most Americans, but by peoples in Europe and Asia, as the means of solving all problems. So, State functions have increased enormously, not to mention the influence of socialistic doctrines.
What has happened to "limited government'? It appears to have become instead, by means of man's resorting to the State, a doctrine of unlimited or total government! Can we have unlimited government and preserve the human tights, so precious to the advocates down the centuries, of limited government?
Human experience teaches us differently.
This is the crisis of modern political thought. The Need for Nurturing Spiritual Attitudes Within this crisis congregate the problems of modern society, because our many social institutions have beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1948 come so enmeshed in the machinery of the State that any break-up of government threatens to dissolve society. To alleviate this situation there is powerful need for spiritual attitudes: courtesy, kindliness, forbearance, tolerance, mutual understanding, faith in God and in.
Each other.
Such social institutions as the family, business corporations, labor unions, professional societies, farm bureaus, trade associations have—in the spirit of the times— come to rely more and more on government to settle and support their affairs.
Juvenile delinquency, adult delinquency, divorce, broken homes, industrial strife—all too often we seek remedies through passing laws, setting up agencies and bureaus, when what is also needed is a nurturing of man's fundamental religious nature.
Divorce involves two holy beings, a man and a woman. The juvenile delinquent, the striking miner, the recalcitrant employer, all are children of God, with deep wellsprings of spiritual power.
What is being done to keep this power alive and functioning? If the forces of materialism through the unlimited State come to dominate our lives completely, what forces can then be free to operate in the effort to fulfill the great spiritual needs of men? The State may try, often in a totalitarian way, as in Hitler's Germany. But man is of such diverse outlook that spiritual freedom is perhaps his most precious freedom. So again, here is the crisis of modern politics and of modern thought.
What paths lead from this dilemma?
This is the approach we seek.
Questions for Discussion 1.
What is meant by "limited government"?
LESSON DEPARTMENT 2.
Does the doctrine of "limited government" imply that there are limits on "freedom" as well as on government? For example: Can society tolerate absolute freedom? Can a person, OF group, do anything he pleases or must persons and groups accept certain responsibilities? 3. A main problem of government is to maintain the balance between freedom and authority.
What are some of the limitations on personal freedom that might be considered desirable? 493 4.
What are some possible limitations on personal freedom that might be considered undesirable? 5.
What important human problems can you think of that governments must, of necessity and with satisfaction, solve? 6. Can you think of some human problems that cannot effectively be solved by governmental action? 7. How does governmental action differ from other forms of organized human activity?