[Vol14 | October 1927 | Sequence: 14d | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV - Social Service - Challenge of Childhood (Conclusion)]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December ) CHALLENGE OF CHILDHOOD (Conclusion) This lesson is the concluding one of the series based on the text "The Challenge of Childhood." Perhaps a brief glance back at this point may help to clarify and crystallize some of the material presented during the study of the past two years. The approach to the problems of childhood has been made through case studies. A child who has been found lying to his parents, or one who has been playing truant from school, or 
 one found stealing pennies from his friends, or one who was failing at school, or still another who was miserable and unhappy, have been presented by the author of the text in considerable detail. Although the child studied may have presented a concrete problem, the study of the problem, whether lying, stealing, or weeping, was not at all limited to the obvious behavior difficulty. The study was never of the behavior symptom, but always of the elements of child life that explain his behavior. At the end of this series, therefore, no list of rules of how to manage the troublesome child can be made. The questions that parents would like to have answered with a simple formula defy any such simple explanation. There is no answer to the question, "What should I do with Mary when she will not eat her dinner?" or, 'What should be done with a child who lies?" or, "Is locking a child in a closet for ten minutes good punishment?" There is, of course, no answer to such questions. There are no sound generalizations that can be made about the type of treatment that children should receive. The manifestations of some difficulty a child has, is not the problem. The problem is the child. The approach to the problem, then, is the one made by the author—a complete study of the child. This complete study is not simple. It is as complex as the various factors that make up an individual. If some phase of the individual's component parts is not functioning in harmony with other factors of its make-up, there is discord. The discord can be corrected only by an adjustment of the whole delicate human instrument. From the various analysis of the children who presented some outward disturbance it has become increasingly apparent that an individual is a complex mechanism. He is first something physical and mental, having within him the powers and the limitations of his many forbears. At birth he may be endowed with traits and abilities which if placed in a certain set of circumstances will lead him to the world's high places. But, at birth, another child may enter the world with a physical or mental limitation that will make growth impossible. It is difficult to comprehend the vast differences of natural endowment that are a part of a child's equipment at birth, and the meaning and justice of these differences are altogether obscure. But the mental and physical development is not altogether determined at birth. The environment, or social setting, into which a person is born has much to do with controlling and modifying his growth. A child: who is normal at birth may later be physically handicapped by accident or illness, or may be the victim of mental disease such as enciphalitis and be left almost helpless. Also more subtle influences in his environment, such as his economic standing, the character of his home, the neighborhood and the community, may affect his development. Whether a child's strength and alertness are turned into channels of usefulness or into paths of unwholesome activities are determined by the inter-play of the ney social forces which make up his environment. But even mental and physical fitness and an apparently wholesome environment do not always lead the child to his best expression and development. Normal children from excellen: homes often have difficulties. The explanation of this phenomenon has been the real subject of the text. Individuals, despite their general similarities, are so different and so differently timed and tuned, that no particular environment or setting can be considered satisfactory for any child. The same setting may affect two persons in exactly opposite ways. The same home may bring peace and security and avenues for expression to one child, and unhappiness and a feeling of frustration to another. A home, a school, or community—all of which may have approved high standards—may not be the setting in which a particular child can find opportunities for happiness and growth. The environment, then, which makes happy, normal, child development possible is one that gives a child opportunity to develop his powers. If the child feels thwarted, inferior, or develops attitudes of jealousy, envy or distrust, his feelings may find expression in some form of undesirable behavior. The term used for this failure of the individual to adjust to his environment is conflict. The hopes and plans of the individual and the setting in which he is placed, may have in the situation many elements of conflicting desires. The child wants to please his parents and family, but he may have no talent to play the violin or no ability to study higher mathematics. If his parents make him feel it is their wish for him to be a musician or successful at college the child has many emotional upsets and conflicts. On the other hand, the father may wish to have the son enter the family business, when the son may wish to be a violinist or perhaps a mathematician. In child life, similar conflicting situations arise, largely because of parents ideas of having children conform to their adult views. The emotional pleasure of finishing a fairy tale may eliminate a conflict that would arise if the child must put his book away at an exact moment of the clock. Emotional problems, growing out of conflicts between that different and sensitive mechanism called an individual, and the environment and setting in which he is placed in life, must be met by everyone. The whole race has unrealized dreams and visions and hopes. But the danger of emotional upset is not in having high hopes, but in having no opportunity to be even a small wav on the path to the world of hopes. Perhaps the aspirations are 
 too high, and they must be transposed to a. Different level. Or perhaps the opportunities for achievement are too limited and a special setting should be provided. Our author quotes E. H. Southard as he summarized his ideas regarding the fundamentals of individual conduct in the sentence: "What a man wills to do, modified by what he can't do, is what he ought to do." Parent's obligations and responsibilities are great, at this period in the history of the world. Many standards are being questioned, and much more independence of thought is expressed by the young people of today. Such things as more general college education, women entering employment and general freedom in the matter of selecting work, friends and types of recreation challenge the parents guidance. Parents certainly are charged with a responsibility to guide the lives of their children. On the other hand parents realize that the severe disciplines and forced submission to adult wishes and standards may bring about open revolt or serious emotional upsets. Perhaps a parent's best method of meeting his responsibility is to study and appreciate the general principles of child development, and have a deep desire that his children may learn something of the art of living. Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Conclusion, pages 295- 302, Dr. Ira S. Wile. Questions and Problems 1. Why can no generalizations be made about how to treat a child problem such as lying? 2. What must be known about a child to understand his conduct? 3. What limitations may a child have at birth? 4. How can environment limit a child's development? 5. How does conflict between the person and his environment affect him? 6. What adjustments might be made to such conflicts? 7. How do parents sometimes cause such conflicts? 8. In what way can parents help children to learn the art of living?