[WomansExponent | Vol19 | 1890 | July | Issue: 4 | Title: TUNE, STAR-SPANGLED BANNER. | Author: Unknown]

	TUNE, STAR-SPANGLED BANNER.

Where the mountains eternal, lift up to the sun
Their summits snow-crowned and unchanging forever,
Where the streams leaping forth to the valleys below
Bring harvest and joy from the Father and Giver;
There’s a light shining forth there’s a voice we can hear,
Through the dark o’er the earth, oh how sweet and how
	clear;
'Tis the spirit of God and where’er they may roam,
He is gathering the pure to our own mountain home.

Not for riches of earth would we barter away
The title of Saint and the joy of our mission.
Though the world may oppose, all our trust is in Him
Who hath lighted our souls by each glorious vision.
Let the truths we have heard in the Temples' still peace
Fly with wings of a bird to each spirit’s release;
'Tis the voice of our God and where'er they may roam
He is calling the pure to our own mountain home.

[column 2]

Come ye then to the fountain of truth and of love
All ye noble and great, all ye suff'ring and lowly.
Lo! thy King draweth near and the faithful shall be
Gathered in to the feast and be blessed and holy.
Lo! thy steps have been late, He hath called ye so long,
Come, thy joy will be great, come and join the glad song
O’er the weary, wide world, o’er the waters wild foam,
He is gathering the pure to our own mountain home.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
July 5, 1890.

	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne, then came the address of welcome by
the president Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball.

Gentlemen and Ladies:
	I have the pleasure in behalf of the asso-
ciation who have arranged this entertainment,
to extend to you kindly greetings and a cor-
dial welcome. 
	The object in gathering you under these
beautiful vines and flowering trees is to show
you that suffragists’ bow at friendship’s call,
and pay homage at the shrine of love, purity
and beauty.
	This being our introductory fete, we ask our
friends to help make it enjoyable to all.
	A short programme will be rendered, after
which, the tables the platform and the
grounds will be subject to the tender mercies
of our guests.

	After some excellent music by the band,
Mrs. Emily S. Richards delivered an elo-
quent address in a clear voice and most happy
manner.

