[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: HYGIENIC COOKERY. | Author: Unknown]

HYGIENIC COOKERY.
	In the art of preparing food in a whole-
some, nutritious manner, a thorough practical
knowledge of this very useful art ought to
form a part of the education of every young
woman, whatever her station in life. No
position in life is more responsible than
that of the person who arranges the bills of
fare and selects the food for the household,
and what higher mission can one conceive
than to intelligently prepare the wherewithal
to make shoulders strong to bear life’s bur-
dens, and heads clear to solve its intricate
problems. What worthier work than to
help the building up of the bodies into pure
temples fit for guests of noble thoughts
and high purposes. Bread has been
proverbially styled “the staff of life.” In
nearly all ancient languages the word bread
signifies all, indicating that the bread of
earlier periods was in truth what it should
be, at the present time, a staff upon which
all the functions of life might with safety
depend. Notwithstanding the important
part bread is designed to play in the economy
of life, it would be hardly possible to men-
tion another article of food which falls so far
below the standard, either through the
manner of its preparation or the material
used. Were the tables of our land supplied
with good nutritious bread there would be
less desire for cake and other indigestible
articles, which under the present system of
cooking are allowed to compensate for the
inferior quality and preparation of more
wholesome food.
	What is termed white flour has a large
part of the nutritive properties of the grain
left out and unless the deficiency is made
up by other food, the use of bread made
from such material will leave the most vital
tissues of the body poorly n[-]urished and tends
to produce innumerable bad results. People
who eat bread made from fine white flour,
naturally crave the food elements which
have been eliminated from the wheat and
are thus led to an excessive consumption of
meat and other stimulating articles of diet.
The superiority of bread made from entire
wheat or unbolted meal has been attested
by many notable examples in history. In
England under the administration of Wm.
Pitt, there was for several years a scarcity
of wheat, so that to make it last longer, a law
was passed by Parliament that the army
should be supplied with bread made from
unbolted flour. It caused much dissatis-
faction among the men, but nevertheless
the health of the army improved so greatly
as to be a subject of surprise. The officers
and physicians publicly declared the soldiers
had never been so robust and healthy. Ac-
cording to analysis, whole wheat bread con-
tains 60 per cent more of the phosphates or
bone-making material than does meat, and
200 per cent more gluten than white bread.
To white flour may be attributed the early
decay of teeth. If children are to have


[Column 1]
good teeth, bone and muscles they must be
fed on food which contains an adequate sup-
ply of nourishment for their structure. To-
day our children are fed largely upon bread,
cakes, piecrust and puddings, made from
the finest white superfine flour, which can
be ground or rolled. A careful analysis of
the wheat shows that immediately beneath
the hull lies the dark portion of the kernel,
which is hard, firm and very difficult to
grind or roll into fine flour and more or less
of it is quite sure to remain in contact with
the bean, and in bolting the rest of it is
mostly separated from the fine flour. The
dark portion thus disposed of contains in
excess the very substances required, to
nourish the teeth, bones, muscles and brain.
Namely, the gluten and phosphates, the
central or white portion of the grain con-
tains an excess of starch, which is easily
pulverized, and by bolting gives the super-
fine white flour. A large proportion of
this white flour is starch, while it is useful
in supplying wheat and fat making ma-
terial when taken in its natural condition as
it exists in the grain it will not supply ani-
mal life for any great length of time, con-
sequently white flour will keep in barrels
for a long time without being disturbed by
insects, where as the unbolted meal will
not keep for any great length of time with-
out becoming unpleasant to the taste.
	It has been demonstrated by experiment,
that animals fed exclusively upon the finest
superfine flour died in a few weeks while
those fed upon unbolted flour thrived. Im-
perfect development of the bones, muscles,
teeth, brain and nerves is the inevitable re-
sult which follow, if children are fed largely
on white flour, cooked in any form, and
deformity, dyspepsia and debility in after
life. It is difficult to imagine the immense
harm to the present and rising generation,
which is being done by the use of white
flour. The Israelites made unleavened bread
of grains pounded on smooth stones, mixed
with pure water and thoroughly kneaded
and baked. Many of the inhabitants of the
earth today eat unleavened bread. The
Scotch and Irish make it from barley and
oats, the Swedes from rye, and the Mexi-
cans from corn. It is also used among the
Americans to a limited extent. It is made
of whole wheat flour and water, well beaten
and baked in hot iron gem pans; it is very
palatable and wholesome. We should in-
troduce bread made from whole wheat flour
into our homes. It must not be allowed to
ferment too much as the gases escape, and
render the loaf sodden, and there will also be
a great loss in nutritive value, as well, as
natural sweetness. It should also be baked
with great care, more time should be al-
lowed than with white bread. Mushes are
also very wholesome, they must be cooked
well, a double boiler is a necessity in their
preparation, from two to five hours should
be allowed them.
	Fruit should compose a large part of our
diet. Grapes, apples, peaches and a great
many of our excellent fruits are more nutri-
tious in their natural condition, they should
be thoroughly matured but not over ripe as
they are liable to ferment and decompose in
the digestive tract. It should be rejected if
slightly decayed as the juices of fruit circu-
late through its tissues in much the same
manner as the blood circulates through ani-
mal tissues, though not so rapidly and freel[--]
The circulation is sufficient however, to
convey to all the parts, the products of de-
composition when only a small portion has

[Column 2]
undergone decay. Fruit should be cooked
by stewing as hard boiling will destroy the
fine flavor, especially of berries. The uten-
sils for cooking should be porcelain lined
or granite ware, if cooked in tin it is liable
to lose much of its fine flavor, there is also
danger of the acids of the fruit acting upon
the metal and forming a poisonous com-
pound. Tin covers should be avoided as
the steam is liable to condense and ruu
down into the kettle and thus discolor the
contents. Much of our fruit can be bottled
fresh and also dried for winter use, sugar
should be used sparingly, perserves and
jellies should not be eaten as their nutritive
properties are gone.
	Condiments such as pepper, mustard, vin-
egar, etc., are very injurious, as they act
directly upon the nervous system not as
nourishment but as stimulants and irritants,
causing for the time being, undue activity
and exhilaration to be followed by corres-
ponding depression. They also cause an
unnatural condition of the functions of the
stomach and the reaction is partial paralysis.
Thus the thin membranes and tissues of the
digestive organs are worn out prematurely
and disease follows. A taste for these ar-
ticles is artificial and can be overcome by a
strong will power on the part of the indul-
ger. Vegetables are also wholesome but
should be cooked properly. They should
be perfectly tender but not overdone; they
should be put into boiling water, if they are
to be boiled and not allowed to boil too hard
or stop boiling before well done. They
like fruit should be well covered.
	Steaming or baking is preferable for most
vegetables, because their fine flavors are
more easily retained and their food value
suffers less diminution; particularly is
this true of our potato. Potatoes if baked,
should be pressed open immediately and
allow the steam to escape. This will pre-
vent their becoming soggy, the oven must
not be too slow as this causes the skin to
become hardened and much of the nutrition
wasted. Vegetables and fruit should not
be partaken of at the same meal by one
with a delicate stomach. Soups made of
vegetables are very nutritious and palatable
especially so of tomatoes. Cream is an ex-
cellent flavoring for soups, as well as for
our grains and fruits. Cream and good
rich milk are wholesome and very nutritious
and much easier of digestion than when
made into butter. Fried things are very
unwholesome and should be avoided by the
most healthful stomachs. We should eat
pure food that our digestive organs may be
in a healthy condition. They will then
give us physical health and our mental
depends upon our physical. We should be
very regular in our habits especially so in
eating. Our stomach should be allowed to
rest between meals and should not be dis-
turbed by ever so little, as digestion is thus
hindered. Food should be well masticated,
our teeth will perform this very important
office if time be given them.
	Stimulants such as tea, coffee, chocolate,
tobacco and strong drink are not good for
man as we learn from the revelation on the
Word of Wisdom, it also says in the same
revelation that flesh is only for the use of
man in excessive hunger.	J. S. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE Annual Convention of the Utah W.
S. A. will be held in this city, on Monday,
Oct. 7, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. in the 14th,
Ward Assembly Hall.—E. B. WELLS,
President, NELLIE LITTLE, Secretary.


