[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
			[Continued.]
	Governor West:	Ladies and Gentlemen:
—I am sure it is a matter of congrat-
ulation to you to hear the remarks that
were made by Miss Anthony on the pro-
gress of the cause which you have so near
at heart. I sincerely believe in the near
future the Woman’s Suffrage Union will
prevail all over the United States. The
movement in the past has had a hard and
serious time and it has been up hill work all
the time and obstructions have been in the
way, they were difficult to overcome, but I
believe now all those difficulties have been
overcome and its road will be smooth and
easy. And it is smooth and easy because
of the noble, earnest, sincere, devoted and
self-sacrificing women like Miss Anthony
and her co-workers. Now I have the
pleasure of presenting to you one of the
most earnest and illustrious co-workers
with Miss Anthony in urging this noble
work, The Rev. Dr. Anna Shaw. (Ap-
plause).
	REMARKS BY REV. ANNA SHAW.
	Ladies and Gentlemen:—I only feel very
humble after Miss Anthony has been speak-
ing, for it must seem so grand to say forty-
eight years ago we did so and so. (Laugh-
ter.) It makes one feel so grand, so mag-
nificent. Now I cannot say that I did very
much forty-eight years ago, nor fifty years
ago, but forty-seven years ago I began to
work for suffrage as soon as I began to
breathe, and with the beginning of my
breathing began my energy and my toil in
this direction, I have always rebelled ever
since, I could clinch my little fist as a
baby and when I toddled about as a child,
at the restrictions that were eternally put
about girls and women. And from the
time I can first remember I was called a
Tom-boy and if it was so delightful to be a
Tom-boy, what must it be to be a boy.
(Laughter.) And from the very beginning
it was always thought there was something
the matter with my head, and you cannot
make my father believe that there is not
something the matter with it now. My
father believed that girls ought to be born
with a burning desire to wash dishes; if
not, there was something the matter with
their heads. As I never had the burning
desire to wash dishes but always longed to
chop wood, my father never knew where to
put me, he knew his head was all right
and he didn’t learn to wash dishes he knew
mother’s head was all right but they have
never been able to get me right. I was al-
ways on the wrong side of the fence, I was
always found just where the women were
not expected to be, and when I became a
a young woman I determined to preach the
Gospel. My father said one day, “we all
knew that you would do something, and
you have done it,’’ and so I did it. (Laugh-
ter.)
	After you have struggled with poverty
and social ostracism and discouragement,
and disappointment in the hearts of your
friends and especially your own people, it
is very hard to have them come up and
say when you have succeeded, “If we had not
helped you it would have been a hard time
for you.” 	(Laughter).  It always makes


[Column 1]
one feel so delightful. So the days have
gone by until in recent years I met Miss
Anthony and since that hour I have been
one of Miss Anthony’s co-laborers. So in
the spring when she ordered me to come
West I came, and allow me to say in good
old Methodist language, for I am a Metho-
dist, I consider it an honor to be here. You
know we Methodists when we come out
and cannot say anything else, we say “it is
good to be here,” and I am glad to be here
with these men and women who breathe
this free air, (for it is very light air, it
makes one long to fly), long enough to
have the spirit of freedom in their hearts. I
cannot understand that kind of a man who
believes the Lord took any more especial
interest in him than he does in anybody
else on earth and when a man thinks he has
a divine right to be any more free than a
woman, I think there is something the
matter with his head. (Laughter and ap-
plause).
	In regard to self-government, God gives
woman as well as man freedom of action,
God does not compel woman any more
than he does man, to obey his laws and
do his will. He places before us a just
and right course of conduct in life, he
makes it possible for us. He knows in his
divine law that no human being can be
moral who is not believed to be moral and
that no human being can be immoral who
is not believed to be immoral and that there
is no virtue in morality unless we have his
love. He places before us the road to vir-
tue and the road to vice and if we choose the
road to virtue and well doing then we will
have strong moral character. Now just
why it should enter into the head of man
that woman should not be just as free on
the earth, I cannot understand, unless it is
that man has never been quite satisfied with
woman because the Lord didn’t consult
him when he created us. (Laughter.)
And so they have never been able to quite
adjust us to their taste because the Lord
made us when man was asleep and he never
thought to wake him up to ask his advice
about us. (Laughter.) They have been
trying to remedy the defects the Lord made.
They have set us a going here and they
have made us a great deal worse than the
Lord did in the beginning. Just look at
the kind of dresses we have been wearing
with shoulders humped up higher than our
heads. The Lord never made us that way,
it was a man dressmaker in Paris.
(Laughter.) Out here in the West some
of the men are conscious that the best thing
to do is to let us alone and we will be a
great deal better friends, sisters, wives and
daughters and above all a great deal better
women for I would rather be a woman than
to be any kind of a relation to anybody.
But the difficulty of this all is that we wo-
men have been legislated for as relation to
somebody. We have never been treated as
men, they don’t make laws for men, for
brothers and sons, fathers and husbands,
they make laws for men as men. Now
when they begin to consider woman as an
individual responsible in herself, responsi-
ble to her God, responsible to the State, re-
sponsible to society, responsible to her
home and responsible in her own right and
in her own being Just as soon as we treat
women as individuals just as we treat men,
it will be a great deal better for both
woman and man. You men are
beginning to realize it now. [
am hearing all the time when the women

[Column 2]
vote they will do this, or they will do that
or what will women do with the ballot? I
cannot tell you what all this body of wo-
men will do with the ballot, I could not
tell you what I would do with the ballot,
I would not swear to anybody that I would
use my ballot in any way but when the
time came I would use it, just as you use
yours just exactly, as I believe it would be
none of your business. (Laughter) no
more would it be my business how you
used your ballot. Now we cannot tell how
any individual woman will use her ballot.
We can tell for the aggregate woman exact-
ly as the aggregate man I cannot tell you
how your Governor will vote to-morrow
but I can tell you pretty generally what
the body of your men would vote to-mor-
row. If I knew the financial condition,
the material condition, and the industrial
condition of your Territory I would know
how the individual man would vote and the
aggregate man would vote for the financial,
industrial and material interests. I cannot
tell how any woman would vote, but I
could tell you how the aggregate woman
would vote, the aggregate woman would
vote for the best interests of home, family
and society, for the best interests of moral
character and highest moral development,
and I believe as long as the world stands it
will be the uniform result of the vote of
the bodies of women to look after the
highest interests of the home, while man
will vote in the interests of salt, wood, pig-
iron and other material interests of the
country, I believe women will look after
the higher moral interests of the com-
munity; not because women are so much
wiser than men, but it has been the plan of
society that the work of man should be to
look after the material interests of the family,
and woman after the moral, educational and
physical interests of the family. Now I
claim that the reason men have not succeed-
ed better in the government is because they
have not tried, I think they have done a
great deal in some directions—that is not
because they have not tried, it is because
they have tried and discovered by experience
that which God said in the beginning that
it was not good for man to undertake any-
thing alone (applause.) I don’t want to
be understood as drawing comparisons be-
tween men and women, all I say is that
men are not everybody and that women are
not nobody—men are somebody and women
are somebody too, and two somebody’s
are needed in the home to make a home
and it takes both men and women to make
a state. I don’t care how lovely a spin-
ster’s home may be—even Miss Anthony
delightful and charming as she is, Miss
Anthony’s old maid home is not as delight-
ful a home as Mr. and Mrs. Anthony’s or
Mr. and Mrs. somebody’s old home would
be, not nearly so, although she has a charm-
ing old home. And my home, Miss
Anthony’s niece, who is my secretary and
I, have a delightful home and we fill it full
of people but we allow no male on the
premises except a male grasshopper: but no
male man is allowed there. Now we have
not the highest kind of a home, we have a
jolly good time but it is not ideal. But as
the home is not ideal with only one woman
in it, and think of a home with a man in
it (laughter) a man was never able to make
a home, home is where the woman is, a man
and a woman can make a home but a man
cannot make any kind of a home. You
put him in a house, it is a house, I don’t

[Column 3]
care how beautiful it is, it is only a house
with a man in it. But you can’t put a wo-
man in a house if it has only two rooms
and a cat that is not a home, especially if
the cat is there. It seems so delightful.
But as a house with only a man in it is not
a home, and a house with a woman in it is
only half a home, you cannot get an ideal
home without man and woman, and you
cannot get an ideal state without men and
women.
	President Elliot, of Harvard University,
said “The family is the tap-root of the
State” and President Elliot is opposed to
Woman Suffrage. Like all other men who
are on the wrong side of the question he is
about as inconsistent as a weather vane, I
never saw one that wasn’t. There is not a
man on the other side of the question that
could argue fifteen minutes without deny-
ing every principle of the declaration of
rights in the end, don’t care who he, is he
denies every principle on which his own
right of freedom is based before he gets
through. In regard to President Elliot’s
remark that the ‘‘family is the tap-root of
the state” now you take the tap-root of
anything and cut one-half of the tap-root
from its connection with the thing which
draws its life from it whether it is a tree or
state with only one half of its life con-
nected, why that part of the tree or any-
thing which should derive its vital power
from that part of the tap-root which has
been severed, will decay, will die, and
what will be the result? The whole body
will finally decay because of the defeat in
one-half of the tap-root. There are some
trees it is said near the ruins of old Babylon
one-half of which are green and filled with
life while the other half are dead, and these
are an exact type of the kind of a state
that is severed from connection with the
half of the life of the people, one-half of
the life of the tap-root of the state. So
notwithstanding President Elliot’s beauti-
ful simile that “the family is the tap-root
of the state’’ he wants to cut off one-half of
the tap-root of the state. It can never be
done, it will never be done and you will
never have the highest and best life until
you come in contact with the whole life of
the state by bringing women in.
	I am so glad that the men of Utah have
had the good sense to see it in time. I am
so glad that a majority of the men in your
Constitutional Convention which means a
majority of the men of your state, had the
good sense to recognize the eternal prin-
ciple and law of God that women had rights
and man is only one-half and woman is the
other half. They can never impress upon
state or society anything else than the en-
tire law of nature demands that recognition.
But you men have made a failure of the
government. If we had had control of the
government we probably would have made
quite as many failures and more especially
in regard to silver, gold and the tariff per-
haps than you, but we are about as able to
settle it as you are, you can no more do it
alone than we can do it alone. Miss An-
thony and I knew we were coming out to a
silver country so we just crammed ourselves
with Coins’ Financial School and there is
nothing you can ask us about silver that we
cannot tell you. We know all about it; but
you men have just been doing for the gov-
ernment all along in the past just exactly
what the gold men are trying to do. Do
you remember in that first book of Coins’
Financial School you have a picture of what


[Column 1]
a single basis of money means where he
tries to give you a very good illustration of
what a gold basis means, a man trying to
see with one eye, trying to carve a turkey
with one hand and trying to walk with one
leg. That is the kind of a government
you have. You have been trying to run it
with one eye, one arm, one leg and you
have been making just as much of a failure
as you possibly can. You cannot do it
alone, you have got to have the other half,
you have got to have the other sex to make
a complete whole government and the
whole life in the government which has got
to be and you men haven’t got sense
enough to see that it has got to be. So in
this way we women are beginning to see
that some men have as much sense as some
women. (Laughter.)
	I don’t know as I want to say anything
more to you this morning, I expect to speak
this evening. I was very much amazed
when the Governor introduced me. I just
want to say to you I rejoice with you and
how I hope if there is any man or any wo-
man who does not believe in the justice of
Woman Suffrage, or if they are afraid that
women will do something or won’t do
something that they will put their heads to
soak for a little while and try to get sense
enough to believe human rights, in the hu-
man family, in the world, and the people of
the world. I should want to die if I did
not believe in humanity. I would have
some doubts of a man’s honesty if I could
not trust him. A gentleman, a minister
in Kansas City said to me the other day,
“Why if you women had the ballot it
would have a bad effect on politics, the bad
men would compel their wives to vote their
way or they would beat them.” I replied
“Well, all men are not as mean as you are.
(laughter) You may beat your wife, you
may pummel her.’’ Why he got mad in a
minute—he straightened himself up and
said “Do you think I would do that? I
didn’t mean me.” I replied, “Oh, did’nt
you! Who did you mean?” He said
“The other fellow.” [laughter] Every-
body thinks he can do the right thing, it is
the other fellow. Now remember, the oth-
er fellow is quite as likely to do the right
thing as you are, and the people who trust
humanity are the people who will always do
the right thing. Now I am not at all afraid
of what women will do with the ballot, I
am not afraid of what men will do with the
ballot, I even believe in men voting
[laughter] and I know some of them will
cast a mighty mean vote too, and I think if
he is a mean man with a vote he will be a
meaner man without it. One of the best
things to educate people out of their mean-
ness and one of the best things to make us
women fit comrades and friends to men, to
make us charming and amiable is to give us
something more substantial. We women
have been fed on poetry, we women have
been fed on sentiment, and the world has
been going wrong and the men have been
trying to comfort us by repeating what we
have so often heard, “Don’t you know the
power of the silent influence of women,”
and don’t you know what the prayers of a
mother can do?”.  And you have wondered
why it was that it was only the prayers of a
mother that affected the good of the people.
I do not believe that God would not hear a
father’s prayer just as well as he would a
mother’s and I believe that a good man is
quite as good as a good woman and his in-
fluence goes as far if it is silent, and it goes

[Column 2]
a good deal farther. Then we are the
“power behind the throne." That is
beautiful, it is poetic—we always like kings
and queens even if we are a Republic, but
you can’t make Queen Lillioukalana believe
that it is a great deal better to be the “pow-
er behind the throne” than upon it. We
know that it is a great deal better to get on
the throne than to stand behind it though
that gives you a little power. Then they
say, “The hand that rocks the cradle moves
the world.” We have heard that and one
would suppose the woman rocks the cradle
about 75 or 80 years of her life. Day and
night three score years and ten the little
fellow never gets out and she is eternally
rocking. Now if we could only keep these
little fellows in the cradle but the trouble is
the little fellows won’t stay there, and the
woman may sit and rock the cradle like a
hen trying to hatch out a last year’s brood.
Now that is the kind of poetic nonsense
that has befen dealt out to us. The world’s
work needs all the world’s people to work
in harmony to lift up men and women out
of degradation, to lift them out of sin to
righteousness. The condition of the world
requires the best efforts of the best men
and women combined and there will not be
too much bestness. The work of the
world demands the highest and best inter-
ests of men and women working side by
side together and instead of bringing dis-
cord it will bring contentment; and there
never will be contentment in the homes of
the world, there never will be peace in
society until all the world is free, until each
person is free to judge for himself and her-
self their position in the home, in the
world, and in the state. When that is done
there will be no occasion for contention.
When we cease this eternal contention that
a man shall do this and a woman shall do
that, when both are left free to do exactly
as they can do and what the world wants
them to do, then we can look forward to
greater peace and prosperity. So I am
looking forward with great hopes for the
incoming state though I will not be here
when the state comes in, but when the
news comes over the wire that Utah has
been admitted I will rejoice ith you.
The people will ask me when I go back if
I have been hired by any real estate agent
to boom the state and we can boom it too.
There ill not be as much thanksgiving
and gratitude in the hearts of any two
people under the sun as will be in the
hearts of Elizabeth Cady-Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony when we shall be able
to place upon our flag by the place of the
two stars that are there now a third star,
and over the star to be the name of this
magnificent State of Utah, [applause]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
