Utah State Conference of Social Workers
The first annual conference of the social workers of the state of Utah will be held in Salt Lake City on October 1 and 2. It is expected that this event will be interesting and an educational one, and it marks an event in the history of the development of welfare work in the state. The organization, known as the Utah Conference of Social Work, was effected in Salt Lake City on July 10, 1925, by a group of persons interested in social welfare. It is the purpose of the Conference to promote a better understanding of the work and aims of the various welfare agencies of the state, and to bring about a closer co-operation among agencies which are interested in promoting the welfare of their communities. At the preliminary summer meeting, officers were selected for the ensuing year and these officers are now planning an elaborate two-day session for the first annual meeting. There will be three sessions on the first day, one at ten a. M., another at 2:00 p. M., and an evening session at 8:00 o'clock. On the second day, morning and afternoon meetings will be held. It is expected that some nationally prominent social workers will be present to address the Conference. Persons from various parts of the state engaged in various types of community betterment, will also make addresses. The subjects for discussion will be those of vital interest to all persons engaged in social work. The unemployment problem will be discussed and special sessions will be devoted to child welfare and to family problems. Several round table discussions are planned so that questions can be raised and particular problems can be discussed. The meeting will be open to all persons who are interested in welfare work. The date for the social workers Conference precedes the Relief Society Conference which is October 3, and all visiting Relief Society workers will be made welcome. The officers of the Utah State Conference of Social Work are as follows:
President.......................................Supt. E. J. Milne First Vice President.....................Miss A. A. Buffington Second Vice President....................Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman Secretary-Treasurer............................Miss Cora Kasius
The board members are, Miss Kate Williams George W. Worthen B. H. Robinson Eunice Wattis Bowman A. Alma Clayton Mrs. A. H.