Women of the East and the Veil One of the interesting institutions of Syria, is the American College at Beirut. February last, when we visited it, we found the people on the campus in a ferment of excitement because a Mohammedan woman had won first place in the season's oratorical contest. It usually stirs women to have a woman win first place in a contest, when in competition with men, but when that woman proves to be a Mohammedan woman, and her theme no other than the dropping of the veil, under the caption, "Show them the light," there is no element lacking to arouse interest and enthusiasm. The contest in question was held on February 21, 1925, in what is known as West Hall, at the Armenian College, in this Syrian city. The winner of the contest, Ihsan Ihmad, is a married woman. She was one of seven contestants, the other contestants were gentlemen. Members of the faculty in speaking of the matter said that the winning of the contest, by a Mohammedan woman, on that theme, was an epoch-making event, particularly as two of the three judges selected are of the faith of Islam. The prize awarded was $35 which Madam Ihmad promptly turned over to the treasurer of the Alumni Association of the college with $35 added. That the wearing of the veil by the women of the East is a species of bondage, none can doubt who have seen it in practice. The revolution that made of Turkey a republic also encouraged the Turkish woman to drop her veil. She was responded to this 
 encouragement in a gratifying manner. The Arabic woman is very much slower to act in this direction, and as yet she has not received the moral support that the Turkish woman has received. When we visited the seaport town of Jaffa, in Palestine, a woman stood near a tree, with her veil pulled aside, that she might have a better look at us. One day while stopping in the "street Straight," in Damascus, our attention was called from what we were doing, by a hand thrust against our back, we turned suddenly only to find a woman who drew aside her veil quickly, and held it for an instant, as if she would say, "I, too, should like to be as free and unencumbered, in such matters, as the women of the West are." We were told at the College that the young men of the East would very much like to see their mothers. And sisters drop the veil, and that, at exclusive parties, the Eastern maiden frequently appears, when escorted by her brother, without her veil. To be sure, we met persons who said that the Eastern woman must, of necessity, use a great deal of judgment in the matter of dropping the veil, for there are some types of Eastern men who might interpret such an action as an invitation to them to become unduly familiar. However, all persons agreed that time and usage will obviate that difficulty. Apart from looks in the matter the veil must be both uncomfortable and unsanitary. Here in these hot countries the cool winds of heaven are not allowed to touch the face of the woman; she is denied the invigoration of first hand contact with sun and air. Those of us who wore masks during the influenza epidemic may be able to sympathize in a measure. Then, too, looks are important. It is a difficult matter for one unacquainted with the custom to realize how unbecoming this sort of dress is, and how completely it obscures all personal charm and beauty. At best when the woman wears a black crepe silk gown, with the head piece a sort of hood to match, and a veil of the same material, as we saw some of the wealthiest women in Damascus wearing, even then it is in no way attractive, yet what we saw frequently was a woman wearing something like a white sheet, folded at the top, in some such fashion as a pillowcase might be folded to form a hood, the remaining part of the sheet forming a mantle, while across her face was a piece of black cloth that served as a veil. This custom assuredly works to make the woman, designed by the creator to be beautiful, little less than hideous.; While in Egypt we heard of women who are pleading for a broader and freer life for the women, and a similar story greeted our ears in Constantinople: We wish them success in their struggle, and we trust that the day is not far distant when the Eastern woman will not feel the embarrassment she feels today when visiting western lands; but that she will stand face to face with her sister from the west with no veil intercepting. EDITORIAL 525 American Literature Coming to its Own Years of struggle, with many rebuffs from the people across the great ocean, is the story behind the effort for the recognition of American literature abroad. At present that recognition so eagerly sought and so persistently withheld for many years is in no small measure realized. During the month of May a goodly number of celebrations in honor of Washington Irving were held throughout Spain. During the month of April the following comments appeared in the Paris edition of the New York Herald: "It is quite true that the memory of Irving, of Fenimore Cooper and of Poe, seems to be more alive in Europe than in our own country. In almost all French bookshops one sees translations of their works." Moreover, these writers were not really scorned by Europe in their own day, for both Scott and Campbell borrowed lines from the American writer Freneau, we are told on good authority. "Tt is a pretty general opinion, at present, that contemporary criticism, of early American writers, including such men as James Kirke Paulding and Nathaniel Parker Willis was far from justified," says a writer of recent date. A new edition of pioneer American writers would perhaps attract a good deal of attention at home, and it would surely be far better appreciated than ever before at home. Many of the members of the Relief Society became acquainted with these writers when they were pupils in the public schools. The members of the Relief Society have followed a course in American Literature just at the time when Americans at home are more fully conscious of its worth, than ever before, and when Europe is willing to admit that America, too, had writers of worth when Scott and Byron wrote.