[Vol12 | December 1925 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Editor Abroad Alice L. Reynolds]

The Editor Abroad Palestine By Alice L. Reynolds.
Fourteen hours from the city of Cairo brought us to the city of Jerusalem—the city that has been glorified in poetry and song throughout the Christian era. The words, "Jerusalem, my glorious home" rings in the ears of most Christians. The country between Cairo and Cantara, the place where we took the boat to cross the Suez canal, was not unlike other parts of Egypt, the mud hut and the date palm being in evidence most of the distance. It took only a minute or two to cross the canal, and when we reached the opposite bank a gentleman who had been detailed to meet us said, "You have now crossed from Africa to Asia," then he continued, "you are on the desert of Sinai, the country over which Moses passed with the hosts of Israel." Turning partly around he drew our attention to an air-dome, which he said was used in the transmission of air-mail to India. My traveling companion and I were rather weary, yet we could not sleep for we knew a few hours would bring us into the sacred city of the Jews, and we wondered all the time what it would be like.
At one time during the night we went to the window and looked out and there we saw an oasis. It consisted of date palm trees close enough to make a forest, they were wind-swept and sprinkled copiously with the sands of the desert. Nevertheless, we could readily imagine that this place would be a veritable haven of rest to the caravan passing to and fro from Palestine to Egypt. As the first streaks of dawn began to be visible, so that the landscape was more apparent, we noted groves of oranges with ripe oranges upon them. We learned later that the orange is one of the chief products of Palestine, also that it produces one of the most delicious varieties to be found anywhere in the world. Later in these articles we shall tell the story of our visit to Jaffa, the principal port of Palestine, where we visited orange groves whose trees were heavily laden with the sweetest oranges we have anywhere tasted in our life.
Before we reached the city of Jerusalem, we noted places of interest along the road. A few minutes after our train arrived we were at the gates of the city. Even a casual examination of the city of Jerusalem will reveal the fact that it is built upon a rock. The wall surrounding it has eleven gates, five of which are closed. The gates through which the main traffic of the city is carried on are the Jaffa gate, the Damascus gate, and the St. Stephens gate. Two prominent mountains have figured in the history of Jerusalem from very early days. The first is Mt. Moriah, the mount on which Isaac was taken by his father preparatory to the sacrifice; and the second, Mt. Zion, of which the poets sing. It is asserted on good authority that during the time of Christ a bridge spanned the valley of the Tyropean which lay between these two important mountains, but the rubbish of centuries has so filled up the ravine that today it has almost disappeared. Two other valleys deserve mention in any discussion of Jerusalem. They are the valley of Hinnon and the valley of the Kedron, or the valley of Jehosaphat. Mt. Zion and Mt. Moriah are respectively 2,500 and 2,600 feet above sea level. The mountains surrounding the city are not vastly higher than the mountains on which the city is built, but about them are twined historical events connected with the lives of the ancient prophets of Israel and with the life of the Savior.
[A SHEPHERD AND HIS SHEEP ON THE JUDEAN HILLS]
To the east of Jerusalem is the Mount of Olives, not lofty, but for all that, perhaps the most sacred mountain in all history. Whatever disappointment may be felt in attempts to locate other spots where the Savior traversed during the period of his great and glorious ministry, in this instance, at least, one has full assurance that he often went to this mountain and often lingered there. It has a commanding view. From its summit one can see the mountains of Moab and discern among the peaks that of Nebo, as well as the Dead Sea that stretches at their base. We entered Jerusalem through the Jaffa gate, near the place where the wall was cut that the Kaiser and his train of followers might enter in 1898. On our right was the tower of David, and on our left several hotels and the best tourists' shops in Jerusalem. The hotel at which we stayed was called the New Grand. It has the advantage of being within the walls of the city, while many of the hotels where tourists find accommodations, at the present time, are without the city walls. Our little party was there near the middle of February, and while the sky was clear and the air balmy, it was keen enough to call for a fire in the drawing room and an oil stove in our bed room at night, as well as a generous supply of clothing. We fared better, however, than a group of American tourists who were in the city a week earlier. They said they were compelled to sleep in their clothing in order to keep warm.
It is necessary to keep in mind that the Jerusalem of the present time is a Mohammedan city, Palestine having been in the hands of the Turks for over six hundred years. After refreshing ourselves at the hotel and eating breakfast, we were joined by our guide, Mr. John Audi. Mr. Audi is a Christian Arab who has lived in the United States for a number of years, thereby obtaining a very good knowledge of the English language which he spoke practically without accent. Strangely enough, he was a Protestant, belonging to The Society of Friends. He said that a Quaker visiting Palestine had interested his father in the Friends' religion, and that his family belonged to that sect. He enjoyed the life in America, and only returned to Palestine because upon his father's death he was left considerable property, and there was no one else to take care of it.
[PRIMITIVE METHODS OF FARMING IN VOGUE IN PALESTINE]
We were first taken into some of the business streets of Jerusalem. Little, old, narrow streets with a canopy overhead that afforded excellent opportunity for a fierce encounter in case a riot broke out in the street. Indeed, persons fighting in such streets have very little chance for escape; they might easily be caught like rats in a trap. At each of the little booths, which were so small that an ordinary piano box would furnish about as much room, were artisans making jewelry, bronzes, and shoes with inlaid pearls. These streets are so narrow that no vehicle could possibly pass through them. The pedestrian and equestrian use the same street; any minute one is apt to come face to face with a donkey; in fact, it is a very usual experience. The donkey trudges on, the pedestrian steps aside, no special inconvenience appears to be felt by either.
Elsewhere in these articles we have said something of the people one meets on a trip. Human nature provides a good deal of amusement for all of us; on the streets of Jerusalem it was not lacking. On the steamship Sphinx, the boat on which we had traveled to the Orient, we met two young women very greatly interested in crossword puzzles. We met these two young women once again on the streets of Jerusalem. The natural thing in passing would have been to exchange comments about some feature of the life in that city, but very much to our surprise, the young women greeted us with the query, "Have you done any crossword puzzles since we saw you last?" We caught another glimpse of this same young woman later on in our visit; she was at what is known as the garden tomb. Nothing in the surroundings seemed to be of much concern to her; there she sat in a clump of trees working a crossword puzzle.
We wandered through the streets for a time, past the vegetable stands that were so close to us that we felt we could touch them on each side by stretching out our hands. We were descending rapidly; our guide informed us that he was taking us to the wailing wall. The wailing wall is considerably below the present level of the city. The path over which we walked was pretty well lined with beggars who presented a very distressing appearance. Our Christian guide told us that the beggars were Jews, while the Jewish nurse that we found in a Zionist hospital said they were Arabs. It matters not to which group these people belonged, the thing that is significant is that beggars literally infest the Orient, and in no place did we see them where they looked more truly miserable than in and about Jerusalem. Two of the most horribly misshapen and thoroughly degraded human beings that I have ever seen were without the walls of the city of Jerusalem.
When we arrived at the wailing wall, we found a group of people facing a wall whose stones were of immense dimensions, very much larger than the stones used in the Salt Lake temple or flagstones sometimes made use of in pavements and in the floors of public buildings. They had their hands and faces against the wall and were swaying to and fro repeating Lamentations. They were wailing, reminding the Lord of his promise that at some future time they should return and redeem that land. Later, on Friday evening, which is the eve of the Jewish Sabbath, we came in contact with a much larger group at the wailing wall, so that the wailing gained materially in volume of sound. Their costumes proved interesting. The men wore long velvet coats. Sometimes black, sometimes blue, and sometimes a dark red. These coats were occasionally trimmed with fur. They wore hats made of velvet with a round crown and a brim that went entirely around the crown of medium width. This brim was trimmed with a yellowish brown fur. Their hair was cut behind and in front were two locks of hair that were curled tight and stood out in corkscrew fashion. We were told that the persons thus attired were Jewish rabbis, and that the very young men among them were on probation and would in time become rabbis. When we enquired why they wore these two locks projecting forth in front and looking truly hideous, we were told that it was through their regard for that passage of scripture which reads, "Neither shall they shave their heads, nor suffer their locks to grow long: they shall only poll their heads."
[A JEW OF JERUSALEM AS HE APPEARS AT THE WAILING WALL]
Miss Elliott and I were intensely amused at all we saw, and would have been quite content to have remained where we were standing, but we were approached by a gentleman who reminded us that we were in the gentlemen's part and that we should go to the other end where the women were wailing. However, while we complied gladly with the request, we were rather pleased that we inadvertently got out of place, as it gave us an excellent opportunity to see all that was going on. Another matter in connection with this wailing wall aroused our curiosity a good deal. We saw them poking little pieces of paper in between the big seams in the walls and wondered about it. Our guide informed us that they had a notion that the messages written on these notes would reach Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, their prophets to whom they are wont to turn in hours of distress and weakness, so that always a good many notes are sent. We retraced our steps through the vegetable stands and jewel shops, and as we looked to the sides we knew how perfectly easy it would be for a person to be caught unawares in these streets or dragged into some passage or dark hole from which he could never be recovered. People pretty generally know that Oriental streets should not be traversed in the night time, as most anything might happen.
[ST. CATHERINE'S CLOISTER BY MOUNT SINAI]