[Vol1 | Aug 1914 | Sequence: 03b | Category: Lesson | Title: Health and Hygiene Lesson II]

HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II.
Note  The Health Committee, having been fortunately put into possession of a group of leaflets from the Salt Lake City Board of Health, have changed the August Outlines, giving the following topics in place of those found in the guide, believing them to be best for all parties.  Suggestion It is respectfully suggested and earnestly urged that each Relief Society Ward President appoint a custodian to take charge of the literature sent out by our General Board, who is a conscientious and a capable woman, and that this literature be kept where it may readily be used for reference.
If the ward has no library started, this will form a
10 . nucleus for one.
If there is a library already, these circulars will prove a valuable addition.
Note We are well aware that despite all precautions, children become ill, and people die.
But also we know how well it can be proved that the percentage of deaths has been so greatly decreased by the more intelligent and improved methods in caring for human life.
How to Take Care of Babies During Hot Weather.
Note Find answers in leaflets with above heading.
What is the best food for babies?
If baby cries should you feed it?
What about the baby's sleep?
Its clothing?
Its bath?
Should babies be tossed about or fondled too much?
How may baby sickness be measurably prevented?
Give the suggestions as to fresh air, and the effect of much heat.
What about keeping the house cool and clean?
The arrangement of doors and windows?
What about baby sleeping out of doors during hot weather?
How protect him?
Name some things which should never remain in baby's room.
Food and Water.
What is a mother's first duty?
We have already told what is the best food for a baby, but repetition will impress this upon us.
Give one of the chief causes of sickness in babies.
What about diarrhoea?
Nurse Regularly.
Give suggestions as to nursing the baby.
What about weaning the baby?
Bottle Children.
What is the best food for children who have not mother's milk.
What is your duty in regard to your dairyman and his dairy?
What about the care of the milk?
How may the milk become contaminated?
.
11 Nursing Bottles and Nipples.
Is it needful to have more than one bottle and nipple?
Give directions for caring for them.
Sleep.
What about habits of sleep in babies?
Letting the Baby Alone. "What about holding a baby a great deal?
Do children like to play by themselves when not trained to it?
Never relax watchful care, but give them as much freedom as possible.
Clothing.
Give directions for clothing the baby in summer Bathing.
Should babies be bathed frequently?
How often?
Why do some children not like their bath?
What should be the temperature of the bath?
Give some of the rules suggested for caring for sick children.
Give some of the DON'TS in regard to feeding. (See cover of leaflet.) The Care of Milk in the Home.
Read carefully all the directions given in the pamphlet with the above title, and see that each Relief Society member gets a thorough understanding of the matter contained in leaflet with above heading.
If there is time, follow with general discussion and helpful experience from members.  Note Read and make use of A Warning to Mothers.
August