[Vol35 | June 1948 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: SERIAL Chapter]
386 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE  1948 
X 
MORMON  GRISTMILL 
The  photograph  shows  the  gristmill,  as 
it  was  remodeled  by  William  A.  Conn, 
after  the  departure  of  the  Latter-day  Saint 
colonists. 
Many  accounts  are  told  of  the 
treacherous  journey  of  this  company, 
of  their  faith  and  their  constant  ap- 
peals to  God  to  strengthen  them 
and  their  teams,  and  of  their  miracu- 
lous deliverance  from  the  horrors  of 
the  desert.  One  can,  therefore, 
imagine  their  great  joy,  that  this  trip 
was  made  with  so  little  loss  and 
misfortune.  At  the  latter  end  of  the 
journey,  Amasa  M.  Lyman,  Captain 
Jefferson  Hunt,  Joseph  Matliews, 
and  Charles  C.  Rich  precec^ed  the 
wagon  trains,  and  on  June  9,  1851, 
reached  the  sycamore  gr^ve  near  the 
southern  end  of  Cajo^i  Pass.  Captain 
Seely's  fifties  reached  this  point  two 
days  later,  June  ^i,  1851.  The  date 
on  which  the^e  weary  and  footsore 
Mormon  p^^oneers  paused  on  the 
edge  of  t-^ie  San  Bernardino  Valley, 
is,  indeed,  a  memorable  one  in  valley 
history. 
TAyiTHIN  a  month  of  their  arrival 
at  the  sycamore  grove,  this 
colony  of  saints  held  their  first  con- 
ference. David  Seely  was  elected 
president  of  the  mission,  with  Sam- 
uel Rolfe  and  Simeon  Andrews  as 
counselors,  and  Richard  R.  Hopkins 
as  secretary.  From  the  intimate 
views  of  life  in  San  Bernardino  as 
recorded  in  the  minutes  of  Brother 
Hopkins,  much  rich  material  has 
been  gathered. 
That  the  pioneers  were  wel- 
comed into  the  valley,  first  reserved- 
ly, then  with  greater  confidence,  "be- 
cause of  their  apparent  fine  quali- 
ties, is  certain  from  an  account  tak- 
en from  The  Los  Angeles  Star  early 
in  July  1851,  which  reads: 
We  learn  that  they  (the  Mormons)  are 
negotiating  for  the  purchase  of  the  Ran- 
cho  of  San  Bernardino  from  the  family  of 
Don  Antonio  Maria  Lugo,  by  whom  it  is 
held.  This  is  the  site  of  the  old  Mission 
of  San  Bernardino.  Here  probably  this 
interesting  people  will  make  their  first 
establishment  on  the  shores  of  the  Pacific. 
A  later  and  less  reserved  mention 
is  quoted  from  the  same  source: 
The  Mormons  are  an  industrious  com- 
munity, and  will  develop  the  resources  of 
this  county  to  an  extent  that  will  give  it 
an  importance  second  to  no  county  in 
the  state. 
After  careful  consideration,  nego- 
tiations were  concluded  for  the  pur- 
chase of  the  San  Bernardino  Rancho 
for  the  sum  of  $77,500.  One  realiz- 
es, from  this,  the  vast  undertaking 
and  obligation  that  lay  ahead  of 
these  settlers. 
In  those  days  the  settlers  were  vul- 
nerable to  vicious  attacks  by  the  In- 
dians regardless  of  the  friendly  atti- 
tude the  saints  held  for  them,  and

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  IN  SAN  BERNARDINO 
387 
it  was  necessary  to  build  a  strong 
stockade,  which  was  accomphshed 
by  the  donated  work  of  all  the  men 
of  the  settlement.  The  stockade  oc- 
cupied approximately  700  x  300  feet 
of  space.  The  walls  were  of  fifteen- 
foot  Cottonwood  and  willow  logs, 
split  in  half,  and  set  three  feet  in 
the  ground  side  by  side.  Upon  this 
spot,  where  once  stood  the  stockade, 
the  fine  building  of  the  San  Bernar- 
dino County  Court  House  now 
stands,  while  a  marker  designates 
the  place  as  'The  Mormon  Stock- 
ade." Crowded  into  this  small  space, 
housewives  must  have  had  many 
nerve-wracking  experiences,  for  the 
men  were  away  the  greater  part  of 
the  time.  They  were  heroines,  in- 
deed. Here  they  remained,  waiting 
for  the  surveying  and  the  laying  out 
of  the  city. 
As  with  all  Latter-day  Saint  settle- 
ments, the  planting  of  crops  was 
paramount.  It  is  recorded  that  by 
December  1851,  a  field  of  1300  acres 
was  selected  as  a  grain  field,  and  a 
300-acre  field  for  summer  crops.  Al- 
so a  tract  for  a  vineyard  was  laid  out. 
Early  in  April,  Elders  Lyman  and 
Rich  planted  the  center  stake  for 
the  City  of  San  Bernardino  on  Tem- 
ple Block  (now  Pioneer  Park) .  This  ; 
was  located  on  E  Street,  between  ; 
Fifth  and  Sixth  Streets.  Mr.  Hess,  a  4 
surveyor,  assisted  them.    When  the  j 
streets  were  laid  out,  the  ones  run-j 
ning  east  and  west  were  numbered  1 
as  at  present,    but    those    running 
north  and  south  were  given  names. 
The  present  E  Street  was  Salt  Lake 
Street,  and  D  Street  was  Utah  Street. 
A  canvas  pavilion  had  served  as 
an  assembly  hall,  but  in  April,  a 
"bowery"  was  erected.  It  was  an 
adobe  building  sixty  by  thirty  feet. 
Here  the  conference  was  held  April 
6,  1852.  This  building  served  for 
day  school  for  125  scholars,  under 
the  direction  of  two  well-qualified 
teachers  and  was  also  used  for  Sun- 
day   services.     Much     mention    is 
CITY  OF  SAN  BERNARDINO,  CALIFORNIA,   1857 
The  building  with  the  flagstaff  is  the  Latter-day  Saint  Council  House.    Bishop  Wil- 
liam Crosby's  hotel  and  garden  are  on  the  right.

388 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE   1948 
RUINS  OF  THE  ADOBE  HOME  OF  AMASA  M.  LYMAN 
This  home,  built  in  1854,  burned  in   1865.    The  Bowery,  or  Council  House,  is 
in  the  background. 
made  of  the  importance  of  schooling 
for  the  children  of  the  settlement. 
The  first  gristmill  for  the  produc- 
tion of  flour  was  located  near  the 
intersection  of  the  present  Mill  and 
Allen  Streets.  The  mill  wheel  was 
to  be  turned  by  water  diverted  from 
Warm  Creek.  This  work  was  be- 
gun in  May  1852. 
A  note  dated  June  26,  1852,  writ- 
ten by  Brother  Hopkins,  is  of  spec- 
ial interest: 
Today  we  have  the  pleasure  of  receiv- 
ing news  from  our  friends  in  the  Valley 
(Salt  Lake)  ....  Near  nine  months  has 
elapsed  without  our  hearing  a  word  from 
them.  All  hands  turned  out  and  gave  hearty 
welcome  to  eight  numbers  of  the  Deseret 
News. 
'T^HAT  the  spirit  of  love  and  charity 
existed  in  this  early  settlement 
is  \ery  evident  by  the  fact  that  the 
first  Fourth  of  July  was  celebrated, 
on  July  c;  (the  Fourth  being  Sun- 
day), by  harvesting  the  grain  of  El- 
der Rich,  during  his  absence  on  a 
trip  to  Salt  Lake  City.  Every  July 
Fourth,  thereafter,  was  celebrated 
in  patriotic  fashion. 
That  the  valley  was  fertile  and 
crops  successful  is  certain,  for  it  is 
recorded,  at  a  ''Harvest  Feast,"  held 
September  4,  1852,  such  specimens 
were  displayed  as  a  stalk  of  Indian 
corn  sixteen  feet  high;  four  onions 
weighing  nine  and  one  half  pounds; 
a  cabbage  weighing  twenty-four  and 
one  half  pounds;  with  melons, 
squashes,  and  other  vegetables  in 
proportion. 
On  November  7,  1852,  Colonel 
Henry  Washington,  a  United  States 
deputy  surveyor,  completed  erection 
of  a  monument  on  the  top  of  Mt. 
San  Bernardino.  Through  it  ran 
the  base  line  from  which  surveys  in 
the  southern  part  of  California  were, 
and  still  are  made.  This  street  is 
called  Base  Line  today. 
In  the  Fall  of  1852,  Captain  Jef- 
ferson Hunt  was  elected  to  the  Leg- 
islature of  California  and  in  April