[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Great American Marine Painters]
GREAT AMERICAN MARINE PAINTERS.
Winslow Homer and Charles H.
Woodbury, both New England artists, are foremost among the few marine painters of note in America.
Woodbury is still alive.
One of his great marines may be seen in the beautiful art room of the University of Utah.
This picture is a part of the Alice Art Collection, and was bought through the efforts of Edwin Evans, a fellow artist with Woodbury in the Julian studio in Paris.
Homer died in his seventy-fifth year, in 1910.
Winslow Homer. "Talent!" said Homer, "there's no such thing as talent.
What they call talent is nothing but capacity for doing continuous hard work in the right way." Homer detested hypocrisy and pretense, and preferred as associates his own kin, and the simple fishing people of the neighborhood.
He was conscious of his own powers, and therefore paid no attention to criticism, ill or good; he had no desire to please the public.
He gave his whole life to art.
Homer first saw the light of day in Boston, and entered his long apprenticeship to art there in a lithographing establishment, but at the age of 23 we find him seeking a greater art center, New York, and in April, 1858, Harpers' published his first drawing a street scene with thirty figures in the composition.
He was immediately offered a position in Harpers' establishment, but says, "from the time I took my nose off that lithographic stone, I have had no one I would call master, and never shall." He took a private studio in New York, and was . able to support himself with his "black and white" work.
He got an appointment from the Harpers as artist-correspondent at the seat of the Civil War, going first to make sketches of Lincoln's inauguration, March, 1859, and then to the front with the first troop of volunteers.
He departed from all precedent.
Unlike the world-famed pictures at the Palaces of Versailes, and at the galleries in all of Europe, which were painted in the studio and depict the gallant commander, his sword high in air, leading the armed hosts to battle,  an unknown thing in  any real battle, Homer made drawings from actual life and on the spot. "Thanksgiving in Camp of 1862," "Pay Day in the Army of the Potomac of 1863," "Soldiers Playing Football. 1865." "The Newspaper Train," "Wounded," "Home from  the War," each wrought a personal touch that electrified readers of war news at home.
His first paintings in oil, "The Last Goose at Yorktown," and "Home Sweet Home," were admitted at the National Academy, 1863. "Prisoners from the Front" followed and went over the water to the Paris International Exposition.
Homer's candor and truthfulness won friends abroad for the brave young artist.
John La Farge, another great American artist, on his deathbed said of "Prisoners at the Front:" "Homer made a marvelous painting, marvelous in every way, ' especially in the grasp of the moment.
Homer next returned to Old Virginia, where he painted negro subjects, thereby adding to his fame.
In 1880, he began to feel the lure of the sea, and abandoned the illustrated press, believing there was a greater field in oils and water color.
Now began a series of paintings in which pattern became a potent influence to guide his brush.
These pictures are filled with wonderful designs in line and mass, which carried his work far ahead of What it had been.
He crossed and recrossed the ocean, studying the North Sea coast at Tynemouth-on-Tyne, and there painted a wonderful group of sea pictures.
Sailors and fishing folk were often painted into these mystic pictures of the sea.
His greatest works, however, were painted from American subjects.
These he found in the Bahamas, Cuba and at Key West, Florida.
But the most wonderful of all are his pictures of the rock-bound sea coast of Maine, painted from the windows of his own studio.
In those pictures you are made to feel the power, the weight, and the thrust of the Atlantic billow.
The year following Homer's death, two memorial exhibitions were given for him in America Boston and New York viewing with each other in doing honor to this great painter.
. 7 Charles Woodbury.
Charles H.
Woodbury, through his mother, is a relative of the Prophet Joseph Smith, so he told the writer, who visited his studio in the east, and who later received from him a beautiful study of the sea from his own brush.
In his studio were boxes and boxes of small color sketches which were very rapidly painted, and which show the great work and dexterity of the artist.
Woodbury spends most of his time at sea.
There, strapped to the mast, he paints while the seas run high.
As an old salt, he never suffers seasickness.
Alertness and memory are necessary in a powerful degree to a successful marine painter.
He must select his pictures as he watches the waves, for it comes and is gone in a moment.
His picture he must paint from memory.
He must get his tone from the quick study and keep to that, though for details aside from color he may use dozens of other such studies.
It takes years of watchful, alert study and work to prepare a painter to portray the sea.
This is one of the reasons there are so few marine painters.
Landscapists find difficulty in painting because of the changing lights, but when everything is changing the difficulties are tremendous.
Woodbury loves work.
He is intensely intellectual, alert, and enthusiastic, high minded, and has a grasp of vision and openness of understanding that act with a velocity akin to lightning.
He has a more delicate color-sense than Homer, He is clean in his life, and honest at the foundation, convincing in style.
He has won a place among the great American painters, and is always seen in important pictures at the great expositions.
Mr.
Woodbury has warm friends among the Utah artists, and is planning to stay over in Utah en route to the 1915 California exposition.
