[Vol1 | September 1914 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Home | Title: Home Ethics]
HOME ETHICS Lesson VIL The Complete Home.
The fundamental principle which promotes gentleness, love, and abiding content in the home is consideration for the feelings of others.
That principle and the great love prompting their actions cause parents to make the immense sacrifice which they are sometimes called upon to endure for the sake of their children.
We believe the training of a child begins in the conduct of its ancestors long before its own birth.
That is called heredity.
But we know that good parents do everything that lies in their power to give their children strong healthy bodies, good mentality . 11 and then to impart and to train the religious feelings.
It is one of the greatest of misfortunes to the child and one of the greatest omissions on the part of parents not to have religious training from infancy.
In childhood faith in Deity is naturally strong and belief in the wisdom and knowledge of parents is unbounded.
The impressions made in infancy and childhood are apt to remain forever.
No home life can be complete or perfect while there are defective members.
And toward the wayward ones there should be exercised enduring patience, abiding faith, and endless love.
Those qualities exercised in the home promote tranquility and often work wonders with erring ones.
That saying of the Prophet Joseph Smith, "The Glory of God is intelligence," is one of the most frequently quoted of his remarks.
That his followers take it literally is evidenced by the church schools which have been established, and also by the great desire to accumulate knowledge which is manifested by Church members generally.
To those who have not had the opportunities they desire, it is good to remember that a little knowledge gained every day makes great accumulations in time.
Parents have the advantage over their children in the wisdom that comes with the experience of the years.
Children in their turn often enjoy educational advantages in the schools, of which their parents were deprived.
Each should remember in his daily life and conduct his own advantages and the lesser advantages of the other.
