OUR MUSIC FORCES
No better work has been done in any of our departments than that accomplished through the musical forces of our General Board. Our efficient choir leader, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, our gifted organist, Miss Edna Coray, and our no less devoted and excellent Relief Society choir members, have given their best and finest powers to reach and maintain the high standard of excellence which makes our choir locally famous. Both leaders and members unite in presenting beautiful music, beautifully rendered; and when one looks into the faces of the singers, many of them care-burdened mothers and grandmothers, the wonder grows at the single-hearted devotion which marks all their efforts. It is a true saying that "Music is its own best reward;" yet it is also true that these saintly singers realize in their labors the divine truth of the words of the Lord to Emma Smith, when she was instructed to prepare a hymn book: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." Doctrine and Covenants, 25:12.
MRS, LIZZIE THOMAS EDWARD Chorister of the Relief Society Choir By Evan Stephens
Taken all in all, length of service, efficiency; as a vocal soloist, teacher, conductor of ladies' choruses and ward choirs; as a member of our world-famed Tabernacle choir, we are proud to point to "Sister Lizzie," as first and foremost of all our highly talented sisters in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and a worthy example for the talented women of our communities to follow for all time. Born in Wales, but brought to Utah by her parents while a small child, she grew up to develop her talents in Salt Lake City. She early joined her ward choir, where Professor Ebenezer Beesley readily recognized her talents, and encouraged her to develop them. She soon graduated, as it were, into the Tabernacle choir, under the same director, and was not long in attracting attention to the beauty and purity of her voice. However, it was her appearance in a Cantata as "Queen Esther" in the Tabernacle choir, under the direction of Professor George Careless, that gave proof of her superior qualities; still more when she appeared as "Arline" in the opera of the "Bohemian Girl" and as "Martha" in the opera of that name, both under -the direction of Professor Evan Stephens?to whom she gives chief credit both for her advancement, training, and encouraging directions into so many branches of musical service in the Church. Under him she has rendered parts in both solo and chorus work, not only in the tabernacle, and in home music affairs, but in the leading cities of America, from San Francisco on the Pacific, to the Atlantic, and in Washington, where she sang in the White House, as soloist at the program given there by the Tabernacle choir upon their tour to New York. Never in all the years has she stinted or spared her lovely voice in the choir to keep or preserve it for her solo work; and yet so blessed has she been for her liberal service in this and other lines that her voice has never been marred, or in the least injured thereby. Her voice has a bell-like roundness and purity that is indeed rare, and is capable alike of "dramatic" or "coloratura" work. Her finest efforts have been heard in the "Inflammatus" with the choir, and in the highly difficult selection "Polonaise" from the "Mignon." During a visit of Mme. Nordica to Salt Lake so delighted was the eminent cantatrice with Sister Edward's rendition of this her favorite aria that she, Madam Nordica, insisted upon the two being photographed together. The occasions. When her sweet voice has been heard at funerals she could count by thousands; her talented pupils are numerous, and last of all she has organized and trained a real Relief Society chorus, of such excellence as to stand out as a credit to the organization and the Church. This is not easy to do with the older voices. Her best efforts come from the group voices. Only a. Brief period of ten months has she ever spent in study away from her home, and that under Mme. Fosc, of the Zeigfield musical classes in Chicago. Her schooling has been closely connected with home service to and among her own people. Her heart's joy is to contemplate especially her association with Professor Stephens, and the Tabernacle choir events for years, and the numerous side branches of service the Church calls for from this ever-willing ever-faithful Latter-day Saint talented woman. ?
NEW PRESIDENT AND GENERAL BOARD ? 403
MISS EDNA CORAY
For the first three years of the life of our General Organist she romped over the meadows and fields of her father's ranch at the foot of Mt. Nebo; from whose majestic supervision she was, transferred to the Colorado Rockies, while her father Howard K. Coray was helping build the D. & R. G. Railroad., During this wonderful year she explored the picturesque hills by day, listened to camp-fire stories and songs in the evenings, and thrilled at the weird voice of wolf or panther that roamed those same hills by night. Among the earliest settlers in the San Luis Valley, Colorado, Mr. Coray became the first chorister of the Ephraim ward and taught his little daughter the sol-feggio and other elements of music so that at the age of seven Edna would take his tuning fork, and a music book and call a rehearsal of her mimic doll pupils to teach them a new song?one doll being set up in the attitude of playing a make-believe pipe organ of blocks. At eight and a half she was presented by her parents with a parlor organ on which she soon learned to play chord accompaniments that her mother adapted from her guitar book. Then the doll organist was promoted to a position just beside the keys. The first teacher in the valley was Miss Nettie Alphine, a pupil of Professor Orson Pratt, of Salt Lake City. A summer Visitor in the valley, she taught a class on the reed organ during her stay, and the nine-year-old, Edna was an eager disciple. After this term of lessons she began playing for her father's choir, and for the Primary. When between ten and twelve years of age, she was given a piano by her parents, and received instructions for about two years from Professor J. O. Float of New York City and Denver, a student of Listz, who spent two or three summers at Alamosa, a railroad town about twenty miles from Ephraim. At thirteen, Edna was appointed organist of San Luis stake and began teaching organ and piano, driving a pony cart to Manassa and Sanford where her pupils resided. In the spring of 1892, she came to Salt Lake City to reside, continuing musical and general education. She confessed that this move cost her a canoe, three saddle horses, and her pet ambition to win the ladies' horse race at the county fair?a sacrifice compensated in part by opportunities to study pipe organ with the late Professor Joseph J. Daynes for about three years. At

eighteen she was his unofficial assistant at the tabernacle, and in that capacity accompanied the Tabernacle choir, under Professor Evan Stephens, upon a trip to California, also to Denver. On the latter occasion she was also accompanying Mme, Amanda Swenson's prize-winning ladies chorus of forty selected voices from the Tabernacle choir. In the meantime Edna was pursuing a college course, at the University of Utah, where she took her A. B. In a line of study intended to prepare her for literary work, toward which she always had a leaning, second only to that for music. In addition to pipe organ, she continued study of piano and harmony with Professor Daynes and Arthur Shepherd, amplifying this work later by completing courses in normal piano, organ, harmony and composition with the Siegel-Myers correspondence school of music at Chicago. She also completed Dr. J. Berg Esennein's course in short-story writing, given by the home correspondence school, of Springfield, Massachusetts and has contributed stories and verse to local Church magazines. After Professor Daynes' resignation, as Tabernacle organist, his pupil-assistant studied organ with the late Professor Thomas Radcliffe at the First Congregational church and remained under his instruction until his death, about three years later. When the new Salt Lake stake was organized she was appointed stake organist which position she held simultaneously with those of organist of the 16th ward and of the General Roard of the Relief Society, which latter position she still holds. From the age of ten up to the present, Miss Coray has continuously served her Church as organist, or piano accompanist, and has used her talents exclusively under the auspices of the L. D. S. Church, in accordance with her parents' ideals; and she says that if she were to adopt a personal slogan it would be the advice once given her by her beloved master, Professor Radcliffe: "If you regard your music as a part of your worship of the Almighty, then the best you have is none too good for such service." Miss Coray is an artist, musician, and possesses fine literary powers which lack only a certain self-confidence for complete development. She with Mrs. Edward are distinct additions to the conferences of our Society and a great benefit and blessing in the position they occupy.
Out of the