[Vol22 | November 1935 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Spiritual Growth Through the Relief Society Course of Study]

SPIRITUAL GROWTH THROUGH THE RELIEF SOCIETY COURSE 685
Greater faith is built through knowledge, but belief is incomplete unless merged into action, so yours is the opportunity to stimulate women to read, to think, and to apply in their lives the truths which they believe; to establish ideals which will hold them true, believing with Carl Schurz: "Ideals are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the sea-faring man on the desert of water, you choose them as your guides, and following them, you reach your destiny." OF STUDY M. LYNN BENNION Member of General Board, Deseret Sunday School Union MAZZINI, the Italian Philosopher, defined democracy as "The progress of all, through all, under the leadership of the wisest and best." I believe this definition is applicable to the Church. During 1934 there were 84,042 officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations. There were 15,167
Relief Society officers, exclusive of Visiting Teachers.
Practically every Latter-day Saint has an opportunity to lead in some capacity, and follow in many capacities.
This mass participation in spiritual activity is the key to spiritual development.
Truly it is the progress of all, through all, under the leadership of the wisest and best. I was greatly impressed when I read of the purpose in founding the Relief Society. A broader, more comprehensive foundation for spirituality can scarcely be imagined than the goal set for you by the founders of this great organization nearly a century ago.
They are: "To manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality; to care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gospel." Spiritual Growth through the Study of Social Service: To develop spirituality through the promotion of human welfare is your primary aim.
That aim is basic in our religion, and the Relief Society has led the way. The task of ministering to the needs of people demands a loving heart and a high order of intelligence.
Even in these strenuous times people need spiritual food, intellectual stimulus, far worse than they need bread. The Relief Society has not been content to pass out charity, but has sought, through a Social Service course of study, to understand the complex problems inherent in health, education, sani686 tation, poverty, crime, child welfare and personality development.
Christ gives us a picture of the ideal social welfare case worker. The Good Samaritan knew what needed to be done for the man in need, and he did it. I enjoy trying to read into Bible characters more than is apparent from the brief account given. The Good Samaritan was a student of human nature and also a lover of mankind. His heart and mind were prepared for this service. He had rendered already great services to many and through that experience was a finely developed personality.
This is why he rendered such intelligent and loving service in the Bible story. Do not be discouraged over the slowness of your own development.
Spiritual development is usually a slow, gradual progress. It is like the ear of corn which produced first the blade, then the ear, then the corn in the ear.
Psychologists have discovered a great weakness in much of our educational practice. We learn all about the theory of something, but it does not influence our conduct, and because there is no activity or practice in what is studied there is no growth. One writer said: "Character as an intelligent, effective and dependable way of life, will result not from talking about character, but from actual experience in living the good life." It is far better to pray for and visit the sick than to merely define religion in terms of visiting the sick. The great question in my mind, as I have worked with young people in the Church, is: 'Will the facts they learn about Church history and doctrine influence their behavior and conduct." I more and more believe that we must see that they have actual experience in being honest, truthful, cooperative, and so forth. So RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE we are stressing pupil activity through problems and projects. Let the child learn to do by doing. It is the application of knowledge for the spiritual welfare of man that constitutes the "Mormon'" ideal of education. Now I believe the Relief Society is ahead of us in this program. You have had much of the actual work of relieving the poor, caring for the sick, clothing the naked. You have met the actual problems, and it is in the solution of problem that the highest spiritual growth lies. It calls for the best that is in you and it makes you thoughtful of the ills of mankind.
Furthermore nothing is more provoking of hard mental effort than concrete problems to solve. I used to wonder how it was that missionaries developed so rapidly. You know the answer.
They have problems to solve. It may be to make clear a principle of the Gospel to a person, or to soften another man's heart.
These problems drive the missionary to study and to his prayers. He fills up his mind and heart and then he gives, and O, how he does grow! One of the most stirring incidents in Scripture is Moses pleading with God to spare backsliding Israel, offering to efface himself if only they may be spared.
When he came back from his communion he so radiated the spiritual life that he had to cover his face for the Israelites could not abide his presence. I see in the Social Service work of the Relief Society the very essence of "pure religion."
Those who give most will grow most and live most abundantly. Spiritual Growth through the Study of Literature: "All that mankind has done, thought, gained or been; it is lying as in magic preserRELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE vation in the pages of Books."— Carlyle. "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study, and also by faith." Brigham Young grasped the significance of that commandment. "I want to have schools," he said, "to entertain the minds of the people and draw them out to learn the arts and sciences." "We should be," President Young said, "a people of profound learning pertaining to the things of the world.
Every accomplishment, every political grace, every useful attainment in mathematics, music, and in all science and literature belong to the Saints, and they should avail themselves as expeditiously as possible of the wealth of knowledge the sciences offer to every diligent and persevering scholar." He defined education succinctly when he said before the University of Deseret Board of Regents: "Education is the power to think clearly, the power to act well in the world's work, and the power to appreciate life." The best way I know to appreciate life is to contact life in the flesh, or from the pages of literature.
During the last few years my reading hours as a student have been crowded into the books of the past. I often found myself hungry for the books of life, and I went to them to find courage, strength and faith to renew my labors.
There is nothing more stimulating in all this world than contact with a truly great personality. You just cannot help being lifted by such people.
Blessed are those who receive many such contacts in person or from the pages of literature, for they shall grow spiritually thereby.
Longfellow was asked by a student at Harvard University, "How is it, Mr. Longfellow, that after all these years of teaching you remain 687 so fresh in your point of view, and so stimulating?" The wise old teacher pointed to a peach orchard through the window, and said, "You see some of those trees are young, and some are old. The old ones grow enough new wood each year to produce beautiful fragrant blossoms. I try to read and study enough to keep alive mentally."
Another great teacher, said, "I want my students to drink from a running stream and not a stagnant pool." We are all teachers in this Church of ours. One of the surest guarantees that your husband, your children, your friends will grow spiritually is that you yourself are expanding in the good life.
Think of the power Christ had to stimulate people. "One half of my goods I give to the poor," said Zaccheus, the mercenary little tax collector, in response to the appeal of the Master, "and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.' What a glorious spiritual response to a superb teacher and a great Personality. Richard C. Cabot, scholar, teacher of ethics at Harvard University, and fine Christian, said: "I caught my religion by contagion through contact with people."
This man has contacted the great and noble of all ages through the pages of literature. He mentioned also his indebtedness to two living people—Dr. Grenfell, physician, who left the comforts of a London home to serve the Eskimos on the bleak coasts of Labrador. "When I was with Grenfell," said Dr. Cabot, "Jesus Christ seemed not more than five feet away." The other person who touched and melted Cabot was Jane Addams, that good woman of great sympathy and understanding, who sought to serve others. I saw this noble woman receive the honorary degree of Dr. of 688.
Laws at the University of California last spring. Her face was radiant with spirituality.
Spiritual experience had brought her a rich development.
Love has been defined as "The energy of a steadfast good will bent on creating fellowship." Jane Addams was filled with this energy. It led her day and night through the slums of Chicago seeking to make fellowship with humanity. No one can estimate the stimulus of spiritual growth that will come to you through your literary course of study. Its influence will be felt in your home and in your communities. A teacher of literature recently asked a visiting mother at school, "In what college did you study literature?" The mother replied, "I received my training through the Relief Society." We can agree with Charles Kingsley, who said: "Except a living man, there is nothing more wonderful than a book, a message from human souls whom we never saw, who lived perhaps thousands of miles away— they speak to us, amuse us, inspire us, teach us, open their hearts to us as a brother.
Before leaving the subject of literature, I wish to recommend a book that every mother will love to read— Ella Lyman Cabot's The Seven Ages of Childhood.
This book will give you greater insight, understanding and patience with children. Spiritual Growth through the Study of Theology: The most important channel for spiritual growth offered Relief Society members is through the study of theology.
Perhaps the most valuable lesson gained from this study is the knowledge that we are the children of God, made in His image, having His attributes in embryo and destined to become like Him.
This definition of m