[Vol22 | November 1935 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]

Work and Business ACCORDING to the newspapers and magazines knitting is very much in vogue. In fact it is quite as popular, as during: the war. What more pleasant and profitable pastime could there be for the long winter evenings while listening to the radio? See page 67 of Handicraft for Everywoman for explanations of the knitting process. Refer to page 185 for sources of more instructions in Knitting and Crochet. For thrifty Christmas Gifts suggestions see page 135. 

  CONSUMER'S PROBLEMS Lesson 3. BUDGETING. "Just live within your income, for There's always this about it, You'll have to live within it, or Some day you'll live without it." TO distinguish between those things that yield merely transitory pleasure and those that furnish enduring satisfaction requires careful analysis, but it is worthwhile. This is the basic principle in budget making whether applied to money, time or energy. A budget is essentially a financial plan applied to meet the needs of a family or of an individual. To apply business methods consistently and intelligently the housewife needs to know the economic condition in her own community. So long as families and individuals have different goals and ambitions, so long as their standards of living differ, their methods of spending will vary?since spending is but a means of achieving what they have decided is most worthwhile in life. Division of income gives general guides to be used as bases in planning expenditures to meet particular needs. They must be adapted. The budget is related to the whole scheme of living. Right social attitudes need to be created which will recognize the importance of economic security and a decent living wage, for no one can budget to her satisfaction on an unstable or inadequate income. For the purpose of character and personality building, every man, woman and child should have an allowance to spend according to his or her ideals. Proper guidance may be necessary. Some advantages of budget: 1. Decreases waste. 2. Increases capacity to buy wisely. 3. Removes temptation to buy spasmodically. 4. Rids one of feeling of inadequacy. 5. Eliminates competition in family and other groups. 6. Safeguards against present day super salesmanship. 7. Educates in value and use of money. 8. Gives better goods and service. 9. Overcomes lack of system of orderliness. 10. Lessens tendency to tolerate the mediocre and tawdry whether in tangible things or in social relationships. Choice between Difficulties: 1. No opportunity to budget. 2. Dividing money between different needs. 3. Living within budget. 4. Knowledge of values. 5. Choosing the most important thing. 6. Lack of knowledge of business arithmetic. Some reasons why women do not budget: 1. Too small or no regular income. 2. Over confidence in ability to manage without plan. 3. Not interested. 4. Lack of ingenuity.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 5.
Underestimate of education and ability to follow plan.
Questions and Topics for Discussion 1.
What is a budget and how does it differ from keeping accounts? 2. Why is it economically important to use one? 719 3.
Discuss other vital points to consider in making a budget. 4. How do you divide your income and which item do you consider of most importance? Why? 5.
Divide the dollar spent for food so it will be practical, nutritional and economical and give reasons for your division.