[Vol22 | November 1935 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Keepsakes for the Hoggan]
The laborer who turns the soil with gladness, who feels the comforting touch of the soft earth under his feet,-and catches
KEEPSAKES FOR THE TREASURE CHEST OF LIFE 681 with pleasure the wholesome fresh odor from the new furrows, is getting more than bread from the soil. His life is a struggle with the elements, the conquest of which gives him keen delight.
There is satisfaction in mastering the things we undertake to do.
There is a joy in any performance that we can execute with ease and accuracy. To efficiently complete a task, to finish every least detail as perfectly as it is possible for us to do it, gives us confidence in our ability to meet life. Orison Swett Marden says: "Every half-done or slovenly job that goes out of your hands leaves its trace of demoralization behind.
There is an indescribable superiority added to the character and fiber of the man who always and everywhere, puts quality into his work." "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."—Gen. 3:19. "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God."— Matt. 4:4.
Thus do the Scriptures signify that man requires spiritual as well as temporal sustenance. The work that is the easiest or the pleasantest to perform, is not always the most desirable.
Work that we love, work that is an answer to the cry of our inmost being, is the labor that we can perform under the most trying conditions. The assurance that we are in the hands of destiny, that we are filling the measure of our creation, brings a deeper joy and satisfaction to our souls than any material wage could ever supply. To feel each day that we are developing strength and power; that we are living up to the fulness of our best possibilities; doing the biggest thing that we are capable of doing; this is high romance, this is life. Stuart Sherman, in Shaping Men and Women, tells us that a desire for truth and self-realization are two of the greatest incentives in life. "If you haven't any romance in your life," says he, "it's a failure.
Romance is the deep cry which excites you to your best and utmost.
Romance is whatever calls you out of your languor and indifference and half-heartedness—and uses you, consumes you, adequately—so that all the accumulated material of your life—your wisdom, your experience —takes fire, and gives off light, heat, warmth, and the beauty and red wings of flame." IN purchasing life, time is the medium of exchange. "You have to live on this twenty-four hours of daily time," says Arnold Bennett. "Out of it you have to spin health, pleasure, money, content, respect, and the evolution of your immortal soul. Its right use is a matter of the highest urgency. For we want to live, not merely exist or muddle through." In the unsettled economic condition of today, numberless men and women are left with much free time on their hands.
They may choose whether they will loiter it away, bitterly deploring the mismanagement of the world, that leaves them without lucrative work; or, whether they will use it for improving themselves mentally and spiritually; that they may be better prepared to meet the changing conditions of life.
There are spendthrifts of time, who never learn the value of an hour; who never realize that spare moments can be put to a wise use.
Time is not lost if it has added health and strength to our bodies, or growth and development to our souls; if it has brought permanent beautiful things into our lives; or has ad682 vanced us a little nearer toward the goal we are seeking to reach.
Just as pennies grow into dollars, so do minutes grow into hours. And both may be conserved to our benefit and happiness. "Every day! In those two words lies the secret of all attainment," said Dr. Crane. "Every day!
That is the road to perfection.
Almost everybody wastes enough hours in ten years to get a doctor's degree in any university. No force is so great in any man as the stored-up power of what he has been doing every day." SOME one has recently spoken of the vast army of college graduates as "the lost generation."
After their earnest effort to prepare themselves for positions of trust and responsibility, there is no opening for them.
Their services are not in demand. And yet, is not the man with a trained mind and a skilled hand better prepared to serve humanity than the one less richly endowed? Is not his soul attuned to higher appreciation and deeper joy than the one lacking these accomplishments?
