Her Prophecy and its Fulfilment.

By Lucy May Green.

When the postman brought that long official looking envelope addressed to Lieut. Paul Brown, the mother knew intuitively that these were his marching orders. "You will join your regiment at once, and thence proceed to the front." There were only four days left of his furlough. Could she let him go, her first born, her hope and pride? Since the death of his father, two years before, all her thoughts had been centered on her only son. He was the child of many prayers. His seven sisters were all his willing subjects, and they had so willingly sacrificed most of their own pleasures that he might finish college and then specialize in medicine.

The weeks he had spent last summer at the officers' training camp were just "for fun, mother dear," he had said laughingly, "and to gain a little military experience." Now war was declared, and she must give her son to her country, for the noble work of saving the wounded. "I must be brave and cheerful," she thought, as she struggled with her tears, bowing in humility in her secret chamber for strength according to her day. Some of the promises of Paul's patriarchal blessing rang through his mother's mind, as she packed his grips, and arranged his books and clothing. "You shall do a wonderful missionary work in the world and you shall obtain a great record of your ancestors many of whom shall be redeemed through your faithful labors." So the blessing ran. Now he would go to the front and might be killed—might never return! Oh, she was breaking down again. "Why, mother dear, alone and in tears," said a cheery voice, as a step sounded on the porch. Paul came into the room. His broad shoulders and deep grey eyes were full of purpose. "I go on the 6th. Won't it be a great experience for me? I shall return a famous surgeon," he said calmly. "Yes," she replied "if" "If what?" asked Paul, "why, of course. I shall return. You know I have a mission to perform, and, mother dear, I know I have a mission to perform, and, mother dear, I know I shall be all right, for I have tried to do right, and I believe my promised blessings will be realized." "My son," said Mary, rising with a strange sense of exalta- HER PROPHECY AND ITS FULFILMENT. 617 tion in her heart, "I feel that you will go in peace, that our prayers shall be answered and you shall return in safety, bringing with you"—"Bringing what, mother?" "Honor, and perhaps you will find souls to save as well as bodies to heal—and—and—perhaps a wife"—"Why, mother, what a prophecy," laughed the boy. "You—you forget, I am going to war, if not to fight, still I shall be near the battle front." "God moves in a mysterious way, Paul," she answered, "and His purposes will be fulfilled if you will keep humble before Him. Remember your prayers, cherish your virtues as your life, keep the Word of Wisdom, and live from day to day as His servant." ********* Extract of letter from Paul Brown to his mother: S. S. Cumberwell. "We embarked this morning and shall sail at high tide this afternoon. Words can scarcely express my feelings as I think over the events of the last few days. First my call, then your strange prophecy (I wonder if it will be fulfilled?), then the happy day spent in the House of the Lord and the many blessings received there. I know I will be all right, mother dear. I feel so safe with such wonderful promises "Yours, sealed on my head. I am proud, proud of the bravest little mother in the world. "Paul." The sea voyage was uneventful. Paul's kindly manners endeared him to the nurses and orderlies of the hospital unit to which he was attached. Arriving at Portsmouth, they received orders to entrain at once for Liverpool, and proceed for the front Somewhere In France, their real destination known only to the commanding officer in charge. Rain, rain, leaden skies, and fog. Paul wondered if this were indeed England, his father's home country, as the train rushed along through the midlands, through smoky factory towns and sodden country villages. As they reached Welton, a small country town of some twenty thousand inhabitants, a short stop occurred while some trifling repairs were made to the engine, and the soldiers gladly accepted the brief break in their journey as an excuse for a walk and a meal. Paul visited a small tavern near by, where light refreshments were served free to the soldiers, by some of the local workers of the Ambulance Corps, girls and young women who were gladly doing "their bit" to help their country in its hour of need. A tiny American flag worn as a brooch by one of the work- 618 . ers attracted Paul's attention, and he found himself gazing into the dark blue eyes and sweet flushed face of an English girl wearing the white cap, apron and insignia of a Red Cross nurse. Her face had a familiar look. "Are you from America, sir?" she enquired. "Yes," returned Paul smiling, "that is my home.

Pardon me, but why are you, an English girl, wearing our flag?" "Because, some day when the war is over, I have a hope, a great desire that it may be my flag, too," she replied, simply, flushing deeply as the young American's eyes looked deep into hers. The signal for return was sounded; but in the days which followed, Paul's thoughts often strayed to the little tavern, and the face of the English nurse came to him in dreams wound around with an American flag, always with a feeling that he had known her in the long ago.

Somewhere in France! For two long months the battle had raged incessantly. In their little hospital established in the ruins of an old monastery at the rear of the battle front, the doctors had scarcely had food. Paul had been at the operating table for uncounted weeks with no rest, and for many hours, centuries it had seemed. Wearily he stumbled into his tiny cell, and there fell upon the straw. "Oh Father, give me courage and strength," he murmured as his eyes closed and he sank into fitful slumber.

A light tap awakened him, and he opened his door to find a private soldier standing at salute. "Excuse me for coming at such a late hour, sir," the soldier explained, "but you see we have been in the front trenches for two days. Now we are sent to the rear for a little rest and I and three of my mates thought—"

"Thought what?" asked Paul, dazedly; "come in and sit while you tell your story," he said kindly as he closed the door.

"Well," continued the soldier, "we have been watching you and we have decided that you are one of our faith, that you belong to our people. You don't use tobacco nor liquor, you let all this camp deviltry alone—are you not a Latter-day Saint, sir?"

"Yes," said Paul with a smile. "I am, and am proud to meet you, my brother, but how on earth you guessed it is more than I can imagine."

The soldier's eyes glistened as he proffered his next request. "We are going to hold a little meeting in one of the dugouts tomorrow morning and we want you to come and join us, as we go back to the danger of the trenches tomorrow. We would like to bear our testimony and partake of the Sacrament together."

Paul arose and quietly followed his companion and joined the three who were so anxiously waiting in the dugout and there was a time of rejoicing that night. For three hours the next day the voice of testimony was heard. One other officer was present, a young aviator from Canada, who related many wonderful experiences he had undergone in the air, and how he had been preserved from death. After partaking of the Sacrament the brothers separated with a firm handclasp.

That afternoon a service had been appointed to be held by a neighboring cure in the little chapel attached to the monastery. The soldiers gathered at the appointed hour and waited, but no priest came. Eagerly they watched for his arrival, but in vain. Paul looking over the audience, caught the pleading eyes of one of his brethren. A sudden strength came to him, and he walked down the aisle and mounted the pulpit. Words of comfort and encouragement fell from his lips, as for over an hour he pleaded with his hearers to live clean lives, keep their honor bright, and be worthy of their dear ones at home who were so anxiously awaiting their return.

A bursting shell brought the gathering to an abrupt close and for hours Dr. Brown was busy alleviating suffering and later officiated as chaplain at the burial of the dead. The months fiercely passed, time was unmeasured. One day, or month, or year, an exploding shell sent a fragment into the skull of the young surgeon and he fell forward mercifully unconscious.

The throb, throb, of an engine, then the tossing of a boat, afterwards oblivion.

When Paul awakened, a voice was singing, a sweet contralto voice. Did it belong to a blue-eyed girl with rosy cheeks, wrapped in an American flag? It was strangely familiar and so was the song she was singing, "O Zion, dear Zion, home of the free, My own mountain home, unto thee I have come, All my fond hopes are centered in thee." As Paul opened his eyes the singer was leaving the room.

"Where am I, and who was singing?" he asked the nurse who bent over his bed.

"You are safe with your friends in England," replied the nurse.

"The singer is one of the relief nurses from the town nearby. She is about to leave for America," 620 . Paul struggled to rise and dropped back into oblivion as he learned thus for the first time of his fractured skull. His strength came gradually with nourishing food and thoughtful attention. He found that he was quartered at Knoston Hall, the home of the Arkwright family for many generations which had now been turned over by its patriotic owner to the country to be used as a home for wounded soldiers. It was now June, and the beauties of nature in England were at their best. In the hedgerows the pink and white hawthorn was fast fading, its place being taken by the wild roses and honeysuckle. In the meadows the clover was in bloom and the bees gathered the honey from the many flowers. A sense of peace and rest hung over all in sharp contrast to the cruel inferno, Dr. Paul had witnessed "Somewhere In France." Shattered health relieved him for a time of military duty; he was advised to return to America as soon as his health would permit. Honor he had won, and before returning he resolved to fulfill his patriarchal prophecy. Sometimes he recalled that blue-eyed girl. Her voice called him. Her eyes looking deep into his. Her words, "If the Lord wills," spoken under her breath, had been caught by him and he determined to find her. It was his last day in the private hospital. "Honorable discharge," echoed a voice, and turning his bandaged head, Paul found himself looking into the sweet face of the subject of his thoughts. "Who are you?" he inquired eagerly. "Haven't I met you before? I seem to know you well." "My name is Mavis Averil," she replied quietly, "and what is yours?" "I am Major Paul Brown of Utah, U. S. A." "Utah," she said, catching her breath. "Why, that is where my mother and I are going in a month." "Sing for me, Miss Averil, that song of Zion. It was the first thing I heard in England, and I thought I was in heaven and heard an angel singing." "A very earthly angel, I am afraid," said the happy girl as she lifted her voice in response to his appeal. The next week a carriage called at Knoston Hall and Major Brown bade farewell to his kind host and many friends and he left for Liverpool. But he did not go alone. He had written to the Church offices there to see if berths could be engaged for the Averil family, for Paul resolved to take Mavis home with him. That afternoon before leaving, the lovers took a long walk through the fields and rested in a little churchyard. Paul's attention was attracted to a large tombstone with a HER PROPHECY AND ITS FULFILMENT. Greek Cross and a bunch of keys inscribed above, and the name Brown in large letters. He read the inscription, Grafton Brown. Born 1701. Died 1786. "Why, Mavis," he explained, "my grandfather's name was Grafton Brown, but he came from a place called Harrowden." "This is Harrowden Parish," replied Mavis, "and father's old mother lives here. Come, and we will visit her." And they hastened. As they left the little parish that evening they were both strangely silent. Paul was almost overcome with the priceless value of the clue which the old relative of Mavis that afternoon had placed in his hands. He alone knew of the fulfillment of the patriarchal blessing sealed on his head, and of the wonderful blessings in store for his departed ancestors through his ministrations and those of Mavis, for he knew that she would help him in that beautiful vicarious work. The search for his ancestors, begun so strangely, might well continue through his whole life. He had secured the first key to that knowledge. Dr. Paul Brown's voice had been heard in the trenches spreading gospel truths, in the chapel, in the forest, in the hospitals and convalescent home, also in the meeting of the church in Welton, his testimony had led many to investigate the truth. Today he had received in such wonderful manner, record of his dead, and he had won his beautiful Mavis. All that remained was his journey home, and his wedding day. With the morning dawn came the news that berths could be obtained for the Averils on the Carania, and in a few days the little party sailed for home, for home it seemed indeed to all of them. ********* A happy commotion filled the air at the Brown home in Eston; brothers and sisters were gathered together at the old place, for Paul was coming home.

A telegram had been received a few days before stating that Major Paul Brown had been granted an honorable discharge from the army and had been specially mentioned in the dispatches for bravery. Mother Brown, a little grayer than of yore, went about with a smiling, expectant air. Her boy was coming, that was enough. She would be content just to have him home again safely. Her reverie was disturbed by a gay burst of music from the piano, where her oldest grandson was pounding out, "See the Conquering Hero Comes." A rush up the steps and her boy was enfolded in her arms. Smiling through her tears she turned to greet a sweet, blue-eyed girl who accompanied him. 

"My future wife, and my mother, the two sweetest and dearest women in the world," Paul said. "Mother, dear, your prayers are answered. I am safely home again. I have filled my mission, obtained a portion of the desired records of our forefathers, and soon at the Holy Temple I will receive my darling wife. I have brought her for I know you will welcome us all home and her family as well." What a joyful reunion was held at the Brown home that evening as the story was unfolded bit by bit and the Averils were welcomed and taken care of by the various members of the family. Before retiring for the night the united family joined in singing the beautiful song of Zion, now doubly dear to Paul and Mavis; and, as she kissed her children goodnight, Mother Brown solemnly said truly, "God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform." "Father, I thank Thee for all Thy mercies."

Mark Twain Observations. These wisdoms are for the luring of youth toward high moral altitudes. The author did not gather them from practice, but from observation. To be good is noble, but to show others how to be good is nobler and no trouble. When in doubt, tell the truth. It is easier to stay out than get out. Hunger is the handmaid of genius. Man is the only animal that blushes or needs to. It is your human environment that makes climate. Wrinkles should merely indicate where smiles have been. We ought never to do wrong when people are looking. Nothing is so ignorant as a man's left hand, except a lady's watch. Every one is a moon, and has a dark side which he never shows to anybody.