Guide Lessons.

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in December.

NEW TESTAMENT TIMES. (Reading: Matthew, Chapters 5, 6, 7.)

If you were an inmate of your Eastern home, you would become familiar with the domestic work of your mother. "With willing hands," as they said in those days, she wielded the distaff and the spindle. The spindle, which she might carry about with her, was a small instrument. "It consisted of a smooth, wooden pin, or stem, about the size and shape of a long wooden pen holder. This was inserted at its thick end into a hole of a hemispherical 'top' or whorl, which was the exact shape of the crown of a small mushroom. It was this top which the English translation calls 'distaff.' A small brass hook, fastened to the end of the stem which protruded slightly above the whorl, completed the spindle." You watched her interestedly as she wound some wool on a small wooden frame, into which she inserted her left hand, holding it with her palm next the thumb, so that all her fingers would be left free; as she fastened the hook of the spindle to the bunch of wool, and twirled the spindle swiftly at its lower end, between the thumb and the middle finger of the right hand, drawing the thread deftly with the fingers of both hands; as, when the twisted thread was about the length of her arm, she unhooked it without breaking it off, wound it on the stem of the spindle just below the whorl, and then fastened it to the hook close to the raw material continuing these operations till the bunch of wool was converted into a spindle of thread. You would know also that all the clothes worn by your father, not to speak of your own and your mother's, were made at home. You would be aware, doubtless, that your mother's reputation for diligence and loving care as a wife would be made by the men, including your father, who sat in the market-place or "at the gates of the city among the elders of the land," telling tales and parables, and discussing matters of public interest; and that your father, if his clothes were neat in appearance, would praise his wife "as a costly jewel." Nor would you be ignorant of the fact that all the grinding of meal and flour was done at home by your mother. The jadoos, or grinder, which was most probably shared by one or two other families related to you, consisted "of two round stones an upper and a nether from eighteen to twenty inches in diameter, and about four inches in thickness. It was a portable article. The two stones were held together by a wooden pin which was securely fastened in the center of the nether stone, and passed through a funnel-shaped hole in the center of the upper stone. A wooden handle was inserted near the outer edge of the upper stone." When your mother had only a small quantity of wheat to grind, she operated this mill alone, but when she had a large quantity to grind or when she wished to turn drudgery into pleasant work, she invited another woman to join her at the task.

Perhaps you would not have been very much worried over the fact, but it would be a fact none the less, that your being a girl instead of a boy made a great difference so far as your education was concerned. Your brother, as already stated, would not only have been a little better received than you on coming into the world, but would receive mental and cultural education to the extent of the family purse. You on your part would receive little of this, other than what you might absorb in your associations with the members of your family and the neighbors. Your brother, if the family could afford it, might even have a private tutor. But, after all, you would not be very likely to miss it, not knowing what it was for a girl to be educated. The saying of Shakespeare would apply in your case, "Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise." At eleven or twelve years of age you would begin to wear a heavy veil such a one as would completely hide your face. Without this veil you would never, after marriage, appear in public. You would probably be married, if you were married at all, before twenty. After this age you would be everywhere accounted an old maid. The man you married you might never have seen before, let alone met him. The engagement and all the preliminaries for marriage would have been attended to by your parents, most likely by your father. Prior to the nuptials there would have been nothing in the form of a courtship, therefore, as with us modern Westerners. In the East, to this very day, there is no "going out with a fellow." Your parents and the parents of the young man whom you were expected to marry would meet for the arrangements. Most likely your father, instead of giving a dowry, would ask one. If he did not, like Jacob's father-in-law, the engagement might last a whole year, during which you would not meet your affianced. And what is more, the engagement would be as binding as a marriage, and could be annulled only by the formalities of a divorce. "But suppose you did not like each other?" That would not matter. The probability is as great that you would be happy as it is under our own system where the young people not only know each other but have the matter of choice in their own hands. In both the East and the West the perfectly happy and the perfectly unhappy marriages are rare. In both hemispheres the large majority of married people soon learn that domestic happiness depends in no small measure on adherence to the well-known rule: "In essentials unity: in non-essentials liberty in all things charity." On the whole the reason for this arrangement of marriage which prevailed in the Hebrew commonwealth and in the East generally arose out of the lack of education in the woman and the unstable conditions of the people, socially and politically. These limitations were especially narrow in the case of 'maidens,' or 'virgins;' that is, unmarried women. They were not supposed to participate in social functions as their mothers did, nor to form friendships with young men, even among their own relatives. The contracting of marriage was not so much an individual as a community affair. The whole purpose in your marriage would be, not to have a "soul-mate" nor yet to secure for you a provider, but to give you the right properly to become a mother of children, or, strictly speaking, a "mother of men." The Jewish woman was known only as a wife and mother, the home-builder. The controversy implied in the phrase, "Woman's place is the home," could excite no dispute in the East. That place was settled once for all by the general sentiment of the community. Marriage was a religious union. The highest and most sacred duty of the husband and wife was to beget many children, bring them up "in the fear of the Lord," and be such a good example to them, as to enable them to live a pious life, and to transmit their good heritage to the unborn generations. As a married woman you would have a sort of emancipation. You would assume a place of honor in the community. Contrary to the impression that prevails pretty generally today with respect to the status of woman among the ancient Hebrews, you would, in the home, be the equal of your husband in every respect.

"God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him: male and female created he them" would be understood to apply to you as well as to your husband. So, too, would the sayings of Paul the apostle, which he obtained as much from his Old Testament training as from Christianity, although they were uttered later than the time of Elizabeth and Mary: "There is neither male nor female: for we are all one in Christ," and "The wife hath not power over her own body, but the husband; and likewise also the husband hath not power over his own body, but the wife." The same single standard of morality would be required of both. Infidelity to the marriage vow would be punished in the husband as in the wife. So they were equal there. Then again the children would be required to obey you as well as their father. The law of Moses is explicit in this respect, in the case of the rebellious son who will not "obey the voice of father or the voice of his mother." To be sure there would be some restrictions on you. You would be bound down to the veil, for instance, you would not be expected to talk much in the presence of men, and the field of your endeavor would be confined to the home. But these and other like limitations would be imposed upon you not because men wished to make a slave of you but because they wished to protect you. For we must remember that these restrictions arose out of conditions of insecurity, social and political, when it was more or less common to steal women. And "the duty to protect always carries with it the right to discipline," as when the strong men of a clan protect, and in some respect subject, the weaker men who need protection. In a word, finally, if you were living in Palestine at the time of Elizabeth and Mary, you would be expected to try to reach the ideal embodied in the following description in Proverbs: "Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands. She is like the merchant's ships: she bringeth her food from afar. She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field, and buyeth it; with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night."

1. Describe the work of the spindle in those days.
2. Who made the men's clothes? Why was this the case?
3. Tell of the education of children.
4. How did a young girl marry then?
5. How do you account for this arrangement of the marriage problem? Which is the better, theirs or ours? Why?
6. What was the purpose of marriage then? What is the purpose now?
7. What was the status of the married woman then? Were there any restrictions on her? What were they? Is there any justification for these?
8. Judging by the passage quoted from Proverbs, what was the ideal woman of the ancient Hebrews? Give details one by one.
9. What is the ideal woman today among the Latter-day Saints? Among the world? Compare and contrast the three ideals.

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in December.

LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in December.

It is necessary for the student who wishes to become acquainted with the tribes of the earth, as they descended from Father Adam, to review succinctly the historical chronology as given in the Bible, with a little reference to the Book of Mormon and Pearl of Great Price. It is our purpose to frame an historical and genealogical ladder which shall reach from our present times back to Father Adam. We have given only the tables and outlines of sacred history in this lesson. The student and teacher should refer to the Bible to substantiate and further illustrate the matter provided in this lesson. Such of our Societies as purchased Smith's Old Testament History will find much assistance briefly prepared in that excellent book.

We suggest, however, that too much time be not spent upon this lesson, unless the students care to meet once a week in the evening, as they already do in some of our stakes and wards, to supplement the study which we offer here as a monthly lesson.

Introductory.

(a) Malachi 4:5. "Behold I will send you Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord."

(b) "And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers; if it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming." (As quoted by the Angel Moroni to the Prophet Joseph Smith.)

650 .

Importance of this work.

(b) An unbroken chain made by saviors upon Mt. Zion who labor in temples.

(c) St. John 20:12. "The books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the Book of Life; and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works."

(d) Importance of keeping records accurately. (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 128:8.

(e) Vicarious work. Not a modern work.

History. A demonic Dispensation.

(a) Adam inspired to read and write taught children.

(b) Enoch seventh century called to preach vision genealogies. (Slow of speech.) (See Pearl of Great Price.)

(c) Methuselah Enoch's son left on earth to fulfill promise.

(d) Noah flood three sons and families saved.

(e) Peleg earth divided to the families of the sons of Noah after their generations, in their nations.

(f) Tower of Babel confusion of tongues. (See Genesis, chapter eleven.)

(g) Jared and those with him not confused, led to a promised land barges record made. (See Book of Ether, B. of M.)

Hebrew Dispensation.

(a) Abram or Abraham: promise to him.

(b) Isaac (Rebecca). Ishmael (Hagar). Descendants: Hebrews from Isaac; Arabs and Edomites from Ishmael.

(c) Midian, son of Keturah. Father of Midianites.

(d) Lot, father of Moabites and Ammonites.

(e) Jacob (Israel): Leah and Rachel, twelve sons.

(f) Esau, father of Edomites.

(g) Joseph; his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh.

Israel in Egypt. Seventy persons went down to Egypt in Joseph's day; nearly three million returned 400 years after under Moses. Retained their own manners, language, religion and patriarchal government, but were in bondage.

Religions of the Ancient World.

1. Monotheism belief in one God.

2. Polytheism belief in many gods.

3. Pantheism nature as the supreme being. (A circle.)

GUIDE LESSONS. Mosaic Dispensation.

(a) Moses the law-giver, slow of speech. Tablets of stone. Gave genealogies of people in Numbers.

(b) Deliverance Land of Canaan.

(c) Joshua governed 25 years. Inheritance by lot.

(d) Levites.

(e) Fifteen judges. Samuel the last.

(f) Three kings Saul, David and Solomon.

(g) Kingdom of Israel divided, B. C. 975: Judah (Rehoboam), Judah and Benjamin; Israel (Jeroboam), ten tribes.

(h) Revolt of the Ten Tribes.

(i) Kingdom of Israel; nine different dynasties; nineteen kings; 225 years.

(j) Shalmanezer, king of Assyria, took Israel captive (200,000), ending the national history of the Ten Tribes. B. C.

(k) Kingdom of Judah survived Israel 135 years, having but one dynasty and 20 kings.

The Jewish Captivity.

(a) King Zedekiah, the last king of Judah, ascended the throne 597 B. C.

(b) Zedekiah carried captive to Babylon, 589 B. C. Sons slain; eyes put out. Jerusalem taken. Temple burned. People taken to Babylon. Lehi left Jerusalem during Zedekiah's reign before captivity.

(c) Colony in Chaldea; comforted in captivity by the prophets; chastised for their disobedience and transgressions.

(d) During captivity Babylonian Empire overthrown by Medo-Persian Empire, 538 B. C. Media, descendants of Madai, son of Japheth; Persia, Aryans, akin to the Medes.

(e) Cyrus found Jews an oppressed race in whose religion he discovered a considerable resemblance to his own. (Zoroaster) (Daniel 43:36). Permitted Ezra and Nehemiah to return to Jerusalem with a large concourse.

(f) Temple rebuilt. 521-516-515; dedicated.

(g) Samaritans, descendants of the original Ten Tribes, mixed later by frequent intermarriage with the heathen nations.

(h) Ahasuerus (Xerxes), a Persian, married Esther 473 B. C.

(i) Ezra led back another colony to Jerusalem 458 B. C. Stopped all intermarriages with other nations.

(j) Ezra and Nehemiah arranged books of the Old Testament; rebuilt walls of city and fortified it under arms.

Note: "Babylonian captivity thoroughly cured Jews of idolatry. Henceforth avoided mingling with idolatrous nations."

652 .

Semitic idolatrous polytheism vanished. Pure spiritual monotheism advanced.

The Ten Tribes in the North Country.

(a) Ten Tribes started for Canaan but traveled north. In one and one-half years achieved 2,800 miles. Burdened with their flocks and herds, and the old and infirm.

His quest seemed unfruitful till at the last in his dying moments he was given the vision of his Master, and he passed to his rest, knowing he had found the Savior whom he had so faithfully followed all his days. A simpler Christmas story on which children of all ages from ninety to nine enjoy is The Birds' Christmas Carol, by Kate Douglas Wiggin. It pictures the two extremes of city life. Carol Bird, a rich little girl but an invalid, becomes interested in the ragged little Ruggleses, who live in a kind of "poverty flat" near the Bird mansion. Mrs. Ruggles is a hard-working widow with a large family on her hands. Christmas is coming, and Carol decides to invite the Ruggles children to dinner. The excitement caused by this unexpected honor, the preparations made for them to appear "in style," the drills that Mrs. Ruggles gives her unruly youngsters in "manners" are very amusing; yet underneath it all is a sweet pathos, and a life lesson on which the reader loves to linger. Another Christmas Carol is that written by Charles Dickens. This has become a classic, and is usually studied in our schools. The theme is the redemption of Scrooge, a miserly old business man and a bachelor, whose love of the dollar has driven every instinct out of his life and left him sordid and lonely. His partner, Jacob Marley, appears to Scrooge in a dream. Marley has been dead for some years and he returns to warn Scrooge of the fate that awaits him if he does not change his life. Then appear in turn three ghosts—the ghosts of the Christmas Past, the Christmas Present, and the Christmas of the Future. Scrooge is taken by the ghost of the past over the scenes of his boyhood; the ghost of the Christmas present asks him to see the joys of the Christmas time which he has long ceased to share; and the ghost of the future shows him the end towards which his selfish life is leading. In his terror Scrooge wakes from the dream strongly resolved to mend his ways, and he keeps his resolve in a most generous way thereafter. The charming pictures of Christmas, the sweet wholesomeness of the holiday spirit that the story reveals make this a tale that continues to give delight to all. It should be read every year in our schools and homes. The spirit of Christmas is reflected also by many delightful songs and poems of various kinds. Among the earliest of these are the quaint old carols still sung on Christmas morning in merry England and elsewhere. The following stanzas are typical: As Joseph was a walking He heard the angel sing, "This shall be the birth-night, Of Christ our heavenly king. "His birth bed shall be neither In housen nor in hall, Nor in the place of paradise, But in the oxen's stall." From As Joseph Was a Walking. God rest you merry, gentlemen, Let nothing you dismay, For Jesus Christ our Savior, Was born upon this day, To save us all from Satan's power, When we were gone astray. From "God Rest You Merry, Gentlemen." Among the other time-honored Christmas songs are "The Cradle Hymn," by Martin Luther, and "Silent Night, Holy Night," by Von Weber, which are perhaps best known. The sweet simplicity of their soulful lines make them live forever with us. Following is the opening stanza of the last named song: Holy night, silent night, All is calm, all is bright, Round yon Virgin mother and child, Holy infant, so tender and mild, Sleep in heavenly peace, Sleep in heavenly peace. Luther's "Cradle Hymn" is to be found in the Deseret Sunday School Song Book, No. 214. These and other sweet Christmas hymns should often be heard in our homes. Other delightful Christmas poems for children and grown folks too are "The Very Best Kind of Christmas Tree," by Henry Van Dyke; "Piccola," Celia Thaxter; "A Real Santa Claus," Frank D. Sherman; "The Fool's Christmas," Florence May Alt. As a final word to close this pleasant task of outlining these few lessons on "Literature for the Home," the writer of these lessons would express appreciation for the kindly spirit with which the lessons have been received, and offer the hope that the seeds sown through them may find constant expression in better books, choicer stories and songs in our homes, and the sharing of these riches constantly around the family fireside. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Name the ten subjects that have been taken up in the course on "Literature for the Home," during the year. 2. What choice thought has come from this study to you?

What practical result has come from the course and found expression in your life or home? 3. For this last lesson of the series, we suggest that a program be planned on "Christmas in Song and Story." Some such outline as the following might well be followed: (a) Christmas Song, "Holy Night," or another. (b) Reading of St. Luke 2:8-14. The First Christmas Story, or have selections from Ben Hur (two or three pages) taken from the chapter of the Angel and the Shepherds. (c) Telling of the story of The Other Wise Man. Christmas. Luther's Cradle Hymn, or another suggestive of (d) (e) Birds' Christmas Carol, readings from this story. (f) Solo, "The Children's Friend," or some other story appropriate to the occasion. (g) Reading of one or two poems named in this article, (h) Closing song.

LESSON IV. Home Economics. SPIRITUAL CHARACTER BUILDING IN CHILDHOOD.

Introductory. Ethics is the relationship of man to man; religion is the relationship of man to his God. With this definition we pass to our discussion of this subject. Latter-day Saint mothers realize the importance of teaching their children faith and of developing the spiritual character of their children. But how shall it be done, when shall it be done, and by whom shall it be done? "The time to begin training a child," as Oliver Wendell Holmes once remarked, "is one hundred years before the child is born," which implies the necessity for righteous marriage, and wise choice, that we may give our children good spiritual beginnings. Some mothers who are not born in the Church, and others who realize that teaching is, after all, something more than book learning or formal advice, and who inquire eagerly for methods to impart faith and the other spiritual virtues to their children. This lesson concerns itself in answering these questions.

When to Begin Teaching. As soon as the baby is born the atmosphere of piety, love and faith, or of indifference, and utter disregard of heavenly things affects the childish mind and spirit. If baby sees father and mother upon their knees, with the older children about the hearthstone repeating earnest prayers before retiring or upon awakening, instinctively the baby climbs down from its mother's lap, puts up its hands, and thus begins his spiritual training. If baby hears mother tell polite lies, or listens to father using violent or unclean language, baby's bad ethical training has begun.

By Whom Shall the Training Be Given? First by the righteous father and the wise mother, for these two personify and represent to the baby's mind all that he may know or grasp for some years to come concerning his heavenly parents. Not only these, but older brothers and sisters, grandparents, all relatives and friends of the family take part in this direct and indirect spiritual teaching.

Habit. The strongest force in making and unmaking character is habit. If children are taught through habit to pray, to speak reverently, to repent and be forgiven generously, to exercise faith in the healing ordinances of the Priesthood, to ask for heavenly favors as they do for earthly favors, they will be assisted by the most powerful factor in their future spiritual development.

Faith Development. When baby is sick, use the consecrated oil, pray over him, and let him pray for you when you are sick. Teach him through little stories, from the Scriptures and from your own life experiences, about our Father who lives in heaven and who sends his angels to protect and guide us upon this earth. Draw word pictures culled from scriptural sources of the glories and beauties of heaven. How much easier and better to fill the craving of the awakening mind for wonder stories, with true pictures of the wonders of God both in heaven and on earth, than to repeat the degenerate myths and legends of Pagan nations. Foolish mothers who try to feed their children with husks of false tradition called "Folk Stories," are poisoning the spiritual development of their children at its fount. An occasional fairy story may be told a child who is old enough to understand that it is simply a fairy story, but the ancient and modern scriptures are too full of true and wonderful stories to allow Latter-day Saint mothers to dip in the muddy stream of folk lore for such material.

Repentance. Quick, generous forgiveness must be offered the child who repents, lest he become hardened and repent no more. When children are at their play is the most fruitful time for spiritual lessons to be given and teachings to sink into their souls. After quarreling, with your arms about them, persuade them to repent and to forgive each other.

Side by side with this comes mercy and justice. Justice is taught by parents being just, and mercy should be shown when little ones inadvertently destroy or make other mistakes. Inculcating Reverence. Bow yourself with reverent head at prayer time and baby will instinctively imitate you. Some naturally ultra-independent spirits, even in babyhood, refuse to respond to this reverent spirit. Brigham Young once picked up a saucy, noisy baby of two years, in the midst of his own family prayers, spanked the child soundly and sat her down in her mother's chair. That was the end of confusion at prayer time in his family. When baby is taken to the meetinghouse, take the Sacrament yourself with reverence without hurry; and, with the look of your eye, as you gaze seriously at the baby, inculcate a reverent spirit in your child. It may be necessary at times to tell baby, before you go into the meeting or after you come out, about the house being the Lord's house, and about the angels who are there and who are disturbed when children play or are noisy therein; sometimes sound chastisement may be needed by the child if he refuses to respond to this sympathetic teaching. The Love of God. The love of God can be instilled into the hearts of the smallest child if the voice of the mother and her own full heart conveys to his receptive mind the impression of her own exquisite adoration of the Savior and our Father in heaven. Too much of our religious explanation is made to children, with indifferent voices and flippant tones. The eye and the lip are better teachers many times than the word or even the thought. Love God yourself, mother, cultivate worship and reverence, through prayer and striving, and through the intimate daily contact with his spirit, and it will be much easier for your children to receive that heavenly influence into their own lives. Teach the baby to love his father by refraining from one word of criticism of that father in the presence of the baby, at least. It is as necessary for a child to have a love for his father instilled as it is for him to imbibe the love of God within his soul. If he reveres and loves his earthly father, it will be easy to reverence and worship God. All of the attributes of our Father can be dwelt upon as occasion may arise for that lesson to be taught. Reliance and Trust in God. Older children should acquire a reliance and trust in our heavenly Father through answer to prayer, and, as always, through the consciously exerted influence GUIDE LESSONS. 659 of a wise mother. In teaching this trust to children awaken also their reasoning power to understand that all prayers could not be answered; some desires might be unwise; and children must learn as they grow older to let the issue of their prayer remain in our Father's hands. This lesson is even more important than the lesson of simple faith. Indirect Teaching. The best lessons come to the human heart through indirect teaching. This does not mean that the wise parents must never give direct counsel or instruction. The difficulty too often is that they give too much. The indirect method consists of hints picked up from example and unstudied talk, and in answering questions rather than in preaching sermons. When a child asks a question, the parents should answer that question though the heavens fall. No matter how busy or how tired or overtaxed the mother may be, the childish mind is then open to receive direct that inspiration or information which would be too often rejected or not understood if the occasion were forced upon the child at some other time. Another form of indirect teaching is the conversation in the family at meal times, in the evening, or at hurried moments when we are off our guard. Indeed, a mother and grandmother must never be off guard in the presence of children. That is the price they pay for successful parenthood.