[Vol37 | November 1950 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Lesson | Title: 768 Visiting Teacher Messages: "Forgive, and Ye Shall Be Forgiven" | Author: Mary Grant Judd]
Visiting  cfeacher   f/lessages — Our  Savior 
Speaks 
Lesson  13— ''Forgive,  and  Ye  Shall  Be  Forgiven"  (Luke  6:37). 
Mary  Grant  Judd 
For  Tuesday,  February  6,  1951 
Objective:     To  define  what  constitutes  true  forgiveness  and  to  point  out  why 
forgiveness  has  a  two-fold  aspect. 
TT  would  appear  that  in  no  circum- 
stances did  the  Christ  show  his 
divine  superiority  to  mortal  man 
more  than  in  his  ability  to  forgive. 
In  his  hour  of  great  anguish  he 
prayed  for  his  persecutors,  ''Father 
forgive  them;  for  they  know  not 
what  they  do." 
It  was  the  poet  Alexander  Pope 
who  said,  'To  err  is  human,  to  for- 
give, divine."  Perhaps  it  is  because 
we  are  so  human  that  we  find  it 
difficult  to  forgive  as  completely  as 
our  Savior  would  have  us  do.  "Love 
your  enemies,"  he  counsels  us, 
"bless  them  that  curse  you,  do  good 
to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray 
for  them  which  despitefully  use 
you,  and  persecute  you,  That  ye 
may  be  the  children  of  your  Father 
which     is     in     heaven"      (Matt. 
5  •44-45)- 
There  may  be   instances  where 
Jesus  told  us  to  forgive  without 
adding  that  in  like  manner  could 
we  expect  forgiveness,  but  the  writ- 
er has  been  unable  to  discover  any 
such  passages.  Consider  these 
typical  verses  from  the  incompar- 
able Sermon  on  the  Mount.  After 
praying,  "Forgive  us  our  debts  as 
we  forgive  our  debtors,"  Christ  gave 
this  promise: 
If    ye    forgive    men    their    trespasses, 
your    heavenly    Father   will    also    forgive 
you:  But  if  ye  forgive  not  men  their 
trespasses,  neither  will  your  Father  for- 
give your  trespasses  (Matt.  6:14-15). 
It  is  logical  that  the  injunction  to 
"forgive"  was  combined  with  the 
promise  "and  ye  shall  be  forgiven," 
for  "God's  cleansing  power  cannot 
flow  through  an  unforgiving  heart." 
No  one  knows  our  own  human  frail- 
ties as  well  as  we  ourselves.  It  is 
in  realizing  our  individual  shortcom- 
ings that  we  become  tolerant  of 
the  shortcomings  of  others.  Our 
Savior  ever  tells  us  to  take  heed  to 
ourselves,  to  be  as  conscious  of  the 
beam  in  our  own  eye  as  of  the  mote 
in  our  neighbor's. 
A  wise  philosopher  once  said, 
"The  remedy  for  wrongs  is  to  for- 
get them."  There  is  no  more 
damaging  influence  to  our  personal- 
ities than  to  fail  to  erase  from  our 
minds  the  memory  of  wrongs  done 
to  us  by  others.  Sometimes  in  re- 
taining a  hurtful,  resentful  recollec- 
tion from  the  past,  we  may  even 
blot  out  some  beautiful  experiences 
of  the  present. 
John  Sutherland  Bonnell  points 
out: 
There  is  not  one  of  us  who  will  not 
be  hurt  by  life  and  by  people.  We  all 
have  legitimate  grievances.  We  can  all 
recall  unkindnesses  that  we  have  not  pro- 
voked,   occasions    when    our    good    was

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
775 
repaid  by  evil  and  our  generosity  by 
baseness.  The  important  thing  is  not 
that  these  form  a  part  of  our  experiences 
of  hfe.  What  matters  is  what  we  do 
about  them.  If  we  treasure  these  things 
up  in  our  memories,  we  do  it  at  disas- 
trous cost  to  ourselves. 
All  of  which  reminds  one  of  the 
saying  of  President  Grant,  ''It  isn't 
the  initial  expense  of  the  grudge 
that  matters,  it's  the  upkeep  that  is 
so  costly." 
In  conclusion,  consider  the  loving 
counsel  given  by  the  apostle  Paul  to 
the  Ephesians,  *'Be  ye  kind  one  to 
another,  tenderhearted,  forgiving 
one  another,  even  as  God  for 
Christ's  sake  hath  forgiven  you" 
(Eph.  4:32). 
V(/ork    nfleeting — The  Art  of  Homemaking