THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President

Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor

Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer

Achsa E. Paxman

Leone G. Layton

Lillie C. Adams

Alta J. Vance

Mary G. Judd

Blanche B. Stoddard

Ethel C. Smith

Christine H. Robinson

Anna B. Hart

Evon W. Peterson

Louise W. Madsen

Alberta H. Christensen

Edith S. Elliott

Leone O. Jacobs

Aleine M. Young

Nellie W. Neal

Florence J. Madsen

Mary J. Wilson

Josie B. Bay

Mildred B. Eyring

Vol. 37 NOVEMBER 1950 No. 11

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (1 segments, 9,947 chars) ===

'They had planned it during those long weeks in the spring when Mom had to lie in bed with rheumatic fever. There had been so many hours to talk things over and plan for birthdays and Christmas. "I know something we must buy for Dad's Christmas," Mom _ had said one day, "a white shirt. When he was getting ready for church last Sunday I noticed how shabby his shirt is, and it is the only white one he has. I've already turned the collar and now the cuffs are beginning to fray." "And _ every shirt to church," Jessie volunteered. A sudden shadow had 'crossed Mom's eyes. "My doctor bills have been such. A. Drain, Jessie. Your Daddy has gone without so. Many things he really needs. I've been thinking how nice it would be if we could really make his Christmas special this year. By June I'll be all well and strong. 'Then maybe I could work again.. Wouldn't xt be nice. To have our own money and to be able to buy him ties and several shirts. And a robe?" man wears a. White "T think it would be the nicest thing," Jessie had agreed eagerly. "And maybe I could help, too, if someone needs a baby sitter." Bur it was not until September that the first money went into their Christmas fund. For although Mom had been up since June, and seemed to be as well and full of life as before, Dad simply would not hear of her going to work; and all summer long it seemed that no one needed Jessie to mind children. Then one day in September, scarce- » ly two weeks before that never-to-beforgotten day when Mom was rushed to the hospital, Jessie came home from school to find her busy making an angel food cake, and she was beaming. "Jessie, just think, honey, Mrs. Price asked me to make a cake for a party she's having tonight. 'That will be a dollar toward our Christmas fund, and, who knows, by Christmas maybe I'll have a chance to bake a dozen cakes." That had been a memorable afternoon. Jessie had helped whip egg whites and sift sugar and flour, and all the while she and Mom had talked about the fun they would have surprising Dad. 'That night they had taken the precious: dollar and put it in a little blue china vase on the highest cupboard shelf. It was the -last time Jessie had thought anything about the money until one day just after 'Thanksgiving. 'Then she took the vase down, and emptied its contents into her hand—one round, silver dollar. Tears ran down her cheeks as she remembered the cake-baking day. There wouldn't be enough money to buy the things they had planned, A STAR IS SHINING but maybe there would be enough for the white shirt if she could earn a dollar before Christmas. Maybe Mrs. Roberts would want to do some Christmas shopping and would need a baby sitter now since Gary was born. Jessie decided to stop by and ask her. And Mrs. Roberts had been so sweet, especially when Jessie told her about the white shirt. "Why, yes, Jessie, I'll be very glad if you'll stay with him, maybe next Friday after school." She had stayed on Friday afternoon and then last Saturday morning. Now she had the money—two dollars here in her purse, and it would buy a white shirt. Samuelson's had advertised them for a dollar and ninety-five cents. Dad would have a new white shirt even if she couldn't get any of the other things she and Mom had talked about. He wouldn't have to look shabby in church any more. Jessie smiled a little, could it be possible that Mom might know? She _ had thought when she looked at Mom's picture this morning that her smile seemed unusually bright. It was almost as if she were going to say, "Good girl, Jessie." The snow had stopped falling when she got off the bus, and the magic of the storm seemed to have transformed the town into a fairyland, adding glamour to each festive street. Over the silvery, frosted air, the voices of a choral group rang out: "O come all ye faithful, joyful and triumphant, come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem." ee walked slowly, drinking in ' the beauty of the song. The streets were crowded. People, their 733 arms filled with packages, were hurtying in every direction. Everyone but a small boy in an old, brown topcoat. He was standing by Samuelson's window, his face pressed against the pane, his eyes glued to the silver Christmas tree with its trimmings of glistening red_ balls. No one seemed to notice him especially, for any child will stop to look at a Christmas tree. But something about the way he was standing, the look in his eyes, told Jessie that he was unhappy. And because all her life she had been taught to be kind, it was instinctive to stop beside him. "It's a beautiful tree isn't it?" she said. And when he turned to look at her she could see the trace of tears in his eyes. "Is something wrong?" she asked sympathetically. Although he couldn't have been more than eight years old, there was a certain manliness about him. "No," he answered, squaring his shoulders, "I was just wishin'." "Wishin' what?" "Wishin' that I had a Christmas nec." "But everybody has a Christmas tree." "T haven't." In spite of him the tears were near spilling. "Gram says Santa Claus can't bring trees, he's got too much else to bring." "Do you live with your grandma?" Jessie asked. "IT do. Now—Mom died." "Oh." There was sympathy and understanding in her voice. She knew how he felt; they had experienced the same heart-crushing loss —knew the same loneliness. "Tm _ Jessie," she said kindly. "What's your name?" 734 "Terry Willis." "But, Terry, you've got to have a tree. Couldn't your Grandma buy one?" He shook his head. "She hasn't enough money." Jessie didn't answer then. She was suddenly very conscious of the two dollars in her purse. Two dollars would buy a Christmas tree. But she couldn't buy a tree with that money. No, of course she couldn't. That money was to buy a shirt for Dad, a shirt from Mom as well as herself. They had always given Dad a Christmas present; it wouldn't be Christmas without doing that. And Dad needed the shirt, Mom had said so, too, and she had left a dollar to help buy it. But what about a boy without a Christmas tree? And there was something. So pleading in Terry's face looking up at her. What could she do? A strange sort of conflict was going on within her. The money in her purse—it belonged to Mom, too. Mom—what would Mom do? Mom would buy a tree for Terry, of course. The answer came instantly, as if someone had spoken it. A strange sort of warmth filled Jessie then. The conflict was gone; she knew the answer. "Terry, I'll buy you a Christmas tree," she promised. His face lighted instantly. "You will? Have you got the money, Jessie?" "Yes, Terry, right here in my purse. Where do you live?" "Just a block up and one over. Gee, wonder what Gram will say when I bring home a tree?" He was jubilant. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1950 In the next block they found a man selling trees, and he seemed to be anxious to get rid of them. "Do you have any for two dollars?" Jessie asked a bit timidly. The man eyed them kindly. "Wait," he said. He was gone only a few minutes, and when he returned he was carrying a little tree. It was a bit stragely, but not too bad. "This was two dollars. You can have it for one. Won't be bad when it's trimmed up." I all handed him the money. There was still a dollar left. Maybe she could still) buy something for Dad. Terry picked up the tree. His face was radiant. "Will you come and help me trim it?" he asked. "Well, I guess I. Can if I don't stay too long. Have you got any trimmings, Terry?" The light went out of his face. "Gee, I never thought of that, but maybe Gram's got something." Jessie knew that it wasn't likely his Gram would have anything, at least not any glistening ornaments or silver icicles. 'There was still a dollar in her purse, and maybe a dollar wouldn't buy a very good tie, but a tree without trimmings was as good as no tree at all. A little while later Jessie followed her new friend through the door of a small, shabby-looking house at the end of a narrow street. Terry was proudly carrying the tree, and under her arm Jessie held a box of blue ornaments and another of silver icicles. The room they entered was quite bare, but very clean, and warm from the fire glowing in the little heating stove. A STAR IS SHINING "Gram," Terry called, "come and see what I've got." From the adjoining room came a thin, frail-looking woman, with soft, gray hair and a face that expressed gentle kindness. She looked from Terry to Jessie in complete surprise. "Gram, just look," cried the boy, "a Christmas tree and trimmings! This is Jessie, Gram. She got them for me." "Jessie," she smiled warmly. "What a nice surprise. So you buy a tree for my boy. Come by the stove and take off your coat. Now tell me how you knew Terry needed a tree." Briefly Jessie related her meeting with the little boy, while Terry busied himself with the tree. The Grandma listened, and her eyes grew sad. "So bad I wanted a tree for Terry. But this month I needed coal and warm underwear for him. So little money I have, none is left for a tree. So now you give your money for his tree, but the money you have saved for something else," she concluded. "A good girl you are. Your Mama is a kind woman, she teaches you how to do." Jessie felt a lump rising in her throat, and then she was telling the Grandma all about Mom. And the Grandma was so kind and so motherly. With an arm around Jessie, she spoke words of comfort and understanding that drove the choked-up feeling away, and Jessie went to help Terry with the tree. It was fun seeing his eyes sparkle as the blue ornaments and the silver icicles transformed the bare little tree into a thing of beauty. For it was beautiful, Jessie decided, 735 standing off to admire it. Some how it had transformed the little room like a magic wand would have done. The Grandma, too, was all praise for it. "And now I have something," she said, "come." On the table were cups of hot chocolate she had made while they were trimming the tree.

=== EXTRACTED ADS ===

--- Ad content from V37_11_23_Art_Visiting_Teacher_M_Judd.txt ---

V37_11_23_Art_Visiting_Teacher_M_Judd.txt

I by Woods, Watt, and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: The Progress of Man Reference: THE PROGRESS OF MAN, by Joseph Fielding Smith $2.25 — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44
East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers ever see a white zebra? Neither have we — his stripes are permanent even after years under the scorching sun and. Varied climates he heads the field for his striking beauty and outstanding colors. ~ BRIGHT BLEND TEXTILE COLORS | lead the field also permanent after _. Repeated washing, bleaching or cleaning sunfast too— — goes on ANY fabric from nylon to burlap also. © _ bisque, figurines and paper can be painted with BRIGHT BLEND TEXTILE COLORS. 24 gorgeous shades _ ready-to-use no mixing required available at your local dealer, or write; HOUSE OF PROGRESSION Main P. O., Box 2628
Los Angeles 53, Calif. ASK FOR OUR FREE LIST OF STENCIL oe PATTERNS —