[Mildred Bennion Eyring Appointed to the Relief Society General Board by Leone G. Layton]

Mildred Bennion Eyring Appointed to the Relief Society General Board Leone G. Layton Member, Relief Society General Board LL who have been associated A with Mildred Bennion Ey- ~~ ring will welcome her appointment to the general board of Relief Society on September 18, 1950. To know Sister Eyring is to appreciate the sturdy pioneer forebears who loved the gospel pattern by which she has lived.
Wherever she has been, she has served the Church, and many missionaries and members bear testimony to the hospitality of her home.
Born in Granger, Utah, to Marcus and Lucy Smith Bennion, Sister Eyring early learned the value of service, as her mother was counselor in the ward Relief Society presidency for many years. Miuldred's appointment as_ assistant Sunday School organist at the age of fourteen demonstrated her interest in music which has continued through her life. She obtained a B. S.
Degree in the field of health and physical education from the University of Utah, remaining there as a faculty member for seven years. A desire for further study took her to the University of Wisconsin, where she met and married Henry Eyring.
Having previously accepted the position as Head of the Women's Division of Physical Education at the University of Utah, she returned there for a few months before going to Germany with her husband for a year. 'They returned to Berkeley, California, where Dr.
Eyring taught for a year before acMILDRED BENNION EYRING cepting an appointment in the Department of Chemistry at Princeton University.
Here they labored diligently in the small branch at New Brunswick, New Jersey, often traveling fifty-nine miles on Sunday, and stopping on the way to invite missionaries and other members to ride with them to Church. The Eyring home was open to all and, during the war years, the branch met there. Sister Eyring served as counselor and theology leader in the small Relief Society, and many gatherings were enriched by her lovely singing. The appointment of Dr. Henry Eyring as Dean of the Graduate School of the University of Utah brought the family West, and Sister  730
Eyring became active in Monument Park Ward, Bonneville Stake. She was called to be theology leader and a visiting teacher and, later, first counselor in* Relief Society and taught the Gospel Doctrine class in Sunday School. Sister Eyring is the mother of three sons, Edward Marcus, now  serving aS a missionary in the French Mission, Henry Bennion, and Harden Romney The Eyring family is characterized by the fine quality of intellectual companionship which they enjoy. The motto of their household might well be, "As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." J Shanksgiving Louise Spencer ORE than three hundred years ago a small band of people to whom right and wrong meant more than life itself, left their home shores and all they had ever known to embark in a small vessel, with a poorly charted course, over a great ocean, to a vaguely known destination.
Surely there must have been times when a flood of fear rose up in their hearts, fear that could be smothered only in the blessed relief of prayer.
Prayer and the belief that God led them. And he did guide them, not to the sunny southland of which they had dreamed, but rather to the rigors of the rugged country soon to be known as New England.
Here they were to leave their mark on civilization.
Here their choice posterity was to become a force for righteousness on earth., That first winter the grim reaper took many of their number by the hand and led them to still another land. But those who remained never lost their courage—nor their hope— nor their faith in God.
When spring came they planted seeds, only hoping to be allowed to reap what they had sown. God was merciful and granted to them an abundant harvest. - So overflowing with gratitude were the hearts of these people that they found it insufficient expression of their feelings to merely say, "We thank thee, God." Out of their need for a greater expression they set aside one day to be used for the giving of thanks to him.
Their tables were heavily laden with a portion of that most important harvest, and the Pilgrim, who had known so many lean days, with his friend the Indian, sat down together to feast. Today, we remember those people and their many fine deeds. For we, like them, have found a need for giving thanks for our harvest and for all of which it is symbolical. For if there were no peace among men in our midst there would be no harvest; if there had been storms and havocs of nature there would be no harvest; if God had not watched over the seed and given it power of increase there would be no harvest.
Without harvest the earth would soon be desolate and without life. So, following the good example of our Pilgrim Fathers, we of this generation have set aside one day after each harvest for thanksgiving to God.: A Star Is Shining Sylvia Probst Young NOWEFLAKES, like — small curled feathers falling against the bus window, held Jessie's eyes and brought a little smile to her lips. 'There would be snow for Christmas.
Already it lay upon the roofs like foamy cake frosting, and every tree stood "ridged inch deep ~ in pearl." She had hoped that it would snow, snow would make it seem a little more like Christmas tomorrow, although nothing would really make it seem like Christmas without Mom. For Mom had made Christmas, and every memory of Jher was as bright and sparkling as the lights on the Christmas tree. A sudden mist blurred Jessie's eyes—remembering. 'They had always had such fun planning for Christmas.
Ever since she was a very little girl she had helped with the gift wrapping and the Christmas cards. Together, she and Mom had made fondant and a very special kind of Christmas cookies with nuts and dates and lemon peel. Together, they had trimmed the tree, with Dad there to hang ornaments on the topmost branches. But the most important thing about Christmas had been planning a present for Dad.
This year everything was different, for Mom was not here—Mom had died. It was so final and poignant, that knowledge, and always it was with her, stinging at her heart.
Christmas without Mom would never be the same.
Last night she and Dad had trimmed their tree, and Dad had been unusually gay, but she knew he was just pretending.
Last year they had popped corn by the fireside, and Dad had read the Christmas story from the Bible. She and Mom had played a duet—"Star of the East." She could remember it all so clearly, even the dress Mom was wearing—a new, blue wool, the color of her eyes. Always, through all the days and years, there would be only memories—memories that made her ache with longing. We oe Re OK & BVERYTHING had changed so much since that October morning when she had awakened to see Dad sitting by her bed not looking like himself at all. She had been afraid then, more afraid than she had ever been before, because he was so gray-looking and old. He had held her very close and had tried to say something, but he couldn't talk, and she had known without being told. The next few days had been like a horrible dream.
Everyone had been so kind and had tried so hard to help, but it was as if her heart were frozen inside of her and wouldn't ever thaw out.
After the funeral was over, and they were all alone—just she and Dad, loneliness settled in with them like a permanent tenant, familiar everywhere— in the living room, the bedrooms, the kitchen, the yard. It had been almost more than she could endure, and one day Dad had found her in Mom?'s clothes closet with her arms | around a blue gingham house dress, crying softly to herself. But when she saw how choked up he became Page 731 

732