["For After Much Tribulation Come the Blessings" by Belle S. Spafford]

"For After Much Tribulation Come the Blessings" President Belle S. Spafford (Address delivered at the general session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference held in the Tabernacle, September 28, 1950.) ECENTLY I read a short biographical sketch of Giacomo Leopardi, a great Italian poet and a distinguished scholar of his day. His writings were noted for their perfection of style though somewhat tinged with pessimism.
Leopardi lost his love of God and, eating his heart out in reasoning despair, ended with these desolate lines: "Life is but the privation of the pleasurable; it is destroyed illusions and wounded pride.
Tiresome and bitter is life—never aught but that." Mr. Clarence Darrow, one of the nation's greatest criminal lawyers of a few years ago, an eminently successful man judged by the standards of the Sill wrote that to him "the outstanding fact of human life is the utter futility of it all." He said that "no life is of much value... The most satisfying part of life is the time spent in sleep when one is utterly oblivious to existence, and the next best Is when one is absorbed in activities."
Such futilism as expressed by these two men is one of irreligion's commonest effects. The soul that knows true religion, who has a belief in God, views life hopefully as an opportunity and a blessing. 'To the Latter-day Saint, possessed of revealed truth regarding God's great plan of life and salvation, the divine  purposes of God in the earth-life of man and how man may fulfill these purposes are clear. God has made known to us in positive terms the "why" of human existence and the ultimate destiny of man. In the light of this knowledge, life as we live it here upon the earth from day to day assumes its true significance. We know that we are sons and daughters of God; that our spirits had an existence before they tabernacled in the flesh; that there we dwelt with our Heavenly Father and Mother and the Son, that there we were given our free agency to act as we saw fit and that we exercised that agency and proved ourselves valiant. As a reward for that valiance, the Lord permitted us to come to earth, to take upon ourselves mortal bodies that we might further our progression. Moreover, we were given a special blessing to come to earth through the lineage of the faithful, in the dispensation of the fullness of times, heirs to salvation.
This knowledge should be a constant source of inspiration, strength, and confidence to us as we continue our earthly existence. In his teachings to Abraham the Lord showed him the intelligences that were organized before the world was, and the Lord said: "FOR AFTER MUCH TRIBULATION COME THE BLESSINGS" And there stood one among them that was like unto God, and he said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; and we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them. And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever (Abraham 3:24-26). NE cannot be proved by walking only the easy road, nor does he become valiant without struggle.
Through a mastery of the difficult the character of a man becomes strong. Lehi, speaking to his son Jacob, declared: "For it must needs be that there is an opposition in all things. If it were not so righteousness could not be brought to pass" (II Nephi 2:11).
Doctrine and Covenants, section 136:31, tells us: My people must be tried in all things, that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom.
History is replete with accounts of the children of men who have been tried, tested, and refined in the furnace of life—men whom the Lord loved dearly.
There is no question but that adversity brings out the best that is in men and women. The Lord knew this when He said, "And all saints who remember to keep and do these sayings, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them. Amen." (D. & C. 89:18-21.)