			TORY OF JOSEPH SMITH.

		NAUVOO, ILL., Thursday, March 24, 1842.
	I attended, by request, the Relief Society 
whose object is the relief of the poor, the des-
titute, the widow and the orphan, and for the
exercise of all benevolent purposes. Mrs. Em-
ma Smith has taked the presidential chair;
Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and Mrs. Sarah
M. Cleveland are her counselors; Miss Elvira
Cole, is treasurer, and our well-known and tal-
ented poetes Miss Eliza R. Snow, secretary. 
There was a very numerous attendance at the 
organization, of some of our most intelligent, 
humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies;
and we are well assured from a knowledge of
those pure principles of benevolence that flow
spontaneously from their humane and philan-
thropic bosoms, that with the resources they
will have at command, they will pour in oil and 
wine to the wounded heart of the distressed;
they will dry up the tears of the orphan, and
make the widow's heart to rejoice. Our la-
dies have always been signalized for their acts 
of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel
usage they have received from the barbarians
of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their ex-
tending the hand of charity in a conspicuous
manner; yet in the midst of their persecutions,
when the bread has been torn from their help-
less offspring but their cruel oppressors, they 
have always been ready to open their doors to  
the weary traveler, to divide their scanty pit-
tance with the hungry, and from their robbed
and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with 
the more needy and destitute; and now that 
they are living in a more genial soil, and
among a less barbarous people, and possess fa-
cilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed,
we feel convinced that with their concentrated
efforts, the condition of the suffering poor, of
the stranger and the fatherless will be amelior-
ated. We had the privilege of being present 
at their organization and were much pleased 
with their "modus operandi," and the good or-
der that prevailed. They are strictly parlia-
mentary in their procedings.


