HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Carbolic Acid.—In a recent number of the
"Lancet," Dr. Alexander Watson recorded several
cases of small pox and scarlet fever which by the ex-
ternal application of carbolic acid met with marked
success. In the case of one patient with small-
pox, whom he saw at the period when papulae ap-
peared, he ordered an enema, and then had the
patient (a girl of eleven years) sponged all over
with carbolic acid soap suds. On the next day a
severe attack of confluent small pox was threatened,
but the child was sponged as she had previously
been, and then her whole body was painted with
carbolic acid glycerine of the British Pharmacopae.
Five grains of Dover's powder were then given to
allay irritability, and the little girl slept quietly
for several hours, when she was sponged again.
No vesicles formed, and the patient was convales-
cent in a few days. Carbolic acid was, in the
meantime, plentifully used about the room.
	Cure for Diptheria.—A small quantity of either
sulphate of iron, tannin, or chlorate of potash, put
dry upon the tongue, and allowed to dissolve
there, once in every hour, have all been found to
be most efficient remedies in the early stages of
diptheria. This terrible disease appears under
three varieties or forms. First, there is a fever,
severe pains in the head, bones and limbs, and a
very great prostration. There may be no soreness
of the throat, but on examining it, small white
specks will be noticed on the tonsils, but few or
none on the rest of the throat. These cases will
recover under any and every variety of treatment
in from four to six days. The great, but false,
reputation of many remedies and physicians is
based upon the necessarily favorable results of
these cases. Second: Large patches of false mem-
brane will be observed both on the tonsils and
back of the throat; but the glands of the neck do
not become swollen.
	The majority of these cases will also recover,
under very simple treatment, unless the disease
extends down to the windpipe, which it rarely
does. Third: True malignant diptheria, with
swelling of the glands of the neck and under the
jaw; profuse and often offensive exudations in the
mouth and throat; more or less discharge from the
nostrils. Chlorate of potash is a disinfectant as
well as a curative remedy; and if given pure and
dry upon the tongue every hour, night and day,
will rarely disappoint the practitioner. A small
dose every night may act as a preventtive reme-
dy. Sometimes tannin may be given more readily
than the chlorate of potash. The sulphate of
iron is rather more irritant, and must be given in
smaller quantities. The main points in the use of
these remedies are to give them dry upon the
tongue, and frequently and regularly both by night
and day.—Ex.


DR. Holland thinks the cure for gossip is 
culture. He says good-natured people talk 
about their neighbors only because they
have nothing else to talk about.


THE man who lives right and is right
has more power in his silence than another
has by his words. Character is like bells
which ring out sweet music, and which,
when touched accidentally, even, resound
with sweet music.


The mind grows through its ideas.
Thought is soul food, and greatness comes
of enlarged conceptions of truth. As the
barren field is profitless, so is the mind
which is barren of ideas. The one pro-
duces no bread for the world's eating; and
the other no thoughts for the world's think-
ing.


