	       BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

		"That heart methinks
Were of strange mould which kept no cherished print
Of earlier, happier times, when life was fresh,
And love and innocence made holiday." 
	If there is any theme that never grows
monotonous, and of which we can always
call forth fresh thoughts, and tender recol-
lections it is childhood.  It is a subject that
touches the strongest hearts, and never
fails to bring some pleasant remembrance
to the most cold and barren mind. "When
I was a child," says the happy mother, the
fond father, the aged grand-parents, the
good aunts and uncles; and how they love
to take the little children in their arms and
tell them of their own child-life.  Always
some, reminiscences of "earlier happier
times" that send the life-current rushing
swifter through the veins, or make the
heart-strings ring out the echoing music of
the pleasures of the past.
 It is good to keep a living spring from
the fountain of one's childhood open,
through all future life, for it refreshes the
wanderer upon life's journey; and in many
barren, desolate places, it revives the droop-
ing spirit, and reanimates the soul with the
hopes and aspirations that were erst an in-
centive to exertion, and like the gentle
soothing zephyrs from afar renew and in-
vigorate the tired energies, and act as an
impetus to force us to the accomplishment
of the resolves with which we armed our-
selves in the spring time of life.
 Many of the greatest men and women
date back to early impressions and influen-
ces the origin of the plans and well laid
schemes that have worked out for them
places of distinction in the ranks of wealth
or fame.
 Children can never be too happy, the hap-
pier you make them, the richer, and purer
will be the fountains of their thoughts, and
the growth of high and holy feelings de-
pend in a great measure upon the influen-
ces and surroundings of one's childhood-
I do not allude to wealth, or indulgences
that are improper, for the simplest enjoy-
ments are by far the sweetest to a child.
Broken dishes, and rag-dolls, and the cast-
off and worn-out finery of grandmothers,
which abound in the garrets of old-fash-
ioned homes, made the children as happy,
and more satisfied, than the grand wax-
dolls with real hair, and eyes that open
and shut, and the elegant baby tea and din-
ner sets, which mama is so afraid the child-
ren will spoil because they cost so much
money. In this age of splendor and mag-
nificence, in the homes of the rich, every-
thing is too costly for children, and their
lives are hampered and little childish im-
pulses pent up and circumscribed by the
rules of fashionable life. "Don't make a
play house of mother's room," how often
have I heard this; how much nicer child-
ren think it is to play in mother's room
than almost anywhere in the world, and
many a mother who feels too nervous and
tired to let her children play there, and 
tired to let her children play there, and 
sends them out to drink in of other influ-
ences, would in after years give all she pos-
sessed, to have kept under her own eye
those precious ones, now gone perhaps, or
imbued with ideas which sting to the very
soul that mother, whose nerves could not
endure the noise and meriment of her own
little ones. The mother's room is the dear-
est place on earth to the little child; let
them play there, let them come there to
pour out all their little griefs and sorrows;
and as they grow older, do not send them
into the parlor or some cold formal place to
tell their joys or sorrows; but in mother's
OWN room, with the freedom of childhood
give them the full confidence of unselfish
affection.
 No matter how homely or poor the "moth-
er's room" was, the heart will instinctively
turn back to it in manhood, or womanhood,
and with that feeling of unfeigned love and
tenderness which lives forever, which is
immortal within the soul, imprinted in-
deliby in memory. In the long, weary
journey of a changeful life, there are times
and places, hours of such stolid darkness
that one has scarcely courage to look for-
ward, but it is always possible to look back
and to recall some pleasureable emotions
that bring into the heart the sunshine of 
the past, and make one feel that down in
the depths of the soul there lives a green
and precious memory of some loved or 
cherished thing which time can never
dim, or trouble destroy.
"Let the dead past bury its dead" is a
poetical phrase, and one which has become
proverbial, but there is also a "living past"
which we cannot annul, and of which a
record has been kept, and the entries made
there are in imperishable characters. That
which is good and true should live forever,
should bloom perpetually.
 No doubt locked away in the annals of
the past, are the keys which must unlock
the portals of the future, and from the ashes
of buried remembrances, of good deeds
and noble acts, there will eventually arise an
incense which will shed its fragrance
through all the eternal future. Thus will
the "living past" be all powerful to ensure
an entrance through the "golden gate" into
the Paradise of happiness. "Except ye be
as little children" were the words of our
blessed Savior; then is it not meet to pre-
serve some of the simplicity and guileless-
ness of childhood, keeping fresh and pure
the fountains of truth and recalling occa-
sionally to our remembrance the innocent
trust and implicit faith of the days "Lang
Syne?"
	S.L. City, March, 9, 1877.


