			SLATERVILLE, Feb. 25, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place meet
regularly and a good spirit prevails; we en-
joy ourselves very much, and often receive
encouraging instruction from the brethren
who frequently visit our meetings. The
sisters take a lively interest in the perform-
ance of their duties knowing that much
good can be accomplished if their labors
are applied in the right direction, putting
their trust in God. I will not weary you
with a lengthy article at present, but per-
haps you may hear from me again in the
future. I will now conclude.
	Your sister and co-worker,
						MARY FIELD.
	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., March 1, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our society is in a prosperous condition,
the members are interested in their duties
and feel determined to do all in their pow-
er to forward the good cause in which they
are engaged. I would say in relation to the
Grain Question, we are not over stocked
with that commodity in this northern re-
gion, owing to occasional frosts before our
crops mature; although as a general thing
enough is raised, and some to spare, of
good sound wheat, to furnish bread for the
community. The society has a small
amount on hand, and intend adding to that
little as fast as our limited means will al-
low, and with the help of our Heavenly
Father we will exert ourselves and secure
all the grain we can to store for future emer-
gencies, knowing as we do so that it is the
wish of our beloved President, that wheat
should be stored up for a time of need.
Pres't. C. C. Rich. Bishop Wm. Budge, and
others of the brethren, have from time to
time given us good counsel with regard to
this matter, and if we put in practice the
counsel of good men, we know we are in
the line of our duty.
	Taking into consideration the standing
of the society financially, we have dona-
ted liberally to the Temple Fund, and wish
we had been able to have done more. The
past winter has been unusually mild for this
part of the country; not more than from
eight to ten inches of snow has fallen at
one time during the season. We are now
blessed with delightful weather, and from
all appearances can commence ploughing
and putting in crops much earlier than
heretofore. Peace prevails in this settle-
ment with fair prospects of a happy future.
Hoping that we may realize our anticipa-
tions, and ever be found diligent servants
in aiding and assisting to move forward
the Lord's great work, and at last be found
worthy of the reward promised to the faith-
ful.
	I am your sister etc.
				Alice M. Rich, Sec'y.
	ANOTHER LITERARY INCORRIGBILE.—
Gustave Planche, the distinguished French
reviewer, read so much that he had seldom
time to wash his hands. One day, howev-
er, a lady with whom he was engaged to
dine succeeded in persuading him to ac-
cept a ticket for a warm bath. He took the
bath, but presented himself at dinner with
his hands still unwashed. During his im-
mersion he had read incessantly, and, hold
ing the book in his hands, had not once
dipped them in the water.

	THE SISTER.—No household is complete
without a sister. She gives the finish to
the family. A sister's love, a sister's influ-
ence—what can be more hallowed?. A sis-
ter's watchful care—can anything be more
tender? A sister's kindness—does the
world show us anything purer? Who would
live without a sister? A sister is a sort of
guardian angel in the home-circle. Her
presence condemns vice. She is the quick-
ener of good resolutions, the sunshine in the
pathway of home. To every brother she
is light and life. Her heart is the treasure-
house of confidence. In her he finds a safe
adviser, a charitable, forgiving, tender,
though often severe friend. In her he
finds a ready companion. Her sympathy
is as open as day and as sweet as the fra-
grance of flowers. We pity the brother
who has no sister, no sister's love. We feel
sorry for the home which is not enlivened by
a sisters presence. A sisters office is a no-
ble and gentle one. It is hers to persuade
to virtue, to win to wisdom's ways; gently
to lead where duty calls; to guard the
citadel of home with the sleepless vig-
ilance of virtue; to gather graces and strew
flowers around the home-altar. To be a sis-
ter is to hold a sweet place in the heart of
home. To minister in a holy office.


