			MUTUAL IM. ASS'N. 

	The three cardinal virtues. The Scrip-
tures tell us that without faith it is impos-
sible to please God. Hope is the key that
unlocks the door of happiness. While
Charity, pale meek-eyed Charity, is the
greatest of the three.


In this short essay, I shall dwell but
briefly on either of these virtues. I think
I shall endeavor to relate to you an allegory,
as near as I can, in the ancient eastern
style.
	Faith Hope, and Charity, were one day
wending their way to earth, to visit its in-
habitants when their conversation turned
on their respective value to man. "I" said
Hope. "you will both cheerfully acknowl-
edge, am of the most consequence to re-
generate man. I cheer his fallen spirits and
raise his drooping head, whisper to him of
joys to come, and teach him to bear the
present in the glad anticipation of the fu-
ture."
	When Hope had ceased speaking, Faith
gently said, "you are indeed necessary to
the happiness of man. But am I not more
necessary to him? By my aid, he can dis-
cern the future, can work miracles, and
greatest of all, can see and converse with
his Maker face to face."
	"My sisters" said Charity "your words
are full of truth. But Hope, you with
your bright eyes, gleesome voice, and rosy
lips; and Faith you too, with your mighty
power, and quiet, peaceful smile, I envy
you not. We are all blessings, but should
man possess you both, and lack my gifts,
he cannot dwell in the presence of God.
	The angel who accompanied them, sped
back to heaven with the intelligence that
Charity would win the greatest crown.
	My story will serve to illustrate my
meaning. If I were to multiply words, I
could not convey to your minds a clearer
idea of the value of these separate attri-
butes. One might perhaps live with a very
small degree of Hope and Faith, but if en-
dowed with a large portion of Charity, he
is indeed blessed. His hope of happiness
in this life may be dead, his faith but suffi-
cient to enable him to rely on God, still if
he possesses Charity, he shall know the ex-
quisite pleasure of giving, be it much or
little; he will love all God's creature's; he
will receive kindness for he will be kind
to his fellow-men; he will never have an
enemy among those who love what is good,
for he will be the friend of all such. He
will relieve the widowed, cherish the or-
phaned, and succor the oppressed and
needy when in his power to do so. Peace
shall dwell in his habitation, and content-
ment reign in his heart.
							S. Y. D.
	St. George, Feb. 16, '77.


