TO THE YOUNG LADIES SOCIETY.

	Sisters, I have not been as punctual in at-
tending meeting lately, as I would have
liked, circumstances having prevented me;
but my thoughts are ever with this society;
in my secret prayers I ask God to bless us,
to inspire us with a sense of our religion,
that we may interest ourselves in the pro-
gress of this glorious work. How many of
us realize the importance of studying our
religion, of seeking a knowledge for our-
selves that this is the everlasting gospel and
only true gospel on the face of the earth.
Not many, I’m afraid. Should we know
this? certainly we shonld; would you be-
lieve anything without knowing for your-
self whether it were true or not? One
might say why do you have to know it, let
me ask you what is the use of believing in
God who created all things, and what is the
use of asking him for his blessings if we
do not believe in him. But I take it for
granted that we all believe in a God, that
none of us are skeptical; and believing in
God, we are willing to obey him to the best
of our knowledge, even if that knowledge
be limited. Then my sisters it behooves us
to seek a knowledge for ourselves concern-
ing God’s will so that we can perform it to
his satisfaction; how are we going to know
his will otherwise; he has said, “If any
man lack wisdom let him ask of God who
giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth
not." He has also said "Ask and it shall
be given unto you, seek and ye shall find."
His word is unchangeable. Let us ask him
to show us things that we are greatly in
need of to-day, for did we all know for our-
selves that Mormonism, as it is termed, was
true, we would, I am certain, do more for
its progression than we have done hereto-
fore.
	We are called Daughters of Zion, are we
worthy the name? I think we have done
but little to be worthy so honorable a title.
I for one feel ashamed to think that l have
wasted the best of my days in idleness,
but now feel to thank God that I have
awakened to a sense of my duty. God never
placed any of us on the earth to grovel
along from day to day and never rise above
the level, and some hardly ever get that
far, all through their own carelessness. It
is our privilege to become wise and honor-
able women, and we will be, provided we
set our mark high, and work with a will to
attain it. Some might laugh at the idea,
thinking that we have great men enough
without having great women, but this is
not so, for who with any principle about
them whatever, will despise a noble-mind-
ed, good principled woman, and these
things constitute greatness; she will be a
blessing to any man who may chance to get
her.

[Column 2]
	We as girls do not wish to get ahead of
the boys, not at all, we only wish to be able
to help them that's all, do you think they
will dislike us for this? they would not be
looking at their own interest if they did.
Now my young sisters this society is called
the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Society,
do we fully understand the meaning of the
word Retrenchment, I think we do, but we
do not know altogether what to retrench
from; some people think it is from dress,
they are right, that is one theme, a small
one, but one of interest. We are told it is
from our ignorance and all evil ways, but
some people have got the idea that it is
dress and dress alone, and you will often
hear it said that the society is of no good
for the girls dress worse now than they ev-
er did; but this is not so for there is no girl
who attends these meetings regularly but
who tries to do better both as regards her
dress and all things that pertain to living a
good life. There are some few in Manti
who are a little extravagant in dress, are
they members of the Society? if they are
you very seldom find them at meeting, is
this the case with us? no we come here
feeling happy, feeling that we learn some-
thing, and that henceforth we will do all
the good we can and all in our power for
the advancement of the kingdom of God
and for our own improvement.
	These are my resolutions and I feel that
the other sisters feel the same, and that we
may continue to meet together and gain
knowledge, wisdom, and understanding,
and work with a will, so that in the end we
will be worthy to be called the Daughters
of Zion is my prayer.
							M. T.
	Manti, Feb. 19, 1877.


