HOME AFFAIRS.

HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon arrived in this
city Tuesday evening, March 13, in good health
and spirits.  Several of the brethren went to
Ogden to meet him.
IN THE obituary of Mrs. Martha A. Murray
who died in Wellsville, a mistake occurred in
stating the year of her marriage, it should
have read 1876, instead of 1877.
ANY PERSONS writing to us under assumed
signatures, must be sure and give the Editor
their real names otherwise their articles will
not be published.
JARED O. PRATT, son of Elder Orson Pratt
of this city, and another young man named
Mathew Ingram, were accidently killed by a 
snowslide which occurred in Big Cottonwood
canon on Sunday last.
 THE NEW Secretary for Utah, Hon. Levi P.
Luckey, with his family recently arrived in
this city.  We hope his position here may be
as propitious as his name would suggest.
WE HAVE reports from many diferent Re
lief Societies and Retrenchment Associations
which we have not space for now, but wil
publish as fast as practicable.  We have also
correspondence, poetry, essays, etc. which will
all come in place in due time.

 IN THE last number of the EXPONENT, in
the minutes handed us for publication from
the Eighth Ward, a mistake was made in call-
ing Royal B. Young the Bishop's counselor.
Elder R. B. Young is a home missionary but
not counselor to Bishop Sheets.

 MRS. S. K. GREENE writes from Springdale,
Kane County, under date of March 5th:  The
weather is warm and beautiful; the almond
and apricot trees are all in bloom, and nature's
aspects are pleasant and delightful.  The peo-
ple feel to praise God for His abundant mer-
cies, and to rejoice in His blessings so richly
bestowed upon them.
 TO-DAY, President John W. Young and
some of the Twelve Apostles, started on
their journey southward, expecting to preach
in some of the southern settlements upon the
route to St. George, and to arrive at that city
in time to be present at the General Confer-
ence and Dedication of the Temple, which
will take place on the 6th of April,
 MISS E. R. SNOW and Mrs. Zina D. Young
paid a visit to Ogden on Tuesday, March 13th,
to be present at the annual meeting of the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association. The
assembly was a very large one and the spirit
of God seemed especially manifested on the
occasion. The members seem earnest in their
desire for progression and advancement in all
things and on all subjects which pertain to the
building up of the kingdom of God.  They are
exerting a powerful influence in the cause of
reform. They will probably favor us with a
full report of their proceedings at their meet-
ing, for publication.
 THE PRESIDENTIAL question has been at
last settled and if not altogether satisfactorily,
yet the commotion and excitement  the sub-
ject seems to have subsided for a time, and
toned down to a sort of quietude.  It remains
for the future to determine what will be the re-
sult of the decision of the election.  At any
rate there is a lull, and the people have been
answered in their cry, "Let us have peace."
The Scriptures say "they shall cry peace,
peace, when there is no peace."  The country
is looking forward for a policy so settled and
equitable that its results will bring prosperity.
The people are asking for their burdens to be
lightened, currency restored, and so on, but
even the man on whom rests the heaviest re-
sponsibilities cannot do impossiblities, nor
succeed in effecting any public reform unless
he is properly sustained by those who are his 
co-workers.
 MADAME LE VERT who died recently and of
whose death we were apprised through the
"Deseret News" of last evening, was one of
those genial, pleasant, amiable women, whom
to see is to love.  Her Souvenirs of Travel is 
one of the best descriptions of country and
society on the continent we have ever read.
She was a woman well known in what the
world terms the best society.  Although she
was advanced in years at the time of her short
sojourn in Salt Lake City, yet she was charm-
ing in appearance, manners and conversation.
She was, during one period of her life, consid-
ered the most popular woman in the United
States. She was much impressed by the exer-
tions being made here by the Women of Utah
to become self-sustaining, although she was
not one of the advocates of woman's rights
among the circle in which she moved.
THE YOUNG ladies of the Twentieth Ward
Retrenchment Association had a social gath-
ering in the ward school-house on Tuesday
evening Feb. 27th. In the course of the even-
ing the president of the Association, Mrs.
Sarah Howard, became the recipient of a very
unexpected presentation.  It was her birth-
day and the secretary read an address written
for the occasion, expressing the feelings of the
members of the association, and begging her
acceptance of a birthday gift, as a small token
of their esteem and appreciation of her efforts
in their behalf.  One of the young ladies then
presented the gift  a very neat ladies work box.
So perfect was the surprise to Mrs. Howard
that she was very much impressed with such
a manifestation of affection from the young
ladies.  The evening passed off pleasantly and
was one long to be remembered, especially by
the president who has won the love and confi-
dence of her young friends and associates.
May she live many years to instruct them in
the principles of the Gospel, and that they may
ever appreciate her kind teaching and worthy
example is our earnest wish.
 SERICULTURE.--The Deseret Silk Associa-
tion met in the Fireman's Hall on the 7th
inst., Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young reported that the instructions on
silk raising were ready for the press and would
be printed by the time of holding our next
meeting.  She advised the members to plant
out trees and cuttings, and to use their influ-
ence to have others do so; expected to have all
the society silk reeled by the time of next
meeting.
 Very interesting remarks were also made by
Sisters Horne and Barney and others present.
Mr. P. A. Schettler said he felt greatly in-


terested in what had been said, and felt en-
couraged in what had already been done,
which was proof that all we needed was for
the people to take hold of this enterprize to
make it a success: to plant out trees and raise
the cocoons, and they could be worked right
here, and thus be giving employment to a
great many people. As soon as his trees could
be removed he would advertise in the papers.
He wished those who wanted eggs to let him
know as soon as possible. 
	Mr. P. A. Schettler and Mr. A. C. Pyper
were appointed a committee to see to the pub-
lication of the pamphlet on silk culture.
	Motioned that we change our meetings from
Wednesday until the first Friday in the month.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
April at 3 p. m.
