KNOW THEM."

	Having heard an article read which was
published in the Woman's Journal against
"Plural Marriage," and misrepresenting
things generally, I wish, through the col-
umns of the EXPONENT, to give my sisters
a word of caution, that they may not be de-
ceived by those that appear in sheep's cloth-
ing, (speaking scripturally,) but their object
is to ingratiate themselves into favor among
the families of the saints, for the purpose
of leading away the young, and those
that cannot discern the spirit they are of.
	The article referred to, was written by
a lady brought up among the Latter-day
Saints; and after she was more than thirty
years old, became of her own free will and
choice, the fourth wife of a man in "Plural
Marriage." She rejoiced in having found
her affinity, and remarked to her intimate
friends of the congeniality that existed be-
tween herself and husband. She was cer-
tainly old enough to choose for herself, and
was happy as a plural wife, as long as she
was "the petted lamb of the flock," (as she
styles herself,) but when her husband re-
membered he had other wives that requir-
ed his attention, she came to the conclu-
sion that Polygamy was not true, and took
up her pen to write against the principle;
still claiming a man for her husband who
had three wives, (and each of them child-

[Column 2]

ren) previous to her marriage, thereby ac-
knowledging herself a plural wife; how
inconsistent!
	She also makes the assertion that the
"Woman's Exponent" does not represent
the true sentiments of the "Women of
Utah," but is edited by Brigham Young
and Eliza R. Snow, a woman on the shady
side of seventy. Is not this an insult to
the Editors as well as to the women of Zion,
when we all know that it is edited and sup-
ported by women that are true Latter-day
saints both young and old.
	With regard to President Young as edit-
or, his high and exalted position as the
leader of so great a people, gives him plen-
ty to occupy his mind, time and attention
without editing papers. It is the same with
our beloved Sister Snow, who is held in the
highest esteem by both the men and wo-
men of this community. Although she is
seventy-three years of age, her hair is not
yet gray, and she can perform more labor,
mental and physical, than the lady who makes
her age an objection could do at forty. I am
writing matters of fact—truths as they ex-
ist, without the least prejudice or misrep-
resentation.
	I myself, heard the lady say "I cannot
give up the religion of my mother, taught
me from childhood;" yet she denies one
very important principle of that religion.
	If we believe baptism for the remission
of sins, the laying on of hands for the re-
ception of the Holy Ghost, and the ordi-
nances of the house of God, also the bap-
tism for the dead, the resurrection and 
eternal judgement, we must believe in Ce-
lestial Marriage for time and eternity. The
Lord revealed the principle of the ever-
lasting Gospel through the prophet Joseph
Smith for the salvation and exaltation of
the human family, if they will accept it
and live obedient to its requirements.
	We as Latter-day Saints cannot like the
Christain world, accept one portion of the
revealed word of God and reject the others;
neither can we serve God and Mammon,
but like Joshua of old we must choose whom
we will serve. Now is the time my sisters
to choose whether we will serve the Lord
and keep His commandments, or if we will
serve Baal and go after the follies of the
world. Many spirits are in our midst, let
us try the spirits by the law and the testi-
mony, if they speak not according to this
there is no truth in them. "By their fruits
ye shall know them," was the teaching of
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in His
day, so also can we know them in our day.
We can judge the spirits of people by
their conversation. Let us my sisters,
serve God and keep His commandments,
never associating with those who speak
against the Lord's anointed, or the princi-
ples of the Gospel, neither bid them wel-
come to our houses; if we do the spirit of
God will become grieved and our minds
will be darkened.
	This Anti-Polygamist is very anxious to
talk to our young people, and makes the
assertion if she could call a vote from the
young people, nine-tenths of them would
give their vote against Polygamy. I am
thankful to say in this she would be woful-
ly mistaken. I have no doubt she could

[Column 3]

find a number like herself, that have apos-
tatized from the truth, that would give her
their vote, but they would be but a small
minority.
	I fear I have made my article too long,
but I am so much interested in the welfare
of our young people, I would warn them
against the cunning craftiness of those that
are trying to deceive them and lead them
from the truth.
	AUNT MARY
S. L. City, March 5, 1877.


