BREAKING THE SABBATH DAY.

	Children you may deceive your parents,
but you cannot deceive God or your own
conscience. "Honor thy father and moth-
that thy days may be long in the land which
the Lord thy God giveth thee;" this is one
of the first commandments, it was written
by God's own finger on a table of stone, on
Mount Sinai; look again at the first word.
Honor your father and mother by obeying
them cheerfully, when in their sight, and
by your good conduct when out of their
sight. Let the children of pious parents
keep it in mind that they are the represen-
tatives of their parents; their good, moral
character shows that they have been care-
fully disciplined; yet it is too true that some
children however well trained, feel more
ashamed to be seen praying than to be
heard cursing and lying in the presence of
the wicked. Under the law of Moses; the

[Column 2]

disobedient child was to be stoned to death,
in the presence of the whole congregation;
there was no escape from this penalty un-
der the Jewish laws. The Bible in many
places speak expressly against disobedient
children. Read that awful declaration in
Proverbs, 30, 17, "The eye that mocketh at
his father, and despiseth to obey his moth-
er, the ravens of the valley shall pluck it
out, and the young eagles shall eat it." If
you are poor, resolve to be honest and up-
right, you may be rich in the purity of your
character, as the wise man has said, "a good
name is better than precious ointment."
"Go not in the ways of the transgressor,"
if you are seen in such company you will
have to bear part of the disgrace that fol-
lows bad deeds, and in this way lose the
the confidence of all good people. Select
your companions with great care; this is a
question of such importance that we should
not pass it over with a glance; says one,
"why should I be so particular about the
company I keep?" We should be particu-
lar in this matter, for if we form an ac-
quaintance with a disobedient person, we
are liable to partake of the same spirit.
	When I see some of our young people
running wild, breaking the Sabbath day,
taking the name of the Lord in vain, giv-
ing no heed to counsel from parents or
friends; what a stigma on their parents and
to society; what a disgrace to a young man
when placed in circumstances to earn a
name and honorable position in life, to
waste his time and talents disobeying the
laws of God by smoking, drinking and in
breaking the Sabbath. What young lady
of principle would encourage his example
by being in his company. The thought
arises what a vast amount of good might
be done by our young ladies if one and all
would be in earnest and use their influence
by improving in all things, and not only re-
trench, but by their conduct set the exam-
ple. Presidents and Counselors of the As-
sociations, you are the ones to set the exam-
ple for the young to pattern after in dress
and everything that pertains to these In-
situations.
	It is very pleasing to see the young ladies
of this place brave enough to manifest a
spirit of reform by taking a vote not to as-
sociate or even go forth in the dance with
those young men that use spirituous liguors.
Be determined my young sisters to live to
the Lord, thus setting an example before
the young men worthy of imitation; let
them understand that you mean what you
say. I can think of nothing so pure and
angelic as a young woman clothed with the
spirit of God; kind and affectionate to her
parents, and keeping the Sabbath day sac-
red.
	M. J. C.
Bountiful, Davis Co., Feb. 27, '77.


