FLOWERS.

	Home is the head of the river, and an
influence, whether blessed or pernicious,
extended there will effect all its after course.
Hence the noble Frenchwoman was right,
when, in reply to the monarch's question,
"What is needed to secure the prosperity
of France?" she said, "Good mothers."
	A TRUE LADY.—Beauty and style are
not the purest passports to respectability—
some of the noblest specimens of woman-
hood the world has ever seen have present-
ed the plainest and most unprepossessing
appearance. A woman's worth is to be es-
timated by her real goodness of heart aud
the purity and sweetness of her character;
and such a woman; with a kindly disposi-
tion and a well-balanced mind and temper,
is lovely and attractive. Be her face ever
so plain and her form ever so homely, she
makes the best of wives and the truest of
mothers. She has a higher purpose in life
than to flaunt her finery in the streets, or
to gratify her inordinate vanity by attract-
ing flattery and praise from a society whose
compliments are as hollow as they are in-
sinc[-]re.


LITTLE COURTESIES.—The art of "living
together" pleasantly is promoted greatly by
the habitual exchanges of the little courtes-
ies of this life; they are never unimport-
ant, never unacceptable. Shall brothers
and sisters be less careful of the feelings of
one another than those of strangers?
Should there be, between a husband and
wife, less effort at gentleness of deport-
ment and courtesy of expression than is ex-
tended to outsiders who have no special
claims, and may never be seen again?
Shame upon any member of any family
who neglects those affections and those
suavities of deportment toward the mem-
bers of the household, even to the lowest
servant, which cannot fail to elevate the
giver, and to draw from the receiver those
spontaneous reciprocities which makes fam-
ily associations so pleasant.—The Gem.


MISS EMMA ABBOTT has made her "de-
but" in New York City, in opera, and it is
said by newspaper reporters, gives promise
of fair success.


