EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I take the pleasure of communicating a
few of my thoughts to you, thinking that
you are always pleased to hear from your
sisters of the Retrenchment Association.
I attended a meeting of the Young Ladies'
on the 23 inst. and was very much edified.
They have changed their meetings from
the day time to the evening, in conse-
quence of many of the girls attending
school, and meet once a week. The Y. M.
M. I. Association and the Young Ladies'
Retrenchment Association will meet to-
gether once a month, when the minutes of
both Associations of the past three meet-
ing will be held on the second of March
when we anticipate a good time. Our new
Social Hall has been so far completed so as
to admit of dancing in it; and we have had
quite a number of good dances and one
concert in it which have proved entirely
successful. We expect to have another
concert on the fifth of March, which will be
for the benefit of the hall. We cannot say
like some of your correspondents, that we
have had no round dancing since sisters E.
R. Snow, Zina D. Young, M. I. Horne and
E. Howard organized us a little over two
years ago; but I am happy to say that a few
of our sisters have kept the resolutions
sacred; not because they did not enjoy
these pleasures, but because they wished to
obey the counsel of those who are older and
wiser, that they might receive the blessing
which always follows obedience. We as a
Retrenchment Association have commenced
Storing up Grain and we hope to go on in
this good work and cast in our mites with
our sisters who are engaged in preparing
for a day of want. We have had a great
amount of good instructions from our breth-
ren and sisters of late, with regard to the
"signs of the times." I believe that we
fully appreciate the blessings and privileges
with which we are surrounded.
	Hoping that the daughters of Zion may
become more efficient helps in the kingdom
of God, is the humble desire of your sister
in the Gospel of peace.
							M. L. L.
				Corresponding Secretary.

