GENUINE WORK.
 There is an innate satisfaction to be found
in the performance of real labor, mental or
physical. There is a variety of work in this
busy world and there are many ways and
means by which success in these different de-
partments is achieved.  Duty must be one in-
centive in the great labor of life, especially
when persons are brought into circumstances
which place upon them responsibilities and ob-
ligations that are uncongenial and arduous,
perhaps positively distasteful.  To do this sort
of work well, is good discipline, for it must be
entered upon so ardently and be done so thor-
oughly to ensure success, that in all probabil-
ity the desire to accomplish it effectually will
lend a force to action, and the very ardor of
the pursuit will give vigor and inspiration.
Hope of recompense is not really the best so-
lace for arduous struggling and earnest endeav-
or.  It should not in any wise be looked upon
as the main object.  If any occupation is good
enough to warrant its being undertaken at all,
it should be dealt with in the very best manner
possible and with the best grace.  Take into
consideration all the possibilities of disappoint-
ments, and then determine if possible, by skill
and perseverance to withstand them or ward
them off, and to overcome every obstacle and
hindrance.  Bring all the powers of action to
bear, and put forth the best efforts for continued
exertion, and work steadily, diligently and
faithfully. Work, constant and earnest is the
best antidote for melancholy and many other
evils which beset mankind.  Moods and ineli-
nations are but poor lame guides.  Waiting for
Proivdence or for fate to mark out some plan
for future usefulness is not good policy.  Oc-
casionally, perhaps there are strange interpo-
sitions, but man is his own architect, usually,
and can carve out his own future to a greater
or less degree according to his capacity for gen-
uine usefulness, and his untiring diligence and
faithfulness.
 In the business of life there is an immense
amount of satisfaction just from conquering
difficulties; and another pleasure consists in
discharging real obligations.  "If your heart
is in your work" is an old adage, but to throw
your heart into any sort of work you may
have to do, any clear perceptible line of duty,
would help to make the labor pleasant and  en-
tered upon by men with reluctance through
unavoidable circumstances, or contingencies and
real triumph achieved by vigorous, steady ef-
forts making that reluctance respond to the
will which resolves to succeed.
 Work is the universal mission of all, the
Savior himself inculcated this principle in all
His teachings; and employment for old and


young is a safeguard against many evils and
temptations.
	When the utmost has been done to attain a
certain point, or achieve a special success, or
solve some difficult problem, then do not go to
regretting and bemoaning if you fail, but be
sure the failure has come through something
forgotten or overlooked, something which had
not been pre-considered.  Learn to profit by
by such failures they may prove more useful
lessons in life than the most complete and sig-
nal success, for they may prepare and discip-
line the faculties and energies to accomplish
some more difficult and nobler work.
E. B. Wells


