MY DEFENCE OF "MY PURPOSE."

	My dear sisters I think you wrong me,
you say that "my purpose" is a selfish one,
that my interest extends no further than
my fireside, that in my blind selfishness for
my own, I forget the world wide work so
much needed to be done, that I ignore all
the many avenues of usefulness opening
for woman for the elevation of herself, and
am content to settle down in the home cir-
cle as if in that was constituted the height
of woman's ambition and the extent of her
sphere.
	I do not suppose that my idea of ambi-
tion or of my particular sphere would sat-
isfy every one, nor do I doubt but there are
very many ways of doing good within the
reach of all even if they do not engage in
any world-wide efforts for the common and
universal good. Certain it is that if our
practice does not accord with our theory, our
example and influence in our home circle
will not be very beneficial. Suppose I
should spend my time in passing around
from house to house consoling, exhorting


and administering to the wants of others,
while my own home is untidy and disor-
derly, things allowed to go to waste for
want of care, my children running around
neglected, growing wilder and more wick-
ed every day, really, sisters I cannot see
that this is the way for me to accomplish
the most good. It seems to me like passing
by the substance to grasp the shadow. Pa-
tiently the coral insects add atom after atom,
and mite after mite to the structure they
are rearing, until after perhaps thousands
of years it appears above the surface of the
great waters, affording homes and susten-
ance for millions of animal nature. So will
every true woman add her mite to the com-
mon stock for the common good; no matter
how humble her sphere or how small her
anticipations of success; not by overlooking
the ways and means at her feet, nor by
stepping over opportunities within her
reach, of far more certain fruition of good
results, to grasp after something away off,
something apparently more grand and no-
ble, but by doing with her might what her
hands finds to do, letting her light so shine
before men that they may glorify our Fath-
er who is in heaven." All honor to those
noble women who are willing to brave the
scorn of those who would deprive woman
of the social standing to which she has a
God given right, who toil and labor to raise
their sisters to their proper level. And
even in this respect the humblest mother
can throw in her mite, she can teach her
little boy that his sister is by no means his
inferior, that she is entitled to his highest
regard and equal in every respect to him-
self. Let every mother see to it as far as
she has influence, that her daughters have
at least equal chance of education with her
boys. My own opinion is that they ought
to have better, for are they not to be the
future Mothers in Zion? and if as is said
mothers are mostly responsible for the
moulding and shaping of the infant mind,
should not our daughters be educated men-
tally and physically with this in view?
	After all, may be my purpose is a selfish
one, for is it not for our own individual sal-
vation that we are prompted to do the best
we can? and it is impossible for us to gain
salvation for any others unless they them-
selves are willing to become acceptable with
God. At any rate I hope to labor on and
patiently await the time, when with the
Lord's blessing, I can send into the field
some more effectual workers than myself. It
is my constant care and prayer that they
may prove so.
				ESTHER A. BENNION.
	Vernon, Feb. 26, 1877.


