NOTES AND NEWS

	THE ASPECT of Vesuvius is now said to
be threatening and according to the most
reliable accounts there is a tendency to an
explosion, such as occur periodically. It is
authentically stated that up to the seven-
teenth century the number of eruptions
was less than four to each hundred years.
In the eighteenth century there were twen-
ty-three, and in this nineteenth century
twenty-six have already occurred. The
mountain is decidedly restless, there is a
subdued roar from the depths, which tell
of a surging sea of lava. 
	THE BOSTON "Woman's Journal" says
Sir George Campbell of England, recently
at a public banquet, in proposing the health
of the Queen, said he was not a Woman's
Rights man in the common acceptation, but
he wished the Salic law might be so
reversed in England that woman should
hereafter occupy the throne. The senti-
ment was received with applause, in which
two members of Parliament who were pres-
ent joined. 
	THERE IS a bright prospect now that the
statue designed to commemorate the first
Centennial anniversary of American inde-
pendence will be completed: the joint work
of the French and American people. The
statue will be the representation of the
Goddess of Liberty, and will be located at
Bedloe's Island, near New York harbor,
where it may be seen by all going out or
coming in from the great Metropolis of the
United States. The statue will be one hun-
dred feet in height, the pedestal eighty
feet. The goddess will wear a crown upon
her head from which will burst out beams
of light, illuminating at night the sky and 
all around. 
	FAMINE IN CHINA- England and Amer-
ica are called upon to aid in raising funds
to assist the Chinese in this their hour of
distress. "This fearful calamity has burst
out in the province of Shan Tung in the
northern part of China, but the greatest
distress is in the prefecture of Wu Ting Fu,
a densely populous part of the country,
where the crops have wholly failed." For
three months it is said the people there
have been living on the barks and roots of
trees. Multitudes are dying of starvation.
Many persons have taken their own lives,
and some parents have even buried their
children alive. Letters have been sent to
the merchants of Shanghai, Canton and
Hong Kong, soliciting help in the strong-
est terms. American Missionaries there
have suggested the most proper methods
of sending funds.


