EDITORS EXPONENT:
	A feeling of interest and a desire to do
my part with the rest of my sisters prompts
me to write a few of my feelings. Often
when meditating I have asked myself this
question, what can I do to forward the
work of God? For I have no greater desire
than to do my part and be classed with the
noble handmaids of the Almighty. When
swallowed up in the work and cares of my
household I found but little time or oppor-
tunity to go out, except on the Sabbath to
meeting, where I would hear that which
comforted and stimulated me to endure all
trials, and to perform my duties as a wife
and mother. When I was weary and my
spirits would begin to lag, I was cheered
with the thought that the Sabbath day was
drawing near, and I could again have the
privilege of listening to the servants of God,
where I knew that I would be again re-
newed to press forward.
	I have sometimes felt a little conscience-
stricken when I thought that perhaps I could
have done more, but there is no one but
mothers who know or can ever imagine the
mother's complete responsibilities; and we
are not judges of each other. A mother's
work is never done as long as her strength
holds out. When she can go no longer
Providence provides some other way; at
least, this has been my experience. It has
been my study for years to try to the best
of my ability and all the knowledge I could
gain, to train up my children in the right
way, and arrive at the best method to lead
and manage each one according to their dif-
ferent dispositions, and also how to make
the best use of what little talent God has
given me to improve upon. Since my
health has been delicate I have been going
through a pretty hard school, but I feel to
acknowledge the hand of God in all my
trials, for I can now look back and see that
I have learned a great many useful lessons;
and I thank the Lord for them as much or
more than I would had my path been more
easy and my burdens been more light, for I
have learned the worthlessness of all things
that are not controlled by the Holy Spirit.
My prayers has been continually that God
would lead me to do His will, and I feel an
inward admonition that I am now doing
just what he wants me to do to prepare my-
self, as well as those he has put under my
charge for a work which will in the future
do much more towards rolling on His cause
than I could do anywhere else. I have
never felt that I should make any great
noise in the world. The Lord intended each
one to fill a certain niche, and I know of
none at present that I could fill outside of
my own family circle. Here I find enough
to do in trying to lead and influence those
around me to live their religion, as well as
other duties which I am required to per-
form, and if I can enjoy the fruits of my
labor my joy will be very great. A little
work done well is much more worthy of
praise than a great deal badly done, and I
believe that when the Lord has something
more for me to do that it will be made
known to me, because I stand ready and
willing to do anything that he wills for me
to do. I am seeking to remove prejudice
by writing letters, and sending our papers
to my friends and kindred in the East and
West, and warning them of the terrible ca-
lamities which will overtake them like a
thief in the night, telling them that all who
will not take up sword against their neigh-
bors must needs flee to Zion for safety.
	Last winter after being sometime sick and
low-spirited, I was administered to by Sis-

[Column 2]
ters E. R. Snow and M. T. Smoot; my
health and spirits revived. I commenced
writing sketches of my own history, and I
was blessed in doing it; I was interested,
and never while occupied in that way was I
lonesome; I forgot the things around me,
so far as the world was concerned, I was
carried back, was living my life over again,
as it were, some portions of which never
failed to bring tears to my eyes, and other
scenes brought sweetest joy. This winter
I have been requested to furnish my moth-
er's life, or experience in this church, for
the Woman's Book. I have labored care-
fully and diligently in trying to remember
and gather up the most interesting items.
	I wish my sisters to know I am wide
awake in the spirit of the Gospel, and my
spirits have not been as buoyant for years
past as they have within the few past
months.
	There is a very important work for moth-
ers to do—to watch and teach their children,
especially daughters, that they do not be-
come lifted up in their hearts above other
young sisters, which is too prevalent among
the daughters of Zion. I see so much of it
that I believe I should take it for my first
text if I was a public speaker; but I can at
least preach from it at home, as I have ever
done, and I would feel very sorry if one of
my daughters should forget herself so far
as to feel above speaking or associating with
any that she had ever known who were re-
spectable. One Latter-day Saint is just as
good as another. It is the poor and the
meek who have the promise, and I wish to
be with those who will be considered worthy
when the Lord makes up his jewels, and I
also wish to keep those that the Lord has
placed under my charge in remembrance of
these things, and of their own unworthi-
ness, instead of talking about others who
may be much better than themselves, al-
though SOCIETY has condemned them.
	The best are not yet perfect, "but charity
covereth a multitude of sins." Whosoever
exalteth himself shall be abased; and he
that humbleth himself shall be exalted."
Pride generally exposes a person to many
effronts, and humility is the surest method
of gaining respect, and how true it is,
that we must become as little children, be-
fore we can enter into our Father's king-
dom, and were he not more merciful than
we, to forgive, what hope could we have of
salvation? It is the privilege of each one
to live in a way that they can know and
understand the will of God concerning
themselves. I find that my path is becom-
ing smoother since I learned to acknowledge
His hand in all things, even in the most
common occurrences of life. I know that
if I cannot at first see and comprehend the
meaning that if I wait a little all will turn
out much more satisfactory to myself than
it could if I had planned it. If all could
come to this conclusion they would find out
the truth of Jesus' words when he said,
"My yoke is easy and my burden is light."
	That we may all become of one heart and
one mind is the prayer of your sister,
