WASHINGTON.

Land of the West! though passing brief the record of 
	"thine age,
Thou hast a name that darkens all on history's wide page!
Let all the blasts of fame ring out--thine shall be loudest
		far;
Let others boast their satellites--thou hast the planet star.
Thou hast a name whose characters of light shall ne'er de-
		part; 
'Tis stamped upon the dullest brain, and warms the cold-
		est heart;
A war-cry fit for any land where freedom's to be won.
Land of the west! it stands alone--it is thy Washington!
Rome had its Ceasar, great and brave; but stain was on
		his wreath -
He lived the heartless conqueror and died the tyrant's
		death.
France had its eagle; but its wings, though lofty they
		might soar,
Were spread in false ambition's flight, and dipped in mur-
		der's gore.
Those Hero gods, whose mighty sway would fain have
		chained the waves--
Who flashed their blades with tiger zeal, to make a world
		of slaves -
Who, though their kindred barred the path, still fiercely
		waded on;
Oh! where shall be their "glory" by the side of Washing-
		ton?
He fought but not with love of strife; he struck but to de-
		fend;
And ere he turned a people's foe; he sought to be a friend.
He strove to keep his country's right by reason's gentle
		word,
And sighed when fell injustice threw the challenge sword
		to sword.
He stood the firm, the calm, the wise, the patriot and
		sage;
He showed no deep, avenging hate--no burst of despot
		rage.
He stood for liberty and truth, and dauntlessly led on,
Till shouts of victory gave forth the name of Washington.
No ear of triumph bore him through a city filled with
		grief.
No groaning captives at the wheels proclaimed him victor
		chief;
He broke the gyves of slavery with strong and high dis-
		dain;
And cast no sceptre from the links when he had crushed
		the chain.
	He saved his land, but did not lay his soldier trappings
		down
To change them for the regal vest, and don a kingly
		crown.
Fame was too earnest in her joy--too proud of such a son,
To let a robe and title mask a noble Washington.
England, my heart is truly thine - my loved, my native
earth!
The land that holds a mother's grave, and gave that
mother birth!
Oh, keenly sad would be the fate, that thrust me from thy
		shore,
And faltering my breath, that sighed, "Farewell forever
		more!"
But did I meet such adverse lot, I would not seek to dwell
Where olden heroes wrought the deeds for Homer's song
		to tell.
Away, thou gallant ship! I'd cry, and bear me swiftly on,
But bear me from my own fair land to that of Washing-
ton.
