[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | February | Issue: 12 | Title: THE PRESENCE OF GOD. | Author: Unknown]

THE PRESENCE OF GOD.

 I STOOD in the bleak, solemn midnight
	On the shore of the fathomless sea, 
And knew that some deep wave was bringing
	The baptism of Death to me.
The stars overhead coldly glittered
	Like swordpoints which pierced to my soul;
The frowning, unfriendly sky glowered,
	And breakers with menaces rolled,

Chill winds swept the billow-tops moaning 
	Low dirges deep burdened with woe;
Mysterious whispers and groaning
	Oppressed me with horror, and oh! 
The vast, smileless universe turning
	Away from my shuddering soul,
Sick, sick with a terrible yearning 
	To be not, to go not, alone.

So wide was the infinite Ever,
	So endless Immensity spread,
So hollow and empty the Never,
	So awful the home of the Dead,
Though open the wonderful gateway
	’Tween Here and the uuknown There, 
Though beckoned by Nature’s deep secrets,
	My soul reeled in fear and despair.

“So lonely!” I cried, “oh, so lonely!
	How can I go forth all alone
To leave this warm life which has known me,
	With no kindred hand in my own?”
The wind swept my puny breath landward 
	And angrily roared in my ear, 
Then every sound shuddered and fainted,
	While, frightened, I panted to hear.

Dread Nature breathed low to my spirit
	And drew her dark curtains aside;
Awe—stricken, amazed and confounded,
	I scanned all Creation so wide, 
Oh, had I been borne to the regions
	Extending away and away,
Beyond and beyond the bright legions
	Of systems and suns on their way.

I saw circling planets fly faster
	Than lightning’s swift wheels, ’till at last
They flew, like night moths to a candle,
	Their suns’ fires to feed, far and fast
Fair worlds newly born waxed and blossomed,
	Dead moons faded, shrunken and rent,
And comets sped rushing through systems
	As swift, faithful messengers sent.

I saw those bright sparks from the Ever 
	Those glimmers which men call the Soul,
So limited, blinded and baffled,

[column 2]
	In the struggle that clay to control,
So groping like seeds to the sunlight,
	So beaten, so bruised and so tost,
Yet embryo Gods straining upward—
	No effort, no agony lost.

I saw grasses gratefully growing,
	Exultingly filling their span;
And trains of ants coming and going,
	So glad to be part of God’s plan.
A chorus of joy filled the spaces
	Between the vast systems of worlds
For Life with its gifts and its graces
	And Death which new vistas unfurls.

I lifted my eyelids; but stricken
	And shriveled as lightning had sped,
I fell like a stone. I had looked in
	The eyes of my God, deep and dread.
Eternity lay there enfolded,
	And mystery fathomless rolled;
But in infinite tenderness spoke He,
	Reviving and strength’ning my soul.

Oh, fearest thou death because lonely?
	E’en so, son of man, was thy birth;
The gates Life and Death admit only
	One soul to or fro from the earth.
You looked in mine eyes and fell shrieking,
	When loneliness ’self you saw there—
Perfection, which all life is seeking,
	Is lonely because yet so rare,

When man feels this presence pervade him,
	From night’s hollow orb, or the roar
Of waves o’er the turbulent ocean,
	My spirit is shadowing o’er,
But upward and evermore upward
	All life grows through pleasure or pain, 
Throngh failure or triumph still mounting
	The cycles of infinite gain.

All good lies enshrined in my bosom,
	Approach thou and freely partake;
Love, Wisdom and Life Everlasting,
	With infinite joy in their wake. 
Come, come! O my children, I call you;
	Mount, mount! By the ways I have trod;
Let Strife, Pain and Death not appal you
	For I am your lonely God.

I awoke, and behold I’d been dreaming;
	I pondered deep truths in my soul;
Night, solitude, death have a seeming
	Of loneliness awful and cold,
Which is God’s holy presence enclouding,
	His voice which in silence we hear,
And death but withdraws the vail shrouding
	A higher and holier sphere.

Though, loth to tread paths unfamiliar,
	Thou shrinkest in cowardly dread,
Of the unknown just seen in the distance,
	Take courage, my soul, lift the head,
For onward and evermore onward
	Progresses a conquering way
To God and His glory; then forward
	Press, fearless,through Night and through Day.

No more let sweet Solitude chill thee,
	Nor moaning winds shake thee with fear, 
Nor Death with cold dread ever fill thee,
	Though draweth he momently near.
Oh, come he today or tomorrow.
	With gladness my feet shall be shod!
And, waiting, I’ll still struggle toward
	The lonely perfection of God.
							LU DALTON.


