[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | February | Issue: 12 | Title: DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON. | Author: Unknown]

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	MUSIC and the Drama are two of the
most powerful agencies of civiliza-
tion. Brigham Young, the leader of
modern Israel in its exodus to these moun-
tains, with his profound knowledge of hu-
man nature, typed with his New England
sagacity, evinced consummate wisdom in
supplying his people with the means of
social and physical revivification. The
weariness of travel, and the labors of mak-
ing new homes, were enlivened by joyous
music, familiar songs, with the merry
dance and social ball. Arrived in the valley
of the Great Salt Lake the dance to the
Mormon, became almost like an institution,
and the ball a social sacrament. Out of
the Nauvoo brass band which left Nauvoo
with Brigham Young indirectly grew our
first theatrical company. An amalgama-
tion was effected between the members of
the band and certain ladies and gentlemen
possessing dramatic instincts and predilec-
tions, several of whom had also been con-
nected with theatrical, before they came in-
to the isolation of these mountains. The
project of organizing a company with a
combination of the musical and dramatic
elements, received the hearty sanction of
Brigham Young, and he at once became
the patron of the Salt Lake stage. The
first dramatic company organized consisted
of H. B. Clawson, James Ferguson, Phi
Margetts, John Kay, H. K. Whitney, Rob1
Campbell, R. T. Burton, William Clayton
and others; the ladies were Miss Orum,
Miss Judd (afterwards Mrs. Clawson) and
Miss Mary Badlam. Of these, only the
first three had received any professional
training. It bore the name of the
“Musical and Dramatic Company.” The
orchestra was composed of members of the
Nauvoo Band.
	There was a company now, but no
theater, nor even a hall of capacity sufficient
to give a public performance, while the
community were socially striving for public
amusements and recreation to enliven the
isolation of “a thousand miles from every-
where,” as their locality was then descri-
bed. The majority of the citizens in 1851
and 1852 were fresh from a land of theaters.
England, of thirty-five years ago was still
the England of Shakespear, and not of
Boucicault. There were those in Salt Lake
City who had seen Macready, some who
had seen John and Charles Kemble, their
sister, Sarah Siddons,and Edmund Kean on
the stage in their native land. The major-
ity of the British people in the valley at
that period were from London, Birming-

[Column 2]
ham, Manchester, Leeds, Yorkshire and
Edinburgh, where the common people for
generations have been accustomed to go to
the theater and the philharmonic concerts,
to see the best of acting and hear the
divinest singing for a few pence. Such a
community could not possibly have got
along without their theater, nor been con-
tent with their isolation, without something
to awaken pleasurable reminiscences of
their native land Their sagacious head
sensed all this and he at once gave to the
newly formed “Musical and Dramatic Com-
pany,” the “Old Bowery” where the con-
gregation of saints met for Sabbath wor-
ship, and it was there—in the only temple
or tabernacle Zion had in those days—that
home theatricals took their rise. If the
Church stooped in this, she but gave her
helping hand to civilization, without losing
aught of her own caste, for those actors
and musicians were her own ordained elders
and high priests. The first play ever
produced it Utah was one called “The
Triumph of Innocence” in which Mr. H.
P. Richards took a leading part, but this
was previous to the existence of any organ-
ized dramatic association. Historical interest
is always associated with the first programme
of every notable institution, therefore we
mention here the first cast of the first dra-
matic company of Utah. The play pro-
duced on the occasion was Robert Macaire.
The cast was as follows:
Robert Macaire...............John Kay.
Jaques Strop,............H. B. Clawson.
Pierre,................Phillip Margetts.
Marie,......................Miss Orum.
Clementina,..............Miss M. Judd.
Several other plays were produced during
the season and it is said they were creditab-
ly performed by the company. More than
a thousand persons witnessed each of these
performances, showing that the theatrical
audiences in the “Old Bowery” in the win-
ter of 1851-2 were larger than the average
audiences in 1885 with a Madame Ristori
playing her magnificent role of historical
plays in the “Big Theater.”
	The company played in the “Old
Bowery” for two years during which time
a number of high class plays were pro-
duced in one of which, “The Stranger” the
brilliant James Ferguson took the title
role.
	In 1851 the company was re-organized
under Bishop Raleigh as president, and
named the “Deseret Dramatic Association.”
In 1852 the historic “Social Hall” was
built and opened by the association, with
the performance of Buhver’s classical play
of the “Lady of Lyons.” A splendid or-
chestra under the direction of Professor
Ballo contributed to the eclat of the oc-
casion. The association now numbered
among its members, John T. Caine, David
McKenzie, D. O. Calder, W. C. Dunbar,
Henry Maiben and others; and with this
added strength were enabled to cast first
class plays, but after a few years the Utah
war broke up for a time both the theatrical
performances and the Dramatic Association
itself.
	On the return of Phil. Margetts from
England, he organized a company under
the name of the “Mechanic’s Dramatic
Association,” and with Harry Bowring,
Henry McEwan, Mrs. Marian Bowring and
others revived the social life of the people,
and began a series of performances in a
room fitted up in H. E. Bowring’s house,
with stage and scenery painted by W. C.

[Column 3]
Morris. This was the first place in Utah
that bore the distinctive appellation of
Theater, and marks the birth of the dra-
matic era proper, and led to the building
of the Salt Lake Theater, and the re-organ-
ization of the Deseret Dramatic Association.
	It was just at the outbreak of the civil war
in America that the theatrical history pro-
per of our city commenced.
	The Utah war was a memory of the past,
Camp Floyd was evacuated, all in Zion
was peace, for though the nation was en-
gaged in war neither Utah nor California
had the honor of taking part in it. In 1861,
our citizens saw a colossal building in pro-
cess of erection and it was known that
Brigham Young designed to give the Mor-
mons a great theater, one of the best in
America, and one that in its appointments
and accessories should bear favorable com-
parison with the theaters of the East
	The Salt Lake Theater was opened to the
public on March 6th 1862, and stands a
monument of our Rocky Mountain civili-
zation, emulating in many respects its
prototype, the Old Globe Theater of Lon-
don which under Shakespeare’s manage-
ment, voiced the dramatic genius of a new
epoch. 
	The ceremony of the dedication of the
new theater, was the remarkable event of
the opening, and nothing in the history of
the English and American stage is so
unique in its object and sentiment. Re-
served seats were placed before the curtain
for the First Presidency and officials of the
Church, and at the appointed hour Brigham
Young as president of the Dramatic As-
sociation called the house to order. The
choir sang the hymn “Lo, on the mountain
tops appearing,” and President Daniel H.
Wells offered the dedication prayer in which
he imploud the blessing of the most High
upon the building and all its appointments,
and upon the actors and actresses and all
who perform in it, and dedicating the whole
to virtue, sobriety, and excellence, for the
glory of God and the prosperity and good
of this people. After the prayer the or-
chestra and choir performed the “Star
Spangled Banner” and the President gave
an impressive address on the true mission of
the drama. Other addresses followed inter-
spersed with songs and music.
	Not in the whole history of the stage,
ancient or modern, was ever a theater thus
endowed as a sacred dramatic temple for the
people. Probably Brigham Young at that
time had never heard the text of the play
of Hamlet, yet he described the object of
the drama as it was designed by him for the
Salt Lake Theater very much like the spirit
and exposition of Hamlet to the players;
“The purpose of playing, whose end, both
at the first, and now, was, and is, to hold
as ’twere the mirror up to nature; to show
virtue her own feature, scorn her own im-
age, and the very age and body of the
time, his form and pressure,” and it may
be regarded as one of the strange things of
dramatic history that Brigham Young, a
man of no art culture but what was self
evolved, the high priest of a despised
church, should have lifted the theater to the
conception of the great high priests of
dramatic art, and given it its proper place
alongside the church, as one of the great
teachers of humanity, as powerful in its in-
fluence on the intellectual, as the church is
on the spiritual development of society.
	The opening pieces played in the Salt
Lake Theater on March 8, 1862 were the
“Pride of the Market” and “State Secrets,”


[Column 1]
and the first season under the management
of Clawson and Caine was a gratifying success.
	Before the opening of the second season, 
the veteran actor Mr. T. A. Lyne was sent
for by his former pupil, Manager Clawson,
and engaged as tutor to the company. Dur-
ing this season the following fine plays were
given. "The Honeymoon" with John T.
Caine as Duke Aranza, Phil Margetts as
the Mock Duke; "Virginus" with Bernard
Snow in the title role; "Damon and
Pythias" with Lyne as Damon, and "Pizarro"
with John T. Caine, Lyne, J. F. Simmons
Mrs. Marian Bowring in the cast. Later
on, Lyne played Virginius and again Da-
mon, in which he has been acknowledged
to have had no equal in America, excepting
Forrest himself, then as Shylock in the
"Merchant of Venice" gave a fine exposi-
tion of "the jew that Shakespeare drew"
in which Edmund Kean, won the scepter of
the English stage. In the third season
1863-4 the Irwins reigned and gave a great
variety of plays, being well supported by
the home company. In the "Colleen
Bawn" Dave McKenzie scored a triumph
as Danny Mann; and his impersonation has
never been excelled on the Salt Lake stage.
	In 1864 Mr. George Pauncefort, an ac-
complished English actor, with Mrs.
Florence Bell, came to Salt Lake City, and
alternated his light classics against T. A.
Lyne's grander, statelier parts of the old 
school, giving to the public a pleasing 
variety of the old legitimate and new legi-
timate class of plays. This refined and
finished artist gave as his opening play
"The Romance of a Poor Young Man" in 
which he wrought out one of the most ac-
complished and natural works of dramatic
art. Lyne followed the next night with
the "Merchant of Venice" and the two 
artists held the boards alternately during
the season of 1864-5. Among the plays
given during this engagement were "Mac-
beth," "Hamlet," "Don Cesar de Bazan,"
"Belphegor," "Damon and Pythias," and
under the stimulus afforded by such finish-
ed performances, the stock company at-
tained to much greater excellence and were
capable of executing star plays of the 
second class. The queen of the Salt Lake
stage was undoubtedly Julia Dean Hayne,
who made her debut in Salt Lake City in
1865 in the play of "Camille" a represen-
tation that stirred the heart of the Theater
going public of the city to profound hom-
age to her genius and art. So cordially did
she reciprocate this kind feeling, that she
remained here nearly two years, swaying
the scepter over the local company and
educating them by her brilliant example.
Her repertoire included "Medea" "Lucretia
Borgia" "Lady Macbeth" "School for 
Scandal" "Parthenia" in "Ingomar" "Lady
of Lyons" "Evadne" and other plays of a 
similar class, every one of which in her
hands were works of the highest dramatic
art.
	During this decade the stars of the stock
company were Miss Alexander, Miss Adams,
Miss Lockhart, Nellie Colebrook, David
McKenzie, James Hardie, John Lindsay
and Phil Margetts. With the retirement o[-]
David McKenzie from the stage in 1869, the
old Deseret Dramatic Company may be
said to have ended its career. From 1870
to 1880 the theatrical business in Salt Lake
City declined both in interest and prestige.
The new combination did not come up to 
the old company in talent or enthusiasm,
and their performances interspersed with

[Column 2]
the engagements of a few notable profes-
sionals passing across the continent, served
just to keep alive the dramatic spirit, which
now awaited its re-incarnation in the Home
Dramatic Club of recent fame.
	This club the outcome of the Wasatch
and Azalea Literary societies numbered
among its members, the sons and daughters
of many of the old time histrionic cele-
brities, a generation of amateurs, who drew
their first draughts of dramatic inspiration
from witnessing the performances of twenty
five years ago. Under the tuition of one
of the former-day stars, Mr. David
McKenzie, the club developed a marked
degree of dramatic ability, and when they 
made their first bow to a Salt Lake audience,
in "The Romance of a Poor Young Man"
their success revived the recollection of the
former triumphs of our local artists. The
cast was as follows:

Manuel .............. Laron Cummings.
Dr. Desmarets ............ O. F. Whitney.
Mons De Berannes ........ H. M. Wells.
Gasper Laroque .......... J. D. Spencer.
M. Nouret ................ C. S. Burton.
Alain ...................... H. Horsley.
Marguerite Laroque .. Miss Lottie Claridge.
Mlle Helonin ...... Mrs. Della Cummings.
Mad. Aubrey .......... Miss Lida Wells.
Mad Laroque ........ Mrs. S. H. Clawson.
Christine ............ Little Ivy Clawson.

	The performance was a complete success,
and was presented again and again to still
larger audiences than the one that greeted 
their opening night, thus proving that the 
decadence of home drama was not due to
lack of appreciation on the part of a people
who had loved the Salt Lake stage from
the night when the footlights first blazed
there.
	The personel of the new club did much
to pre-dispose the public in its favor, and
though as years passed on, changes were
made in the organization, the names of the
members remained much the same, younger
branches of the family taking the places of
those who retired for various reasons to
private life. Instead of the heavy dramas
and tragedies which afforded the triumphs
of early days, they aimed at modern me-
thods. For the fire and passion of the
romantic and classical plays they substituted
the finesse and polish of emotional dramas
and eccentric comedies of the present
school, and from the time this club first
produced the "Romance" until the present,
it has continued to be the only dramatic
organization of importance to which the
city could lay claim. During the twelve
years of its existence, the club has presen-
ted a pleasing variety of plays with un-
wavering success. Their repertoire includes
"The Two Orphans" "Rosedale" "Pique"
"Extremes" "The Life of an Actress"
"Saratoga" "Diplomacy" "Storm Beaten"
"The Silver king" " The Banker's Daugh-
ter" "The Green Lanes of England"
"O. K. G." "Lights o'London" "Con-
fusion" and "Hazel Kirke." In "Con-
fusion," which is certainly the most finish-
ed piece of dramatic work ever done by the 
club, Lottie Claridge the leading lady, made
her greatest hit as Lucretia Trickeby, and
John D. Spencer as Christopher Blizzard
gave one of his most delightful characteri-
zations. Among the other members of the 
club (who by the way are all Utah born)
who have distinguished themselves might
be also mentioned Mr. H. M. Wells, the 
leading man, whose rendition of the parts
of Grimaldi in the "Life of an Actress,"

[Column 3]
Bob Sackett in Saratoga, and Christian
Christianson in Storm Beaten are artistic
triumphs; Mr. B. S. Young, who fills a line
of old men, character and comedy delinea-
tions, in a style peculiarly his own; and
Mr. H. G. Whitney who as manager of the
club, has contributed in no small degree to
its financial and dramatic success. Miss
Edith Clawson, might almost be said to
have been cradled on the stage; she was the
reigning "infant" for years, and her por-
trayal of Prince Arthur when Junius Bru-
tus Booth played King John, was one of 
Salt Lake's early theatrical sensations.
When the veteran Couldock was brought
from New York to play an engagement of
six performances with the club in Hazel
Kirke, Edith Clawson took the title role,
and in it soon merited recognition of her
talents as an emotional actress. Her sister,
Birdie Cummings is deservedly popular in 
soubrette roles, in which she has achieved 
decided success, while Ivy Clawson, an-
other member of the same talented family,
is a pleasing actress in ingenue and boy's
parts.
	The club has frequently played, with pro-
fessionals, and has always striven conscien-
tiously to present a high class of theatrical
attractions, and to produce its plays up to
the very best standard. In this endeavor
they have been ably seconded by Mr. C. S.
Burton, the present manager of the Salt
Lake Theater who shows no disposition to
allow the high purposes which animated its
distinguished founder to be swerved from,
and under his management, the theater
maintains its prestige as one of the most
popular dramatic temples of the Western
slope.
	In 1882 the Walker opera house, an ele-
gant and artistically arranged bijou theater
was opened, and until its destruction by 
fire a few years ago, was the scene of many
local and travelling dramatic and operatic
successes.
	Salt Lake City is universally conceded to
be "the best show town in the West" pos-
sessing the best amateur dramatic and
musical organizations in the country, at the
same time, the dramatic taste, critical dis-
cernment, and artistic culture of the com-
munity foreshadow a glorious art future un-
folding for Utah, when one of the brightest
niches in the world's temple of fame will 
be accorded to the genius of the land of the
Honey Bee.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


