[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | February | Issue: 12 | Title: DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON.

	WESTWARD the star of music takes its
way.  The sovereignty of the realm of
music in America had long been divided
among the older cities of the republic, when
in 1893, Utah, the young giant of the
West, entered the arena to contest for the
World’s Fair prizes, and sent to Chicago a
picked  choir of 250 voices to compete with
the artistic and famed choral organizations
of the Old and New World for the crowning
honors of the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
Much praise was expressed for the nerve
and pluck of this ambitious but hitherto
undistinguished competitor, which was
changed to astonishment and wonder when
the Utah choir stepped triumphantly to the
second place, and almost snatched from the
brows of the Cymric bards the laurels of
their forefathers. The following history of
music in Utah will show the gradual de-
velopment of the divine art, that led to the
attainment of the present high standard of
musical taste and culture in this community,
and rendered possible the magnificent
achievements of the Utah Choir.
	In the growth of civilization and the un-
folding of social development, music and
her twin sister poetry take precedence of all
the arts, and present an unmistakable index

[Column 2]
to national character. The pioneer settlers
who crossed the Rocky Mountains to make
homes in the valley of the Great Salt Lake
were certain in the early stage of their
peculiar civilization to manifest the genius
of music, and the hosts of Israel beguiled
many an hour of their weary march across
the continent by singing the songs of Zion.
	The first musical organization formed in
Utah was a brass band, composed of fifteen
musicians, under the leadership of Captain
William Pitt, which commenced its labors
in 1850 and for several years furnished the
music on every anniversary and local cele-
bration, and assisted the first dramatic as-
sociation in its representations. In 1857
Dominico Ballo, an Italian, highly endowed
with the musical genius of his race came to
Salt Lake City, and electrified the people
with his performances on the clarionet, on
which instrument he was unrivalled, both
in tone, style and execution. Soon after
his arrival he organized “Ballo's Band” of
twenty instruments, viz, seven B flat
clarionets, one E flat, played by himself,
two piccolos, two first cornets, two second
cornets, one opheicleide, three brass horns,
one tenor, trombone and drums. This
combination created great excitement on its
first appearance, and continued to gain
power and renown by its skilful rendition
of some of the most difficult compositions
of the day. Ballo was a fine composer,
though but few of his works survive, and
his name will always be held in reverence
as the most cultured of the musical pioneers
of Utah.
	In 1853 David O. Calder, the pioneer
class teacher of vocal music came to Salt
Lake City, and settled over Jordan where
he taught the first singing school in the
Territory. In 1861 he organized two
classes of two hundred members each for
instruction in the Curwen tonic sol-fa me-
thod, which was the first introduction of
the system in America. He compiled, ar-
ranged and printed the class books used.
In 1862 Mr. Calder organized the Deseret
Musical Association, composed of two hun-
dred picked singers from the different classes
under his tuiton. This society gave several
concerts in the Theater and Tabernacle with
marked success, and during its existence
stimulated musical culture among the peo-
ple of Utah.
	In 1862, Professor Charles J. Thomas,
who had for years been associated with
some of the principal theater orchestras in
London, came to Salt Lake City, and at
once took charge of the orchestra at the
new Salt Lake Theater, then just opened,
and under his leadership it maintained for
several years a high standard of excellence.
As a conductor of the Tabernacle choir,
Professor Thomas did some excellent work,
and he long held a ruling musical position.
	Professor John Tullidge also deserves
mention at this time as a fine tenor singer
and composer. His name will be remem-
bered as long as his anthem “How beauti-
ful upon the mountains" delights the ears
of a Salt Lake audience. 
	The man who did most for the early
musical progress of Salt Lake City, and
the establishment of the legitimate profess-
ion is undoubtedly Professor George Care-
less. Born in London, and trained with
some of the greatest instrumentalists of the
day, under the batons of such masters as
Sir Michael Costa, Sir Jules Benedict, and
other famous conductors, Mr. Careless
brought to Salt Lake City in 1865 such
musical genius, brilliant execution and


[Column 1]
talent for leadership as produced a complete
revolution in musical circles and created
quite a furore of enthusiasm among the
music loving people of the community.
During the earlier years that he held the 
leadership of the Theater orchestra he pro-
duced a number of musical plays, including
Macbeth, The Brigand, Aladdin and
Cinderella, for the two latter he composed
the entire music, consisting of solos, duets
choruses and dramatic interludes. During
this engagement he conducted the first opera
ever given in Utah, the Grand Duchess, by
the Howson troupe,
	In 1875, the great musical event in the
city, was the performance of the oratorio of
the Messiah by the Philharmonic Society,
under the training and conductor-ship of
Professor Careless, with over two hundred
singers, and a full orchestra. The perfor-
mance was a great musical triumph, and 
was pronounced by the critics of the day a
presentation far superior both in its vocal
and orchestral excellence, to the perfor-
mance of the same oratorio in San Francis-
co with Madame Anna Bishop and or the
vocal celebrities in the principal parts. In
the instrumentation, the first violins and
the cornet obligato of Mr. Mark Croxall,
were particularly fine; while among the
vocalists, the palm of excellence belonged
without any question to Mrs. Careless, the
wife of Professor Careless, whose rendition
of “I know that my Redeemer liveth” was
simply perfection. Her pure, sweet, bell-
like tones, and her exquisite delivery, in-
tense with feeling, rose almost in this
selection to the exalted pitch of epic song.
The fact that this oratorio could be execut-
ed in such perfection by a local association,
and call out a high class audience fully
capable of appreciating such music, proves
that Salt Lake City even then was one of
the great musical centers of the world, a
pre-eminence that her subsequent history
proudly maintains.
	Professor Careless also conducted the cele-
brated Parepa Rosa Concerts in 1868, the
Anna Bishop concert in the Tabernacle
and the grand Wilhelmj concerts in the
Theater in 1880, and received from the
great virtuoso the highest praise and many 
marks of personal esteem.
	In 1879, Professor Careless gave Sulli-
van’s opera of “Pinafore” and later “The 
Mikado,” both brilliant successes, and
rendered exclusively by home talent. In
1885 he succeeded in organizing the largest
local orchestra ever brought together in this
city, consisting of forty-five members.
During his partnership in the musical busi-
ness with Mr. D. O. Calder, the firm im-
ported a large number of musical instru-
ments of all kinds, and published the “Salt
Lake Musical Times,” the first musical
publication west of Chicago. For fourteen
years Professor Careless was the trainer
and conductor of the Tabernacle choir, and
by his faithful and unwearied labors, laid
the foundation of that artistic excellence
which rendered its recent brilliant success
possible. To Mrs. Lavinia Careless, be-
longs by right of her rare genius the
highest niche of fame among our musical
stars. With a voice of phenomenal pur ity
and resonance, united with the most perfect
control and culture, she so educated Salt
Lake City audiences to quality and subli-
mity in music, that only a Patti could sing
here without being adversely compared
with her.
	In giving the musical history of Salt

[Column 2]
Lake City, prominent mention must be
made of the grand organ in the Tabernacle.
When it was commenced in 1866, all the
materials necessary for building it had to be
obtained from the East, and hauled across
the plains, and over the mountains in wag-
ons. It shows how deeply the love of
music was rooted in the hearts of the early
settlers in Utah, when in the face of such
almost insuperable obstacles, they planned
and successfully carried to completion the
erection of such a magnificent instrument,
at that time the second largest in the world.
The architect and designer of ths grand
organ was Mr. Joseph Ridges, who worked
on it for many years, but to Mr. Johnson
belongs the credit of bringing it to its pres-
ent perfect completion. It has four man-
uals, and pedal; fifty seven stops, and two
thousand six hundred and forty eight pipes,
supplied with wind by three large bellows,
operated by two hydraulic motors. In its
completed form, situated in one of the most
perfect acoustic buildings in the world, it is
justly an object of pride to our city and the
wonder and admiration of strangers. When
Professor Careless resigned the conductor-
ship of the Philharmonic Society, Professor
Radcliff came to Salt Lake City and took
the vacant position, and a year later gave
“The Creation” in the theater with marked
success. Professor Radcliff is a great
organist, and his recitals given on the
Tabernacle organ proves his complete
mastership of that noble instrument. In
1878, in order to meet the growing demand
for musical education, the Utah Conserva-
tory of music was opened in Salt Lake City
with Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson as director.
This institution devoted to the study of
music in all its branches, included system-
atic courses for the voice, and all instru-
ments in common use, with instruction in
Musical Theory, Notation, Tone Reading
and Elocution, and was for several years
the principal school of music in the Terri-
tory, many of its pupils are among our best
amateur musicians and vocalists today.
Among our local musicians also may be
mentioned Professor Joseph J. Daynes,
pupil of G. W. Morgan of New York, who
has presided at the Tabernacle organ since
1867, and Professor Orson Pratt, an able
teacher of the piano, harmony and counter-
point.
	Among our noted violin soloists Mr.
Willard Weihe stands in the front rank. A
protege of Ole Bull, for whom he played at
the early age of ten years, he has by force
of his genius and perseverance worked him-
self up to the highest position, and under
the tuition of the celebrated Vieuxtemps,
developed a marvelous technique that has
rarely been equaled except by a virtuoso.
His exquisite rendition of the works of the
great masters, is at once an inspiration, and
an artist’s dream.
	In 1881 Professor H. S. Krouse came to
Salt Lake City, and at once established him-
self as a first class musician and teacher,
and during his residence here has steadily
risen in the appreciation of all lovers of
classical music, until he now stands at the
head of his profession with a reputation
second to none as a teacher of piano and
the Higher Techniques. As a conductor
of opera and concert, he is a grand success
and his representation of Fatinitza was a
brilliant and artistic performance. In this
opera, Miss Jennie Hawley, (now Mrs. H.
C. Woodrow) a pupil of Professor Krouse,
took the title role, in which her exquisite

[Column 3]
contralto voice was heard to great advan-
tage. In setting before his pupils a high
standard of musical taste and culture, and
enconraging the study of the works of the
great masters, Professor Krouse has done
more for the advancement of classical and
High Art Music than any one else in this
community, and many of his pupils have
become creditable teachers, among whom
special mention must be made of Mrs.
Joseph McIntyre, at present a prominent
and successful teacher in Oneida N. Y. The 
annual recitals given by Professor Krouse’s
pupils are classical entertainments of a
high order. The programme for the com-
ing recital includes concertos by Henselt,
Chopin and Mendelssohn with orchestral
accompaniment on second piano, also com-
positions by Liszt, Liebling, Beethoven,
Rubenstein, Gottschalk and Wieniawski,
rendered by a number of his advanced
pupils who give promise of great musical
attainments in the near future.
	A long list of performers on piano, or-
gan, violin and other instruments might be
given, which together with a number of -
vocalists of unusual excellence justify the
claim that we are in Salt Lake City especial-
ly a music loving and appreciative people,
and that no Territory, and but few States
in our land can equal Utah in the progress
made in the divine art. Especially in this
the truth with regard to choral music.
Salt Lake leads with the largest church
choir in the world—the Tabernacle Choir
with 600 enrolled members—the Choral
Society three hundred in number, thirty
choirs belonging to the various churches in
the city, averaging at least twenty voices
each, making a grand total of fifteen hun-
dred choristers in this city alone. Add to
these the two hundred and fifty choirs in
the various towns and settlements together
with all the Sunday school choristers in the
Territory and Utah may well claim to be
the land of music, song and sunshine.
	To Professor Evan Stephens, a practical
musician and composer of considerable
native genius as well as professional train-
ing, is due the success of the general move-
ment in class teaching in the Sunday
schools of the Territory. Possessed of
rare personal magnetism, a born musical
leader with perfect choral control, he sways
the hundreds of children on the stage with
a few simple movements of his baton,
maintaining a perfect tempo, with the most
exquisite variation of forte and piano. The
concert of National songs given in the
Tabernacle on February 22nd 1893 by
twelve hundred children under fifteen years
of age, was repeated seven times to large
and enthusiastic audiences, and demonstra-
ted the possibility of a high standard of
musical training for children, thus educat-
ing a generation of musicians who will in
future years maintain Utah’s musical supre-
macy in the Rocky Mountains. The great-
est achievement of Professor Stephen’s
career has been the training and successful
competition of 250 members of the Taber-
nacle choir at the World’s Fair Eisteddfod.
The three competitive choruses were “Wor-
thy is the Lamb,” (Messiah) “Blessed are
the men,” (Elijah) and “Now the impet-
uous torrents rise,” (David & Saul) and
these had been practiced for many months
by the trained choirs who entered the con-
test for the World’s Fair prizes. The Utah
choir who had less than three months for
preparation, sang the numbers without
copies, and carried off the second prize of
$1000. The journey of the choir to and


from Chicago was a perfect ovation. Per-
formances were given in six cities en route,
and the greatest enthusiasm was manifested
by all the people who attended their con-
certs, while the press was unstinted in
praise of their efforts. "Utah's triumph in
Chicago" is only the stimulus to greater
efforts and the pledge of more brilliant suc-
cesses in the future. Proud as we may
justly be of our past musical achievements
and present standing, our future possibilities
are far more glorious, and under the leader-
ship of such artists as Krouse, Careless,
Stephens, Radcliff and Weihe, Utah is des-
tined to become world famed for her un-
equaled musical excellence and progress.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
