[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 599 | Fiction | Ring Around Her Heart — Chapter 4 | Shirley Thulin]
The evening shades were being RING AROUND HER HEART drawn on a wonderful day when a gentle rapping at the door brought Mr. Kirk to his feet. He opened the door and a tiny woman came in. She was wearing a hat, the kind made of shiny black straw, on her' white, straight hair and Joan could tell she didn't always wear a hat, only when she went someplace special. "Oh, Addie," Mrs. Kirk went over to her and gave her a hug. "How was he today?" "Bertha he he's." "Here, sit down, Addie," Mr. Kirk offered a chair. 'How is Tom?" "He isn't as good as he was last week. He... I don't know. Something has happened. He wouldn't 'hardly talk to me. Oh, Bertha." Kathy glanced quickly at Joan. "Mrs. Aines, this is Miss Morgan. She's a nurse... I mean, she's the head nurse at Hillcrest. Joan, this is Mrs. Aines, Tom's mother." "Oh, Mrs. Aines, I'm glad to know you. I've been working with Tom. He's going to be fine." "Going to be fine?"' Mrs. Aines looked from Joan to Kathy and back again. "How can you say that? His legs they've all told us he'll never be able to walk again." "They're right. He may never again have the use of his legs, but with braces and." "Braces?"' Mrs. Aines stood up. "What good are legs in braces on a farm?" "Please, Mrs. Aines. Try to understand. I was reared on a farm. I know what a rugged life all the chores... But believe me, Tom could do an awful lot. There are ways now. He could go 


 to school and learn to take care of the business end or he."' "Oh, Joan!"' Kathy's eyes were flashing. "How could you? Can't you see she's upset?" "I. Don't mean to upset her. I would be encouraged if I had a son in Tom's condition and someone told me." "But you don't have. You are only guessing and you are wrong, Joan," Kathy told her. "Now, now " Mr. Kirk said. "It's true, they do some marvelous things nowadays. And we have to have faith. We have to keep hoping." "You must be the nurse Tom was telling me about." Mrs. Aines looked at Joan. ''Doctor Desmond and all are so wonderful, and now you have done a lot of harm to Tom." 'No, I have made him begin to think. It will take time, but he soon will begin to be dissatisfied with lying in a_ hospital bed." "Last week he was talking about coming home. Now he doesn't want to." Mrs. Aines began to cry. "He doesn't want to come home now, and I want him where I can tend to him where I can be close to him." "Now, now, Addie."" Mrs. Kirk put her arms around her shoulders. "Everything will be all right, you'll see." "But it's been so long. The others aren't big enough to do much and I needed Tom so since Hal." Joan slipped out of the room. Oh, if only I could make them see, she thought. She went out the back door and walked down to the water trough. She felt the 602 night again, but it was different from last night. It wasn't gentle and friendly. It held a thousand accusing fingers which pointed at her. Even the face in the moon seemed to frown at her. But I'm right, I know I am, she told herself. "Joan!" it was Kathy coming from the house. "Over here," she answered. "Oh, Joan, I've got to talk to you." "Don't try to tell me to stop encouraging Tom," she said, "'because I am progressing with him. It doesn't look like it yet, Kathy, but I really am." "I don't know why I've always liked you, Joan. Even when you first came to the hospital and everyone was saying how reserved and unfriendly you were, I defended you. But now, oh, Joan, you have to have compassion. You have to have sympathy. Patients respond to a sympathetic heart. You have a what was it Dean said? Oh, yes. He said you have a ring around your heart." JOAN was stunned as she thought, so everyone really does think I am mean. "Kathy, I know I'm not a lot older than you are, but I've lived through much more. You see, in the other hospital in Elmdale, there were friends and neighbors and loved ones. For ten years I saw them be hurt, and crippled, and die, and each time a little of me was hurt and crippled, too. "Then Scott, my neighbor, was hurt in a skiing accident. Scott was very special to me, Kathy. I was with his mother the night he was born. She was alone but for me. The there fast enough an band was at work. Years old, and I decided then that J wanted to be a nurse. "T tended Scott all the time. If taught him to walk, and we went y. He would listen handle it. He had Scott out of that bed in no time. After that Scott learned to drive 2 tractor an nd..- then he was stricken with a little insignificant — imagine, Kathy, after all that, he died of a ruptured appendix! But Kathy. He had lived again." all this made you S° _, and I was in love. I was 1 love and let it show. Front of the house started up and Joan and Kathy Mrs. Aines was leaving. Back tonight," "Nonsense," Mr. Kirk told her. "Of course not, dear," Mrs. Kirk said. "You must not ~ that." "Addie was upset, of course, of the summer. He may even be helping with the haying!" you re right, Joan," Mrs. Kirk said. "She really needs him..- all those kids to manage! She always did count on that boy an awtully lot." "And that's what I'm depending on to help him fight his way came all too soon. "You must come back again real soon, Joan," Mrs. Kirk in- "J will," Joan promised. "Next Friday," Joey decided. "No, not next Friday, Joey," all Pester's ducks after you and you have "Oh, Joey, you re impossible," Kathy told him. She turned and leaned down, and all her reserve melted away for just a moment as she felt the little arms warm ground her neck.