[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 622 | Lesson | Social Science [for October] — The Dignity and Worth of Work and of Play Alberta | H. Christensen]
SOCIAL SCIENCE — Teaching the Gospel in the Home Alberta H. Christensen Lesson 10 — The Dignity and Worth of Work and of Play For Third Meeting, October 1965 Objective: To suggest attitudes and practices to promote health, industry, and wholesome recreation in the home. INTRODUCTION Three questions are pertinent to this lesson: 1. What is the responsibility of the mother in providing for and establishing health practices in the home? 2. How may the mother teach her children that successful living calls for a balance between work and play, and of the worth and dignity in work? 3. How may she teach her growing child that idleness squanders two of life's great blessings— time and purposeful effort—and, at the same time, not foster in him a feeling of urgency that an overly scheduled program may harmfully create? These questions are closely related, although superficially they may seem unlike. Without good health one cannot enjoy fully either work or recreation. To discuss these questions briefly is to oversimplify; however, this lesson will make some suggestions which may be useful to the Latter-day Saint mother. 622 THE HEALTH-PROMOTING HOME Since the body is the "home" of the spirit, Latter-day Saints are and always have been concerned with the health and wellbeing of the physical body. They are interested in concrete practices by which the growing child may be brought to a sound and healthful maturity, and they are interested in maintaining good health throughout the years. The 89th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants instructs us that certain foods are healthful and that certain substances are "not good for man." The Latterday Saint mother will help her child to realize that this is true by maintaining practices in the home that are in harmony with sound health counsel. It is the responsibility of the parents, in so far as it is possible, to provide a home where sanitary, healthful, and comfortable conditions may contribute to good health. It is the responsibility of the mother to teach her children good health practices. The health in- heritances of people differ widely, yet everyone has the obligation to achieve and maintain the best possible health, by complying with the laws of health. It is the mother who usually assumes the responsibility of seeing that periodic check-ups are made by dentist and physician; that teeth are given adequate personal care, and that immunity to disease is achieved through proper innoculations. It is the mother who is chiefly responsible for a wholesome, wellbalanced diet for family members. She knows that proper rest and sleep are also necessary. In the Doctrine and Covenants we find this counsel: "... Retire to thy bed early, that ye may not be weary; arise early, that your bodies and your minds may be invigorated" (D&C 88:124). With appointments at the dentist and doctor, and with school teachers' and mother's reminders about health, is there danger that a child may become overly concerned and apprehensive regarding his own health? Do you think that an overly apprehensive, health-conscious mother is likely to motivate such an attitude? What is the difference between the following statements by two children, age seven, who are offered apples from an orchard? Ist child: "I guess I'd better wash it first. At our house we always do." 2nd child: "I guess I shouldn't take it. I bet there're lots of bad germs on it." It is the opinion of some mothers that if sound health practices relative to food, rest, recreation, and periodic medical examinations, become matter-of-fact rouLESSON DEPARTMENT tine practices, children will acquire a natural regard for health without becoming personally apprehensive concerning their own health.; A MOTHER MAY WONDER The need to work, the ability to work, and the results of work are among the great blessings of life. Teaching this truth to children, however, is not easy, as a mother well knows. It is a responsibility she can delegate neither to the school nor to the Church. The home, with its innumerable household tasks, and tasks around a house or farm, is an excellent laboratory for teaching small children the value of work, and to accept work assignments. In the home the child first senses the joy of achievement—putting a button into a buttonhole, holding the dustpan as mother sweeps, and placing his folded pajamas in their proper place. Often, however, something seems to happen between these early, helpful efforts and the teenage indolence. What is it? A mother often may wonder what has happened to the boy, who at age six voluntarily struggled to bring in the trash can, and the boy of thirteen who must be reminded over and over again ~ that the garbage can should be brought inside. She may wonder what has happened to the eager five-year-old daughter who stood upon a chair coaxing to help mama wash the dishes, and the girl of thirteen who says with emphasis, "I do hope that in heaven there are no dishes to wash." 


 LEVEL OF KNOWING VERSUS LEVEL OF PERFORMANCE It was stated in lesson 3, where the gap between knowledge and performance was discussed briefly, that this subject would be reconsidered in a later lesson. It is in the area of teaching children to assume work responsibilities, particularly, that this gap may be noted. Mothers may become quite impatient when children fail to do simple tasks which they — know they should do; when they ask, "Why do I have to work? Why make the beds every day? Why not once a week?" Discuss frankly with the children the necessity of an orderly home. Explain that there is too much work for one or two people to do; that the home is their home and that all should share in its work and its play. Each family member shares in the benefits of the home, each should share in its enjoyment. DRIVING FORCES VERSUS RESTRAINING FORCES It has been said that, in general, we do the things we most want to do. What we most want to do may involve several factors. There may be tangible, concrete rewards, or there may be mental or emotional satisfactions which incline us to a particular choice or course of action. These may be spoken of as positive motivations or driving forces. On the other hand, there are restraining forces which tend to keep us from positive action. Knowing this, the mother will search to find out what the restraining forces are which keep her children from performing as 624 well "as they know." Consider the following illustrations: Daughter: "I ought to go to meeting tonight, but I don't want to. I don't feel like it." Give at least two reasons why the daughter may not "feel like going." (Suggestions: She may not feel well physically, or she may feel socially unhappy, even inadequate.) Suggest others. Mother: (Unhappily) 'Son, just look at your room! Why don't you put things where they belong, and be more tidy?" Son: (Who really doesn't mean what he is saying) "I like my room this way. I can see everything I own, right from the door." Could this boy be telling his mother something like this? "I know my room should be cleaned up and neat, but I don't want to put forth the effort to make it so. There are other things I'd rather be doing." Whatever these "other things" may be, they apparently present to his mind greater satisfactions than cleaning up his room. What motivating forces might lead this boy to positive action in tidying up his room? (The satisfaction of fulfilling delegated responsibility; the satisfaction of order and neatness; the satisfaction of pleasing his mother. Can you name others?) "Many hands make light work" is an old maxim, familiar to all of us. It has special meaning for the family where regular work and special interest or hobby projects involve several or all family members. This cooperative' effort makes for family solidarity and children often say, "It's more fun doing things together." ATTITUDE! S IMPORTANT The mother who says, "My children are lazy. They don't do anything around the house," may be somewhat unfair to her children. Is it possible that the mother, herself, considers housework distasteful and transfers her attitude to her children? Is it possible that her children are not motivated to see _ satisfactions which outweigh the effort involved in doing the tasks? Do mothers sometimes negatively emphasize assigned duties so that a particular task seems unpleasant? Contrast the following attitudes of approach to a task: lst mother: "I know, Alice, how you hate to iron, but this ironing must be done." 2d mother: "You do a good ironing job, Alice, and we all appreciate your helping us to look our 'best—I especially." Mothers who are endeavoring to reduce the gap _ between knowing and doing, might ask themselves such questions as the following: 1. Do I "nag" or do I motivate my children to work? 2. Do I delegate responsibility kindly but firmly, expecting it to be carried out, or do my repeated reminders irritate my child so that he builds up resentment toward the task? 3. If the attitude of the mother is an important motivating force, may not the mother who does all she can cheerully do (even though she leaves some details 'undone) be more wise than the mother who wearily and complainingly accomplishes more? 4. Should "play" be a reward for work done, or a separate activity with merits-of its own? LESSON DEPARTMENT GUIDED SUGGESTIONS TO YOUTH The attitudes of "getting something for nothing' and of getting by with as little work as possible, are demoralizing factors in contemporary life. We are realizing the fact that even many of our youth are assuming this attitude. In an attempt to help young people prepare themselves for responsibility in the world's work and to lessen idleness, civic groups in many cities are helping youth to find summer employment. They need the cooperation of parents in this worthwhile project. In the following examples, note the difference in attitude in two mothers. Lst boy: (age sixteen) "School's out! Boy, am I going to rest up now, do nothing but fun things all summer!" lst mother: "I hope you do. No early rising, no school books. You really should have an easy summer." 2d boy: "Hurray, school's out! Nothing to do until September." 2d mother: "You'll welcome a change, I know, son. Your father is going to speak to you about a job opportunity he thinks you'll find really challenging. He thinks you have ability in mechanical lines. You can use the money you'll get to buy things you'll be wanting next September." 2d boy: "Good. I'd like that." Can we expect youth suddenly to become industrious if they have not been trained to accept and carry out some work assignments? THE DIGNITY OF WORK At some time, either at appropriate though unscheduled teaching moments, or on planned and scheduled occasions, children should be given training and counsel on the value and dignity 


 of work. They also should be taught to take pride in work well done and should receive encouragement and commendation when they carry out their share of home duties. They likely will respond favorably to a discussion of that important commandment given to our first parents: "multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it" (Genesis 1:28). In order to subdue the earth, man must put forth both mental and physical effort. He must work in order to bring harvests from the soil and to supply the innumerable comforts we enjoy. Children may be taught that order is evident in the universe and that there should be order in their lives and homes. It requires work to have order in our homes and in our lives. If discussed in an enthusiastic manner, children will thrill to the idea of becoming a part of the work force of the world—the men and women who invent and originate, who build bridges, houses, railroads, airplanes; men and women who teach, who discover, who perform in cultural arts; mothers who cook delicious foods, who sew attractive clothes, and who love and care for children. Who would want to be idle —to be on the outside of all this exciting challenge! IDLENESS NOT APPROVED OF THE LORD Our Heavenly Father does not approve of idleness, and much divine counsel regarding labor has been given to man since Adam and Eve began their labors beyond the gates of Eden. In the Doctrine and Covenants 68:31-32 we read: "Now, I, the Lord, am 626 not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness. These things ought not to be." And again, in Section 88 are the words: "Cease to be idle." To teach children that work is necessary and that the Lord does not approve of idleness; to help them to know the joy of accomplishment; to help them feel that in all constructive, useful work there is dignity; to help them to see that both mental and manual labor not only are the means of earning a livelihood, but that they also bring satisfactions which are the very essence of happiness, are parental challenges which require much understanding, love, and infinite patience. SO BRIEF THE YEARS! Childhood years are so precious, so important, but so brief! Is there not some danger in this day of programs and schedules, of hourly racing from activity to activity, that children may be pressed into adulthood, prematurely? May not this be true especially of 'city children'? We must not confuse idleness with unscheduled moments of learning, and experience, nor rob children of their right to dream, to discover, quietly, some of the mysteries of a magic world. Today, there is more pavement but there are fewer meadows, more houses, but fewer trees to climb, fewer. Streams to wade. Perhaps we need more mothers who, sensing today's regimentation, will try to preserve the essential needs of a "child's world"; mothers who will seek to compensate for these losses by thoughtful substitution. Such a mother well might say to her very young children, "Suppose we go adventuring down the street, this beautiful spring day. We could count the colors of flowers in bloom and see the different houses—some of them tall, like trees; some of them low and long, with wide windows. There may not be any real] butterflies, but, who knows we might see a really live robin, upon somebody's lawn!'' "IF THOU ART MERRY" need to play; to re-create ourSelves through joyful diversion, We need to sing. "If thou art merry, praise singing, with music, with dancing, and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving" (D&C 136:28). And in