[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 588 | Home | Home Again Fae | Paulsen Thomas]
586 Photograph by Josef M ah ' inside and out Fae Paulsen Thomas Dear Sister: The unpacking is finished at last, and things are in some semblance of order, so I have a few free moments to catch up on my letter writing. I wish I might truly share with you my feelings on being home again, although it hasn't really worked out the way I had planned. Remember? I was going to return home rich and famous, and dazzle the whole town with my charming personality and money — especially my money. I was going to give Ray (who always said he would almost crawl on his hands and knees to see a World Series game) a season's pass for the best seat in the ball park. With television, he already has that now. I was going to buy Lu a Stradivarius violin so he could play the sweetest music in the world. And now that I'm home again, I find he already plays the sweetest music in the world on his old violin. I was going to give the ward enough money to build a beautiful new chapel. I guess they got tired of waiting for me, because they have already built one without my money. I was going to use my influence os (which would be great) to get the dam built that would bring water in great abundance to this little valley — the dam folks spoke of when Mama was a girl, the dam they dreamed of when Greatuncle Frank was just a boy. Well, someone else had the influence, and the Government is building the dam right now. And this is what has brought us home again. I'm neither rich nor famous. The things I wished for are already here — maybe most of them always have been. I can't bring the people here anything but my memories and my love. Last Sunday when we went to church, I got just a tiny glimpse of what celestial glory may be like. We have lived in many different wards in the Church. We always know that the people will be wonderful, but there is always that first time in a new place when you walk in just hoping for one familiar face! Last Sunday as we opened the door to the chapel, the people on the back rows and those who were standing near the door turned to look at us, as people do. Their welcome smiles were the ones they would have given to any stranger who came in. Then, as they recognized us, they Our hands little Just a ( T, put the; around y was, but, The 0 a saint, they Said, "I don't know your name, byt I know you're Julia's 1 did Io Tl How we © ve your mother Stove as She pags they fresh ""SS8€s with the Ulter, the Mush dj Naught like He has My own I Beautify) Zi dropped hay do Mountain home, Cows who a on for me I does the mi You smell ¢ ushed Open the € steam rising from elr backs and Mingling With the, scent of the h little calf Nn the arom aS One old friend to another. M Writing We dressed hurriedIy, I' this late at night ering that "N While I listen to the "Cricket Choir." Do 1 remem- 0 on € Comes to the 589 = And Relief Society Magazines) Stacks and stacks of them. I alWays read the Continued Stories In the Magazine I have really piece of white satin that looks as if it came from a wedding dress. There is also a little notebook with all of our birthdays entered. It was kept right up to date until 1947, when mother passed away. There is a little notation: "Pine trees planted today, October 9th, 1909." Some of our Great-uncle Ole's things are here, too, also some of his sister's keepsakes. An old cookbook dated 1879, a gift to her before she was married. It makes me feel real close to her when I see all of the little clippings and recipes stuck in between the pages. I tried her recipe for hand lotion, and my hands feel as soft as a baby's. Greatgrandma Caroline's Doctor Book is here, too. It is also dated 1879 and contains everything from caring for a speck in the eye to laying out the dead. Let me quote just a bit from the chapter on Tonic Medicines: Excellent results are frequently obtained by changing from one tonic to another when the first one fails or has ceased to do any good. Uncle Ole's graduation from the Teacher's Institute in 1886 is substantiated by a certificate signed by Karl G. Maeser, James kK. Talmage, and George H. Brimhall. Also his marriage certificate to Aunt Mary Ann, signed in 1888 by Daniel H. Wells, and his missionary certificate signed in 1891 by Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon, and Joseph F. Smith. The letters, letters, letters! One telling of the death of his little son, and another written to Grandma telling of the passing of his very young wife, Mary Ann. I didn't know until now that THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Uncle Ole had any children of his own. Here is the telegram Greatgrandma sent him to inform him of the death of his sister, our grandmother, when Mama was born. There is also a child's handsewed velvet waist, with rows and rows of tiny tucks, and a little pair of shoes like those on display at the Beehive House in Salt Lake City. I must see if they can be placed somewhere like that so others can enjoy them, too. I can hardly bear to have Ted repair the doorstep, although I know it must be done. The hollow is so deep now that the cold air comes in under the door, and the rains collect there as if it were a cup. The pine trees have all been cut down except the one by the west door. The old barn is sagging dangerously, and the town beautification committee says we must pull it down. But the lovely old house is still snug and warm after nearly ninety years. Greatgrandpa built the home for his wife Amelia and their two small babies. Mama was born here, as were you and Paul. On my wedding day in 1946, we helped our greatgrandparents to celebrate their seventieth wedding anniversary right here in the parlor. Lainie was married here. Alma was carried from here for the last time on the shoulders of six of his army comrades to the little chapel just down the street... The house seems to vibrate with memories.. ©. I am part of the house, and it is part of me. We belong together, and I am truly home again!; With love, your sister 591 = = Phetogsah tu Loretta adds raindrops to the house picture drawn by an older friend. — Qe a= g '* 4 IAW RIIUGTU