[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 628 | Lesson | Social Science — Learning to Choose Wisely Alberta | H. Christensen]
[Social Science — Learning to Choose Wisely Alberta H. Christensen]

And in ancient scripture we read _ these words: "To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven... EA time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance" (Ecclesiastes 3:1, 4). Opened for Performances fifteen years after the Pioneers came into evidence the interest of present Church leaders in making recreLESSON DEPARTMENT to take advantage of the recregtional activities offered the youth of the Church, are associating, Children wil] recall fondly the family outings, and summer picwith family members or friends playing games, listening to conversation or music, Popping corn, serving refreshments. Such occasions, enjoyable in the present, FOR DISCUSSION Questions appearing in the lesson and introduced into the discussion. FOR HOME DOING 627 t Wwe would li buy ¢ ke to Oys just behave them. LESSON DEPARTMENT much _ Do you think the Matter of much money we ra Choice Is Involved to spend. This one Costs about the: Same as the little truck IN this quesh tion? Might we say that the you have;. - There wil] daughter Is choosing to keep al] enough money, and the mother Which Would you Prefer having?" is agreeing? Boy: "Bobby bishop, this cents to the Morning, fo Do r his tithing. Dren to e of Teady-toMoney). Ing. 3. Why we Day tithing. Financial] circumstances, lowing: 


 (short term); Church missions; selecting a vocation. In all of these areas the matter of money is an important factor. There are many alluring enticements which involve' the spending of money for children of all ages. Children need the counsel of wise parents from an early age so that they will be reasonable in their requests for money; will not squander their own prized earnings; may acquire sound spending practices which will be useful to them throughout life. VALUE OF EXPERIENCE We must not overlook, moreover, the value of an experience which may result from an unwise choice. Example: A son, age nineteen, who purchases, with his own money, a used car which tums out to be a financial burden as well as a poor buy. How may the parents of this son help him to gain value from this experience, without losing faith in his own decisions? His ability to make an individual choice? DIVINE ADMONITION Latter-day Saints are encouraged to work, to be thrifty, and to spend wisely. They are encouraged to seek for a_ wise balance in their spending for spiritual and for temporal needs, and for luxuries. The mother will remain aware of the wisdom found in the divine admonition: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for 630 yourselves treasures in heaven.... For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also (Matthew 6: 19-21). As part of her responsibility to teach the gospel in the home, the mother herself will heed this divine counsel, and will help her children to know what the treasures are that are laid up in heaven and to seek them. A mother will train her children to follow the words of Benjamin:._.. 1 would that ye should impart of your substance to the poor, every man according to that which he hath, such as feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick and administering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according to their wants (Mosiah 4:26). WHAT SHALL I BUY WITH MY TIME? This question is of continuing concern for both children and adults and, only gradually, do we learn where true wisdom lies. As we plan on receiving full value for the money we spend, so, also, should we aim to receive full value for our time, even our leisure time. When we are young, time appears to be an indefinite, limitless commodity. It seems to stretch before us as a _ neverending plain. Days, weeks, months, years—time for everything! We sometimes hear youth say, "Oh, I have time to burn." As we grow older, the days slip by, weeks shorten, years— where do they go? All of our activities relate to the use of time, and, since our earth-time is limited, we increasingly need to choose wisely how we will use time. We need to decide what values we hope to get in return. What are some of the specific values we may expect to get from the wise expenditure of our time? (Suggestion: Wisdom, development of specific skills, mental and emotional satisfaction, financial compensation. ) IMPORTANT CHOICES TV viewing is an area where time and value received are important factors, and where mothers may help children to become selective. There are many beautiful, stimulating, educational, and wholesomely entertaining television shows, and there are also unwholesome, undesirable shows where violence and dishonor are even made attractive. How may the mother guard her children and her home from the undesirable influence of undesirable viewing? How may she help her children see that the values received from TV shows differ widely? What desirable values may be received? Name four values which might be "learned" from undesirable shows. SELECTIVE READING If we believe, as Thomas Jefferson so firmly did, in the power of the printed word to move men to good action, we must also believe in the power of the printed word to move men to evil action. People do not, of course, put into action all they think about, but it may be said that those things we intentionally do, we have thought about, at least briefly. Never in the history of the world has so much _ reading material been available. Every LESSON DEPARTMENT area of human interest, from outer space to the caverns of the sea, has been explored, to some extent, and recorded upon the printed page. And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D&C 88:118). Even in the area of children's literature, available books are innumerable. There are books on every subject of interest and need for the growing child—mediocre books, good books, and excellent books which are wisely written and skilfully illustrated. Unfortunately there are men who are willing to exploit the innocence of youth for money. Millions of dollars are spent annually in the business of producing and marketing undesirable, even pornographic written material. It is sold upon stands and is sent through the mails, often to juvenile readers who may bear the scar of this influence throughout life. "What is not good for us is wrong," are the words of Dorothy Lewis, chairman of the American Mothers Committee who, among many others, is alerting young mothers to this great modern evil. Do you believe something can be done about this situation? How may the mother help her children develop a taste for good and profitable reading material? How can she help her children see that reading mediocre 'or undesirable reading material squanders precious time, invites degrading thoughts into the mind, and also may lessen one's 


 ability to recognize and choose the good? Children read what is available. Is there suitable reading material in your home at present? Libraries are only effort away. Bookmobiles will bring books right to one's neighborhood in some areas. Today is the day of the book —the good, enlightening book, the scientific book, the travel book, the human study book, the book of eternal truths which will inform the mind and strengthen the faith of the believer and may bring faith to the unbeliever. These are questions for the Latter-day Saint mother: Do you ever read to them? Are reading? Do you ever read to them? Could selective reading be a subject for a family discussion? The accumulated knowledge of the world is available to those who seek; to those who are willing to substitute for trash '"'wisdom out of the best books." FOR DISCUSSION Questions appearing in the lesson. Make as full use of them as possible. FOR HOME DOING 1. Listen, and watch for opportunity subtly to counsel small children on money spending, and allocating money for useful projects. 2. Watch for opportunity with older children to give counsel on general money spending practices as you consider it wise to do so. 3. View one or two TV shows as a family. Discuss the shows afterward, noting the reaction of family members. 4. If your children do not have library cards, suggest that each child obtain one, and encourage their wise use. 5. (Adults only in the home) Appraise your reading habits. Appraise your television viewing as to time consumed and value of program. Are you selective in your viewing?