[Vol52 | August 1965 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: 561 Summer Afternoon — Christie Lund Coles Farewell to a Son | Author: Margery S. Stewart,]
Summer  stitched  the  still, 
Taffeta   afternoon; 
And    crickets    embroidered 
The    blue-green    silk. 
Needle-point    shadows 
Filled  the  waiting  squares 
Gulls  picked  out 
"he    mistaken    threads. 
Geese    cross-stitched   the    sky. 
We  were  alone 
Softly  sewn 
Into  this  tapestry 
Which,  somehow,  bore 
Our   laughing  signature 
■% 
Hood  and 
ike 
Transparency  by  Josef  Muench 
Lithographed  in  Full  Color  by  Deseret  News  Press 
Frontispiece:       Boulder  Mountain,  Utah,  Photograph  by  Willard Luce 
Art  Layout: 
Illustrations: 
Scopes 
Scopes

f/vm^{ 
The  Magazine  brings  me  great  comfort 
and  peace  of  mind.  I  have  typed  the 
editorial  "Sufficient  Unto  the  Day" 
(April  1965,  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp) 
and  pasted  it  where  I  cannot  fail  to 
see  and  heed  its  excellent  counsel. 
Most  of  the  editorials  and  articles  seem 
to  be  written  just  for  me.  What  a  bless- 
ing to  be  reminded  of  the  right  way  in 
these  days  when  so  many  media  try 
to  lead  one  astray. 
Wilma  Jeanne  Reckling 
Glenview,   Illinois 
I  always  enjoy  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, and  the  June  issue  is  no  excep- 
tion. How  I  enjoyed  the  article  by  Sister 
Fox  "Thoughts  of  a  Mother  During  a 
Family  Home  Evening."  I  have  six, 
oh,  so  dear,  and,  oh,  so  different  child- 
ren, and  home  evening  is  indeed  a  time 
of  inner  prayer  for  me. 
Olga  Milius 
Salt  Lake  City,   Utah 
The  March  issue  of  the  Magazine  was 
wonderful,  and  we  were  delighted  to 
see  our  own  Lake  District  featured  on 
the  cover,  and  the  lovely  colored  pic- 
tures of  English  scenes  within. 
Vera  R.  Holden 
Stockport,  Cheshire 
England 
My  husband  and  I  read  the  article 
"Latter-day  Saint  Trails  Along  the  River 
Ribble  in  Northern  England,"  by  Claire 
W.  Noall  (March  1965)  with  great  in- 
terest. Evidently,  Sister  Noall  had 
studied  much  about  the  history  of  the 
Church    in   England. 
John  and  Helen  Clegg 
Provo,  Utah 
I  fully  enjoyed  the  recent  article  "Latter- 
day  Saint  Trails  Along  the  River  Ribble 
in  Northern  England,"  by  Claire  W. 
Noall,  as  well  as  the  accompanying  pic- 
tures of  the  beautiful  landscape. 
Isaura  B.  Abegg 
Orem,   Utah 
I  appreciated  "Wind  Valley,"  the  first 
prize  poem  by  Lenora  Hansen  in  the 
January  issue  of  the  Magazine,  be- 
cause even  though  Amarillo  is  on  the 
high  plains  instead  of  in  a  valley,  the 
"always,  everlasting  wind"  blows  here 
constantly.  And  for  those  of  us  with 
children,  the  poem  "Progeny"  (second 
prize  poem  by  Pearle  M.  Olsen) 
couldn't  help  but  make  an  impression. 
This  poem  was  read  by  one  of  the  sis- 
ters at  our  recent  Relief  Society  birth- 
day banquet.  But  even  though  I  found 
the  poems  in  January  1964  on  the 
whole  more  readable,  I  must  go  back 
to  1963  for  my  favorite — "Quo  Vadis," 
by  Margery  S.  Stewart.  Since  this  was 
a  third  place  winner,  my  judgment  evi- 
dently doesn't  stand  up  with  that  of 
the  experts,  but  the  imagery  of  this 
poem  was  such  that  in  reading  it  I 
could  not  escape  a  powerful  emotion. 
Ellen  Gross 
Amarillo,  Texas 
"Grandson,"  the  poem  in  the  February 
Relief  Society  Magazine,  composed  by 
Christie  Lund  Coles,  speaks  the  very 
thoughts  for  me.  Both  my  daughter 
(the  loving  mother  of  my  grandson) 
and  I  enjoyed  the  tender  descriptive 
words  of  this  excellent  poem.  Christie 
Lund  Coles  is  a  great  writer.  We  appre- 
ciate her  talent  and  wish  to  thank  her. 
Dana  S.  Benson 
Malad  City,  Idaho 
May  I  just  send  my  appreciation  for 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  My  sister 
and  I  always  read  the  beautiful  poetry 
first,  then  the  lessons,  and  so  on. 
Then  we  pass  the  Magazine  on  to  our 
friends,  sometimes  the  Magazines  go 
around  the  world  from  us.  As  I  write, 
there  is  a  snow  blizzard  outside,  so  I 
thank  God  for  my  little  home,  a  fire, 
and  now  the  January  Relief  Society 
Magazine. 
Mrs.  A.  Welleycose 
and  Mrs.  M.  Allott 
Sheffield,  England 
542

The   Relief    Society  Magazine 
Volume   52       Number  8       August   1965 
Editor     Marianne  C.  Sharp       Associate  Editor     Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager     Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
564     Lord,  Increase  Our  Faith     Bruce  R.  McConkie 
569     Companionship   of   Couples   Through   the   Family   Home  Evening     Lila  Walch 
578     The  Uninvited  Guest  —  Mr.  Germ     Utah  State  Board  of  Health 
580     Let's  Speak  Correctly     Myrtle  E.  Henderson 
Fiction 
572     Letitia  Keeps  in  Touch     Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson 
599     Ring  Around  Her  Heart  —  Chapter  4     Shirley  Thulin 
General  Features 
562  From  Near  and  Far 
583  Woman's  Sphere     Ramona  W.  Cannon 
584  Editorial:    Self-Reliance     Louise  W.  Madsen 
586  Notes  to  the  Field:   The  Relief  Society  Annual  General  Conference 
604  Notes  From  the  Field:   Relief  Society  Activities 
640  Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home -Inside  and  Out 
588     Home  Again     Fae  Paulsen  Thomas 
592     A  Family  Blackboard     Celia  Larsen  Luce 
594     Quantity   Cooking  for  Relief  Society   Functions  —  Part  I  —  Rosa  Shurtz 
597  Caster  Cups  for  Many  Uses     Jean  Crosse  Hansen 
598  Jennette  T.  Chamberlain  Makes  Plain  and  Fancy  Quilts 
Lessons  for  November 
611     Theology  —  The  Earth  and  Man     Roy  W.  Doxey 
618     Visiting  Teacher  Message  —  "Pray  Always,  That  Ye  May  Not  Faint" 
Christine  H.  Robinson 
620     Work  Meeting  —  The  Happiness  That  Comes  From  Work     Winnifred  C.  Jardine 
622     Social  Science   [for  October]   —  The  Dignity  and  Worth  of  Work  and  of  Play 
Alberta  H.   Christensen 
628     Social   Science   —    Learning    to   Choose  Wisely      Alberta  H.  Christensen 
633     Literature  —  Good  versus  Evil  —  Part  II     Robert  K.  Thomas 
Poetry 
561     Summer  Afternoon  —  Christie  Lund  Coles 
Farewell  to  a  Son,  by  Margery  S.  Stewart,  568;  To  a  New  Chapel,  by  Maureen  Davies, 
571;  The  Mountain's  Gift,  by  Enola  Chamberlin,  582;  Have  You  Ever  Been  Lost  in  Beauty? 
by  Christina  Cox  Stacey,  586;  After-Words,  by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  617;  Three-Generation 
Bible,  by  Ora  Pate  Stewart,  619;  Till  Love  Comes  Home,  by  Rae  Woolley  Whited,  632; 
Lyric  of  Happiness,  by  Vesta  Nickerson  Fairbairn,  637;  The  Garden,  by  Catherine  B. 
Bowles,  640. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  ©  1965  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main 
Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  364-2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c 
a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  sup- 
plied. Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new 
address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Past  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the 
Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  Oc- 
tober 8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manu- 
scripts.

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie 
Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
■  Faith  like  the  ancients — what 
we  would  give  to  possess  it! 
By  faith  all  things  are  possible. 
To  name  the  fruits  of  faith  is 
simply  to  list  all  of  the  miracles, 
all  of  the  gifts  and  signs,  all  of 
the  events  of  creation,  redemp- 
tion, and  salvation. 
By  faith  Enoch  walked  with 
God;  Melchizedek  quenched  the 
violence  of  fire;  Moses  led  Israel 
through  the  Red  Sea;  Joshua 
stopped  the  sun;  Elijah  called 
down  fire  from  heaven;  Daniel 
stopped  the  mouths  of  lions; 
and  Moriancumer  moved  Mount 
Zerin;  Peter  and  Paul  raised  the 
dead;  and  by  faith,  prophets  in 
all  ages  have  opened  the  eyes  of 
the  blind,  unstopped  the  ears  of 
the  deaf,  loosed  the  tongues  of 
the  dumb,  healed  withered  limbs, 
rebuked  diseases,  restored  health. 
By  faith,  men  accept  the  gos- 
pel, forsake  the  world,  become 
the  sons  of  God,  go  on  to  eternal 
perfection,  and  gain  mansions  in 
that  kingdom  where  God  and 
Christ  dwell. 
"Faith  is  .  .  .  the  moving  cause 
of  all  action  in  .  .  .  intelligent 
beings."  It  is  a  "principle  ...  of 
power."  It  "is  the  first  great  gov- 
erning principle  which  has  power, 
dominion,  and  authority  over  all 
things;  by  it  they  exist,  by  it 
they  are  upheld,  by  it  they  are 
changed,  or  by  it  they  remain, 
agreeable  to  the  will  of  God. 
Without  it  there  is  no  power,  and 
without  power  there  could  be  no 
creation  nor  existence."  So  taught 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
Lectures  on  Faith. 
The  ancient  apostles — knowing 
of  the  mighty  deeds  done  by  the 
prophets  who  preceded  them, 
knowing  that  these  things  had 
been  done  by  faith,  knowing  that 
faith  was  a  principle  of  power — 
presented  to  the  Master  this 
petition:  "Increase  our  faith." 
They  wanted,  through  faith,  what 
every  saint,  ancient  and  modern, 
desires — to  have  power  to  do  all 
things  which  are  harmonious  with 
the  will  of  God  in  this  life  and 
then  to  gain  eternal  salvation  in 
the  life  to  come. 
Jesus'    reply    (as   far   as   the 
564