[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 564 | Special Feature | Lord, Increase Our Faith Bruce | R. McConkie]
sa on.: ni ' had ee bo 8 DES 3 INCREASE CS SR SE ae Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of the First Council of Seventy @ Faith like the ancients—what we would give to possess it! By faith all things are possible. To name the fruits of faith is simply to list all of the miracles, all of the gifts and signs, all of the events of creation, redemption, and salvation. By faith Enoch walked with God; Melchizedek quenched the violence of fire; Moses led Israel through the Red Sea; Joshua stopped the sun; Elijah called down fire from heaven; Daniel stopped the mouths of lions; and Moriancumer moved Mount Zerin; Peter and Paul raised the dead; and by faith, prophets in all ages have opened the eyes of the blind, unstopped the ears of the deaf, loosed the tongues of the dumb, healed withered limbs, rebuked diseases, restored health. By faith, men accept the gospel, forsake the world, become the sons of God, go on to eternal perfection, and gain mansions in that kingdom where God and Christ dwell. "Faith is the moving cause 564 of all action in... Intelligent beings." It is a "principle... Of power." It "is the first great governing principle which has power, dominion, and authority over all things; by it they exist, by it they are upheld, by it they are changed, or by it they remain, agreeable to the will of God. Without it there is no power, and without power there could be no creation nor existence." So taught the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Lectures on Faith. The ancient apostles—knowing of the mighty deeds done by the prophets who preceded them, knowing that these things had been done by faith, knowing that faith was a principle of power— presented to the Master this petition: "Increase our faith." They wanted, through faith, what every saint, ancient and modern, desires—to have power to do all things which are harmonious with the will of God in this life and then to gain eternal salvation in the life to come. Jesus' reply (as far as the record reveals) did not answer their query. Instead, he spoke simply of the transcendent power manifest through the exercise of faith. "If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed," said he, '"'ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you" (Luke 17:5-6). And so the problem remains. As with the Twelve in Palestine, so with the saints today: How is faith gained, increased, perfected, until the man of God attains that spiritual stature which assures him of eternal life?

"Lord, increase our faith." As they petitioned, so do we pray: "Lord, Let us have power to uproot sycamine trees, to move mountains, to work miracles, to do all things needful while here on earth, and to be saved in thy kingdom in due course." As they knew, so do we that faith and its fruits go together, that if we possess that power which is faith, we will enjoy those things which are the fruits of faith. Joseph Smith said: Because faith is wanting, the fruits are. No man since the world was had faith without having something along with it. The ancients quenched the violenge of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, women received their dead, etc. By faith the worlds were made. A man who has none of the gifts has no faith; and he deceives himself, if he supposes he has. Faith has been wanting, not only among the heathen, but in professed Christendom also, so that tongues, healings, prophecy, and prophets and apostles, and all the gifts and blessings have been wanting (PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 270). LORD, INCREASE OUR FAITH Viewed in its proper perspective, then, the pursuit of faith becomes man's most important enterprise, for through faith men gain the greatest blessings both in time and in eternity. For the spiritual novice, the spiritually weak, the-seeker who is but beginning—perhaps even for the apostles who were told anew by their Lord of the power that is faith—the casting of sycamine trees into the sea seems, if not impossible, at least a difficult thing reserved for a favored few. AND so, perhaps, it is, for faith (or power) is found in all degrees and in all quantities. One man has faith (or power) to do one thing, and another has power (or faith) to do something greater. Thus the Prophet said: Miracles are the fruits of faith. Faith comes by hearing the word of God. If a man has not faith enough to do one thing, he may have faith to do another: if he cannot remove a mountain, he may heal the sick. Where faith is there will be some of the fruits: all gifts and power which were sent from heaven, were poured out on the heads of those who had faith (History of the Church [DHC] Volume V, page 355). In gaining faith there must be a beginning point, a place to start, a time when the power that is faith finds initial lodgment in the human soul. Since faith comes by hearing the word of God (Romans 10:17), faith seekers must hear the word of God taught, taught in plainness and perfection by legal administrators who have power and insight and who teach the truth. Those who hear must elect to be receptive; they must make an S65 AUGUST 1965 initial choice to believe. Alma stated it this way:. If ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea, even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my words. He then compared the word unto a seed, which, if planted in the heart and allowed to swell and grow, would enlarge the soul and enlighten the understanding. Then he asked: "'Would not this increase your faith?" (Alma 32: 27-28). Thus Alma, in general terms, tells how to lay a foundation for gaining and increasing faith. But it is left to Joseph Smith to spell out the details, to announce the specific formula-for-faith.

He said "that three things are necessary in order that any rational and intelligent being may exercise faith in God unto life and salvation."" These he named as: 1. The idea that he actually exists; 2. A correct idea of his character, perfections, and attributes; and 3. An actual knowledge that the course of life which he is pursuing is according to his will (Lectures on Faith, page 33). Following this perfect formulafor-faith will seem easy to some members of the Church, hard to others. Some of its provisions are almost automatically fulfilled by every member of the kingdom; others seemingly require a constant labor and effort. As to the idea that God actually exists—there is no problem. From that spring morning in 1820, when the Father and the 566 Son stood in glorious immortality before the destined head of this dispensation, there has never been any question in the minds of true Latter-day Saints as to the existence of Deity. We worship that God in whose image man is made; that holy and exalted Personage who is our Father in heaven; that Supreme Being of whom the revelation says: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones, but is a personage of Spirit" (D&C 130:22). As to having a correct idea of his character, perfections, and attributes—the problem is a little more difficult. By way of summary, the Prophet spells out the character of God under these six headings: 1. "He was God before the world was created, and the same God that he was after it was created"; 2. "He is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abundant in goodness, and he was so from everlasting, and will be so to everlasting"; 3. "He changes not, neither is there variableness with him, and... His course is one eternal round"; 4. '"'He is a God of truth, and cannot lie'; 5. "He is no respecter of persons"; and 6. "He is love' (Lectures on Faith, page 38). Most members of the Church find it easy to set their souls in harmony with these' eternal truths which taken collectively make up the character of Deity. God's attributes are given as: Knowledge, Faith or Power, Justice, Judgment, Mercy, and Truth, and the Prophet explains that "without the idea of the existence of the attributes which belong to God, the minds of men could not have power to exercise faith in him so as to lay hold upon eternal life" (Ibid., pp. 42- 49). Here again the members of the kingdom find little difficulty in ascribing to the Almighty the very attributes which he _ possesses. "What we mean by perfections," the Prophet says, "'is the perfections which belong to all the attributes of his nature." This means, for instance, that Deity has all mercy; that there is no part of this attribute which he must yet gain; that he is the embodiment, the personification, the total possessor of it all. It means he is not only a Being endowed with the attributes of truth and knowledge, but that he possesses these attributes in their fulness and perfection. In other words, he knows all things and is not gaining new knowledge or learning new truths. And so it is with each attribute; the perfection of God consists in possessing them in their fulness and perfection. These concepts are not too difficult for most members of the restored kingdom, but there are some who stumble to a degree by professing to worship a progressing rather than a perfected God. In explaining and amplifying the phase of the perfections of God which deal with truth and knowledge, Joseph Smith taught: Without the knowledge of all things, God would not be able to save any portion of his creatures; for it is by reason of the knowledge which he has of all things, from the beginning to the end, that enables him to give that LORD, INCREASE OUR FAITH understanding to his creatures by which they are made partakers of eternal life; and if it were not for the idea existing in the minds of men that God had all knowledge it, would be impossible for them to exercise faith in him (Ibid., page 43). Now as to the third requirement in the _ formula-for-faith, that of gaining an actual knowledge that the course of one's life is according to the divine will— this is the place where the greatest obstacles are found. On this point the Prophet's language is: "An actual knowledge to any person, that the course of life which he pursues is according to the will of God, is essentially necessary to enable him to have that confidence in God without which no person can obtain eternal life"' (Ibid., page 57). In other words, faith is born of righteousness; faith follows obedience; faith is the power which God gives to those who serve him in righteousness and in truth unto the end. What, then, is the revealed answer to the apostolic plea, "Lord, Increase our faith''? Surely it is this: Faith comes by hearing the word of God, by accepting the apostles and prophets who represent Deity, by learning the true doctrines of salvation. Faith comes because we let the seed of the word swell in our bosoms until light and understanding fill our souls. Faith comes when we believe in our hearts that God actually exists, when we accept the truth as to his character, perfections, and attributes. And, finally, faith comes, increases, and is tested as we so 


 live as to gain the actual assurance that our lives are in harmony with the divine will. And when it comes, what glories it brings! Hear, in conclusion, the words of the Prophet: When faith comes it brings its train of attendants with it—apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers, gifts, wisdom, knowledge, miracles, healings, tongues, interpretation of tongues, etc. All these appear when faith appears on the earth, and disappear when it disappears from the earth; for these are the effects of faith, and always have attended, and always will, attend it. For where faith is, there will the knowledge of God be also, with all things which pertain thereto—revelations, visions, and dreams, as well as every necessary thing, in order that the possessors of faith may be perfected, and obtain salvation; for God must change, otherwise faith will prevail with him. And he who possesses it will, through it, obtain all necessary knowledge and wisdom, until he shall know God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, whom he has sent—whom to know is eternal life (Ibid., page 69).
