[Vol52 | August 1965 | Page 569 | Special Feature | Companionship of Couples Through the Family Home Evening | Lila Walch]
hers and sisters to applaud. There would be no surprise dessert, kept hidden by the one in charge until just the proper moment. There would be no little ones to lead in thanking Heavenly Father for his blessings in the warm, loving way of those who have recently been in his presence. Tonight there would be no teenage attitudes to puzzle and challenge the parents. No fifteen-year-old Jim to act bored and a bit rebelkous, but to blend his spirit with that of the family as the evening progressed. There would be no sweet Pam, bubbling with excitement and eager to share her feelings with all who would listen. There would be no Frank nor David to add to the discussion of the lesson. Tonight, there would be just Brother and Sister Johnson—and the success of the Family Home Evening in this household depended on the attitude of these two people. Sister Johnson remembered her reaction to the _ bishop's announcement in sacrament meeting when he said that Thursday night was being designated as "Family Home Evening Night" in their stake. She had thought, Well, this does not involve us, we have no children at home. And then her mind drifted to other wards in other stakes where their children were living. She hoped that their bishops were making similar announcements. It was such a fine program for young families.

[Companionship of Couples Through the Family Home Evening Lila Walch]

Her mind had come back into the 


 chapel just in time to hear the bishop conclude his announcement, "This program is for everyone. We expect all members of this ward to follow the counsel of the prophet who has said that parents should guide children, not arbitrarily, but through the kind example of a father and a loving mother." Of course, they would have to hold their Family Home Evening program. How else could they set an example, except by doing what they were asked to do? Even if the family could not be with them, they could share, through their letters, this wonderful program of teaching the gospel in the home. Sister Johnson thought of the precious Thursday evenings she had enjoyed with her husband since the time that the Home Teachers had brought the Family Home Evening Manual into their home. She thought of the night when the suggested activity for an older couple had been to make a list of the qualities they admired and appreciated in their children. How very special the evening had become when her husband began by telling her of the things he admired in her. How easy it was, then, to tell him of the qualities he possessed that had helped to build a happy home. Then followed a discussion of each of the children and, somehow, that night, distances were spanned and the sons and daughters had become a close part of the Johnson's Family Home Evening. There had been other nights when the children had seemed to be a part of the Family Council. There was the time when Frank 570 had written for advice concerning the buying of a new home. David had asked about an opportunity he had to continue his education. On one such occasion her husband had read to her from the Melchizedek Priesthood Lessons (1965), "It is a wonderful thing when parents and children can form a partnership that carries throughout the life of all. The partnership does not end at the marriage of the children.... Children work as hard as they can to achieve their place in life on their own merits, but they have the security of knowing they can rely on the counsel, support and help of various kinds from the parents if they are needed" (page 18). Tus partnership, this feeling of sharing the joys and the problems of the family, had kept the Johnsons from feeling envious when some of their friends, who had children living near, had told them of special occasions when they had been asked to participate in a Home Evening Program with their grandchildren. To be with their family would be wonderful, but to feel that they were with you in interests, was also good. Sister Johnson thought again I how very blessed she was to have one night a week reserved to spend with her husband in a study of the scriptures and the gospel truths. She thought how much they had learned during the past year concerning their relationship to their Heavenly Father, to Jesus Christ, to the Holy Ghost, and to the Church.