	SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
ELLEN CURTIS SPENCER CLAWSON.
	IT is very painful to be called to part
with those we have known and loved so
many years, and with whom we have been
closely associated in our life and labor.
The sister whose demise we now record
was a dear friend of bye-gone days, and her
death calls up many reminiscences and ex-
periences of the past. A true and sincere
friend at all times and in all places was
Sister Ellen C. Clawson; her life has been a
noble example from her childhood until her
spirit took its flight from earth to a brighter
realm. Her last moments, just previous to
her departure, were singularly calm and
peaceful. One of her daughters remarked
to the writer that she was quite sure her
mother had an escort to accompany her to
the spirit world.
	Sister Clawson's death occurred Aug. 25,
1896. Her husband and all her children were
gathered around her bedside, where she lay
perfectly conscious and, as ever during her
life, thoughtful of every one but herself.
Her faculties of mind were bright and active
until the last when her beautiful gentle
spirit departed from this world to join the
innumerable hosts of Saints who have
gone before.
	Sister Clawson was of New England
parentage. Her grandfather, Daniel Spenc-
er served in the Revolutionary war; her
father Orson Spencer, was college bred and
distinguished for his scholarly attainments.
He was a Baptist minister prior to his be-
coming a Latter-day Saint. Her mother,
Catherine Curtis, was also of Puritan de-
scent. As a child and a young girl Miss
Spencer endeared herself to a host of young
people to whom she has always been
strongly attached, though many of them
have passed on before her. She was bap-
tized at nine years of age in the Mississippi
River at Nauvoo. At the time of the exo-
dus from Illinois, her mother who had
never been accustomed to any hardships
(until leaving her home in the East) was
taken sick and died a martyr to the cruel
persecutions of the Saints. The eldest
daughter immediately assumed the duties
of a little mother to the children of the
household; and all through that toilsome
journey to the encampment on the Missouri
River (now called Florence) she faithfully
performed her duty for her father and the
little ones.
	About six months after the death of Mrs.

[Column 2]
Spencer, Elder Orson Spencer was called
on a mission to Great Britain and the little
daughter took charge of the family crossing
the plains, assisted by such help in domestic
cares as could be furnished by those who
were like herself journeying towards the
valley of the Great Salt Lake. Here she
fulfilled the same duties until the return of
her father from his mission to Europe.
	In March 1850 Miss Spencer was united
in marriage to Hiram B. Clawson a very
popular young man in Salt Lake at that
time, and since then well known here and
elsewhere in mercantile and business affairs.
He has been for several years past bishop
of the Twelfth ward of this city. Mrs. 
Clawson has been the mother of fourteen
children, nine of whom are still living, and
she has numerous grandchildren. She was
almost idolized by her own family, which
cannot be wondered at when one considers
how particularly unselfish her whole life
has been. Although extremely diffident in
all public affairs, yet because of her intense
devotion to her religion, she accepted a
position that brought her into prominence
in women’s organizations. In April, 1879,
she was elected to preside over the Primary
Association in the Twelfth ward, and June
19, 1880, she was called and set apart at a
Conference held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, to preside over the Primary Asso-
ciation in the Salt Lake Stake. This of-
fice she has filled with honor and to the
entire satisfaction of all interested parties
ever since. She had a particular gift in this
direction, and with her Counselors has
traveled in this Stake, organizing and en-
couraging the labors of the sisters and the
advancement of the children as much as
possible for sixteen years. She is greatly
beloved by the children all through this
Stake of Zion, and wherever she is known.
	Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson was a member of
the Reapers Club from its first organization
and a regular attendant until her delicate
health prevented, but came occasionally
since her first serious illness, always indeed
whenever she felt able. To the writer she
often spoke of her interest in the club work
and her desire to keep in touch with the
topics of the times, and to make such ad-
vancement along all lines as would better
qualify her to do good to all humanity. In
the best sense of the word Sister Clawson
was a true philanthropist and possessed that
sweet charity “that thinketh no evil.”
Looking over the large list of names of
members of the Reapers Club, we find that
Ellen C. Clawson is the first one whose
death has caused a vacancy, out of about
sixty names that have been enrolled since
it was first organized, Oct. 3, 1892.
	Her loss will be deeply felt in the commu-
nity where she has labored so faithfully, as
well as by her own particular friends and
family. The writer herself feels deeply the
loss of her society and friendship, but fully
realizes that her lovely character, her pure
life, her integrity to the Gospel, have en-
titled her to the exaltation for which she
lived and sacrificed, and that her joy now is
beyond expression. Jesus said “It hath not
entered into the heart of man to conceive
the glory our Father hath in store for them
that love him.”
	Therefore, we should all be reconciled
when one of our number departs who has
“fought the good fight and kept the faith,”
knowing she has worked out for herself "a
far more exceeding and eternal weight of
glory,” in the celestial kingdom.

[Column 3]
"THOU art not with the frozen dead
	Whom earth in the earth we lay,
While the bearers softly tread,
	And the mourners kneel and pray;
From thy semblance dumb and stark.
	The soul has taken its flight—
Out of the finite dark, 
	Into the Infinite light."


