BY MRS. VICTORIA ALEXANDRA STONE.
“THE mountains are growing old.”—Talmage.
Are the mountains old? Old, did you say?
	Aye, but when will they be stronger?
For they lift their heads as strong today
	As in the days when they were younger.
in pride they defy the lightning’s wrath,
	And the hoarsely bellowing thunder,
While they cleave a path for the tempest’s breath
	Which the storm has cleft asunder.

Old did you say? are they growing old?
	Aye, but when shall they be older ?
For time rolls on with its tale untold
	And the heart of man grows colder.
Oh, dear are the hills that our fathers trod
	Made dearer by song and story
But dearer by far are the hills of God,
	That shine ’neath the shine of glory.

Are the mountains old? If they are who cares?
	Since high in his cloud of thunder,
He sits; and the sword in his right hand bears
	That cleaves the rocks asunder.
Oh, rich is his love as the earth is broad.
	And the heart and the hand grow stronger,
To think we shall dwell on the hills of God,
	When time shall be no longer!


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETING.
	SYNOPSIS of minutes of meeting held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
Augusts 8, 1896, President M. Isabella

[Column 2]
Horne presiding. Singing “O, Jesus the
Giver;” prayer by Counselor E. Webb;
singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and after
some corrections approved. President
Horne addressed the audience upon home
matters and referred with much feeling to
the condition of the government at the
present time, and the necessity of women
voting for good men; alluded to the wor-
ship of Mammon by the world, and especi-
ally the keeping of the Sabbath day holy.
Spoke Of Sister Eliza’s words concerning
those who attended these meetings, that they
were the “salt of the wards.” Prayed the
blessing of God upon all and His Holy
Spirit to guide us.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball felt very desir-
ous of attending these meetings; thought
our nation was in a very critical condition
today, spoke seriously of the coming elec-
tion and the great importance of it; said she
had studied political matters all her life, and
that they were a part of her religion; she ex-
pected to study this subject more carefully
now than ever, and to do more praying
over it and she considered it the duty of
everybody; there was nothing that absorbed
the minds of the people as much as this
subject, because of the interests involved.
Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
some of the sayings of Sister Eliza Snow
and the fulfillment of them; said she was
not much in love with politics until the
people could learn to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in dealing with these questions.
Prayed the Lord would prepare us all to
be saved.
	Sister Hannah Conklin, Maria Barnes and
others bore faithful testimonies to the truth
of this work. Singing “How firm a found-
ation.” Sister Sarah Alger from St.
George made some interesting remarks.
Sister Alger is familiar with sericulture and
has labored much in its interest in Dixie;
is President of the Silk Association of St.
George.
	Sister Zina Young, President of the Re-
lief Society, felt the walls of the house
were sacred; where so many good things
had been said, and so many hearts comfort-
ed. ‘‘Sisters stand firm and never trip
over the car of state, but keep it evenly bal-
anced; say with Brother Goddard ‘Who’s
on the Lord’s side, who?’ ” Entreated the
sisters to be prayerful and made a very apt
illustrat on concerning prayer in domestic
affairs. Referred to her recent visit to
Pocatello, Idaho, and gave an account of
the meetings held there; prayed the Lord to
bless us and that we might be prepared to
see the Savior’s face.
	Sister Mary L. Morris spoke of some re-
marks Sister Zina had made twenty years
ago and that they had always been with
her; made other good remarks.
	Pres’t. Horne gave out the notice of the
excursion to Saltair on the 20th, stating the
last one had been such a failure on account
of the unpleasant weather. Singing “Lord
dismiss us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
by Counselor E. J. Stevenson.
		ZINA Y. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.
	SYNOPSIS of minutes of meeting held in
the 14th Ward Hall August 22, 1896,
President M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing ‘‘Arise, O glorious Zion;” prayer by
Sister Lydia D. Alder singing “Now let us
rejoice.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and accepted. President Horne was
not feeling very well, but was anxious to

[Column 3]
hear others speak; realized the sisters were
improving and also gradually overcoming
their timidity; it took courageous people to
be Latter-day Saints, we should pray for
strength to overcome our trials and tribula-
tions; spoke earnestly upon the subject of
prayer and its helpfulness in all things.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant spoke of having come
to the meeting to see the faces of her sisters
as she could not hear, but although she
could not hear what was said she partook
of the spirit of the gatherings she attended.
Alluded to the signs of the times and was
impressed that the time was short; begged
the sisters to guard against fault-finding;
gave much good advice and suggested that
we were a blessed people, to be shielded
and protected from the terrible calamities
that were happening in the world; said her
greatest trial was her deafness; wished we
would all pray for her that her hearing
might be restored.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor referred to the
remarks of the former speakers, and partic-
ularly to Sister Grant whose patient aud
sweet spirit notwithstanding her afflictions
was an example to us all. Protested
against evil speaking especially “against
the Lord's anointed;” it brought darkness
and unpleasantness and was not the Spirit
of God. “We have a right to judge our-
selves but no one else, we must have char-
ity; every hour in the day we should say
Oh, God help us and guide us continually
in every act of our lives.”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to a con-
versation with a strange lady who had visit-
ed the Tabernacle, and the peculiar feeling
the lady had when she looked over to the
Temple and of other remarks made in the
course of conversation, which showed im-
pressions were made upon strangers by our
surroundings and our teachings even in
private talks with people we met casually.
Sisters Bozzi, Barrows and others bore
beautiful testimonies calculated to strength-
en the faith of all who heard. Sister Sarah
Phelps realized the work was rolling along
and the people were being tested; asked
the Lord to show to the young people in
Zion what was passing, and give them the
strength to withstand the temptations
around them, and keep them from evil.
	Sister Julia C. Howe thought it very
necessary that we should have the spirit of
discernment; exhorted the sisters to set
good examples in all places, and to teach
at all times the principles taught in the
holy Scriptures, to observe the Sabbath
day and to keep all the commandments;
realized we were a blessed people.
	Sister Margaret Brown gave some of
her experiences and how she came to join
the Church, and repeated part of a con-
versation with a young man whom she
met and believed she had sown some
good seed in his heart.
	Singing “Let Zion in her beauty rise.”
Sister Rawlings bore her testimony, and
after the transaction of some business, and
giving out the notice of the Relief Society
Stake Conference, the meeting was ad-
journed; singing “This God is the God
we adore.” Benediction by Counselor E.
Webb.
		ZINA Y. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WHY should not women vote? The es-
sence of all republicanism is that they who
feel the pressure of the law shall have a
voice in its enactment.—REV. JOHN PIER-
PONT.


