LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

Friday, Nov. 22, 1895
	AFTER breakfast carriages were ordered for
the Roman Forum. We were to tread the
ruins, “Each memorable spot, where Ro-
mulus stood, Tully spoke and Caesar fell.”
We left the carriages at the Capitol, which
is 160 ft. above sea level, by the ground
staircase. La Cordounata, which in its
present form dates from 1536; at its foot
are two lions of Egyptian porphyry; at its
head the colossal statues of Castor and Pol-
lux; beyond these the sculptures, “mis-
named” the Trophies of Marius, and the
statue of Constantine, and his son, the
open space here, the ancient Intermoun-
train where Brutus harangued the people
after the murder of Caesar. In the center

[Column 2]
the only perfect ancient equestrian statue is
of Marcus Aurelius. On the right is the
palace of the Conservatori, on the left the
Museum of the Capitol, both designed by
Michael Angelo. The Palace of the Sena-
tor is on the site of the Tabularium, a build-
ing used tor the state Archives, and is a
combination of the vaulted roof and the
arch; the fountain at the foot is adorned
with statues of the river-gods, the Tiber
and the Nile. The tower contains the great
bell, rung only to announce the carnival, or
the death of a Pope.
	Descending on the south side, we reach
the Roman Forum, an open place where
Courts were held. The street “Via Lacra”
divided the Temples from the public mar-
ket place. Mr. Mc V. gave us a lecture
upon Roman Archaeology, beginning with
Ancient Rome and the Hellenic Period,
until the present time. Enough of the
ruins remain to tell of the splendor of the
buildings; there are massive stone remains
of the orator’s tribune, erected by Julius
Caesar, facing the Capitol is the Temple of
Caesar, near which Caesar had erected a
new oratorical tribune; from this tribune at
the funeral of the murdered dictator, Mark
Antony pronounced his celebrated ora-
tion.
	We stood where Virginius stood when he
killed his daughter to save her honor. We
were deeply interested in Plazza Ara Coeli.
On sight of the Temple of Jupiter Capito-
lenus, the tradition is, Augustus erected an
altar to commemorate the prophecy of the
Delphic Sibyl, respecting the birth of
Jesus.
	On the central spot where the flight of
steps leading to the Capitol joins the flight
of steps leading to the Church, on these
steps, when a Pagan Temple, the priests
(133 B C) thrust out Tiberius Gracchus,
who sought sanctuary here, and was killed
by the Patrician mob. Fifteen hundred
years later, the Temple had become a
Christian Church, the priests barred the
doors against Rienzi, who died there cover-
ed by a hundred wounds. Julius Caesar is
said to have descended these steps on his
knees after his victories in Gaul and Brit-
ian. One could spend months agreeably
in these magnificent ruins. While looking
at the Colosseum “The great Flavian
Amphitheatre of Imperial Rome,” one
friend remarked to me “What mattered it
that all this splendor was buried under the
ashes of Vesuvius?”
	We returned to our carriages. I am al-
ways interested in people, during our drives
the people, beggars and donkeys amuse me
immensely. The streets too are pictur-
esque, with their washing hanging from
the windows; while I would not adopt the
custom, I admire it here. Our destination
was the Vatican Palace, on Vatican Hill.
(The hill not included in Ancient Rome.)
The Vatican has been the official residence
and palace of the Popes since the 15th Century.
The outside does not impress one as splen-
did. We secured tickets of admission,
passed the guards, (Italian solders) whose
costume and hats with feathers drooping
over the right shoulder, I had only seen in
Opera or a picture, up the immense flight
of steps to the entrance of this remarkable
building with its 11,000 rooms, fronting
and inclosing twenty different courts; it
contains much architectural display in the
building on the courts, and in the interior
of halls and galleries, and is noted for its
wall paintings, which we were to see first.

[Column 3]
Crossing one long hall and going to an
open window, we had a fine view, and
breathed in the delicious odors from the
gardens of the Pope; the walks were broad
and lined with flowers; there the orange
and citron grew, the grounds were so
beautiful and bright, we judged he must
pass much time in them and hoped to catch
sight of him, but they told us, now, he is
seldom seen there, being too feeble; his
kitchen garden (as they call them in Eng-
land) showed perfect order, and every good 
thing growing.
	In all the rooms were artists busy; I
lingered near one who seemed fond of
copying Fra Angelico’s celestial creatures;
they are gorgeous in robes of gold and
green, in gold and scarlet with radiant
wings, their faces turned heavenward, and
holding trumpets, and shown sometimes
seem to be sounding the key-note. He is
the only artist, so an Italian told me, who
paints on a gold background; he with
Raphael and Murillo, are called the “Paint-
ers of Heaven” but Angelico’s required
study ere I saw their extreme beauty. We
passed rapidly along the Sistine Chapel,
built in 1473; it is 133 ft, long and 45 ft.
wide. The side walls are adorned by such
artists as Perugins, Signorelli, Potticelli
and Ghirlandajo, a Florentine; one of his
was “The calling of the Apostles on the
Lake of Genesarath.”
	The entire ceiling is covered with the
renowned frescoes of Michael Angelo, be-
ginning with the Creation of Light, the
Sun and Moon, Separating the waters from
the land, Creation of Adam and Eve, the
fall and expulsion, the Deluge etc., the
angels Jessie, Asa, Esechias, Josiah, Zara-
bable, Hosea and others. On the altar is
his great fresco “The Last Judgment”,
which he painted many years later and
which occupied him seven years. It is
considered marvelous. All the pictures
have suffered from dampness and incense.
My first impression was disappointment,
but they handed me a mirror which
brought the paintings nearer, and they
began to look beautiful and interesting.
The Loggie of Raphael, are corridors dec-
orated by Raphael and his pupils, “Joseph
interpreting Pharaoh’s Dream”, Raphael
and Ginlio Romano, “Temptation of
Adam and Eve” by the same, “Moses
saved from the Nile”, “Meeting of Jacob
and Rachel” by Raphael and other pupils.
The Stanza, are a series of rooms with
frescoes by Raphael; one the most famous,
“School of Athens”; all are famous but
faded and defaced. It is useless to try and
write minutely of the beautiful and wonder-
ful things we saw. The Museum of
Sculpture contains the largest collection of
classical statuary in Europe; most of the
pieces are Roman copies of Greek originals.
We were anxious to see the Apollo Bel-
videre, Laocoon and some others we had
heard so much of, but we left this and the
Etruscon and Egyptian museums, until
another day. The tapestries are fine,
and the Ancient maps in Golleria Geogra-
fica. The library is famous. In connec-
tion with the library is an immense
collection of gems and objects of art, pre-
sented to different Popes. We just walked
through it, looking only at a few things
as it would take months to see all.
	The Picture Gallery contains choice
paintings among which are Raphael’s
“Transfiguration” and “Madonna del
Foliguo” she and the infant are up in the


clouds with angels all about them. There
are paintings by Murillo so famous for his
perfect flesh tints, and Domenichino’s
masterpiece of the "Last Communion of
St. Jerome” and the lovely “Madonna del
Resario” by Sassoferrati; she and the infant
Jesus are enthroned in the clouds, her feet
resting on the crescent, with angels all
about them. We now visited the Barber-
ino Palace to see Reni Guido’s “Beatrice
Cenci.” I always thought her’s the sweet-
est face, but heard it written up as baby
face, so judged it might not be all I im-
agined; but it is indeed beautiful, and those
eyes—well I have seen sick babies when
easy for a moment after intense suffering,
look up with just that expression. The
other one where her lawyer is urging her
to confess and end the torture, looks just as
I imagine (after seeing the rack) one would
look, having endured its exquisite torture.
	We now drove outside the gates along
the Appian Way. “And from thence,
when the brethren heard us, they came to
meet us as far as Appii-forum, and The
Three Taverns, whom when Paul saw he
thanked God and took courage.” Acts,
28 chapter, 15 verse. And a delightful
drive it is; when as far as the “Three
Taverns” we returned, going into the
Catacombs of St. Calixtus, original palace
of Sepulture of Saint Cecilia. We entered
the chapel where a priest gave us lighted
tapers, then showing us some sacred relics,
among them the print of the Savior’s foot-
steps in the sand, we began to descend,
with the solemn warning to all keep to-
gether near the priest, as so many had been
lost forever. Everything was so awe-in-
spiring and this filled us with fear, as we
filed along through the narrow passes
which were a perfect maze, and so short,
and the turnings so numerous; and when
you know they are thousands of miles,
and ever so many stories under ground,
you may judge we obeyed orders. We saw
the blood of the martyrs and their bones,
the slabs of marble which told who lay
buried there; the turtle dove and branch of
laurel indicated a young girl. We saw the
turning where the Christians used to con-
fuse the soldiers when they came to take
them. There were two turnings side by
side, and of course the soldiers ran down
the first; that was the last of them thank
God! All breathed a sigh of relief when
we reached the outside, and were thankful
we lived in this 19th Century. I have been
told the burning of so many candles in the
Catholic Church is emblematic of the time
when they dare not read the Bible openly,
and sought sanctuary in those old tombs.
	Driving home via the Corso,—a most
beautiful street at night; we were cheered
at dinner with singing and music.
KIM.


