WOMAN’S DAY AT SALTAIR.

	THE Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
and the Women of the State arranged for an
excursion to Saltair on Tuesday, August
20. The affair was in the hands of a com-
mittee of women represented by Mrs. M. I.
Horne, President of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake, and Mrs. E. B. Wells Pre-
sident of the State Suffrage Association. The
day was not very satisfactory even though the
Carnival of Madrid was well advertised,
and consequently many who had intended
to patronize the ladies did not attend; how-
ever there was quite a good-sized gathering
and a rather pleasing program of exercises,
though one of the distinguished gentlemen
who was expected to speak disappointed
the audience by his absence, Judge W. H.
King. The exercises commenced at 5 p.
m. General John Q. Cannon acting as
Master of Ceremonies, called the assembly
to order and announced prayer by Sister
Zina D. H. Young, who then offered an
eloquent prayer, and next came the Pream-
ble and Sentiments by ladies in different
parts of the state, a part of which were
read by General Cannon in a clear distinct
voice, followed by the Governor whose re-
marks to the women of the state are given
here.
 PREAMBLE.
	IN all the years past since the pioneers enter-
ed this then barren, desert valley, years full
of startling episodes and thrilling incidents,
woman has fulfilled her part of the pro-
gramme equally with man, and has emulat-
ed the noble example of the heroic pilgrim
mothers of New England, in bearing the
burdens and sharing the toil of the men
who have made the “desert blossom as the
rose,” and after many years of patient
struggle and endurance have at last suc-
ceeded in establishing a great common-
wealth, ranking equal with other states in
this free Republic, aud in one respect
surpassing all, except Wyoming and Colo-
rado, in according to women equal suffrage
with men. Thus has a new era opened up
for woman. She has now entered into her
land of promise; the eyes of the world are turn-
ed hither to see what the women of Utah will
do with this boasted right, the ballot. We
must not disappoint our friends or gratify
our opponents by our indifference or neglect,
but show our true patriotism in this hour
of our country’s greatest need. We should
prove worthy the sublime confidence re-
posed in us by those valiant men, who
championed our cause in the memorable
Constitutional Convention of 1895.
	We cannot too strongly urge upon wo-
men voters the grave responsibility
devolving upon them in the present condi-
tion of affairs in our state and nation, and
entreat them to come proudly forward and
take part in the struggle for right now be-
ing agitated, by casting their votes and us-
ing their utmost influence to maintain the
principles of justice, freedom and liberty,
our noble inheritance from our revered fore-


[Column 1]
fathers, according to their honest convic-
tions of right and wrong.
SENTIMENTS
	THE sacred right, but at the same .time
privilege, of the franchise has been obtained
by the women of Utah.
	We are watched by three classes of men
and women. By the cynic who expects
that we will make but a poor use or, per-
chance, no use at all of it, by the timid
women who fear for “the consequences”,
and by earnest women of many states who
look to us to vindicate their hopes and as-
pirations. And deeper down in the heart
of things there is the great need for the
good, pure resolute women of these United
States to rise in their might and help right
the deplorable condition of our country!
Let every woman voter in Utah feel her
responsibility and study the questions at
issue, and then vote her convictions.

	WOMAN’S domestic qualities will in no
sense deteriorate because of her political
equalities; she will lose none of her woman-
ly wifely attributes; her influence will be
exerted to purify the political atmosphere
and secure a rigorous enforcement of all
just laws, and an equally prompt repeal of
obnoxious ones.
	The female pioneer element, which is
largely represented in this state, now as in
days of old, developes the noblest womanly
characteristics, and already is observed a
marked independence of action and charact-
er which is seldom found in older civiliza-
tions where fashion and social distinction
rule with autocratic sway.

	The franchise is one of the highest privi-
leges granted to the individual under a free
government. If to vote is one of the great-
est privileges, is it not then a sacred duty
which no woman who desires the sanctity
of her home protected, the right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness, sus-
tained and preserved inviolate, both of her
loved ones and herself, will neglect to per-
form? It is now an imperative obligation
devolving upon the women of Utah, to en-
courage, teach and sustain each other in
voting intelligently for honest efficient
officers, who will labor unswervingly for
the best interest of the people trusting
them with the affairs of state, county or
city. 
	Whether women purify the ballot or not
remains to be seen; but most certainly they
will add an element tending to greater per-
fection, the same as exemplified in the
family, which is the unit of government.
	A one sided organization only half per-
forms the work; when the other half is
added it rounds out into a perfect whole.
	If the study of politics is the main work of
women’s clubs from now until November,
a more determining vote for the good
of the whole country will be polled than
ever before in Utah. Women all rise to
the hight of your privileges!

	A victory gained for a great principle if
barren of results, is more to be deplored
than defeat; for defeat leads to renewed
effort, while victory followed by apathy
and indifference, is like Dead Sea Fruit and
the Apples of Sodom. If the women of
Utah who one year ago were earnestly de-
manding and striving for the right of suf-
frage, now sit down supinely and fold their
hands and say, “We have the ballot, we

[Column 2]
will vote but beyond that will take no fur-
ther interest in politics”, they are not
worthy of the rights of citizenship in a
growing state or great nation.  
	The acceptance of the position and privi-
leges of a citizen carries with it the obliga-
tions and responsibilities of citizenship, and
in my opinion, it is the duty of every wo-
man, not only to vote, but inform herself
on the vital issues of the day, and acquaint
herself thoroughly with the great principles
that uplift and benefit humanity, and un-
derlie all correct legislation, good govern-
ment and true prosperity. Having done
this for herself, I believe she is then bound
by her duty to the state and nation to dis-
seminate those principles, and to see, as far
as she can assist them, that all other women
within her reach, vote and understand what
they are voting for. It is only through the
efforts and influence of women alive to
their duties and responsibilities that the
state or nation will be benefited by wo-
man’s enfranchisememt.

	I think we have had a great privilege
granted us in having the franchise at such
an important time, when great political
questions are confronting us as at the pre-
sent. When we as citizens of this great
Republic, will feel in duty bound to take
part in the great issues that lie before us;
and may we do so conscientiously according
to our convictions of right, and strive with
all diligence to understand our duties and
the great responsibilities that rest upon us
as citizens of this great Republic, as well as
of our own fair state of Utah.
	We know we are on the eve of a great
financial crisis; its importance we can only
realize in part; how it will end the Lord
only knows. We must use the wisdom of
Solomon, aided by the Spirit of the Lord to
direct us that we may be on His side, then
we need not fear what the result would be.
	I often think of the reply that President
Joseph Smith made to Senator Douglas
when he asked him how he managed to
govern the people. He said he taught
them correct principles and let them govern
themselves.
	That is what we want today, to under-
stand the correct principles that underlie
our Government. It is this lack of know-
ledge with us as a people that I fear at this
time when there is so much at stake. We
have never had such a responsibility resting
upon us before, as the privilege of voting
for the highest official of this great Com-
monwealth; and may we give this question
and every other, that due deliberation, that
we may vote intelligently upon all ques-
tions that come before us, even holding it
as a sacred trust that can be neither bought
nor sold for any consideration. And may
we always have reason to be grateful to
those who worked so faithfully that we
might enjoy political freedom.
GOVERNOR HEBER M. WELLS.
	We are making history rapidly What-
ever future centuries may bring forth, they
must concede to the Nineteenth, that it
revolutionized the world industrially, polti-
ically and religiously.
	Freedom of thought and action was
never so great as now, the yoke of religious
creed or despotic government never so far
removed or successfully repelled, the main-
tainance of human liberties never so well
sustained.
	What wonder then, that this progressive

[Column 3]
age of human enlightenment should witness
the breaking forth of women from the
chrysalis of exclusive domesticity into ac-
tive participation in Government affairs,
and that man’s assumption of the right to
vote and govern, without consultation with
his equal and natural partner and compan-
ion, should be relegated to the past.
	The women of Utah are to be congratu-
lated upon their accession to the rights of
American citizens. To attain these rights
Herculean work has been performed; wo-
men, themselves, as well as men have had
to be converted to the cause, strong antipa-
thies and prejudices have had to be over-
come in both, and only the most persistent
and determined effort could have accom-
plished so much in comparatively so short
a time.
	The credit of this great work belongs to
the women of Utah, for whom no words
of commendation can be misplaced. Their
reward is great for they now enjoy many
privileges that are vouchsafed to but com-
paratively few women of our country.
They will not be content with this, how-
ever, as their cause is too great to permit of
their resting satisfied with merely local
advantages—it is the enfranchisement of
half the Nation, the better half—they are
contending for, and no doubt, the influence
of the women of Utah will be felt in behalf
of “Woman Suffrage” until the last woman
in this broad land shall have been enfran-
chised.
	History will record you among the pion-
eers of this great work, and the memory of
your good deeds will live after you.
	After the Governor’s address W. C. Dun-
bar delighted the audience with selections
upon his Highland bagpipes, and was
warmly applauded. Senator Frank J.
Cannon made a thrilling speech in which
he dwelt strongly upon the present condi-
tion of the masses of the people here and
in the United States, and paid a glowing
tribute to the women of Utah, their cour-
age, integrity and patient endurance of
toil and hardship, and cited incidents in
the life and experience of the General
President of the Relief Society, making a
pathetic picture and extoling her virtues
and excellence of character. No greater or
more eloquent compliment could be paid
to a mother in Israel. We expected his
remarks in brief to publish, but hope now
to have them for the next issue of the
paper.
	Miss Webster’s skipping-rope dance
came next and was very pretty and grace-
ful and in perfect time. Miss Webster is
quite a favorite wherever she appears.
The bagpipes were introduced again and
were as welcome as at first. Then followed
a further reading of sentiments and resolu-
tions.

	THIS is our sentiment: Woman, the
equal of man, and the crowning glory of
the celestial kingdom.

	I think that as women are amenable to
the laws of our state and bear equally the
responsibilities with men, woman should
also share in all the privileges accorded to
men, not only in voting, but in holding
offices of honor, emolument and trust suit-
able to their sex.

	IN my judgment the women of Utah,
having been given the elective franchise,
would do well to read the editorial and


[Column 1]
political portions of our own state press,
which not only has the welfare of the peo-
ple of the state in view, but is as patriotic
as any portion of our national press; and
they should endeavor to post themselves
upon the questions that are to be settled by
the ballot, and in voting should be guided
more by judgment and principle than by
partisanship.

	FOR a long time I have been in favor of
suffrage. I believe it will be the means of
elevating us. Woman can accomplish
more than man if she is prepared for the
work. She can have statesmen born and
raised under her influence so that they can
become a power in the land. I believe
there is a need for such men, and it can
never be accomplished while women are
considered inferior to men. I don’t see
why we cannot understand the political
situation of our country. I am convinced
that if we are united we can do a great
deal of good towards elevating our race.

	HAVING, after a long struggle, gained
the right of suffrage, I think it becomes
our duty as citizens of the new state of
Utah, to arouse from our lethargy and use
all our energy and the intelligence God has
given us to study the best way to use this right
not only in this state but also in the nation,
and also use our influence in getting them
to see the necessity of the same.
	Statistics show that a large percent of the
women in the United States are self-sup-
porting.
	They are expected to pay taxes and help
support the Government. This being the
case should they not take an interest in
national affairs? “Taxation without repre-
sentation is tyranny.”
	I would like to ask you gentlemen
and ladies, if the franchise rightly used,
will not tend to morally revolutionize our
government and place it on that grand un-
selfish, unintriguing political platform that
was presented to us by our forefathers.

	WE ought to be alive to the best interest
of the country. We want silver restored to
its full value (sixteen to one) that we can
pay our debts from the products of our
farm's without selling real estate. We
ought to let all other considerations be as
minor ones until that is accomplished, then
see that our laws are carried out, or some
of them mended, and not leave the law in
the hands of men that will not carry them
out, there are thousands of cases where
justice sleeps, and I for one am tired of it.
Can we as women sit by and see such out-
rages commited and not say anything about
it? I say out with such men!
	Let us have honorable men and women
for our officers, and see to it that we get
them. Don’t let us shirk our duties. See
that all women are registered and vote, and
also attend our Primaries. Keep abreast of
the times; stand for our rights and do not
be daunted. These are some of my views
also the most of the women that I am ac-
quainted with. They seem to be waking
up—the women of Utah—to their rights.

	EVERY person of observation who has
noticed the great strides every nation is
making in more humane and liberal govern-
ment. has also noticed the rapid advance-
ment of women throughout the world.
Co-eval with all greatness among nations,
comes the God-given liberty of women.

[Column 2]
Just as the misty clouds of superstition and
fogyism about woman’s sphere gives way
to the scearch-light of truth, will she take
her place politically, and will not only take
her place, but man will willingly recognize
it, learning at last that all their interests are
one. Now that equal suffrage has been
granted to the women of Utah, the obsta-
cles raised by our opponents have all melted
away. Everything works in harmony, and
all seem perfectly satisfied. Ladies who
declared they would never exercise the
franchise, are today enthusiastic over the
great questions that are holding the atten-
tion of the nation, and are ready to cast
their ballots. I see nothing discouraging,
but believe the little stone of Woman Suf-
frage set rolling here in the West will yet fill
the whole earth.

	I think the status of the women in the
new state is very good and is destined to
place woman upon the high elevation des-
tined by her Creator; nor will the true
woman of the state fill less her domestic
relations as a wife and mother because she
has a right estimate of her position and new
responsibilities. She will preserve her
self respect and dignity in her new position
as in her home life, and seek with true
nobility to refine and purify the political
and moral atmosphere.
	The influence of woman is the same
everywhere. Her condition influences the
morals and character of the people in the
community of which she is a member. The
granting of the franchise to women shows
the political status of the people. The wo-
men of the new state asked many times for
this great boon ere it was again bestowed;
and having received it again, I have no
fears that she will abuse this great blessing,
nor transcend the proper limits of womanly
dignity, but by study and thought prove
herself the intellectual peer of her brother
man. Her education is extended; her
knowledge is increased; she is proving her
capabilities to grasp and understand, and
discuss the leading questions of the day as
intelligently as the majority of the other
sex. In many cases her conceptions are
clearer, while her opportunities are increas-
ing and her field of labor widening, I feel
assured she will prove herself equal to the
occasion. I think the women of the new
state will prove to our opponents and the
world at large, that we do appreciate the
franchise, by studying the political issues
of the day and voting for men and measures
that are best calculated to advance the in-
terests of all mankind. Therefore, in my
humble opinion, the granting of the fran-
chise or equal suffrage, has raised the status
of the women In the new state materially
and will eventually prove a great blessing
not only to herself, but to future genera-
tions. Let the good work go on until all
women shall receive the same blessing that
the women of Utah now enjoy, by using
and not abusing this great boon.
RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS, The constitution of the state
provides that the rights of citizens of the
state of Utah to vote and hold office shall
not be denied or abridged on account of
sex; and
	WHEREAS, Experience has taught us
that by woman’s entering into the profes-
sions of law, medicine and teaching, those
professions have been raised to a higher
place; that by her admission to the colleges
and universities of our country the moral

[Column 3]
tone of our institutions of learning has been
elevated and the standard of scholarship ad-
vanced; that by the product of her brain
and pen the progress of the whole human 
race has been promoted; that in the limited
opportunities offered her she has demonstrat-
ed her capacity to grasp governmental
questions and her ability to solve them; to
be equal to that of her male contemporaries;
and
	WHEREAS, Woman possesses in a very
high degree the power to reform, ennoble
and purify every organization of a religious,
social or political nature; now, therefore, be
it
	RESOLVED, That it is the duty of every
woman of the state possessing the requisite
qualifications, to enter into active political
work, to the end that our new privileges
may be exercised in behalf of pure govern-
ment.
	RESOLVED, That we agree to identify
ourselves with the political party that is the
best exponent of our political ideas, and
that we will participate in the Primaries and
Conventions of our respective parties as well
as vote upon election day that our voice
may be heard in formulating our party’s
policy, and that candidates may be nomi-
nated worthy of our support.
	RESOLVED, That we extend our hearty
greetings to our sister voters of the neigh-
boring states of Wyoming and Colorado and
we express the desire that ere long the
people of our whole nation may recognize 
the inestimable blessings conferred upon the 
body politic by the admission of man and
his helpmate, woman, to equal political
privileges.
	(Signed.)
ELIZABETH J. MCFARLANE.
MRS. J. FEWSON SMITH,
ETIZABETH M. PRICE,
				Committee.
FINAL RESOLUTION.
	RESOLVED, That the women of Utah
take the heartiest interest in all organiza-
tions tending to ameliorate the condition of 
women throughout the world.
	That they recognize the great education-
al work of the Federation of Clubs, and will
as far as they are able, co-operate with
them.
	That they sympathize with the persecut-
ed inhabitants of Armenia, and call upon
the nation to show their interest by gener-
ous contributions to a starving nation.
	Mrs. Elizabeth J. McFarlane was intro
duced and recited a very appropriate
selection in a most pleasing style. The
address was entitled “To Our Brothers.’’


