WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETING.
	MINUTES of meeting held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, July 25, 1896,
Prest. M. Isabella Horne presiding Sing-
ing “For the strength of the hills” etc.,
prayer by Sister S. A. Gibson, singing
“We thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
President Horne spoke of the necessity of 
serving the Lord. It is a duty for us to 
attend these meetings as they were organiz-
ed by President Young for the benefit of 
the sisters. The Lord has a a book of re-
membrance, and how can we expect a great
reward if we neglect these opportunities.
Pleasure and vanity seem to be the order
of the day, and the spirit of the times in 
which we live. Life is real and earnest,
how much better if we can look back and be
like Paul, sure of a reward among the just.
Solomon says “For all these things we shall
be brought to judgment.” She said that 
her grandson was healed by faith and the
prayers that were offered up in his behalf.
Felt to mourn the loss of Abraham H.
Cannon, one of Zion’s best, purest and 
brightest men; he has gone to receive the
reward of his labors. We always have our

[Column 2]
Father to bless and comfort us in our sor-
row. We realize the power of Satan, but
we must not be discouraged, but be full of 
faith. Urged the sisters to bear their testi-
monies; we may ask God to help us, but 
if we do not get up and make an effort he
can not do so. She gave much more good
and timely instruction to the sisters.
	A sister felt to thank the Lord that he had 
been so kind to her in permitting her to en-
joy the many blessings of the Gospel.
	Sister Brown felt to thank the Lord for 
His blessings, and it behooves us to meet
often together. Spoke of the blessings
that we have in the Temple. The Lord
made us, is our great physician, and we 
should call on Him to heal us. 
	Sister Martha G. Young felt impressed to 
speak. She always felt a great interest in 
the Relief Society, and knew this was the 
work of God. She spoke of the great bless-
ings of the Lord to her, and said she had felt
to thank Him for the love she had for this
work. “We are sent on a mission and will
have strength to perform it. How blessed 
it is to know that He will bear us through.”
	Sister Jane James bore her testimony;
felt there was nothing else to live for than
this kingdom of God, and knew that the 
Spirit of the Lord was here. She felt to 
rejoice that she had the privilege of seeing 
the prophet Joseph.
	Sister Peterson bore her testimony of 
being healed by faith. Another sister tes-
tified, she had seen the lame walk and the
blind restored to sight, and also had been 
healed herself. She knew the Lord would 
bless those who tried to benefit others, and 
work in the Relief Society. Spoke of the 
missionaries, and the great work they had
to perform; hoped the Lord would bless us
all. A sister sang “Sweetly may the bless-
ed Spirit.”
	A sister bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel. Although she lived some 
distance, she felt that all were working in 
the same cause; spoke of the signs of the 
times, that they indicated the coming of 
the Son of God. Felt that the labor in the 
Temple gave more satisfaction than any
other, and said that inasmuch as we keep
the commandments of the Lord, we shall
be blest and receive our reward.
	Sister Morris sang “O My Father.” A
sister spoke of the great pleasure she re-
ceived from her work in the Temple. Her
husband’s father, who was dead, came to 
her in a dream and said: “You are free and
I am in a prison, why do you not do a 
work for me so that I can be liberated.”
Felt like spending her life in doing work
for the dead. She also spoke on the Word
of Wisdom, and told how her children were
all afflicted with diptheria and she told her
Father that she had kept the Word of Wis-
dom, and now she claimed His blessing.
Her children were all saved as He had 
promised.
	Sister Smith prayed for the kingdom of 
God, and bore her testimony to the truth of 
this work. Spoke of her sorrow at the 
death of Apostle A. H. Cannon, and said we 
must love one another. Asked the bless-
ing of the Lord on all. 
	Another sister spoke of the necessity of 
guarding our children to keep them from 
evil. Testified to her boy being cured of 
fits through faith; but he was left blind and 
afterwards had his sight restored. 
	Sister Barrow spoke of the time of the 
maimed and frozen emigrants, and the 
great faith needed to endure these things. 

[Column 3]
Spoke of the great care needed to guard our
young people; said we all want our child-
ren hereafter, urged the necessity of moth-
ers to teach them continually. She also
bore testimony of her children being healed
by faith, and of one son afterwards going
on a mission to New Zealand for three
years.
	Sister Zina Young spoke of her daughter-
in-law who the doctors said had a cataract
in her eyes, and who would be hopelessly 
blind, receiving her sight through faith. 
Thought the younger people should take 
an interest in the Relief Society and attend, 
so that they would be able to perform their
duties when the older sisters passed away. 
Joseph Smith said this society was organiz-
ed after the order of the Holy Priesthood.
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde said that her 
father was unable to meet with his family 
at his birthday party before his death, but 
sent a letter in which he expressed a desire
among other things, that his family should
identify themselves with the Relief Society
and other organizations that were estab-
lished in the Church, and said: “While
you are receiving information and benefit,
you at the same time, may make yourselves
useful and a blessing unto others.” He
said the Prophet Joseph Smith organized
the Relief Society for that purpose. She felt 
a just desire, in her humble way, to use 
her talents to help build up the kingdom of
God.
	A sister made a few remarks on the 
promises of the Lord, and said those who 
grind the faces of the poor will be destroyed. 
	Sister Mary P. Silver said that the M. I.
A. and other associations had grown out of 
the Relief Society. 
	Sister Hazon had a humble testimony to 
bear of the truth of the work, and prayed 
that we might all remain faithful. 
	Sister Phelps thought we all had a know-
ledge of the Lord, and hoped we might all 
give heed to the prophets and prophetesses
among us. She hoped the sisters would all 
have integrity in the exercise of suffrage,
and not any one of them sell her vote. 
	Sister Morris knew this was the work of 
God, had received many blessings from the 
Lord. Another sister felt timid but thank-
ful for the Gospel. Felt that the Lord bless-
ed her greatly. 
	Sister Horne spoke of the contemplated 
excursion to Saltair. Thought there was 
a lack of respect for the aged people, and 
also to the authorities of the Church. 
Spoke of the organization of the Society;
said Joseph the prophet organized it, and it 
can not be organized without the priest-
hood, aud would say to the sisters, do not 
organize your societies without consulting 
the bishop; and strive to have harmony in 
all that you do. 
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. 
Singing “When first the glorious light of
Truth.” Benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe. 
		A.T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


IN New York there is a free-silver club
of women to urge the election of Mr. Bryan.
It has been suggested that these women
favor silver, because speech is silver and
silence is gold. But this can scarcely be
We have every confidence that the great
and overwhelming majority of women are
for gold. Gold is the metal of the wed-
ding-ring.—Baltimore Sun.


