WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CANNON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.
	ON the 6th of August 1896, at 2 p.m.,
a meeting was held in the Cannon school
house for the purpose of organizing a Re-
lief Society in that ward. Bishop Lewis
M. Cannon and one of his Counselors, F.
A. Gould, were present and also Elder L.
John Nuttall, and some sisters who had
been invited to be present. Bishop L. M.
Cannon presided and meeting opened with
singing, “Come, come ye Saints;” prayer
was offered by Elder Gould; continued by
singing “Now let us rejoice.” Sister M.
Isabella Horne, President of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake, was the first
speaker; she made some explanations in re-
gard to the Society as a whole, its origin
and growth, and the changes made to se-
cure property legally; also as to the Society
becoming connected to the National Council
of Women of the United States. Referred
to the Prophet Joseph’s words concerning
the future of the organization, and said the
prophecies he made at that time seemed
scarcely possible of fulfillment, but had
since come to pass in a wonderful way.
Deemed it our duty to take advantage of
these organizations, and thought it strange
so many should be indifferent in regard to
women’s associations; she knew we made
greater advancement when organized than
we possibly could otherwise. Said we
should not yield to evil or temptation, but
keep humble and prayerful and we would
not be led astray.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, Counselor to
Sister Horne, in her remarks, said she had
been thinking of the number that were pre-
sent at the first organization in the Masonic
Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois. On that occasion
Joseph Smith read the revelation about
Emma Smith in which she is called “the
Elect Lady,” and said “she was called then
but was now elected.” Sister Hyde spoke
of those sisters who were present that morn-
ing, Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Leonora Taylor, (the aunt of
President Cannon;) she also made other
good remarks, and added she had heard
these things from her father, Elder John
Taylor, who was present at the organiza-
tion. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith in speak-
ing said she did not realize the blessing it was
then to be a member of this Society as she
did now; the Prophet organized them in
the name of the Lord, and taught them
many things, and met with them from time
to time. She was present when he said “he

[Column 2]
would not be with us long,” the effect of
his words was very powerful; his voice
trembled and he seemed much affected; she
wished she had written more of his sayings,
then she would have remembered things
better. “Our labors among the poor are not
changed because of the change in the name
or legalizing of our property; we must live
our religion and never apostatize, and must
be punctual in all our duties.”
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
educational benefits of the Society, morally
and spiritually, and what she realized it had
been to the women in these valleys, and
the vast work that had been accomplished
for mankind through the Society. Exhort-
ed the young women to take hold of the
work and help carry the responsibility,
while there were still some of those living
who had labored so diligently in laying the
foundation. Sister Smith and Horne each
spoke again a few words alluding to wo-
man’s mission in this and other dispensa-
tions, and referred to Miriam and to Sarah
who were so greatly honored of the Lord.
	Elder L. John Nuttall, spoke upon the
first organization of the Relief Society by
the Prophet, and of the fulfillment of the
revelation to Emma Smith, and the won-
derful changes that had come to pass among
women all over the world since, because of
the key of knowledge that was turned for
women by the Prophet at that time; said
he had studied the subject considerably and
found that Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth
Cady Stanton had called the first Ccmmittee
of women in 1848—while our organization
dated back to March 17, 1842; he also al-
luded to the saying of Joseph Smith that
“the sisters should provoke the brethren to
good works;” referred to many things
that happened in those days, and said the
changes made now were not the only ones
that had been made in the Relief Society,
nor in the Church as progress was made;
thought the sisters should become familiar
with parliamentary usages; these regula-
tions had been permitted and every one
should understand and observe them. Elder
Nuttall then read the “Rules or By-laws,”
and the Society was organized.
	Mrs. Sarah Jane Cannon, President,
Rebecca A. Sharp and Sarah A. J. Cannon,
Vice Presidents, Sarah Temery, Secretary,
Mary A. West, Treasurer; Trustees Carlie
Y. Cannon, Sarah A. Davey and Martha
T. Cannon. A number of members were
enrolled. The Society is to be known as
the Cannon Ward Relief Society. Presi-
dent Horne gave some further instruction
about the duties of the members, and told
them that beside the record kept here the
angels were silent notes taking, and they
were recorded in heaven. Minutes of the
organization were read and accepted and
meeting was adjourned to complete the or-
ganization by setting apart the officers etc.,
until Tuesday, August 18, at 2 p. m. at the
same place. Dismissed with prayer.


