GAIL HAMILTON

	HAMILTON, Mass., Aug. 17—Miss
Abigail Dodge (Gail Hamilton), the famous
author, died tonight at her beautiful home,
from the effects of a paralytic shock. Too
much work in mailing her last book, “The
Valley of Death,” during the hot weather
broke her strength. 
	Miss Mary Abigail Dodge, writer, bio-
grapher and controversialist, widely known
under the pen name of Gail Hamilton, Was
a native of the town in which she died,
haying been born in the year 1830. At the
age of ten years she went to Dr. Clark’s
private school in Cambridge. She was
graduated from Ipswich academy at the age
of 20. At the age of 21 she went to Hart-
ford as assistant in the Hartford high
school. She refused to take the customary
examination, but was given the position
without doing so. She was also instructor
in physical science in this school for sever-
al years and was subsequently governess in
the family of Dr. Gamaliel Bailey of
Washington D. C., editor of the National
Era, to which paper she became a con-
tributor.
	In 1865-67, she became one of the editors
of Our Young Folks, a magazine for child-
ren, published in Boston. From 1870 un-
til’a little over a year ago she had lived
most of the time with her cousin, Mrs.
James G. Blaine, in Washington. In the
course of this daily contact with the Blaine
family, Miss Dodge was led into a very
close friendship with Mr. Blaine, and at the
death of the latter she became his literary
executor, having posession of all his papers
and documents of value to her as his author-
zed biographer. She was engaged, as
frequently as her health would permit, on
Mr. Blaine’s biography from, the time of his
death until her illness of last year, and it is
thought her untiring devotion to the work
was instrumental in bringing about that
prostration.
	Since the illness that came on so sudden-
ly in the Blaine mansion in Washington,
Miss Dodge has lived very quietly in her
old home at Hamilton, Mass.
	Gail Hamilton was a frequent contributor
to prominent magazines, and her published
works written in a witty and aggressive
style, consist largely of selections from her
contributions. Her books include Country
loving and Country thinking, Gala Days,
New Atmosphere and Stumbling Blocks,
Skirmishes and Sketches, Red Letter Days
in Applethrope and Summer Rest, Wool
Gathering, Woman’s Wrongs, A Counter
Irritant, Battle of Books, Woman’s Worth
and Worthiness, Little Folks’ Life, Child
World, Twelve Miles from Lemmon,
Nursery Noonings, Sermons for the Clergy,
First Love is Best, What Think Ye of
Christ? Our Common School System, Di-
vine Guidance, Memorial to Allen W.
Dodge and Unsuppressible Book,
	in 1887 she wrote a series of letters on
civil service reform for a New York paper,-
Letters on a wide range of public questions
written for the Boston journal were widely
copied throughout the United States. .
	Miss Dodge’s one novel, First Love is
Best, had not the success which attended,
some of her other works.


