FACTS ABOUT MISS DODGE.

	MISS DODGE first came into public notice
by her little book called “Wool-Gathering”
printed about twenty-five years ago. Hav-
ing been induced to invest some money in
a sheep farm in one of the Western States,
and having lost all her investment through
bad management or misrepresentation, or
both, she made an investigation of the wool
business, and wrote one of her characteristic
screeds about it. The book had an
enormous circulation all over the country.
It was the first evidence of her remarkable
power, and from that time forward every-
thing from her pen was eagerly read.
	During the war she won fame by her
championship of the case of a midshipman
in the navy, who had been accused of
mutiny and sedition and hanged at a yard-
arm. The lad was a nephew of a member
of the cabinet, and family influence
was set at work to convince Miss Dodge
that the boy was innocent. She made an
investigation of the charges, and succeeded
in convincing a great many people that the
midshipman had organized a sort of secret
society simply for fun, and not with any
seditious intent.
	Miss Dodge’s strong characteristics left
their impress upon the career of James G.
Blaine. It is one of the traditions of life
in the capital that Mr. Blaine always leaned
upon her judgment When in doubt as to
matters political, literary or diplomatic, it
was with her that he wished to consult be-
fore any one else. Miss Dodge’s skill as a
politician and her judgment of men were
remarkably keen, and with his wife and her
cousin as his advisers, it used to be a com-
mon saying in Washington that Mr. Blaine
had a cabinet which a President might
envy.
	Years ago, before Mr. Blaine’s literary
reputation was as firmly established as it
was before his death, there was a popular
belief that Miss Dodge wrote his speeches
and reviews for him. As late as 1881
when Blaine was in the Garfield cabinet,
he was suspected of having Miss Dodge as
his assistant in the preparation of diplomatic
dispatches.
	She worked very hard on the life of
James G. Blaine, and finished it just before
her illness, in June, 1895. She had in her
possession all the personal papers referring
to Mr. Blaine’s own affairs, and his business
and private correspondence.
	In the course of that sickness Miss Dodge
was unconscious for some time, and she
afterward wrote her experiences, which
were published in the New York Indepen-
dent, under the title, “Passing Through
the Shadow.” In this article Miss Dodge
declared that she died, and she detailed her
experience after death.
	In addition, Miss Dodge never ceased
her efforts to secure the release of Mrs.
Maybrick, the American woman imprisoned
for life in London on accusation of poison-

[Column 2]
ing her husband. She was the first woman
in America to engage in anything like a
systematic effort to accomplish Mrs. May-
brick’s release, and every day and every
week since she busied herself about this
same project.
	Miss Dodge had a keenly intellectual
face. Her hair was pure white and her
eyes were bright and penetrating, and
framed in this white hair her face was re-
markably impressive. She looked like a
bright broad-minded woman. Her life had
been one of constant work and excitment.
	When Gen. Butler was Governor of
Massachusetts he offered Miss Dodge a
position as one of the trustees of the State
workhouse at Bridgewater, a vacancy hav-
ing occurred on the board by reason of the
resignation of Mrs. James T. Fields.
	She was a kind and sympathetic woman,
dearly loved by her neighbors.
	Though not in favor of woman suffrage,
Miss Dodge was impatient of the fallacies
of its opponents, and her little book ridicul-
ing the Rev. John Todd for his contempt-
uous disparagement of womanhood, was
wonderfully keen and effective. In this
book nearly all the stock arguments of the
remonstrants are dissected with merciless
scalpel. In reply to the threadbare ob-
jection that if women voted they must en-
gage in every kind of rough manual labor,
Gail Hamilton caustically demanded why
it should follow, if equal suffrage were
granted, that Lucretia Mott must go to the
North Sea and hunt seals, while the Rev.
John Todd might stay at home and write
sermons? The early advocates of woman’s
rights will never forget her services to the
cause by this and other early writings. In-
deed her entire literary career has been an
object lesson in woman’s capacity as a
political thinker and writer.
	It is a singular anomaly that a woman
who exerted all her life so strong an in-
fluence on American politics should never
have been allowed to vote.—Woman's
Journal.


[Column 1]
