THE APOSTLE PETER WEPT. 

	AND why did he weep? Was it not be-
cause he saw the prophecy of our Savior
fulfilled to the very letter? Yes he had
denied his Lord three times as Jesus said he
would, after telling him that “Satan de-
sires to sift thee as wheat, but I have pray-
ed for thee that thy faith fail not; and when
thou art converted, strengthen thy breth-
ren.”—St. Luke, 22 chapter, 32 verse.
	But Peter did not comprehend these 
words for his reply was: “Lord I am ready
to go with thee, both into prison and to
death.” How could his Lord doubt his

[Column 2]
love for Him? But what was His reply?
He said: “I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall
not crow this day, before that thou shalt
thrice deny that thou knowest me.”—Luke,
22 chapter, 34 verse.
	And in the 35th verse He said unto them:
“When I sent you without purse and scrip
and shoes, lacked ye many things?” They
said: “No nothing.”
	Then said He unto them: “But now he
that hath a purse let him take it, and like-
wise his scrip; and he that hath no sword,
let him sell his garment and buy one.”
	“For I say unto you that which is writ-
ten, must yet be accomplished in me, for
the things concerning me have an end.”
	“And they said unto Him, “Lord we
have two swords.” And He said unto them
“It is enough.” 38th verse the same chap.
	“He then withdrew from them about a
stone’s throw, and kneeled down and pray-
ed, and when He arose from prayer He
found them sleeping.” 
	“He said unto them, “Why sleep ye?
Arise and pray, lest ye enter into tempta-
tion.”
	“While he yet spoke behold a multitude,
and Judas was one of them, and drew near
to Jesus to kiss Him. But Jesus said unto
him, “Judas betrayest thou the Son of
man with a kiss?”
	“Then said one of His disciples “Shall
we smite with the sword?” At this mo-
ment one of them smote the servant of the
high priest, and cut off his right ear. Je-
sus answered and said: “Suffer ye thus far”
and He touched his ear and healed him.”
	Luke 22nd chapter, 50th to 60th verse.
Peter said: “Man I know not what thou
sayest” and while speaking the cock crew;
and the Lord turned and looked upon
Peter, and Peter remembered the words of
Jesus and he went out and wept bitterly.”
	Here we see that the sieve was a profi-
table lesson to the Apostle Peter. Here he
learned the difference between the spirit of
the Gospel and that of the world.
	After the spirit of the world left him,
then our Savior’s words were vividly im-
pressed and rushed to his memory, bringing
greater love for the Lord and Master than
he ever experienced in doubt. Did he hear
the high priest ask, as written in Mark,
14th chapter, and part of verse 61, “Art
thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?”
And Jesus said: “I am, and ye shall see
the Son of man sitting on the right hand of
power, and coming in the clouds of hea-
ven.”
	"Watch ye therefore, and pray always,
that ye may be accounted worthy to escape
all these things that shall come to pass and
stand before the Son of man.”
