ITEMS FROM PAROWAN.

Editor Exponent:
	Yesterday and today we had a royal
feast in the way of meetings. Our Relief
Society Conference convened yesterday, and
reports of a commendable nature were
heard from all the wards but one, and
many praisworthy subjects were treated
upon by the brothers and sisters, besides
the testimonies that were borne to the divin-
ty of the restored Gospel.
	Today all attendants at Primary meeting 
were more than repaid for their trouble,
the children far excelled our best anticipa-
tions; every part was appropriate and well
rendered, and those little ones unwittingly
taught older ones many good lessons.
	A very touching occurrence has over-
shadowed our townspeople with a sadness
that would be almost more than could be
endured were we not willing to acknow-
ledge a Providential care in all things; it is
the demise of one of our Primary counselors
Sister Eliza Gurr Micklesen, a lovely wo-
nan just 36 years old, the mother of eight
children seven of whom survive her, and
the wife of Joseph Mickleson. A more de-
voted couple to each other and their child-
ren is very rarely found. From the time
her beautiful baby was born, her condition
was extremely critical though sister Eliza


realized it not, and was full of hope to the
last. She tarried but three days with her
loved ones, dying Aug. 2.
	Three weeks before her death her seven-
teen year old daughter was shown in a
dream, seven nights in succession, the birth
of her baby brother, the family surround-
ing the death bed in prayer and supplication
for the mother's life, and even the white
casket being covered with wreaths and
bouquets by her, just as it took place on that
solemn occasion.
	Most people are convinced that no earthly
skill, not even the faith and prayers of the
priesthood and loved ones (which never
ceased) could keep her on this earthly
sphere, for as was remarked by one dear
sister today, “she was doubtlessly needed to
work in that great Primary over the river
of Time.”
	The husband and children have nothing
to regret in regard to their course during
her life; so noble, considerate and true
were they all in every respect. What a
solace this must be and how intensified will
be the happiness of the meeting of this ex-
emplary family when they unite to part no
more! Until then, one fond farewell Sis-
ter Eliza. 
