UINTAH P. A.
To the Exponent:
	WISHING to be remembered as one of the
Primaries of Zion we send the minutes of
our last Conference to the Exponent.
	Minutes of the Primary Conference of
Uintah Stake of Zion, held at the Stake
House in Vernal, June 1, 1896, President
Abigail Oaks presiding. Singing “Gladly
meeting kindly greeting” opening prayer
offered by second Counselor Roseltha N.
Pearse; singing “Joseph Smith’s First
Prayer.” Minutes of the previous Confer-
ence were read and accepted. Report for
the past year was read, roll called, showing
representatives of seven local officers and
thirteen ward officers.
	Sentiments of President Brigham Young’s
were given in concert by six primary
associations.
	The program was rendered in a pleasing
manner. An essay was given by Charles
Colton “Sketch of President Brigham
Young’s Life.” Sister Annie K. Bartlett
spoke to the children, giving the reason
Primary Conference was held on this day;
that it was in honor of our noble president
who labored so diligently in the cause of
truth; impressed on their minds the value
of being good and following President
Young’s example of obeying the command-
ments of the Lord.
	Vernal Primary answered in concert some
questions on the life of President Young.
The remainder of the program was rendered
in an interesting way. Meeting was ad-
journed until two o’clock p. m.
	The following brethren were present
during the forenoon: President S. R.
Bennion, 2nd Stake Counselor James
Hacking, Bros. Wm. Shaffer, John Timo-
thy, James Gines, I. M. Jones, C. C.
Bartlett, Thomas Bingham and James
Cook. Singing “Nay, speak no ill.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah Colton.
	Afternoon meeting was called to order by
President Oaks. Singing “Day dawn is
breaking;” opening prayer by Maggie
Ambrosen; singing “We Thank Thee O
God for a Prophet.” General officers were
sustained as they were last Conference, and
local officers were unanimously sustained.
Program rendered. An essay on
the life of President Young was given by
Brother O’Niel’s little girl. President Oaks
spoke encouragingly to the children; she
felt grateful for the interest manifested, and
thanked all for their attendance, and especi-
ally those who had taken part, and helped
to make the Conference a success; asked
God to bless all. Conference adjourned
until next September.
	Jenson ward was appointed to lead the
singing the ensuing Conference. Singing,
“Lead us gently Shepherd.” Benediction
by Counselor Annie Hacking.
			ABIGAIL OAKS, President
			ANNIE HACKING,		}Counselors
