WOMAN KNOW THYSELF.

	IN these days when schools, seminaries,
colleges and universities are being estab- 
lished to propagate the weal and wisdom of
the world, let us not overlook a school for
women wherein they can obtain a know-
ledge of themselves and the great scientific
laws that govern their physical organiza-
tion. This, indeed, should be made a point
of every woman’s education to fully qualify
her for the crowning mission of life, that of
motherhood.
	The old maxim “Man know thyself’’ is
equally applicable to woman. The ideal
education fits and prepares a woman, or
man either, for the practical duties of life.
Therefore, they should make a serious study
of life; its origin from its very incipiency,
that intricate problem which can only be
solved by inspirational genius; indeed she
should go back of this and consider well
the potent influences of heredity; its bear-
ing upon the physical, mental and moral
development of posterity. Of hygiene she
should be a very master. She should study
well the constituent elements of air, food
and drink, clothing and exercise, their
chemical and organic properties and their 
physiological effects upon the human or-
ganization. If the mother recognizes the
normal standard, how readily will her
quick eye detect any deviation therefrom;
when simple remedies promptly applied
will often prevent more protracted and ser-
ious maladies. These subjects should en-
gage the attention of every woman, what-


ever her life work or vocation may be.
And should she possess any desire to be-
come a professional nurse or efficient ac-
coucheur, still greater is the need of the
knowledge. If any one doubts the ever
present and growing demand for skilled
help for suffering women, especially in our
distant towns and villages, that one should
sojourn in those districts beyond the reach
of competent physicians, and listen as the
writer has listened, to the recitals of suf-
fering caused through a lack of skill and
knowledge. Also notice the results in the
failing health, the loss of strength, the
shortened lives of the masses of women;
with the broken homes. the lonely firesides,
the motherless children. Then can we
fully sense how precious are the lives of
wives and mothers, and how all-important to
prolong those lives in health and vigor.
	In many places women are through
sheer necessity forced to practice because in
the kindness of their heart they desire to
benefit their fellow creatures. All unmind-
ful of personal comfort, they answer these
untimely calls. Night or day, rain or shine
ministering to their sister women with all
the inherent gentleness of their sex, and all
too often without the least remuneration
for these wearisome services. That this
mission is one of philanthropy and unselfish
love no one can gainsay, and had she been
prepared for this labor of mercy by
thorough education in the science of Ob-
stetrics, how much greater would be the
good accomplished; then could she meet
every emergency that might arise.
	How much more fitting that woman
should receive these delicate attentions
from one of her own sex, if one can be se-
cured who is qualified for such offices.
	Knowledge and skill are the great pre-
requisites, for occasions not unfrequently
arise when life is in great peril and there is
no time to send miles away for competent
assistance. Thus is emphasized the neces-
sity of skilled help in every town and vil-
lage. Truly the educated nurse and
obstetrician should be co-eval with the race,
and found wherever there is habitation of
man.
	Ellis R. Shipp M. D.


