THE POLITICAL OUTLOOK.

	IN the midst of the excitement over the
political situation designated critical now
prevailing in the United States, it seems
positively necessary that those who believe
in an over-ruling power should exercise
their utmost faith in appealing to the Lord
in behalf of the people in this great nation;
that the government “by the people and of
the people,” of which Americans have
boasted so much and have been so justly
proud, may be preserved intact; that no
conflict between capital and labor shall
reach that stage of bitterness and ill-feeling
that it cannot be amicably adjusted, and the
nation saved from ruin, which according to
some eminent statesmen now seems impend-
ing, unless great and radical monetary
changes are made in the near future.
	The efficacy of prayer cannot be over-
rated; thousands of instances might be cited
to prove this assertion. Throughout the
world, when all other or earthly
means fail, prayer is the only refuge.
Among the Latter-day Saints fasting and
prayer has accomplished what to all human
appearance seemed utterly impossible; testi-
mony upon testimony might be adduced in
our own day to substantiate this fact, but to
the people of the world who believe in the
Holy Scriptures, Bible proof is more con-
vincing still; and how many times the Lord
hearkened and heard when besought in
mighty faith through prayer both by the
ancients, and what we term Former-day
Saints.
	Men may scoff and ridicule this method
of settling difficulties, and warding off dan-
gers, and insist that “the wisdom of the
wise” is sufficient; but in all ages of the
world, God has revealed Himself at differ-
ent times so visibly that the most confirmed
agnostic could not disprove the fact, though
he might deny the interposition of the Al-

[Column 2]
mighty. That faith without works is dead
is true; but when all things fail and one
sees how utterly fruitless is human knowl-
edge and skill, then only God is in the
thoughts, and this of itself should teach the
most doubting unbeliever that His power is
supreme. Then why not appeal to Him
through it all, not waiting until all other
means fail, but acknowledge Him in that
universe over all, and follow the whisper-
ings of Divine spirit even though darkness
obscures all else, and one can but take one
step at a time, not knowing fully, only
trusting in the infinite.
   The whole country is (as it were) in a
tumult of uncertainty, and one who does
not trust in God might easily be persuaded
that a reign of terror is imminent; but He
who can command the fierce winds and
stormy waves can also move upon the hearts
of designing men to soften and subdue
hatred, malice, avarice and unwarranted
ambition for power, and wicked purposes.
   That the Lord intended America for a
land of liberty, for the oppressed of all na-
tions, seems now to be an accepted fact.
That Columbus was inspired to seek it out,
not knowing what the future would unfold,
is equally so. That the Pilgrim fathers and
mothers (although they did leave their
dear old England because of religious per-
secution) were led hither under the guid-
ance and protection of the Almighty, to es-
tablish freedom of conscience, no one
attempts to deny; and that the Constitution
of this Republic was an inspired instrument
is coming to be, and will be eventually,
universally acknowledged. And we go
even farther than this, and assert that the
Latter-day Saints were led to these barren
vales to open up a new and more extended
country where more and more of the op-
pressed and down-trodden from among the
nations might have refuge and rest, with
homes and advantages such as other
countries did not afford; and this is none
the less true because of this people having
been driven into the wilderness, beyond the
pale of civilization, forced to flee, as were
their Puritan forefathers, because of their
objectionable religious belief.
   The prosperity that has attended this
people has been "a marvel and a wonder”
while they have been pursuing such occupa-
tion as tend to thrift, morality and laudable
enterprise, and their flocks and herds have
increased, and their fields and farms have
yielded bountiful harvests. Blessings have
been showered upon them of late, as it were,
until instead of being a reproach as in for-
mer days, they have come to be highly es-
teemed, and in many respects considered an
example to neighboring states. What does
all this portend? Surely not that they
should forsake the quiet industrious habits
and ways of the founders of this state and
the intermountain country adjacent, and
give themselves over to the speculations
and methods of those who are not for the
laws of God, nor human brotherhood.
Hitherto the teaching of the Savior, “Love
thy neighbor as thyself,” has largely pre-
vailed, and His injunction, “Watch and
pray lest ye enter into temptation!” Let
us hope the future will prove further still
in this new state the integrity and honesty
of the people who are now being brought
under conditions of greater responsibility,
and that they will stand for purity and up-
rightness in all that pertains to life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness and the princi-

[Column 3]
ple of good government, whatever comes,
whether prosperity or adversity. There
will assuredly be opportunity to prove the
loyalty of the people in this Western land,
that is a foregone conclusion; honest men
will be needed, for as the wealth of the hills
is developed and the world grows greedy of
gain as it assuredly will, those who keep
their faith and trust in God inviolate will
come into prominence because of those
sterling qualities, that always command re-
spect and admiration in every age of the
world. 
   It is as true now as in days of old that
“The love of money is the root of all evil.”
When a nation or a people admit that the
question of paramount importance is the
money question, and it is put first before
any other consideration, danger is lurking
near and the steadfast faith and sincere
prayers of the humble and the meek are
needed to help keep “the ship of state” from
being dashed to pieces by the storms that
threaten to rise from warring human ele-
ments and passions of man in our own
country, that are sometimes more to be
dreaded than the invasion of foreign power.
   In this crisis of the present time women
as a class all over the land are manifesting
greater interest than ever before, and giving
more intelligent thought to public questions
and needs; the opportunities have come to
them through the spirit of the times, and
the Herculean efforts of some of the wo-
men of our day, energetic workers and
moulders of public sentiment, such as
Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony, with many others fol-
lowing in their lead; this element in politics
should be a conservative one, to help cor-
rect and modify; there may be and un-
doubtedly will be, a few extremists, but
they will be scarce, if only because of the
timidity and lack of confidence among wo-
men of their own understanding of these
vital questions that are now being agitated.
There certainly is great need of conserva-
tism when opinions run riot as they do
now, and spring up spontaneously, like
mushrooms without the least thought or
cultivation; and spread abroad too like
wild-fire.
   The women of Utah who have just been
given equal suffrage, have a hard question
before them to solve, and they should above
all else study carefully and prayerfully
over these matters that are so new to them,
and of such grave importance. Better do
too little than too much, but be sure to
register properly, and be ready to vote
light, if possible, when election time comes.
What the women of Utah are going to do
with the ballot is being much talked of at
home and elsewhere, but it is not a good
thing to be too fearful. The pioneer women
have had many lessons that ought to serve a
good purpose now if they would recall
them. The prophecies of Heber C. Kim-
ball, that the time would come when a barrel
of wheat would be worth a barrel of gold,
will yet come to pass, and in view of that it
it would seem there are other considerations
for women at least, than the money
question; it would be a sad state of affairs
if this people had not something better than
silver or gold. The blessing of the Gospel
and the holy priesthood are always first,
and other things secondary in importance;
the saying of the Savior, ‘Silver and gold
I have not, but such as I have I give unto


you,” should be a lesson for us. Better to
have homes in which to dwell, and some-
thing to eat, than all the gold in these
mountains, or silver either, and lose the
sweet simple spirit of the Gospel. Conten-
tion does not bring a spirit of peace and
love, such as the Saints should enjoy, and
women as well as men need to be on their
guard at all times and keep from evil say-
ing, and seek the Lord for wisdom in polit-
cal as well as in all other matters; the votes
of women and their candid opinions will be
needed, but the faith and prayers and the
spirit of peace which ought to characterize
women in the political atmosphere as much
as in society and in the home will help very
greatly. The writer has great faith in the
women of Utah that they will be wise con-
siderate, and prayerful, and if they are they
will not fail to be right in political matters
and honest with their own consciences.


