	MRS. ZERELDA G. WALLACE, whose
79th birthday, August 6, was celebrated in
Indiana on “franchise day”, is known in
W. C. T. U. ranks as “Deborah”, because
of the wisdom of her counsel during the
many years she devoted herself to woman
suffrage and Temperance work. The follow-
ing message was written by Mrs. Wallace
for the “franchise number” of the Indian-
apolis Organizer.
			CATARACT, JUNE 18, 1896.
To my Sisters of the W. C. T. U., who are
	working for temperance and the freedom
	of women:
	Learning from our dear Miss Reed that
you will observe the 6th of August for the
furtherance of these two great movements,
I feel moved by the Spirit, as our dear
friends the Quakers would say, to send a
word of greeting and encouragement. Al-
though a disabled soldier, my hopes are as
bright and my interest as great as it ever
was, in the ultimate triumph of these great
reforms. We all should rejoice at the ad-
vance and the present outlook for woman’s
progress. Her freedom lies at the base of
all true racial growth and development. If
it be true, as Mr. Gladstone and many other
wise men have said, that America is to be-
come the world’s educator in free institu-
tions, it is time that the ballot should be
put in the hands of all its citizens, without
regard to sex limitations. Let it be the de-
termined effort and persistent purpose of all
women to work to this end.
	Yours for the uplifting of Humanity,
					Z. G. WALLACE.
	The familiar ring of the words recalls the
days between 1880 and ’84, when it was
my privilege to be associated in suffrage
work with “Mother” Wallace, as the
younger women are wont to call her rever-
ently. Richly has she earned the endear-
ing title, for she has literally “mothered”
three sets of children. And, furthermore,
to quote her own plea most frequently
made, has thereby “earned her right to the
ballot.”

[Column 2]
In those days she was keeping house in
the old homestead, looking well to the ways
of her household, and to the upcoming of
four grandchildren left to her care at the
death of a beloved daughter. To avoid
taking her away from home so frequently,
the executive committee of the State Suf-
frage Association met in her old-fashioned
parlors, and occasionally the individual
members thereof made their way thither
with perplexing questions, and came away 
with their burdens lightened.
	One of the most impressive pictures in
my memory is of the times, when business
disposed of, this noble woman, “strong, 
steady and serene”, philosophized concern- 
ing the bearing of woman suffrage upon 
national and human progress. Matronly
in figure, sitting there in her rocking-chair,
industriously knitting on a half grown
stocking, she would have delighted the eye
of an artist seeking a model typical of
feminine personality and occupation; yet
her strong features and massive head, with
its crown of beautiful curling gray hair,
which she wore simply parted in front and
cut short at the neck, always reminded me .
of the portraits of the ablest early American
statesmen. Intensely devoted to her
country, loving humanity as a mother
loveth, unswerving in her belief in an over-
ruling, beneficent Providence, she gathered 
lessons from the history of civilization and
religion, and then looked into the far future
and saw America free and righteous, ex-
alted among the nations.
	What an inspiration she was! Deborah,
the wise, the prophetess!
	Her enthusism and diligence were a
standing example and reproof to us who
grew tired and discouraged during an
“amendment campaign.” Instant in sea-
son, no effort too arduous, no means too
humble. She enlightened the woman who 
served in her kitchen, and through her
reached the brothers and cousins who could
vote. She gave suffrage tracts to her
butcher and to her grocer. She was not
offensive in her proselyting, nor did she
offer tracts with an apology. She took it
for granted that men were interested in
current public questions, and would be glad
to read. She marked her WOMAN’S JOUR-
NALS and mailed them to friends, with direc-
tions to read and to send on and on. As a
public speaker she was much in demand,
and she responded willingly, yet was ever
ready to give way to others. Later on
when the grandchildren had flitted their 
several ways, she gave up her house
and went into the lecture field. She
attended conventions both Woman Suffrage
and W. C. T. U., addressed legislatures
and traveled from state to state, sparing not
herself, until one day the silver cord was
suddenly strained, and she was compelled
to retire from active service.
	No doubt she still finds ways to work for
Woman Suffrage, for she often used to de-
clare with solemn emphasis, "It is a part
of my religion.”—Woman's Journal.


