BY RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
	IN a republican form of government the
vote means the power to control the condi-
tions of living; ought not the mothers of
the land to be interested in this? Have
they not opinions worth the counting as to
the conditions, moral, mental and physical,
under which their children shall grow to
manhood and womanhood, or struggling
against which they shall fill an early grave?
	When in this great nation (great in ex-
tent, in wealth and in number,) we know
there are public schools in which one teacher
is supposed to instruct (?) over one hundred
little children at each session; when in some
of our cities there are thousands of children
unable even to gain admission to our public
schools; when the death rate in certain por-
tions of New York City among its tene-
ments is six times the average of the city
in general—ought not the women of the na-
tion to wish fervently for the power to help
the best men in their struggle to bring
about a better condition of things?
	With all our boasts concerning our great
and grand Republic, we have an oligarchy
of sex under which we enjoy mismanaged
municipalities, states in which the office
holders seem to regard the government
as their own peculiar prey, and a national
government apparently incapable of coping
with the great crying needs of our people.
Women have opinions worth considering on
all these men-made conditions. I am safe
in saying there is not a woman in a hundred
in these days, who has not an opinion upon
the issues which will be voted upon in No-
vember, nor are they chary of expressing
their opinions; I believe they will compare
favorably with the opinions of men as to
common sense and information, yet many
of these same women would think it unwor-
thy to express an opinion by casting a ballot
which would crystallize it into law!
	There has never been a time in all our
history when the American Republic so
much needed the help of all who are inter-
ested in the perpetuity of this nation; wo-
men as a part of the nation ought to feel
themselves bound to give their best thought
and work to its support, yet only in Wyo-
ming, Colorado and Utah will the vote of wo-
men be cast in November to help decide the
policy of our government during the next
four years.—Ex.


THE September “Godey’s” has an inter-
esting article on Anna Ella Carroll proving
the fact already acknowledged by commit-
tees of Congress, that she was the author
of the plan that saved the Union.

	MRS. MARY A. DAVIS of North Sutton,
N. H., is chairman of the school board in
her town. She is also, it is said, the sec-
ond woman appointed notary public in New
Hampshire.


