SATURDAY, NOV. 23
	WE were to spend the morning at
Palatine Hill, there is so much of interest
to be seen—we drive early, changing the
road each time that we may see the different
points; so first to the Tarpeian Rock, under
which Tarpeia was buried and afterward
named for her, and from which the Christ-
ians were precipitated, then to Ghetto (Jews
quarter) and Portico of Octavia, again to
the Forum just to view the ruins of past
greatness and supremacy; also to view the
Hill from this point. The Caesars could
come from the Hill to the Forum under-
ground. The Prof. called our attention to
some iron bars,—looking down these was a
small stream of water which runs into the
aqueducts, “A lake or morass suddenly
appeared in the Forum; the Oracle said it
would never close until Rome threw into it
its most precious possessions; thereupon M.
Curtius a Roman youth, devoted himself to
the infernal gods for the safety of his
country. Arming himself he mounted his
horse and they plunged into the abyss—
which instantly closed over him.” 362 B.
C. This marks the spot where they leapt
in. We now left the carriages to ascend
the Hill, passing the house where St. Paul
lived, then to the Wolf’s Cave, under the

[Column 2]
Palace, and walled over, leaving it as it was
when, according to tradition, Romulus the
founder of Rome, the son of Mars and Ilia,
and twin brother of Remus; the twins were
thrown into the Tiber by their mother and
were cast ashore at this point, where they
were suckled by a she-wolf till they were
rescued by Faustulus, a shepherd who
brought them up. Disputes arising between
them as to who should rule Rome, Romulus
caused Remus to be slain. Plutarch says
they were the sons of Rhea Sylvia, daughter
of Numitor King of Alba. She was among
the Vestals, but being delivered of these
two children, declared the god Mars was
their father. Amulius who had usurped
the throne of Numitor, his brother,
caused the children to be thrown into the
Tiber, where they were found by Faustulus.
Romulus put Remus to death and after-
ward founded Rome.
	Ascending the Hill we had splendid
views of the city, Islands of Tiber and the
river; it is deep but only about 200 ft. wide,
rises in the Appennines and falls into the
Mediterranean about fifteen miles below
Rome. I was disappointed in the river.
Lord Macauley says in ‘‘Lays of Ancient
Rome,”
	“Never I ween did swimmer,
		in such an evil case,
	Struggle through such a raging flood,
		Safe to the landing place;
	But his limbs were borne up bravely,
		By the brave heart within,
	And our good father Tiber
		Bore bravely up his chin.”
	“Cocles, a celebrated Roman, though
wounded and impeded by his arms and
armour, leapt into the Tiber and swam
safely across.” Don’t know what there is
about that to make me imagine the Tiber a
mile wide; perhaps it was larger then; many
of our streams that were once torrents are
now only bubbling brooks. The Palaces
of the Caesars covered this hill, and in the
time of Nero—portions of the neighboring
ones. Enough of the ruins remain to tell
us of their splendor; brick encased in mar-
ble all differing one from another, built at
different epochs and separated by streets
and squares. The house of Augustus is
most ancient, situated on the side of the
Circus Maximus northeast angle of the hill;
the house of Tiberius on the Valabruse; the
house of Caligula at the northeast angle
upon the Forum; the house of the infam-
ous Nero, the Caesar celebrated for his
cruelty and vice. It is said he was in the
habit of visiting the meanest taverns and
scenes of depravity during the night.
Among his ugly deeds was a resolve to burn
Rome and build a greater. In A.D. 64,
he caused the city to be set on fire in differ-
ent places, the conflagration lasting nine
days during which time he placed himself
on the top of a tower and sang of the de-
struction of Troy, accompanying himself
on a lyre; of the fourteen city wards three
were entirely, and seven nearly destroyed,
many costly and old monuments and many
masterpieces of Greek art were destroyed.
Nero’s golden house on the S. side of
the Esquiline Hill, soon after his death fell
into decay; on the site of the artificial lake
between the gardens, Vespasian began to
build the Coliseum; part of this golden
palace was utilized by Titus as a foundation
for his baths; they point out the towers
where Nero sat, but doubtful,as there were
several in that vicinity at the time.


[Column 1]
	We stood where Paul appealed as a Ro-
man citizen to Caesar; there are fragments
of the confessional and judgment seat at
which these two men met face to face as
prisoner and judge. “And he found no
fault in him.” It was not Nero who con-
demned him to death; we know this spot to
be authentic, as there was no other place
where he received the people.
	We next saw the house of Germanicus
on Palatine Hill in perfect preservation,
the interior decorations were beautiful, the
pictures which decorated the walls are con-
sidered as the best among those found at
Rome. As we turned away to examine
the gardens, which were beautiful, I asked
the guard whose duty it is to see that tour-
sts take nothing, if I might have an ivy
leaf that clung to the wall. He smiled and
replied yes, giving me also a rose.
	Near the temple of Vesta was a beautiful
statue—in fragments—of one of the Vestal
virgins; it was magnificently sculptured.
Vesta a goddess, daughter of Rhea and
Saturn; the Palladium, a celebrated statue
of Pallas was supposed to be preserved
within the sanctuary where fire was contin-
ually burning. The Vestal virgins, (priest-
esses consecrated to the service of Vesta,)
were required to be of a good family and
free from blemish and deformity. One of
their duties was to see the sacred fire was
not extinguished; they were sworn to vows
of chastity and if broken were buried alive.
They were ten years in preparation, ten in
service, ten in retirement, taking thirty
years of their life. ’Tis said but seven of
their number ever broke their vow. We
had a very interesting lecture while view-
ing the extensive remains of the Stradium.
All the Emperors built booths, each en-
deavored to eclipse the other in structure
and magnificence. It is said when Diocle-
tian built his on Viminal Hill he employed
40,000 soldiers, then destroyed all the
workmen. Baths were deemed a necessity,
but Alexander Servius first permitted the
people to use them at night.
	Augustus bought and placed in the tem-
ple of Caesar that beautiful painting by
Appellas, “Venus rising from the sea.”
We now visited the Scala Santa, a flight
of 28 marble steps reputed to be from the
house of Pilate. Charlemagne, who was
crowned Emperor of Rome and assumed
the title of Caesar and Augustus on Christmas
Day, 800, in the old Cathedral of St. Peter,
was the first man of unmixed blood who
became Emperor of Rome. Luther’s visit
marks the begining of the Reformation,
“To visit the fountain head of Christian
faith, seeking help and guidance. Roderigo
was Pope; all know the crimes wrought in
his time under the shadow of St. Peter.”
People ascend these stairs on their knees
saying a prayer on each step, thereby gain-
ing indulgence of a thousand years. Luth-
er ascended half way up when he suddenly
stood erect, and lifting his face heavenward
turned and walked slowly down. He said
as he toiled up the stairs it seemed a voice
as if from heaven whispered to him the old
well known words which had been his
battle cry in so many victorious conflicts.
“The just shall live by faith.”
	Sunday 24. Raining; so with a cheer-
ful wood fire in my room remain in, letter
writing.
	Monday, Nov. 25. Breakfast early, off
for Tivoli, a fashionable resort in the time
of Horace, to explore the temples, grottoes,
villas and ruins of the locality. Along the

[Column 2]
Campagna plain we saw the beautiful effect
of light on the broad rolling landscape; we
saw the peasants in their bright colored
costumes, and the old watering place or
health resort sulphur springs, and frag-
ments of aqueducts. The Campagna is
bounded on North by the Cinimian For-
est, on the West by the sea, East by the
Appennines Chain of the Sabine Mountains
Labuie, once covered with feudal castles
and cities, but were all buried under the
eruption of Vesuvius; passed through the
Alban Mountains; the olive trees were old
and full of fruit, the air and woods full of
delicate perfume; crossed the Arno and
soon reached the old town, the streets were
just wide enough for us to pass; you could
look into the houses, and the smells, oh
my! The girls were pretty with dark com-
plexions and bright eyes, and black tresses
We saw several dwarfs just my ideal from
goblin stories, very tiny with monstrous
head and feet. We crossed the bridge and
went to a chalet on the hill, near the cas-
cades; our lunch was prepared in the thea-
tre which had windows opening on the
veranda, from which superb views of the
town and a rectangular Ionic temple were
to be seen; the gardens were most beauti-
ful. We walked to the cascades, they are
formed by the Arno as it falls into the
Tiber. The walks were through the forest
and all terraced; we climbed to the new
waterfall 330 ft. in height; this fall is arti-
fical being formed by diverting parts of the
water of Arno into a new channel by
means of two long tunnels through the
limestone rock. This was done to prevent
the inundations like that of 1826, which
destroyed a part of the village. We walked
down to the Sibyls Cave, looking up, the
three cascades were to be seen; they are in-
deed beautiful. Returning to chalet we
had an excellent dinner, the host himself
attending to us with all the grace of a
Beau Brummel; we promised to send our
friends there.
							KIM.


