“SEPTEMBER SEVENTH.”
		1896.

	IT is Labor Day. The stores and shops
are closed and business is principally sus-
pended. Where are those ladies going,
those small groups, now two or three to-
gether, and later on one and then another
alone?
	Don’t you know whose birthday this is?
Don’t you remember that blessed “friend of
mankind,” Aunt Prescendia Kimball?
This is the 86th anniversary of her birth.
Sister Elizabeth Stevenson has opened her
doors to a few of the special friends of
Aunt Prescendia, to celebrate the memory
of that dear woman.
	And yet, not a tithe of those who were her
special friends can here be entertained; her
favorites and those with whom she was a
favorite, were as numerous as those who
ever heard her voice or felt her hand in
blessing; and they are shall we say without
number?
	Those first comers are the two Nebeker
sisters. Next comes Sister Zina, followed
at intervals by B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
E. H. Paul, M. E. Kimball, M. C. Sharp,
A. Airmit, P. Y. Beatie, M. R. Alford, J.
C. Howe, M. A. Hyde, J. P. Fowler, M.
J. Howard, A. Tate, E. Jackson, S. E.
Young, L. L. G. Richards, S. M. Kimball,
E. S. Wilcox, H. Saunders and B. How-
arth.
	Very pleasant conversation first; then
dinner, served by the hostess, in a most
agreeable manner; after which a meeting
was held, presided over by President M. I.
Horne.
	Singing, “We thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” All kneel in prayer led by Sis-
ter Richards. Singing, “O, my Father,”
etc. And now, every one present has a
testimony to offer concerning the love, the
power of blessing, and the extraordinary
faith which was possessed and exercised by
the favored daughter of God in whose hon-
or they had met. Each speak in turn; all
hearts are full to overflowing with gratitude
that they have known and felt the influence
of the boundless sympathy, and the affec-
tionate, tender yet strong and courageous
character possessed by Sister Prescendia
Kimball.
	The gifts of the Gospel are exercised
in touching and pathetic language by Sis-


ters M. A. Hyde, Z. D. Young, M. P.
Howe and E. H. Paul.
	A sharp thunder shower comes up during
the progress of the meeting, but clears off
in time for dismissal at half past five.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” is sung, Presi-
dent M. I. Horne offers benediction, and all
go home rejoicing in the bonds of love.
							LULA.


