[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Beauty | Author: Cloward]
[Beauty Arlene D. Cloward]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  337 
area,  this  is  the  first  time  for  a  large  group  of  sisters  to  get  together  and  sing.  Two 
lo\ely  numbers  were  presented.  The  sisters  whose  names  are  not  hsted  make  up  the 
presidencies  and  teachers  of  twenty-one  Rehef  Societies  in  our  stake.  Pearl  Thames 
organized  the  Singing  Mothers,  but  because  of  distance,  the  various  ward  groups  prac- 
ticed in  their  own  wards,  and  all  got  together  for  the  March  i960  conference  for  the 
first  time." 
Beulah  Burgon  Larson  is  the  recently  appointed  president  of  New  Orleans  Stake 
Relief  Society. 
vi/ofnan  s   (choice 
Luh  Walker 
TTie  air  was  warm,  a  touch  of  breeze 
Astir  in  new-leafed  maple  trees  — 
A  made-to-order  day  for  cleaning. 
She  pictured  floors  and  windows  gleaming. 
Then  neighbors  tapped  her  windowpane  — ■ 
"The  weather's  fine,  no  hint  of  rain. 
Let's  picnic  in  the  woods.     We've  room"; 
She  declined.  Gay  voices  echoed  fun 
Wliile  she  hung  woolens  out  to  sun. 
All  done,  at  e\ening,  she  relaxed. 
Her  windows  shone,  floors  freshly  waxed, 
A  spotless  house,  but  was  it  worth 
The  price,  with  spring  upon  the  earth? 
ioeauty 
Arlene  D.  Cloward 
npHIS  last  summer  I  learned  the  true  definition  of  the  word  beaut}'.  My  little  family 
■*■  and  I  started  along  the  skyline  dri\e  with  our  car  packed  to  o\erflowing  with 
camping  gear,  and  excited  anticipation.  We  followed  a  rutted,  dusty  road  which  wound 
steadily  up  among  trees  dipping  leafy  boughs  in  a  lacy  arch  above  us.  Occasionally, 
the  foliage  parted  to  reveal  a  sparkling  stream  trickling  merrily  along,  dashing  sun- 
splashed  ripples  against  the  protruding  rocks.  Pine  trees  rose  lofty  and  solemn  amid 
lush  meadows  of  softlv  \\hispering  grass.  Brilliant  blue  \\'ild  flowers  raised  proud  blos- 
soms to  mirror  the  sky,  and  small,  golden-faced  buds  unfolded  beneath  the  sun's  caress. 
A  buck,  regal  and  proud,  moved  smoothly  among  the  shimmering  aspens,  turning 
his  velvety,  widespread  antlers  slowlv  in  our  direction.  He  eyed  us  carefully,  and  then, 
with  a  profound  grace,  he  moved  his  powerful  body  and  sprang  effortlessly  up  the  hill- 
side and  disappeared. 
The  road  stopped  its  steep  climbing  and  leveled  out.  We  were  on  the  \ery 
skyline,  gazing  out  over  breathtaking  stretches  of  \alleys  and  mountains  flung  out  to 
the  horizon  in  a  haze  of  color. 
I  glanced  at  my  two  excited  little  boys,  their  blue  eyes  wide  with  joy.  And  as  I 
had  seen  beauty  in  the  proud  mantle  of  the  trees,  the  ripple  of  the  stream,  the  glory 
of  the  blossoms,  and  the  majesty  of  the  buck,  I  now  saw  beauty  in  the  faces  of  two 
little  boys.