[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: To Be a]
Be a Grandmother Harriet De Spain (2 is a joy and a wonder to be a grandmother. I have a little grandson who, upon seeing me come down the street toward him at play, lifts his head like a proud alerted deer, then he runs toward me shouting, ""Grandma! Grandma! Grandma!'' I have need to brace myself against the onslaught of his eager body. His embrace is not prolonged, for he turns and runs as fast as his little short legs allow into the house, leaving all doors open behind him as he shouts, "Grandma is here! Grandma is here!'' Surely no fanfare of trumpets or ritual of queens is as sweet and heart stirring as this heralding of my approach! My startled daughter appears. Her anxious and critical expression is reminiscent of my own young motherhood, when my emotions were so dominated by my _ sense of responsibility that I could only hear the noise and see the not-too-clean face, instead of the love, innocence, and devotion behind it. Surely Grandmother has the advantage of the wisdom she _ has gained through the years of living. I am deeply grateful for life. My grandson allows me just a few minutes of his time, then the important business of play calls him outside. But before he goes he bestows a possessive and proud pat upon my knee, and he says, "Don't you go away." My heart is filled with love and a little sadness, too, for I know how fleeting are these precious moments. But, however short, he has made me an important person in his life. He has made me the recipient of more love and devotion than my soul can contain. It fills me with the knowledge of God's love and goodness towards me. I resolve prayerfully to be the grandmother that my grandson thinks I am. Take a tip from Zippy the Zions Savings Bug Your savings earn more at Z. S.& L. That's nght it's smart arithmetic, and plain good sense to Save your money at ZIONS SAVINGS & LOAN because it can earn big plus for possible current bonus of total of rate of up to up to 4% +1%=9% Choose from either of these two bonus plans ie Systematic Savings 2. Fully Paid Savings Certificate YOUR SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $10,000 BY A FEDERAL AGENCY Start earning up to 5% today at Utah's first savings and loan ass'n. ZIONS SAVINGS and Loan Association 33 E. First South, Salt Lake City 4901 S. State Street, Murray, Utah Page 339 TOURS FOR 1961 APRIL—Hawaii MAY—Mexico JUNE—Hawaii, Mexico, and Northwest, and Alaska JULY—Hawaii, Pageant and Historical Eastern Tour AUGUST—Southern California (San Francisco, Reno, Los Angeles) AUGUST—Europe OCTOBER — Aloha Week (Hawaii) DECEMBER—Rose Parade Tour JANUARY—Around the World Cruise Margaret Lund Travel Service 72 East 4th South Moxum Hotel Lobby Box 2065 Salt Lake City 11, Utah DA 2-5559 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Amazing NEW! MAGNIFYING GLASS M ADJUSTABLE A SPECIAL GIFT for MOTHER'S DAY Helps You See Better Leaves Hands Free To Work Unfolds so that it can be hung from the neck and be supported away from the body leaving both hands free to do dozens of tedious 'obs. Small objects become larger. Folds up small enough to carry in a ladies' purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. LOOK — Many Uses It is especially good for: 1. Reading. 2. Needlepoint. 3. Sewing. Iy Removing slivers. 6. Crocheting. Threading needle. Mother's Day Special $5.00 Also lovely book of poems MOODS AND MEMORIES by Fannie G. Brunt $2.00 prepaid DESERET SUPPLY Box FG 145 — Shipping Address 464 N. 8 W. Salt Lake City 16, Utah Page 340 Hearts Rowena Jensen Bills Hearts never know the poetry in a sea of rest, The rapture of a sunset from the mountain's crest; Peaceful valley dawnbreaks reflecting crimson snow, Magnificence of corn stalks in the sun's bright glow; Overflowing happiness in a young child's laugh, Thrill of awaited footsteps on the garden path; The luxury encircled in a homely room, Mysteries of lilac-time and rosebuds first in bloom; Nostalgia from a perfume or a white lace glove, Unless they have walked intimately with beauty and with love. Sin Seas Ethel Jacobson Above high-tide line swells Another undulant sea, Patterned in stars and bells— This wildflower tapestry: Poppies' gold, newly minted; Sea pinks, seashell-tinted; Strawberry blossoms, white and jadey Seaside-daisies, silken rayed; Paintbrushes' crimson plumes; Monkey flowers' creamy blooms; Mauve verbena; and the beach Morning glories' frosty peach. Above the gleaming strand This flood of many hues Foams over silver sand To meet the ocean's blues. GET FULL HOUSEPOWER 7" HOUSEPQOWER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. The Booklet THOSE FOOLISH MORMONS by Rulon Killian Clearly and vividly explains why those Latter-day Saints who do not fully exemplify the gospel principles in their lives are losing their priceless heritage. It is brim full of unique evidence showing that Joseph Smith was visited and _instructed by angels. At Deseret Book Co. — 50c At Store or Postpaid in Utah 5lc 44 E.

So. Temple Salt Lake City, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.