[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Love Is | Author: Harmer]
[Love Is Enough — Chapter 5 Mabel Harmer]

Sherrie looked up at Carol with affection. "T love you, too, darling." Carol curled a tendril of her blonde hair around her finger into a ringlet. "Tell me again, Mommie, how you and Daddy met." "Honey, you've heard it a dozen times." "But it's my favorite story. Please tell it again." "Well, I was a new girl in town, and my girl friend with whom I shared an apartment while I was working as a secretary, asked me to go to a special interest party with her. I went, and who do you think was at the party?" Carol smiled her loveliest at little Sherrie and winked a little as she waited for her answer. "My Daddy." "You are so right." "And then what happened?" Sherrie giggled. "Well, it's a long story. There were introductions, and dances, and punch and cookies and getting acquainted talk. Then followed church on Sundays, and dates to the movies and the concerts and more dances. Then one day a picnic with Page 299 300 you. And at the picnic your Daddy said: 'Carol, will you marry me, and be little Sherrie's Mommie. We both love you.' And so I did, and here Iam.'"' Carol laughed. "You are a good Mommie." Sherrie hugged her with both little arms. 'Then, as if remembering they were sitting at the window, Sherrie looked out and shouted: "Here's Daddy!" She ran to swing the door open for him. AROL followed her to the door to greet Stan. This welcoming home was a lovely part of each day for all three of them. After kissing tiny Sherrie and Carol, Stan handed her a green package from the florist. "'A little Valentine gift, special for my darling wife." "Stan, the box of chocolates was enough, really it was." "Not nearly enough." Carol turned back the oiled papers, and there they lay a dozen lovely red roses. "Oh, Stan, they're lovely, just perfectly lovely." Carol held them close to her heart, and inhaled their fragrance. "Roses are my favorite flower." Together, they placed the roses in a tall vase and put it on a table in the living room to enjoy, then sat down to visit. "Daddy, you were a little late coming home. Mommie and I waited and waited. Where were you so long?" Sherrie asked, climbing on his knees. "Sherrie, dear, Daddy stopped by to put a dozen roses on Mother's gtave." Carol felt something freeze inside her. Abruptly the sunshine of the day disappeared. She leaned back RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1961 against the sofa pillows. She must control herself. Of course it was good that Sherrie knew about her real mother. She and Sherrie talked about it freely between themselves, but now she was dead, did she have to come in on flowers equal with Carol's on every important occasion? Well, she had so far, that was for sure. Would she forever? Carol analyzed her feelings. It was as if she were sparring with a ghost, for Stan's love. The love he had for Marie should be dead. Dead as she was dead. Carol fought for control of her emotions. Stan held Sherrie, and together they laughed gayly. "Tl go put the supper on the table," Carol said. As she busied herself in the kitchen, Carol congratulated herself on being a good actor. Neither Stan nor little Sherrie had even noticed that her heart was breaking. She whispered a tiny inward prayer: "Dear Father, I have a perfect husband. Help me to be big enough to live with his memories." HERRIE tore off the February, March, and April calendars. Then suddenly it was May. Lady Spring was reigning in all her glory. Warm golden sunlight poured over their valley like butter and honey. But the Vickers house on Walnut Street was rather quiet. Stan Vickers was out of town on business, and wouldn't be back until the latter part of the month. It had been their plan that Carol and Sherrie accompany him on the trip, but the day before they were to leave Sherrie became ill. Stan suggested they get Mrs. Kelly, who had tended Sherrie while a baby, but LOVINGLY REMEMBERED Carol said it was her place to be with her, and she wouldn't feel night leaving her behind. Stan sighed with relief. "Well, I must admit Ill feel a lot better knowing you are with Sherrie." He kissed her goodby and took his leave. With patient care, Sherrie soon was well again, and her dear, sweet self. Then it was Sunday morning May fourteen, and the doorbell rang. Carol hurried to answer it. "Oh," she exclaimed, as a special delivery boy handed her a big box. "It was just flown in on the plane, Mam. It looks as if it could be flowers." "Oh." Carol said it the way you do when something has been perfect and wonderful. "Thank you, thank you very much." Carol closed the door. "What is it, Mommie?" Sherrie was bubbling with excitement. "It's a dear little arrangement of pink roses, and a card which reads: "The mother who is reading this loving note today is just about the sweetest and best in every way. She's very dear and thoughtful, so understanding, too, and to her happy family she's a blessing all year through.' " "Why, Mommie, you're crying. Daddy wouldn't want you to cry. He sends flowers to make you happy, not to make you cry." "It's just that I miss our Daddy, Sherrie. Hurry, darling, and put your Sunday dress on. We have an errand to do before Sunday School." HERRIE marked the days off on the May calendar. Then suddenly the day she had waited for arrived. Daddy was coming home! She and 301 Carol dressed sort of special and Carol backed the car out of the garage, and together they drove to the station. Seeing a train pull in at the station had always been a thrill to Carol. She remembered when she was a little girl, and the big black coalfueled engines puffed and puffed. She had felt especially sad one day because the nice engineer invited her to go home with him on the big train, and her mother wouldn't let her go. Today, when the big diesel train made its way to the station, and stopped, her heart was _ simply throbbing with excitement. And then there he was stepping off the train, and looking both ways expectantly. "Here we are, Daddy!" Sherrie called and waved her hanky. Stan was tall and handsome. His brown tweed jacket and flannel slacks hung neatly. He has such good shoulders, Carol thought. He took off his hat when he saw them, and his thick brown hair was touched softly with gray at the temples. He was hers, and she loved him very, very much. She took Sherrie's hand and they ran to meet him. It was while they were riding home that Sherrie started relating the events of interest that had transpired in his absence. She ended by saying: "And, Daddy, Mommie put pink roses on Mother's grave on Mother's Day." The look of tenderness Stan gave Carol was priceless. She knew that should she die, she would always be lovingly remembered. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1901 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIONsS'" THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT: The agents of the Exponent and those interested in the work of the women of the Church, and in higher education and elevation of women along all the many lines that tend to the uplifting of the human race, should feel it a privilege to help maintain a paper that has done and is doing what the Exponent has for the benefit of womankind.... It has entered into every work and enterprise undertaken by women, not only here at home, the centre of women's organizations of the Church, but it has reached out all over the civilized world, and sought to bring before its readers the best work being done by women the world over — Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY IN MARICOPA STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference was held in the Stake Tabernacle... President Mabel A. Hakes presiding. All the stake officers were present, except our treasurer who has had the misfortune to fall and break her arm. Five out of six wards were well represented with both officers and members. A good spirit prevailed, all seemed ready and willing to lend a helping hand with their means to help the poor and needy, also to assist those placed over them in rolling on this great work. Though last year was very dry considerable grain has been stored away for time of need by being sealed airtight. The insects are very bad in this hot climate. There are better prospects this year, we all want to do much more in saving grain, also beans, many fruits of all kinds. — Annie E. Fuller, Sec. IN THE WILDERNESS OF MEXICO Through the grass so tall and slender, reptiles drag their length along, In their nests the birdlings tender long have hushed their vesper song. Craggy rocks the precious metals, like unwilling prisoners hold — Flowers, too, have closed their petals, holding dewdrops in their fold, Like sentinels, the prickly cactus, rear their towering forms on high. — Ellis R. Shipp BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION: The seventy-ninth birthday anniversary of our revered and honored Mother in Israel, Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, was celebrated at the handsome residence of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, in this city, May 3, 1901. The beautiful parlors and library were artistically decorated with flowers, flags and historic pictures, the parlors and library in sweet peas, the dining room in red and white roses and carnations. The music was by some of the best talent in the city, Prof. Joseph Anderson and Prof. A. C. Lund.... Sister Smith was dressed in white and looked the veritable "Queen of hearts and homes," lovable and motherly and altogether charming. Those who received with her were Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mr. And Mrs. George H. Horne, Mrs. B. S. Merrill and Mrs. D. R. Allen....