[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 23 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
(near  Phoenix,  Arizona)  in  1955,  when 
we  were  living  in  Phoenix.  It  is  wonder- 
ful to  see  it  on  the  Magazine  in  color. 
— Mrs.  Elsie  Lee  Hickey 
Cookeville,  Tennessee 
I  think  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is 
simply  splendid.  I  have  taken  it  since 
1926.  I  sent  a  copy  to  a  cousin  of  mine 
in  England  (nonmember)  and  she  wrote 
thanking  me  for  the  nice  httle  book. 
— Helen  McQuarrie 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
I  would  like  to  tell  you  how  much  I 
appreciate  our  wonderful  Magazine.  It 
helps  me  spiritually  and  materially  in  my 
home.  I  just  can't  be  without  it.  For 
me  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  a  treas- 
ure of  knowledge. 
— Mrs.  Clemencia  P.  Golithon 
Redondo   Beach,   California 
I  enjoy  our  Magazine  very  well.  I  have 
twenty-five   bound    volumes    and    treasure 
them.      I    also    enjoy   the    Birthday    Con- 
gratulations to  our  dear  sisters. 
— Annie  E.  Nielsen 
Spanish  Fork,  Utah 
I  enjoy  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
very  much.  Two  of  the  recent  stories 
have  been  particularly  moving:  "Grafted" 
(First  Prize  Story,  by  Hope  M.  Williams, 
in  the  January  issue);  and  "The  Happety 
Road"  (Second  Prize  Story,  by  Hazel  K. 
Todd,  in  the  February  issue ) .  I  am  glad 
the  articles  on  Temple  Square  (by  Preston 
Nibley,  October  and  November  i960, 
and  January,  February,  and  March  1961) 
have  been  included  in  the  Magazine.  My 
children  enjoy  these  bits  of  history  as 
much  as  I. 
— Mrs.  Merrill  Holyoak 
American  Falls,  Idaho 
I  can't  begin  to  tell  you  how  much  I 
appreciate  our  wonderful  Magazine,  and 
what  it  means  to  me.  Inside  the  beauti- 
ful covers  lie  a  college  education,  the  won- 
derful lessons,  stories,  recipes,  and  poems. 
The  contents  of  the  Magazine  are  always 
outstanding.  I  have  enjoyed  twelve  years 
on  the  stake  board,  in  two  different  stakes, 
as  Magazine  representative  and  have  loved 
every  minute  of  it.  I  have  also  served  as 
a  ward  president  in  the  same  two  stakes. 
Truly,  I  have  learned  the  value  of  the 
Magazine. — Mrs.  Alligee  L.  Anderson 
Nephi,  Utah 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  is  an  in- 
spiration to  all  of  us  here  in  Waco,  Texas, 
We  especially  enjoy  the  ideas  for  work 
meeting.  Our  homebound  members  sure- 
ly enjoy  the  Magazine.  We  hope  you  will 
never  discontinue  the  handwork  features 
in  our  favorite  Magazine. 
— Mrs.  Florence  Hoppie 
Waco,  Texas 
Just  a  note  of  thanks  for  the  beautiful 
editorial  "And  Tell  of  Time"  in  the  Janu- 
ary Magazine  (by  Vesta  P.  Crawford). 
Truly,  I  feel  that  it  was  penned  par- 
ticularly for  me.  I  have  always  loved  that 
passage  from  Ecclesiastes  around  which  the 
message  was  built. 
— Evelyn  Anderson  Lee 
Linthicum  Heights,  Maryland 
Page  282