[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Eliza | Author: Contest]
[Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest]
Nations.  All  acknowledge  Eliza- 
beth as  the  head  of  the  Common- 
wealth, but  have  no  enforced  ties, 
as  in  the  colonial  days;  only  ties 
of  friendship  and  also  of  preferen- 
tial trade  and  fiscal  benefits.  The 
change  of  these  states  from  colonial 
to  commonwealth  status  is  a  sur- 
prising facet  of  modern  history. 
The  Queen  was  received  with  great 
acclaim  and  friendliness,  which  she 
reciprocated. 
CALLY  BOWLES,  daughter  of 
Under  Secretary  of  State  Ches- 
ter Bowles,  and  Nancy  Gore,  daugh- 
ter of  Senator  Albert  Gore  of 
Tennessee,  are  two  of  the  earliest 
volunteers  of  the  Peace  Corps,  set 
up  in  March  by  President  Kennedy 
on  a  ''temporary  pilot  basis,"  to 
serve  abroad  helping  the  inhabitants 
of  underdeveloped  nations.  With 
no  salaries  and  necessary  main- 
tenance allowances  only,  women 
will  teach  in  primary  and  secondary 
schools,  stressing  instruction  in  the 
English  language;  and  they  will  also 
assist  with  public  health  and  sanita- 
tion projects,  child  care,  cooking  and 
preparing  foods,  weaving,  and  the 
like. 
lyfRS.    MARIE    McGUIRE,    of 
San  Antonio,  Texas,  has  been 
named  by  President  Kennedy 
United  States  Public  Housing  Com- 
missioner. She  will  be  in  charge  of 
the  Federal  low-rent  subsidized 
housing  program  in  operation  in 
thousands  of  cities  and  towns 
throughout  the  United  States. 
T\R.  CHARLOTTE   ELMOTT, 
of  Santa  Barbara,  California, 
was  named  the  Los  Angeles  Times 
i960  Woman  of  the  Year  in  Educa- 
tion. Dr.  Elmott,  a  clinical  psy- 
chologist and  former  teacher, 
stepped  down  from  her  position 
as  assistant  superintendent  of  Santa 
Barbara  Schools,  division  of  In- 
structional Services,  to  become  direc- 
tor of  the  Special  Guidance  Project. 
The  program  gives  help  —  early  — 
to  the  troublesome  and  the  troubled 
child,  thus  undoubtedly  saving 
many  children  from  later  experience 
with  the  juvenile  courts. 
N  banking,  a  field  formerly  domi- 
nated by  men,  360,000  women 
are  now  employed  as  against  180,000 
men,  according  to  the  National  As- 
sociation of  Bank  Women. 
Page  3C3 
I

EDITOWAL 
VOL  48 
MAY  1961 
NO.  5 
cJrain    Lip  a   L^hdd   Jrts  an  individual 
/^NE  of  the  greatest  responsibili- 
ties of  a  mother  is  to  train  and 
equip  her  children  for  life.  As  she 
watches  them  developing  in  their 
tender  years,  she  is  often  impressed 
with  the  differences  in  their  disposi- 
tions, attitudes,  and  abilities.  The 
words  of  Holy  Writ  declare  ''Train 
up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go: 
and  when  he  is  old,  he  will  not  de- 
part from  it"  (Proverbs  22:6). 
A  mother  comes  to  understand 
that  while  the  training  she  gives 
her  children  is  turned  toward  the 
same  goal,  it  requires  different  train- 
ing for  each  individual  child  to  at- 
tain the  goal.  Even  as  babies  a 
mother  notes  that  one  has  a  sunny 
disposition  while  another  is  silent 
and  serious.  As  small  children  she 
finds  that  one  child  will  assert  him- 
self and  grab  away  toys,  while 
another  will  retreat  within  himself 
and  make  small  effort  to  maintain 
his  rights.  Thus  she  must  train  her 
children  differently  to  have  them 
grow  to  adulthood  living  righteously 
and  bulwarked  with  the  inner 
strength  and  independence  which 
will  cause  them  to  continue  to  do 
right  after  they  have  left  behind  the 
family  environment. 
A  mother  therefore  studies  the 
strengths  and  weaknesses  of  each 
child  individually  and  seeks  to  spend 
a  little  time  alone  with  each  child, 
as  circumstances  permit.  She  accepts 
him  as  he  is  and  prayerfully  trains 
him  at  his  point  of  greatest  need. 
Page  304 
Sometimes  the  most  indifferent  ap- 
pearing child  who  responds  rather 
rudely  to  overtures  on  his  mother's 
part,  is  secretly  longing  for  affection 
and  hiding  his  need  for  attention 
behind  an  outward  hard  shell.  Some 
children  seem  to  have  innate  good 
manners  and  breeding,  and  to  be 
thankful  for  everything;  others  seem 
to  feel  that  they  are  constantly  mis- 
understood and  are  ever  ready  to 
voice  opposition. 
It  was  noticeable  in  one  family 
that  one  child  was  always  happy  and 
contented  with  his  Christmas  pres- 
ents; however,  his  brother  always 
acted  as  if  his  own  presents  weren't 
as  good  and  that  the  other  child  was 
especially  favored.  Their  mother 
had  the  same  objective  in  her  train- 
ing for  the  two  —  to  make  them 
appreciative  of  gifts  which  were  giv- 
en them,  but  what  an  extra  amount 
of  love,  attention,  and  understanding 
were  poured  out  by  her  on  the  dis- 
contented child  before  he  arrived  at 
the  happy  acceptance  and  apprecia- 
tion which  was  inherent  in  his 
brother's  character! 
There  are  at  least  two  resolutions 
which  a  mother  may  make  which 
will  aid  her  in  the  proper  training 
of  her  children.  One  is  to  keep  an 
open  mind  and  find  out  all  the  cir- 
cumstances of  any  misunderstanding 
before  she  quickly  blames  a  child 
who,  at  first  glance,  may  seem  to  be 
the  culprit.  The  great  example  to 
keep  before  one  is  the  perfect  jus- 
1

EDITORIAL  305 
tice  of  the  Heavenly  Father.   Many  ment?  .  .  .  Did  you  keep  your  word? 
times  in  hfe  unfair  conditions  can  You  have  not,  and  the  child  forms 
be  endured  only  because  one  has  the  the  conclusion  in  its  own  mind  di- 
knowledge  that  justice  will  be  done  rectly   that   the   mother   tells   that 
in  the  end.  which  is  not  true  .  .  ."  {Discourses 
The  second  resolution  is  to  keep  oi  Biigham   Young,   1941   Edition, 
one's    word.      The    Lord    promises  page  210).     Children  have  a  keen 
''I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  sense  of  justice  and  it  is  dishearten- 
what   I   say;  but  when  ye  do   not  ing  and  confusing  to   them   when 
what   I   say,  ye  have  no  promise"  mothers  do  not  keep  their  word. 
(D  &  C  82:10).  A  mother  relies  on         The  example  set  by  a  mother  is 
this  promise  of  the  Lord  and  she  all  important.    Heavenly  Father  has 
should,   in   turn,  earnestly  seek   to  given  to  his  daughters  the  rearing 
have   her   children   look   upon   her  of  his  spiritually  begotten  children, 
promises     as     binding.       Brigham  No    other   work    takes    precedence 
Young  felt  this  keenly  when  he  ad-  over  the  training  of  each  individual 
monished  mothers,  ''What  did  you  child  so  that  when  he  is  old  he  will 
promise  your  little  girl  if  she  would  not  depart  from  that  training,  but 
do  so  and  so.  .  .  ?     If  she  does  ill  be  welcomed  back  to  the  celestial 
have  you  promised  her  a  chastise-  family  circle.  — M.  C.  S. 
Suburos 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
Houses  are  similar  along  this  street, 
The  yards  are  much  the  same  in  landscape,  yet 
Each  differs  from  the  other  to  complete 
The  total  image  picturesquely  set 
On  this  avenue  of  suburbia,  where 
Trees  bordering  the  walk,  flowers  in  bloom, 
Touches  of  various  colors  here  and  there 
Transform  each  small  house  into  one  called  Home. 
Here  life  seems  calm  and  good;  bright  water  sprays 
Upon  the  lawns,  while  ginghamed  neighbors  go 
To  the  corner  store;  while  a  small  dog  strays 
Behind  them,  moving  lazily  and  slow. 
While  clean  and  happy  children  jump  the  rope, 
The  visitor  looks  on,  renewing  hope.