[Vol48 | May 1961 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
INTERNATIONAL  SINGING  MOTHERS  CONCERT  TOUR 
289 
accurate  accompaniments  were  helpful  to 
choir  and  soloists  alike. 
Of  the  contribution  of  the  choir  to  the 
programme  one  can  only  speak  in  the 
highest  terms. 
Helped  by  the  absence  of  copies,  there 
was  absolute  unanimity  in  everything  they 
did,  with  constant  attention  centered  on 
their  conductor,  whose  clear  and  mean- 
ingful leadership  ensured  splendid  preci- 
sion. They  sang  with  artistic  expression 
and  never  lost  vitality,  whether  in  vigorous 
and  strenuous  passages  or  in  the  quietest 
parts.  But  while  praising  highly  their  tone 
and  the  general  interpretation  of  the 
music,  it  was  that  rare  quality  in  singing, 
splendid  enunciation,  which  struck  me 
most.  Such  clarity,  such  care  with  ade- 
quate stresses,  left  the  audience  in  no 
doubt  about  the  words. 
Classical,  English,  and  American  com- 
posers were  represented.  Only  to  mention 
a  few  —  Handel's  ''Come  Unto  Him"  was 
beautifully  sung,  as  was  Elgar's  "The 
Snow."  We  were  given  an  unaccustomed 
staccato  rendering  of  a  Bach  chorus,  but 
it  was  effective.  An  Irish  song,  "I  Have  a 
Bonnet  Trimmed  With  Blue"  was  very 
taking,  and  Landon  Ronald's  "A  Southern 
Song"  was  given  an  interpretation  which 
warranted  the  repetition  demanded. 
Dr.  Madsen,  the  conductor,  had  one 
composition  and  two  arrangements  in  the 
programme,  all  bearing  the  stamp  of  expert 
musicianship,  and  her  "Come,  Ye  Blessed" 
was  given  a  sincere  and  moving  rendering. 
A  remarkable  achievement  of  Dr. 
Florence  Madsen,  and  one 
which  received  considerable  atten- 
tion and  commendation,  was  the 
perfect  blending  of  the  English, 
Scotch,  Irish,  Welsh,  and  Western 
American  accents  into  an  harmoni- 
ous oneness.  This,  however,  was 
not  the  only  blending.  The  lives  of 
the  sisters  were  blended  as  one. 
From  the  hour  when  the  Queen 
Mary  docked  at  Southampton  bear- 
ing the  American  group  until  fare- 
wells were  spoken  at  Liverpool,  a 
spirit  of  love  and  sisterhood  pre- 
vailed. The  welcoming  song,  ''Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints,"  sung  by  sixty 
British  singers,  came  ringing  across 
the  water  as  the  ship  docked  and 
was   promptly   answered   by   ''Now 
Courtesy  Fox  Photos,  Ltd. 
THE  SINGING  MOTHERS  AT  HYDE  PARK  CHAPEL

290 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY   1961 
Courtesy    J.    Walter    Thompson,    Ltd. 
ARCHITECT'S   DRAWING    OF   THE 
HYDE  PARK  CHAPEL 
Exhibition  Road,  Kensington,  London 
Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salva- 
tion, No  Longer  As  Strangers  on 
Earth  Need  We  Roam."  This 
glorious  and  heartfelt  singing  formed 
a  favorable  beginning  for  loving 
friendships. 
The  most  impressive  and  mem- 
orable of  the  many  long-to-be-re- 
membered occasions  in  which  the 
chorus  took  part,  was,  without 
doubt,  the  dedication  service  of  the 
Hyde  Park  Chapel  in  London,  on 
Sunday,  February  26,  1961,  at  ten 
A.M. 
The  building  features  many  new 
advancements  in  chapel  design.  The 
spacious  and  attractive  chapel  hous- 
es a  concert  organ  of  2,545  pip^s, 
forty-three  stops,  and  three  manuals 
of  sixty-one  keys  each.  A  large  rec- 
reational room  with  a  stage  adjoins 
the  chapel  and  may  be  opened  to 
accommodate  overflow  congrega- 
tions attending  meetings  in  the 
chapel.  There  is  a  large  and  beau- 
tifully decorated  Relief  Society 
room,  a  spacious  kitchen  with 
modern    kitchen    equipment,    and 
twenty  classrooms.  The  building 
also  has  a  baptismal  font.  Of  great 
convenience  is  a  basement  garage 
designed  to  hold  forty  cars.  The  out- 
side of  the  building  is  equally  as 
beautiful  as  the  interior.  A  ninety- 
foot  tower  capped  by  a  gold  leaf 
covered  spire,  rising  an  additional 
forty  feet  to  place  the  spire  top  130 
feet  above  the  street  level,  and  with 
a  narrow  panel  of  colored  glass  run- 
ning vertically  up  the  tower  face,  is 
illuminated  at  night.  It  may  be 
seen  long  distances,  an  eye-catching 
and  inspiring  sight  on  the  London 
scene. 
With  the  entrance  of  President 
and  Sister  McKay  for  the  dedicatory 
service,  accompanied  by  Elder  and 
Sister  Hugh  B.  Brown  and  Elder  and 
Sister  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  the 
great  gathering  of  saints  and  friends 
who  had  assembled  early  for  the 
service,  rose  as  one  and  stood  in 
silent  and  reverent  respect  until  our 
distinguished  Prophet  and  President 
and  his  beloved  and  honored  wife 
were  seated.  The  joy  of  the  sisters  in 
having  Sister  McKay  present  when 
the  women  of  the  Church  were 
being  honored  by  having  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  provide  music 
for  this  auspicious  occasion,  was 
apparent  in  their  faces  as  Sister 
McKay  entered  the  building. 
T^HE  chorus  sang  with  sweetness, 
clarity    of    tone,    and    a    soul 
quality    that   were   deeply   moving, 
the  following  anthems: 
"The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows 
Flee,"  by  P.  P.  Pratt  and  George  Careless. 
"Send  Forth  Thy  Spirit,"  by  Schuetky, 
arranged  by  Frederic  F.  Smith. 
"Peace  I  Leave  With  You,"  by  Roberts. 
"Thy  Blessing  on  This  House,  Dear 
Lord,"  words  by  Alberta  H.  Christensen 
and  music  by  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.