Ruth's Thanksgiving Elsie Talmage Brandley
Ruth Conroy stirred uneasily in her sleep. There was a mental alarm clock somewhere within the recesses of Ruth's curly brown head, and it warned her that 6:30 had arrived. It was disquieting to have such a warning when the girl longed so ardently for another hour of slumber, but the imaginary ringing was insistent. Ruth arose and automatically staggered toward the window to raise the shade, and the instant that was accomplished, her drowsiness vanished and a great flood of glorious springtime swept over her. From the cherry tree, outside the window, came a chorus of chirps and trills which warned Ruth that their annual hopes of quarts of cherry preserves were being reduced to their annual disappointment on that score by the warbling robbers-red-breast, but the beauty of the spring morning was so effective that she forgot to resent the thievery. She stood there so long that the seven o'clock factory whistles were blowing before she had even commenced to dress, and she had to hasten lest Marian and Tom should be late for work.
As Ruth descended the stairs she was assailed by the unpleasant aroma of last night's supper. It was vaguely sickening, and as she threw up the windows, she made several decisions. "It's perfectly disgusting that Marian thinks she has to serve a midnight meal to the whole crowd after every party or show. I don't notice any of the other girls entertaining so lavishly, and it simply has to stop. Marian doesn't take one ounce of responsibility about the work, meals or money in this house, and there must be a change. I'll not be imposed upon any longer."
Going to the kitchen, she commenced somewhat resentful preparations for breakfast. At 7:30 she went to the stairs and called, "Marian! Tom! It's time to get up. Breakfast is nearly ready." Breakfast was entirely ready, and the living-room swept and dusted before Tom came down. He and Ruth sat down to eat, well knowing that waiting for Marian meant a scant breakfast, bolted in appalling haste. Ruth's resolution was still strong upon her, and she unburdened herself to Tom, who was nearly twenty-two, but still, seemed to this older sister, the wistful-eyed boy of twelve, who had been entrusted to her care upon the death of their widowed mother ten years before. 
"Tommy," she said quietly, "something has to be done in this family about cutting down expenses. We can't keep up this pace, and still hold onto the old home, here. If you and Marian have to have as many clothes as you have had this last year, and can't give up a show now and then, we'll have to sell the place and live in furnished rooms?so there!"
Tom proved argumentative: "Why, Sis, we ought to get along rather well on what we have, I should think. I'm making over a hundred a month, Marian gets eighty, and your salary is seventy, with a raise in sight. If we can't manage on that much, for three of us, there's something wrong with the management, I'd say."
Ruth flushed and arose from the table. She vanished in the general direction of the kitchen, but returned very soon with her little black book of figures. "Perhaps there is something wrong with my managing, but I want you to cast your eyes over this. In six months you and Marian have not turned in over twenty dollars to the house fund. You've bought theatre tickets and flowers and silk shirts galore, while Marian has had enough gloves and stockings and veils to have bought three or four really serviceable dresses. The housekeeping has been done out of my seventy-with-a-raise-in-sight, and I've not enough left to have my oxfords re-soled."
"Murder, Sis, I didn't know it was as bad as that. I've got my June check coming tomorrow, but it's pretty well sewed up already. I owe Slim Wakefield quite a wad for gasoline. He furnishes the car if we other guys buy the gas. I've charged a suit at Stacey's, but he might let it go for another month. Marian ought to come through with at least fifty dollars this month, and then I'll slow up. Honest, I will, Ruth."
Ruth's eyes filled with tears. She loved this brother with all her heart, and Marian was the dearest sister that ever lived. They were both young and full of life, and really should have pretty clothes and good times like the rest of their crowd. "Don't worry about it, Tommy boy. We'll get along all right. I hate to trouble you about it, for I know how hard it is for young people to be bothered with money matters. It used to nearly drive me frantic when I was twenty and had to keep us all on what I earned and the little dividends from Daddy's stocks."
"You've been a brick, Sis, and after this month I'm going to see that you get a better deal." Tom, having finished a delicious breakfast, was inclined toward generosity, and Marian burst into the room just in time to hear the last of his remark.
"Good old Tom!" she cried. "Will you put in a word for me, too? I need a good deal as well as Ruth does."
"What you need is a good deal of discipline, young lady," he returned. "Drop into the office at 5:30, and I'll walk home with you."
"Can't do it, old boy. I'm going shopping tonight after work."
"Well, so long. Cheer up, Ruth. Every cloud has some kind of lining, you know."
Tom was off to work and Ruth began clearing up the breakfast table. "Marian," she said doggedly, "You mustn't buy expensive things to eat like you did last month. It's absurd for us to have crab and shrimps and tomatoes out of season?especially when I don't get a bite, and have to pay bills."
Marian's pretty mouth drew up in a discontented pout. "Oh, Ruth!" she exclaimed petulantly, "Don't forever be harping expenses! Just because you've always liked messing around with budgets and expense-savers, you needn't think everyone clamors for that life. I have to buy crabs and lettuce and tomatoes because they are the only things I can fix nicely to serve, and you refuse to stay up later than ten o'clock, so I don't get any help from you. It's a sort of tradition in the crowd that I will serve them a salad after the show, and I can't disappoint them."
Ruth was helpless in the face of Marian's argument. Marian always had the last word, and her sister had learned, many years earlier, that the one way to stave off a quarrel was to fall into silence at the beginning of any warm discussion. Marian had eaten for breakfast an orange and one slice of toast, and was taking a final shine off her nose before the hall mirror. "I want to talk to you, Ruth, but it will do just as well tonight at supper. And, by the way, you'd better ask one of your friends to go to that recital with you. I have a date."
"You are going out rather often, Marian. Is your date with Douglas again?"
"Mercy, no! He's a mere child. This time it's a real man?one you used to know. He dropped in to see you last night, but you were putting the laundry to soak, so I knew you'd be ashamed to have him see you so disheveled. I took him out walking and we met some of the bunch and took in a movie. That's why I used tomatoes. They all came in afterwards, and we had salad and bread and butter." "Dropped in to see me? Who on earth could it have been?" Ruth's curiosity was burning. Men who dropped in to see her were so scarce now as to be extremely novel. 544 ! "Oh, you'd never guess, Sis! He's as handsome as a movie star, and polished! All the girls fell for him in concert, but he seemed rather devoted to insignificant me. It was Alan Lee, ancl he's a full fledged doctor, come back here to practice. Sorry I can't help with the dishes, Ruth, but I'm almost late now." The door slammed and Ruth was left alone in the house? alone in the room which only last night had held Alan Lee. She felt sick and faint. Alan Lee was home again. She would see him, touch his hand, and chat casually of various subjects. She would see him come into this house, all smiling and beyish and lovable, to take Marian out somewhere. She knew how manly and fresh he would look, for it was only four years ago that he had come there to take Ruth out somewhere, and he tad looked boyish and lovable then. Ruth's heart ached with a queer heaviness. Alan Lee had dropped in to see her last night. But he had not seen her. Instead he had seen Marian, pretty, s: ylish, clever Marian, and now perhaps he would never care to see Marian's old, tired, shabby sister again. Queer that it should seem so tragic, Ruth thought. There had never been a word of love between them. They had heen friends for fifteen years, but that was all. He had sent her pink roses when she was graduated from High School, but that was all. He had been the dim figure in the dim dreams she had dared to dream of a future, but that was all. A glance at the clock bade her fly. She had but twenty minutes to wash her hands and get over to the school house where, for six hours and a half, she would teach the first-grade children to read. "I see Mama. I see Kitty. Mama sees Kitty. Kitty loves Mama." All day long it seemed that she could see before her a crazy phantom page of primer writing which read: "I see Alan. Alan sees Marian. Alan loves Marian. Will Marian love Alan?" At supper that evening Marian explained to her sister that she had picked out material for a new dress. "My blue taffeta was a wreck, and I simply had to have a new one. I saw a beauty at Gardner's but it cost sixty dollars, so, of course it's out of the question, but I can buy the material and trimming for twenty, if you'll make it. You will won't you, Sis? There's a dear!" Marian flew around the table to give Ruth an impulsive hug, for Ruth had nodded quietly. It seemed to her that conditions might be more bearable if she faced them squarely, and made clothes 108 Marian to wear when she went out with Alan Lee. After washing up the supper dishes, she went ups'airs to bed, for there was a dreadful weariness within her. Sleep would not come, however, and she lay wide awake until after Alan Lee's RUTH'S THANKSGIVING 545 words to Marian had floated up from the porch, and in at the window. "Don't forget Friday night, Marian. Ill be up at eight for you. And tell Ruth she might at least be around to say hello to. A fellow after four years." By Friday the new dress was done, and Marian was radiant. She was young and undeniably pretty, and she was going to the theatre, in a new dress, with a man who was more interesting than anyone else she had ever known. She was letiing Ruth fasten her dress and suddenly she asked, "Why did't you ever fall in love with Alan? He told me that he'd have asked you to marry him if you'd have given him any encouragement." Ruth did not answer immediately. She waited long enough to make sure that her voice would be steady. "What a strange question, Marian. Alan and I were merely friends, and once I told him that I could never marry anyone until you were grown up, and capable of taking care of a home yourself. Now you are grown up, but I'll confess I've not been very successful in teaching you housekeeping." "Why should I' bother about cooking and sewing, as long as my good old Sis can do it so quickly and well. But I'm glad you had that idea long ago. Otherwise you might have been engaged or married, and Alan would never have looked at me." The doorbell rang sharply. "Ruth, you'll have to answer it. I'll be down in ten minutes." So Ruth opened the door to admit Alan Lee. They shook hands and laughed, but Ruth felt that she was wearing a mask which laughed to hide the weariness and pain underneath. Alan had changed very little. He was more mature and at perfect ease, but about him still lingered the old attraction, the same spontaneous boyishness, and Ruth felt that she had aged ten years to his five. "It is pretty fine to come back to the old town, Ruth," he assured her. "Even if it does take a week to get one glimpse of an old friend." "I?ve been so busy, Alan," she faltered, I have my days free after half past three, so I try to do a little sewing for Marian, and the cooking for all of us. It keeps me busy." "You try to do altogether too much, I can see. You look tired, Ruth, and you shouldn't look that way, at your age. Let Marian shoulder part of the responsibility. She needs it." Marian bursting into the room precluded the necessity of an answer. In a minute the two were gone, and again Ruth was alone. Spring budded and bloomed into mid-June and Alan Lee was a constant caller at the Conroy home. Marian seemed to grow 546 prettier everyday, and Ruth felt that she must look forty years old beside the youthful loveliness that was Marian's. She felt old, too, and for the first time in her life, dreaded the heat of the summer and the work of preserving and pickling which came with it. Alan perceived her growing listlessness and pallor, and determined to take matters into his own hands. He took them on a particularly sultry day, near the first of July, and the taking included a call upon Ruth in the afternoon. Marian never got home until six, and he wanted a confidential, uninterrupted talk. He found Ruth white and sick over a pan of raspberry preserves, and his austerity vanished. He had come prepared to be extremely dictatorial, but a sudden tenderness overwhelmed him, and his voice was all too sympathetic for Ruth's ragged nerves. She sank into a chair and burst into childish sobbing. Alan was indignant. It's criminal for you to be slaving this way for those two who are perfectly able to relieve you of most of the burden of this place. I don't blame Marian, not a bit. You've brought this upon yourself?always shielding Marian, always doing her work for her. You've never demanded anything of her, and what's the result? A nervous breakdown for you, and an inadequate idea of housekeeping for Marian. Now Ruth, I'm going to be very firm?for your sake, and Marian's, and my own. You haven't asked my advice, but I'm giving it anyway, and I might send in a bill." Ruth smiled wanly, but said nothing. She was half afraid of what Alan might say, but she loved his masculine, dominating way. It had been years since anyone had made a decision for her., "Listen, Ruth, carefully please. You are in need of rest? complete rest with no worry. Marian's vacation begins on Monday, and instead of going to the mountains for two weeks, she must stay here and take care of you. I'll explain to her how absolutely necessary it is, and I'm sure she won't object." "But where do you come in? I understood you to say it was for your benefit, too, Alan." "It is, Ruth, for my ultimate benefit. Do you realize that Marian is nearly twenty years of age, and she has never baked bread yet? She is an attractive, splendid girl, but to a man as old as I am she is sorely lacking in certain qualifications. I want to see how much housekeeping she can learn in two weeks. That's rather vague, but I don't care to be more explicit just yet." Ruth understood, perfectly. Alan Lee was in love with Marian, but could see her failings.. "He wants her to learn to cook and keep house for him, A RUTH'S THANKSGIVING 547 man is always practical," she galiloquized, and for the sake of Marian's future happiness she resolved to try the plan out. Alan did the necessary explaining to Marian. Ruth never knew just what he said, but it must have been straight talk, for Marian gave up her long anticipated trip to the mountains with never a word of regret. The orders of Doctor Alan Lee were that Ruth should do nothing but rest and read, and he dropped in twice a day to see that instructions were not violated. As part of the rest cure, he took her out on several of his country trips, early in the morning in the cool sweetness of the summer evenings. Sometimes he? took lunch for both of them, and they ate together beside some little singing brook, or beneath the cool shade of a wayside grove. The rest cure was having prompt and visible effect on Ruth She grew rosier every day, and gained three pounds the first week. It was so delicious to be cared for, so new to have Tom and Marian taking the burden of the housekeeping upon themselves that Ruth enjoyed every moment of it. The one disquieting feature of it all was that Marian was learning too readily. She cooked things well, and tried out new recipes with astonishing success. The house looked neat and clean, and each of the few times when Ruth had peeped surreptiously into cupboards and into the refrigerator, she found them as clean and orderly as her immaculate heart could wish. That meant that Marian was showing herself remarkably adapted to home-making and Ruth could see that Alan was observing her aptitude with increasing joy and satisfaction. That was the one fly in an otherwise sweet and healing ointment. Alan was glad that Marian was learning, glad that her schooling would soon be over and he could claim her as his own capable and efficient wife. Never once, did he express himself as enjoying Ruth's company on his trips or at their cozy little meals together. Always his first question, as indeed practically every question, was as to Marian's progress. Did Ruth think her sister was learning to cook? Could Marian manage a household budget properly? Would Ruth feel safe in turning her out as a student of her teaching? And as the days went by, Ruth could answer more and more truthfully, "Marian is getting along beautifully. She puts heaps of interest and enthusiasm into her work, and never seems to get bored or weary." At such replies Alan Lee smiled with such a wealth of glad anticipation that Ruth's heart stung with the new sharpness of the old pain. It was harder than before to face the prospect of Alan as a brother-in-law. How could she endure the years ahead, if it held for her only a chance to share in the joy and happiness which would be poured out so abundantly for Marian and Alan? At last Marian's vacation came to an end, but the vigilance of Dr. Alan Lee continued. "It's this way," he explained to Ruth, "you are still weak, though you feel much better than you did a month ago. What you need is a good, long, consistent rest, and you are going to get it, or I'll know why. Marian has made wonderful strides in her house-keeping lessons, but she is far from efficient even yet, so she must relieve you of all the heavy work in this house until? well, let us say Thanksgiving. Ruth's heart sank within her. Alan was getting definite in his plans concerning Marian. He had mentally set the day for Thanksgiving! And what would the lonely 'old sister have to be thankful for? Not one single, solitary thing, unless she could muster unselfishness enough to be thankful that her sister was to marry the man they both loved. Ruth admitted the fact to herself without equivocation. She loved Alan years ago, she still did love him, and she had every intention of loving him forever. However, she said nothing of her intention to the cool, good-looking man at her side. She merely looked at him, and her pulse quickened in spite of herself. "By the way, where is Marian? I have a visit to make out near the lake, and I called up an hour ago and told her to chuck three sandwiches into a bag, and I'd take you both along with me; efter my call, we'll go down and row on the lake. There's a glorious moon scheduled." "Yes, Marian told me you phoned. But are you sure you want me along? I'm such a chronic invalid now that I'd hate to spoil a gay outing." "Of course, we want you. Don't we, Marian?' This to the younger girl who had appeared at the door just then. "Why, most certainly. We want you, Ruth. I've put a jar of jam in the lunch-box that I made all myself. I'm getting along beautifully as a home-maker!" She and Alan twinkled at each other from their eyes, and once again Ruth felt that cruel little stab that seemed to come so often, lately. The little trip was perfect, and they all three enjoyed it to the utmost. Marian claimed that it made up for her whole lost vacation, and Ruth felt ten years drop away as she laughed and chattered with the others. The folowing day, Marian went back to work, but not until she had dusted the rooms prepared breakfast, washed the dishes and put a rice pudding in the oven to bake for Ruth's lunch. Day after day was a repetition of the first one, and Ruth was forced to confess that life was easier because of Marian's RUTH'S THANKSGIVING 549 helpfulness. Alan had forbidden her to start her teaching, lest it set her nerves all awry again, so she determined to make herself useful in one way even if other ways were denied her. Full well she knew that Marian would be needing a trousseau before long, and hour after hour she spent hemming table I'nen and scalloping pillow-slips. It was all to be a surprise for her sister, and as September drifted hazily into October, and that into November, the piles of snowy bridal things grew higher and higher. The girl could see for herself that by Thanksgiving Marian would be capable and efficient enough to suit the most demanding husband. Two days before that holiday Marian approached her sister with a demure hesitancy and a suggestion that they might invite Alan Lee to dinner, if she had no objection. "I think he wants to talk to you and Tom." Ruth hoped valiantly that her voice betrayed nothing of the ice around her heart as she bade Marian invite him, by all means. Alan came, greatly delighted at the prospect of a real home Thanksgiving dinner once again. He ate ravenously, from turkey to plum-pudding, and Tom enjoyed the guest as much as he did the meal. They all lingered around the table after further eating was impossible, and during a lull in the general conversation, Alan began to speak in very serious tones. "I want to put a question to each one of you. The answer is of great importance, at least to two of us, so don't consider it flrppantly. First you, Tom. Do you regard your sister, Marian as competent to run a household without Ruth's help?" Tom smiled broadly. He had smelled a rat long ago. "She cooked this dinner all herself. If that isn't recommendation enough for any man, it's because the man is anut. I thank you." "And you, Ruth. Are you willing to pronounce her ready for graduation in house-keeping?" Ruth was conscious of a slight irritation. It seemed a bit too materialistic, this way Alan had of rating house-keeping ability as the supreme virtue in a wife. Her voice was almost stony as she replied, "Marian is quite able to manage a home, I'm sure." The younger girl sat with glowing eyes and smiling lips as, Alan continued to speak, "Last spring when I got back here, I came straight to yon, Ruthie, with the hope that Marian had been trained to step into the family major-generalship. You were too busy to see me, and a few days later, as you wearily shook my hand, you looked older 550 than your years would justify. I could see that you considered yourself heaven's own appointed drudge in this house, so I set about and planned three steps in a cold-blooded campaign. First, I would take Marian out awhile and give you a chance to discover your real feelings toward me. Second, I would take: Marian into the secret, and show her how necessary it was for her to learn the "heavies'" around here before you would ever consent to leave her to them. Third, I would wait until you could see that Marian and Tom no longer need you, and then try to convince you that I do need you. Ah, Ruth, I've needed you for years. You won't make me wait much longer, will you, dear?" Ruth was stunned into temporary silence, but Tom ecstatically bounded around the table to clap them both on the shoulders. "My blessing upon you, old dears. Count on me for best man." Marian was equally impetuous. She kissed them both and assured them that she would have fallen for Alan, herself, if he hadn't been so frightfully aged. When Ruth finally spoke it was with a voice of golden gladness. She was very lovely just then, for all the pent-up love of many years was blazing from her eyes. What she said was,. "Alan! I thought there wasn't a single thing in the world for me to be thankful for this year, and there's everything!" Marian started toward the kitchen with the pudding plates, and Ruth never knew that the little sister was shedding lonely tears as she went.