Jealousy H. L. Johnston Tobar Nevada
The other day I overheard a remark which started me thinking about writing this article. A young married woman I know, remarked to one of her friends: "Don't you know? Sometimes I think my husband doesn't love me as much as he should. He never shows the least bit of jealousy." Her friend laughed and asked: "Do you think a man or a woman should be jealous to prove that they love anybody?" The young wife replied: "Indeed I do. My idea of love is that whenever your husband sees you talking or laughing with some other man he will go right up in the air and start something. That would prove to me that George cared enough that it would make him jealous to see me having a good time with somebody else. He don't seem to care, though. Someday I'm going to do something just terrible to see what he will do."
So you see, kind readers, that is the interpretation too many of our married folks put upon the two words love and jealousy. In the first place, just what is love? The good Book answers that question, saying, "God is love"; and where God is, there shall ye find love also! That seems to be a pretty good definition of love, but let me try and add a little to it. When a maid and a man are joined together in the holy bonds of matrimony they should, of course, try to establish a home. To make that home successful, there must be perfect confidence between husband and wife. They will make that home a place of order, love, union, rest, and absolute trust. When they have done that much, they have made of that home a sacred place. When a home is built upon such a foundation it is built upon a rock, and there is no welcome sign on the front door step for a certain green eyed monster, known as Jealousy. In that home all worldly considerations are given second place. The first thought of husband and wife is for each other and for their children, for in such a home children must surely come, bringing their brightness and forging the strongest guard against disruption. Most important of all is religion. Without it, the home is built like a house upon the sands of the seashore, and the first angry wave of trouble that washes against its foundation will cause it to crumble and fall in ruins about the heads of the two who swore to love, honor, and obey. The worst trouble is jeal-
ousy, it has wrecked more homes than all the forces put together.
Back in New York's Greenwich village, where live the artists from all parts of the world, a German painter set up housekeeping with his pretty little French wife. The two were devoted to each other. The husband, a great artist, spent long hours working on his canvases. At first the little wife was delighted to know that her husband was in line for big successes. Then the idea entered her head that he loved his painting more than he did her. She nursed the little germ of jealousy, and it grew so rapidly that it blinded her to the fact that her artist-husband was burning the candle at both ends for her sake alone. He wanted to dress her like a queen, buy jewels for her?when his picture was done. Then came the warped view that he was taking too much pleasure by painting his models. They were posing in the nude, but the canvas her husband worked on was giving promise of being something worthwhile?a masterpiece, a great creative work. One night, as the picture was nearing completion, the monster in the little French woman's brain took full possession. Creeping into his studio she took a knife and ripped the beautiful picture to ribbons. In less than two minutes, driven by jealousy, spurred on in her work by the urging of the monster, she wrecked a masterpiece, the work of months; a work her husband had sweat his heart's blood over in creating. Then a strange thing happened. As soon as the picture was destroyed, the scales fell from her eyes. The monster deserted her. It seemed as if he had laughed at her misery as he left her and had said: "See! I have fooled you. Now I am returning to my master, the devil?for further instructions."
When the World War broke out a devoted husband kissed his wife goodbye and went overseas. Never in their married life had a single thing come up to cause what happened later. In the long waits in the trenches and dug-outs he heard some of his buddies telling about conquests they had had with married women. That night the husband lay awake for many hours thinking about the little wife he had left behind in the States. Then the germ of suspicion entered his brain and taking firm root started growing. For two years he nursed this insidious monster of suspicion and jealousy until it took complete control over his every thought. He suffered the torture of the damned, until he was at last mustered out of the service and once more stood before his wife who was waiting with love shining in her eyes and arms outstretched. Did he greet her in the way she deserved, after waiting faithfully for the day of his return? He did not. The suspicion 
he had dreamed over in the trenches had become a fact in his mind. The first words he spoke were words telling her that she had been untrue to him. When an innocent woman is accused of doing wrong, she tries to smile her way through the hurt tears?if she loves the man, and if the man is in his right mind he knows at once that he has made a mistake. This little woman looked surprised and hurt, but through her tears she smiled bravely back at her soldier-husband and held out her arms once more. Did he see innocence in that tearful smile, that wistful look in her eyes, which seemed to say, he must be joking? No. He saw nothing in her eyes but guilt. He was blinded so he couldn't see the truth. He attacked her and would have killed her had he not been prevented by friends. Later, when the soldier-husband came up for trial the judge sentenced him to three years, saying at the time: "I am making your sentence light, for I know that during the years you nursed your insane jealousy you must have suffered the tortures of Hell. Now that you have lost the woman who would have gone even to Hell for you, if need be, you will have plenty of time to think it all over in three years."
Jealousy, that germ planted in a human mind by the devil himself, a germ of rapid growth, when not treated with the only antidote, Love, is nothing more nor less than self-pity. The person who is jealous loves nobody but himself. When he sees his wife laughing and talking to friends and grows jealous about it, he is not thinking about his love for the wife?just thinking about himself, is all. He is one of the greatest victims of EGO in the world, and in his jealousy's wake you can find wrecked homes, children in rags and dirt, broken hearts. You find his children in the juvenile courts, for they have been robbed of what rightfully belonged to them?a home, love, understanding, and confidence, which is found only in the home where jealousy cannot enter. Sometimes you will find the victim of his unjust suspicions on the downward path?and worse?for there is another element enters after he has made his claim?scandal; the tongue waggers, often overwhelm the victim and in many cases, drive her in despair to do the very things she was unjustly accused of doing.
I hope my young married friend will read this article. It might make her feel much better when she knows that her George is far from showing signs of jealousy. I know the reason. Her husband loves her. He has confidence in her, and may the Lord grant that he always will.