Ten Reasons Why I Should Subscribe for the From Union Stake, La Grande Oregon
1. It is the official Magazine of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, and should be loyally supported by every member of the Society.
2. It is edited and controlled, in its various departments, by women who are divinely inspired, thereby inspiring confidence and trust in all its statements.
3. As the official organ of the Relief Society it publishes a statement or synopsis of the various subjects or lessons treated in their meetings, thus being a reliable guide to all who subscribe for the Magazine and study it.
4. The women who contribute articles to the various departments are women of practical experience, knowledge, and keen intellect, who give its readers information that can be relied upon.
5. It helps the mother who is rearing a family, when she uses the information it gives pertaining to children in their various stages of growth.
6. It teaches thrift and economy, when we observe its timely counsel and advice, giving practical illustrations.
7. It teaches the Word of Wisdom and how to retain good health in the various recipes printed in its columns from time to time.
8. It teaches us how to take care of our bodies, "The temples of God," and thus avoid sickness and disease, and that cleanliness is a part of Godliness.
9. It teaches all to live a pure, chaste life, to cultivate clean thinking, thereby cultivating only the highest ideals and thoughts in the various subjects treated in its columns, and the stories it publishes always contain a good moral.
10. It teaches us that charity is the pure love of God in our hearts, and that we must love our neighbors as ourselves, thus helping us to be better women, wives and mothers.
Reasons for Taking Magazine
For one dollar we receive one year's training in every walk of life. I should subscribe in order that my subscription may help this organ of instruction to live.
I should subscribe for the R. S. Magazine that I may aid my sisters in the great purpose of life, "Service to mankind."
We keep in touch with one of the greatest woman's organizations on earth, and uphold and sustain a Prophet of God.
Every Latter-day Saint woman should subscribe for the R. S. Magazine, because the articles contained therein assist in her physical, mental and spiritual development, thereby making her nearer the ideal wife and mother here on earth; and thus aiding in her development throughout the countless ages of eternity.
The R. S. Magazine contains the instructions for all of our activities?our guide for the study of the subjects intended for our development.
It is the instrument by which we do Relief Work?we might as well send our children to school without text books, undertake to make a dress without material, or cook without heat, as to be a Relief Society worker without the instrument?The Magazine.
I doubt if one of us would willingly lose a chance to attend a General Relief Society conference in Salt Lake City where our most inspired leaders are to be heard; for those who are denied this privilege, the conference reports are published in the Magazine?each talk given verbatim.
How many of us older members have had the opportunity to study American literature? The R. S. Magazine holds out a first class course for you this year in American Literature. Here you are given a chance to study in The Relief Society what your daughters are getting in high school?do not let this opportunity get by you.
The Magazine also offers a course in social service. These lessons are wonderfully practical?they deal with the problems of the handling of children during the adolescent period and kindred subjects. Every mother has felt, or will feel helpless in the face of some of the perplexing problems of this age. Let us take what help is offered us by our leaders, through the course in our .
?