Teachers' Topic for January THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME Faith "Faith is a perfect trust in God, allied with obedience to his commands."?John Lord, TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY 581 Faith in God is to believe that he is, and that he is the only supreme Governor and independent Being in whom all fulness and perfection and every good gift and principle dwell independently. "Faith is the foundation of all righteousness." ?Gospel Doctrine. Page 122. (a) The early teaching of prayer instills in the heart of the child faith in the Lord and his goodness and mercy. (b) Family prayer is a strength and guidance for life's daily cares and labors. (c) Private and silent prayer is a comfort and help to the soul. NOTE: In introducing gospel principles for teachers' topics, it is desired that these subjects be discussed in a friendly, conversational manner. In School Days John Greenleaf Whittier Still sits the school-house by the road, His cap pulled low upon a face A ragged beggar sunning; Where pride and shame _ were Around it still the sumachs grow. - mingled.: And blackberry-vines are running. Pushing with restless feet the snow Within the master's desk is seen, To right and left, he lingered;? Deep scarred by raps official; As restlessly her tiny hands The warping floor, the battered seats, The blue-checked apron fingered. The jack-knife's carved initial; He saw her lift her eyes; he felt The charcoal frescoes on its wall; The soft hand's light caressing, Its door's worn sill, betraying And heard the tremble of her voice, The feet that, creeping slow to school, As if a fault confessing. Went storming out to playing! 2 yee: "I'm sorry that I spelt the word; I hate to go above you, "Because,'?the brown eyes lower fell, "Because, you see, I love you." Long years ago a winter sun Shone over it at setting; Lit up the western window-panes, i.; And low eaves' icy fretting. Still memory to a gray-haired man That sweet child-face is showing. Mace the ee eee curls, Dear girl! The grasses on her grave nd brown eyes full of grieving, H Rove: b ing! Of one who still her steps delayed OND DSS aN SNS When all the school were leaving. He lives to learn, in life's hard school: How few who pass above him For near her stood the little boy Lament their triumph and his loss, Her childish favor singled: Like her?because they love him. The Farewell Of a Virginia Slave Mother to Her Daughters Sold Into Southern Bondage John Greenleaf Whittier Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Where the slave-whip ceaseless swings, Where the noisome insect stings, Where the fever demon strews Poison with the falling dews, Where the sickly sunbeams glare Through the hot and misty air? Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. There no mother's eye is near them, There no mother's ear can hear them; Never when the torturing lash Seams their back with many a gash, Shall a mother's kindness bless them, Or a mother's arms caress them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. O, when weary, sad, and slow, From the fields at night they go Faint with toil and racked with pain, To their cheerless homes again, There no brother's voice shall greet them? There no father's welcome meet them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From the tree whose shadow lay _On their childhood's place of play? From the cool spring where they drank, Rock, and hill, and rivulet bank,? From the solemn house of prayer, And the holy counsels there? Gone, gone?sold? and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Toiling through the weary day, And at night the spoilers prey. O that they had earlier died Sleeping calmly, side by side, Where the tyrant's power is o'er, And the fetter galls no more Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. By the holy love He beareth? By the bruised reed He spareth? O, may He, to whom alone All their cruel wrongs are known, Still their hope and refuge prove, With a more than mother's love. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Robertson's "EASY" Washing Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah ?, Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Ca 2 LAUNDRY Office 819 Main St.. Telephone Hyland 190 4 Distinctive Work { The Farewell Of a Virginia Slave Mother to Her Daughters Sold Into Southern Bondage John Greenleaf Whittier Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Where the slave-whip ceaseless swings, Where the noisome insect stings, Where the fever demon strews Poison with the falling dews, Where the sickly sunbeams glare Through the hot and misty air? Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. There no mother's eye is near them, There no mother's ear can hear them; Never when the torturing lash Seams their back with many a gash, Shall a mother's kindness bless them, Or a mother's arms caress them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. O, when weary, sad, and slow, From the fields at night they go Faint with toil and racked with pain, To their cheerless homes again, There no brother's voice shall greet them? There no father's welcome meet them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From the tree whose shadow lay _On their childhood's place of play? From the cool spring where they drank, Rock, and hill, and rivulet bank,? From the solemn house of prayer, And the holy counsels there? Gone, gone?sold'and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Toiling through the weary day, And at night the spoilers prey. O that they had earlier died Sleeping calmly, side by side, Where the tyrant's power is o'er, And the fetter galls no more Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. By the holy love He beareth? By the bruised reed He spareth? O, may He, to whom alone All their cruel wrongs are known, Still their hope and refuge prove, With a more than mother's love. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! A Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Robertson's "EASY" Washing Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah Choose the service which will meet your needs?'Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Dia a, ef LAUNDRY Office 819 Main St.. Telephone Hyland 190 Distinctive Work: Do Not Waste Your Energy In "Shopping" Call up Hyland 60 and let us take care of your requirements DICKINSON'S Fresh Squabs on short notice. All kinds of delicious Summer Drinks. East 2nd South Street. Hyland 60. Our most valuable assets are our many satisfied Customers. Salt Lake City, June 29, 1923 The management of the urges an early settlement of all outstanding accounts. PHOENIX SILK STOCKINGS "The Silk stocking that stands wear." No. Ladies' Black, white, brown, grey, Otter$1.25 No. Ladies' Colors as above 1.65 No. Ladies' Full Fashioned. Colors as above 2.00 POSTAGE PREPAID. SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS. OGDEN-UTAH KNITTING STORE.. Mention - CENTURY PRINTING CO. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. Service is Our Motto. Our Phone, Was. 1801. ) Choice Meats. 2357 Washington Ave. Fancy Groceries. Ogden, Utah Glazier and Taylor 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair.............. $2.00 Box of Three Pairs....... 5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair 25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair........ $1.65 Box of three pairs $4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID NS 4} C Both Public and Private contain bound volumes of the Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols. 1915, leather bound.. $3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound 3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound .. 2.75 5 vols. 1917, leather bound. 3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound:. 3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound... 2.75 5 vols. 1919 leather bound............................. 3.50 10 vols, 1920, leather bound 3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound... 3.50 1 vol. 1922, cloth bound 2.75 5 vols. 1922, leather bound. 3.50 l5c extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the , Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.. UNDERTAKERS Marr D Simons 4913-15-17