[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: FOREIGN LETTER. | Author: Unknown]

FOREIGN LETTER. 

Malaela, Samoa, July 8, 1898.

Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	So little you hear of Samoa and so many
Elders have been here proclaiming the Gos-
pel, and our mission has been organized
eleven years, during that time there have
been one hundred and nine missionaries, so
we are now a thoroughly organized mission.
The manners and customs of this people are
different from ours, and the mode in which
we are compelled to proclaim the Gospel so
departing from the usual method, I thought
a letter might be of interest to you and the
readers of the “Exponent.”
	My husband and I left Manti Sep. 9,
1897, for a mission to Samoa. We de-
parted from San Francisco Sep. 10, 1897,
on the steamer Mariposa, all our Elders go
second class. The accommodations on the
Mariposa are not very good on account of
the second class apartments having been
transformed from steerage rooms, but the
same class on some of the other vessels is
very much improved. Sep. 23, we an-
chored at Honolulu where we met Elders
Hill and Ahlstrom, who escorted us to the 
Mission house where we had dinner, chat-
ted about Zion and our voyage. Honolulu
is truly a picturesque city adorned with
lawns, flowers and palms. At 2 p. m. we
again raised anchor. Our voyage was


[Column 1]
calm, there being no high winds or tropical
rains. On Sep. 30. at 10 a. m. we went up
on deck and with the aid of field glasses
we beheld Samoa in the hazy, blue distance.
As we came nearer we could see the out-
lines of the island, next the stately palms,
dotted here and there with white smoke
curling heavenward from the ovens of food,
the little village among the palms, and last
the dusky natives in their curious dress and
canoes. Owing to the bad harbor at Apia
there is no wharf, so we were met on deck
by President Wood who took us ashore in a
small boat. After landing in Apia the
president had a small boy drive us three
miles along the coast to Fagalii, the mission
headquarters. There we met Elders Chaun-
cy Spilsbury, William A. Moody, William
McDermott, D. Foster Cluff and Edwin
Smart. In the evening when President
Wood returned we met in testimony and
sacrament meeting, a usual welcome ac-
corded to all the Elders on their arrival.
	The mission headquarters is a neat little
five roomed frame house surrounded by
lawns, dotted here and there with ferns,
cactus, roses and various flowers adapted to
the climate. Although no mistress person-
ally adorns the home, yet the ideas of a
mistress are seen in all its arrangements.
Samoa, as Stevenson says, is the paradise of
the South Pacific. The natives are not in-
dustrious. Nature produces their food with
but little work on their part, thus fostering
indolence; however, the talo needs consider-
able attention as it must be irrigated and
weeded.
	The new woman has not yet come to
Samoa. She is of little consequence here
save in courting. When married she gath-
ers the food from the bush, makes the cigar-
etts for the men, as smoking is universal;
her name is significant, “Faletua,” the
back part of the house.
	In an article in the February number of
the “Exponent” entitled “Polynesia,” de-
scribing the customs of some of the South
Sea islanders, the custom of ava drinking is
referred to as follows:
	“After the [-]atives have drunk th ir fill of awa
(ava) they simply fall over from their seats on
the mats on which they have been sit ing while
drinking, and sleep ou[-] the effects of the drug, un-
til which it would be impossible for them to stand
up for a moment.”
	Since the arrival of our Elders eleven
years ago there has been no such custom.
One of our first missionaries, Elder E. J.
Wood, who is now on his second mission as
president, never heard of such a thing. In
preparing the ava instead of its being mas-
ticated by the virgins, it is pounded fine on
smooth rocks for the purpose, put in a
wooden bowl where it is then strained,
after which it is served to the chiefs by the
virgins with great ceremony.
	In the same article the writer says:
	"Speaking about storms in the tropics my hus-
band relates an experience he had in Samoa.
While crossing a lava bed [-]bout twelve miles i
extent together with a traveling companion, a
regular tropica rain storm came upon them; and
such a storm conveys the sense of "pourin[-]"
more than raining to the average American. See-
ing the storm approach m[-] husband i[-] speaking
to his companion expressed the regret they had
taken no overcoats along. “Overcoats,” respond-
ed his companion, “just look at me, and if you
like you can fol ow my example.” To his sur-
prise his companion immediately undressed him-
self and put his clothes in his ittle and satchel.
My husband hesitated but finally did likewise, and
the result was that when the storm abated they
both had dry clothing to put on.”
	For fear the readers may think this is the

[Column 2]
way the Elders travel, as the subject of the
incident is the traveling Church historian,
I will simply state it is the first incident of
its kind in Samoa that our president has
ever heard of; although we have rains that
fully convey the sense of pouring and bliz-
zards accompanying them to make it more
severe, yet such an act would not for one
moment be countenanced in the Samoan
mission. Contrary wise the Elders are
very, very particular about their person
and dress, remarkably neat considering the
class of people they labor among. I have
no wish to criticise the writer, but simply to
state facts is the reason why I have men-
tioned these things.
	Conditions make differences in the meth-
od of proclaiming the Gospel. For instance,
the Savior’s command to His apostles that
they should go forth and preach without
purse or scrip is impossible in some coun-
tries on account of laws forbidding it.
Holding outdoor meetings in Samoa is not
necessary as in America, for there is always
a house that the earnest Elder may have
for the simple asking for it. Although
Samoa has been termed barbaric which
warrants ignorance on the part of the in-
stigator, Samoan civilization has some of
the characteristics of an ideal community.
Seldom indeed a young man is found who
cannot read or write, and from a narrative
point of view knows Genesis to Revelation
with considerable clearness, yet doctrinally
their views are rather shallow. The method
of proclaiming the Gospel in Samoa is left to
the good judgment of every Elder. Tracts
are distributed and house to house visits
are made. When a chief or man of author-
ity embraces the Gospel he is generally the
beginner of the Church in that village.
He builds a house with the assistance of
the Elder in which meetings are held on
Sunday and generally one during the week.
The house also is the home of the Elder.
A school is commenced with great num-
bers for the first few days. All novelties
have their followers. The English lan-
guage is a coveted gem on Samoa. School
dwindles down to a very few; generally
the children who stay embrace the Gospel
and many times have been the means of
bringing their parents into the Church.
	Four churches are established on Samoa.
Faiti, which came first, is the Lutheran
church; the Toga, because it came from
Toga, is the Wesleyan church; the Catholic;
and last and fewer in number is the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Much
bitterness is manifested towards us by the
teachers of villages as one by one the sheep
over which they are man-made shepherds
hear the voice of the Good Shepherd and
follow Him, thereby lessening their flocks,
and increasing the fold of Christ. Out of
the population of 30,000 on Samoa upwards
of 1,000 have embraced the Gospel.
	There are at present twenty-seven Elders
and three sisters laboring on the islands of
Samoa. A great field is open for our sis-
ters in teaching the people the art of dress,
as they are very careless about their person.
A taste must be cultivated for neatness;
Spencer says that ornamentation precedes
dress. This does not seem to be verified
with the Samoans, usefulness seems to be
their paramount consideration in clothing.
As to their homes they could be very much
improved in neatness and convenience.
This can only be done by rearing their chil-
dren and instilling into them entirely new
ideas concerning home life. I have had a

[Column 3]
class in sewing and crochet work, they
"pick it up" very readily, it gives me great
delight to start them in this work. Crude
as are the results, yet all reformations have
small beginnings. I hope an evolution
will be carried on until we have them carry-
ing that glorious banner—Civilization in its
true meaning.
Your sister on Samoa,
