[Pressed Flower Pictures—a 'Designing' Hobby]

Pressed Flower Pictures—a ''Desj ning'' sning Hobby Mina Hartvigsen Wright, Murray, Utah, Creates Lasting Beauty by Arranging Flowers in Frames "MAKING pressed flower pictures is only one of my hobbies," Mrs.
Wright ex. Plains, "but it challenges the skill of my fingers and the reaches of my mind." The possible patterns and combinations of form and color are infinite, but all of Mrs. Wright's "floral portraits"' reveal gtacefulness, expert blending of tones and tints, as well as striking and unique contrasts. In addition to the methods used by many hobbyists, Mrs.
Wright experiments with tinting petals and coloring the delicate network of veins in the blossoms. She is an expert at the exacting art of sand pressing. Her designs have won many prizes and awards, including a certificate of honor presented by the Utah Centennial Committee in 1947.
Between the newspapers. For weights she uses an old anvil, a pan of nails, or any other heavy material which will exert sufficient pressure.  PRESSED FLOWER PICTURES 405
When the flowers have been gathered and pressed ready for assembling and designing into "portraits" Mrs.
Wright prepares the picture frames and mounting materials. For the foundation of the portrait she uses heavy, smooth cardboard, padded with cheesecloth and covered with silk, satin, or taffeta in cream white or some pastel tint. The flowers are attached to the mounting with liquid paste. A masonite back is used to protect the picture from breakage and to seal it against dust and smoke. Mrs. Wright, in spite of being crippled since childhood, lives a full and useful life. At the age of five she suffered a fall which broke her back and from which she has never fully recovered.
Very early in her childhood she Icarned to make yarn flowers and mount them on velvet and under glass. She made tissue-paper flowers; she tinted modeling clay and used it for many arts, making flowers, figurines, and picture frames. She also learned dressmaking, quilt and rugmaking, and various types of handwork. A musician and organist of ability, Mrs.
Wright is also a poet, having written over two hundred original compositions. In Church work her particular interest is genealogy, and at home her large family, six sons and a daughter, make life interesting and eventful. "What a privilege is life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," Mrs.
Wright often remarks, for she has found the world wide and wonderful, and she endeavors to share her talents and her accomplishments with others.