[Table Settings and Flower Arrangements: Pleasure From Simple Things by A. J. Neff]

TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS 401 shows a fine specimen, exactly as it was picked up on our jaunt.
This branch illustrates perfectly the principle of informal balance. Can't you just picture it mounted on a plaster of Paris base and set in a large window with ivy or philodendron twining around it? OW as to the actual arranging of flowers.
Remember it is always desirable to incorporate some accent into the design. It is like a dress. The dress that is remembered is the one with some sort of accent. It gives character to the dress and likewise, accent gives character to the flower arrangement.
Usually the best accent flowers are those that grow in tall spikes, such as snapdragons, stocks, glads, heather, Liatris, and the like, many of which are to be found in our gardens. In the absence of a spike flower, one may be improvised by tying or witing flowers together as a garland to resemble a spike.
Much has been written about "line" arrangements in flowers, and the term has been unnecessarily shrouded in mystery.
Many people have told me: "Oh I couldn't do a line arrangement." Yet they go ahead and make a design and, without knowing it, use an adaptation of this principle. 'There is really nothing difficult about it. A "line" design is merely any arrangement that falls into dominant or accent lines. 'The beginner, placing asters loosely in a bowl usually makes a fine effect. She uses the "line of the circle." Of more character than the line of the circle are those of the vertical, the horizontal, and various combina- 

402  TABLE SETTINGS AND FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS tions or adaptations of these two. The principal idea to keep in mind with any arrangement of dominant lines is to keep them flowing, graceful, and spontaneous, never set, rigid, or stiff. One particular form, which is not only interesting but is capable of innumerable variations, ls the line of the asymmetrical triangle. 'The accompanying diagrammatic illustrations show various adaptations of this informal arrangement. 'The diagrams show what would be twigs, branches, or flowers. In actual practice, however, the materials used are seldom found as illustrated but must be cut, bent, and arranged to conform to the desired effect. 'The drawings not only illustrate the principle of dominant lines but serve to show how balance achieved. (Note the effectiveness of may be 403 placing the pin frog "off center" when using a low, shallow bowl.) Much could be said, if space would permit, about the containers in which we place flowers. Do not be afraid to sharply accent.
Make dominant lines really bold, leaving no doubt as to their dominance. One good rule to follow is to make your accent a minimum of one and half times the height or length of the container. A florist often uses lines as much as two or three times the dimensions of the container. If any part of the above discussion confuses you, please don't despaitr!
Keep trying. Don't lose interest.
Learn to experiment.
Above all, don't make flower arranging a chore. It should always be on the light-hearted side.
Please have fun with your flowers. [This is the third in a series of short articles on table decorations, flower arrangements, and related subjects.
Suitable to particular seasons. —Ed.| In the coming months Sister Judd will present other suggestions -.—<i-<—- Mlargery Katherine F. Larsen Where can one find words for 'her? In the limpid dark wells of her eyes Dwell many mysteries, many sorrows, Yet from their depths spontaneous laughter springs, Sparkling up like fountains toward the sun.
Where are words to tell of her? Her voice is as moving and as strangely sweet As the liquid fall of water in a cool canyon. The strength, the flowing quality of her, Are like a constant, slowly changing river. A stillness lies upon her mouth, upon her hands, Until the fluid lines of speech or laughter Ripple them as water under wind.