Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE MIRACLE OF TESTIMONY The Nature of a Testimony: A religious testimony is a state of certitude occasioned and sustained by a spiritual influence. It must have behind it some sort of superhuman support, and therefore has in it the miracle element. It differs from a state of mental certitude obtained by thinking. It is more the fruits of conversion than of conviction. In its perfection, it is intellect plus inspiration; it is knowing plus feeling. We are convinced, through philosophy, of the necessity for God; we are converted through religion to acquaintance with God. A person seeing the fruits of "Mormonism" might apply for membership in the Church, through a conviction that it is the most perfect organization on earth for the development and happiness of men; but he could not claim to be a convert until he could say, "I am not only convinced in my mind, but I feel in my soul that it is God's work." This feeling of the truth occasioned by the presence and the power of the Spirit of the Lord, is the conversion from which our testimony comes. The Two Forms of Obtaining a Testimony: To most of our young people the miracle of testimony is one of gradual growth or development. Unknown to them, the mother's lullabys, the bed-time prayers, the family devotion, the Sunday School songs, and all the spiritual activities in which they take part, are all making them converts. Their whole being has been gradually adjusted to the pleasurable companionship of the Spirit of the Lord, and this spiritual growth has been as natural and unconscious as the growth of their bodies and their intellects. When they are baptized and confirmed, the presence of the Spirit of the Lord during these ordinances occasions no surprise; they simply feel that they have done right and this feeling is conversion; it is testimony. The Spirit of the Lord with which they are habitually acquainted testifies to them with a certainty akin to that of the voice that spoke out of heaven to our Father Adam at his baptism. They are born sons and daughters  of God in a miraculously natural way. (See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 6:64-68.) -This form of conversion might fittingly be called the natural growth form. Recently George Albert Smith declared at a Utah Stake conference that he did not know when he first obtained a testimony. There is another form of conversion, which is attended with more or less spontaneity or exceptional experience, and it is accompanied by so much sudden transition that it is the one great epoch-making event in the life, and under certain conditions it is accompanied by physical disturbances. This form of conversion may be called spontaneous conversion. (See Compendium Gems, pages 288, 289.) Methods of Conversion: When conversion becomes man's business, means and methods are of vital consideration. Great care is taken as to the settings for the event. The spiritual revival becomes a matter of thought and materialistic preparation. The building, the lights, the mourner's bench, the sermon, the psychic moment, all these means and more are found in the sectarian procedure of churches authorized by men, named after men, and dependent upon men! Where conversion is recognized as beyond the power of man or as a divine gift, the investigator is told to place his own case before the true and living God, as did the boy Joseph Smith. He should find out for himself, and this finding is the rock upon which the Church of Christ is built up in the soul of man, as a system of knowledge, and upon the earth as a system of ordinances for the salvation of the whole human family. Of one who is so converted, it may be said, the Kingdom of heaven is within him for his comfort and support, and it is also without him, offering opportunities for his growth and development. Retaining our Testimony or Our State of Conversion: As our testimonies are obtained through doing works, so will they be retained through a continuance of these works. A testimony, 'be it ever so glorious, can not safely be kept as a spiritual ornament, like the powers of the Priesthood, it fades away through neglect. President George Q. Cannon, in a discourse to the young people in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, enumerated among' other causes of apostasy or loss of testimony, "unchastity, finding fault with the authorities of the Church, and the neglect of Church duties." The best testimony that a nontithe payer can bear is, "I know that the gospel is true, and I know that I am not true to it." Attending to our prayers is one of the fundamental duties. The retention of testimony is governed by that great law of the universe which says, "Use and retain, abuse and lose."  Increasing of Testimony: Spiritual testimony grows parallel with our positive acquaintance with God. Satan and Cain and legions of evil spirits had an acquaintance with God but it jwas all negative. Being always in an antagonistic attitude none of them could ever know God as the loving Father, or Jesus as the Redeeming brother. There was no room in their souls for the testimony germ, but with Adam, Abraham, Moses, Joseph Smith, and many others, their testimony grew to a perfection and they knew first of the existence of God as the Father of all, of Jesus Christ as the Redeemer of the race, and were spiritually conscious that their course in life was such as to merit the favor of the Lord. The growth of testimony as a gift is dependent upon our determination to serve the Lord "at all hazards." Testimony is increased. By the study of the word of God. We. Read the scriptures for information; we read them for confirmation and the refreshing of our faith. Testimony is increased by listening to the word of God. The habit of attending conferences and sacrament meetings is a habit of testimony growth. Our testimonies grow by bearing them to others. Language is not only a mode of expression but it is a source of thought crystallization and intensification of feeling. It is by no means necessary that testimony bearing be accompanied by a desire to' talk; it often happens that the gift of testimony follows a humble hesitant attempt to express a 'belief, a hope, a desire, or a bit of knowledge concerning God and his goodness. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is a testimony? 2. Wherein does conversion differ from conviction? 3. Discuss this problem: Reason may convince, but revelation only can convert. 4, Give scriptural proof that individual testimony is the rock upon which Jesus Christ declared he would build his Church, (Matt. 16:16, 17.).5. Contrast the testimonies of Peter and that of Cornelius, concerning Jesus of Nazareth, with a view to discovering which was a conviction and which was a conversion. (See John 3:3.) 6. Compare the testimony of the'Wise Men from the east with that of Simeon, in the temple, concerning Christ. (See Matt. 2:22; Luke 2:25-32.) 7. Distinguish between the progressive testimony and the spontaneous, or sudden, testimony. 8. What is Joseph the Prophet's explanation of the different effects of receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost? 9, Discuss this statement attributed to Brigham Young:  a testimonies are obtained upon the feet than upon the nees." 10. Give the views of President Joseph F. Smith concerning obtaining a testimony. (See Gospel Doctrine, page 158.) 11. How are our testimonies to be used? (See Gospel Docirine, page 257.) 12. What are the chief purposes of testimony bearing? (See Gospel Doctrine, pages 258, 259, 260.)