EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The sisters of these parts, despite their appar-
ent silence, are not altogether dormant as far as
their duties and privileges as mothers and sisters
in Israel are concerned. We hold our regular
monthly meetings under the presidency of Mrs.
Rebecca Wareham, to whose able management to-
gether, with the good advice of our esteemed bish-
op, Bro. John B. Maiben, much of the success
that, with God's blessing, we have been able to
achieve are due. In these meetings we seek to
carry out, to the best of our ability, the primary
object as originally contemplated, [-]iz., to devise
ways and means for the relief of the suffering, and
amelioration of the condition of the poor of Zion.
Besides these we have our work meetings, dona-
tion committees, etc., which all contribute to the
object in view.
	Mainly in order to extend our facilities to afford
the needed assistance to the poor, the sisters of our
society have for some time had under contempla-
tion, and have lately determined on opening a So-
ciety store, where many articles which the society
produces, but not immediately needed by the con-
suming poor, can be converted into such other
needed commodities as are not at present within
our reach to bestow. To this end we have sub-
scribed among ourselves nearly two hundred dol-
lars, with which we intend to start on a small scale,
hoping and expecting that the institution will, with
God's blessing, increase and be the means of ex-
tending the usefulness of our Society.
	In connection with this I must not forget to
mention that our young sisters have their retrench-
ment Society, under the Presidency of Miss Han-
nah Billings. Considerable interest is manifested
by them in this direction, and we hope and pray
that they may accomplish much good to themselves
and the community.
	Speaking of Retrenchment reminds me of an
editorial I read in one of the late "Exponents," in
which you animadvert severely and deservedly on
the "prevailing fashions and customs of society,"
but seem to take the ground that the opposite sex
is solely responsible for the present corruption, dis-
honesty and vice existing in high places, as you
speak only of the wines, cigars, horses, &c., of
the men, whereas I should also like to have some
mention made of the silks, satins, pearls and dia-
monds of the women. When I read such descrip-
tions of toilet as have recently appeared in our
"Dailies," toilets in which a woman's jewels alone
amount to competent fortunes, and in comparison
with which all your male appointments of cigars,
wines, etc., dwindle into utter insignificance, I am
forced to regard women—with their inordinaie de-
sires to outshine each other in the richness of their
dress and ornaments, and the splendor and brillian-
cy of their entertainments, dinner parties, balls,
etc., thereby entailing upon their husbands ex-
penses requiring princely fortunes to bear up [-]nder
without transgressing the strict bounds of honor
and honesty—as bearing a great share of the re-
sponsibility for the present existing state of things.
	I deeply sympathize with our sisters in the East
and elsewhere in their efforts to emancipate our
sex from the inferior condition and place they have
hitherto politically occupied, but excuse me if I
make the assertion that reform is needed elsewhere
first. Let them first accomplish something in sim-
plicity of dress and style. As for jewels, let them
remember and pattern after the "Mother of the
Gracchi."
	Yes, though I do claim for woman a political
as well as social equality with man, I also hold
that Home is especially her kingdom, and here
she has full scope to mold both the men and wo-
men of the future; to make, or mar our statesmen
and leaders of politics, as well as our leaders of
fashion and society.
	Let them commence at home then where their
influence should be and always can be supreme.

[Column 2]
Let them improve the opportunities they have
first to their full extent and, as sure as eternal
justice exists, their other aspirations will in due
time find their fulfilment and all their noble de-
sires be accomplished.
	I thank God that the work of reform has already
commenced in this Territory; it was high time.
Already the same vicious tastes have made inroads
upon us, and the pernicious example of Babylon
has led astray some of our daughters and brought
grief into some of our families—but let us not be
weary in well doing, and faint not.
	May the work, so nobly begun, spread from
hence over these United States—over the world.
May the Spirit of God accompany the efforts of all
who work in righteousness, is the prayer of your
Sister in the Covenant.
