			(CONTINUED.)

	Leaving Evanston, I had a very cold sleigh-
ride over to Paris, where I arrived safe and
well after a two day's ride, and found my
children all well, but very anxious about me;
they have had a very un[-]sual stormy winter;
I noticed that the snow had drifted over the
fences, so that in going to a house you would
have to walk over the tops of the fences and
go through deep cuts. Paris has improved
since I was there a year and a half ago; several
new buildings have been put up. They have
two day schools, and their Sunday school is
well conducted and attended. I visited their
Sabbath school and by the invitation of the


[Column 1]
superintendent Bro. Hodge, made a few re-
marks to the children, on obedience to  parents,
respect to their teachers, and good behavior.
On the 3rd of February, I met with the Relief
Society. President Rich, and Bishops Budge
and Horne met with us, much useful instruc-
tion was imparted, the brethren giving encour-
agement to the sisters. On the 7th of Febru-
ary I was blest with another little grandson,
my twenty-seventh grandchild. As soon as I
could leave my daughter, I was invited to vis-
it St. Charles. I met with the Relief Society
in the afternoon; the Bishop and several breth-
ren were present. The spirit of Go[-] was poured
out upon the speakers, both brethren and sis-
ters. In the evening I met with the Young
Ladies' Society; there were a great many more
brethren present in the evening, and we had
an excellent meeting.
	The next day I went to Bloomington; two
sleigh loads went with me from St. Charles; I
experienced some of the difficulties of travel-
ing in the winter, there was only one beaten
track, and the snow was several feet deep.
When we met a loaded team we had to turn
out of the road to let them pass, as soon as the
horses stepped off the road, down they went as
if they were going to be covered up, plunging
and jumping to extricate themselves, while the
riders were climbing to the tops of the sleighs
to keep from upsetting. When the poor hors-
es got on the track again they were sweating
and panting, this occurred three times in a
distance of six miles. When we arrived at
Bloomington, the Bishop and several of the
brethren were gathered with the Relief Society
ready for meeting. After the sisters got
through speaking, the Bishop made some ex-
cellent remarks. The next week the sisters in-
vided me to organize the young ladies. We
met and I organized them into a Retrench-
ment Association on Thursday of the next
week. The house was well filled with the
brethren and sisters; their worthy Bishop being
present. Much good instruction was given, af-
ter the organization was over, by Bishop Os-
mond and several of the other brethren.
	On the Saturday following I met with and
organized the young ladies of Paris into a Re-
trenchment Association. President Rich and
Bishop Budge with several other brethren were
present, we had a very interesting time to-
gether, President Rich giving a great deal of
good counsel and excellent advice to them.
the Bishop also expressed great satisfaction
with the organization, offering to meet with
them and give counsel at any time, if they
wished him to do so. There having been some
misunderstanding about the time of meeting,
just as we dismissed, several sleigh, loads of
people drove up from Bloomington to attend
the meeting, but they were too late. I felt
humbled almost to tears to see the interest the
brethren as well as the sisters manifested,
wherever I held meetings. Much prejudice
was removed with regard to the sisters meet-
ing together in the capacity of Relief Societies.
Whenever I was invited to meet with the sis-
ters, I prayed that the Lord would give me
such words as the people most needed, and
when the Bishops and brethren would say
they had been instructed and edified, I felt
that my labors had not been in vain. Truly
the Lord poured out His spirit upon me, and
as a mother in Israel I tried to discharge my
duty, in counseling and instructing the sisters
on the responsibilities that devolve upon them
as wives and mothers, and as members of Re-
lief Societies. Also to sustain HOME MANU-
FACTURES, and help build up the kingdom of
God. I advised them not to send East for
trashy literature, but instead subscribe for the

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, which would give
them information from other parts of the Ter-
ritory.
	I cannot tell you half of my experience here,
in this letter. I have enjoyed my labors and
duties, and trust that I have sown some good
seed.
	With prayers and best wishes for all who are
interested in the building up of the Kingdom
of God.
	I am as ever your Sister in the Gospel of
Peace,
