DOMESTIC ECONOMY.

	How to economize time, how to make the
best use of every moment, and how to find mo-
ments enough to accomplish all she desires, is
one of the most important questions with the
young housekeeper, or the young lady who
wishes to acquire a practical knowledge of
housekeeping.
	When a young girl wishes to assist in the
duties of the household, and yet have fixed
hours for other things, she should choose those
departments which are independent of others;
such as doing up her own collars and muslins,
taking care of her bed room, trimming the
lamps and making them ready for use, waiting
on the table, washing up the dishes after sup-
per, and many other things that can be quickly
disposed, and leave her at leisure for other em-
ployments. Where it is necessary, however,
to co-operate with others, this should be done
agreeably, and private arrangements should be
made to accord. If required to make cake or
pies, and it can be done before breakfast, there
is a great saving of time in this; as by rising a
little earlier than usual it may be accomplished
without sacrificing any of the customary oc-
cupations. The proper dress for the business
can be put on at once, and time may be saved
in that way also.
	At breakfast, a grown-up daughter should re-
lieve her mother of the trouble of presiding,
and by giving her mind to the subject and
learning all her mother's ways, make it agree-
able to her to resign the office. Some young
ladies, who are earnest to be of use and take
some of their mothers' duties on themselves,
by not entering into the true spirit of the bus-
iness and learning to do things in the best
way, render their services unacceptable. And
far from being conscious that the fault is in
themselves, they blame their mothers for not
allowing them to share their burdens. And
again, some mothers are at fault in these
things. It is a mistaken kindness for a moth-
er to excuse her daughter from all participation
in the work of the house, and it is mistaken
economy for her to prefer always to attend to
the most particular portions of the work her-
self, rather than trust them to her daughter or
take the trouble of teaching her. But, as we
have before shown, the daughter should take
an individual interest, and by being deter-
mined and exact, make her mother feel well
in relinquishing some of the more important
cares of the household.
	Delicacy and neatness may be shown in the
manner of handling cups or plates, and in
helping persons to the simplest fare at the
humblest board. A thousand little niceties
will occur to the girl who gives due attention
to the subject, and resolves to accomplish do-


mestic duties with the thrift of a good house-
keeper, and the ease and dignity of a refined
lady. When once good habits are acquired in
this department, it will require less attention,
and things will always be done in the best way
without the necessity of much thought being
bestowed upon them. Discipline or the want
of it is much the same in all departments of
human proceedings. As in writing, a good
scholar spells correctly without thinking, a
poor one incorrectly without knowing it, just
so are household duties performed by the edu-
cated or uneducated housewife.


[Column 1]
