EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The subject of raising silk is awakening
some interest in this Territory, and we
watch with much anxiety the silk associa-
tion in Salt Lake City, as an example for
the Territory. The raising of silk may be
made a very profitable enterprise, by em-
ploying thousands of the inhabitants of this
Territory in cultivating the mulberry trees,
and feeding the worms. The silk busi-
ness is but little understood by the best in-
formed on the subject among us, and not
understood at all by most of the inhabitants
of this Territory. That there is much
wealth in the silk business is unquestiona-
ble. The mulberry tree will grow about the
same as the peach tree, in almost any kind
of soil, but both will grow and prosper the
best in good rich soil. The mulberry tree
will raise its foliage without irrigation—the
leaves maturing sufficiently from the snow
and rainfall of the winter and spring.
These trees may be successfully raised with-
out irrigation. I have about 500 trees, some
of them about nine feet high and they pros-
per well without irrigation, and very little
cultivation. The bench oaks and maples
both mature their foliage annually with the
snow and rainfalls from above—in the same
manner will the mulberry tree prosper, and
it has been my conviction for sometime
that this Territory is allowing probably a
million of dollars annually to remain in the
soil, that might be obtained by the cultiva-
tion of silk. In the month of May of 1874
I transplanted about 1,500 young trees to a
part of my farm, and with few exceptions
they have thrived well without any irriga-
tion, and I do not intend to give them any
water; the land is hilly and irregular and
cannot be irrigated to advantage. During
last year (1875) my 500 trees retained their
foliage till the frost came. I have been ex-
perimenting, and observing the progress of
the silk interests in this Territory for sever-
al years—almost since the silk subject com-
menced to be argued, written about and ac-
ted upon. The mulberry tree may be win-
ter irrigated after the summer season is
past. It will wet the soil deep down, which
will amply supply the roots with moisture
to raise good crops of silk, as well as cause
the trees to grow luxuriantly. If the soil is
wet deep down, the pabulum can be absorbed
by the roots easily. Winter irrigation for
the mulberry, and summer irrigation for

[Column 2]
other kinds of produce will make Utah rich.
	The question may arise, will not the mul-
berry tree be killed by winter irrigation?
Two years ago I allowed the water to run
among the 1,500 hundred trees before men-
tioned, all winter and not one tree was
killed to my knowledge.
	There are many thousands of acres of
land here in Tooele Co., that may be made
available for the cultivation of silk, and
materially enrich the country. In every
part of the Territory where the mulberry
tree will grow, the water may be applied
to much advantage in the winter. It is dif-
ficult to kill the trees with frost, the roots
descend deep into the soil and will endure
a great deal. The tree should be well culti-
vated, kept free from weeds, and the soil
around the roots kept light and loose. They
may be planted five by five, or two by six
feet apart, so as to be accessible by a horse
and plow—the same as corn. The trees four
feet apart would be 2,720 to the acre, and
five feet apart 1,742 to the acre. What
amount of silk can be raised to an acre of
three year old trees, well cultivated? I
wish some of our silk raisers would inform
us.
	There is one remarkable fact in the feed-
ing of the worms—if they are fed leaves
from irrigated trees and the acid juicy fluid
is in the leaves in its unripe state, it will
give the worms the colic, or in other words
a deathly consumptive appearance, and will
shortly kill them if continued. The leaves
should be as ripe as possible when fed to
them. The silk is made from, and com-
posed of the ripe resinous elements with
which the leaves are impregnated, and
therefore should be good and ripe when fed
to them. The question has been asked me,
will not the mulberry trees prosper well
planted by the side of ditches? The ans-
wer is yes, but the acid juicy elements ab-
sorbed by the roots, will kill the worms if
it ascends up into the leaves and they are
used in their unripe condition. Experience
and experiments have too often satisfied
many that unripe fruit is unhealthy both
for men women and children, and very of-
ten when indulged in produces summer
complaints; in like manner will unripe mul-
berry leaves effect the worms. Mr. Hoag,
of California, states that "the trees should
not be irrigated within three weeks of
feeding time." The unripe leaf feeding
will never be a success to any silk raiser.
The dry bench land, or land with a dry bot-
tom or sub-soil, where the water can be
turned off at will is the best. It is well to
propagate the mulberry from cuttings.
With good seed and proper management,
from 30,000 to 50,000 trees may be raised
from one lb. of mulberry seed, the seed
should be planted the same as lettuce, on-
ions or cabbage seed for depth of soil, in a
sandy loam that will not bake on the top,
and become hard, it should be kept care-
fully moist until the seed germinates; it
should not be planted until the warm weath-
er comes, about the middle of April, or la-
ter, if the weather is not warm, the cold
will injure the young plants.
I am satisfied that this is a good climate,
with good care and management, for silk
culture. How much silk is annually work-
ed into silk goods and finery; the following
will give some idea:—See Departments re-
ports for 1870 pages, 238-9. In the North-
ern States silk is manufactured into dress
goods, ribbons, velvets, and trimmings; the
amount according to statements in com-
mercial papers being variously estimated at
$10,000,000 to 20,000,000 worth annually.
We have found it difficult to obtain relia-
ble information, and cannot vouch for the

[Column 3]
correctness of the following affirmations and
figures, but present for what they are worth,
statements apparently reliable. Boston
reports 50 silk factories, mainly engaged in
manufacture of velvets; New York, 50, and
the business is carried on extensively in
Schenectady, Troy, Yonkers and at Oneida,
by the Oneida Community who commenced
late in 1866, manufacturing nearly $25,000
worth in 1867, and now employ 130 female
operatives in their factories. A considera-
ble business is done at Mansfield, Hatfield
and Manchester in Connecticut. A com-
pany in Manchester is said to fabricate
yearly 60,000 pounds of thrown silk, 60,000
pounds of patent spun, 100,000 pieces of
belt ribbon, 600,000 yards of wide goods,
consisting of dress silks, gros-grains, pop-
lins, foulards, and pongees; employing 1,-
000 operatives. The capital invested in
Masachuseetts, New York and Connecticut
is 5,000,000. Philadelphia has thirty fac-
tories, with a capital of $1,500,000. Patter-
son and New Jersey has fifteen factories;
one corporation manufactures every month
3,000 pounds of silk thread, 4,000 gross of
silk braids, 600 gross of hat bands, 350 yards
of serge, and employs 300 operatives,
mostly children. Another makes 70,000
yards of dress trimmings monthly. The
aggregate number of persons employed in
the factories at Patterson is 3,500, and there
are 70,000 spindles. The raw silk used by
these companies is imported from China
and Japan free of duty, but first passes
through the English market where the pri-
ces are fixed."
	The silk raising commenced in China, and
has spread through many countries, and
now Utah has a chance with others. Mr.
Hoag of California says he raised $2,000
worth of silk from one acre of trees. If
$550 worth can be raised from one acre,
President Young's statement will be cor-
rect.	There is a great amount of information
on the subject of silk raising which can not
be communicated in a short letter to the
press, but will have to be proven by expe-
rience.
	What will become of the rising genera-
tion of this country if industries are not
prepared for them?. Mr. Peter A. Dron-
bay of Pine Canyon has connection with
French mulberry seed raisers, and can act
as agent to import all the seed needed; if
arrangements are made with him. The
late Mr. Bertrand wrote much on the silk
business, it remains for others to carry it
out in practice. I have written this arti-
cle for those who want information, hoping
they will be benefitted by it. To export
our silk is unwise, it can be manufactured
at home, and will be a source of profit and
will result in much good to the community.
