			HOME AFFAIRS.

	Forty-Sixth Annual Conference, of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
convened in the New Tabernacle in this city
on the morning of April sixth 1876. There
were present, President Brigham Young,
Daniel H. Wells, several of the "Twelve"
and most of the other presidents and counsel-
ors of quorums of the church. It was an unu-
sually large conference and the ceremonies
preaching, praying and singing were excellent
and in direct correspondence with the spirit of
reformation and HOME-MANUFACTURE. Presi-
dent Young in addressing the people, urged
them to live their religion, to observe the laws
pertaining to the kingdom of God, and espec
ially to exert themselves to aid in building the
Temple. There were many excellent sermons
preached and much instruction given by the
Twelve, and other Elders, some of whom had
just returned from missions. Conference
adjourned Sunday evening the 9th of April and
until the 6th of October 1876.
	MR. P. S. Gilmore's band performed in the
theatre Wednesday evening Apr. 12, and in the
New Tabernacle Apr. 13, in the afternoon.
The concerts were decidedly the finest ever
given in Salt Lake. Programmes varied and
extensive. We have neither space or ability
to enlarge upon this subject. They drew full
houses and were thoroughly appreciated. Mr.
Levy the cornet player, cannot be surpassed.
The bewitching and fascinating music he pours
forth is something really wonderful. This
"troupe" is the finest trained, and surpasses
any other of the kind in America. Their ser-
vices are secured for the Centennial Exposi-
tion.
	THROUGH THE courtesy of Mrs. W. East, we
received the news of the sudden death of Mrs.
Diana Greer Camp, who died at the residence
of her daughter, Mrs. Ellen Greer, in Bosque
Co., Texas, while absent on a visit to her
friends in that vicinity, on Saturday the 18th,
of March, 1876. She left this city in company
with Mr. and Mrs. East, well and in good
spirits Nov. 8th, 1875. On the journey, and
during her stay in Texas, she was full of faith,
and bore an earnest testimony to all she met of
the Gospel, and departed this life in full faith;
her only regret being that she must die far
from her home, from those she loved, and the
faithful Saints. The day previous to her death
she had been assisting at quilting, and retired
to bed in her usual apparent health. She awak-
ened the family at eleven o'clock and died
about two hours after, peaceably and without a
struggle, her friends for some time thinking
her asleep. Previous to her death she exhort-
ed her children to gather with the Saints, and
prepare for the resurrection of the just.
	Deceased was born at Sumner Co., Tenn.,
Nov. 28th, 1806; emigrated to Nauvoo with her
husband and family in 1843, where she em-
braced the Gospel, and was baptized by Elder

[Column 2]
John Taylor. She leaves quite a large family
of children and grand-children to mourn her
loss.							COM.]
	POWER EXPLOSION: Wednesday, April 5th,
1876, will probably be ever memorable in Salt
Lake City, as a day of fearful disaster. Shortly
before 5 o'clock p. m., the magazines on Arsen-
Hill exploded, with three tremendous shocks
shaking the whole city and country for miles
around. The first not wholly subsided before
another and still louder noise followed, and
quickly following a third still louder and hea-
vier shock came. People rushed wildly in
every direction, teams ran hither and yon, the
largest and strongest buildings swayed to
and fro, ceilings fell, doors were burst from
their fastenings, glass flew in all directions.
In the upper wards of the city, showers of
rocks, large and small, and other material de-
scended, crushing through roofs and plough-
ing into gardens and streets. Many women
fainted, and even strong men were horrified,
but providentially only four lives were taken
of which any positive knowledge has been ob-
tained. The victims of the catastrophe were Mrs.
Mary Jane Van Natta, of the 19th ward who
was pumping water at the well, when a bould-
er struck her in the back, killing her instantly,
horribly crushing and mangling her. The rock
had been thrown at least three quarters of a
mile from the magazine. A boy three years and
a hal[-] old in the 20th ward, James H. Radden
was struck by a rock and instantly killed. The
two boys who were killed near the spot, and the
firing of whose guns it is supposed was the cause
of this lamentable affair, were Richardson and
Hill, the former, the son of Dr. Darwin Rich-
ardson deceased, and Mrs. Grace Richardson of 
14th ward, was 18 years of age. The other
was the son of Archibald and Margaret Hill,
19th ward, 16 years of age. The bodies of these
boys were blown all to pieces, and the parts
have not been all found as yet.
	Charles Johnson, 19th ward, Mrs. PeterThomason, 20th ward, Mrs. Dahlquist, 19th.
ward, were severely injured, but not fatally.
David P. Kimball's (18th ward) little boy had
the tip of his ear taken off by a piece of rock.
	We have not space to give more particulars,
but the damage cannot be accurately estima-
ted: most of the loss was in glass—many large
French plate glass windows being destroyed in
many different public and private buildings.
	It is greatly to be hoped that this fearful oc-
currence will cause people to reflect and not
only make them cautio[-]s in the use and stor-
age of powerful inflammable materials; but, al-
so to prepare themselves for whatever exigen-
cies future life may bring. This wonderful
catastrophe is at present the general topic of
conversation, and probably will be for some
time to come.


