EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have just returned from a very pleasant
trip to Spanish Fork, and thinking some items
might be interesting, I have endeavored to pre-
sent a few of the main incidents of my stay
in as brief a manner as possible.
	The first thing that attracts a stranger's at-
tention is the length, North and South, of the
village. But the houses in the main, look
clean and comfortable. We were very hosipt-
ably received and entertained by Mrs. Rochill;
but I discovered that one of my friends was
there, also, on a visit to her mother. So, as she
pressed me very kindly to go and stay with
her, I changed my quarters.
	The next day being the Sabbath, we pre-
pared to attend Church. I was quite agreeably
disappointed in finding so nice a meeting-
house. You enter quite a roomy hall and go
from there either up to the gallery or in the
main part of the building. It is finished off
very neatly and prettily on the inside, and
speaks very highly indeed for the taste and en-
ergy of the inhabitants of Spanish Fork. The
singing was excellent, and the preaching good.
In the evening we attended and listened to a
most stirring and eloquent sermon from a
young Elder.
	Next day we attended the regular weekly
meeting of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Society which was well conducted by Miss
Maria Finch, (the Pres. Miss Warren, being on
a visit to Springville.) The house was tolera-
bly full, and there seemed to be an earnest
thoughtful spirit prevailing. Several of the
brethren met with the sisters that day, and
Bro. Wilkins gave them some excellent in-
struction. They have a weekly paper, and the
one I heard read was a fair specimen of intelli-
gence. One of the young ladies reads a chap-
ter from the Book of Mormon, and then ex-
plains it according to her ideas. The young
sisters seem to realize to a great degree the im-
portance of the work they are engaged in.
	I received numberless invitations to visit the
different families, and most heartily thank all
the friends I made while there, for their
kindness and hospitality to me. Charlie was
always ready to take us in his two-seated
buggy, and I appreciated his kindness thor-
oughly; while I think I never have met with a
more sociable and cheerful people. Bro. Cor-
naby kindly took us to see his bee-hives,
showed us the inside of one and pointed out
the queen. He also initiated us into the sys-
tem of silk raising, and kept us supplied with
honey all the time we were there. He and
his lovely wife, the gifted poetess, entertained
us so well, that we were loth to leave a home
where peace held such dominion. May Heav-
en's choicest blessings rest on that refined and
gentle couple.
	I must also mention Mrs. Morey and her
daughter, and can truly say that they are two
of the most accomplished hostesses I ever met.
	One thing especially I noticed in this settle-

