			WALES FOUNDED.

	FEBRUARY 7, 1301.—Llewelyn, the last
native Prince of Wales, had been a partizan
of De Montfort in the Barons' war against
Henry III., and although he was included
in the pacification made in 1267, it was ac-
companied by the condition that he should
do homage for his principality to England.
Accordingly, when Edward I. became king
he was summoned to do so, but he declined,
unless he had hostages given for his safety,
saying that he remembered the fate of his
father, Griffin, who had been imprisoned in
the Tower, and was killed in trying to make
his escape. The demand was treated as
an insult, and Eleanor de Montfort, who
was about to marry Llewelyn, was seized
and imprisoned, although she was the
king's cousin. Llewelyn in vain offered a
ransom for her; his lands were declared to
be forfeited, and after a brief campaign, in
1277 he was obliged to submit. Having
formally surrendered all his territory except
the mountain regions of Snowdon and the
Isle of Anglesey, for which he was to pay
an annual tribute of 1,000 marks, his bride
was delivered to him, and he returned to
Wales; but made to bear the oppressions of
the royal officer who had been put in pos-
session of his lands. He took up arms in
1282, destroyed some of their castles, and
carried off Roger de Clifford, the justiciary,
who died a prisoner in his hands. He also
inflicted a severe defeat on the English
forces as they attempted to cross the Con-
way, but was soon after betrayed to the
Marches, and killed in cold blood. His
brother David, who attempted to continue
the hopeless struggle; had to surrender, and
was condemned as a traitor and executed,
September 20, 1283. He and Llewelyn
both left motherless daughters, who were
sent to a nunnery in Lincolnshire, where
Llewelyn's child at least was alive in 1327;
how much longer is not known.
	Soon after the execution of David, the
victor held a parliament at Rhuddlan, where
was enacted what was called the Statue of
Wales. After an acknowledgement of the
Divine providence that had now given him
in full possession what had always right-
fully been his, the king, "at the prayer of
his loving subjects," allows them to retain
their ancient laws in civil causes, but sub-
stitutes the English criminal law, and ap-
points sheriffs, coroners, and bailiffs for the
greater part of North Wales; the rest of
the country after some strong towns had
been taken from them, was left in the hands
of the Lords Marchers, who from the time
of William the Conqueror had been en-
gaged in one ceaseless course of aggression
on the Welsh, and thus were far more
odious to the people than the royal officers
themselves. They were, in fact, an object
of jealous suspicion to the king, and he
built many strong castles in Wales, at Caer-
narvon, Conway, and Harlech in the north,
and Cilgarran and Carphilly in the south;
and settled English Colonists in several of
the towns, quite as much as a check on
them as on the natives.
	The king set to work to conciliate the

[Column 2]
people through their clergy. He bestowed
marked favor on Anian, a bishop, who
gave him a piece of "the true cross," and
paid considerable sums to churches that had
been plundered during the war; he also
granted freedom from tolls throughout his
dominions to several of the chief towns. But
in spite of these advances, an insurrection
broke out in 1287, and though it was soon
put down and the leader (Rhysap Meredith,
of the old princely line) hanged, Edward
thought it wise to let the valor of the
Welsh exhaust itself in his foreign wars;
thus anticipating the policy of the elder
Pitt with the Highlanders. Other mon-
archs followed his example, and even as late
as the time of Elizabeth, the "Welsh foot"
bore, as a separate body, no inconsiderable
part in the English armies.


