			MOTHER.

	In the 20th chapter and 12th verse of Exo-
dus, we read the following words: "Honor
thy father and mother that thy days may be
long in the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee." This commandment the
Lord gave to Moses and his people and it is
just as obligatory on us to-day as it was in
the days of the children of Israel. How of-
ten I have noticed and heard remarked that
people who are raised in the old countries,
are well grounded in their parents faith,
they are taught in their early youth to be
obedient to those who may be placed over
them, this is indeed an example that we
ought to follow and practice.
	Sometimes I think we mothers are sloth-
ful and careless in performing our duties to
the little ones given in our charge; if we do
not teach them to be obedient and to
reverence the Lord's commandments, while
they are young, how can we expect that
when they are grown to riper years, they
will practice that which they have never
been taught? Does not the Scriptures say,
"Train up a child in the way it should go,
and when it is old it will not depart from
it?" We ought to teach our children the
ten commandments, the Lord's Prayer and
the principles of the Gospel as we under-
stand them; and everything that will bene-
fit them in after life and not leave every-
thing to be taught at schools.
	If children could but realize the blessings
they would reap and the happiness which


their parents would feel when they were
obedient to their wishes, there would be
none but would try and cultivate the spirit
of obedience. Where can we find a more
beautiful picture than an obedient child;
they carry a good influence with them
wherever they go, and are almost always
happy. The Lord said "I come unto thee
and bless thee," and He will come unto
those who serve Him and keep His com-
mandments.
	What do we see of those who are disobe-
dient, it is the reverse in all respects; they
carry pain instead of pleasure, and have a
heavy heart under a reckless exterior.
Nine cases out of ten where you may try
and counsel for their best good, they will
say "I don't care." How many men and wo-
men are there to-day who could tell us the
foundation of their troubles in life have
arisen from the simple words, "I don't care"
and from disobeying their parents in the
days of their youth?
