SMITHFIELD MARCH 1st, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONEMT
	A reorganization took place in our Re-
trenchment Society Feb. 12, 1876. Bishop
Samuel Roskelly and a few other brethren
met with us, organized the society and gave
us some very good instruction.  Officers as 
follows:
	Mrs. Adeline Barber, President,
	"	Jane S. Coleman,
	"	Mary J. Roskelly,
	"	Elizabeth M. Merrill,
	"	Mary E. Morriston,
	Miss Mary A. Thomas,		Counselors
	"	Emily S. Lutz,
	"	Rebecca Roskelly,
	"	Annie Smith,
	Sarah E. Layton, Secretary,
	Janet Hendrickson, Treasurer,
	Our former Treasurer, Miss Mary Cole-
man, was released to go on the Arazona
Mission. There are 118 members in our
Society. We have made a nice crochet bed-
spread to send to the Centennial; we also
have a considerable amount of straw and 
have commenced braiding. We hold our
meetings weekly; one week to work, the 
next to instruct each other; a good spirit
prevails, and all seem to be trying to im-
prove. Our resolutions are as follows:
	1. Resolved: That we attend our meet-
ings as regularly as possible, not allowing
any trifles to keep us away.
	2. Resolved: That we will not counten-
ance any rude or unlady-like conduct in
any of the members of our society
	3. Resolved: That we will not associate
or keep company with young men who
swear, and drink liquor.
	4. Resolved. That our clothing shall be
the workmanship of our own hands, as 
much as possible, and not follow the extrav-
agant fashions of the Gentiles.
	5. Resolved: That we will not scandalize
a person's character; if we cannot say any-
thing good, we will say nothing at all.
	6. Resolved: That we will be kind and 
charitable to the poor and the needy, and to 
all with whom we are surrounded.
	7. Resolved: That we will strictly ob-
serve the "Word of Wisdom, that we m[-]y
be entitled to the promise attached to it.
	8, Resolved: That we will read the rev-
eleations and commandments given to the 
Saints, and the promises attached to those
who prove faithful.
	9. Resolved: That we will attend to se-
cret prayer, and try to be useful members
in the Kingdom of God.
