FLORAL HINTS.

	INSECTS IN PLANTS:—To prevent insects
from troubling plants, take one ounce of
carbonate of ammonia, one half ounce of
sulphuric acid, and mix together, (this forms
sulphate of ammonia) then add one drachm
of creosote and put all into two gallons of
rain water; pour into each pot about one
gill once a month; this keeps them from
the roots besides being a good manure.
Once or twice a week give the plants a
thorough drenching with luke warm water,
which keeps them from the leaves, it also
washes off the dust which is sure to accu-
mulate; keep the earth loose in the pots,
and occasionally work in a little powdered
charcoal, or leached ashes, but only occas-
ionally. Saturate sponges with water and
stand them on plates around and among the
window plants. This will supply moisture
to neutralize the effects of any furnace or
grate heat.
	The cultivation of the Cactus is in gener-
al very easy; any common soil with the ad-
dition of sand, broken brick or gritty stone,
to keep the soil open with a good drainage
for the pots, and careful watering at all
times; the plants suffer more from too much
water than if allowed to become dry. All
the different species of Cactus, are natives
of arid soil; with scarcely an exception, if
allowed to become quite dry in winter, a
temperature just above freezing will do no
injury: many of the large species require
no water for several months in winter; if
grown in a low temperature; these will
usually flower in the summer.
	The variety of Cactus bearing pink flow-
ers, grows rapidly, blooms profusely, and
can be set in the cellar during winter, and
repays one abundantly for all trouble; for
soil for the several varieties, use well rot-
ted cow-manure, dry it and pulverize it,
pound up a brick very fine, add some sand,
and the dirt from old sods, and they will
be very sure to succeed; it is a plant that
will bear a great deal of neglect.
	THE cultivation of the violet is similar
to that of the strawberry, if the violets are
planted in rows and ridged up a little they
will grow luxuriantly and bloom more
abundantly, It is well to set out fresh beds
of them every year, the suckers can be re-
moved early in the spring, when the old
plants are in full bloom, and these beds will
blossom all the winter. If the locality is
very cold they will require some protection,
from the frost, and the beds should be cov-


ered with a frame and sash, and well pro-
tected by mattings and banked up with sta-
ble litter. Violets can be grown in pots,
and brought into the house when they are
covered with flowers, but they will not live
long in a furnace-heated room or where
there is much sunlight, only sufficient
warmth to keep them from chilling is need-
ful for their growth.


[Column 1]
	THE ENGLISH PRINCIPALITY OF
