				THOUGHTS.

		"Our early days!—How often back
		We turn on life's bewildering track
		To where o'er hill and valley, plays
		The sunlight of our early days!"

	In looking back over our past lives we see
many bright and happy periods, sunshine
and rainbow hues, and tints and shades of
loveliness, and glad hours of joy and rest.
We cannot help contrasting these with the
time, the place and the happy moments;
the friends of other days, the places we oc-
cupied together, the studies, the amuse-
ments we shared, the scenes of beauty we
admired—all these throng the minds with
their accompaniments, and we pause and al-
most hold our breath, as we wonder where
are they now? Those friends of the past,
the companions of other days who strolled
with us through the grand old forests, and
sat beside us on the mossy rocks under the
shade of the graceful bending hemlocks,
and the grandeur of the giant elms: buoy-
ant and gay with hope in the spring-time
of life, when all the world seemed glowing
with enthusiastic aspirations which emana-
ted from the fresh fountains of our own Joy-
ous hearts. Then we saw only the beauty,
the sweetness of life, the honied odor of
the morning fragrance; the rosy tints of the
rising dawn, and we gazed in awe and won-
der, while around us the morning light en-
circled in a mellow halo all that we held
dearest and best.
	This is the season which best represents
the entering of the soul into that ideal life,
before the hard realities burst in upon us,
in the blaze of meridan splendor. Wel-
come fresh d[-]wy and propitious Spring!
We hail thee as the harbinger of the prom-
ise of plenty and comfort. With thy ap-
proach comes the soft and tender touch of
zephyrs, the harmonious songs of birds, the
hum of myriads of busy insects, the chirp of
the cricket, the ploughman's whistle, the
morning song of the laborer, the trill of the
flower girl. These melodies are wafted by
thy balmy breath, O glorious Spring! These
rambling thoughts bring back to us, the
very hills we climbed in merry pastime,
with the bright sky beyond, which we
could almost fancy rested on some towering
mountain in the distance, and our young
tender minds could scarcely conjecture the
great and sublime mysteries which involve
life and destiny. Every returning Spring
brings with it some of the pleasing hopes
and dreams of childhood. Alas! Only in rec-
ollection.
	When the mind and body seem exhaust-
ed with the continued exertion of striving
against cold and inclemency, and these
sunny hours inspire them with their recur-
ring freshness, we seem to grow even
younger, and all our faculties are quickened
under the genial influence of the warmth,
radiance and friendliness of the beams
of the Sovereign planet of the Universe.
	Who has not felt the invigorating influ-
ence of the beginning of Spring? The faint
silvery warblings of the thrush and song-
sparrow, heard over the dreary and almost
bare fields, the cooing of the song-birds for
their mates; these musical notes fall on the
ear with a peculiar and significant pathos.
The very brooks sing gay carols and joyous
glees, as they leap and bound over their
shining pebbly beds. The melancholy frogs
croak more cheerfully and incessantly at
the water's edge, and the sound is almost
welcome as it fortells the coming of the
beautiful virgin, whose approach is herald-
ed with verdure, buds and blossoms. The
whole earth seems to partake of the silent
language of nature, and everywhere bursts

[Column 2]
forth in harmony to the time, and with sym-
pathetic chorus joins in the universal glad-
ness which ascends to heaven in one grand
anthem of rejoicing from meadow, grove,
mountain and forest, from all animate and
inanimate creations.
	Methinks I hear some prosy, matter-of-
fact practical people, as they glance casu-
ally at this, exclaim, this is a hackneyed
subject, a very school-girl's strain—and
why not, must we forever be stretching our
ideas, and reaching into the abstruse regions
of reason and philosophy—the mind must
sometimes rest itself with happier topics,
what if it does float for a few short hours in
the bright atmosphere of dreamy fancies?
Solids cannot always be taken, there must
be some recreation of thought, or we
should be weighed down with the burden
of our heavy theories. When we have
strolled 'mid nature's bowers and drank in
the exhilaration of the freshening elemen-
tary compound, every faculty of mind seems
braced and strengthened, and the vigor and
tone of our intellect simultaneously heigh-
tened.
	It is delightful to wander back in vision
to similar seasons in the "long ago;" to com-
pare the thoughts of other days with the
present, and trace in and out through the
intricate and elaborate windings, the rou-
tine of our lives from that early period, to
the one in which we now live and act.
	We are thus constrained to remember in-
cidents in which, a special Providence was
our only safeguard. It is good for us to
have these reflections, they teach us useful
lessons, help us to bear other sorrows
and perplexities, and give us faith in the
future, and simplicity of trust in that pro-
tecting arm that has shielded and comfort-
ed our hearts while resting under the dark
shadows of the clouds of human weakness.
We come forth in the Spring buoyant with
hope, gloom seems dispelled by the sun's
rays, the nurse of nature; and is he not a
tender and genial one? All things grow bet-
ter under his radiant influence.
	All who have been made to feel the icy
hand of winter cramping their freedom of
action and of purpose, constrained to find
resources of comfort and pleasure within
some certain circle of warmth, cannot but
realize a renovating reaction physically,
and mentally when the Spring puts forth,
and the young buds shoot, the grass springs
up in the meadows and lawns, and the
smiling face of nature cheers the dreary
landscape. The universal desolation of
Winter so affects the mind which sympa-
thizes so truly with outside influences that
it is almost as vacant of joy and bright ideas
as the forest is of leaves and the groves of
song. When April and May reign and the
shifting from Winter to Summer, we un-
consciously, momentarily give care to the
winds, and revel in the potency of the per-
vading stimulus of sunshine.

	"Day and the sweet approach of even and morn,
	And sight of vernal bloom and Summer's rose,
	And flocks and herds, and human face divine."

	The earth illuminated in beauty, and
smiling in joy at this season of the year,
proclaims with a language unmistakable the
love and tenderness of our Maker. The
sensitive heart is touched appealingly and
worships with renewed devotion that God,
who speaks to us in ten thousand voices
mingled in harmony. The universe is in-
deed God's temple, and He the reigning
Deity, and man should be the devout wor-
shipper. The soul that understands most
of light and intelligence, cannot but be a
true lover of nature's wildest and most pic-
turesque scenes. Every thing that has
life, evinces by its own peculiar instincts,

[Column 3]
the indulgence at these seasons, of nature
for her offspring. The young lambs frisk
and gambol in their hilly pastures, and the
herds of cattle scatter about in the mea-
dows, or lie upon the ground as if enjoying
the peaceful hours of tranquility. The sol-
itary places do not seem lonely, for the
world itself partakes involuntarily of hap-
piness and basks in the shining hours of
nature's luxury.
	Afar in the dim distance we see the glit-
tering peaks of the lofty mountains, and
we fancy they are deadly cold, and shud-
der as we view the almost immeasurable
heights of such dazzling whiteness, and we
can but compare them to those heights of
ambition so longed after by the world, be-
tween which and the aspirant for greatness,
lie the yawning gulfs, the unreliant chasms,
the terrible precipices, ridges and fields, all
of which must be passed to gain the cove-
ted heights. And when all has been ac-
complished perhaps bruised, bleeding and
torn the pinnacle of ambition is reached
and every obstacle overcome, we are no
more self helpful except from the experi-
ence gained, than if we had still lingered
in the valley below; we cannot live upon
greatness or brilliant attainments, only as
we assimilate them to the circumstances of
human life. Victory and power are only
beneficial as they subserve wise and judi-
cious purposes. Nothing can give us true
and lasting satisfaction and peace but the
triumph of correct and holy principles.
We are engaged in the great arena of the
battle of life; we want to maintain health
and self-possession equal to every emerg-
ency: and an intimate association with na-
ture often gives relief to the mind and
physical strength to the body. The constant
turmoil and excitement of a busy life, the
agitation of the passions, the various con-
tending influences, the rapid progress of
science, the spirit of individual ambition
and emulation, wear upon the organization
and produce a combination of circumstances
which make it not only desirable but nec-
essary that we should sometimes seek soft-
ening and peaceful influences. We need re-
pose of mind, and we find it in the haunts
of nature; the wooded glen, the shade of
the trees refresh us, the healthful breezes
cool our heated brows; the flowers cheer
and stimulate without excitement; the birds
sing to us and we catch the inspiration, and
our hearts drink in their simple melody.
The thin and flimsy partitions of conven-
tionalism crumble away in the grand and
mighty forests and wilds of mountain soli-
tudes, and the man of the world casts
aside inadvertently the garb of custom and
mingles with infinite delight and enthusi-
asm with the companionship chance throws
in his way. The barriers of society cannot
exist among nature's wilds; for the universe
has been given to the whole human family,
and under the broad canopy of heaven the
man of cultivation and the peasant are
equally pleased.
	Spring brings with it more definitely the
presence of life, for we all during the cold
winter months have felt an undefined
longing for fresh green nature; and so have
kept near us in our homes some green thing,
or even the magnificently-hued Autumn
leaves, to cheer and alleviate our sorrow for
the death and burial of the flowers. In
many countries the houses are ornamented
all the winter with trailing evergreens for
remembrances, and messages of promise of
the returning spring. To me this season of
the year seems Nature's holiday; all living
things rejoice and vegetation bursts forth
upon the world to gladden and adorn. The
spring time of blossoming has come, the


green grass is springing everywhere, span-
gled with dandelions and cowslips. In my
childhood at this season of the year we were
wont to ramble in the woods and hunt the
lily of the valley, and the early violet, hid
under the moss, and covered over with
snow; their perfume is delightful as they
are brought from their hiding place, so ar-
tistically has Mother Nature provided them
nurture.
	How competent is the great Author of all
to preserve intact the embryo blossom of
all varieties of vegetation, and we can but
acknowledge the mercy and tenderness
with which He has restored earth again to
beauty, which, while it elevates, refreshes,
invigorates and inspires, leads us to adore
the wonderful power which guides, controls
and animates all life and matter; and we
seem to form some idea of the perfection of
creation and the glory of Paradise. Indeed
might we with the author exclaim—"Fa-
ther, thou hast made all things beautiful in
their time."
							AUNT EM.
	Salt Lake City, April 10, 1876.


