Adoption of Children Mary L. Dillman Former Director, Relief Society Social Service and Child Welfare Department N the United States, throughout the world, and throughout history, the adoption of children by foster parents, by relatives, and by friends of the parents, and by strangers, has always had its place in the life of society. During recent years in this country there has been a tremendous increase in the number of adoptions carried on through the courts. Adoption has taken on a new importance in the welfare of children. The reasons for adopting a child are many and varied, and sometimes they are not clearly recognized by the prospective adoptive parents. Motives are often a mixture of emotions, conscious planning, self-interest, and altruism. The basic reason underlying many adoptions is that bringing a child into the home will make a richer and fuller life for both the parents and the child. 'There are persons who wish to have an heir to carry on their names or to carry on their special activities, or who wish to have someone to rely upon in later years; others feel the need of an interest in life or crave the satisfaction of expending their emotions on a child. Interest in a particular child or a child of a relative is another reason for adoption. Persons who wish to adopt a child should recognize their own motives and the possible effect of these motives upon the child. Consider, for example, those parents who desire a child to take the place of one they Page 664 parents. Have lost. Their expectation that the child will resemble their own in personality may lead to unfortunate comparisons between the two children. Parents who cannot have another child of their own may wish, through adoption, to provide companionship for an only child. Adoption should never take place unless the child is more than a means of meeting the needs of the adoptive A child is a person; he has needs of his own, and he has rights. In order to safeguard the welfare of the child, the rights of the natural parents, and the security of the adoptive parents, social agencies are set up and authorized by law to handle adoption. The legally authorized agency endeavors to set up every precaution to insure the welfare of the child. Adoptive parents are carefully selected and children are not placed in their homes until a complete investigation has been made, consisting of a visit to the adoptive parent's home, checking references, a doctor's statement, and a discussion of the motives and desires of adoption. Generally, agencies do not place infants in homes where the parents are over the average, natural, childbearing age, usually forty years of age. Experience has revealed that adoptions of infants in homes where the husband and wife are over forty are not as successful as where the ADOPTION OF CHILDREN couple is younger. Religious backgrounds are considered, and attempts are made to match, as nearly as possible, the physical characteristics and racial descent of the adoptive parents and the child. Agencies give consideration to the financial ability of a family to provide for the needs of a child. It is important that the standards of living in the home reflect an understanding of all the conditions that will affect the child's health—good diet, satisfactory sleeping conditions, proper medical care. The physical condition of the parents should be sound, and there should be no danger of the child contracting diseases from them. The greatest need of every child is for a home in which there is a normal mother and father relationship, and in which he may have the benefit of a real family life with its background of affection and understanding of childhood and its problems, behavior, joys, woes, and doubts. Every attempt is made by the agency to select mature, stable individuals capable of meeting the needs of a child. CHILDREN placed for adoption come from many sources. 'They may be children from broken homes, either by death or serious illness of one parent, divorce, desertion, indifference, or lack of willingness to accept responsibility. Some of the children placed by agencies are children of unmarried mothers. Such a mother may place her child for adoption because of her youth, her inability to provide financially for him, or fear that both she and her child will become social outcasts. Agencies assist the unmarried moth- 665 er to work out a satisfactory solution to her problem, either by helping her to keep her child and face the community pressures, or by placing her child for adoption. Most children who are placed in institutions or who are being cared for by agencies in foster homes cannot be adopted. They have parents or relatives who are not willing to give them up. As a rule, courts do not feel they can end the nghts of parents who do not want to give yp their children. Unless these rights are ended, agencies cannot place such children for adoption. Agencies are reluctant to place a child who has parents or relatives who may be able to take care of him. Often children removed from their homes because of neglect still have strong ties with their parents or with their brothers and sisters. It may be best for them to hold onto these ties. Some children are like plants, they can't be moved from place to place. When you uproot them they are unable to fix themselves in a new soil. | The waiting lists for children in agencies are long. 'The number of persons who seek to adopt a child is far greater than the number of children who can be adopted. Even after an agency accepts a home as good for a child, it may be months or years before a child can be placed in it. Doctors, lawyers, friends, and relatives too often by-pass the agency in placement of children and, hence, many children who should go through an agency in placement never reach it. Heartache and uncertainty for the adoptive parents often result from the independent 666 placement where no knowledge of the child's background or his physical or mental capacity is available. Take, for example, the tragic story of one couple who chose the easy black market way to adoption. This couple were physically unable to have children of their own. 'They heard of a person from whom, for a fee, they could receive a child for adoption. 'The couple contacted the person, paid their money, and received a beautiful baby. For a time they were extremely happy, but several months later they discovered a serious heart condition which medical science could not cure. The child died, and the adoptive parents were far more lonely than they were before receiving the child. An experience such as this could have been avoided if this couple had worked through a licensed adoption agency. DOPTION is a legal process and is, therefore, controlled by laws and procedures that are intended to protect both the prospective parents and the child. The adoption laws of many states recognize the importance of delaying the final adoption for a long enough period to satisfy the court that the adjustment is a happy one. It is frequently impossible to judge the mental capacity of a young infant, and this period, before final adoption, affords an