[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting]

Visiting Teachers Messages to the Home
Lesson 5 Obedience to Civil Law as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, February 2, 1943)
PATRIOTISM means loyalty to our country, not necessarily the country in which we were born, but that in which we make our home, whether or not we were born there. In the United States, for instance, hundreds of thousands of men and women have come here from other countries, and this is now their home. It is to the United States, therefore, that they owe their allegiance. If they are citizens, they have taken an oath not only to be loyal to this government, its constitution, and laws, but also to renounce all allegiance to the governments of their homeland. Now, the teachings of Christ always have been that members of the Church should be true to the rule of the country in which they live. The Gospel is a gospel of peace. Obedience to it brings happiness. But peace and happiness are incompatible with outward strife. "Honor the king," was Peter's advice to the Saints of his time. This is another way of saying that they should be subject to the government of their country. It does not, of course, imply that they had to approve of all that the king did and said. Jesus, when his enemies endeavored to trap Him into treasonable utterances, advised His hearers to "render unto Caesar that which belongs to Caesar." That is to say, He recognized the necessity for political government. Then, too, there is our own Article of Faith, which bids us to be subject to "kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates," in whatever country we may be living. In the Doctrine and Covenants 134:1, we are told that "governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man, and that He holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them." This statement means that whatever government one may live under should be administered "for the good and safety of society." In the United States there are federal, state, and local laws for its citizens to obey. These laws are made so that life may run more smoothly for us. All are made for the public good, health, and safety, and the least we can do is to obey them as our Church teaches. One can easily see what happens when traffic rules, for instance, are violated. The same thing is true of other laws.
Discussion
1. Why is it important to have laws regulating the milk and water supply, communicable disease, etc.?
2. What are some results of a disregard of traffic rules? How can women help enforce these laws?
3. Explain the statement, "He who keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land."