[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: In Retrospect - Chapter XI - My Mission]

In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman.
CHAPTER XI
My Mission

IT was my good fortune to have the opportunity and the honor of serving on a foreign mission (1936-1938) when I accompanied President Lyman to Europe where he was called to preside over the European Mission, and I was called and set apart to take charge of the women's work of the mission, which included that of the Relief Society, Y. W. M. I. A., and Primary Association. I have often expressed my gratitude to my Heavenly Father for this opportunity that came into my life to go into the mission field as a representative of His Church.

On the ninth of September, 1936, our fortieth wedding anniversary, we sailed out of New York Harbor on the steamship Manhattan, bound for England. Our party consisted of President Lyman and myself, our granddaughter, Amy Kathryn Lyman, and Miss Gladys Jenkin. Our room was a bower of flowers from friends. The trip across the ocean was very smooth. None of us was seasick. Our comfort may have been due in part to the medicine for seasickness furnished us by Dr. George W. Middleton, which seemed to relax and calm us throughout the whole trip. Six days after leaving New York Harbor (September 15), we landed at Plymouth, where we took the train for London. Arriving at Paddington Station at midnight, we were met and welcomed by President and Mrs. Joseph F. Merrill, of the European Mission, President and Mrs. Joseph J. Cannon of the British Mission, and a large group of missionaries.

We were guests of the Merrills at No. 5 Gordon Square until they left for home eight days later, at which time we took over the presidency of the European Mission and the apartment which the Merrills had occupied on the fourth floor of the Church building, which was to be our home all during our stay in England. This building consisted of five floors and a basement, and housed, in addition to our apartment, the headquarters of both the European and British Missions. We were thus closely associated the first year with President and Mrs. Joseph J. Cannon, and the second year with President and Mrs. Hugh B. Brown who succeeded the Cannons in the presidency of the British Mission. This precious association with these faithful, congenial, and outstanding leaders is one of the blessed memories of our missionary life.

With central heat in the building and radiators in each room, supplemented when necessary by small portable electric heaters, our apartment and our offices were always warm and cosy, a rare thing in England; in fact, it was said we had the warmest place anywhere in that country. As I am very sensitive to cold, I greatly appreciated this warmth. The cold there is damp and seems so piercing that one often has to go out of doors to get warm. No. 5 Gordon Square is only a few short blocks from the British Museum and from London University. Having been closely associated all my life with universities and university life, I felt quite at home being so close to this great temple of learning, and especially when I walked by the buildings and met great groups of students going to and from classes.

The European Mission is quite extensive, including twelve separate and distinct missions located in Europe, Asia, and Africa, as follows: British, Czechoslovakian, Danish, East German, French, Netherlands, Norwegian, Palestine-Syrian, Swedish, South African, Swiss-German, and West German. During our sojourn in Europe, I had the opportunity of visiting all but two of these missions—Palestine-Syrian and South African—and some of them I visited twice. In so doing, my travels covered portions of sixteen countries, in two of which—Italy and Yugoslavia—there are no branches of the Church.

OUR mission was a joy and satisfaction and an inspiration throughout. In the first place, every hour of every day there was the constant realization of our special calling and assignment, which was foremost in mind; and being far from home and from all local affairs and former personal problems, we were free to devote ourselves wholly to missionary work.

Second, there was association and close contact and regular communication with the able and faithful presidents of the various missions and their efficient and devoted wives. We met them at the annual mission presidents' conferences which covered ten days each year (in Paris in 1937 and in Copenhagen in 1938) where in faith and humility and with prayerful hearts the affairs and problems connected with our joint work were carefully considered. And we met them in their various fields of labor where, laden with responsibility and clothed with authority, we found them powerful but considerate and kindly leaders. This friendly, happy, and inspiring association was valuable to us beyond price.

In the third place, there was the close association and companionship with the missionaries, a large group of young men and women volunteer workers who were willingly making sacrifices and giving earnest, devoted service beyond measure in the cause of the Master. Their sincere testimonies often filled our eyes with tears of joy. There is nothing more soul stirring than the testimonies of the young missionaries of our Church.

Then there was our association and contact with the members of the Church, most of them converts, faithful men and women who had found out for themselves after serious and prayerful consideration and study that the restored Gospel of the Master is true, and that Joseph Smith was the instrument through which this restoration took place.

But the greatest blessing that came to us and to all the missionaries and Saints was the visit of our dearly-beloved President Heber J. Grant in the summer of 1937. While we had hoped and prayed that he would be able to come and participate in celebrating that great event, the one hundredth anniversary of the preaching of the Gospel in Great Britain, we could not feel sure of it until we knew that he had actually sailed. We had hoped, also, until the last, that Sister Grant would be able to accompany him, and were greatly disappointed that her health would not permit it. Then a few weeks after President Grant's arrival in Europe, we were further blessed in the visit of President and Sister J. Reuben Clark, Jr.

President Grant was accompanied to Europe by his secretary, Elder Joseph Anderson; his daughter, Lucy Grant Cannon, first counselor in the presidency of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association; President Ruth May Fox, and Counselor Clarissa S. Beesley, the other two members of this presidency; Elder Hugh B. Brown, who was to preside over the British Mission succeeding President Joseph J. Cannon, and a host of other brethren and sisters who under the management of Vida Fox Clawson came to attend the great British Mission centennial held July 20 to 24, 1937, to commemorate the introduction of the Gospel in Great Britain 100 years before. A later arrival was our genial and beloved general superintendent of Sunday Schools, Elder George D. Pyper. Another visitor from Utah who came a few weeks earlier to spend the summer as our guest was our cherished friend, the late Professor Alice Louise Reynolds.

A description of the British centennial celebration held in Rochdale would require a separate article. There were large meetings and a pageant held in the Rochdale Town Hall, a trip by bus to Preston where we visited old Vauxhall where the first Mormon sermons were preached, and to the River Ribble where the first baptisms took place. Here on the banks of the river a most inspiring service was held. One afternoon was devoted to sports under the direction of the M.I.A., including a baseball game between the Rochdale Greys (our missionaries) and a Liverpool team.

Arriving at Cherbourg, France, the last of June, President Grant was met by Elder Lyman and there began his tour of all the missions in Europe, where he held meetings and conferences, comforting, blessing, and inspiring the people with his great Gospel messages and his ringing testimony.

MY time in the mission field was devoted largely to the work of the women's auxiliaries, which work was carried on through visits, wherever and whenever possible, to missions, districts, and branch conferences, and through circular letters and regular correspondence. I found the women's auxiliary organizations in every mission in good working condition due to the careful supervision they had had in the past and to the faithfulness and devotion of local officers and members. I also found that the auxiliary organizations are a great blessing to the women and girls, furnishing opportunity for self-expression, spiritual growth, and for development and training in leadership. They are also effective agents in creating interest in the Church and in spreading the Gospel. Many converts first become interested in the Gospel through the auxiliary organizations.

I visited most of the Relief Society district conferences in the British Mission—in England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland. Some of them I visited several times. The first year, I accompanied Sister Cannon to these conferences; the second year, Sister Brown. We attended one general conference in Britain in addition to the centennial.

In so far as possible, I attended regularly the meetings of the London branches. Through this close association with the English Saints and through our speaking the same language, I came to know and understand them well and to love them dearly. I admired them for their courage, their faith, and their ability. They are good students of the scriptures and good public speakers. I loved to listen to their fervent testimonies and to hear their well-expressed and earnest prayers.

A never-to-be-forgotten automobile trip through Britain I made as the guest of President and Sister Clark, with Elder Parry D. Sorensen at the wheel. We visited branch meetings in England and Scotland, and because of our mode of travel we were able to see many places of historic interest enroute. A careful student of history, President Clark was able to guide us to these famous shrines. We rode through the English and Scotch lake districts and through some of the old historic towns, visited the old Sterling and Kenilworth castles and the cathedrals of Chester, Lincoln, and York. We spent a few hours at Ayre, the birthplace of Robert Burns, and at Milton's cottage at Chalfont St. Giles where the blind poet finished his great work, "Paradise Lost."

In 1937 we attended mission-wide conferences in East Germany and Holland, and in 1938 we made a tour of all the missions on the European Continent. The 1937 conference of the East German Mission was held under the direction of President and Sister Roy A. Welker, with over 800 in attendance. We were accompanied at this time by the general superintendent of Sunday Schools, Elder George D. Pyper. Between meetings we visited some of the chief points of interest in and about Berlin, including a trip to Postdam, the former home of German rulers, and attended a performance of the opera "Madame Butterfly" in the Royal Opera House. On a side trip we visited Eisenach, in which are found the homes of Martin Luther and Johann Sebastian Bach, also the castle of Wartburg where Martin Luther was imprisoned and where it is said he threw the ink bottle at the Devil. Here we saw his Bible and sat in his chair. On our boat trip down the Rhine from Mainz to Cologne we passed many old castles about which numerous legends have been written. At Cologne we visited the great cathedral, said to be one of the greatest monuments of Gothic art in existence.

President and Sister Alfred C. Rees were in charge of the East German Mission when we visited it a second time. Another outstanding conference was held, including special meetings for the auxiliaries. In Berlin, President Rees arranged to have both President Lyman and me speak before important civic groups. President Lyman addressed a luncheon meeting of the American Chamber of Commerce on town planning and numbering of streets, and I spoke at a luncheon meeting of the Carl Schurz Foundation on "Social Welfare Work in America." Named for Carl Schurz, a German-American scholar and statesman, this foundation is an organization established to promote friendly relations between Germany and the United States, and is housed in its own home, a handsome three-story building.

The dining room of this club was set with small tables at which over 100 guests were seated. The group consisted of city officials and heads of welfare agencies and institutions, other welfare workers, and newspaper men. Among them were representatives of the American Embassy, and an official from the German propaganda department. My address came first, after which there was discussion and the serving of refreshments. It was a very intelligent and interesting group, which made it difficult to close the discussion