[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: LiteratureProse Types in]

Literature The Bible as Literature Lesson 5
Prose Types in the Bible (Tuesday, February 16, 1943) (Class leaders should constantly keep in mind that this course considers the Bible - only as literature and makes no attempt at theological problems. ) Objective: To help the class members understand that the Bible is rich in popular types of literature, such as they read every day. Lesson Topics 1. Stories: The Creation, Ruth, etc. 2. Essays Stories Christ made frequent and effective use of stories in His teachings. By this means He made abstract ideas and the truths of His Gospel clear and concrete to His hearers. When a lawyer asked Him the meaning of the word "neighbor," He defined it by telling the immortal story of the Good Samaritan. He enforced the message of the Sermon on the Mount by the story of the Two Houses. ~ Stories in the Bible may be used for many purposes. The stories of Ruth, Esther, and Joseph not only entertain, but they give definite moral instruction. The story of the intended sacrifice of Isaac, told briefly, swiftly, vividly, teaches a lesson in obedience.; '. Many Bible stories were written to depict the moral forces of life which make for good or evil. They strike at the heart of a situation where right and wrong have been confused. Among such stories are Nathan's story to David, beginning, "There were two men in one city; the one rich and the other poor" (2
Samuel 12:1); and Jotham's fable, given to the men of Shechem, beginning, "And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of Mount Gerizin and lifted up his voice..." (Judges 11:7). As Robert Armstrong says, "Stories concentrate the flitting attention, and teach simple lessons through concrete images. 'They give experience in living."
Genesis is a veritable storybook for children as well as for adults. "The early chapters of Genesis," says William Lyon Phelps, "are a kind of outline of history, like that of H. G. Wells, only better written. The Bible account is sublime in its simple dignity, and begins in a reasonable and orderly manner, putting the First Cause first.... The story opens - like a great symphony: In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. And the earth was without form and void;...
These chapters form a prologue to the Old 806.  LESSON DEPARTMENT Testament, representing the essential points in the world's beginning prior to the call of the Chosen People.
Genesis presents a profound conception of the universe as a symmetrical evolution; every part of it emanantes from God.
Note the simple, forceful diction?'and the earth was waste and void.' Figures of speech abound: 'and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.. Two great lights; the greater light to tule the day and the lesser light to tule the night.' There is dignity in such phrases as: "There was evening and there was morning.' The very repetition is impressive as a sort of 'refrain. The Bible depicts God as. A supreme artist, and the first chapter of Genesis represents the artist in the full glow of creation."
Phelps further says: "The Bible is undoubtedly right when it represents the greatest of all artists looking on His creations with delight." The first chapter of the Bible, because of its profound subject and moving style, is superb literature. Not only are the events more amazing than anything ever experienced in human life, but the descriptions are vivid and beautiful. It is easy to project a mental vision from the graphic details given of any scene, as Genesis 2. One can see that pleasant garden with the river running through it. Mr.
Phelps sees a resemblance between the story of the garden and modern society.
Both represent the existence of sin and its punishment. The punishment, in the Bible, was not long delayed after Adam and Eve's sin was discovered. The con-. And God made 807 fession and the punishment are given in dramatic incidents which make a good story..
There is pathos in the banishment from the garden of Eden.
Nothing can be more tragic than to be forced to leave one's home forever. One can vaguely imagine the feelings of the contrite pair as they left their paradise and went forth into the wilderness to a new life. The Bible is full of such stories. The tragic experiences of Cain and Abel, of Noah in the flood, of Joseph, of Daniel, of Ruth, of Esther, of Josiah, show us characters in great crises. 'These stories are adaptable to all the purposes for which stories are used?to entertain, to instruct, to portray life, to move to action, to teach lessons, many of them performing more than one of these functions. The stories of Ruth and Esther both are models of literary art, almost perfect in atmosphere and feeling. In Jewish sacred writing, Ruth is classed with the third group of books in sacredness and value. It is one of the five books read publicly in the synagogues at certain sacred seasons, such as the Pentecost. The date of this story is thought to be the time of Ezra, when there was a severe rule regarding foreign wives. The story is valuable in that it gives an account of the ancestors of David; it likewise reveals the old custom of a man marrying the widow of a kinsman.
Armstrong outlines the literary structure of the story in seven scenes: 1. The famine in Judea, and Elimelech's family seeking a refuge in a heathen country. The marriage of the sons. The death of Elimelech and 808 his sons, leaving the wives in poverty. 2. Naomi's preparations to return to the land of her fathers. The different types of love shown by the younger women. Ruth's loyalty. The - arrival home. 3. Ruth, the gleaner, meets Boaz and wins his favor. 4. The home of Naomi.
Ruth is advised to work only in the fields of Boaz. 5. Ruth, following Naomi's advice, has an interview with Boaz, and he accepts his responsibility. 6.
Interesting customs at the city gate. The marriage.. 7. The home of Boaz. The birth of Obed brings comfort to Naomi. The plot is simple?merely scenes in the lives of ordinary individuals in a little town in Judea. But the skill of the writer makes them vivid and significant?even dramatic.
Particularly outstanding are the scenes in which Ruth declares her devotion to Naomi, the picture of the reapers, the wholesome relationship between Boaz and his reapers, the delicacy with which the unconventional incident at the threshing floor is treated.
There are no impossible situations, no unspeakable emotions, no invented characters, no sickly sentiment; all is simple and natural. It restores the past, presenting the quaint courtships and other customs of the olden times. We see Hebrew life in the time of the Judges.
This knowledge adds to our intellectual horizons. The book likewise has emotional and ethical values. It presents the moral forces of life so as to attract the reader to the beautiful and good.
Such a book as Ruth is immortal; "its charm increases as time goes on." The foregoing discussion of one of the prose types in the Bible is indicative  of the literary interest and value not only of the innumerable other stories, but also of the other types, of which space will not permit a full discussion. Essays Many sections of the Bible are very similar to modern essays.
They discuss topics either formally or informally, often revealing interesting facts about the writer's interests and tastes as well as giving information about the subject discussed. "The Glory of Wisdom" is the subject of an essay in Solomon 7. "The Search for Wisdom" is one in Ecclesiastes 7 and 8.
Ecclesiastes gives us essays on a great variety of - subjects, such as honor to parents, meekness, meddlesomeness, pride, good and bad women, the chastisement of children, the pursuit of wisdom, old age, riches, friendship. A few excerpts will indicate something of the essay style. The following is from The Modern Reader's Bible, page 986. It might be entitled "Tongues." A third person's tongue hath shaken many, and dispersed them from nation to nation; and it hath pulled down strong cities, and overthrown the houses of great men. A third person's tongue hath cast out brave women, and deprived them of their labours.... The stroke of a whip maketh a mark in the flesh, but the stroke of a tongue will break bones.
Many have fallen by the edge of the sword; yet not so many as they that have fallen because of the tongue. "Women, Bad and Good" is from Ecclesiastes 25, beginning line 16, p. 982 in The Modern Reader's Bible. I will rather dwell with a lion and a dragon, than keep house with a wicked woman. The wickedness of a woman changeth her look, and darkeneth her LESSON DEPARTMENT countenance.... A woman that will not make her husband happy is as hands that hang down and falsied knees....
Happy is the husband of a good wife; and the number of his days shall be two-fold....
Whether a man be rich or poor, a good heart maketh at all times a cheerful countenance.
Forceful diction,.
Balanced sentences, striking contrasts, effective figures of speech add interest to these essays on subjects pertinent to all phases of life. The Bible contains, besides stories and essays, many other interesting prose types, including orations, letters, sermons, etc., and, as has been said before, the book in its entirety is the autobiography of a chosen people. Lesson Helps 1.
Show the excellence of Bible prose by illustrations of forceful diction, emphatic and pleasing sentence structure, figures of speech, etc., from some story; such as, "The Boy King of Judah" (II Kings) or "The Woman Who Saved Israel" (Judges IV). 2.
Choose a story from the Bible and 809 analyze it as a piece of literature either for children or adults; such as, "Crime and Punishment" (I Kings 21) or "The Golden Calf" (Exodus ze). 3.
Select a group of short essays or epistles on charity, humanity, etc., and compare them in content, style, etc., with modern writings of these types. 4. The dramatic element of a choice story may be brought out by a dramatization of some of the scenes. References Moulton, Dr. R. G., The Modern Reader's Bible. Phelps, William Lyon, Human Nature and the Bible. McClure, James G. K., The Supreme Book of Mankind. Moody, D. L., Pleasure and Profit in Bible Study. Armstrong, R. A., How to Know the Bible. Baikie, James, Living Stories of the Bible (Illustrated). Beveridge, A. J., The Bible as Good Reading. Giddard, Grace H., and Baldwin, D. M., Types of Literature in the Old Testament.