[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Secretary-Treasurer]

Broadway, New York City. Page 783  FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for June 1942, page 420.
MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS
Spanish-American Mission (FE Paso, Texas ) ON the opposite page is a picture of a beautiful taffeta quilt made by the Relief Societies of the Spanish-American: Mission and presented recently to President Amy Brown Lyman as a centennial gift from this mission.
Each of the twenty-five white taffeta blocks is exquisitely embroidered in harmonizing colors with red and green predominating. The squares are set together with bands of red taffeta. The white strips at the top and bottom of the quilt are set between red bands, and the wider border surrounding the entire quilt is in a lovely shade of green taffeta. The quilt is lined with red taffeta. The following excerpts from a letter from Emma Haymore, president of the Spanish-American Mission Relief Society, describes how this unusually lovely and unique quilt was made: "A year ago in October, we started our project to teach Relief Society work and organize Relief Societies. In order to keep in touch with these organizations and to promote the work meeting, we sent out a small square of white taffeta. Each Relief Society embroidered a design typical of its race and people, with the name A RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBER AT LLANO, AND HER THREE CHILDREN Who walked over ten miles to and from Church to be at a conference. The young man is Elder Walkins, auxiliary field representative for the mission. Page
785 MEMBERS OF RELIEF SOCIETY AT CARLSBAD, NEW MEXICO of the Society on the block.
These were returned to me, and we sewed them together in a quilt using their national colors, red, white, and green. The red signifies the blood shed for freedom, the white for hope of the Mexican race, and the green for peace.
Some of our fine presidents who have helped with this project are: Sisters Wilson, Cuellar, Gallardo, Prien, Rico, Ruiz, Duarte, Bonilla, Muro, Hernandez, 'Trujillo, Garcia, Balderas, Maestos, Quintana, Gonzales and McGee. We hope you enjoy using this quilt as much as we enjoyed making it."
Some idea of the outstanding progress being made in this mission under the direction of President and Sister David F.
Haymore may, be obtained from the following paragraphs quoted from letters of June 20 and September 26, 1942 from Sister Haymore: "Our Societies now number 26, an increase of 17 in the 22 months spent in the mission, with 5 more preparing?one in San Antonio, one in Brownsville, one in Eagle Pass, Texas; one in Canon and one in Artesia, New Mexico.
With these completed, we will have one new Relief Society for each month we have spent in the mission. "We found during our tour that encouraging progress had been made in our Societies. At Carlsbad, New Mexico, where the Relief Society had died out some years ago, we now have 11 enrolled, and a sweet spirit prevails. (See accompanying picture.) I feel that the Singing Mothers' group has helped; they were all in costume.
Since our conference, there has been seven baptisms. At Llano, New Mexico, way up in the hills, we have eight members; six of these are converts whom we baptized before we organized on February 7, 1942.
When we called on Sister Quintana and her counselors to speak, they felt so humble they asked to be excused as they had had no experience in public speaking. I 

 ?NOVEMBER 1942 NOTES FROM THE FIELD took each one in my arms and lifted her to her feet and stood by her while she bore her testimony. I couldn't help thinking of Nephi's words?"The Lord God will proceed to do a marvelous work among the Gentiles, which shall be of great worth unto our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto their being nourished by the Gentiles and being carried in their arms and upon their shoulders...
Accompanying is the picture of one member who walked over 10 miles with her children to be at our conference. "The: Spanish-American people love Relief Society work. Sometimes Relief Society workers are welcomed in homes where the elders are not at first admitted. As the Prophet Joseph Smith said, "This work is according to their natures.' They value charity, as they have felt the pinch of poverty. The work meetings appeal to them, as they love bright-colored floss and laces; and the Singing Mothers, because their souls are filled with rhythm.
Their homes are filled with babies, and they do love to learn how to teach them after the gospel of intelligence enters there. "Our largest group of Singing Mothers is at-La Jara, Colorado.
Here we have 18. This Society of 21 is composed entirely of non-members.
They have two Church welfare gardens, and have earned their own money and bought the seeds to plant.
They have made two quilts and sold one for five dollars; they have done a lot of remodeling and are learning to pressure cook.
Their most recent achievement is the purchase of two small pigs, to which all the members give their scraps. The 787 fine thing about it all is that three or four have asked for baptism. 'The Relief Society is one of our best missionaries. (It was later reported by Elder Brockbank that three of these members 'were baptized August 23 mainly through the influence of the Relief Society.' ) "In May, La Jara, Manassa, Romeo, and Alamosa Relief Societies were organized into a district with Sister Nora Wilson, capable and lovely, as our district president.
This is the first district in Our mission, so we feel very proud of it. "In Houston, we have 15 registered Relief Society members who are non-members of the Church. We spent the centennial with them in March. The talks, songs, and stories were strictly Mormon, and the sisters expressed a gratitude to belong to an organization founded by a prophet.
These sisters are some of the best contacts our elders have, so says Elder Wade, the district president. Elder Hale from New Mexico reports: Our Relief Society in Canon is doing a great missionary work. We have made more friends and investigators through this than any one thing. "We could tell you something about each new and old Society, but this letter would grow long. "We planted a Texas variety of apple tree for our centennial tree. It resembles the Relief Society work in our mission, as it has grown a foot already and is spreading out in every direction. It is hardy, takes a lot of neglect to harm it, thrives in rocky ground and hard times, and is very long lived."
Her Majesty Queen Salote Tubou of Tonga and her husband, the Premier, with Evelyn H. Dunn, president of Tongan Mission Relief Societies. Navaho blanket is one presented to the queen by Elder George Albert Smith.
Tongan Mission
THE following very interesting letter from President Emile C. Dunn of the Tongan Mission describing Relief Society centennial celebrations was received in September 1942: "You no doubt know before now that Sister Evelyn H. Dunn is in New Zealand, and we do not know how long she will be compelled to stay there. She has, however, been keeping in touch with the work in Tonga by mail, and she translates and prints all of the lessons and instructions for the Relief Societies and Primaries of the Tongan Mission, and sends them to us. "More than a year ago we organized the districts with an independent president in each district who has the Relief Societies and the Primary Associations of the district in charge. This has proved to be a wonderful help since Sister Dunn had to leave, and she sends her instructions to each of them direct, which they carry out. "We miss Sister Dunn this year inasmuch as it was to have been a special year for activity in commemoration of the founding of the Relief Society. The sisters are trying hard to do everything they have been asked to do each month, and they have accomplished a lot of good. Special centennial services were held March 17 and 24 and April 6, in the three districts in connection with the district conferences. At each conference an entire day's program was conducted by the Relief Societies. I will relate briefly herein some of the things which took place at the meetings. "The Togatabu District Relief Society meeting commenced at 10 A.M., March 17, with Sulia Tuikitei in charge. Her Majesty Queen Salote Tubou had been invited to attend the service, but due to illness she sent her regrets and asked us to for-
 ?NOVEMBER 1942
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 789
This picture shows part of the people attending the Haalaufuli Relief Society centennial feast, April 6, 1942.
give Her Majesty for not being able to attend. The large Tongan thatched-roof house in the nutmeg grove was full of eager people, and although the meeting continued for two and a half hours every one sat quietly and enjoyed the songs, poems, and speeches rendered by the Relief Society sisters. Sini Afimui, the first president of the first Relief Society organization of the Togatabu District, was present and spoke, as well as reciting a poem which she had composed especially for the occasion. A feast was held at noon where everyone enjoyed the finest food the country can produce. A large cake with one hundred candles on it was placed high above the other food, and the candles were lit. While they were burning, the crowd of six hundred people sang: 'Come, Come, Ye Saints,' and the nutmeg grove rang louder than it had ever done before. Tongan dancers entertained during the feast, and some customary short speeches were given. "The Relief Society took charge of the evening session of conference with a continuation of the songs, speeches, and poems. Each branch of the district had prepared two new songs, and every one of the sisters was asked to compose a poem. Not all of the poems were rendered, but all of the twenty-eight songs were heard during the two Relief Society sessions, and they were enjoyed very much. "The Relief Society day at Pagai Haapai was one of the most spiritual gatherings that I have ever witnessed. Mele Sisi Tubou was in charge. Mission Relief Society secretary, Teini Hettig and Sulia Tuikitei, president of the Togatabu District Relief Society, were present and spoke. "The wife of the governor, Lea Ae Fa, with her spokesman, and the wife of the police magistrate, Temeleti, attended the feast which was held at noon. Jiake Lolohea, who was the man who helped to establish the Church in Haapai, attended the feast and spoke to the people. I think this was one of the most
790
orderly feasts I have ever seen held in Tonga. Mele Sisi Tubou, president of the Haapai District Relief Society, took charge. "The afternoon session commenced at 3:30. Again we had a good time with the Relief Society?laughs and tears and everyone wide awake. "The next morning we planted three trees on the front lawn of the Pagai Branch lot. Appropriate songs were sung and a short speech given by President Emile C. Dunn. The trees were planted by the presidents of the three branches of the Haapai District. "The Vavau District Relief Society conference was held April 6 at Haalaufuli, Vavau, with district Relief Society secretary, Ana Harris, in charge. She had everything very well arranged, and the Saints were prepared to have a day of celebration.
 
Sisters Sulia Tuikitei, Mele Sisi Tubou, Teini Hettig, and Ana Harris were the main speakers at the forenoon session. Their songs and poems were very well rendered. The district Singing Mothers sang very well. President Dunn spoke at this session. "At noon a sale of mats, which had been made by the sisters, was held, and $30 worth of mats were sold in a very few minutes. At one o'clock a very delicious dinner was served in Tongan style to seven hundred people. This was really the most elaborate feast that has ever been served by the Church in Tonga. After all had had all they could eat, there were 120 bola left to divide among the people for supper. The feasts given for President David O. McKay and Elder George Albert Smith were not more than one half as elaborate as this feast.
RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS OF THE TOGATABU DISTRICT AT MAKEKE, MARCH 17, 1942 The six seated in front are: Galu Taufa, Hola Fagubo, Sulia Tuikitei, Relief Society president, Togatabu District; Teini Hettig, mission Relief Society secretary; Sebiuta Lolohea, and Besileui Ogo Niu.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Dancers at Relief Society centennial celebration, Haalaufuli, Vavau, April 6, 1942. Left to right: Olotonui Finau, Amelia Ofa, and Selu Fetuu, all of Haapai.
"The people had prepared so many Tongan dances and lakalaka that they asked me to let them have the entire afternoon to show them, so they started at 2:00 o'clock and at 5:30 they had several left to show, and they had not given the same one twice. I am enclosing some pictures of the dancers and part of the crowd who witnessed the dances. I was thrilled through when I watched thirty M Men and thirty young ladies, not one of whom uses tobacco or any kind of intoxicating drink, every one of them Latter-day Saints; and their eyes sparkled with glee and their actions were that of refinement as they rendered one of the most beautiful Tongan lakalaka I have ever witnessed. "The wife of the governor of Va-
791
vau, Mrs. Tuna Ulukalala, attended the evening session of the Relief Society conference, and she very graciously accepted an invitation to speak. She spoke of the fine work which she had noticed that the Relief Societies of Tonga are doing, and encouraged the sisters to do their best because they are members of a wonderful organization. "After two hours of meeting, the evening session was turned into a social evening and the remaining songs, speeches, and poems, as well as the remaining dances which had not been shown during the afternoon, were rendered. "Thus closed three very successful Relief Society conferences in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary of the founding of the Relief Society. The history of the founding of the organization was well given in all districts. The history of each branch of the Tongan Mission with the names and dates of the first Relief Society organizations and their presidents and secretaries were well given, and we feel that all has been done to bring to the mind of the Saints the real reasons for the Relief Society organization. "I am enclosing a few pictures of the different groups which attended some of the meetings and activities so you can more fully appreciate the good time we had together, although we were without our mission Relief Society president, Sister Evelyn H. Dunn."
Tahitian Mission
VENUS R. ROSSITER, president of the Tahitian Mission Relief Societies, in a letter dated August 17, 1942 and received by the General Board October 13, wrote as follows:
792
"The lessons for the 1942-43 season arrived by the last boat from America, also copies of the May and June issues of The Relief Society Magazine, which we were very happy to receive. "Our sisters were very much enthused about our centennial programs, and are clamoring to do something similar each year. In the Papeete Branch, a program was given consisting of special vocal and instrumental music, and three interesting talks on the organization and accomplishments of the Relief Society... The history of the Relief Society in the Tahitian Mission... And... The history and accomplishments of the Relief Society in the Papeete Branch.... This was followed by a buffet luncheon and display of handwork at the mission home. For next March 17, we hope to present a dramatization of the first meeting of the Relief Society. "The sisters of the Papeete Branch have recently completed crocheting very attractive curtains for the mission home, and are now crocheting covers for the pulpit, sacrament table, and the piano in the meeting house. From Tubuai, the Relief Society sent a number of very finely-woven panama hats to be sold in Papeete, from which they realized four dollars apiece."
Palestine-Syrian Mission
FOLLOWING are excerpts from a letter from Elder Joseph Uzanian, presiding elder of the Beirut Branch, recently received by Elder Thomas E. McKay, assistant to the Council of the Twelve, who is in charge of the European missions of the Church: "We receive some of the Church
 
publications you are sending, and by reading them we understand something about our Church, and especially we received the 112th Semi-annual Conference Report, and we are exceedingly glad for it. Would that we had a chance to attend a conference like that! From it, we are receiving a lot of information and advice to the Saints here in Beirut. The lessons sent by President Amy Brown Lyman for the Relief Society sisters were translated and delivered to the sisters. We get a lot of benefit from studying them. We receive a lot of lessons and high ideals. We also were exceedingly glad to read the report of the one hundredth anniversary of the Society. "At present my thoughts are over there, and I pray that in another year we will have peace with us. "Because of troublous times, the members are closer together. I am visiting them regularly and continuously and strengthening them in their faith, and I perceive that their troubles are so much that it is sufficient; nevertheless, they are firm in the faith and are trying to live saintly lives."
Brazilian Mission
THE following letter from Amelia W. Bowers, recently released as president of the Brazilian Mission Relief Societies, was dated February 12, 1942 and reached the General Board May 26, just a few days before Sister Bowers herself called at the office upon her return from this mission: "The year of 1941-42 has been successful in the Relief Society work, and the yearly bazaars were held as usual in the districts of Sao Paulo
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 793
Officers of Joinville Branch Relief Society and, at right, Amelia W. Bowers, president of Brazilian Mission Relief Societies. (Picture taken in October 1941.) Note Relief Society motto and placard bearing slogan, "Members Old and Members New?100,000 by '42." The monogram FHV encircled by the motto is the abbreviation for Frauenhilfsverein, which is the German word for Relief Society. These posters were displayed throughout the mission at all meetings during this conference tour.
and Joinville. The needy poor have been cared for and a good healthy spirit prevails in each branch of the districts. "We sincerely regret the closing of our German meetings which includes the Relief Societies, which closing was necessary because of national decrees issued this last month. Our branches were preparing for the March centennial and had plans well under way; but these have been abandoned, and plans may be made to hold our programs in Portuguese. The pity of it is that so few of our members and friends speak and understand Portuguese, so it will fall upon the few who can to carry on, with the help of the elders. "As a souvenir of the one hundredth anniversary, a cookbook is being assembled and now will be translated and printed in Portuguese with the hope that everyone will enjoy it just as much as possible. We also intend to have special membership cards containing the Relief Society motto, for our faithful members. Other plans are being held in abeyance, awaiting future developments.
DISPLAY OF HANDWORK AND OFFICERS AT 1942 ANNUAL BAZAAR OF JOINVILLE DISTRICT RELIEF SOCIETY, BRAZILIAN MISSION
DISPLAY OF HANDWORK AT ANNUAL BAZAAR OF SAO PAULO DISTRICT, BRAZILIAN MISSION, 1942
MEMBERS AND VISITORS AT CENTENNIAL PARTY AT WAIEHU BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, MAUI DISTRICT, HAWAIIAN MISSION
 ?NOVEMBER 1942
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
"Our plans for the future of the Relief Society embrace the idea of teaching the members enough Portuguese so that they can understand the Gospel at least. "We regret the present conditions and will start to rebuild our organization using the Portuguese language, and we will continue the work, a work to which our faithful have been true and which they shall greatly miss until they again meet in Relief Society meetings."
Hawaiian Mission
ELDER JOHN D. STEWART very kindly sent the accompanying pictures taken at the Relief Society centennial party of the Waiehu Branch in the Maui District of this mission.
British Mission
THE centennial of Relief Society was appropriately and extensively observed in the British Mission, according to letters and reports received from both Acting Mission President A. K. Anastasiou, and Marie W. Anastasiou, president of British Mission Relief Societies. Preliminary to the celebration, the mission Relief Society board reproduced and sent to all of the 71 branches of the British Mission, "A Song of Triumph," one of the official centennial songs, and two plays and two pageants sent by the General Board. The mission board recommended that Tuesday, March 17, and Sunday, March 22, be devoted to Relief Society centennial programs in each branch. A suggested program for local observances of the centennial was published in the Millennial Star for March 5, 1942, and
795
included on March 17 the planting of a Relief Society centennial tree (preferably the British Oak), a play, pageant, or social evening, and a luncheon or supper. The Millennial Star also published a suggested program for the time of the sacrament meeting on March 22 which was made available to Relief Society and included appropriate hymns and addresses.
Comprehensive releases relating to the centennial and the work of Relief Society were prepared and issued in advance of the centennial to the various newspapers.
Immediately after the anniversary date, President A. K.
Anastasiou wrote on March 20 as follows: "On the occasion of our centennial celebrations in the British Mission, we have circularized the British press as per copy enclosed herewith, and hope that we shall receive a good response.
There has been a marked change for better in attitude with respect toward the Church by the British press during the past two years. "Last Tuesday we celebrated the centennial observance of the organization of the Relief Society at the British headquarters at Ravenslea. A cherry-blossom tree was planted by the sisters and dedicated by the mission president. The program consisted of two pageants and a play, which we were happy to receive from your good offices. Our membership is increasing very noticeably, and the dues are coming in almost daily. The sisters are responding to our call very splendidly.
Refreshments were provided for about forty people last Tuesday, and the whole program was one of inspiration and great joy, especially to the women of our branch. "We anticipate receiving reports from the branches of the mission and hope that they will indicate the celebrations held were as good as the one which we had the pleasure of participating in here in London. "We have faith to carry on our Relief Society work and build up our Church through the Relief Society in the British Mission. Sister Anastasiou and her counselors join me in expressing the joy in our hearts for this great occasion and in sending love and affection from the Saints of the British Mission to the Saints in Zion."
This letter was accompanied by the special centennial issue of the Millennial Star, dated March 10, 1942. The front cover was printed in blue and gold, Relief Society colors, and contained the pictures of Emma Hale Smith, the first president of Relief Society, and Amy Brown Lyman, present president. The back cover featured the proposed Relief Society centennial memorial.
This issue contained a prize centennial poem by Rose N.
Munton of the West London Branch, pictures of the mission Relief Society board, a brief history of the British Mission Relief Society, a prize centennial story by Ethel Bailey of the Sheffield District, an editorial by Marie W. Anastasiou, mission Relief Society president, message from British Mission Relief Society supervisors, and other appropriate articles and greetings.
Subsequent issues of the Millennial Star have contained accounts of the Relief Society centennial celebrations in various parts of the British Mission, including interesting reprints from various newspapers.
MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS' BANQUET OF THE ARGENTINE MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY, BUENOS AIRES DISTRICT, DECEMBER 1940 In the foreground is seen the oldest mother, who was born one month before the Mormon Pioneers entered the Salt Lake Valley.
 ?NOVEMBER 1942