Centenary of Relief Society, p- 11 et passim a In Retrospect (Continued from page 769) or to Oxford where American - Rhodes scholars are found, or even to beautiful and picturesque Edinburgh, the home of Scott?all easily accessible from London. Our visit to Oxford as guests of Chauncey Harris, a Rhodes scholar, and Meredith Wilson, a student at London University, both former students of the Brigham Young University, was chaise and interesting. To missionaries, whose first duty is to their special calling, there is not much time for sightseeing, but it was customary for us in the British Mission to have a few hours of 4 recreation weekly, when we tried to spend the time profitably.
Release from. A mission brings mingled feelings.
There is naturally joy in the thought of an honorable release to return to home and family; but there is, at the same time, regret at having to leave faithful friends and co-workers who have become so dear, and the familiar field of labor where some of the most soul-stirring and faith-promoting events of a lifetime have taken place. We sailed from Europe in September 1938, leaving countries overhung with war clouds and overwhelmed with anxiety. "SHALL THE YOUTH OF ZION FALTER"
817 SHALL YOUTH FALTER? (Continued from page 755) Most parents are willing to make sacrifices as long as it is necessary if they feel that it is in the interest of their children. One of our chief troubles is that in trying to "be good" to the children we sometimes do things and grant them privileges that pamper and spoil them rather than develop strength of character. I am reminded of the good woman who came to Court and asked for help in controlling her sixteen-year-old daughter. She said she had worked and slaved all her life for her child; she had washed the dishes, scrubbed the floors, done the washing, and taken care of the.
Cooking and housework so her child would not have to do so. She said she had worked hard all her life, and she was going to see that her daughter did not have to work as she had done. Now her health was failing, and when she asked the girl to assist with the work, she refused. The girl was staying out late at nights and going with undesirable companions, and she refused to listen to the advise and counsel of her mother and had now reached the point where she deliberately disobeyed her. The mother said she loved her daughter dearly.
That was easy to understand, since love is based on sacrifice and service. But the question was asked, "What had the girl done to cause her to love her mother?" If our youth are to be expected to love their parents and to live up to the standards of the Church and to mature into good citizens, they must be taught from childhood those principles which tend to produce strength of character and loyalty to the family, Church, and community. It is said that a mother, after listening to a lecture on the rearing of children by a noted psychiatrist, went up to the doctor and told him that she was the mother of a five-year-old boy; that she wanted to put into practice what he had told her, and asked him when she should start. The doctor said, "Go home immediately and start to work, You are already five years late" starting the training program." The responsibility of parents in regard to rearing their children is set forth in the Doctrine and Covenants as follows: "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents... And they shall also teach their children to pray, and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D. & C. 68:25, 28) With the influx of population, particularly in defense areas, a more trying time is presented.
Many of the people do not have the same standards which we possess. Our association with them will either cause us to lower our standards to conform to theirs, or to stand out as an example to them of the finest type of young manhood or womanhood.
With the general lowering of the standards, due to the conditions 818 surrounding the war effort, it is going to be difficult for our youth to live up to the high ideals we expect of them.
They must be encouraged and strengthened by the older members of our group.
Parents and leaders must set proper examples in their living, both in what they say and do.
They must be examples in honesty, loyalty, and in clean and virtuous living. A greater effort must be made to keep youth in the home at proper hours with good associates, and engaged in wholesome activity. Our bishops and leaders of auxiliary organizations have a splendid  opportunity to provide a wholesome program of activity in wards.
These activities should be so attractive that young people will enjoy attending them. If strangers come to join in these activities, there can be little harm because of the proper influence that will encourage all to conform to our standards. If we, as adults, parents, leaders, and citizens, do our part well, the youth of Zion shall not falter. We can continue to sing the song: We will work out our salvation We will cleave unto the truth, We will watch and pray and labor, With the fervent zeal of youth. 113th SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE (Concluded from page 749) touching testimony was followed by a continuous stream of warm, heartfelt testimonies from all parts of the building until nearly four thirty in the afternoon when it was thought wise to adjourn the assemblage who had come fasting and praying in early morning to partake of the coming spiritual feast. It was a notable conference, the effects of which will be felt throughout the Church. It was another evidence of the vitality of the latter-day Kingdom of God, founded in truth. All who had attended left with strengthened assurance that the work established through the instrumentality of Joseph Smith is of God and the true way to happiness and salvation. The Saints everywhere will be anxious to read the full proceedings of the Conference.
These will be published in full in the November 1942 issue of The Improvement Era, and from time to time in the Church Section of The Deseret News. CHRISTMAS AT AUNT SALLY'S (Concluded from page 778) guests, and as Fanny proudly announced dinner, there was another surprise, for Mary's taxi was drawing up at the gate.
Then followed a third explanation of the letters, before they were seated around the candle-lighted table and Fanny's supreme attempt was rewarded by unanimity as to the perfection of her dinner. As her three children were leaving that evening, each fora different city, Bill said, "Mother, I had forgotten what a beautiful old place this is!" - Rose added, "Won't you please invite us all out next Christmas? I am sure our young people would adore it!" And Mary's parting words with her good-by kiss were, " I haven't seen you look so young and happy for years." "L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" In PRIVATE INDUSTRY or in GOVERNMENT OFFICES- ?you can serve better if you have been trained professionally for the job. Ee Ask for our "Bulletin of Information" L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City, Utah ATTENTION CHORISTERS "Messengers of Mercy" A Twelve Minute Cantata with Three Choruses "THRE "GALL" "THE MESSAGE" "THE CHALLENGE" Written for Singing Mothers in Three Parts by Minnie D.
Warner and Gladys Rich Suitable for all Relief Society Programs Single copies 50 cents each Twelve or more copies 35 cents each Order From MINNIE D. WARNER A SUBSCRIPTION TO The Relief Society. Magazine AS A CHRISTMAS GIFT will be a year-round reminder of your thoughtfulness. A special Magazine gift card will be sent to the recipient of gift subscriptions when requested. Price $1.00 per year.
Order from
GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28
Bishop's Building Salt Lake City, Utah NOTICE TO SUBSCRIBERS: When You Move... Send us your NEW address, and also your OLD address, giving both name and address as it appeared on last Magazine received. Notify us of any changes AT ONCE, so that no copies of the Magazine will be missed. Magazines which are not delivered because we were not notified of change of address cannot be replaced without cost.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
When Buying 
Mention Relief Society Magazine 846 20th St. Ogden, Utah 511-514 McIntyre Building U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690