[Vol29 | November 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Urgent Call for Howells]

Urgent Call for Nurses Counselor Marcia K. Howells HE demand for nurses is greater than ever before. We are officially informed that the Army and the Navy are calling for approximately 3,000 graduate registered nurses per month.
This is to meet the emergency of war. 'These are the nurses who will care for our sons, brothers, and husbands who are injured in war.
This call by the military authorities for nurses will create thousands of vacancies in hospitals and training schools. 'The sick among defense workers and civilians must also be cared for.
Never in the history of our country has there been such an opportunity for young women to equip themselves for a nursing profession and to serve their country as at the present moment. Any young woman between the ages of 18 and 35 who is a high school graduate in good health may begin her training at once, and soon her work in the hospital will relieve a graduate nurse to join the armed forces. No qualified applicant should be kept out of the schools of nursing because of the cost.
Already some money has been made available to aid women to obtain training.
Hundreds of hospitals are willing to pay student nurses while this valuable nurse training is being acquired. As a state of emergency exists, the usual training period of three years may be shortened. The nursing profession now, more than ever, offers a rare opportunity for service, advancement, and financial independence. The profession offers executive positions of importance for the ambitious girl.
There are many opportunities at the top, and nurses qualified for supervisory and teaching posts receive large salaries.
Nursing is one of the finest and noblest professions in which women can engage. It is indispensable to life itself. It prepares women to become better wives and mothers, increases their usefulness in community life, and now is critically needed by our country. "To serve your country in war and peace, become a nurse."
Women who become trained nurses are prepared to engage in one of the war's most vital activities; also they are better prepared to help in the reconstruction period after the war is over. The Relief Society has always been interested and helpful in recruiting nurses.
Before training in recognized schools of nursing became generally available, classes were organized by Relief Society to assist in nurse training. The General Board of Relief Society has in various ways promoted this vital activity. As a result, communities have greatly benefited. Now that the "National Nursing Council for War Service" is asking for 55,000 well-qualified students to enter schools for nurse training during the coming year, the General Board of Relief Society is eager to assist in making this need known.
Complete information may be obtained from local hospitals, from your State Nursing Council for War Service, or from National Nursing Council for War Service at 1790