A March Reverie
By Helen Evans
Young March came to me one day; it said: Oh, how I love the world, My frolic and fun are ne'er at an end Till my whole long month is dead.
To the feeble and old I am harsh, they say, For my winds are cold and skies oft grey; But I am youth with a carefree air And I laugh my whole time away.
Fair promise I bring sometimes, to you, Though my nature is fickle indeed; Oft I smile as the sunbeams dance And earth's new lease is built anew.
Radio's Debt to Farming
Whimsically speaking, radio owes a debt to farming. This debt is owed for a word that was borrowed?a word that radio today cannot get along without, a word that is heard daily by anyone who owns a receiving set. That word is "broadcast," or any of its various forms and derivatives.
The word 'broadcast,' as noun, adjective, adverb and verb, was in the dictionary long before the wonders of modern radio were realized. It referred, however chiefly to the sowing of seed in agriculture. As confirmation, consider this definition quoted from the pages of Webster's New International Dictionary, showing the early use of the verb "to broadcast:" "To scatter or sow broadcast; to disseminate widely;" and this definition of the adjective "broadcast:" "Cast or dispersed in all directions, as seed from the hand in sowing; widely diffused."
The definition of the modern practice of radio broadcasting is as follows, showing how the word has extended its meaning to the present specific use: "To send out from a radio transmitting station information, lectures, music, or messages of any kind by radiotelegraph or radiotelephone, for the benefit of an unlimited number of receiving stations."
The Grace of the Roadside Trees
By Bertha A. Kleinman
Let me rear by the side of the road, Where the press of life goes by? Not alone the walls of a fair abode To domicile such as I;
Let me rear a native cathedral aisle, With its arches flung to God, Where the leaves spray over the dusty mile And dapple the roadside sod;
Where feet that seek no hearth of mine May slow to their leisured ease, And hearts may lift to the throne divine For the Grace of the Roadside trees!
FIRST CALL for SPRING PLANTING
"The Sparrow"
By Leah Harrison
Start your planting now! O joyous little sparrow, He sings and shrubs, plants and flowers; if one set out now to give their root systems a chance to get well fixed in the soil by the early season rains. We'll be glad to advise you just which varieties to plant now. Phone us.
PORTER WALTON CO. Salt Lake City
He's happy though he's shivering The happy, live-long day.
It seems that he would scold The people who go grumbling
He feels, if he were human, He'd know a better way.
When Buying Mention 
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG"
THAT'S WHY WE SAY
"Buy Blue Pine Food Products"
and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money.
Scowcroft's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
RELIEF SOCIETY Books of Study for the 1930 LITERARY LESSONS
These Books Are Now Available
A Son of the Middle Border............$1.00 The Lost Commander.................... 3.00 Joaquin Miller........................ 1.75 Schumann-Heink (A new and cheaper edition).................... 2.50 Life and Letters of Emily Dickinson 5.00
Postpaid If Money Accompanies Order
Order Now
Deseret Book Company 44 East on So. Temple
"FOR THE ADORNMENT AND PROTECTION OF ALL SURFACES"
Bennett's PURE PAINTS VARNISHES ENAMELS
Bennett Glass & Paint Co.