[Vol32 | May 1945 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Page 278
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon DEAN Virginia Gildersleeve of Barnard College, sixty-seven-year-old American delegate to the United Nations Conference at San Francisco, holds the degrees of Philosophy of Literature, and, from three universities. Doctor of Laws. She has long been a close student of international affairs. She was present at the dinner at which President Wilson enunciated his Fourteen Points. She was active in the Commission to Study the Organization of the Peace, as also in the Association to Aid Scientific Research by Women, and in the American Committee on International Intellectual Co-operation. PARIS expects to lead the world again in fashions. Before all the Germans were driven out of France, forty style salons in the capital were presenting fashion shows. Women came to them on bicycles and shivered in the unheated rooms. THE First White House Conference on Rural Education has been held at the instance of Charl O. Williams, competent woman director of the Field Service of National Education Association. Fifty-two per cent of the Nation's teachers are rural. Their average salary is $967 a year. Per capita, Washington charwomen receive more than do 44,000 teachers. AFTER doing a magnificent job of flying  principally ferrying army aircraft  the WASPS (Women Airforce Service Pilots) have been disbanded. Though their work was one of the most dangerous kinds and required highly skilled women, they were never given military status as were other women's military organizations. SOMETHING Is Lost" a poem by Utah's own Christie Lund Coles, has been chosen by William Rose Benet for publication in The Saturday Review of Literature, a magazine which finds its way to all literary editors and writers. IRENE CURIE received, in 1935, jointly with her husband, Frederic Joliot, a Nobel prize in chemistry. For a time the Germans confiscated their Paris laboratories containing the gram of radium purchased for Madame Curie at the price of $100,000 by women of the United States. The laboratories were later returned. PEARL BUCK'S collection of short tales. The First Wife; and Other Stories gives a deep insight into Chinese life. IN America, 900,000 copies of young Betty Smith's A Tree Grows In Brooklyn have been sold. Page 279 


VOL. 32 MAY 1945 NO. 5
Relief Society Achievements 1944-45 THE month of May brings to a close the Relief Society educational season. In spite of curtailments and handicaps due to the war, the 1944-45 season has been a successful one marked by unusual development for Relief Society women and great accomplishment for the Society.
With few exceptions, high standards have been maintained in all phases of the work, and Relief Society workers may justifiably view this past season with satisfaction and pride. The General Board sincerely appreciates the efforts of Relief Society officers and class leaders as well as the strength of Relief Society membership. It commends each one for her devotion to the Society, for the time, energy, and ability she has given to the work, and for the part she has played in the growth and advancement of Relief Society. It recognizes the support Relief Society women have given to the war programs sponsored by the Society, and the service they have rendered in their respective communities. The elements which make any organization successful are good beginnings or a sound foundation, a purposeful and worthy program, a capable leadership, and a devoted membership. Relief Society has all of these. It was organized by the Prophet "under the Priesthood after Page 280 the pattern of the Priesthood." No more worthy objectives could animate any organization; namely, to develop its members spiritually and intellectually, and "to manifest benevolence irrespective of creed or nationality." For more than one hundred years the leadership of Relief Society, including the general, stake, mission, and local leaders, under the direction of the Priesthood has been sincere, energetic, capable and above average; and no organization could boast of a more devoted membership?