[Vol32 | May 1945 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Counselor Sharp]
Etta S. Robbins The sun looks down upon a world of strife That avarice and hate have brought about. The teachings of our Lord, who gave us life, From hearts of countless men are blotted out. The earth is reeking with the stench of war In air, on sea and land the din and fray Resound through waves of ether near and far, And mar the happiness of Mother's Day. Though muted grief, too deep for words or tears. Close tight the lips and bow the heads in prayer. The mothers of the land shall conquer fears. Their faith and courage shield from dire despair. Their all-enduring love touch hearts of men And help the balm of peace to flow again. The Cover: The cover "Peonies in May" is from a photograph by Thomas J. Howells, M. D.
BELLE SMITH SPAFFORD
Belle Smith Spafford Called to Be Ninth General President of Relief Society, April 1945
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor in General Presidency "O ye that embark in the service of God, see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day" (Doc. And Gov. 4:2). THE admonition of the Lord contained in the above verse of the Doctrine and Covenants, a favorite quotation of Belle Smith Spafford, has been heeded by her throughout life. This observance coupled with the manner in which she has developed her great capabilities in working for the Relief Society resulted in the call by the First Presidency, on April 6, 1945, of Sister Spafford to become the ninth general president of Relief Society.
President Spafford will be welcomed to her new position by a host of friends, members of the Relief Society throughout the United States and in the stakes of Canada and Mexico, whom she has met during the past ten years while she has traveled extensively in the interest of the Society. They will recall her affectionately for her friendly interest in regard to their special problems, and the ability which she has demonstrated in helping to solve them.
It was just ten years ago this April 1945 that Sister Spafford was called by President Louise Y. Robison from her position as counselor to President Marie Tanner of the Wells Stake Relief Society to become a member of the General Board. In December of 1937, she was asked to assume the added responsibility of being editor of The Relief Society Magazine, following the death of Sister Mary C. Kimball. During the eight years that Sister Spafford has edited the Magazine it has had a phenomenal growth in subscriptions  increasing from 40,000 in 1937 to 72,000 as of April 1945. The excellence of the contents has been of a high order which has steadily improved over the years, reflecting the advancement of the women of the Church in writing skills. It was in 1942 that a short-story contest was inaugurated by the General Board which has resulted in encouraging Church women to enter the field of fiction and improved the content of the Magazine in that line. As editor she has consistently manifested a great desire to meet first, the spiritual, and then the literary reading needs of the readers of the Magazine. When Sister Lyman was called to become general president, in 1940, she retained Sister Spafford as editor, and gave to her the added responsibility of serving as an editor of A Centenary of Relief Society published to commemorate the first hundred years of the Society. The knowledge gained from this experience has given to Sister Spafford a broad understanding of the rise and development of the Society which will prove invaluable to her in her new position.
