[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: NOTES AND NEWS. | Author: B. B]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	AT VENICE in Italy there is now a wo-
man's paper published, called the "La Donna."
Woman's education is scarcely begun there,
yet we find a frail, delicate, young lady of
twenty-three years, editing a paper, for the
improvement of her sex. Risen from the
people and self-educated, she has alone un-
dertaken something enormous in Italy.
She has met with success, and her paper is
widely circulated all over Italy—and she
also has lady contributors, active in promo-
ting the growth of her idea. Her great
wish is to establish an Industrial school for
young women, who are poor and will not la-
bor, and are therefore driven to degrada-
tion; an aversion to work seems inherent in
the character of Italian girls.

	A LADY writing to the "Woman's Jour-
nal" asks what the women of America are
doing that they may be heard in the cele-
bration of the "centennial." She says, not
knowing that anything has been proposed
by them, she would suggest that a Peace
Congress of the women of all nations be
convened at Philadelphia in 1876.

	ON THE arrival of the train from Rich-
mond, Va., at Alexandria, Friday morning,
it was discovered that ex-Senator Nye who
when last seen occupied a section in the
sleeping car, was missing, although his coat,
vest, watch, hat and boots, were still in his
berth. He was on his way north from Jackson-
ville, Florida, with his daughter, Mrs. Wal-
ler of New York, and servants, and retired
the previous evening in his usual health.
It was supposed he got up in the night in a
dazed condition and walked off or fell off
the cars while in motion. He was after-
wards found in the streets of Richmond,
Va., in nearly a nude condition.—Tran-
script.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


For the EXPONENT.
			OLD LETTERS.
Those letters! faded, worn and pale,
	  But yet how dear, how cherished still,
For in their folds, full many a tale
	  Of by-gone years, their pages fill,
Which bring to life, as once again
	  We read them o'er, mem'ry's dull pain.
They bring back youth, its love, its hope,
	  The visions of the shadowy past,
And as we trace life's widened scope
	  And backward glances hurrying cast,
We gather to our hearts as then,
	  The treasures that to us remain.
In living characters enshrined,
	  Feelings and thoughts are here portrayed,
Which speak the impress of the mind,
	  By friendship, or affection swayed,
True intuition of the time,
	  When we, and they, were in our prime.
We live again in fancy's maze,
	  Our vanished life, its sorrow, joy,
We scan it o'er with wiser phase
	  And all our faculties employ, 
Recalling friends and scenes of yore,
	  Garnered away in mem'ry's store.
Ah! heeded we the mute appeal,
	  Or thought of sympathy a need,
'Tis well! when anguish we may feel,
	  In vain ourselves, we shall not plead
For that true friendship which bestows,
	  An earnest care for other's woes.
Preserve these sacred treasures then,
	  A living flame of trust and truth,
In after years they bring again,
	  The rgace and sweetness of our youth;
Such messengers, no more to me,
	  Come freighted o'er so tenderly.
Ah! while we linger o'er each word,
	  To shapes of symmetry they're grown;
In fancy are those voices heard,
	  Each by a subtle influence known;
And now as then, the hours beguile,
	  With silent music, as erstwhile.
March 9, 1875. 
								B. B.
							E. D. Wells.


