[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 466 | Home | Social Relations — Preview of | ]
February 1968 SOCIAL RELATIONS Teaching the Gospel in the Home Preview of Lessons for 1966-67 Alberta H. Christensen @ The Relief Society course given at the third meeting of the month, will now be known as the Social Relations course. As the title implies, the lessons will continue to be concerned with human relationships that originate in the home and extend into areas of Church and community living. An important goal of these Relief Society lessons entitled "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" has been and continues to be the improvement of these relationships. Many of the Melchizedek Priesthood lessons have been directed toward bettering human relationships, and _ special emphasis, in some areas of the lessons, has been placed upon the husband-wife relationships. Sug- 466 gestions have been offered to help the father understand the desires, aspirations, and emotional needs of his wife and children. The Social Relations lessons will continue to correlate with the lessons currently being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood. In general, they will present the position of the woman in relation to those subjects with which they correlate. The objective will continue to be, through discussion and application, a cooperation and understanding that will result in more abundant living by Latter-day Saint families. Love and understanding not only enrich the lives of all family members, but may inject an element of good will into all other human relationships. Understanding and good will toward others are much needed in today's world of stress, skepticism, and mistrust. Lesson 6 (Lesson 18 in the Series), is entitled 'That All May Learn." We have been specifically admonished to teach one another the ''doctrine of the kingdom." Since the impact of words and the power of example are vitally important in the learning process, it is obvious that teaching may be accomplished in a number of different ways. That Latter-day Saint women may become aware of the means by which they may fulfill their role in accomplishing this divine admonition, is the central theme of the lesson; that they may be motivated to utilize these means, is the lesson objective. It has been an objective in the correlating Relief Society lessons and, specifically emphasized in lesson seven "'The Sensitive Line," to remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband, and in being sensitive to other human relationships. A woman's inherent sensitivity may lead her to a more gracious acceptance of a gift, whether it be a tangible article, or the less tangible but far more important gift of love and understanding. Relevant to the subject is the scripture "For what doth it profit aman if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?" (D&C 88:33). "From Virtue to Virtue" is the title of lesson eight, the final lesson for the year 1966. This lesson LESSON DEPARTMENT points out that we attain perfection by progressing spiritually, from grace to grace. As our faith deepens, we become more perceptive to things of the spirit; as our spirituality is increased, our faith is strengthened, becoming more positive as a guiding influence in our lives. The Melchizedek Priesthood lessons for 1967, "On Earth and in Heaven," will be concerned with various aspects of law. As it relates to the Priesthood bearer's position in the home, the Church, and the community. The remaining five Relief Society lessons of the 1966-67 Social Relations course will correlate with aspects of this proposed course of study. Means to promote thought involvement and verbal participation on the part of class members will be used, such as scriptural quotations, a conversation, a wellphrased question, a socio-drama, or a provocative statement, case stories, etc. If the class leader is imaginative, and uses these realistic illustrations wisely, she can add variety and interest to the class period and, through participation, to the individual class member, who will become: a partner in resolving some problem situations common to most of us. A case study often may cut deep into the core of a problem, revealing various aspects of a situation which would not be observed in a mere telling of the incident. Class members may thus be led to see more easily and to evaluate more wisely, their own similar situations. Lesson 6 (Lesson 18 in Series)—That All May Learn Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 


 Objective: To motivate Latter-day Saint women to fulfill their role in teaching one another ''all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God."' Lesson 7 (Lesson 19 in Series)—The Sensitive Line Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To remind a woman that she shares equal responsibility in making a satisfying and rewarding relationship with her husband, and in being sensitive to other human relationships. Lesson 8 (Lesson 20 in Series)—From Virtue to Virtue Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To point out that we attain perfection by progressing spiritually, from virtue to virtue.