[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 402 | General Feature | From Near | and Far]
[From Near and Far]

For a long time I have wanted to say thanks for our little Magazine which I enjoy so very much. I love the lessons, the stories, and the poetry. The Poem "On the Mountain" (by Melba S. Payne) in the March issue was especially thrilling because I could immediately recognize the mountains and I. The town the author wrote about. I feel that I must have grown up in the very same valley. June B. Jensen Orem, Utah I want to tell you how delighted we are with the Magazine. Each issue is even more beautiful and inspiring, and its arrival is eagerly awaited. The beautiful colored pictures add so much to the appearance, and the accompanying articles are well written. I particularly enjoyed the description of the ''White Sands"' (by Claire W. Noall, April 1966), and in memory relived an unforgettable afternoon our family spent there. In our stake we were thrilled with the lovely reproduction of the quilt made by Nellie H. Smith (March 1966). Sister Smith lives in the Eleventh Ward of Mesa Stake. Ada J. Jones President Mesa (Arizona) Stake Relief Society As a one-year-old convert to the Church and as literature class leader in our: ward, I realize what an important part our Magazine plays in my life and work. This Magazine is superb. I! Shall ever be grateful for its excellence of quality and the stimulating spiritual diet it provides. Its influence is apparent in homemaking and in studying, and it is invaluable in strengthening those ties of love and understanding which unite our sisterhood. The poetry delights me, the stories instruct and warm me. Rae A. Williams Avondale, Auckland New Zealand 402 er in my lovely home. I pray that our Thank you for placing the picture of the Ricks College Stake Relief Society Board in the March 1966 Magazine. At our stake board meeting last week, each member gave a personal experience concerning the. Picture. The college dormitory mother said. The girls flocked into her apartment to congratulate her on being in the picture. Many of the girls are going to put the picture in their Books of Remembrance. Another board member said that her friend whom she hadn't seen for thirty years wrote saying she had seen the picture in the Magazine. Lisle L. Andrus President Ricks College Stake Relief Society Rexburg, Idaho After reading the March 1966 issue of our Relief Society Magazine,.! Felt compelled to express my gratitude for th talents of its many contributors. I was especially inspired and motivated by the prize-winning story written by La Littke ('"'The Search for Katie''). It seemed to have been written as an answer to the anxieties of finding my present identity. As. A young mother, I, too, have been facing the same questions that Sister Littke wrote about; and, after her story, I feel satisfied and blessed with my role as wife and mothMagazine may. Continue to be a guide and inspiration to the women of today. Linda M. Staley Hunter, Utah A I have subscribed to The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and think it is the best little Magazine ever. I especially enjoyed the article 'Under the Surface."" by Ruth House in the December 1965 issue. She lives in our home town, so I felt I had a glimpse of home. Edith S. Marshall Holbrook, Arizona
