[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 447 | Home | The Gleaners (Millet) | Floyd Breinholt]
The Gleaners" by Jean Francois Millet (1814-1875) Louvre Museum, Paris, France Floyd Breinholt Assistant Professor of Art and Education Brigham Young University @ Jean Francois Millet was born at Gruchy, near Greville, France, of a peasant family and loved the earth in its calmest moods. He spent his youth working on the land. He is sometimes counted as a member of the Barbizon (a village in the forest of Fontainebleau, near Paris) group, who were pure landscape painters and discovered the intrinsic loveliness of nature. This painting certainly does not seem revolutionary to us today, but when it was painted, the artists in the academies felt that all dignified paintings should represent dignified personages, usually prominent in government, business, or holy writ. Generally, common working people were placed in paintings only when they were necessary to illustrate subject matter, not as subjects themselves. Jean Francois Millet was somewhat of a revolutionary in this regard. His paintings, of which "The Gleaners" is one of the best examples, seem to dignify work and the worker. There is nothing here of great and glorious acts or of important characters or deeds, only the simple, honest, down-to-earth feeling of security in the closeness to mother earth. The peasants are not graceful or beautiful, but are solid, deliberate, and placed below the skyline. They seem as if they are part of the earth. The arrangement and carefully planned rhythm and the way they are distributed give a feeling of poise and of solemn dignity. The artist makes the worker and the task of harvesting assume an heroic, wholesome significance. For Latter-day Saint women, "The Gleaners'"' imparts a particular interest, for the pioneer women also were "gleaners in the field." In a single year, from November 1876 to November 1877, the Relief Society sisters, at the request of President Brigham Young, had gleaned against a time of need, more than ten thousand bushels of wheat, and, over the years, the golden grain has become a symbol of thrift and security. Wheat designs form a decorative motif on the Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City.