[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 449 | Home | Home Is a Place for Handicraft | ]
[Home Is a Place for Handicraft]

She is mother to six children, grandmother to twenty-four, great grandmother to thirty-nine, and great-great-grandmother to two. JUNE 1966 German Holiday Buffet (Continued from page 444) Here are the bread recipes: DILLY BREAD Yield: one 1-pound loaf Oven temp. 350°F Container: 114 to 2 qt. Casserole Baking time: 40-50 minutes 1 cake yeast 2 tbsp. Sugar 14 c. Water 1 tbsp. Minced dried onion 1 c. Small-curd creamed cottage cheese 1 tbsp. Melted butter or oil 1/4, tsp. Dill willow 2 tsp. Dill seed 1 tsp. Salt.. 214-214 c. Flour 14 tsp. Soda 1 tbsp. Soft butter 1 unbeaten egg onion salt Procedure: 1. Soften yeast in 14 c. Water. 2. Heat cottage cheese until warm. 3. Place all ingredients in large mixing bowl, mixing the flour in. 4. Knead until well mixed. Let rise 1 hour. 5. Knead down and place in well-greased casserole. Let rise until double— about 74 hour. 6. Bake as directed. 7. Brush with soft butter and sprinkle lightly with onion salt. ALL-PURPOSE MIX (To be used in making the orange-raisin bread) 9 c. Flour (sifted) 1 tbsp. Salt 3 tbsp. Baking powder 14 c. Sugar (double action) 2 c. Shortening Add the baking powder, salt, and sugar into flour. Sift together three times into a large mixing bowl or into a large piece of plain paper. Cut in shortening with a pastry blender or two knives until the mix is the consistency of cornmeal. Store in tightly covered containers at room temperature. To measure the mix, pile it lightly into standard measuring cup and level off with a spatula. ORANGE-RAISIN BREAD Makes 1 loaf Oven temp. 350°F Baking time: 1 hour lf, c. Orange juice 1 tsp. Vanilla rind of orange 2 c. All-purpose mix 1 c. Raisins 14 c. Sugar 1 egg, well-beaten 14 tsp. Soda '7 c. Milk 1 eight-ounce pkg. Cream cheese Squeeze juice from orange and measure 14 cup. Remove most of the white membrane from orange peel. Grind peel in a food chopper, with raisins, using coarse blade. Add orange juice to the raisin and orange rind mixture and stir together. Add beaten egg, milk, and vanilla to the combined orange juice, raisin, and orange rind mixture, and stir until blended. Add the liquid mixture to the dry ingredients and mix well. Bake in a greased loaf pan, 9x5x3'', in a moderate oven (350°F). When cool, slice bread thin and spread with cream cheese. Slices can be placed together in sandwich style or left open faced. 


 QUICK SOUR DOUGH BREAD (made without a start) Makes 3 average-sized loaves Oven temp. 375°F Baking time: 30 minutes Combine in saucepan: 1 qt. Tart buttermilk 2 tbsp. Salt 6 tbsp. Shortening Bring to the steam heat only, then cool. In a 2-c. Measuring cup, combine: 2 pkqs. Dry yeast 5 tbsp. Sugar 14 c. Warm water 'By the time buttermilk is thoroughly cooled, the yeast mixtures will have grown enough to add to milk mixture. After mixing together, gradually add 10 c. Flour to give a workable dough. Put dough on a floured board. Knead 10 minutes. Let rise in original dough pan (saucepan) for 45 minutes. At the end of this time, punch dough down. Divide into 3 equal loaves and fit into 3 greased bread pans. Let rise again for 45 minutes. Bake as directed. Turn out immediately and cool on rack. (Brush with soft butter.) Sour dough bread is soft and pliable. You might enjoy pulling the loaves apart for eating, instead of slicing. (To be continued in the July Magazine) Our Special Garden Helen M. Peterson "Marriage is not a bed of roses!" I often heard my aunt say. "It is a garden filled with weeds and thorns!" I was only a child and could not comprehend the meaning of her words, but, somehow, they lived in my memory. When I grew up and was about to be married, those words mirrored before me again, and again. I found myself observing many married couples, and occasionally I'd get an inkling of what my aunt meant. But, it was not until after I was married that the true meaning of her words rang clear and meaningful. The first time my loved one and I had a misunderstanding, I thought the world would come to an end. When we showed signs of being inconsiderate of each other; when jealousy and selfishness appeared; when we spoke unkind words to each other—then I could see the weeds and thorns choking out the beauty in our "garden of love." It was then that I decided that we must make our garden a special garden, and we would have to give it special care. For twenty-five years now, my husband and I have worked hard trying to be good gardeners. We keep chopping the weeds away, and we take great care not to let the thorns grow long and sharp so that when they penetrate the flesh they become imbedded.