[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 468 | Home | Cultural Refinement — Preview of | ]
CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Textbook: Out of the Best Books Volume II: Home and the Family by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Preview of Lessons—1966-67 Elder Robert K. Thomas @ The experience of the last two years, during which literary lessons have been taken from material selected and published for the Relief Society, has proven so successful that a second book has been authorized. As the first volume focused on developing individual values, the second will center upon home and family. The principal objective of this course is the presentation of cultural and fine arts which will reflect and motivate the development of desirable attributes and characteristics to be emulated in the life of every Relief Society sister, that she may realize a cultural wholeness that will, in turn, be radiated in her home and benefit all members of her family. Although it is understood that the selection of cultural material will be in the area of Home and Family, the focus of this course of study during the next two years will be beamed toward the 468 growth and refinement of the individual woman. The critical approaches which were detailed in the first volume of Out of the Best Books will continue to be used, for their base is broadly cultural, and they are therefore appropriate to any artistic medium. Emphasis will still need to be given to literature, however, since not all lessons can be supported meaningfully by examples from the other fine arts. In response to repeated questions, the discussions which follow the selections in Volume II will go beyond providing necessary biographical information and brief critical analysis. As part of each section, if not always as part of every selection, there will be an attempt to suggest some vital issues which the material raises. Questions which may be used in class—or which may simply spark reader interest— will be part of the text. This is not to keep the anthology from speaking for itself. Class leaders and class members will surely be free to react individually, but directions can aid the inexperienced without coercing the expert. Each lesson will be centered around a desirable womanly attribute. Supporting material will attempt to illuminate each concept. In the first lesson, for instance, a series of selections will illustrate problems and possibilities in developing understanding. The special contribution of women to such development will be stressed, while, at the same time, keeping our concern family-wide. It is hoped that this approach may help Relief Society members appreciate the unique ability of culture to provide vicarious exLESSON DEPARTMENT perience and, thereby, give additional richness and depth to life. If all problems are finally theological, culture yet serves to sharpen our sensitivity, enlarge our sympathy, and refine our perception. In a very special and attractive sense it helps us to see the implications of our beliefs. When the Lord states, in Section 38 of the Doctrine and Covenants, that if we are not ''one"' we are not his, the context makes it clear that something more than unity of thought and purpose is intended. For the brief parable which precedes this statement stresses the necessity for completeness as well as harmony. Culture is a catalyst which aids us in achieving such wholeness. Lesson titles and objectives for the year 1966-67 are as follows: Lesson 1—A Candle of Understanding "Light a candle of understanding in thine heart.'' 2 Esdras Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: A woman of understanding tempers knowledge with compassion and sympathy with sensitivity. Lesson 2—Refinement Creates Beauty "Refinement creates beauty everywhere.'' William Hazlitt Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: A refined woman gives her home a sense of physical well-being and spiritual grace. Lesson 3—Humility Yields Strength "Humility like darkness reveals the heavenly lights.'' Henry David Thoreau Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: As she is teachable, a woman is able to help others become receptive to the inner strengths of meekness and gentility. Lesson 4—Time for Courtesy "There is always time for courtesy.'' Ralph Waldo Emerson Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: A woman should be respectful and considerate of other people at all times, but not to the point of compromising her own integrity or standards. Lesson 5—Diligence Ennobles Work "All things are won by diligence.'' Menander Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 Objective: In her own diligence a woman can help others appreciate the virtues which ennoble work. 


 Lesson 6—Virtue Nourishes the Soul "Virtue is the health of the soul.'' Joseph Joubert Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To show the beauty and truth of the statement ''Virtue is the health of the soul."' Lesson 7—Charity Out of a Pure Heart "The end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart.'' New Testament: Timothy 1:5 Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: Charity, or the pure love of Christ, distinguishes those who give—and those who receive—graciously. ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight Cultural Refinement (literature) lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each English-speaking stake and mission use the eighth Cultural Refinement (literature) lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Where the ward or branch class leader has not been able to present all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, she may also bring an unused selection from the text into her lesson.