[Vol53 | June 1966 | Page 464 | Home | Homemaking — Preview of | ]
It is expected that many of the techniques in the field of homemaking will be explained and demonstrated in order to help the Latter-day Saint woman make her home beautiful and to increase hcr desire to excel in the art of homemaking. The discussions for October, November, and December 1966, were written by Hazel S. Cannon. Beginning in January 1967, the discussions will be written by Celestia J. Taylor, a member of the General Board of Relief Society. M What a world of difference exists between a home where there is order and one where there is a disregard for it! This difference lies not alone in the appearance which an_ orderly house presents, but it lies, also, in the spirit which it engenders in those who live in the home and in those who merely observe it. A house in which are observed the simple rules of order and cleanliness gives to its occupants a feeling of well-being and pride of possession, and to its observers a feeling of admiration and respect, while a slovenly, poorly kept house may be conducive to 464 a spirit of dejection and, even, of contention. The husband who comes from his work to a home where order prevails finds rejuvenation to his spirit and refreshment to his soul. One who returns to a house of disorder and confusion finds no respite nor solace from his labors. The same is true of the effects of these respective homes upon a child. A In an age of conflicting ideologies in every avenue of life— political, social, educational, and even religious—it is comforting to know that emphasis is being centered in the home as a Sta- bilizing force. Give the statesman his oratory, the crusader his cause, the soldier his weapon, and the world can still be in turmoil; but give a woman her dust mop and a good stiff broom and she can sweep the world clean of its troubles. I This is just another way of saying that the strongest defense of any nation is its homes. When there is 'order in the home, there is discipline in the individual; and when there is discipline in the individual, there is order, integrity, and solidarity in the nation. The scriptures tell us that we are to put our houses in order. As a commandment as well as a safeguard, the maintaining of our homes in order and peace is LESSON DEPARTMENT paramount in importance. It should be the vital concern of all of us who are engaged in this great and world-wide business of homemaking. Whether we live in the countries of Europe, on the islands of the sea, in the Americas, or anywhere else in this wonderful world of ours, Latterday Saint women are all working toward the same goal—orderly homes which are conducive to peace and happiness, now and eternally. The purpose of the Homemaking Discussions for January to October 1967 is to give us practical instruction in the skills and procedures which will help us to bring about and maintain order in our homes and, consequently, in our lives. The titles and objectives of the discussions by Hazel S. Cannon are as follows: Discussion 10—Put Sparkle in Your Meals Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1966 Southern Hemisphere: March 1967 Objective: To show how the homemaker can plan, prepare, and serve nutritious and appetizing family meals. Discussion 11—Extending Homey Hospitality Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1966 Southern Hemisphere: April 1967 Objective: To discuss the joy which can come to a homemaker and her family through extending hospitality, and to show the role of food in entertaining. Discussion 12—A Happy Home Is an Earlier Heaven Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1966 Southern Hemisphere: May 1967 Objective: To summarize how the homemaker and her family can benefit through homemaking education and to reemphasize the objectives of the past year. The titles and objectives of the discussions by Celestia J. Taylor are as follows: Discussion 13—Wise Spending Brings Happy Ending Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1967 Southern Hemisphere: June 1967 Objective: To show how a budget sets up guidelines which help solve financial problems. Discussion 14—Budgeting for Young Married Couples and for Retired Couples Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1967 Southern Hemisphere: July 1967 


 Objective: To show that wise financial planning is helpful in all circumstances for all age groups. Discussion 15—Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1967 Southern Hemisphere: August 1967 Objective: To explain that credit wisely used can be a tool in assisting family income, but it can be a hazard to family happiness if over-extended. Discussion 16—Keeping Records Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1967 Southern Hemisphere: September 1967 Objective: To show the importance of keeping home management records. Discussion 17—Project Thrift Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To show that through careful planning and knowledgeable buying, a family can be clothed attractively with a limited budget. SUMMER MONTHS Sewing Course Northern Hemisphere: June, July, August, September 1967 Southern Hemisphere: November, December, 1967, January, Objective: To teach sewing skills.