Guide Lessons for September
LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in September) EXALTATION
1. The Exaltation of Place in the Universe. Theologically man and woman stand at the head of the intelligences of this planet. By divine fiat they are in dominion. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses, Chapter 2). But their dominion extends beyond this earth; it reaches out into the universe. The mind of man is greater than all the stars, for it can contemplate them, and they cannot contemplate it. Planets may come and go, worlds may be born and die, but the mentality of man is indestructible. The whole material universe has not the possibilities, wrapped up in it, that is possessed by one human soul, for it can learn and love and grow forever; it can give and increase by giving; thought and love, mercy and justice, all increase by being given. Suns become exhausted through the expenditure of light, but the longer the mind sheds light the brighter it becomes. We must part company with the learned Greek Sophocles who said, "Man is but breath and shadow, nothing more," and enjoy Shakespeare who exclaims, through Hamlet, "What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a God!" We cannot believe with Emerson that Man is a God in ruins, because of our acceptance of the revealed truth that man is a God in the making. This marvelous truth, coming to us through President Lorenzo Snow has become a Latter-day Saint aphorism, "What man is, God once was; what God is man may become." Man's prospective place in the universe is more than that of a contemplator of worlds, it is that of a creator of worlds. On one occasion, President Lorenzo Snow, visiting the kindergarten department of the Brigham Young University where the children were moulding in clay, took one of the mud balls from a child and holding it up said, "Children make these toy worlds now, some day they will make worlds like the one on which we live."
2. Man's Exaltation in Ancestry. We set aside as an unproved theory the alleged ape-ancestry of man, and hold fast to the divine declaration that our first ancestors were the direct offspring of the Gods. "So the Gods went down 
to organize man in their own image, in the image of the Gods to form they him, male and female to form they them." (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 4:27.) For the genealogy of the human family from Christ to Adam see Luke 3:23-38. There we find that Adam was the son of God. The appreciation of a high ancestral exaltation forms a foundation for faith in our possibilities, and inspires an ambition towards an ideality that reaches beyond mortality. Naturally the knowledge of noble ancestry produces a self-respect that will not degenerate into self-conceit.
3. The Exaltation of Increase. In the power to beget beings in the form and image of God is an exaltation near to that of creatorship. That parenthood which rises above mere physical progenitorship is one of the highest forms of exaltation for both the now and the hereafter. It is a glory of intelligences; it is founded on soul affinity, yearning for offspring and the approval of the Lord. In the exaltation of increase, attitude is fundamental. The desire for offspring is mental parenthood. There is real motherhood and genuine fatherhood in the yearning for children. The foster-parenthood of people who are denied direct progenitorship is so sublime that it may well be the foundation of high exaltation. In the economy of the spiritual universe no noble desire ever goes unrewarded. Desire for posterity is one of the characteristics of noble spirits. Among the seven great desires of Abraham was the desire for posterity, (see Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 1:2). One of the three great promises made to this "Friend of God" this "Father of the faithful" was the promise of endless increase. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham 2:9.)
4. Exaltation and Ordinances. Ordinances are performed as a part of the process of exaltation. They are expressive of order and the sharing of responsibility. A church without ordinances would be like a state without oaths of office, or business without formal contracts. Unless the words of Jesus are false, we must believe that the rejection of an ordinance is a bar to entrance into his Father's Kingdom. (See John 3:5.) Jesus performed the ordinance of ordaining apostles. (See Mark 3:14; John 15:16.) The whole career of the Savior indicates that he wasted neither time nor effort in doing the non-essential. The sealing ordinance is made one of the prerequisites to the highest exaltation in the world to come. Rejecting this ordinance
men and women cannot reach the destiny for which they were "added upon" or given the privilege of earth life. (Doc. and Cov. 132:19-20.)
5. Exaltation and Service. Our interest in God comes from a desire to express gratitude for superhuman help already received and our expectation of help yet to be given. Take away the idea of helpfulness, or service, and our conception of Deity as an object of worship is gone. Our Father in heaven has become what he is to us through his unselfish service to us. God has advanced to exaltation above all because he had done more than all for all. Jesus was working out something more than salvation while on earth. He evidently was on a mission of winning the souls of men through service. He already had a place in the Godhead, and possessed the intelligence necessary to the keeping of that position. He had the glory of individual intelligence and was working for the glory of intelligences. He said, "If I am lifted up from the earth I will draw all men unto me," and thus he would have the glory of not only his own intelligence but the glory of the recognition of other intelligences as their Savior-God. There can be no selfishness in a life that gives more than it gets even though it gets much. One who can meritoriously wear the badge on which is the sentence, "I serve," cannot fail of exaltation to the full limit of his righteous desires.
1. Wherein is man exalted above all the physical universe?
2. Why is a single soul of more importance than a whole system of uninhabited worlds?
3. Show that ancestral exaltation must be supplemented by individual effort to be of much value hereafter.
4. What desires must be behind the exaltation of increase to make it joy-giving and lasting?
5. Distinguish between self-respect and self-conceit.
6. What were the seven great desires of Abraham?
7. Mention the three great blessings promised by the Lord to the "Father of the Faithful."
8. What exaltation is impossible without the sealing ordinances?
9. Discuss the proposition: Ordinances alone cannot guarantee permanent exaltation.
10. Discuss: There are no loafers in Heaven.
11. Discuss. God exalts no one arbitrarily.
12. Describe progressive exaltation as presented by President Joseph F. Smith in Gospel Doctrine, pp. 85-86. 
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September)
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in September) JAMES FENIMORE COOPER
One of the first writers of fiction in America was Charles Brockden Brown. He followed the fashion of fiction then in vogue in England. Ghost stories and tales, making use of supernatural material, were in style. During his time and prior to it, poets of America were languishing for the mother country. It did not occur to them that the Hudson River was as worthy the poet as the Thames or the Avon, or that the birds that caroled in the interminable forests of America made as sweet music as the blackbird, the sky lark and the nightingale of England. We had to wait until the time of James Fenimore
Cooper for a break from the old world. Cooper gives us the life of the pioneer, in the eastern part of our country. He was born in New Jersey in the year 1789. His father was of English extraction and his mother Swedish in descent. Cooperstown, on Ostego lake, a very beautiful estate, was acquired by his father, William Cooper, for their home. This region was so primitive in its nature that the wild beast and the Indian were as yet its inhabitants. Soon the log house, their first dwelling, gave way to a rather ambitious mansion, and in time Mr. Cooper went to congress. All of his son's later experiences in the city, at Yale university, and in other places foreign to rural life, did not obliterate
the impressions that nature, in all its primitiveness and grandeur, had made upon his mind. He was dismissed from Yale, not because of any very serious escapades, but because he loved the out-door life very much better than class room exercises. His dismissal from Yale caused him to go on shipboard, as a sailor before the mast. There was no naval academy at that time, so that he had to take his training upon the ship. He visited London and Gibraltar, and on his return received a midshipman's commission. He gave up the sea at the time of his marriage, as his wife greatly preferred that he should spend his life with her in the country, to going to sea.
An odd accident changed the whole course of his life. One day, while reading a dull piece of fiction, he remarked to his wife that he believed he could write a better story than that. She dared him to try, and as a result he wrote a tale of English life entitled, "Precaution," which was very stupid for the reason that Cooper knew nothing of high life in England. He might have given up writing altogether had it not been intimated to him that he was very unpatriotic to choose an English theme for his first novel. This suggestion led to a second venture, which was successful. The revolution was a matter of interest to him, and so he chose Westchester county as his scene. He had heard John Jay tell the story of a spy who had served the American government most fearlessly and unselfishly. From this story he created the character of Harvey Birch, and thereby added a great character to the world's fiction. "A character," says Mr. Trent, "appealing profoundly to the general taste of the period for pathos and romantic contrasts." Mr. Pancost says of The Spy "that its publication was almost as memorable an event in our literary history as the publication of Irving's Knickerbocker History of New York." In a sense The Spy is a historical novel. The fact that it is Washington and no other with whom Harvey Birch has his memorable interview, undoubtedly adds to the charm and power of the book. Nevertheless, Cooper's knowledge of the type of man he was describing and the scenes in which the story was laid, had very much to do with it. A position as a man of letters was now won for Mr. Cooper. Before the year was over, he was known favorably in both England and France.
His next venture was The Pioneers, in which he described scenes familiar in his boyhood. Another venture was The Pilot. He had read Scott's Pirate and declared that it was written by a landsman, so he determined to write a sea tale that would reflect his first-hand experience of the sea. Long Tom Coffin and the pilot himself, and Paul Jones would alone have made the story noted, but to these was added the life of the sea, and in it Cooper did something that no other writer had really tried to do, thus giving America the distinction of creating real 
sea fiction. This year chances to be the centenary of the publication of both The Pioneers and The Pilot.
After Cooper's success with The Pilot which had made him something of a lion in New York, he turned again to the battleground of the Revolution and wrote Lionel Lincoln, or the Leaguer of Boston. This book has all the accuracy of detail characteristic of the modern realistic novel.
In February, 1826 Cooper gave to the world the best of all of his works of fiction, The Last of the Mohicans. As a story of thrilling adventure, it is worthy of high praise. Yet, this is only one of its favorable points, for to employ the words of a well-known critic, "It is full of the poetry of the forest, embodied in the great hunter, Hawkeye." Cooper's fame was now at its height, and he could afford to visit Europe. From June, 1826, to November, 1833, he moved from country to country, the recipient of many courtesies which he did not receive in a very gracious fashion. Mr. Trent says, "He was too typical a democrat to make a favorable impression everywhere. He fancied that his success as a writer made it necessary to lecture to both the old world and the new on their particular weaknesses. Because of this fact, he grew to be very unpopular."
The time in which Cooper lived was not as distinct from our own time as one might think at first hand. Europe half feared and wholly misunderstood America during that period. Ignorant and prejudiced travelers were doing their best to make relations still more strained, very much in the fashion that they are doing it today. Cooper's frequent flings, both at his own country and Great Britain, only succeeded in making him enemies in both countries.
During these years of unfortunate controversy, Cooper wrote some of the best and some of the worst of his novels. The famous Leatherstocking Tales give us Cooper's best pictures of the life he sought to portray. These books, The Deer Slayer, 1841; The Last of the Mohicans, 1826; The Pathfinder, 1840; The Pioneers, 1823; and The Prairie, 1827, to name them in the order in which they should be read, are Cooper's greatest contributions to literature. In this series of novels, he has given us Natty Bumpo, or Leatherstocking, at five successive stages of his life. "We find him on his first warpath, humble and as one who had not been proved; we see him in the fulness of his marvelous skill and sagacity, and we see him finally when age has come upon him, his friends dead, his very dog feeble and toothless, his famous rifle, Kildeer, out of date and ready, like its owner, to be laid aside. To thus show the life and development of a single character in five successive novels is a memorable achievement and the success with which this has been accomplished is one of Cooper's highest claims to distinction."
Leatherstocking has rightfully taken his place in American literature as one of its greatest and most original characters in fiction. Leatherstocking appeals to us partly for himself and partly, like all great characters in fiction, because he is a type of the persons making up the particular civilization that the novelist is striving to paint. Shakespeare's Hamlet, Dicken's Betsy Trotwood, and Scott's Marmion are all great because they interest, first for themselves, and secondly, because they are typical of groups. Leatherstocking is ours. He passed his early life apart from civilization, always keeping in front of the wave of settlement. His life is connected with the subduing of the west. In The Deer Slayer he begins his career on Ostego lake, a very wild country. In The Pioneers, whose time is some sixty years later, the country about the lake had been taken up by settlers, so that the old hunter retreats complaining that he is forced out by the clearings. At length, in The Prairie, which carries us to 1803, a period just after the Louisiana Purchase, we are shown the train of settlers pushing past the forest land into the plains of the far west. In the advance of civilization, Leatherstocking is not a settler, but a pioneer. He is trying to get away from civilization, and chafes because the settler is always close upon his heels.
No small meed of credit is due Cooper that while other novelists had suggested the life of the sailor in such stories as Robinson Crusoe, and Roderick Random, by Tobias Smollett, and Scott in The Pirate, yet he is the first writer of genuine sea tales. In the Leatherstocking stories, Cooper is the novelist of the great stretches of wood and timberland of the waste, and in The Pilot, he is the novelist of the sea in all of its wide expanse. He has created some characters that endure, and literary critics are not slow to admit that Harvey Birch, Pathfinder, or Long Tom Coffin stand worthily beside such characters as Adam Bede and Jeanie Deans.
He was not a master of plot. His plots are not well constructed, and they are very often improbable, but his place as a writer of fiction does not depend on his faults. There is, in his stirring tales of adventure, "dash and vigor," and some of his great dramatic scenes have not often been surpassed. Scenes that have been greatly admired are the wreck of the Ariel in The Pilot, the defense of the cave in the Last of the Mohicans, and the discovery of the body of Asa in The Prairie. Readers of modern fiction will undoubtedly complain that his movement is slow and the material padded. That is the usual complaint of the modern reader when turning to writers of fiction of a hundred years ago. Perhaps it is not entire justice to make these older authors responsible for this fault; rather, we should credit the more modern school with its elimination.
In conclusion, it is rather pleasant to contemplate that while 
Cooper did not recover his popularity during his life time, public animosity decreased to such an extent that in 1851, it was possible to hold a successful memorial meeting in the city of New York, at which William Cullen Bryant delivered an appreciative address, Mr. Cooper having passed away on September 14, 1851.
1. Why might the writing of Cooper make large appeal to the people of the western part of the United States?
2. What would eventually become of the pioneer in our life if the artist did not preserve him? Suggest some other form of art as well as fiction that would tend to preserve the pioneer.
3. Do you know of any novels, since the writing of Scott's Pirate and Cooper's Pilot, that describe sea life?
4. Are tales of adventure as popular today as material for fiction as they were one hundred years ago when Cooper wrote his best novels? If not, how do you account for the change in the taste of people?
5. Through access to books containing selections from American writers, such as Page, and other compilers, or what is better, actual contact with the novel itself, select the account of the wreck of the Ariel in The Pilot, or the defense of the cave in The Last of the Mohicans, and read it to the class.
6. Which five novels comprise the Leatherstocking series?
7. Who wrote Adam Bede?
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in September) Marriage and its Adjustments (Continued)
Adjustment does not imply perfection. The normal human being has imperfections. He is inaccurate in his thinking, clumsy in his conduct, and he is always subject to temptation. But, in general, he is good, sympathetic, and adheres to the fundamental standards of righteousness. A woman must not expect perfection in her husband, neither must the husband expect it in his wife. A perfect companion we might well imagine would contribute more discomfort than happiness to our lives. "Perfect people too," says Jordan, "would be awfully tiresome to live with, their stained glass view of things would seem a constant sermon without intermission, a continuous moral snob of superiority to our self-respect."?Wm. G. Jordan: Little Problems of Married Life, pp. 11-12.
The home is a school; it educates men and women to better living, but it is not a reform school. A woman who marries a
man to reform him may be disappointed. In fact, marriage would soon fail if the home were so regarded. The home is a place to live and to live happily. Frank Crane gives good practical advice. He writes: "Remember, your husband is human. If you are to continue loving him you must love him for what he is, not for what he is going to be, or might be, or ought to be. Remember, your wife is not an angel, a divine waif, some superhuman creature of impossible goodness and sweetness, but 'A spirit, yet a woman, too; A creature not too bright or good For human nature's daily food!' --Frank Crane: American Magazine, Nov., 1921, "Twenty Rules for a Happy Marriage." SACRIFICE AND COMMON INTERESTS When young people are married they must not expect to obtain all the joys of the new life without making some sacrifices. There are many liberties and privileges which single people enjoy but which, if practiced by married people, would destroy the unity of the home. This does not mean that the husband may not enjoy a rabbit hunt without his wife or the wife an afternoon party without her husband. Congeniality in their relations requires that they respect each other's social interests. Married life adds happiness to both husband and wife, but only in so far as each contributes his share and makes only reasonable demands. The husband and wife have now become 6ne. True love "is the resolute purpose in each to seek the good, or rather, to seek a common good which can be attained only through a common life involving mutual self-sacrifice. * * * It is the formulation of a small kingdom of ends in which each treats the other as ends, never as means only; in which each is both sovereign and subject."?Dewey & Tuft: Ethics, p. 580. WHAT ADJUSTMENT IMPLIES In this matter of making adjustments during the early years of married life care should be taken not to sacrifice individuality. True adjustment is mutual adjustment. It frequently happens that one or the other member of the union dominates in every respect to the extent that the weaker or less aggressive personality becomes a mere creation of circumstances. The fact that the man is head of the family does not imply that a woman may not have the right to live her own life. Again Frank Crane writes: "There are three ways of looking at a woman. You can look up and call her (with more or less mental reservation) an angel, divine and etherial. * * * It is usually temporary and easily slumps into contempt, jealously, and all kinds of morbidities, for it is in itself untrue and morbid. "Secondly, you can look down on her. You can play the autocrat. You can emphasize your lordship and mastery. And no one but a petty soul could possibly enjoy doing this. 370 "Thirdly, you can look her level in the eye, as your equal, your pal, your friend and companion." Proper adjustment is thus a union which respects the personality, the rights, the qualifications of each other. It is team work where each lessens the burden of the other by keeping up his own end, pulling his part of the load. It is a cooperation in. Which each contributes his best effort, his peculiar power unrestricted by the dominating influence of the other. In short, proper adjustment is one of love, a union in spirit, in purpose, one which grows in mutual understanding as to right, privileges, powers and obligations. It leaves a man as a man, aa woman as a woman, to live as individuals, a full and complete life. "The happiest marriages," says Jordan, "are those where there is perfect unity and identity of view in the great essentials; perfect freedom in non-essentials, and perfect harmony even in difference of view."?Wm. G. Jordan, Little Problems of Married Life, page 25. This means, of course, that they stand as solid as a rock foundation in matters of loyalty and devotion to each other, their children and their home. They are united in matters of religion and in their larger social aims and interests; but in such matters as books, pictures, plays, places and persons, each respects the taste and personal interest of the other. QUESTIONS 1. Give reasons to show. That it is neither reasonable nor desirable to expect perfection in one's life companion. 2. Show that although marriage is a school, it must not be regarded as a reform school. 3. What evidence can you produce to show that a woman who cannot reform a man before marriage cannot do it after marriage? 4. Can you justify Frank Crane when he says "you must love him (husband) for what he is, not for what he is going to be, or might be, or ought to be? 5. What sacrifice does marriage require of the individual? 6. What common interest does marriage develop in return for self-sacrifice which the individuals make? 7. What individual rights should marriage always respect? 8. Explain the meaning of Jordan's statement that there should be "perfect unity and identity of view on the great essentials, perfect freedom in non-essentials, and perfect harmony even in a difference of view." TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR AUGUST Through a mistake the teachers' topic for July was printed in both the May and June issues of the Magazine. The insertion of two topics in the July issue, will, we believe, guard against inconvenience to the associations. The Prohibition Law and the Word of Wisdom 1. Some public officials believe that the majority of the citizens violate the prohibition law by making home-brew for family use. II. Many violators of this law justify their conduct on the ground that the law is interfering with their personal liberty. These persons confuse liberty with license, and jeopardize their own future and that of their children through their blindness to the consequences of their own folly. III. The soundness of the "Word of Wisdom" has been fully demonstrated by scientific investigation. Anyone who would, now-a-days, seek to demonstrate his freedom by committing suicide, would be declared insane., Yet this is only a more striking example of the principle upon which the devotees of so-called liberty act, when they wilfully violate the prohibition law. The wise citizen sees in the law a means of protecting the weak and the immature against temptation. He not only qbeys the' law but also lends the full strength of his influence in enforcement. He regards it as no more of a restraint upon his liberty than are laws punishing theft. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR SEPTEMBER OBSERVANCE OF QUARANTINE REGULATIONS Disease germs are the most fatal enemies of human life today. Quarantine rules are made to prevent, so far as possible, the destruction of human life.. The second great commandment, "Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself" certainly forbids conduct that endangers the life of neighbors. The command, "Thou shalt not kill" is not restricted to killing with the sword or other weapons of violence. It applies equally to killing with disease germs. It is the moral and religious duty of every one to take all precautions against contracting disease. If however, these precautions fail the duty is equally binding to prevent the spread of disease to others. Strict observance of the quarantine laws is meant to do this. All cases of contagious and infectious disease should be reported promptly to the health officer in charge of the district, and isolation of the patient immediately established. In case of doubt as vo the cause of illness, the family physician or health officer should be called without delay. Delay may mean increased suffering and possible death, not to the patient alone, but to many others, Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. CP LAU NDRY Distinctive Work ?? fr ? University of Utah Summer Schoo ist Term opens June 6, closes July 18 2nd Term opens July 19, closes August 25 College courses are offered in the following subjects: