[Vol14 | January 1927 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The Strength and Might of You Bertha A. Kleinman]
The Strength and Might of You Bertha A. Kleinman Perhaps you have not done your best, Your utmost or your all Perhaps life has denied the test By which you stand or fall; Perhaps the fortitude you lack, The impetus you rue, Needs but the spur of handicap To put you "smiling through." Perhaps convention plies its toll And customs rule between, Till all the beauty of your soul Has never yet been seen.

It may be you depreciate The daily tasks you do The little duties that create The strength and might of you.

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Cache and Logan Stakes.

Social Service Institute: During the week beginning August 30, the Relief Societies of Cache and Logan stakes jointly held an interesting institute of social work.

The attendance was limited to presiding officers and social service aids of Relief Society stake and ward organizations, stake presidency, high councilmen and members of bishoprics.

The course comprised lectures, required readings and discussions of modern methods of family welfare work, and how these methods are being applied in Relief Society activities.

On the opening day of the institute the workers were most eager to talk about particular problems that confronted them in their own localities.

Toward the close, when general plans and ideals had been considered, many of their questions had been answered, and visions of better health programs, budgets, adequate material relief, and final independence for needy families were filling their minds.

Among the brethren visiting the sessions were: Joseph E. Cardon, president of Cache stake; and a number of high councilmen and members of bishoprics.

Class work was conducted by Annie D. Palmer and Anna Laura Stohl of the Family Welfare department, General Board, Salt Lake City.

The workers of both stakes were enthusiastic and keen in interest through the entire course.

A beautifully arranged dinner and social at the Girl's Canyon Home was one of the pleasing features near the close of the profitable week.

Liberty Stake.: This picture presents the stage setting and characters in a pageant entitled, "The Dispensations of the Gospel," which was presented by the Thirty-first ward Relief Society of Liberty stake in their ward chapel.

The pageant portrayed beautifully the truths of the Father's plan for the redemption of his children, as set forth in the theological lesson.

It was presented by members of the Society, or their families, and was under the direction of Mrs. Verna W. Goddard.
