THE Relief Society Magazine Voit. XVIII JULY, 1931 No. 7 The Constitution猶ast and Present Attacks By Judge Oscar W. McConkie HE Lord is mindful of His children and moves mysteriously in bringing about His purposes for their advancement. The coming forth of the Constitution was a part of His plan and strangely enough the quarrels of Maryland and Virginia drove the opening wedge. They sought agreement effecting the navigation of adjacent waters. A conference followed, out of which sprang new hope for a better understanding between all the States. Economic and _ political problems sorely oppressed them. Their impoverishment, however, did not extend to the patriotic, courageous, or intellectual plane of Colonial citizenry. Indeed, although progress, since that day defies the imagination, eclipses human comprehension, motives have not improved, truer patriotism has not been found, nor has human intellect conceived a nobler design. As to the relative greatness of the delegates among whom were Washington and Franklin, I make no attempt at comparison, but probably the foremost comprehending political student and man of political tact and vision amongst them was James Madison. He it was who drafted the constitution as it was presented to the convention and probably had more to do with mal.- ing it what it is than any other man. He was affectionately recognized as "the father of the Constitution." It was he who proposed that an assembly of delegates from all the States meet at Annapolis. Only five States responded but their delegates embalmed their memories by adopting_a resolution drafted by Alexander Hamilton, "to take into consideration the situation of the United States, to devise such further provisions as should appear to them necessary to render the Constitution of the Federal Government adequate to the exigencies of the Union." a' A League of Mutual Protection had been formed, to which each Colony sent two commissioners. Sons of Liberty organizations sprung up promiscuously. The Stamp Act was an issue and public sentiment had become inflamed. The Declaration of Independence and the Revolution were natural sequences. Years of difficulty had prepared the public mind for radical governmental departure but it was not ready for the Constitution. Although unorganized the Colonists were independent ｢ gOvernments, and even though they s suspended like broken parts of a nest which each disturbing breeze threat- 372 ened the more, yet clung they to their segregated independence. The Articles of Confederation with no centrally empowered executive or central means or method of unified Colonial enforcement had failed. To them the Colonists but passively subscribed. Commerce was definitely uncertain. Disputes continued unsettled. The war debt hovered over them like a dark cloud and actual anarchy was threatening. Their freedom, wrenched from tyranny by the sword, was gravely endangered. Appeals were made to the Governor of the universe, whose all seeing eye followed them. The new republic's ordained destiny was hidden, but a few strong willed, courageous and faithful men pushed ever onward. The Maryland and Virginia discord was transformed into opportunity and the hour struck for the birth of a new governmental order. At this state of affairs the thread of communication between our fathers and the Throne of Grace was lighted to surpassing brilliance, the brightness of which was one day to encircle the western hemisphere in rays of protective light. For four months fifty-five delegates, for that was the number who wrote the Constitution of the United States, earnestly devoted themselves. In patriotic purpose, in moral and mental powers supported by wide experience, they were the most admirably equipped body of statesmen that modern times had seen. Their accomplishments surnassed human effort. Most of them had served as governors, members of Congress, or military commanders. Two of them became presidents of the United States. One a VicePresident, others foreign ministers, senators. Cabinet officers, and supreme court judges. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The convention was first in order on May 25, 1787, when Governor Randolph of Virginia presented to it Madison's draft, the "Virginia Plan." It was a radical departure from the Articles of Confederation, providing for a complete change of government and proposing a federal union with legislative, executive, and judicial co-ordinate departments. The small states struck back with the "New Jersey Plan," which was little more than an offer to amend the Articles of Confederation. After many modifications the first prevailed but not until certain failure had several times seemed imminent. Sectional interests made agreement difficult, improbable in fact, until compromise settlements were effected. It was agreed that the Congress should be composed of representatives of the people while the Senate should be made up of representatives of the States. The question of slavery had threatened the convention with certain dissolution but the delegates agreed that three-fifths of the slaves should be counted in determining Congressional representation, although the question was not actually settled without Civil War and blood-shed three quarters of a century later. Commercial and agricultural sectional differences created a third paramount disturbance which also touched slavery. Could it be solved? New York's delegates had gone home and the South threatened to withdraw. Massachusetts wavered. Delegates stroked their chins questioningly, but patience, faith and goodly purpose were rewarded. New light filtered through the dismal atmosphere and the South agreed that, except as to export taxes, Congress should control commerce and the North consented to leave African slave trade open until 1808. Providential de- y THE CONSTITUTION sign had triumphed. But many problems remained yet unsolved. The powers, duties, and relationships of the Executive, the Legislative, and the Judicial departments of the government, including the Supreme 'Court, must be prescribed, as well as the tenure of office fixed. Not until September 17, 1787, was harmonious agreement reached, at which time the document was 'signed by the delegates. MERICANS affirm and_ foreigners agree that our Constitution is unparalleled by any human document, that it ranks above all documents of its kind. It created a federal-national government without historic -precedence, admirably combining national strength with individual liberty, as well as striking a fine balance between state and national rights. Unlike Grecian statesmen our fathers saw the need of union, and unlike Roman leadership they avoided the possible tyrannies of it. For the first time in human governments a balance was struck between national strength and individual liberty in such manner as to secure the advantages of both. The wisdom of the ages as expressed in human conduct, oral tradition, written charters, constitutions, and governmental organizations, contributed to it. It was the culmination of centuries of institutional growth, transformed into an American plan. Of it Gladstone has said: "The American Constitution is the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man," while Bryce declared: "It ranks above every other written constitution for the intrinsic excellence of its scheme, its adaption to the circumstances of the people; the simplicity, brevity, and the precision of its language, its judicious mixture of definiteness in principle with 373 elasticity in details," and_ that 'America was the first great nation in history to solve the greatest of all governmental problems,葉o blend Nationality and Democracy in perpetual wedlock under one government, in such proportion as to secure the benefits of both; to protect local self-government by the mighty arm of a great nation, which is strong enough to perpetuate its own existence." UT its adoption meant the wresting of highly prized powers from sovereign States and giving them to the national government, upon which policy the people looked askance. The proposed innovation of re-organizing the government into legislative, executive, and judicial co-ordinate departments, of making the citizen rather than the State amenable to national law, of giving to the central government the exclusive right to coin money, wage war, treat with foreign powers, lay tariffs, etc., of vesting in the Supreme Court the authority to interpret the Constitution and to empower it with the unprecedented right of passing upon the constitutionality of legislative enactments, were so radical departures from established institutions that approximately one-half of the colonists found themselves in active opposition. But its sound basis won the confidence of the people and the new government became a haven of peace for mankind's oppressed, in which Europeans blended into a great American nation, occupying a wider area than any other nation that spoke a single tongue and enjoyed universal institutions. No where else was manhood suffrage so nearly complete, free schools so general, religious liberty so bounteously bestowed and the equality between states so definitely established. Of 374 it Washington aptly summarized: "The pivots upon which the whole machinery must move are, first, the general Government is not invested with more powers than are indispensably necessary to perform the function of a good Government; and, second, that these powers are so distributed among the Legislative, Executive, and Judicial Branches into which the general Government is arranged, that it can never be in danger of degenerating into a Monarchy, an Oligarchy, an Aristocracy, or any other despotic or oppressive form, so long as there shall remain any virtue in the Body of the People." Again, to those who would temporize to please, he had answered: "If, to please the people, we offer what we ourselves disapprove, how can we afterwards defend our work? Let us raise a standard to which the wise and the honest can repair; the event is in the hand of God." HE command had thundered. From Sinai: '"Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." Upon liberty happiness depends, to attain which participation in government is prerequisite. So, in the Constitution, with the Bill of Rights attached, divinely ordained and unalienable gifts appear, given to man through the natural process of inspired human agency. Notwithstanding it embodied man's highest fundamental rights, and unfolded before every citizen the protection of the whole government, a turbulent population wavered and hesitated. But the result was inevitable. The philosophy of divine right to rule in civil affairs was tumbling and upon its ashes, 'ere the flames of its burning licked up the last vesture of it, was hoisted the doctrine that, as to life, liberty, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and happiness, all men are created equal. MONGST those valiant men who brought forth the Constitution was John Marshall. Political award had made him Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Against waves of attack he stood like a stone barrier. His master mind and keen judicial insight were supported by an honest and courageous conviction. So completely did his faculties coordinate that he fastened upon the Constitution an interpretation that preserved it. He devoted his powers first to its formation, then to its adoption and finally to its preservation. It is a coincident that on July 8, 1835, when his hand was stilled and the nation mourned his going, Liberty Bell, while tolling at his passing, like a great heart broken in joint adventure, cracked and like his pen, was stilled. H UMAN experiences and intelligences grade over so wide a range that uniformity of thought or philosophy can scarcely be expected. Discontent with things as they are is so widespread and so many people are willing to temporize "to please" or for political or financial advantage that greater numbers support attack. The age is one of fascism, of communism, of dictatorship, of overthrowing established institutions, when representative government is challenged and threatened. Competition in experiments is widespread. Governments have fallen 'and strange ideas have fastened themselves upon the hearts of the people of the world. Since 1870 a dozen nations, representing more than a third of the earth's pdpulation, have overthrown their monarchial governments. Millions are restless. Respect for established institutions no longer checks the surg- THE CONSTITUTION ing masses. The hour is insecure. The nations tremble like the sea in the presence of threatened storm. But we see only the shaking surface. The milling waters beneath are hidden from our view. What shall the end be? 'The event is in the hand of God." UT other enemies await us. Other hideous monsters have grown so large as to threaten the security of the government. At the moment crime tears ruthlessly at the very vitals of our civilization. In September, 1929, the North American Review stated that one man, Al. Capone, in 1926, collected $70,000,- 000 through Chicago vice organization and that in 1928 he spent $30,- 000,000 for protection. It is asserted that during his rise and rule there were 4,000 homicides in the city, and that for every one of its men, women and children $45.00 annually, or a gross sum of $136,000,000 is paid to rackets. Of Chicago's 366 murders in 1926 but 70 were convicted and 8 executed. In 1927 only 87 of 379 were convicted and 3 executed, while out of 399 murders in 1928 there were no executions and but 77 convictions. The regular price of murder in Chicago, it is said, is $50.00 to $10,000.00, depending on the prominence of the victim. The force of the gangster is everywhere. If he is caught a defense fund of unlimited proportions awaits the trial and not infrequently witnesses, jurors, and judges are bought. In the United States, during eight recent years, homicides increased 64%, population considered insurance company losses through embezzlement increased 1000% in ten years, while similarly burglary losses for the same period increased 1100%. Crime costs the United States approximately three times the annual receipts of the government 375 itself, and although in this country a million persons are annually committed to penal institutions we must look beyond enforcement officers for the preservation and enforcement of law. Officers can not enforce the law. They can do little more than quiet outbreaks and apprehend and care for persons who have already committed offense. Enforcement must come from the people themselves through obedience to law, if for no other reason than because it is the law. Obviously the government can not station a guard at every man's door. The state must operate on the theory that the people will themselves enforce the law by personal obedience. O RIGINALLY opposition to the Constitution was argumentative, by conversion. [*ailing in that, resort was had to congress and the courts. Then came a new age and with it new methods. What could be more effective than to break down the moral ideals of the people, to destroy faith, to deny God, to trample in the dust the institution of prayer, to laugh at virtue, to kill hope, to add foreign and degenerate philosophy, to organize and commercialize crime? Therein danger awaits. Dark clouds are gathering and if the people of America do not turn the tide then what power shall stop impending storm? SPHE Latter-day Saints affirm and in testimony declare that the Constitution was established under inspiration of the Almighty. Their people unitedly pledge their full powers to its preservation. They acclaim it as a guarantee of "just and holy principles.' They teach that disobedience to it is offensive to God and continuously, through teaching and moral suasion endeavor to develop wholesome respect and 376 intelligent and patriotic conformity to it. Like Moses in the wilderness they hold it up as he displayed the brazen serpent, that all who will may look and live. But it is the people who must look. The view of wise leadership will not preserve us or our institutions if we do not ourselves look. Its shelter carries reThe Morning RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sponsibility. To be a son of the American Republic is not a light thing. If we would preserve the liberties that we now enjoy, the institutions that our fathers nurtured and preserved, it must be through obedience to law, by turning our faces toward God and the Constitution which He so benevolently inspired.
