VoL. XVIII JULY, 1931 No. 7 EDITORIAL Length of Days of constant study and interest. Lengthening the span of life has been a quest of the ages for men long for length of days. The American Philosophical Society had for consideration at its meeting in April, "Lengthening the Span of Life." Lee K. Frankel, in discussing the subject of life expectancy, said that 140 years ago the same subject was laid before the Philosophical Society in a paper entitled, "Probabilities of the Duration of Human Life and the Progress of Population in the United States." In that paper the writer gave statistics and carried a comparison through youth and middle age. He pointed out that of 1000 persons born in Philadelphia, 400 were alive at twenty years, 140 at fifty, and 6 at eighty, while in London only 272 survived to twenty ITE in all its phases is a source years, 140 to the age of fifty, and 2 to the fourscore rank. Mr. Frankel said that at the present time of every 1000 persons born under the protection of modern medical and sanitary science, 836 are alive at twenty, 657 at fifty, and 133 at eighty. From 1790 to 1890, eight years were added to the average length of life in this country. By 1930 the eight years had been increased to twenty-four, so life expectancy is nearly twenty-five years greater than it was when the American Philosophical Society first discussed the subject. However, Mr. Frankel doubts if any considerable addition will be made to the span of life itself. He says that while fewer people die in the earlier years, he feels that the human machine is set to run just so long and then runs down, He says the talk of extend- 424 ing the average life period into the hundreds is not encouraged by actuaries or medical science in general. Mr. Frankel points out that the desirable thing is for a normal life unimpaired by illness, and then the great finale, "as one who wraps the drapery of his couch about him and lies down to pleasant dreams."— Bryant. A dramatic and interesting event during the meeting of the Society and especially in the light of the discussions participated in, was the death of its president, Dr. Dercum, for he illustrated the kind of a death Mr. Frankel had pointed out as desirable. Dr. Dercum had been one of Woodrow Wilson's physicians. At the opening of the Society, he faced a room well filled with distinguished scientists who had gathered for the annual meeting. He sat in the high backed "step ladder chair'"* of Benjamin Franklin, who founded this oldest scientific body in the United States. Dr. Dercum knew that he faced death for he had suffered with a weak heart and had *The "step ladder" has a folding arm contrived by Franklin for use in climbing for books on high library shelves. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to be carried into the building. His friends thought that his great interest in presiding at this meeting, the seventh year of his presidency, had held death at bay for some time. He was about to pick up the gavel; he leaned slightly forward as if to study the papers on his desk, and then sank quietly into an attitude of rest in his chair. Death came at that moment, but the audience thought he had fainted. The doctor who was called said "his death was as easy and painless as this" — and he placed his finger tips on a friend's coat' lapel and pressed it lightly. 'While he was working happily, his heart stopped." Professor William Berryman Scott of Princeton University took the chair and said, '"Dr. Dercum is dead. The meeting will proceed as scheduled. He would have wished it so." In the future man can hope to look forward to an average of seventy or even of one hundred years; but the important thing is not length of days but better health right up to the end—a century of unimpaired usefulness and then death approximating Bryant's quotation. This is the consummation to be desired in the opinion of Mr. Frankel. June Conferences E congratulate the Mutual Improvement and the Primary Associations for the excellence of their conferences, held June 11 to 14 and June 12 to 16 respectively. The programs were carefully planned and_ effectively carried out and gave invaluable training to their officers. The attendance was large. The Primary had representatives from each of the 104 stakes in the Church and from some of the missions; and the conjoint roll call of the Mutual Improvement Associations showed representation from every stake but one, and from several missions. HE Word of Wisdom exhibit sponsored by the General Boards of the Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations was a most effective way of showing that science and experience and men's best thought approve of God's advice to his people EDITORIALS as contained in the Word of Wisdom. No slogan was ever launched more effectively than the one chosen for this year, '""We stand for physical, mental and spiritual health through observance of the Word of Wisdom." Thousands visited the exhibit and showed the greatest interest and certainly great good will result from this scientific and philosophical display. Another special feature of the June conference was the Pioneer Trails program. In living picture and in story the coming of different bands to the West was portrayed and eulogy of their character and accomplishments was voiced.. HE three-fold purpose of the Primary Association—religious 425 instruction, leisure time direction, and care of the health—was considered during the five-day convention of this organization. Great emphasis was placed upon how to teach children, and many education specialists appeared on the program. As an aid in recreational leadership, morning and evening classes in dancing and dramatization were held on four days of the convention; while the closing session, featuring health and the Word of Wisdown, was characterized by a playlet. An outstanding feature of the convention was the sacred pageant, "The Light and the Life of the World," presented at the Tabernacle on Sunday morning by Primary children as an expression of their religious instruction. Dean Milton Bennion Honored A' the June commencement program of the University of Utah, the honorary degree of Doctor of Education was conferred upon Dean Milton Bennion of the School of Education of the University of Utah. He is a member of the General Board of the Sunday School, and the husband of our own board member, Cora L. Bennion. He has ever been ready ot help us in our Relief Society work, and we rejoice in the well deserved honor that has come to him. He has been and will continue to be a credit to his alma mater. Not only is his work on character education known in the intermountain West but throughout the United States he is recognized as a leader in this important field. Where are Your California Friends and Relatives? OS ANGELES, San Francisco and Hollywood Stakes and the California Mission are undertaking the tremendous task of ''accounting for every Latter-day Saint" within the territories served by each of these divisions respectively. Because of the great extent of the territory and the millions of people living in it, it is well nigh impossible to make the canvas in the way it is being made in the more compactly organized stakes. For this reason the California Saints appeal to their brethren and sisters in all other parts of the world and especially in the organized stakes to assist in locating Latter-day Saints and friends of Latter-day 426 Saints living anywhere in California. On the form below give the names and addresses and mail to one or the other of the Stake Clerks named on the form. Aim to give the latest authentic address you have so as to save as much time as possible in locating the persons named. It would be highly desirable if you would write to your California John S. McCune Clerk Hollyood Stake 1209 South Manhattan Place Los Angeles, Calif. Octave Ursenbach
