. Emma Clouchek By Cora Carver Ritchie HE backbone of frontier cities and new states has always been the brave women who have pioneered them. Idaho is still new. Her women are still pioneering. Among the dozens of prominent women who Emma CLOUCHEK have done big things in a big way in Idaho, Emma Clouchek stands out eminently. In many ways she is a true pioneer for she has been the founder of new movements, civic, social and political. Her grandfather Rull Olds and his family crossed the plains in 1844, with the second caravan that went to Oregon. The family settled on a donation claim, which consisted of 320 acres of virgin soil free to the couples who would cultivate it. Among the precious relics Mrs. Clouchek treasures is a deed written ' by her grandfather describing that claim. The boundaries were designated by a certain tree on one corner and by a peculiar rock on the other. Nelson Olds who was eight years old when his father crossed the plains also lived on this claim. He married Phebe Livengood. They had a large family, Emma being the fourth child. The children were all raised and educated in Oregon. Speaking of Emma her sister said, "We have always looked to her for everything and we still do." After teaching school several years, Emma married Dr. Henry Walker Clouchek. They moved to Twin Falls, Idaho in 1904, and have since made their home there, giving freely of both time and money to help build up this community. The doctor has always been a lover of children. In his quiet way he has won the hearts of all who know him. No one will ever know how many unfortunate lads have been completely fitted out from head to toe with a new set of wearing apparel with arms full of extras by him. He is the news boys' friend. Even before charitable organizations were working as they do today, Mrs. Clouchek did follow up work for her husband. If there was no other way to help a needy family, she made over her own clothes and did the actual work in the homes of EMMA CLOUCHEK the sick. Many families have been started back on the road to seli-confidence and self-support through the generous, capable aid of Mrs. Clouchek. -Club and served twice a8 president. She was the first president of the Ladies' Aid, first secretary of the first club in Twin Falls, has been president of District Federation of Woman's Clubs and has served as chairman of every committee in the state and district work. Kor four years she conducted s0- cial service lessons for mothers in connection with P. T. A. Work. She has been county and state chairman of the Woman's Republican Club and vice president for the State Club. For eight years she has worked on the woman's committee for the fair —three years on committees and five years as superintendent of all departments pertaining to woman's work. When she first took over the fair work, the women were allowed" one little corner in one building. Today they occupy three large buildings and parts of a fourth. The most helpful unit she has organized is the Social Hall unit, which is used for boys' and girls' and women's demonstration plans, club work, etc. It is the social center of the fair a place where everything can be planned and adjusted. Mrs. Clouchek built a rack to display towels, etc., that has been copied by many other fairs becatise of its utility and simplicity. She also built the up-to-date kitchen and pantry in the woman's building. She has a scheme this year whereby she can double the gate receipts, if the. Men will vision her plan in time. 403 Mrs. Clouchek was elected to the state legislature as representative from Twin Falls county in 1930. In the short time she has worked in the House in Boise, she has proven her ability to think clearly and act quickly. A representative from another county said, "When Mrs. Clouchek takes the floor the men listen. She talks only when she has something to say and she says st so emphatically there is no room left for doubt." She is mild, sweet and courteous and has a merry twinkle in het black eyes; she loves @ good story OF joke. To win her point she will fight just as hard and the blows will be just as effective as were those of her father or grandfather in their many battles with the Indians. She is frank and unafraid to speak her mind. For instance when telling one of her nephews about the evils of tobacco she was asked, "How about the women >" Her eyes flashed as she replied, "Women are making fools of themselves when they smoke, it is filthy and disgusting." In discussing women and the ballot she said, "Women are losing an using the ballot as they should. Home and public affairs should be combined. A mother must be alert and keep up. This is vital for the woman rearing children as legislation is looking forward to the coming generation that mothers are now educating." She claims the biggest need in Idaho's educational system is the care of the under privileged child. The schools should be made to meet the needs of the mentally deficient. Representative Clouchek introduced several new bills in the house. One she is much snterested in is the free vaccine bill, which provides for free vaccine and anti-toxin for all contagious diseases. 404 Another important bill is for the care of the tubercular cases. This bill is preventative, educational, and curative in its scope. She is chairman of the Public RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Health committee, is a member of the Library Committee, and is on the Forestry and Municipalities Committee. Her advice is eagerly sought on vital questions.
