Frances Mangum By Fay Ollerton STUDENT of pioneer times A in Mormondom often feels the sameness of the lives, especially of the women. A cursory study reveals one hardship and trial after another, varied only by a different kind of test to go colonizing; and sweetened only the light of faith which seemed never to wane. Yet life held something fine and deep for them, even for the unknowns who moved in obscure places. It was a something that compensated for the seemingly barren years. Perhaps it was because they tasted more deeply of the creative spirit than most of us do today; they could see in the rough trails they were marking the smooth highways of later years. Whatever it was, there was purpose in their existence, a purpose so fine that it obliterated the sorrows and made of futility a thing less than a shadow. One of these women who served silently in the building of our West was Frances Mangum, born in one of the little square counties of Mississippi close to the Alabama border. Whether her parents were members of the Church when their eldest - daughter was born, her record does not say. It states only that Frances was born in 1843 and that one year later the family moved to Iowa, and that they were living there when the Mormon Battalion was mustered out of service. Nine years after her birth the family had progressed as far West as Nebraska, and in 1852 they started towards Deseret. Like all the years of pioneer migration the summer of 1852 was a hard one. Little Frances was to become so inured to suffering and privation 'that she regarded them as part of life. She walked most of the way to Payson, Utah, though she was not yet nine years of age. The sight of the dead, (cholera was raging then) wrapped in their cottonwood bark burial clothes, and the war whoops of the Indians became common things as she plodded along the sunflower trail. Once in Utah Frances' odyssey had barely begun. She was to live the rest of her life in obscure places watching the sparse green fields emake inroads against the silver sage, and to see church spires and crude school houses reared where the Indians and rattle snakes had lately held sway. From Payson the family soon moved to Nephi, where for the next few years the pioneer girl was to see with interested eyes her men folk erecting a ten foot mud wall about the little town as a protection from the Indians. In 1857, when the pioneers were resting with some security behind their fortress, Brigham Young issued a call for intrepid families to go further south in Dixieland and cultivate cotton. John Mangum, ever willing for new ventures responded. Frances was almost a woman grown now and must do a woman's FRANCES work. One of her first duties was the getting of cotton seed. There was no gin then and the girl must labor at the tedious process of separating the thick seed from the cotton and then have John Mangum pay twenty-five cents a pound for the finished product. Later in the season when the cotton lay like snow on the brown stalks she picked it, then wove and spun it into dress material for the sons and daughters of Zion. \ | OURTSHIP, like hardship, came early but did not last so long; it was commonplace for a girl to be married in her early teens. In the year 1857 she met Gabrel Coley, presumably from Texas, since Frances' record states that he returned there. In April, 1858 in the first bloom of a Dixie spring they were married by Apostle Amassa Lyman. Within a year their only child Winnie Frances was born, but the added burden proved too much for Gabrel; and with one gesture he forsook both his family and church for what he considered the easier life in Texas. The next year Frances married James M. Mangum. Three children all of whom died in infancy were born to them. Frances must have felt some peace and stability for they lived continuously in the southland until 1869, when she and James were called to pioneer Kanab. They were ten years among the red hills and the cedars before they followed the Mormon trail to Arizona and Apache county. Old Geronomo was on the war path with his cruel braves and Frances was to feel once more the excitement and torment of earlier years. In 1888 James Mangum died. For a few years she struggled against ill health and poverty, then her old spirits and energy returned, for she MANGUM 405 was needed in the little settlements of Apache County. Four years before her husband's death Bishop Benjamin Noble, knowing full well her sturdy qualities, her gentleness with the sick, and her intelligence set her apart as a midwife. If her calling previous to this time had been to pioneer the waste places, hereafter she was to aid souls into the places she had prepared for them. Night or day for years she was subject to calls in the little town where she lived, or over perilous mountain paths. All in all with no special aid she brought more than four hundred infants into the world, and her fees for all of them would scarcely pay for one child's entry into life in the year 1931. She was not destined to spend her days peacefully in the home her husband had reared for her. It was in 1897 that Winnie's husband died, leaving her a legacy of nine children. When Frances was not in the sick room she was sewing and weav- _ ing and turning almost any kind of honest toil into money for her grandchildren. In 1917 she packed her household goods and moved again, this time to Central, a little town in the eastern part of Arizona. Ten years of this and she made her last journey to Duncan, a tiny place where she was to spend her last days with her daughter and an unmarried grandson. Duncan was not far, as miles go, from her first Utah home, but she was to feel that an eternity of experience separated the two. She died when she was eightyfive years old, still in possession of her mental faculties and of her zest for life and her faith in the Church that had led her from the river lands of the old south to the dry spaces of the West where her kind was needed and appreciated.
