Patriotism of the Daughters of the Utah - Pioneers By Julia P. M. Farnsworth it, is love and loyalty to God, home and country. If there exists today an organization of women in America with reason to be imbued with these characteristics, it is the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. By right of inheritance they possess these qualifications, as most of them came of the line of patriots who were -of the early Colonial settlers. Their ancestors emigrated from European countries to the new world, and proved their right to recognition. The fathers and mothers of the Pp ATRIOTISM, as J understand Daughters of Utah Pioneers, per-- manently established one of the states of the Union, between the great East and the far West. This linking of the continent made travel safe and emigration sure. Our parents encouraged agriculture and commerce; they helped to develop the mines, and every other industry possible. They built churches, homes, school houses, and ever extended, in a most gracious manner, their hospitality to the stranger within our gates. From the period of the settlements in 1847, in Utah, we have been taught to honor and respect our American laws and government, to cherish her Constitution and Declaration of Independence, to love her history and her gallant countrymen, and everything that tends to the ennobling and elevating of humanity. You cannot, within the United States, find women who have sacrificed more, to express their reverence for the flag, than have the wives, mothers and daughters of the Utah Pioneers. With God and family our country claims our full allegiance! The society of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers was organized by a true and loyal heroine, Annie Taylor Hyde. On her mother's line she was a descendant of the early covenantors of Scotland, the Ballantyne's who were a splendid type of people; her father was the revered and cultured president, John Taylor. In addition to being men and women of sterling character, our Utah Pioneers were also people of great ability, and the object of the organization of the Daughters of 408 the Pioneers, which was perfected on the 11th of 'April, 1901, just 30 years ago, was to keep in our memories the lives, works, and accomplishments of our early pioneers— our fathers, 'mothers and grandparents, and the noble examples and the worthy teachings they have left us, what they actually did, and what they expected us to do. It is our aim not to disappoint them, but to keep the heritage they have left us, and hand it on enriched and enlarged. Our inspiration comes when we review that marvelous task, the great journey across the trackless plains, with no guides but the stars of heaven, no director but the spirit of God. Brigham Young, that great and fearless colonizer, in company with the other heroic men guided our people, under the inspiration of an all-wise power, on that long and desolate journey, beset as they were by difficulties every mile of the way. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All had faith to sustain them, and acknowledged that the ultimate result for which they were seeking would be theirs. Yet fortitude and constant manual labor was necessary to sustain them and to keep alive the spirit of achievement; to safeguard the health and to preserve the lives of the people. The wives, mothers and daughters took an active part in this all along the way. Examples of morality and right standards were prominently before them, and these were inspired and led by the loftiest patriotism with liberty, freedom and devotion always in their hearts. May the daughters be true to the faith, and institutions which were built upon honor! May they maintain the qualities of truth and honesty, for the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, as did their mothers, thoroughly understand the meaning and the magnificance of real patriotism!
