Notes to the Field Suggestions to Visiting Teacher Class Leaders HE greatest peril in the world today is the lack of spirituality. Devout Christians everywhere are recognizing the need of a reaction toward religion. They feel the urgent necessity of spiritual leadership to guide them through the wilderness of modern unbelief. Latter-day Saints must be spiritual. Our Gospel is the "glad tidings'鍟he light 㻖or which the world is groping, but cannot see. We have the opportunity, and it is our duty to be the great spiritual force on earth. To be worthy of the name we have assumed we must be untiring in our vigilance to perfect the world and prepare the way for our Master and herald His second coming. The women of the Church have a large share of the responsibility in this work. This is especially true of the Relief Society visiting teacher. Her work may seem humble, but it is vital. To her is given the important privilege of entering into the joy and siuctess, the sorrow and distress of those upon whom she calls in the intimate relation of the family circle. She has the opportunity to share their happiness and re-~ lieve their suffering. The teacher has power and influence because she has the rare chance to translate precept into action. Kindly, sympathetic understanding鍟hat quality commonly called tact𡟙s a necessary attribute of the teacher. Special education is required in many phases of our work, but with the teacher the important thing is love. The ability to radiate peace and good cheer is the most needful qualification. The nature of the visit of the teacher invites the confidence of others and entitles her to that confidence. If she has the spirit of Christ people will naturally confide in her, and by that same token she will keep the trust sacred. Jesus loved mankind better than He loved Himself. All He has asked of us is to love others as much as we love ourselves. If we did that think what it would mean! We would be considerate of the feelings of others. We would be happy in their success and advancement. We would hide their weaknesses and faults. Wie would guard their unhappy secrets as we would our own if placed in similar circumstances. We would observe the Golden Rule. We would keep the second great commandment𨫎e would love our neighbor as ourself. Qk are two warring forces in human nature, Hatred and Love. Hate is jealousy, fault-finding, bitterness, gossiping, self-aggrandizement. Love is kindness, sympathy, generosity, tolerance, patience. Hate destroys. Love builds and strengthens. Hate is the spirit of Evil. Love is the spirit of God. Every word, deed, or thought that is unworthy of Jesus is destructive. Love is the only force that can defeat hate. To interpret fully the meaning of the work of our Lord it is necessary to accept the rules of: conduct by which He lived. Jesus, being a God had all intelligence and power. Yet, according to all the records of His life, these are not the attributes which He stresses. His outstanding characteristics in the flesh are sympathy, humility, love. A devout and constant study of His life, cannot but make one accept love as the guiding force of one's existence. If every teacher will think of herself as an ambassador of Christ, carrying the message of His sacrifice, His kindness, 418 His forgiveness, and His understanding she will appreciate the sacredness of her calling. She will rejoice that she has been called to do so great a work. It is this thought that suggested the precepts of Jesus as desirable texts for the teachers' topics during the coming year. To carry out this idea in the most successful way it will be necessary for the teachers to make a devoted and somewhat comprehensive study of His life. T is the desire of the Genera! Board that the teachers use the topic in their monthly visit, even though opportunity does not permit of an elaboration of the idea; that the text at least be left in every home. We suggest that the teachers put into effect the admonition of the Savior to His disciples: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, 'Peace be to this house'." Luke 10:5. It may not be possible nor appropriate to speak the words aloud, - but if the thought is sufficiently potent it will affect. The atmosphere of the home. We ask you to accept this as the watchword of the Relief Society Visiting Teachers. We beg you to urge the teachers to read a few chapters of the New Testament every day, that they may - come to know and love our Savior more tenderly; that they may pray constantly for inspiration in their work; that they may feel His divine presence as they enter every home; that they may carry with them and leave behind them His spirit of comfort and cheer. We entreat you, sisters, to strive earnestly to make the life of Jesus our Redeemer become a tender, vital, moving force in the lives of those with whom you labor. We pray that the work of the teachers may be blessed, that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mission of the Latter-day Saints may soon be consummated, and the world be made ready for the coming of our Master and our Lord. Our First Obligation While we should support the bishops and do all in our power to aid in building meeting houses and chapels, we hear of some Relief Soci- "eties who become so interested in raising money for ward buildings that they neglect their charity work, which is their first obligation. One Relief Society that proudly boasted of raising several thousand dollars for the meetine house has no charity fund whatever, and the charity work in that ward is reported in a very much neglected condition. Let us learn to put first things first. Tree Planting We would like each Stake to send in to the General Secretary the number of trees they have planted this spring. Cooperate With State Board of Health It is estimated that 10,000 of the 16,000 mothers who died in 1930 from conditions attendant upon childbirth could have been spared had they received proper attention. It is estimated that 30,000 babies died in the United States in 1930 from preventable causes. The Relief Society is desirous of doing ail in its power to decrease this distressing mortality. Relief Society presidents in Utah should get in touch with Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner, State Capitol, Salt Lake City, and have literature which he has for free distribution sent to expectant mothers on the care of the mother and the care of the baby. We presume that other State Boards of Health have similar literature for distribution. Notes from the Field Swedish Mission: (ee office is in receipt of a most interesting history of the Swedish Mission Relief Societies. In the beginning of the year 1930, instructions were sent by Sister Leah D. Widtsoe, president of the European Mission Relief Societies, that an historical record was to be kept of the Relief 'Society work accomplished in the Swedish Mission, the history to begin on January 1, 1930. It includes the happenings of the different events of historical value. Month by month these happenings were recorded in a specially bound book, to be kept for all future reference. This record shows that fifteen Relief Societies were organized in the Swedish Mission, named after the places where the branch organization exists. The plan of organization followed was in harmony with that of the Relief Society, viz., a president, two counselors, a secretary-treasurer, an organist and chorister, a class leader, also the necessary district teachers, and a regular roll of the various members. In some few cases the organization was not quite complete, due to lack of members, but a uniform history and record book will be kept in the mission. Sister Signe L. Hulterstrom, has presided over the Swedish Mission Relief Society, since arriving in the mission on November 28, 1927. The meetings held in the mission have followed the general plan, with a uniform lesson course just as far as it is possible. On March 17, 1930, a special program was given in commemoration of the organization of the Relief Society in the year 1842. Reports were received from the branches of the mission that a most wonderful time was experienced during the exercises of this special event. Several inspiring talks were given, and fine songs and music appropriate to the occasion were rendered. Everything the Relief Society sisters have done. During the year 1930, was with the centennial thought in view. In honor of the one hundredth anniversary of the Church, the sisters took an active part in the different programs, and rendered all the assistance possible to the brethren. They decorated the halls, prepared food and refreshments, and contributed much towards the success of the centennial meetings.. The Spring Jubilee Conferences were held on the different Sundays in the five districts of the mission, these in addition to the regular Relief Society meetings. Upon these special occasions pageants were presented, dialogues were giVen, and other special numbers rendered. The attendance was unusually good. On April 6, a special branch conference was held in every branch in the mission. At these conferences the special message from the First Presidency of the Church was read. The Relief Society sisters were active in all of these programs. One day of particular interest was the celebration on the 24th of July. This in far away Sweden, gave a touch of home to the missionaries, and the meetings were held with special commemorative exercises. In all of this, it is felt that the Relief Society is a wonderful aid to the mission branches. Bazaars have been held, much actual charity work has been done, and everybody was 420 cheered up by the sisters at the time of their meetings and in their special visits. Northwestern States Mission (Dillon Branch): THE above picture is of a cast "The Dillon Sewing Circle," which was presented along with a musical program, following a banquet, to which 80 guests were invited. This was in honor of the 89th anniversary of the founding of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE versary. A brief review of the history and development of the organization was given by the president of the Society. The Literary Department was represented by a dramatization of Oscar Wilde's story "The Selfish Giant," fifteen children of the Primary Asociation assisting. Social welfare work was demonstrated by a welfare scene. A local doctor, assisted by a nurse, attended a sick child, and a Relief Society welfare worker delivered food and "THE DILLON SEWING CIRCLE" the Relief Society. The Dillon branch in the Northwestern States mission is a small one, but a steady growth is marked, and with the spirit of willingness to serve, and capable members, the organization is carried on most successfully. There is an enrolled membership of 17. Northwestern States Mission (Seattle Branch): O N Sunday, March 15, the Seattle, Washington, Relief Society of the Northwestern States Mission, presented a program in commemoration of the Relief Society anniclothing for the mother and her three children. The Theology department took its theme from a poem by Ellen L. Jakeman, which appeared in the March 1928 Relief Society Magazine, "This is the Day (A. Plea to the Lamanite Sisters)." Eight sisters dressed in Indian costumes were in the background seated around a camp fire in front of a tepee. A mixed quartette sang, "Oh Stop and Tell Me Red Man," and a Lamanite sister responded, giving the "Response of the Lamanite Sisters," by S. T. Brimhall Foley, which appeared in the February 1931 Magazine. In this scene the NOTES FROM THE FIELD Lamanite sisters came forward, leaving their blankets and now wearing brightly colored dresses and shoes, seated themselves at the front of the stage. The last scene represented Eliza R. Snow composing the hymn, "OQ My Father." 'Accompanying this scene was soft violin and piano music. The portrayal of the composition of this beautiful hymn was inspired by the study of past literary lessons of the Church hymns and composers. The Branch choir and an organ soloist furnished appropriate music during the program. Eastern States Mission (Washington, D. C. Branch): O*' February 28, 1931, in Washington, D. C., the Washington branch of the Relief Society celebrated its fifth birthday by a most successful reception at the home of Senator and Mrs. Reed Smoot. In the receiving line, and those who assisted in serving during the evening, were Relief Society officers, past presidents and charter members of the organization. Wonderful music, both vocal and instrumental, 421 added greatly to the enjoyment oi the evening. There were over 200 guests at this happy event. A large birthday cake, made by Sister V. B. Isbel, was in reality a collection box for voluntary contributions. Donations ranged from $10.00 to a few cents, and the total amound raised was $115.00. The expense of the event was comparatively small. The following picture is of the birthlay calge. Central States Mission (Independence Branch): TR secretary of the Independence Branch of the Central States Mission, writes as follows: "Our branch is not so very large, only numbering about 30. Of these there are not so many who can attend our meetings, but the sisters who do come are very energetic, and are able to do a lot of work. We serve din-~ ners at our conferences twice a year, and make our money to pay the expenses of the Society, and to care for the sick. The Society is diligent in looking after the needy. So far SISTER V. B. ISHBEL holding the Cake used as a Constitution Box 422 this year we have already paid out about $60.00 to the poor. That is a large sum considering the few people who are here engaged. We hold our meetings regularly each Tuesday. The second Tuesday we meet early, and serve a covered dish luncheon, then quilt for the remainder of the day. We intend to carry this part of our work on all during the summer." 'On March 13th, we had an entertainment, when we presented the beautiful pageant "The Guardianship of Life." This was under the direction of Sister Vesa C. Marler. There was a good attendance, and we were able, with the returns from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE this, to entertain our members and their escorts at our banquet on March 17th. Upon this event we had a wonderful program and a very fine dinner, and entertained about 65 guests. The program included a poem written by our own sister Isabelle Ireland, also a song written by her which was appropriate to the occasion. "We are very fortunate here in Independence, to have with us most of the year, our dear Sister Charlotte T. Bennion, who is president of the Relief Societies of the Central States Mission. We appreciate greatly her words of encouragement and guidbe) ance. 𢰦ictorial California, All Year Club Photo. Straining trees, their roots buried deep in the rich beach soil, defy the wind and rain near the Palos Verdes Hills of California. The grasses along the roadway bow their heads before the wind, but the trees, heads erect and branches held up to the breezes defy the elements, They have sturdy, strong arms.
