[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Our Annual Day]

EDITORIAL  Motto  Charity Never Faileth.  Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. MARCH, 1917. No. OUR ANNUAL DAY. It was a happy thought, that of commemorating the organization of the Relief Society by Thought. celebration, in speech, in retrospect and in general rejoicing. This day is so full of wonders and possibilities; and yet, our human memories are so treacherous  human life is so transient  that we would forget friends, teachers, parents, prophets, leaders, and all great work events, were it not for memorial days, history hooks, portraits or statues. Out of our lives these would fade and out of the world's great hall of fame they would all pass away hut for some natural and human devised methods of preserving their memory for posterity. The results of great events and lives would live  true  hut not the human recollection of them. And so, it is good to meet on this day and to remind ourselves of the organization of this, the first duly organized body of women in modern times. I et us hear about it, read about it, think about it. with gratitude and with much of awe and reverence. There have been groups of Catholic women The Pioneer shul up in convents for nearly two thousand and Pathmaker. years, hut these were under the control "I the priests; there was no effort at self-expression nor self-government among the women. They were doing EDITORIAL. 161 violence to every call and demand of nature, but one  benevolence. The bishop or priests made the rules of their order and controlled the property of the order. The women were  in short  recluses, living without any human ties, most of them forever forbidden intercourse with friends or family. Many devoted women thus immolated themselves on the altar of sacrifice they left the world in order to escape the snares of the world. Here and there in modern times a woman had risen  a Mary Wollstonecroft, an Abigail Adams, a Mary Lyon, crying out the need for greater freedom of thought and action for women; but not until that day in March. 1842, had women gathered to organize or to be organized into an independent self-governing body for cultural and benevolent purposes. Six years after that, in 1848, at Seneca Falls, there gathered that brave group of three women who named themselves, "The Woman's Rights Association." Others and still others followed in quick and bewildering succession. But the Relief Society, organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, was the pioneer, the pathmaker, the foundation stone of woman's modern evolution. What vast interests for the betterment of Benefits women, children, of humanity in general Resulting. have grown out of that meeting seventy-five years ago. The Society itself has developed its charitable and benevolent functions, into mammoth proportions. Nursing the sick as a neighborhood activity, training nurses and midwives, co-operative enterprises, the raising and manufacture of silk, equal suffrage. Young Ladies and Young Men's Improvement Associations, Primary Associations for the children, a Home for Women, a magazine owned, managed and edited by women, books written and printed for women and children, correspondence courses in literature, art,