[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The Music Page]

The Music Page. Question  How shall we arrange a Stake Relief Society Choir? H. L. First. Be sure you have made a good selection in choosing your stake chorister and organist. They should be women of strong personality, full of enthusiasm, tact, perseverance, and patience, as well as being women of musical ability. This also applies to the sisters who act in these positions in the various wards. The stake chorister after her appointment should call together her local choristers, and organists, ward choir members, and any others who care to join. A regular day each month should be chosen for rehearsals, and some simple music adapted to the ability of the women's voices should be selected. Do not attempt to sing grand opera choruses, but choose some of the simple and beautiful music written by our home authors, music full of the spirit and genius of our work. What is lacking in musical ability in our Relief choir work may be made up in love, devotion, and enthusiasm. We need quality, of course, and we also need quantity, singers with influence, and enthusiasm. Get all the trained singers that are available, those sweet, true voices which have had some cultivation as well as those of good native ability, who are able to sing a solo if needed or to take the lead in duet or quartet singing. Of quantity  these make up the rank and file of a choir of no great talent, but whose hearts are in the work and who love to do their part in the service of praise. Be sure and include those rare souls whose sweet influence will bring others along, whose quiet assistance will do much to bring new members and keep up the interest of the others, even though they be not extra good singers. In stakes where wards are scattered, the stake chorister might select a few hymns or songs and give them to her local choristers to be learned between conferences ; then an hour's practice of the combined choirs before the stake cooference opens would result in a good stake choir. Sing the songs of Zion, and those of our gifted women writers. Where you have few opportunities to sing as a stake choir, an arrange to sing the old for with folks and the "shut-ins;" also have occasional social a concert program at least once a year.