[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Relief Society Ward President Annie Wells Cannon]

the Relief Society, each one bringing three. Tn addition to this, flour and potatoes were given to many other families. The Ensign ward collected and distributed $27.46. In the Twenty-first ward, the officers of the Relief Society visited every home and received $221 in donations. They sent baskets to forty-two families, a sack of potatoes, a sack of apples NOTES FROM THE FIELD 153 and $1.50 to $2 in cash to each of them. Thirteen sacks of flour were also sent out. In the Twentieth ward, forty-seven baskets, at a value of from $1.50 to $2 each, were distributed. One of the residents of the ward donated $15, with which to buy toys for poor children. The Twenty-seventh ward distributed twelve baskets and several tons of coal. In the Eighteenth ward the bishopric and Relief Society worked tog-ether in collecting and distributing charity funds. On Christmas day, $401.75 was distributed to the worthy poor and widows; $100 was sent to the missionaries, making a total disbursement for Christmas of $501.75. Granite Stake. The Granite stake Relief Society, in September and October, 1916, inaugurated a Food Preparedness Campaign, when Relief Society teachers visited the homes of the people  both Latter-day Saints and non-members  in the various wards of the stake, and solicited a special "free will donation," consisting of one pound of flour, sugar, rice, beans, peas, etc., which could be stored away for a time of emergency or special need among the working poor. On October 27, entertainments were given in the ward meeting houses, in the afternoon for the children, who paid for -admission in coal and potatoes, and in the evening for adults, who paid admission in pounds, if they so desired. The movement was attended with gratifying success, as is attested by the following figures: Collected in cash, $680.86; pounds, 6,l60y2; bottled fruit, 91 quarts; canned goods, 426; packages, 116; coal, 12 sacks; potatoes, 8 sacks; soap, 36 bars. The people, generally, entered into the spirit of the campaign with such manifest enthusiasm that it is hoped to make it an annual affair. President Lorilla L. Home, of the Granite stake Primary Association, with her officers and the workers of the several wards, pleasantly surprised the Relief Society sisters in their various January work and business meetings. These Primary workers assisted in the sewing, and afterwards served delicious refreshments. In one of the wards a complete layette was made for an expectant mother. The old folks of the County Iofirmary were given the customary musical and dramatic treat during the Christmas holidays. Stake Chorister Lucy M. Green, and the Relief Society choir, paid them a visit and discoursed sweet music, and the members of the Miller ward Relief Society presented a play for their amusement and pleasure. Both of the entertainments were greatly enjoyed and highly appreciated. 
 Swiss and German Mission. Mrs. Rose Ellen Bywater Valentine, who with her husband Mr. H. W. Valentine, late President of the Swiss and German Mission, has just returned from Europe, and was a recent visitor at Relief Society headquarters. We were delighted to receive Mrs. Valentine and to hear her interesting account concerning the people with whom she has been associated, in the old world. Mrs. Valentine was for three and one-half years president of the Relief Societies in Germany and Switzerland. She was set apart for this special work in March, 1913, by Elder Rudger Clawson, who was at that time President of the European Mission, and she continued in this position until her release in the late fall of 1916. There are at present 17 branches of the Relief Society in this mission, 13 in Germany and four in Switzerland, and a total membership of 600. The German societies are located in Berlin, Dresden, Chemnitz, Hamburg, Konigsburg, Stettin, Karlsruhe, Zwickau, Gerlitz, Frankfurt, Nurnberg, Breslau, and Spandau; and the Swiss branches are located in Berne, Basle, St. Gallen, and Zurich. Mrs. Valentine reports that weekly meetings are held in most of these societies, and that the average attendance throughout the Mission is 7S%. For class work, outlines were prepared and printed in German at the Mission headquarters, consisting of lessons on the life of Joseph Smith and on the subject "Salvation possible for all mankind," the latter subject being studied with the special object of leading up to the study of Genealogy. The Swiss branches, all recently visited by the President, were found to be in good working condition, half of the meeting days being given up to study and the other half to sewing and hand work. Mrs. Valentine was not able to visit the German societies after the outbreak of the war in 1914; but from the excellent reports sent her, she learned that the faithful sisters in these branches are more earnest than ever before in their Relief Society work, and in all the duties connected with it. Many of them have sustained severe losses, and their tender and aching hearts are filled with only one desire  that of doing good. Many Germans who were living in Switzerland at the outbreak of the war, enlisted immediately for service in Germany  the city of Basle, furnishing 1.500 men at the outset. Fourteen of the members of the Relief Society in this city were thus left without support of any kind while their husbands were hurriedly taken off to the German front. The Swiss government has also called many of its citizens