[Vol4 | March 1917 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 177 craving for other foods as well as to assist in breaking the way of the teeth through the gums. As the child gets older the cereals, oat meal, cream of wheat or other cereals cooked three hours in a double boiler so as to thoroughly dissolve the starch granules, with a little cream or milk, and sugar in small quantities, should be also introduced at this time. Sugar, however, is usually a dangerous food because the child forms a liking for the sugar and will not take any food unless it is sweetened excessively. Sugar plays an important part in the diet of the child, but in cases where there are any indications of indigestion or malnutrition the cereal foods should be given without sugar. T have found no difficulty in getting babies to take the cereals without sugar. Their liking for sugar comes only as the result of its long continued use. If the baby's teeth are slow in appearing it is sometimes necessary towards the end of the first year to allow half of a soft-boiled egg, some fruit in the form of orange juice, stew or baked apples, stewed prunes and some of the vegetables; pure? of peas, string beans, asparagus tips and carrots cooked until they mash readily with a fork, prepared preferably in milk gravy. Occasionally the mother may notice that particles of vegetables come through the intestine apparently undigested. Unless these food particles set up an irritation with the subsequent diarrhea no attention should be paid to this since the mineral salts are absorbed even though nature does not extract all of the food value from them. Cow's milk should be allowed with a normal child in a dilution of two-thirds milk and one-third water. If the child begins to vomit or there is trouble with the bowels the milk can be diluted still more. Gradually, however, the milk should be increased in amount until by the end of the first year the child should be getting the whole milk. As the time for weaning approaches, the mother can introduce one bottle a day of this modified cow's milk, gradually increasing the number of feedings with cow's milk and decreasing the breast feedings. In this way the child will be made to wean itself within a very short time and with no trouble whatever. Only in exceptional cases should the child be weaned suddenly. There is generally no necessity for this sudden breaking away from the breast feedings. In introducing new foods to the child one important point should always be born in mind, that every food introduced is new to the child's digestive apparatus. It is necessary, therefore, to adopt these foods gradually. A tolerance must be formed for every food that is given. In other words educate the digestive tract to handle these foods. Beginning with small quantities increase the amounts until a normal diet is reached. Very frequently mothers ask why it is that their children are unhealthy in spite of the fact that they exercise every precaution 
 of diet within their power, whereas, Mrs. Smith's babies are never sick and yet are allowed to eat everything that is on the table. The reason for this is apparent, the careful mother goes to the extreme in depriving her child of foods that it should have while the careless mother permits the child's appetite to be its own guide. As a result it gets those foods that nature calls for. The instinct for self-preservation manifests itself here very clearly. Animals will go for miles and lick up the dirt in their search for certain of the minerals. The same is true with children, guided by nature they take those foods that their system is demanding. Often I am consulted to know why children eat dirt. In some cases babies have picked large holes in the plaster in the wall and eaten it. This illustrates the necessity for a well balanced diet since nature will go to the extreme of leading the child to eat dirt and plaster in its efforts to obtain mineral salts. The points then to be remembered in the introduction of solid foods, is to be sure to get that variety of foods that will insure an abundant supply of all of the food elements. The following diet is merely suggestive but will give mothers an idea of what children should have during the second year. Cereals: Oat meal. Cream of wheat. Corn meal. Farina. Cooked three hours. They should be cooked the evening before serving and warmed up for breakfast in the morning. Eggs: Soft boiled or Poached. In some cases this should be given daily particularly if the child is poorly nourished, slow in walking and slow in teething. Meat: Scraped rare beef. This is an extremely valuable food at this period, in all cases where there is malnutrition or any symptoms of rickets. It is best prepared by broiling a thick steak over red hot coals until thoroughly heated through, then sliced long individually with a sharp knife and the juice and pulp scraped out with a table spoon. Spread this on bread or on a cracker with a little salt and allow the child to eat the rare beef. Broths: Chicken. Beef. Vegetable. These may be allowed at this time. GUIDE LESSONS. 179 Vegetables: Spinach. Asparagus. Squash. Strained stewed tomatoes. Carrots. Mashed cauliflower. String beans. Peas. Baked potato, may be permitted. All of these vegetables with the exception of the potato are rich in the mineral salts and should not be neglected. Fruits: Oranges. Scraped apple. Stewed or baked apple. Stewed prunes. Stewed figs. Fresh bottled fruits are permissible. Milk. Desserts: Rice. Tapicoa. Custards. Junket. Jello. amounts of ice cream. Small Bread: Graham. White. If the child is constipated, graham bread should be used exclusively A small dish of stewed figs given before breakfast and before going to bed will usually suffice to overcome this constipation. Where the diet is well balanced constipation will not result. QUESTIONS. 1 When should the first teeth appear? 2 What is the appearance of the teeth the signal for? _ 3. Why should so much care be exercised in the choice of foods during the second year? 
 4. Why does the child experience difficulty in getting through the second summer? 5. What care should he exercised in the introduction of the solid foods? 6. What are the symptoms of an exclusive milk diet during the second year? (This can he found in the previous lesson). 7. What foods should he emphasized in a child that shows symptoms of rickets or scurvy? 8. How would you proceed to overcome constipation? HISTORY OF II All. The painstaking historian, Carson F. Whitney, and the Deseret News Publishing house, have united in contributing one of the most useful and handsome books ever put upon the local market, in the new one volume. Popular History of Utah. The history itself has practically every important fact treated briefly and vividly, vet without bias or prejudice. The information is tabulated and arranged in the best modern style which makes it a handy reference work to keep at the student's elbow. The mechanical part is unquestionably superior and pleasing to the eve. We congratulate both author and publisher, As women we might have wished a chapter devoted to the very noble humanitarian work performed by the first Relief Society, the Young Ladies' Association, and the Primary Association of this Church. The club movement has also helped make history in various directions. There is a little mention of woman's suffrage which movement was but one of the many utilitarian efforts put forth by the intelligent organizers and state builders amongst the women of this state. However, it may be expecting too much for women to ask recognition at the hands of our men writers. Notwithstanding this little defect, we cheerfully recommend the book to all our societies and suggest that all ward societies should come into possession of one. To Genealogical Class Leaders. Finding it impossible to secure the Baring-Gould Surname book, a Committee was appointed to prepare a Surname book of our own. It was hoped that this book could be published this winter, but the task is too great, the results too important for a hasty preparation. We therefore ask our students to do the best they can with our Guide lessons, and we hope to have the book all ready for next season's fuller and more complete study. Susa Young Gates, Amy Brown Lyman, Lillian Cameron,. Surname Book Committee. HAVE YOU SUBSCRIBED FOR THE Relief Society Magazine IF NOT, DO IT AT ONCE Wedding Rings The wedding ring that's just right should be narrow, perfect oval (not flat), hardened to withstand wear, one piece of solid 18 karat gold, the kind we sell. We can make your old broad one over into the modern kind, using your old gold for $3.00  write about it, or come in and talk it over. McCONAHAY the Jeweler