[Vol30 | March 1943 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Theres Always a Burt]
Janet reached her arms up and put them around her mother's neck. "I am glad!" she whispered. "Babies smell so sweet in the back of the neck, don't they? May I help you make the clothes for it?"
Her parents smiled at her. They were all happy, all excited, making plans. But when Janet went into her bedroom she thought of Stevie, and went to look at him as he slept in his little bed in the next room. She wondered
THERE'S ALWAYS A WAY
if he knew; if that was what had troubled him. He stirred in his sleep, then opened his eyes and seeing Janet he began to whimper. Janet knelt down beside his bed, and put her arms around him.
"Oh, Janet!" he cried, "will we have to go? Won't they want us any more? I heard Mommy and Daddy say they were going to get a new baby of their own. And they didn't tell me, and I'm scared!"
"Of course we don't have to go," Janet reassured him. "We're their very own, too. It will just mean one more to play with. Think what fun you can have." Then she talked of games and pleasures Stevie particularly liked until he was quieted, and at last fell asleep.
IN her own bed Janet lay very still, thinking things out. She understood just how Stevie felt; she'd been a little bit afraid, herself, at first. But that was silly. Of course Mommy was glad she was going to have a baby. If they'd had their own mother, their very owntears stung Janet's eyes though she loved this new mother so dearlythere might have been other babies in time, and she and Stevie would have been delighted. So they should be delighted now. And she was! She told herself determinedly. She'd have to make Stevie see it, too.
But Stevie didn't want to see it, evidently. He awoke the next morning in the same stubborn, resentful mood he had shown the day before, and nothing Mrs. Allen nor Janet could say or do pleased him. They told him about the coming baby, just as carefully as they could.
203
Stevie glared at them and then, without a word, turned and banged out of the door, stamping his feet down to make all the angry noise he could. Janet looked up at Mrs. Allen in silent apology for her brother. If he doesn't stop, she told herself, he's going to spoil everything. Mommy was worried, Janet could see. She looked at the little girl and said, "I wouldn't have him feel like this for anything. Doesn't he understand that we love him dearly? No one can take Stevie's place with us!"
Janet knew this was true, now, but she knew it was going to be hard to make Stevie absolutely sure of it. "It's just because he's scared," she explained. "He's not very old, yet, and he hasn't forgotten living in the Home. It was nice there," she hurried to add, "but neither of us would care to go back."
"You darlings!" Mommy gathered Janet close, "You'll never have to go back."
"But three's quite a big family for Daddy, isn't it?"
Mommy laughed. "Not nearly big enough!" she cried. "I hope we have a lot of children so we can have a lot of fun!"
"Stevie will be all right afterwhile, I'm sure!" Janet went on. "But you know how boys are. It takes them quite a while to get used to a new idea."
Janet was surprised at herself, the way she was planning for the new baby, the joy with which she was looking forward to it. She had always loved the babies in the Home, had always been called on to help with them. Now she would have one right here, day after day, night
204
after night, to bathe, to dress
And Mommy was so generous in sharing her plans for the new baby. She took Janet shopping with her to buy little bootees and sacques, and Janet was learning to knit a shawl of the most beautiful soft pink yarn. Everything would be perfect, Janet told herself, if it weren't for Stevie.
AFTER that one night he hadn't mentioned the coming baby to his sister. He had scarcely talked to her at all. His gay, continuous chatter was stilled into a surly aloofness that made Janet's heart ache. He banged and kicked at things. He sat for long spells alone on the back porch, looking across the yard at nothing. His goodnight kiss for his father and mother were quick, sullen pecks, and when he sat on daddy's lap for the evening story he didn't snuggle down as he ought to do, but sat stiff and withdrawn and unhappy.
"What are we going to do with that fellow?" Daddy asked one night, running his hand up through his hair till he looked as worried and unhappy and almost as little boyish as Stevie himself. "We're doing everything we can, aren't we Janet?"
Mommy answered. "I think we'd better just ignore his attitude. Just go along as if nothing were wrong with him, talk about the baby, treat him as if he were as happy as we all are. I guess that is about all we can do." Then she smiled at Janet, "We couldn't manage at all without Janet," she said tenderly, and Janet was glad that she was being such a help, and sorry that Stevie felt so badly.
"It's just that I hate to have him
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMARCH 1943
unhappy," Daddy went on, still worrying over Stevie. "It could be so much fun for all of us. But you can't tell what a little fellow like Stevie will do when he is so unhappy. I can remember things like that when I was a kidoh, not just the same, but things that worried me so that I was going around all the time trying to figure a way out. I'm worried."
Janet couldn't bear to see Daddy worried like that. She went over and put her arms around him. "It's going to be all right," she promised, "I'll find something to take his mind off it."
"You're a honey!" Daddy squeezed her, then sat up straight. "Say, Sweetheart, maybe you have something there. Something to take his mind off itHasn't he been wanting a puppy? Why can't we get him one? Then he'll have something to think about besides himself and his 'broken nose.'"
Janet clapped her hands. "I believe that would do it!" she cried.
So the next morning at breakfast Daddy said with an air of great excitement, "Queenie's going to have pups very soon now, Stevie. Shall I speak to Mr. Wilson for one? Would you like one of Queenie's pups?"
Stevie nodded his head, "Uh-huh," he answered without enthusiasm. Janet exclaimed, "Won't that be fun, a baby puppy! When do you think they will come, Daddy?"
But Stevie wasn't interested at all, and later that morning when Queenie came over to Stevie as he sat on the back step, he pushed her away. "Go on home, Queenie!" he said. "Nobody wants you hanging round here!"
THERE'S ALWAYS A WAY
Janet, standing just within the kitchen, shook her head. Stevie certainly did feel badly when he'd treat Queenie that way, for Queenie, whose home was next door with the Wilsons, had been one of Stevie's best friends. Janet went out and sat down beside her brother.

There's Always A Way (Continued from page 207) He stood there, beseeching his father with his wide, blue eyes, and Mr. Allen and Janet could hardly bear it when two tears welled up and spilled down the cheeks they loved so dearly. "Daddy! Can't Ihave Spot? He's _ all alone, and he doesn't want me to leave him!" "Spot?" Mr. Allen pretended not to understand. Stevie nodded. "He knew me as soon as I came into the room," he explained, "And I knew him. He wants to be my dog, and I want him. The man said nobody else wants him. Please, Daddy?" Mr. Allen climbed down from the car. "Let's see about this," he said, and Janet hurried to follow them into the office again. "Why, of course Stevie can have the puppy if he wants him," the man smiled. "I think it would be fine. He's the kind of puppy that needs a boy like Stevie, and I'm sure Stevie is the kind of boy that needs a puppy like Spot." When the door to Spot's cage was opened, there was no doubt about this. Spot gave one leap and was in Stevie's arms, and he cuddled there, licking Stevie's face, and wiggling with joy all the way home. As soon as the car was stopped, Stevie leaped out and went running to the house, Spot scrambling about in his arms. "Mommy! Mommy!" Stevie was yelling at the top of his voice, gay and noisy as he used to be, "Come here. Come see Spot! Mommy!" Janet looked at her father and he looked at her. "Sometimes you wonder just what to do about things," she said, "but if you think hard enough, there's always a way." Her father bent and kissed her. "Do you know what, Sweetheart?" he said softly, "If they lined up all the little girls in the world, and all that ever will be in the world, and marched them past me, I know which one I'd pick. She's got freckles on her nose and her hair is the color of ripe sunshine" Janet was so happy she could almost cry. Stevie was happy again, her daddy was happy again, and now she and Mommy could settle down to the serious business of getting things ready for the new baby.
