There's Always A Way (Continued from page 207) He stood there, beseeching his father with his wide, blue eyes, and Mr. Allen and Janet could hardly bear it when two tears welled up and spilled down the cheeks they loved so dearly. "Daddy! Can't Ihave Spot? He's _ all alone, and he doesn't want me to leave him!" "Spot?" Mr. Allen pretended not to understand. Stevie nodded. "He knew me as soon as I came into the room," he explained, "And I knew him. He wants to be my dog, and I want him. The man said nobody else wants him. Please, Daddy?" Mr. Allen climbed down from the car. "Let's see about this," he said, and Janet hurried to follow them into the office again. "Why, of course Stevie can have the puppy if he wants him," the man smiled. "I think it would be fine. He's the kind of puppy that needs a boy like Stevie, and I'm sure Stevie is the kind of boy that needs a puppy like Spot." When the door to Spot's cage was opened, there was no doubt about this. Spot gave one leap and was in Stevie's arms, and he cuddled there, licking Stevie's face, and wiggling with joy all the way home. As soon as the car was stopped, Stevie leaped out and went running to the house, Spot scrambling about in his arms. "Mommy! Mommy!" Stevie was yelling at the top of his voice, gay and noisy as he used to be, "Come here. Come see Spot! Mommy!" Janet looked at her father and he looked at her. "Sometimes you wonder just what to do about things," she said, "but if you think hard enough, there's always a way." Her father bent and kissed her. "Do you know what, Sweetheart?" he said softly, "If they lined up all the little girls in the world, and all that ever will be in the world, and marched them past me, I know which one I'd pick. She's got freckles on her nose and her hair is the color of ripe sunshine" Janet was so happy she could almost cry. Stevie was happy again, her daddy was happy again, and now she and Mommy could settle down to the serious business of getting things ready for the new baby.