[Vol30 | March 1943 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: LESSON Work-and-Business Products]

Wilford Woodruff at Dedication of Salt Lake Temple Work -and- (Business New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 8 Preservation of Victory Garden Products (For optional use on Tuesday, May 11, 1943) HE thought of harvest and preservation of food is usually linked with autumnthe time when all the luscious, varicolored fruits and vegetables, brimful of vitamins and minerals, make such a definite appeal to the appetite. However, harvest time is not any One season in this country; our food crops are gathered the year round. But in spite of the continuous production, most small fruits and quick-ripening vegetables, such as strawberries, raspberries, peas, and asparagus are short lived and are seasonally found on the market. Because of this, and in order to have such foods in the daily diet, it is important to preserve them in such a way as to retain their natural flavor, form, and food value. Although many Victory Gardens were grown last year, there are indications that many more, on a much larger scale, will be grown during the coming season. In order that time, energy, and manpower will not be lost, every bit of the food produced should be utilized. 'That which is not used immediately, when fresh, should be preserved by storing, canning, drying, or freezing. Storing Some kinds of crops are better suited to storage than others. 'This should be kept in mind at the time of planting; but whatever kind is grown, its proper stage of maturity for successful storage must be considered. Underripe products shrivel and do not keep well, while overripe ones are usually inferior in quality. Vegetables and root crops when stored do not all require the same temperature nor humidity, and the storage periods differ. Beets, carrots, turnips, and similar vegetables keep best when stored at 32-36 F. With relative humidity of 85-95 per cent, and will keep four to five months. Squash and pumpkins require 40 F. With relative humidity of 50-70 per cent. Potatoes should be stored in a dark place with a relative humidity of 85-90 per cent, and keep best at 35-40 F. Higher temperatures cause them to sprout soon, and sometimes cause a decay in the center known as "black heart.' Apples like a cool, moist atmosphere and will keep crisp and firm many months if properly stored. In preparing fruits and vegetables for storage, those with any kind of bruise, crack, or injury shoud be separated from the more perfect ones; defective ones should be used first and only firm ones stored permanently. There are several types of storage, and the kind best suited to your circumstances and needs should be used. Parsnips, carrots, and horseradish can be left in the ground all winter with a covering of straw, and dug or pulled as needed. Next to this type, the mound is the simplest form of storage. A layer of straw is Page 222 222 put on the area of ground needed, then the vegetables are piled on it in mound shape and covered with a layer of straw and then a layer of soil. The thickness of the covering will depend upon the severity of the weather in a given locality. A storage pit is made by digging a hole one to one and one-half feet deep and three to four feet wide. The pit is lined with straw, and the vegetables are piled into it in pyramid shape and covered with straw and soil. Freezing weather requires a thick layer of soil. Indoor cellars, if cool and ventilated, are good, but the modern, heated home with a cement basement is not so good for the storage of raw fruits and vegetables. Outdoor cellars are built on a more elaborate scale, and are used when it is planned to store large amounts of food products. Canning Canning is a type of food preservation used more extensively by house- wives than any other type. All kinds of fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, and fish can be preserved in this way. The methods which may be used are known as: open kettle, pressure cooker, water bath, steamer, and oven. To be perfectly safe, however, in canning non-acid vegetables and meats of all kinds, a pressure cooker should be used. In using a pressure cooker, instructions for its proper use and care should be studied carefully to prevent accidents and waste of food. A pressure cooker is as safe as any other piece of equipment and is easy to handle if a few precautions are taken. With the open kettle method, fruits are cooked in syrup until just tender, packed in 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMARCH 1943

 sterile glass jars and sealed quickly and completely. Care must be taken with this method to prevent bacteria-laden air from getting into the jars when filled. 'The water bath method is used for fruits and tomatoes. With this method a kettle or wash boiler is used which has a tightly fitting lid and which is deep enough to permit covering the jars with two inches of water. A wooden or wire rack is fitted into the bottom of the kettle to keep the jars from breaking. The water is kept boiling during the entire process, otherwise, water from the boiler may replace some juice from the jars. The cooking period is counted from the time the water begins to boil vigorously. The steamer method is used for the same kind of products as the water bath. 'There must be a good circulation of steam to insure efficient sterilization of the products to be processed. A steamer may be made for the purpose, or the same equipment as that used for the water bath method may be used. Directions for operating the type of steamer used should be carefully followed. Oven method is recommended for berries and small fruits only, and should be used only when heat can be controlled. Peaches, pears, and other large fruits do not get sufficient sterilization with this method; a brownish discoloration often develops which does not always show up until the jars are opened. Drying Vegetables and fruits may be dried to remove sufficient moisture to prevent spoiling. Drying can be done at home in a dehydrator. Because fruit turns dark when cut or peeled, LESSON DEPARTMENT better results are obtained if this change can be brought about before the drying is done. Sulphuring or the use of a salt solution will help to accomplish this. The latter is easier when the drying is done at home, but it does not result in as good a finished product. In using this method the fruit is peeled, and then immersed in the solution (6 level tbs. Salt to 1 gal. Water). Fruit may also be dried without peeling. Non-acid vegetables and those which cannot be preserved by storing can be dried when a pressure cooker is not available. Freezing Like drying, freezing as a method of food preservation, especially for meats, was used in early days when no other method was available. But only within the last ten or twelve years has this method developed so that all the food values are retained and the products are like perfectly fresh ones. Quick freezing is not cold storage. In quick freezing the temperature. Is lowered so fast that the ice crystals do not enlarge and cut the delicate cell walls. When the products are defrosted, the original flavor and juices are still there. Not all foods, however, yield to this process in the same way, but as time goes on more foods are being successfully preserved by this method. So far, this is not a practical home process, but many housewives have access to community lockers and are learning to prepare their own products for freezing, or they pay a small 223 amount to have them prepared by a plant. Locker plants are mostly operated as a community project or by ice companies and meat dealers who rent space to their customers. Whichever process of preservation is used, the same care in the selection and preparation of the foods is necessary as though the foods were to be used immediately. Firm, wellmatured products should be carefully and quickly handled and thoroughly cleaned. All utensils, jars, caps, rubbers, and other containers must be perfectly sterilized. 'The time of the processing should be carefully calculated so the product will not be underdone or overdone. The careful storing of canned and dried foods is important. A cool, dark, dry atmosphere is best for food in glass containers. It is advisable to give foods dried in the sun a final heating in the oven to kill any microorganisms that might be present. Foods dried in a dehydrator will be free of any of these, but should be stored as soon as they are cool, in airtight cans, jars, or small paper bags. If dehydrated foods are put in cartons which hold only an amount sufficient for use at one time, then large amounts will not be disturbed nor exposed to the air unnecessarily. Note: Space will not permit detailed instructions on all the methods and procedures of preservation, but help and instructions may be obtained from the extension personnel of the various agricultural colleges. Every housewife should pre. Serve all the food that she can use. 

 MARCH 1943