[Vol30 | March 1943 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Anniversary of Dedication]

Anniversary of Salt Lake Temple Dedication
IT is with feelings of deep gratitude and thanksgiving to our Heavenly Father that the members of the Relief Society will recall on April 6, 1943, the fiftieth anniversary of the dedication of the Salt Lake Temple. In speaking of the Salt Lake Temple, Brigham Young once said:
I want this temple that we are now building to the name of our God, to stand for all time to come as a monument of the industry, faithfulness, faith, and integrity of the Latter-day Saints who were driven into the mountains.
During the fifty years since the dedication of this sacred edifice, many of the women of the Church have labored long and earnestly in this temple for themselves and their dead. The best way to express our feelings to the Lord on the great privileges and blessings which are ours this day in being permitted to enter temples and receive endowments therein is to show forth an increase of diligence and works in laboring in our temples.
NOTES TO THE FIELD
Relief SocietyStake Quarterly Conference
IN stakes where the regular sessions of stake Quarterly Conference are concluded in the afternoon and where an additional evening session is planned, Relief Society, if invited by the stake presidency, may share in the use of this Sunday evening session during the summer quarter, June 13 through October 3. Stake Relief Society presidents should ascertain from their respective stake presidents whether or not they are to be invited to participate in this Sunday evening meeting. This should be done sufficiently early to allow for adequate preparation.
The following suggestive program has been prepared by the General Board for use on this occasion:
Program Theme: "By their fruits ye shall know them."
I. Scriptural reading with music accompaniment. (5 minutes)
II. Symposium: Subject"The Vital Strength of Relief Society in Meeting the Emergent Needs of Today."
A. Introduction.................................................................Chairman
B. Phases of subject to be treated:
1. The practical, physical needs as they are met by Relief Society in general, and particularly by our stake. (10 minutes) Stake Relief Society President
2. Correct attitudes formed through authentic, timely information; and intellectual understanding. (7 minutes)
3. Relief Society a spiritual compass to its members. (10 minutes)
C. Summary........................................................................Chairman
III. Scriptural reading Numbers 6:24-26, with music accompaniment. (3 minutes)
"The Lord bless thee, and keep thee: The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee: The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace."
The complete program with detailed suggestions for its presentation will be mailed to each Relief Society stake president.
Publication of Magazine Honor Roll Delayed
THE honor roll of stakes and missions published in recognition of those Relief Societies and their Magazine representatives reporting a 1942 subscription list equal to seventy-five percent or more of their total Relief Society membership, was
Page 188
to have appeared in the March 1943 issue of the Magazine according to an announcement of the General Board made in the Relief Society Magazine, May 1941, page 303.