[Vol30 | March 1943 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Triumph Alice Morrey Bailey Back of Front page]
Triumph,' by Beatrice F. Stevens, 'In Thy Form' by Florence Jepperson Madsen, 'O My Father,' 'Our Mountain Home So Dear,' and 'Though Deepening Trials.'"
Susan Inkley is president of this ward Relief Society.
Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho)
ALICE ANDERSON, secretary of the Ammon Ward Relief Society
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMARCH 1943,
reports that this ward presented a pageant, "The Relief Society Wheel of Progress," on March 17, 1942. The women shown in the accompanying picture represent the spokes in the Wheel of Progress. These spokes were Inspiration, Spirituality, Charity, Visiting Teachers, World Peace, Education, Welfare, and Singing Mothers. Sister Anderson says: "We were proud of the program and of the large crowd in attendance. The evening concluded with dancing." Vera Lee is president of this ward Relief Society.
Teton Stake (Driggs, Idaho)
THE centennial was very successfully celebrated in the Driggs Ward of the Teton Stake, according to Maude Jeppson, first counselor in the Relief Society presidency. The observance included a pageant, "The Glory of Womanhood," a poem about the general presidents of Relief Society read by Bessie Kimball, musical numbers including selec-
CENTENNIAL "WHEEL OF PROGRESS," AMMON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, IDAHO FALLS STAKE
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
217
DRIGGS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS HONORED AT SPECIAL CENTENNIAL PARTY, MARCH 18, 1942
Left to right: Mary Anderson Henrie, Hannah Bowerman Price, and Manette Robison Hillman
tions by the Relief Society chorus, remarks by the ward bishop and Relief Society stake president, and the playing of the transcribed recording from President Grant and President Lyman. Also, a banquet was served for all married women of the ward and their partners. Tables were decorated in blue and gold, using blue vases filled with daffodils. There was also a large birthday cake. Past ward presidents were served first and honored with blue and gold banners, which they wore. On March 18 another party was held honoring six older members who could not attend the Tuesday celebration due to the severe weather conditions. Three of these sisters are shown in the accompanying picture. They are: Mary Anderson Henrie, over eighty years of age, who served for many years as president of the Driggs Ward Relief Society; Hannah Bowerman Price, first president of the Driggs Ward Relief Society; and Manette Robison Hillman, who has done a wonderful service as a midwife. According to Sister Jeppson: "The top layer of the birthday cake was served to these sisters, and they were presented with flowers, programs, and typewritten copies of the song 'A Hundred Thousand Strong.' A recording of this song, made in the ward, was played for them, and the record received from the General Board was also played. They were thrilled beyond expression." Ruley Moss is president of this ward Relief Society.
St. Johns Stake (St. Johns, Arizona)
A NEWSPAPER clipping sent to us from St. Johns, Arizona, gives a detailed account of the centennial celebration held jointly by the St. Johns Stake and the St. Johns Ward on March 17, 1942. Two hundred
 MARCH 1943
CENTENNIAL DINNER, AFTON NORTH AND SOUTH WARDS, STAR VALLEY STAKE
guests were in attendance. According to the report, the activities included the following: presentation of the cantata "Resurrection Morning," written by the late B. Cecil Gates; music by a string trio; a pageant portraying the organization of Relief Society and depicting services rendered by the Society; the honoring of women noted for Relief Society service; and an antique and heirloom display. Old-time dancing concluded the festivities of the evening. Adding greatly to the color and atmosphere of the occasion were the old-time costumes worn by those in attendance. The recreation hall and chapel were decorated for the event with bowls and baskets of lovely spring flowers. Mrs. H. L. Allen of the stake board served as general chairman for the centennial. Clara R. Sherwood is president of the St. Johns Stake Relief Society, and Maud B. Jarvis is president of the St. Johns Ward. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyoming ) "THE Afton North and Afton South Ward Relief Societies met jointly to observe the centennial on March 17, 1942. From an attractively printed souvenir program which was sent to us, we note that the activities consisted of a dinner (see accompanying picture) at which toasts and responses were given, music by Singing Mothers, a play, "Memories and Reality," written and directed by Martha Kennington, and a "television" broadcast featuring the presidents of the Afton Ward Relief Societies since the first organization in 1887. The printed souvenir gave a brief history of the fifty-five years of Relief Society in Star Valley, listed the names of all ward Relief Society presidents, and all Relief Society officers and members of the centennial year. The present presidents of these wards are Kathleen P. Burton (Afton North) and Leora C. Barrus (Afton South). NOTES FROM THE FIELD CENTENNIAL TREE-PLANTING, MAY 10, 219 1942 Burley Stake Relief Society Burley Stake (Burley, Idaho) PROM Agnes C. Hoggan, president of Burley Stake Relief Society, comes this brief report of this stake's centennial tree-planting ceremony. "On May 10, 1942, our Stake Relief Society Board planted an arborvitae on our stake tabernacle grounds. Our stake president, R. O. Hatch, participated, taking a moving picture of the ceremony. Members from each of our nine wards were present." HOYTSVILLE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION, MARCH 17, 1942 Hoytsville Ward Relief Society, Summit Stake 220 Sumunut Stake (Coalville, Utah) DNA M. TREMELLING ssubmitted this account of the Hoytsville Ward centennial program: "On the evening of March 17, 1942, we presented an original pageant in two parts, entitled 'From Out of the Past. The first part, 'In My Garlen of Memories,' portrayed the history of the ward organization in dialogue form out of our 'Book of Memories.' "The second part depicted the first organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. A lighted candle in a lovely sctting 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEMARCH 1943