Mrs. Phoebe Young Beatie By Annie Wells Cannon "I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: "That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many."ŚRomans 16:1-2. UITE applicable are the above words of the Apostle Paul to dear. Sister Beatie, ' whose "tired spirit long waiting to be freed" was released by the angel of death Saturday morning, August 22, 1931. The passing of Sister Beatie marks the second of President Brigham Young's lovely and gracious daughters to go this summer. Sister Beatie led, generally, an even and placid life. She was blessed beyond many with those material things which bring ease and comfort and she loved to bestow of her bounty on others less fortunate than herself. Her benefactions, not publicly known, were generous; she believed firmly in the doctrine that "it is more blessed to give than to receive." She was one of the most gifted of her father's daughters. Like many of them she had a natural inclination for music and was a fluent speaker. Both these gifts fitted her excellently well for her Relief Society work, in which she engaged for many years. She was a signer of the articles of incorporation of the Relief Society and served as a General Board Member for many years. During the period of Sister Beeatie's membership on the General Board she engaged in many. Important activities. She traveled extensively to the different stakes teaching the people and was an active participant in all the deliberations connected with the work, She attended the National Council of Women in Washington, D. C. And other affiliated gatherings of her organization. A most valuable piece of her work on the 'General Board was the chairmanship of the Relief Society nurse school. For a period of many years, while she held that office, her home was like a house of refuge to the young women who came from the different settlements to take the nurse course. They always found a welcome there, and she cared for them in a most motherly way until she could find a permanent boarding place for them. This she did without thought of remuneration. Her hospitality was proverbial. Phebe Young Beatie was born in Salt Lake City, August Ist, 1854. Her mother, Clarissa Ross Chase Young, died when Phebe was a very little child and her father, President Young, placed Phebe with her two sisters Mary and Maria and her brother Willard, in the care of his wife Zina, who gave these motherless children the same loving care and attention she gave her own daughter, and they in turn gave most filial affection to "Aunt Zina." Phebe attended her father's private school, which was held in a very pretentious school house, for that day, behind the high rock wall just east of the Eagle Gate,- and later she was a student at the University MRS. PHEOBE YOUNG BEATIE of Deseret. She was married when still in her teens to Walter J. Beatie, for many years bishop of the Seventeenth Ward. Their hospitable home was the scene of many fine parties and social affairs. Many 563 home of Brother and Sister Beatie. Phoebe was present when her - father organized the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Society, the forerunner of the Y. L. M. I. A., in the Lion House. PHOEBE YOUNG BEATIE distinguished visitors to Salt Lake City, among them the late Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Kate Waller Barratt and other suffrage leaders and social workers, were entertained in the beautiful She was called to work in the Salt Lake Temple when it was dedicated in 1893, and worked there many years. She was a charter member of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and an active member 564 of the Unity Club, one of the early literary societies in Utah. She was a devoted wife and mother and her four surviving children, Mrs. Josephine B. Burton, Mrs. Hazel B. Kimball, wife of Edward P. Kimball, Tabernacle orRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ganist, N. Ross Beatie and W. S. Beatie, as the years pass will indeed have cherished memories of their beloved mother. She was a beautiful woman, full of grace and tenderness. Her kindly ways and gentle deeds will not be forgotten
