Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (Tirst Week in December ) Select Readings: Second Nephi, chapters 1 to 4 inclusive. Make notes, first of the prophecies mentioned, and next of the doctrines taught. Tue Boox or MorMon—LITERARY ASPECTS or THE NEPHITE RECORD It is sometimes urged that the Book of Mormon has no literary merits at all. This is said because in its superficial aspects that volume does not conform to the standards which we have acquired in writing. The book, we are told, abounds in errors of grammar, it uses too many words to tell its story, and its structure is not what it might be. All this we must concede, if we are to be honest with ourselves. But what of it? Scott and Cooper and Dickens are by no means impeccable in their grammar and rhetoric, and much that they say could be left out with no loss to the effectiveness of their stories. Are we then to throw these authors into the discard, quit reading such books as Ivanhoe, the Last of the Mohicans, and David Copperfield? Not at all. Because these writers have qualities that are far higher than mere grammatical and _ rhetorical correctness. They all tell capital stories, they all have interesting situations, they all have vivid characterization, and at least one of them has rare humor and pathos. Stevenson and Walter Pater have perfect style, but as story tellers they are not in the same class as Scott, Cooper, and Dickens. It is much the same with the Bock of Mormon. Although the work may be deficient in some of the minor qualities of style, that is no sign that it has no literary values whatever. For the fact is that the Nephite record has some very striking and beautiful expressions, and it abounds in a variety of characters that stand out in the mind. Perhaps it will not be amiss here to inquire how it came about that the literary style of the Book of Mormon is what it ls, especially since its literary defects have been made the basis" for attacks on its divine origin. Is the language of the Nephite record the Lord's or Joseph Smith's? If, on the one hand, the language is the Lord's how is it that he does not speak in the most perfect English, as one would naturally expect that he would? The fact that the style of the 'book is imperfect, on this assumption, would go to throw doubt on its divine origin—in the estimation of adverse critics. And then, on the other hand, if the language of the work is the Prophet's, how can we reconcile that fact with its claim to being an inspired product? Here, then, is our problem. The only solution of the problem is to admit that the language is the Prophet's, although the thoughts, the material, of the book was revealed. It is a safe assumption that the Lord does not do for man what man can do for himself. That would be to dwarf man's powers, to stay his development. 'Joseph Smith did not know, and could not know, anything 588 about the Lehites and the Jaredites. So God revealed it to him. Likewise the Prophet knew nothing of the language they used. Hence the Lord prepared the urim and thummim for the purpose of enabling him to understand that ancient tongue. He did know English, however— the English that! Was spoken in his neighborhood, the English that one in his circumstances could have got without training. Here is a passage from the Doctrine and Covenants which shows indirectly how the translation of the Book of Mormon was accomplished: Oliver Cowdery wanted to trarislate. He asked the Propliet for the privilege. His request was granted. But when he tried, he failed to get the required results. Then caine the explanation in a revelation to him. Through Joseph. "Behold, you have not understood; you ire supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is right. But if it be not right, yeu shall have no such feelings, but you shall have a stupor of thought that shall cause you to forget the thing which is wrong; therefore you cannot write that which is sacred save it be given you from me. Now, if you had known this you could have translated." And here are some conclusions that we must inevitably draw from these statements: First, that the way described in the passage was most likely the way in which the Prophet translated. Secondly, the translator having got the thought on the plates, he set it down in such language as he had at his - forceful way. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE command, endeavoring to express it exactly as it was on the plates. Thirdly, after it had been set down, the translator was to decide whether it was absolutely correct or not by the way he felt; if it was right, his bosom "burned within him," and if it was wrong he had a "stupor of thought." Fourthly, the whole process was carried on under the divine influence and power, because it was "sacred.". Incidentally it may be remarked here, as growing out of the statement made above, that the circumstancés connected with the appearance of the Book of Mormon and the effort put forth in the translation of it, was a primary means of educating Joseph Smith in the work he was to do in the world.—}- First, his long wait for the plates taught him patience, obedience, and knowledge of the ways of the Lord. Secondly, the effort he expended on the translation of it trained, dise˘iplined his mind in the same ways the mind is always trained and disciplined. Thirdly, the time he spent on the translation, coupled with the effort he put forth, gave him a knowledge of the principles of salvation that, it would seem, nothing else could have given. For it is well known that to translate a work of any kind, especially if it be a work containing thought, forces one to think clearly. And in the case of the Prophet the mind was, in a way, checked up in its thinking. So far as matters of style are concerned, three things may be said of the Book of Mormon. One has already been suggested—isolated expressions of truth in a rather A second is the theme. Is this high or low? And the third is clearness, as compared with the Bible. Vigor, clearness, and a high theme are literary qual- LESSON DEPARTMENT ities that are not to be overlooked in writing. Let us take up each of these in turn. Some of the rather striking things in the Book of Mormon—purple patches, in fact—may be given here. Not all that can be found there by any means, but enough to give an idea as to whether, in point of phrasing alone, the Nephite record is as contemptible as is sometimes represented. 1. "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy. 2. "I would exhort you that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every good gift, and touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing. ") 3. "The Lord giveth no erond ment unto the children of men, save he shall prepare a way for them that they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth of them. 4. "O, that I were an angel and could have the wish of my heart, that I might go forth and speak with the trump of God, with a voice to shake the earth, and cry repentance unto every people. /7.. 4 / 5. "Ye have called me your king; and if I, whom ye call your king, do labor to serve you, then ought ye not to labor to serve one another? And also if I, whom ye call your king have spent his days in your service and in the service of God without meriting any thanks from you, O how you ought to thank your Heavenly Father. 6. "I will tell you of the wrestle which I had before God, before I received a remission of my sins. Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forest; and the words of my father, which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my 589 heart. And my soul hungered. And I kneeled down before my Maker, and cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication. And all the day did I cry unto him, and when the night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the heavens. And there came a voice unto me, saying, 'Enos, thy sins are forgiven, and thou shalt be blessed.' And I knew that God could not lie; wherefore my guilt was swept away. 7. "If it were possible that you could have just men to be your kings, * * * then it would be expedient that ye should have kings to rule over you. * * * But because all men are not just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you. For behold, how much iniquity doth one king cause to be committed, and what destruction. * * * Ye cannot dethrone an iniquitous king, save it be through much contention and the shedding of much blood. For he hath his friends in iniquity, and he keepeth his guards about him. He teareth up the laws of those who have reigned in righteousness before him, and enacteth laws after the manner of his own wickedness. Thus an unrighteous king doth pervert the ways of all righteousness. It is expedient that such abominations should come to an end. "Therefore, choose you by the voice of this people, judges, that ye may be judged according to the laws which have been given by your fathers. It is not common that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right, but it is common for the lesser part of the people to desire that which is not right. Therefore, this shall ye observe and make it your law—to do your business by the voice of the people. And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose 590 iniquity, then is the time that God will visit you with destruction." These passages are well worth attention from more than one angle. They are not inappropriately worded. They are crystal clear on their face. The thought in all of _ them points to the universal in human life—to truths, that is, which hold good under all conditions of life. And at least one of them, the first, suggests an answer to an ageold question as to the purpose of life. Observe the use of the word "Joy" instead of "happiness." Every book has a general atmosphere, by reason of which it is good or bad or merely neutral in its effects. Ifa book is wholesome, it is largely because it has a good atmosphere. And atmosphere is created and sustained by means of ideas and characters chiefly. What is the atmosphere of the Book of Mormon? That atmosphere is well put by one of the early converts to "Mormonism''—George Cannon, father of the late president George Q. Cannon. He said, "No wicked man could write such a book as this; and no good man would write it, unless it were true and he were commanded of 'God to do so." Every book, if it can be called a book at all, has a theme also. A theme is a general thought, or purpose, running through jt like a thread; it is the thought for which the work was produced. Whether the book is a work of fiction, an historical narrative, or the development of a subject through explanation or argument, it must nevertheless have a theme by which the details are tied together. And the work is valuable, other things remaining the same, according as its theme is high or low, universal or local in its appeal. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The theme of the Book of Mormon is expressed in what may be called the preface to that volume, written by Moroni. It is "the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the eternal God, manifesting himself unto all nations." } If there can be a higher theme than that, one would be hard put to find it. First, it clears up an ambiguity of the New Testament as to the divinity of Christ. And then, secondly, it shows the universality of idea of God's interest in mankind. As for the characters in the Book of Mormon, the topic is too large for treatment in this place. So this aspect of the subject is left to a question, and may be dealt with at the discretion of the/teacher. Questions 1. How important is the form in which an idea or a book is cast as compared with the idea or the theme? Explain with reference to the Book of Mormon. 2. Read or quote some of the statements of the Record, to show (a) their good phrasing, (b) their truth, and (c) their universality. 3. What is meant by a theme? Give the themes of works like Silas Marner, by George Eliot, or /nfluencing Human Behavior, by Overstreet. Why is the theme of the Book of Mormon a high one? 4. Take some one of the characters in the Nephite Record and, after reading all that the Record says about them, work up an essay or a short speech in which you give (a) a brief account of what the characters did, (b) what they said and thought, and (c) what they were in their qualities. Be sure, however, not to make anything up, but to have authority in the text for everything you say. LESSON DEPARTMENT 5. How do you account for the errors in grammar and composition in the Book of Mormon? What 591 bearing does the answer to this question have on the claims to divine origin for the work? Work and Business (Second Week in December) WVatchword: "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be unto this house."—Luke 10:5. Text: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God."—Mark 10:14. TEACHER'S Topic FoR DECEMBER From this text we may draw three lessons. The first is our duty to our children in directing them to Jesus; the second, in keeping ourselves active and interested in, and devoted to the Church; the third, that in order to enter the kingdom of God one must have childlike faith, humility and love. Interpreting the meaning of our Savior into modern language, we would translate the text into words something like this: "Encourage and teach your children to come to me; persuade them by a righteous example and influence to love me; do not hinder them, nor cause them to turn from me by your own thoughtlessness and indifference; because children are naturally full of faith and sweetness and _ friendliness and love." Children, in their early years, live in a world apart from ours. They are very near to heaven and things spiritual. Before they are very old, however, they begin to feel their own personality, and the possibilities of self. In developing this new found individuality they are certain to become self-willed and intractable. These early human tendencies checked and directed in a jproper manner will avert improper thoughts and the forming of little habits which may lead into disobedience and sin. While they are young it is a simple matter to instil into their eager, searching minds, the lovely truths of our Gospel. They can be readily brought to understand that cleanness is more attractive than foulness; that honesty is more gratifying than dishonor; that harmony with parents and with Jesus is more delightful than the unhappiness which discord and opposition bring. There is small danger of children disregarding the admonition of their parents if they have been taught to love, honor and obey them. Children need love and sympathy. They should always have the deep consciousness of the love their parents have for them. Without lowering our standards or retracting from our position of integrity, we would do well to try to understand the modern viewpoint. While still holding fast to our ideals, we should acquire a sympathy for the struggles of youth. Afraid of life and ignorant of its problems, they assume a bravado which they do not feel. Assailed on every hand by doubts, skepticism, and iniquity, unless they are held securely in the bonds of love, they are bound to wander. Youth resents regulations and restrictions unless back of these is the love that will make them appreciate and understand the reason for guidance. It is impossible to ry 592 legislate virtue into people. We cannot force righteousness on anyone. Jesus taught us that. All through the Bible, and our other Church works, we read exhortations to parents to lead their children in the ways of God. "And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. "And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: "And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shall talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. "And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes. "And thou shalt write them upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the posts of thy house, and on thy gates." —Deuteronomy 6:5-9. "Only take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life: but teach them thy sons, and thy sons' sons;'—-Deuteronomy 4:9. Environment, example, and attending of meetings are necessary and vital. But there must be something more. For every flower in your garden there are perhaps a thousand weeds. For every holy thought in the world there are a thousand vicious, destructive ones. Children, more than adults, come in contact with these. Unless young people are securely grounded in faith, and trained in discrimination, they will succumb to the influences by which they are constantly attacked. Literature (Third Week in December ) THE SHorT STorY IN SWEDEN Sweden has given at least three world figures to literature in this last half century: August Strindberg, a novelist, dramatist, and story writer of contemporary Scandinavian life; Selma Lagerlof, known best for her novels and tales that depict the soul of the northern peasant, and who writes with imagination and spiritual fervor; and Per Hallstrom, a scientist who evolved an almost perfect form of writing short stories, the greater part of which dwelt on the theme of death. All of them belong -to the twentieth century, Strindberg, the oldest, dying in 1912, and the other two still living and writing. In the text there is a story from each, but because Selma Lagerlof, whose writing is nearest our own beliefs is a woman and one of the great world figures, she will be given the major consideration in this lesson. It is doubtful if any class instructor will want to use the Strindberg story. He was the leader of Swedish Naturalism and his "Love and Bread" is Naturalism in one of its most unpleasant forms. In addition it would take a great deal of studying to understand him. He was a restless soul—an atheist, a simple believer in the Bible, an intense Socialist, an extreme anti-Socialist, a worshipper of Nature, a devout follower of civilization, a humanist, and one of the greatest woman haters of all history—and three times married. All his life he was LESSON DEPARTMENT a solitary man, stricken with a persecution mania, and never finding peace. But his influence will be felt, not only in our time, but also in the ages to come. His genius touched all forms of writing; it was greatest in the drama. There have been few writers who have been able to throw aside men's thin surface personality and get down to the elementary human as has Strindberg. However, he is not for every reader. It was in the 90's that Per Hallstrom became the great master of short story writing in Sweden. He was born in Stockholm in 1866. While he was still a young man he came to America and lived in Chicago as a scientist. Even in his youth he was ruled almost solely by his intelligence, and he did not find America to be a land of promise— for him at least. He went back to Sweden and began to write seriously. He can describe the realities of life well enough, yet his imagination rules his writings. Swedish subjects did not always give him enough play for this quality, and from time to time he ventured into the lore of the Southern countries and into the life of the Middle Ages. Some of his best known stories are: "Stray Birds," "Purple," "A Secret Idyl,"' "A Humble Tragedy," "Melchior," and "The Falcon." Death, in some form moves through all of them. "The Falcon," found in the text, is a masterpiece of the Medieval story. In it beauty and horror are almost inseparable. From the standpoint of short story, technique— smoothness of plot, handling of characters, harmony of style and content, and touch of fantasy~—it could scarcely be bettered. Each word is chosen as carefully as an old master selected his colors. It is the story of a cruel nobleman who caused the death of a peas- 593 ant lad, because the lad had rescued the nobleman's favorite falcon and failed to return it. Hallstrom uses a favorite device of Medieval stories —very much like the one Shakespeare used in "The Merchant of Venice." He has the selfish nobleman resurrect an ancient law, one whereby a person who had stolen a falcon with the mark of a knight on his foot must pay a sum of silver or six ounces of flesh, torn from his ribs by the beak of a famished falcon. The story is filled with wordjeweled pictures: the Iceland falcon flying, Renaud's joy in this noble bird and his mysticism, the proud Medieval ladies who came to see the death scene, and a dozen others. The last sentence makes a perfect ending. It shows the viciousness of the nobleman, the cruelty of the boy's death, and the meting of justice to the falcon that had dared to forget its master. Some instructors may prefer this story because of its perfection of form and style, but there are two reasons against its choice. It is not representative of Swedish life and its pervading tone is that of sadness. Selma Lagerlof reveals the country people of Sweden. She was of the country herself, born in Vermland an 1850 on the estate. Called Marbacka. Her family had lived in Vermland for hundreds of years; she grew up loving and revering her home and its customs, its legends, and its people. During her younger years the upper class to which she belonged still lived a festive and hospitable life on the country estates. The influence of these years is found in many of her books. It was Miss Lagerlof's intention to become a teacher. She went to Stockholm to prepare for the examinations which all prospective teach- 594 ers must pass. As she studied, she thought often of the old stories and decided to combine them into a novel. The Northern countries in those days were writing with sober realism, and her book was to be filled with gayety and knightly chivalry. Not until the 90's, when she decided to forsake the ways of contemporary realism, was she able to produce her book. "Gosta Berling's Saga" was its title, and it is one of the great books of all time. It is a story swarming in characters and plots, and all are bound together by the charming and shiftless figure of Gosta Berling. In the fairy tale she has also won a permanent place. In this form she gives most of her psychology and philosophy of life. Like Hans Christian Anderson she gives a character to animals and life to inanimate things, but her tales have one serious drawback. She sometimes overdoes the moral and she occasionally falls into child-like sentimentality. She has a deep and cheerful faith and her books all teach love and charity and tolerance. She is extremely popular in Sweden. In 1909 she was awarded the Nobel prize in literature, and since then her fame has gone into many countries. Critics say that four of her books, at least, will become part of the world's literary heritage: "Gosta Berling's Saga," "Jerusalem," a story of the religious movement among the peasants, "The Adventures of Nils," collections of Swedish fairy tales and folk lore, and "The Christ 'Legends," charming tales of miracles. Briefly summing her characteristics, she is a vigorous and original writer with a vivid and inventive imagination, and imbued with a true Christian regard for her fellow men. For this series of lessons it would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE have been fortunate if the textbook authors had chosen one of Miss Lagerlof's Christ tales in the place of "The Eclipse." However, the "Christ Legends" is available in translation and some instructors may be able to find the book and use a different story. "The Christmas Rose," found in the collection or in a book called '"Sweden's Best Stories" is beautifully told and will be an especially appropriate subject for this time of year. "The Eclipse" is the story of an old peasant woman and tells of country life in a wild and solitary region. In the guise of the old country woman the author gives her philosophy of life—faith in the new day; courage to live it; and thankfulness for every manifestation of God no matter how humble a person's circumstances may be. Prosaic as the subject is, Miss Lagerlof shows us a glimpse in old Beda's worship of the sun, of the mysticism that permeates all her writing. Miss Lagerlof's description of the people in this story will remind some of us of life in the remote villages of Utah and other western states a few decades ago: the men working all day in the fields; the children in school; the older children gone from the village to far away places; the women working in their cabins but anxious for companionship.; and the peaceful Sabbath. But there is one great difference. These Swedish people, living close to the dark mountains, were often without the sun. Another difference was the women's fear of pleasure, merely for the sake of pleasure. They must have some good reason to come together for an afternoon of talk and eating of specially prepared food.. And it must never be on a holy or Sabbath day. Old Beda wanted to give a party, LESSON DEPARTMENT but she could think of no good reason to have one. She had only a cat—and anyone knew it was foolish to give a party for a cat. In her searchings she found that there was to be an eclipse of the sun. She gave a party; yet she was a little fearful of giving the explanation. It was not until the warmth of the newly eclipsed stn touched the women and made them cheerful that she dared to sing: "Thy shining sun goes up again, I thank thee, O my Lord!" This story with its one well-defined character and its lack of plot is quite typical of part of Miss Lagerlof's work. It portrays the people in a sympathetic light; describes the country she loves; and is as simple and sincere in style and structure as the people of whom she wrote. Because it is a story of character and local setting, it must be read and not re-told to be appreciated. Questions on "The Eclipse" 1. In what ways is this story typically Swedish? In what ways does it have a universal appeal? 2. What do you know of Miss Lagerlof's philosophy of life from reading this story? 3. Will you be able to recognize other of her stories after reading' this one? Why? 4. Does this story contain any of the mysticism that runs through her works? 5. Was Beda a pleasant, well balanced person? Give reasons for your answer. 6. Why did Beda choose to celebrate the day of the eclipse? How did she make the other women appreciate her feeling for the sun? 7. Why was it necessary for the women to find a special day before they could celebrate? 595 8. What things in this story show the seriousness of the Northern people? 9. Briefly describe the every-day lives of these people. 10. Which is emphasized the most in "The Eclipse," plot or character? *Annunciation Day, the 25th of March, sometimes called "Our Lady's Day.' Supposed to be the date when the angel Gabriel announced to Mary the incarnation of Christ. Suggestive list for further reading in Scandinavian literature (English translations ): Bjornson—"T hree Comedies," "Armljot Glline,' "Beyond Our Power," "The New System," "Poems and Songs." Bojer—'"The Face of the World," "The 'Great Hunger," "A Pilgrimage." Hallstrom—*Selected Short Stories," Hamsun—"Children of the Age," "Dreamers," "Growth of the Soil," "Hunger." Ibsen—'"'Collected Works." Lagerlof—"Christ Legends," "Gosta Berling's Saga," "Emperor of Portugallia," "From a Swedish Homestead," 'Further Adventures of Nils,' "Marbacka," "The Holy City." Nexo—"Days in the Sun," '"'Pelle, the Conqueror." Rolvaagt—"Giants in the Earth," "Peder Victorious." Strindberg—''Plays," First Series, Second Series, Third and Fourth Series, "Married." Sigrid Undset—''Jenny." Modern Swedish Masterpieces-— "Norway's Best Stories," "Sweden's Best Stories,' 'Denmark's Best Stories." 596 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (Fourth Week in December) PERsoNALITY Stupy: INFLUENCING PEOPLE By LETTERS AND CONVERSATION (Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 71-139) What degree of ability do you now have to use your mother tongue correctly and effectively in the various situations of life? Are you making any really serious efforts to further improve whatever of this ability you may have? Since most of us have little occasion to write for publication or to deliver public addresses we may do well in this discussion to confine ourselves to the more common matters of letter-writing and conversation. Much has already been said and written about how to improve our use of language. Most of these discussions, however, take up literary matters—things we must know about grammar, composition and the more mechanical aspects of the problem. It is our purpose to emphasize another important point of view—one that is seldom given the prominence that it should have. It is that both writing and speaking are essentially psychological enterprises. Language is an important form of human behavior. It is the chief means we use to stimulate our associates so as to influence their behavior in some desired manner. Also by means of language we respond to many of the stimuli which affect us. It is a means we have of expressing our personalities. Our text has a good deal to say about this point of view. How foolish it is to believe that the mere matter of taking one or more courses in rhetoric, composition or oral expression is enough to make one's writing and conversation worthwhile, artistic and effective! The lack of such opportunities do not mean that one has nothing of genuine worth to express nor that one cannot cultivate the ability to say it well. Overstreet is quite in agreement with other thoughtful writers when he insists that it is the person behind the words that counts. _ Consider' Lincoln's Gettysburg address and "note how inevitably personality shines through the printed words." "Whether we will it or not," says Overstreet, "it is the personality back of the writing which gives the writing such power or lack of power as it possesses."' And then he adds, "the problem of effective writing is most deeply of all psychological." Professor Suzzallo recognizes that back of all worthwhile communications are always worthwhile personalities for says he: ok & > there can be no cultivation of the power to use English without an adequate development of enriched thought to be expressed. * * * We cannot transmit the power of using English. In the last analysis good English usage is a matter of selfcultivation." It will be recognized that we are again stressing the main theme of our courseée—the importance of livwing a rich and abundant life. This is where Jesus placed the emphasis, for he says, "I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly." (Jno. 10:10). And we must not substitute the ability to repeat this or sim- LESSON DEPARTMENT ilar phrases for a sincere effort to actually live the life. Now of course this "life" or personality enhancement that we so frequently bring to the front has many different phases and we shall be unable to discuss here more than a few of these. Just at this time we | wish to make a few observations about the tendency we all have to) go to seed in relation to language problems. Be quite satisfied with superficial evidences of life such as the ability to walk about, to eat three meals a day, and so on. In significant respects we may have died years ago. We may have gradually lost the evidences of life and youth. When did you experience your last real enthusiasm? To what extent are you playful? How often do you afford pleasant surprises to those who know you best? Do you tend to conserve your energy so much that you avoid energy-consuming hobbies? How many useful new words have you recently added to your vocabulary? Do you object to using a dictionary or encyclopedia? Are you content to have someone else do your thinking for you? Do you act on the theory that social progress takes place automatically? Do you lazily wish for God to force the Millennium upon us and to begin solving our problems for us? Do you think that all radical changes in point of view, say in politics or religion, should be made by the other fellow—not you? Do your habits of thought and action tend to be of the ready-made and sober variety—such as befit a very proper average man? Is your speech and letter writing crowded with cliches, (pronounce kle shays) those stereotyped and commonplace expressions that we meet with on every hand? Would your friends We seem very prone to 597 tend to class you as a bromide or a sulphite? (See Magazine for November, 1930, pages 631-632.) Perhaps we have been helped by these questions to see that we have [2 need to resist tendencies which give us away to our friends as being more dead right now than we should like to admit. It is obvious that we should not be too self-satisfied and that we should impress people as being really alive—as being breezy and refreshing to be with. We must \ be willing to pay the price in docility, activity, growing pains, and sincere efforts to keep growing and developing. If we but try persistently enough we can all make significant progress in developing the kind of personality traits that will make our letter-writing and _ conversations have something back of them which will be readily recognized as interesting and of great worth. We come now to another fundamental consideration. It is that the successful speaker or writer must understand and appreciate the probable emotional and intellectual responses of his listener or reader. As we have already intimated the problem is not merely one of self-expression, but it is also one of communication. It is important to measure one's success in terms of the effect that is likely to be produced upon the person or persons to whom we are writing or speaking. » The content and style of a well- 'written letter is influenced quite as much by the personality of the one who is to receive it as by the one who writes it. Who will deny that congregations have much to do with the kind of sermons that are preached to them? [Even art and literature cannot wholly escape being judged by their contribution to life and the kind of life lived by the appreciators of art and literature 598 will in turn be reflected to some extent in the products presented for their enjoyment. In writing a letter we should do our best to put ourselves in the place of the one who is to receive it. Just what particular things will he want or need to know about? What are his hobbies, interests and desires? What are his dislikes? How is he likely to take this or that particular bit of news? What is the probable nature of some of his recent experiences? What are his sentiments toward me and the things that I like especially or dislike. Will he be bored by the various things I tend most frequently to mention in my letters to other correspondents? What is his background of experience and education? Will I make the wrong impression if I adopt a chatty or familiar style? Have I shown due regard for his sincerity and earnestness in those matters where we might tend to disagree?. It is a fact that many letters are uninteresting and fall short of being as effective as they could be, simply because their writers have failed to even try to consider the persons to whom they were sent. They may be quite well written if judged wholly from the point of view of self-expression. Only a supreme egotist could assume that he has no obligation in a letter to consider anyone else than himself. The Golden Rule applies here just as it does in other social relations. (Matt. 7:12.) The writer was impressed recently with the ability of the psychologist, William James, as a letter-writer. Although he was a person of great achievements and had a right to assume that others would gladly attend to whatever he had to say, he could adapt himself even to the thought processes of a little child. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE I quote here part of a letter to his eight year old son. "The young man of the house had shot a little wolf called a coyote in the early morning. The heroic little animal lay on the ground, with his big furry ears, and his clean white teeth, and his jolly cheerful little body, but his brave little life was gone. It made me think how brave all these living things are. Here little coyote was, without any clothes or house or books or anything, with nothing but his own naked self to pay his way with, and risking his life so cheerfully— and losing it—just to see if he could pick up a meal near the hotel. He was doing his coyote-business like a hero, and you must do your boy-business, and I my man-business bravely too, or else we won't be worth as much as that little coyote." We see here how Professor James was able to write a choice letter that no doubt the little boy was glad to keep and re-read many times. What do you think about the probability that it actually influenced the boy in the way that the father desired? In the art of conversation the same principles apply. We need to be worth listening to and we need to have due regard for the listener. Conversation should be easier than writing for we can adjust more readily to the likes and dislikes of our listeners. Appropriate physical expression and a pleasing voice help a good deal. Then too we can extend the courtesy of being good listeners and that predisposes the members of the group to listen with consideration to what we may have to say. Conversation at its best is certainly a very high accomplishment. A person can be recognized as being well-educated when he uses his language "with power and _ beauty." When we have such people engaged in friendly conversation we have what has been called "the supreme and ultimate product of civilization." Contrast this with what one hears much too often. There may be LESSON DEPARTMENT harsh rasping voices sometimes even fairly yelling at each other. Or one may be carrying on in a dull monotone while the other occasionally merely grunts a very brief answer. Slang and profanity sometimes crop out and mar what is said. At least they are to be regarded as confessions of weakness rather than evidences of power. Nice shades of meaning are not expressed because of the very limited vocabulary possessed, or because the words that are known are overworked or used carelessly. Sometimes there is not even an attempt to say very much. At other times what is said is mere worthless gossip or even slander. Let us make a genuine and persistent effort to improve the character of both our letter-writing and our conversations. Some Problems for Discussion 1. Kimball says, "In the art of speaking and writing good English there is no tool of so great importance as a good authoritative dictionary." Study such a dictionary for about an hour to find out the different types of help one may obtain from it. List your findings and report briefly to the class. Do you agree with Kimball's statement? Give reasons. 2. In a recent magazine article these are the things mentioned to include in your conversations and letters if you want to be sure to make people hate you: "I don't agree with you at all. * * * I don't like your friend. * * * Anybody could do that. * * * I know better. * * * Tl tell you exactly where you failed. * * * As I was saying. * * I used to think so a while back. * * That is nothing but prejudice," etc. What do you think of people who do this? What sort of phrases would you substitute for these if you wished to make a better im- 599 pression? What more fundamental change would likely be necessary than a mere change of phrases? 3. Comment in relation to this lesson upon the following description of the educated man by J. H. Newman: "Fle knows when to speak and when to be silent; he is able to converse, he is able to listen; he can ask a question pertinently, and gain a lesson seasonably, when he has nothing to impart himself; he is ever ready, yet never in the way; he is a pleasant companion, and a comrade you can depend upon; he knows when to be serious and when to trifle, and he has a sure tact which enables him to trifle with gracefulness and to be serious with effect * * * He can recollect to whom he is speaking; he guards against unreasonable allusions, or topics which may irritate; he is seldom prominent in conversation, and never wearisome." 4. Many people believe and act as though "our greatness and welfare (were) proved by our being very rich." Contrast this standard with the conversation standard referred to in the lesson or with the following from Matthew Arnold: "Consider these people, then, their way of life, their habits, their manners, the very tones of their voice; look at them attentively; observe the literature they read, the things which give them pleasure, the words which come forth out of their mouths, the thoughts which make the furniture of their minds." 5. Explain what type of person is referred to as a bromide; a sulphite. Explain and illustrate what is meant by a cliche. 6. Give the best practical suggestions you know of for improving one's written English. (See Magazine for October, 1930, page 575, problems 7-8.
