Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon HE attractive new cover of the Relief Society Magazine is bringing forth many favorable comments. Pews deeper, richer colors of autumn are replacing the dainty pastel shades, so popular during the summer months, in fabrics and styles for women. OMMON sense clothes for street and office are featured in the fall exhibits leaving the "old-fashioned fripperies" for afternoon and evening wear. The ridiculous Eugenie hat is one of the "fripperies." ARY COLLINS of Caldwell, Kansas has been a mail carrier for twenty-five years, never missing a single day. OS ANGELES expects to curtail its charity fund a million dollars by cutting down on the "parasites." One wonders where these unprovided for will go this winter. WHITE BIRD FLYING?" is the significant title of Bess Streeter Aldrich's new novel. It carries on the saga of "A Lantern in Her Hand" to a later and more modern period. ARGARET AYERS BARNES' last novel "Westward Passage" may not win the Pulitzer prize, but it is praised by the critics equally with "Years of Grace." ISS ELIZABETH FITZGERALD of Utah led the American Delegation of Business and Professional women to the International Conference held in Vienna this summer. The delegates were entertained at the different American embassies in Amsterdam, Munich, Florence and Rome. The group were also granted an audience by the Pope. OROTHY ARZNER, Paramount director, claims that there are many productions where a woman is better equipped than a man to direct because of the deeper emotions which come through the screen. It would seem this advice follows for all stage productions as other American stars will have their own theatres and own repertory this fall. Katherine Cornell takes over the '"Bassetts" in the old Belasco playhouse; Alice Brady will produce a cycle of dramas in her father's playhouse in New York; Pauline Lord is to be a producer in her own theatre, and Jane Cowl will manage her own plays, mostly Shakesperian works. ENRIETTA SCHMELER, the brilliant Columbia co-ed, lost her life this summer on an Apache reservation, where she had ventured to live among the Indians to gather first-hand information for a thesis. Rather costly knowledge that. A NEW YORK heiress, Miss Ethyl Clyde, saved from eviction 59 families of the striking coal miners of West Virginia by guaranteeing a year's rent. The wives and children of these families trudged their way through the heat and dust for miles seeking relief. One wonders why a few more heiresses of millions couldn't see the light and help a little.
