Old Mexico By Luacine Savage Clark of memories this name recalls to us of our early school days. How we struggled to pronounce those almost unpronounceable names—particularly that of the old volcano Popocatepetl: we finally succeeded by putting the accent on the cat. Now we jearn that we were all wrong; this poor furry creature is utterly disregarded and the accent falls on the te. From our school days we remember much of political disturbance, but again we were wrong with regard to our accent. Now when we study this wonderful neighbor of O=: MEXICO—what a flood ours, we learn only of a land of beauty, blue skies, romance, and mystery, with a kindly hospitable people, loyal and lovable. Some writer describes Mexico as a felicitious blend of the cold north and the lower tropics of Persia, India, (Arabia, Spain and the Holy Land. People who have traveled extensively all declare that the Old World has nothing to excel the grandeur of the scenes to be found in Mexico. Here we have the architecture of Spain with the tiled roofs and arches. Venice in dreamy Xochimilco with its quaint boats festooned with blossoms, that can 550 carry you miles along flower bordered canals. Pyramids that are larger and more puzzling to the archaeologist than those found in Egypt. Here we have the azure skies and flowers of Italy, mountain scenery unexcelled by the Alps. Old cathedrals with their shining tiled roofs, with walls mellowed with age that have stood the test of storms and strife of four centuries. Villages quaint and old with their low flat roofed houses; women carrying water jars from the neighboring wells; burros trotting through narrow streets bearing women cuddling babes in their arms with the husbands walking at the side; all making the visitor feel that he has stepped back two thousand years into the past and is in the land from whence Joseph and Mary fled by these same means in their journey to Egypt. Mexico City, like our own beloved Salt Lake Valley, is entirely surrounded by mountains: three of these are volcanoes now extinct: they stand, with their snow capped peaks, mighty guardians of the secrets of this wonderful land of mystery. A> you cross the border going south to Mexico you are transported to another world; customs, manner of living are all so different from our own. It would be difficult to tell which one of all of Mexico's charms is the outstanding one. I think to the ladies, perhaps the flowers would take first place. Those of us in Utah who nourish the stately Calla Lily in a pot, protecting it during the severe winters, are amazed to see them growing, like weeds, at all seasons of the year along the water ditches without any care, and one can purchase an armfull for a few cents. Easter lilies in the States RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bought for 75 cents a flower at Easter time, are purchased in our flower markets here for 50 cents a dozen. Roses, immense Poppies, Gladioli, Violets of the finest variety, grow in such abundance around Mexico City and are so cheap, that we can fill our rooms for a trifle more than we would pay for a few fine roses at home. But perhaps the greatest flower surprise to the visitor is to be able to buy a dozen Poinsettas at Christmas time for fifty cents, or decorate, for $2.50, a long table for some elaborate dinner with Orchids, or a box of Gardenias for seven and a half cents which sell in New York for $1.00 a flower. In the fields on every side Cosmos and many other flowers which we cultivate with great care in our gardens, grow wild in great profusion. Among the beautiful pines on the mountainsides are seen immense ferns of all varieties and gorgeous Foxgloves of every hue. I have transplanted some of the latter in the Embassy garden. Besides the glorious flowers, Mexico's picturesque streets are bordered with flowering trees; the loveliest of these is the Jacaranda with its dainty, ferny leaf and huge bunches of purple blossoms, while in the gardens are the brilliant Bouganvilla purple and red topping the walls and clothing the houses. In the gardens are the banana and fig tree. Add to all this splendor the many varieties of Cactus with their red and yellow blossoms, and you have a suggestion of what can be seen in Old Mexico day by day through the whole year. | the midst of this glorious setting lives the Mexican, those who dwell in the cities and those who live in the country. Perhaps nowhere else in the world do we find people OLD MEXICO of greater culture or more widely traveled than in Mexico. Scarcely a dinner guest who is not able to converse in English, I'rench, and, German. Ata recent dinner party at the Embassy one of Mexico's leading physicians, with world wide reputation, speaking E[nglish, Irench, German and Spanish, widely traveled, seated himself at the piano and played as a master not only the classics, but his own beautiful compositions as well. Many of the houses are magnificent and a visitor receives a warm, friendly welcome. The children are always polite. The young ladies are chaperoned and guarded more carefully than most of our own young people. Nature deals kindly with the Mexican who lives in the country and has provided him with everything necessary for his existence with but little effort on his part. From the soil anywhere he is able to make adobes for his home. From the many varieties of Cactus that grow all over Mexico he gets food, shelter, and clothing. From the flat leafed Nopal, which with the snake and eagle forms the emblem of Mexico, 551 the Mexican gets much: he gets sweetmeats from the flowers that grow around the leaf, and the green leafy part makes a tasty vegetable when cooked; he weaves matting and wicker stools from the fibre. From the Maguey, or Century Plant as we call it, comes the rich juice Agua Miel, or honey water, a specific for certain kidney diseases; fermented this juice becomes Pulque, the so-called national drink, the use of which the Mexican Government is taking long strides to restrain. From the Maguey pulp comes paper, vinegar and molasses, while thread, twine, and rope are made from the fibre. The ingenious Mexican uses the sharp thorn found at the end of each leaf as a needle. Some of the houses are thatched with the broad leaves of the Maguey just as our pioneer houses used to be thatched with straw, but this makes a better roof than straw, for the curl in the leaf acts as a drain to carry off the water from the heavy rains. The roots and lower leaves of the Maguey are roasted and from them are distilled two fiery beverages called Tequila and MesDRAWING PULQUE FROM THE MAGUEY 552 cal, in the old days said to be a favorite drink of all classes. With the Organ Cactus, so called because the tall cylindrical branches resemble the pipes of an organ, many of the Mexicans fence in their little home plots. As each column is covered with sharp thorns they form a formidable barricade against all intruders. From another species of Cactus, called Soap Weed, comes a fibre which when matted together makes a cleaning mop for scouring bathrooms and kitchens and proves to be better than cloth mops. Zeros oe RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE EXICO has two seasons, a wet and a dry, with a mean temperature of 65 degrees. The sun shines nearly every day in the year, so the poorer Mexican has no long cold winters to dread nor coal bins to fill. He is warmed by the sunshine nearly three hundred and sixty-five days in the year. The Mexican is artistic; every home, no matter how humble, has its flowers blooming around it. Each village has its weavers who make the beautiful sarapes seen everywhere in Mexico, and the gay, useCHURCH OF GUADALUPE OLD MEXICO ful baskets so highly prized by the tourist. Besides these are the makers of pottery who furnish dishes to all of Mexico. Sugar cane grows everywhere in great abundance and furnishes the necessary carbohydrates for the children. The Mexican is deeply religious. The beauties and wonder of Mexico are becoming more and more known to the traveler and every week steamers and trains are bringing tourists from the United States and other countries. People are realizing it is not necessary to cross the ocean to Europe for vacations. Mexico offers everything that can be fourid in the Old World, with less expetise and little inconvenience. While the people in the United States have been suffering in the intense heat this summer, we have not had one uncomfortable day in Mexico City and every night a blanket is necessary. Drastic sanitary measures are being enforced, a vigorous campaign against the fly is being carried 553 on, homes for those who have been homeless are being provided. So in every way Mexico is coming into her own with an appeal that comes to all classes. The artist finds here beauty unsurpassed anywhere in the world. If he goes to Chapultepec Heights at sunset he may watch the gorgeous colorings on the snow capped peaks of the two lofty volcanoes as they change from deep orange to purples, then blues, and then fade to a soft gray, finally to be blotted out as night falls over Mexico City. This one beautiful panorama justifies a trip to Mexico. For the botanist there are the countless varieties of Cacti, tropical trees and flowers. For the archaeologist there are the centuries-old ruins, temples with frescoed walls, halls, and courts, pyramids, the greatest perhaps of the world. To the invalid and those seeking change and rest, Mexico is a panacea unexcelled in the world. Here the sun shines every day in the year; there is no extreme heat or cold. Mexico is destined to become the playground of the world. SNAKE PYRAMID
