[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]

—-- Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social science The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions) Lesson 3—The Presidency of Brigham Young For Tuesday, January 25, 1949 Elder T. Edgar Lyon THE PRESIDENCY A UNIT THE THREE ARE ONE BRIGHAM YOUNG President Brigham Young THE second President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Brigham Young, was born in Vermont, June 1, 1801. In 1830 he was living in Mendon, New York, where he was following the trade of carpenter, joiner, painter, and glazier, when he first heard of the Book of Mormon. He was converted largely by this book, but did not join the Church until 1832, after which he moved to Kirtland and became intimately associated with the Prophet Joseph Smith. At his first meeting with Joseph Smith, the Prophet called upon Brigham to pray, and in his prayer, he spoke in tongues, and the Prophet announced to those present that the gift was from God, and added, "'the time will come when Brigham Young will preside over this Church" (Nibley Preston, The Presidents of the Church, page 52). Brigham Young was selected a 712 member of the first quorum of Twelve Apostles of this dispensation, February 14, 1835. He played a prominent part in the Ohio, Missouri, and Illinois periods of the Church. In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, January 10, 1841, the Lord says: "I give unto you my servant Brigham Young to be a president over the Twelve traveling council" (D. & C. 124:127). Less than six weeks after Joseph Smith was murdered, Brigham Young and the Council of the Twelve Apostles were sustained as the presiding body of the Church. They functioned in this capacity from August 1844 until December 5, 1847, when the First Presidency of the Church was reorganized near Council Bluffs, Iowa. Brigham Young was sustained by the apostles as President of the Church and he chose two counselors, Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards. Then the apostles sustained the First Presidency of the Church. Bigham Young was sustained president with Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards as his counselors. 'They were sustained by the Church in the log tabernacle at Council Bluffs, December 27, 1847. The new President was to continue in this calling for nearly thirty more years. During this time, because of the loss of his counselors by death, he was assisted by two additional first and two additional second counselors other than those previously mentioned. Brigham Young stood at the head of the Twelve as the governing body at a time when there was need for a leader of great forcefulness. The members of the Church have all 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948

 heard or have read the testimonies of those who were assembled in the Grove in Nauvoo, after the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, when the Quorum of the Twelve, with Brigham Young at its head, was sustained as the Presidency of the Church. Typical of these testimonies is that of Emmeline B. Wells (the fifth general president of the Relief Society) who was present when "the mantle of the Prophet Joseph fell upon Brigham Young and so transfigured him that the people marveled." All through the long years of her life, she related this incident in the assemblies of the saints with earnestness and vigor. It was evident that the saints would soon have to leave Illinois. This called for great organizing ability and much wisdom in choosing a new location as well as resourcefulness in providing the means of getting there. The records of the Church during this period indicate that Brigham and his brethren met frequently and studied reports on the Far West. Then, under the inspiration of God, they decided upon their place of settlement. "We will carry out all the measures of Joseph," said Brigham. Many times he expressed the conviction that his experiences with the Prophet during the journey to and from Missouri with Zion's Camp were the most valuable that could have come to him in fitting him for the exodus to the West. In addition to the practical leadership of Brigham Young, he was preeminently a spiritual leader. Under his direction the unfinished temple at Nauvoo was rushed to completion. This was done at great sacrifice in time, money, and labor even when LESSON DEPARTMENT it was apparent that the saints would not long enjoy its use. He was determined that they should have the benefits of their temple endowments and do some ordinance work for the dead, before they embarked on the long trek to the West. When Brigham Young entered the Salt Lake Valley for the second time in the fall of 1848, he had two counselors who were well qualified for the responsible positions they held. Elder Kimball was a man of sound judgment and great courage, and with his other gifts he had an unusual sense of prophetic insight. Willard Richards was a man of penetrating intelligence and added much to the technical organization of the Church and the establishment of the institutions that were needed for their government and in the regulation of their interrelations in their new pioneer life. After entering the Great Basin, Brigham Young commenced to unfold the plan for building the "kingdom of God" in a most remarkable fashion which indicated a great vision of the future destiny of the Church. Emphasis was placed upon the necessity of providing the essentials to maintain life—the securing of food, clothing for the cold winters, and shelter from the cold and heat. He urged the people to be economically self-sustaining and to this end he encouraged the emigrating saints and the missionaries who were abroad to bring or send to Zion artisans of trades and occupations, which could be adapted to the use of the Latter-day Saints in their mountain homes. Coal mining, iron smelting, cotton raising, silk culture and manufacturing, tanning of hides, manufacturing of paint, shoes, harness, hats, linen, paper, ink, glass and lead products, cabinet and furniture works, soap making, woolen manufacturing, the sugar beet industry, and others were commenced, in addition to the usual farming and livestock activities. 713 M-U:-S-: I-C MUSIC— MUSIC— FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY CHOIRS WURLITZER ORGANS WURLITZER ORGANS WURLITZER ORGANS FOR BETTER ACCOMPANIMENTS SELDON N. HEAPS SELDON N. HEAPS SELDON N. HEAPS For Help With Your Musical Problems SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 W. First So. Salt Lake City NEAREST ENEUEDS ee BIBLES There's one to meet almost every Bible need of young or old — student or teacher. Look for the National trade-mark before you buy. It identifies a book you can be proud to give — or to get. SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE The planting of the many settlements from San Bernardino, California, and Carson Valley in the west, and from Call's Landing in Arizona to Fort Lemhi on the Salmon River in Idaho in the north, were all made as part of his plan to establish latterday Israel firmly in these mountain valleys, and to enable them to utilize the various natural resources for the temporal salvation of God's people. Along with these activities the spiritual needs of the people were not forgotten. Every settlement was in reality a planned Church unit, under the leadership of the bishopric. No settlement was without its combination Church-schoolhouse, and it became the center of the spiritual life of the people. 'The great pioneer leader did not think it sufficient to send out a colony and then read reports of its activities, but he endeavored to visit each colony, yearly, if possible. On these pilgrimages he encouraged the colonists with sound, practical advice and fed them the bread of life by preaching to them spiritual messages as he spoke under the inspiration of God. He encouraged them to seek wholesome recreation that would restore their tired bodies and invigorate their minds. Nor was he forgetful of the need of increasing the membership of the Church nor the divine obligation to preach the gospel to the nations of the earth. The missionary work in Europe was expanded to include most of the Continental nations, and more systematic organizations were effected to cover the North American continent and the islands of the Pacific Ocean. Through the organization of the Perpetual Emigrating Fund Company, many thousands of converts were enabled to emigrate to Zion through this cooperative enterprise who otherwise would never have been able individually to meet the costs of the journey. Prior to his joining the Church, Brigham Young was an obscure laborer engaged in farming, the building trades, and functioning as an unpaid Methodist class leader. It was through the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, his contacts with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the power of the Priesthood that he was enabled to lead the Church as he did. He declared: I do not wish men to understand I had anything to do with our being here. That was the providence of the Almighty. It was the power of God that wrought out Salvation for His people. I never could have devised such a scheme. When he passed from mortality on August 29, 1877, at Salt Lake City, the life of a great prophet-leader closed amidst the scenes of the great achievements his leadership had accomplished in the barren wastes of western America. B. H. Roberts said of him: These achievements write down Brigham Young as the Greatest Pioneer and Colonizer of modern times—an Empire founder; and place him easily among the first score of Great Americans. Professional and Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah "ae ne: THAT'S WHAT YOU GET IN | Vs PAINT. Among them you can find any color you want to match any color in draperies, wallpaper—anything. BENNETT''S 65 West First South and Bennett's branches and dealers in Utah and Idaho 

 —OCTOBER 1948

 LESSON DEPARTMENT 715 LADIES! When you come to conference we cordially invite you to drop in at our store and see and hear the beautiful HAMMOND ORGAN! GLEN-BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 South Main St. PRACTICALLY ALL SIZES OF 'LAMP BULBS BUY FROM YOUR DEALER A UTAH POWER «& LIGHT CO. MESSAGE 716 HEBER C. KIMBALL Heber C. Kimball The man whom Brigham Young chose to be his first counselor in the Presidency of the Church in 1847 was one of his closest personal friends. He was well suited to the task and Brigham's close acquaintance with him had revealed the characteristics that were needed to help him carry the tremendous load that he would have as President of the Church. Heber C. Kimball was born in Vermont, on June 14, 1801 —just thirteen days after the birth of Brigham Young. He likewise had established himself in Mendon, New York, but he had learned the trade of a potter as well as farming, and in 1830 at the time of a "revival," had joined the Baptist church. About three weeks after his baptism he heard of the restoration of the gospel and he and Brigham and Phineas Young and their wives journeyed to Pennsylvania where they visited with members of the Church. In April 1832, he was baptized and in September of that year he and Brigham and Joseph Young visited Kirtland and met the Prophet Joseph for the first time. They soon moved to Kirtland, and from that time until the death of the Prophet, Elder Kimball was closely associated with him, being one of the original group of Twelve Apostles. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948

 NST ERIEPISSIISDIAEVDIM Two Part SACRED CHORUSES for your SINGING MOTHERS' Repertoire 7947 Sing O Heavens—Simper...$.12 1875 Father, In Thy Mysterious Presence Kneeling — Protheroe 12 5243 Thy House Forever — Protheroe (12 7952 Lift Up Your Heads—Hopkins.12 5972 Come, We That Love The Lord—Barnes 10 5062 The Good Shepherd—Barri.....12 W1718 Grateful, O Lord, Am I— Roma 15 2119 Beside Still Waters — Hamblen 15 1762 Father, We Thank Thee — Castleton 5237 For He Shall Give His Angels Charge—Protheroe ___.............10 Write for further information concerning our complete stock of choral music both for women's and for mixed voices. Music sent on approval if desired. Postage prepaid. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians’ supplies MAIN STREET  G SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH FIRST OF ALL—RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH; LESSON DEPARTMENT He was sent by Joseph Smith in company with other brethren to open the British Isles to the preaching of the restored gospel in 1837, where they firmly established the Church in those countries. In Nauvoo he became an enthusiastic worker for the development of the saints' city, and after the death of the Prophet was a loyal supporter of President Brigham Young. When the Presidency was reorganized on December 5, 1847, President Young assigned to him the first place in the counselorship, and for the remaining twenty-one years of his life, he stood by his best friend as he had previously supported his Prophet. In the pioneering of the Great Basin, Elder Kimball was one of the planners and_ stimulators. With Brigham Young he visited the colonies that had been established in the various portions of the then expansive Utah Territory, and spoke prophetic encouragement to the struggling saints. He was also a member of the territorial legislature for many years. His particular gifts in speaking appear to have been his ability to speak the language of the common man and to explain doctrines and make them impressive through the use of homely stories and apt sayings which were long remembered and afterward quoted by the saints as gospel truths. He was also possessed of a fine sense of discernment. Particularly did this spiritual gift manifest itself in predictions. 717 Don’t Delay Every day you postpone changing to the O. P. Skaggs System "Easy Way" of shopping for your foods (if you are not already converted) you lose valuable time as well as money. Modern methods of merchandising in the O. P. Skaggs System Stores have done away with wasted time, dissatisfaction and low quality foods for our customers, Don't wait another day! Come in now and prove for yourself that you can have highest quality foods at less than ordinary prices. O. P. SKAGGS Class. Leaders Here Are Your Reference Books for your 1948-49 Social Science Lessons O MAN AND THE DRAGON2.00 Dr. John A. Widtsoe Said SMITH: PROPHET-STATESG. Homer Durham GOSPEL Dr. G. Homer Durham DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOOD- - G. Homer Durham BOOKCHRAT 1186 South Main Salt Lake City, Utah When ordering, add 2% Sales Tax in Utah Write for listing of books AN RUFF $2.25 $2.50 718 At Nauvoo when they first commenced to establish the city he remarked: "This is a beautiful place but not a long resting place for the Saints." 'This incensed Sidney Rigdon who was convinced that their troubles were over, but Brother Kimball's prophecy was soon fulfilled. Many are the stories told of his predictions concerning the future of the saints and their troubles and of the Church and its destiny. As a result of a severe fall sustained in Provo, Utah, he died at Salt Lake City on June 22, 1868. Brigham Young lost in him a wise counselor and the saints an approachable leader who lived close to them. God had taken one of the most humble of this world to confound the mighty, the wise, and the strong. Topics for Discussion and Study 1. What characteristics did Brigham Young possess for the great work that was placed upon him at the death of Joseph Smith? 2. What purpose do you suppose Brigham Young had in establishing many small settlements throughout the intermountain region, rather than the settlement of a few large cities? 3. What particular contribution did Heber C. Kimball make to the establishment of the Church in its western home? 4. Read and evaluate Heber C. Kimball's ''Address to My Children," found on page 151 of Life of Heber C. Kimball. References N1BLEy, Preston, Brigham Young: The Man and His Work. Life Story of Brigham Young., Wuitney, Orson F., Life of Heber C. Kimball; Improvement Era, Vol. 13: page 989; Vol. 33, page 558. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1948

 "Man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge."—Joseph Smith. Saints should seek knowledge "BOOKS OF THE CHURCH FOR ANY L. D. S. BOOK Write EZRA 1. MARLER L. D. S. BOOKS BY MAIL Box 267 Salt Lake City, Utah STANDARD PRICES PERSONAL SERVICE SAME-DAY MAILING 1948 price list free for the asking SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO., ) Ro AFH ANOTHER DENT Mighty few dented fenders on Sears big storeside parking lot! There's plenty of room to maneuver your car.