[Vol35 | October 1948 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Poem | Title: Things Are]

For  by  him  were  all  things  created,  that
are  in  heaven,  and  that  are  in  earth,  vis-
ible and  invisible,  whether  they  be  thrones,
or  dominions,  or  principalities,  or  powers:
all  things  were  created  by  him,  and  for
him:  .  .  .  For  it  pleased  the  Father  that
in  him  should  all  fulness  dwell  (Col.  1:16,
19).
The  Lord  does,  and  will  have
complete  control  over  the  earth  it-
self.   Paul  states:
Because  the  creature  itself  [meaning  the
earth]  also  shall  be  delivered  from  the
bondage  of  corruption  into  the  glorious
liberty  of  the  children  of  God.  For  wc
know  that  the  whole  creation  groaneth
and  travaileth  in  pain  together  until  now
(Romans  8:21-22).
There  are  many  references  in  the
scriptures  to  a  time  when  the  ele-
ments will  be  melted  by  fire  and
the  earth  will  pass  away  and  we  will
have  a  new  earth.  This  change  is
likened  unto  a  transfiguration
(D.  &  C.  section  63:20-21.  See  also
section  88:25-27).  Jesus  is  the  God
of  this  land  (Ether  2:12).  He  cre-
ated this  earth,  under  the  direction
of  his  Father,  and,  therefore,  does
speak  to  the  winds,  the  sea,  and
everything  in  the  earth,  and  they
obey.
Quieting  the  Demons
Shortly  after  the  stilling  of  the
storm,  Jesus  and  his  party  landed  on
the  eastern  side  of  the  lake.  Mat-
thew tells  us  (8:28-29)  that,  as  they
landed,  "...  there  met  him  two
possessed  with  devils."  One  of  them,
especially,  terrified  the  neighbor-
hood with  his  weird  shrieks.  Because
of  his  mania,  he  was  so  strong  he
had  broken  his  fetters  and  fled  to
the  mountains  where  he  lived  in
the  caves.  However,  when  he  saw
the  Lord,  he  prostrated  himself  and
cried:  "What  have  I  to  do  with  thee,
Jesus,  thou  Son  of  the  most  high
God?"  (Mark  5:7).  Notice  how
the  devils  recognized  the  Master.
