[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: SPECIAL NOTICE.]

SPECIAL NOTICE.
Members of the Relief Society are entitled to the Hand Book on Art and Architecture (Devotees and their Shrines) at the net price of $1.00, with the addition of 10c postage.
All orders at the above price must be received at this office by Aug. 1st, as after that date the contract will expire and the book will be sold for $1.25. at the Deseret News Book Store.
.
13 NOTICE.
We are sending to our sisters with this month's Bulletin an excellent paper on the '"Safe Guarding of the Child's Eye Sight," by Dr.
L. "SV.
Snow, who addressed the Relief Society conference on this important subject at the October conference.
Salt Lake City, June 11, 1914.
The party of sisters who represented our organization at the International Council at Rome, have arrived home and report conditions pointing to a most successful future for council activities.
Counsellor Clarissa S.
Williams, in company with her husband (Senator Williams), is still visiting abroad^ will see all Europe before return home.
The Utah division of Farm Women's Movement is very active, sending out literature and coupons to our societies.
Its purpose is to assist in the erection of a model farmhouse, to be maintained at the San Francisco Exposition in 1915, where all the latest improved methods of farm household articles and their uses will be demonstrated.
We are enclosing also bulletins for our Public Health Committee.
We urge our sisters to assist in giving publicity to these bulletins, and to do all in their power toward the extermination of the death dealing fly.
The fly trap should be made and used.
The Presidency and General Board of the Relief Society announce that the next class in the Relief Society Nurse School will commence Monday.
September 21, 191-1. and continue eight months, in Salt Lake City.
Dr.
Margaret C.
Roberts will be the instructor.
It is requested that the Stake Presidents will at once consult with their Ward Presidents for the purpose of selecting:
14 .
Intelligent and energetic women of suitable age and of good moral character to take this course in nursing.
We sincerely trust that members of the Relief Society realize the value and necessity of this Course of Nursing, as it is a fact that 95 per cent of the inhabitants of our country cannot afford to pay the price of a graduate, hospital nurse, and yet our sick of the masses should receive trained and skilful nursing.
We can also recommend this course in nursing as a much needed part of every young woman's education.
The tuition for the course will be $20.00, and it is expected that the Relief Society organization in each ward will pay the tuition free for their representatives.
However, any student who wishes to pay the tuition herself may do so, if she is willing to accept and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract, a copy of which follows Contract.
In consideration of obtaining instruction free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I promise to answer all calls made upon me by the Superintendent of Relief Society Nurses where I live, to give thirty days' charity nursing, and also nurse for whatever remuneration may be designated by said Superintendent for the term of one year following graduation.
Students who do not wish to sign the aforesaid Relief Society contract may attend the school by paying the usual fee of $50.00.
Cost of books $5.00.
A course in cooking having special reference to preparing and serving food for the sick and convalescent will be provided for the class commencing after the Christmas holidays.
The students to meet the cost, which, however, will be but nominal  not to exceed $3.00.
Homes where students may assist with the housework for their board and room can always be furnished in good families.
Dr.
Roberts will also teach a class in Obstetrics and as; skilful midwives are needed in every town we recommend this class.
For full particulars write to CLARISSA S.