[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 256 | Fiction | "Love Thy Neighbour" | Helen Hooper]
["Love Thy Neighbour" Helen Hooper]

Helen Hooper @ My whole problem was that I didn't believe. It would have been heresy to have said it out loud. I felt this instinctively, and with it the shame and the awful burden of secrecy it demanded. I could see vividly in my imagination the shocked faces of my sisters, the pain in Mama's eyes. It wasn't that I didn't want to believe, but everything was against it—everything I could see or feel or know. It didn't matter that Mama told me constantly about the Golden Rule and "not a sparrow falleth," and all the other gospel precepts that should guide our lives and thoughts. It only made me feel more guilty and rebellious to watch her work so hard and faithfully and see my sisters obediently accept the necessary sacrifices that poverty demanded, while everything within my being rejected it with one violent, enormous WHY. Why did father have to get killed in the mine? Why did we have to leave our lovely home in Provo and the green lawns and flowers to come to this ugly, horrible mining town with its 256 gouged mountains spilling out their rocky insides into the back yards? Why did Grandfather's mills have to fail? Why did the politicians have to change the tariff? Why should a low tariff make it cheaper to buy imported woolen goods than the ones we could make in Grandfather's mills? It all went back to the Lord and politics. If the Lord would let things like that happen, it was perfectly obvious that he did not care anything at all about what happened to me. Mama had refused to return to Provo after Father's death, because we would be too great a burden on Grandfather. She had decided, realistically, but with much faith and prayer, that we could get along by taking in boarders. Ours was the only boarding house in Eureka that upheld Mormon standards and did -not allow smoking and drinking, so our boarders were mostly serious young men, just home from their missions, who had come to work in the mines. The mines paid high wages, and they could save enough money so that they could buy a piece of land or invest in business down in the _ valley towns. When I was seventeen and had finished high school, Mama finally agreed to let me pin up my hair. I had begun to look at these young men with a new perspective. They were suddenly individuals who might mean something to me besides extra dishes to wash and lunches to pack. WHEN autumn came that year, Mama, with what seemed to me unnecessarily great reluctance, consented for me to go to work for Mr. Pazetti downtown in his ice-cream parlor and cafe. I wanted the job desperately and I had pouted and coaxed for days. I knew that I was not behaving properly, and I hated to 'make things more difficult for Mama, but I was so tired of wearing the older girls' hand-medowns or going without. I felt sure that I was capable of working on a bigger, more important job where I could be of greater help. Mama had been fighting what seemed to me to be a losing battle ever since Father was killed. "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" No matter how she tried to manage, there just never was enough money to go around. During family prayers I found it difficult to feel grateful for our — many blessings, which I could never quite recognize. As a matter of fact, I sometimes caught myself wondering how Mama could be so faithful and patient and loving when she never got anything but hard work and worry. I couldn't imagine a worse fate than spending my life in a mining town, as she was deing, waiting on boarders and doing practical nursing for people who were not appreciative enough even to try to pay her, besides all the work of bringing up eight children. At the cafe I did everything from serving the customers to helping Mrs. Pazetti with the cooking. I worked hard, but it seemed different when I was being paid money for it. Mama insisted that my brother Boyden should come to meet me each night after work, because she never allowed us out on the street alone after dark. Eureka, in spite of two churches, a school, and a few reliable business establishments, was still a rough and boisterous mining town. Before I had been working very long, Don Weldon, one of our boarders, asked permission to walk home with me every evening and Mama said yes. This 'made Boyden happy and I was pleased, too. It was fun to walk home sideby-side with Don. I felt grown-up and important. Don was a marvelous person. He told me such interesting stories about his experiences at the university in Salt 


 Lake and in the places he had seen in England, where he had been on his mission. Mama had been as far as Logan, once, when she and Father were married. This had always been one of my favorite stories. Now, listening to Don, it seemed to me that I would have to travel and do and see all the exciting things there were in the world. I felt I could never be happy if I didn't. BETWEEN my dreams about the future and my new job, time went by so fast that before I realized it, it was the day before Christmas. That morning I was making doughnuts. The wind was howling and blowing the snow like a blizzard up through Main Street and over the Summit. Mr. Pazetti was chopping wood out in back in the woodshed, and Mrs. Pazetti was filling the counters and setting the tables in front. As I measured and mixed, I glanced up and saw a tramp pass the window. He looked at me briefly, then at the heaping bowl of golden brown doughnuts on the table. I didn't like tramps. They were dirty and _ shiftless. We had been taught that cleanliness was next to godliness, and honest work was second only to faith. I always felt a little uneasy if I knew that a tramp was resting on our back porch, but Mama never turned anyone away cold or hungry. I didn't think Mr. Pazetti would have Mama's consideration for other people, and I crossed curiously to the back door so I could hear what he said. The tramp was asking for work... Anything to earn some food and 258 a night's lodging. Mr. Pazetti turned on him with a torrent of abuse that shamed me to listen. I went back to my table and tried to measure the flour with shaking hands. No one had a right to browbeat another human being that way, I thought indignantly. After all, the tramp wasn't begging, he was willing to work. I heard him start back around the house with Mr. Pazetti shouting at him from the woodshed, and quickly I lifted the window by the table. As he looked up, I gathered as many doughnuts as my hands would hold and reached them out to him. He just looked at me for a long minute, then he took them carefully and _ said, "Thanks, Miss," and was gone. I worked hard and fast. My conscience was pricking, for they were Mr. Pazetti's doughnuts that I had given away. The harder I. Worked the more I worried. I knew that I had to tell Mr. Pazetti what I had done, and when I did he would probably be so mad that he would fire me. The thought of such a calamity made me ill. I just couldn't tell Mama I had lost my job, now that she was depending on my _ seven dollars every week, but I couldn't face her clear eyes with a sin on my conscience, either. I gritted my teeth and took a deep breath to steady my faltering will. I closed my eyes and wished that praying would help. When I opened them Mr. Pazetti was standing in the doorway looking at me. I flushed and stammered, then I grabbed at my courage and blurted out what I had done. For a moment I thought he would pop. He was so mad that his eyes bulged and he sputtered like a tea-kettle on a red-hot stove, then he shouted, "Mama mia! You worka overtime! You maka eet up! Doughnuts -eesa noa cheap. Two hours you staya tonight!" "Oh, thank you, Mr. Pazetti. I'll be glad to work overtime. Thank you very much!" The relief flooded over me. Quickly I turned back to the table and started rolling out the dough befor he could change his mind. WHEN Don came for me at nine o'clock I told him I had to work until eleven. He said he had an errand to do, so that would be fine. By half-past ten everything was finished. The last doughnut was served and the last counter polished and the floors were scrubbed and shining. Mr. Pazetti was beaming at his wellfilled cash register. He turned to me as I stood rubbing glycerine and rose-water into my roughened hands. "You goa home. Eet ees enough," he said. I started to explain that I couldn't leave until Don came back for me, but he waved me away, refusing to listen. "Goa home. Pazetti has beega heart. Tomorrow eesa Chreestmas. Goa home." There was nothing else to do, so I went out into the night. Immediately I was caught up by the wind blowing against my back and driving me along into the storm. It took my breath and whipped my scarf from my throat. I clutched at the scarf, trying to wrap its woolen folds "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" closely around my ears and over my mouth and nose. I stumbled blindly in a gap in the board sidewalk and lost the scarf completely, as I grabbed frantically for the side of the building to cling to. I huddled there for a moment deciding to go back to Pazetti's and wait for Don, but as I turned to face the wind a driving sheet of icy snow beat against my unprotected face and drove me back against the building again. I buried my face in my arms, while the storm tore at my coat and wrapped my skirt tightly around my legs. Slowly I inched along the buildings. Everything was closed and deserted. Everyone had obviously hurried home to get out of the storm. As I passed the fire station the buildings ended and I was caught up again in the wind. I turned my back to its force and began to run blindly ahead. The scattered houses were hidden by the density of whirling snow and sleet, and I was guided only by habit and instinct. I gasped for breath, which the wind tore from my throat. My legs were becoming heavy and stubborn. Even with the wind at my back to propel me, I could scarcely make them move. My head pounded and a great pain was stabbing through my chest and into my stomach. Desperately I struggled forward. All of a sudden my foot caught in something and was held tight. I jerked and twisted, trying to loosen it, but it was stuck fast. Slowly I sank down into the snow. I buried my face in my arms to shield it from the wind while I caught my breath. Grad- 


 ually I became aware of a rumbling vibration beneath me. I sat bolt upright. I was on the railroad tracks, probably on the switch just below the water tower. The night train from the valley had probably been delayed by the storm and had come in late. Now it had unloaded down at the depot and was on its way up to the water tower. It would be here in a few minutes. My foot must be caught between the rails! I jumped up on my other foot and began to scream and tug and twist violently. The wind seemed to be dying down, for I could hear my screams, terrified and shrill. I began to pray frantically and desperately that God would hear my cries and help me before it was too late. ALL of a sudden a man appeared out of the storm. He must have heard my screams because he was running fast toward me. He stopped and I tried to tell him that the train was coming and my foot was caught in the tracks. My words were jumbled in my frenzied fear, but he seemed to understand. He dropped to his knees and began to tug at my shoe frantically. The vibration from the rails was stronger now. The train was getting closer. I could hear it above the wind. The man worked vigorously, digging with his bare fingers at the ice and snow, then trying to untie my shoe laces and unlace my shoe. Suddenly we were enveloped in a_ blinding light. Terrified, we jerked mightily together and fell sprawling backwards into the snow, loosened and free once more, rolling and 260 scrambling away from the tracks as the train snorted and puffed past us. Weak and trembling, I sat up and looked at my rescuer. I thought I had never seen anyone so angelic. The wind had subsided and the snow was falling gently as a benediction around us. The caboose went by and in the light of the slowly moving lantern I recognized him. It was the tramp to whom [I had given the doughnuts that morning. He leaned toward me. "Are you all right?" he asked. I nodded, unable to speak, staring at him. He wasn't really much older than I was and he didn't seem like a tramp, except for his whiskers and wornout clothes. He looked back at me steadily and then said, "I'm glad it was you I could help, because you helped me this morning... More than you know." He glanced up at the train. It was stopped at the water tank. "I'm going to catch a ride on that train," he said. "I'm going back home. My mother used to make doughnuts like those in our kitchen back on the farm. She'll be glad to see me again. She didn't want me to leave, but I thought the farm was too dull. Thanks again for the doughnuts." He jumped up and ran toward the train, which was starting to move. I watched him as he swung up on the back of the caboose and ran along the top. He turned once and waved. The train picked up speed and disappeared in the night. I watched until it was gone, then I tied my shoelaces and stood up to start home again. The fear and excitement had been too much for me, and I was abruptly sick. I caught hold of a fence and hung on. Finally, I stood by the fence in the clean, cold night and felt I knew that a miracle had happened to me. I could feel the understanding Sweeping through me, filling my being. Instantly and clearly J could comprehend Mama's faith and serenity. All the beautiful truths she had taught me through the years were apparent and meaningful. "As ye sow, so shall ye reap," "Cast thy bread upon the waters..." "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me." It was the birthday of the Christ Child and, suddenly, I knew him. I began to walk. Slowly and deliberately I put my feet down one after the other into the snow, while my spirit soared up to the glory above the clouds. I reached home and walked around to the back door. The kitchen was filled with spicy Christmas smells. The younger children were in the parlor hanging strings of popcorn and cranberries on the Christmas tree, while they recited their verses for the Sunday School pageant. Mama sat by the stove stitching the trimming on their costumes. I felt suddenly deflated. It was So ordinary and commonplace. Somehow it seemed to me that bells should be ringing and trumpets sounding glad hosannas. It was the Savior's birthday! I heard Mama's voice asking, "LOVE THY NEIGHBOUR" "What's the matter, Nettie? Are you sick?" I looked at her and tried, but somehow I couldn't put it all into words. I said the only simple thing I could explain. "I was sicke"' Mama put aside her sewing. She felt my forehead. "You do feel a little feverish," she said. "Here, sit down in the rocking chair." She opened the oven door and I rested my feet against the edge. The warmth from the oven crept up through my cotton stockings and under my skirts. She took one of her pretty china Cups, put in a pinch of ginger and poured boiling water from the teakettle into it, then she added milk and sugar. "A little ginger tea will settle your stomach and warm you up, child, you're shivering." I was shivering, but it was only a nervous reaction. I sipped the fragrant tea slowly, Savoring it. It was not very often that I was privileged to sit in Mama's chair and drink ginger tea from the best china Cups, yet, at that moment nothing less would have seemed worthy. The front door opened and I heard Don's voice asking if I was home. I was Surprised to realize that I had forgotten all about him. He came into the kitchen carrying a long box wrapped in brown paper. The children eyed the package with curiosity. Don looked first at Mama and then at me. "I'm sorry I missed you tonight," he said. "When I went back to Pazetti's you'd already gone. The train from the valley was late on account of 


 the storm and I had to wait until it got here." He placed the package in my lap. "Merry Christmas," he said. "It was on that train from Salt Lake. It's almost Christmas and I guess you'd better open it because it's flowers and they might die before morning." I looked at it, trying to adjust my emotions to this new surprise. The children crowded close and Mama took the cup from my hands and gave me a pair of Scissors. "Now isn't that lovely," she said. "Go ahead, Nettie, open them. If they've come all the way from Salt Lake, they surely need water by now." Her words aroused me to action. I cut the strings and pulled away the wrapping paper and lifted the lid. There lay a dozen deep red roses bedded in green fern. Each bud was at least two inches in length and the stems were as long as my arm. "Ohhbhhhhhbhbhh." A great sigh of admiration and wonder escaped from all our throats. "Nettie, you may get the crystal vase from the china cupboard," Mama said. That vase had come all the way across the plains wrapped in Grandma's feather mattress. I swallowed and went to the dining room to get it. I arranged each fragrant beauty in the vase and placed it on the piano. Even the splendor of the Christmas tree diminished i comparison with such elegance, "They're too beautiful to keep all to ourselves," said Mama. "Wouldn't you like to take them to Sunday School in the morning, Nettie? They would look so lovely beside the pulpit, and then everyone could enjoy them with us." I looked at Don and his face was beaming with delight. JI looked back at Mama. Her eyes smiled into mine, steadfast and serene. "Oh, yes, Mama," I answered. '"I'd love to." Quite simply then, at last, I understood. You didn't need bells or trumpets or worldly pleasures —not if you had faith in God and love for all mankind in your heart.