[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 263 | Fiction | The Image Sara | O. Moss]
The Image Sara O. Moss ®™ Kathleen drove slowly home in the late afternoon. She was disturbed at her brother's wife Ella, whom she had just visited. She seemed so rigid and extreme in her views on child rearing. "You can't always go by the book, Ella," Kathleen had said. "Sometimes your own good judgment is the better way." Ella had smiled a little wryly. "You're like John," she _ said. "You think I need an image of your old-fashioned Grandma Mack. If you only'knew, Kathleen, how often I have to hear how she reared you and John, stern, but with love and understanding. I guess she was a good little thing and she did the best she could, but I'm really grateful that with three children to rear, I'll have the help of experts. A good psychologist can do more with Connie than all of Grandma Mack's homespun philosophy." Kathleen had been a little hurt inside. Grandma Mack was gone now. She was the only mother she and John had ever known. Kathleen missed her. There had been so much devotion and _ understanding in the small home, and, in rearing her own five children, Kathleen always had Grandma Mack's image before her. It was like a beam of light, guiding, directing, and telling her how to meet life's next obstacle. "But, why," Ella had laughed 


 as she stood by Kathleen's car, sometime later, ''did I have to draw the short end of the match —an old mirror I didn't want, and you drew the Chippendale table? I really wanted that, Kathleen. Grandma Mack. Should have left that to John." Kathleen had smiled. "But we drew lots, and I won, fair and square." The women bantered goodnaturedly for a few moments, then Kathleen came away. She was disturbed over things Ella had said about Ella's daughter Connie. THE next morning she watched her sixteen-year-old son Rodney load the Chippendale table into his red-painted jeep. He was taking it to his shop class to be refinished. '""Now, remember," admonished his mother, 'every bit of the old paint and varnish has to come off, before you apply the new."' 'Don't worry, Mom. Mr. Burke will keep his eagle eye on it. It will be a perfect job, you can bet your life on that." Kathleen now watched Rodney drive away. She felt a little guilty, knowing how much Ella wanted to possess the fine little piece, but she felt such an overwhelming joy at having the table. It was elegant, and made up a little for the secret pangs she sometimes had of wanting things, especially when she visited Ella. Ella's home was like the brilliance of fine crystal, the romance of Dresden, and the feel of walking in deep plush. It was at such times that Kathleen had that feeling of wanting things that she knew never could be hers. But now, she did have 264 something. Something very fine and choice—a prideful thing. She went into the chaos of her house, where five boys had left traces of various activities of the evening before. Kathleen picked up a pair of socks and _ shoes, school books, and a record album. There were dozens of things that a family of seven could litter into a pleasurable evening at home. Kathleen looked through the door into the hall as her eyes rested on the small space where © the table might fit. "It's really the only place where the table can be put," she thought to herself, eyeing the worn carpet and the old-fashioned hall tree. "I wish there was a place in the living room, but everything in there is in use." Just then the phone rang. It ~ was Ella. "Can you meet me at the market, Kathleen! I'd like to talk a few minutes. It's about Connie." "What's happened?" asked Kathleen. "I'll tell you when we meet. Drive to the west side of the Big Market. There's usually plenty of room there." Kathleen promised to meet Ella in half an hour. She hurried and straightened the living room, then went out to her car to meet her sister-in-law. Ella was already there at the market. Kathleen pulled up beside her. "What's wrong, Ella?" Ella's face was worn and haggard. "I'm at my wit's end," she said. ''Connie! Neither John nor I can get to her. She won't tell us where she's going, what she's doing, or what she's thinking. If I ask her anything, she gives me a short answer and walks out of the room." Kathleen looked at _ Ella's troubled face. "'She's a teenager, Ella. She will come out of it, you'll see. Just give her a little time." - "Time!" said Ella. "We can't stand much more of this. And John is so worried, too. She isn't doing a thing in school, to speak of. Wouldn't it be terrible if she dropped out of school?" "Have you. Any idea what brought this behavior on? Was there any reason?" Eta sat silent for a few moments. "I guess I nagged, Kathleen. I do blame myself for that. But it started with her hair. That awful hair. She began spending all her allowance for having her hair silver streaked. Imagine that, when she has such pretty blond hair. After that she began using eye shadow. Real heavy, Kathleen. Sometimes it's purple and sometimes it's green or blue, and then black on her eyelashes. Oh, I know I nagged constantly. I said things I was sorry for, but this painted-up child! And that silver hair. I just had to speak my mind."' '"'No wonder she won't talk to you, Ella. She's tired of listening to you. And walking out of the room is the only way of getting relief. It gives her a freedom." Ella studied her words seriously. "I told John we must have a psychologist work with her, but he thinks that will turn her even farther away from us." Kathleen looked off into space. She felt a deep compassion for Ella at that moment, for she knew she had lost Connie, at THE IMAGE least, for the time being. She wanted to tell her to hold the young, erring head close on her shoulder, silver-streaked hair and > blue-laden eyelids included, and see her as a precious gift from God. She wanted to tell Ella to retrace the steps that had caused the conflict between them, and fill each step with generous outpourings of love from her now over-burdened heart. Yet, knowing Ella, Kathleen was sure she would have to have her advice from a book, rather than any - guidance from dear old Grandma Mack's life. "Try the silent treatment," said Kathleen. "Stop nagging at once and you'll see a big difference." "What! And let her walk all over us?" "Tf you have to," smiled Kathleen. '"'At least let her come home to a quiet atmosphere, no matter how you feel." Ella sighed. ''I'll try it,' she said, "but I can't see how we can just stand by and let her ruin her life. I still think we should have a psychologist work with her." Kathleen knew it was useless to try to influence Ella, and the two women parted after doing their marketing, the problem still remaining. It was early evening a few days later. Kathleen was serving her husband Phil and four of the boys from a big casserole dish, -when Rodney came hurrying into the room. He sat down abruptly in his usual place and began eating hungrily. "You are late," said his father, helping the six-year-old at his side. 


 "Sorry, Dad,'' said Rodney, "but I worked on the table and it was later than I thought. Guess what, Mom? Mr. Burke said an antique dealer told him that your little table is worth a lot of money. Maybe even five hundred dollars because it's a real Chippendale." Kathleen sat down suddenly. "Oh, Rodney! No fooling?" "That's what he said," confirmed Rodney. Kathleen was shaken with surprise. ''Do you believe that, Phil? Do you think Gram's little table could be worth all that?" "Probably more,' said Phil "Antique hunters pay any price if they find what they're looking for."' Each day, after that, Kathleen asked about the table. First, had all the stain and varnish come off—out of every crevice? And was Rodney sure Mr. Burke had advised him correctly on the filler, the rubbing down, and the sanding! Then the final process, the high gloss varnish, had it been rubbed to a satin finish? "It's smooth as _ silk," said Rodney proudly. ""And you should see how the boys stand around to get an eyeful of the table that's worth a fortune." "I hope you tell them it belonged to your Great-grandmother Mack," said Kathleen, passing the baked apples. "They already know that, too," said Rodney. "Mr. Burke told a man from the newspaper about the table, and he came up and took a picture of it, with me working on it." Kathleen was breathless. The little table even made local news. "It isn't for sale,'' she told more 266 than one interested person. "It was my Grandmother's." FINALLY the table was back in the house. On a quiet Saturday morning it gave Kathleen a restful, confident feeling as though Grandma Mack was there with her radiating presence. Phil had taken the boys to a school exhibit, and Kathleen was cleaning and dusting. Joy was in her heart. She sang as she worked. Suddenly the doorbell rang. Kathleen went to open the door, wondering who was on the other side. "Connie!" Connie was the last person she expected to see. ""What a surprise, Connie. You come so _ seldom. Come in.'"' Kathleen had a feeling of curiosity mingled with her feelings of surprise. Connie crossed the threshold. ''Aunt Kathy, I came to see the Chippendale table," she said with candor. "I heard Mother telling Daddy about it."' "Of course, dear. I'd like you to see it. It belonged to your Great-grandmother Mack, you know. It's in here." The table stood in the living room. "I haven't decided where I'm going to put it for sure." Before Kathleen could explain further, the girl had crossed the room and stood by the heirloom. It was moments before she spoke. "It's beautiful, Aunt Kathy," she said as she touched it almost reverently, stroking the wood of the gleaming surface. Kathleen watched the girl's face, alive with interest, and then she noticed the silver-streaked hair and the purple eye shadow. The lashes looked glued with black mascara. Kathleen knew what Ella meant when she said the girl looked a sight. "My Great - grandmother's?"' asked the girl. "That's right," said Kathleen going to the piano. "This is a small photograph of her.' She handed Connie a little framed picture. "She was quite pretty," said Connie. "She was considered very good looking when she was young. She was about your age there." Connie went back to the table. "You know, Aunt Kathy. I want to work with antiques. I love them." "You—like antiques?" Connie smiled. "I know it sounds funny, doesn't it? I'm only sixteen, but I love to collect things. Do you know I have a lovely vase of early pressed glass that I bought in a second-hand store for almost nothing, and I have a sugar bowl and a paper weight." Kathleen was astonished. "I think that's wonderful, Connie. There is so much you can learn about people and history when you study antiques. I didn't know you were even interested in such a hobby."' Connie grinned. "I guess nobody knows, especially Mother. She would think it was trashy to browse around as I do. I just keep my things in a drawer, but someday I'm going to have a little shop. Right now I'd like to search for an old, old rocking chair and refinish it. I think that would be fun." Kathleen studied a moment. "You know, I might have a few things of Grandma Mack's that THE IMAGE you would like to have for your collection. I know you will adore her little butter dish." "Really?" "And you know, if you're going into antiques, you will enjoy reading your Grandmother Mack's diary." Connie picked up the small photograph. "Aunt Kathy, I'd like to know all about her. She was pretty." '""'We've often said you resemble her." Connie grimaced. "I couldn't look like that if I tried. She's cute." "Just the same you are her great-granddaughter." Connie lingered, reluctant to leave. ""You've been so_ sweet, Aunt Kathy." KATHLEEN watched her go, straight and tall, the sun shining on the crown of her silver-streaked hair. '"Teens," she said. "They ruin the beauty God gave them." She went back into the living room. Suddenly she knew what to do for Ella, John, and Connie. Like a blueprint, the pattern unfolded before her. The little table shone up at Kathleen, as though Grandma Mack was there moving another obstacle from her life. Kathleen hurried to the telephone. After some _ explaining, she convinced Ella and John to come up to her house. "'Connie has been here,"' she said. "'I'll tell you more when you come." John and Ella arrived within a half hour, curiously wondering what Kathleen had found out about Connie, and why she had come. "She came to see the table," 


 said Kathleen, and then she told them the girl's secret love for antiques, how she was waiting for the time when she could have her own little shop. "She confided this secret to me, for want of a listening ear at home. Dreams maybe, but it is your medium of reaching her right now. Ella, you'll just have to disregard what she brings home, even if these objects do look dirty and messy to you. It might litter your place up a bit, but what of it? As it is, you have lost her." "Kathleen's right, Ella," said John. "We have lost Connie as far as having her confidence. I was thinking I could give her a working place in the garage, or the toolshed, Ella." "She'll need it," laughed Kathleen. "Right now she would like to find an old, old rocking chair and refinish it." "That I would like to see," said John, but Ella threw up her hands. '"'We might never have known what Connie has been thinking along these lines. She has been clammed up for months, but now we have something to go on, and believe me, I'm going to do all I can to help her get her little hobby started." John rose. "I'll start today to make some shelves for her paints and whatever it takes to clean up old rocking chairs." Ella shuddered at the very thought. When they had gone, Kathleen put the little photograph on the table. Grandma Mack had done it again—moved toward another generation. Her image would be the guiding light in Connie's life and the children she might have. Kathleen was sure of that. At the moment in her heart she let go of the little Chippendale table. At the right time and the right place, she would give it to Connie. When Connie got her own home, Kathleen was sure that it would be Connie who would carry the image of Grandma Mack for other generations.