[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 293 | Home | Cherry-Rhubarb Pie Judith Leigh-Kendall | ]
r. Cover with top crust and cut slits in it. Bake until nicely browned and juice begins to bubble through slits in crust. Serve warm. At I fant F Viola Ashton Candland Spring crept quietly in this year, Unheralded, unseen, Until she spilled her color-rinse And stained the hillside green. 293 Page trom UDiarv oft ai 4 Ls. V/ Hous ewite — Roselyn Kirk © The conversation of a recent telephone call wandered about and centered finally on the virtue of being in a hypnotized state. The distraught young mother on the other end of the line exclaimed, 'Some days I'd like to stay hypnotized from dawn until dark!" I paused for a moment at the suddenness of the remark and was startled to find that my psyche was nodding vigorously in agreement. It had been one of those days for me, too! The cereal had overflowed the pan and had bubbled down into the dark, mysterious crevices of my outmoded electric stove while I mediated a dispute between the baby and my three-year-old. The cause of the disagreement was who would drink from the yellow cup. 294 { eal After breakfast — interrupted by the perilous predicaments of cartoonland's "Courageous Cat' — we had just time to scrape the egg from three little faces before the playmates arrived. Today our yard seemed particularly attractive. And each new arrival made a_ successful attempt to keep the others in a state of screaming frustration. The Indians plucked orange berries from my bushes to use as ammunition, while the cowboys bent the branches of my very young apple tree to camouflage their hideout. Ninety minutes and one broken tricycle later, I had managed to entice all but my three to seek entertainment in other innocent neighbors' yards. I had just settled my oldest with crayons and color book, had deposited my youngest in bed, and was critically appraising the shambles of my kitchen, when the telephone rang and the conversation took place as I have already reported it. As I placed the receiver -back in the cradle of the telephone, I wondered, Isn't it true that I do spend many of my days in a state of self hypnosis? I seem to have so cushioned myself that any unusual jar leaves me untouched. I don't think, or feel, or enjoy as I once did. Yesterday when Jeff stopped in his play and ran in to ask how the rain got up in the clouds, I shook my head and said, "Later, dear." My thinking process—infrequently used—has slowed down. And, besides, the encyclopedia is on the highest shelf of the bookcase and hard to reach. And the day before—when the children and I made our weekly pilgrimage to the bookmobile—I chose their books on the basis of the latest studies in children's literature. But for myself, I picked an entertainer's book instead of one by a serious writer. So I stopped right there by the telephone and looked about me.

[Cherry-Rhubarb Pie Judith Leigh-Kendall]

Through the window I could see that the leaves of our cherry tree had turned from green to dappled gold, and I hadn't even noticed before. It was then that I sat down at my kitchen table, with the dishes strewn about me, and looked over a mound of ironing to my prize bed of chrysanthemums.