[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 275 | Fiction | A State of Mind Lael | J. Littke]

[ILLUSTRATION: Blue bird perched on a branch with musical notes above]

A State of Mind
Lael J. Littke

Grandma Olsen leaned her rake against the apple tree and sat down on the bench William had built so many years ago. Whew, she thought, this yard gets bigger very year. Of course, it might be that she wasn't as young as she used to be. At eighty-one, she told herself defensively, a person has a right to get a bit winded.

She glanced across the street where she could see Edith Parker kneeling by her front fence planting flowers. Then she sighed and looked at her own overgrown flower beds. In the past before her knees got so stiff she had a flower garden, too. Why, Edith Parker's flowers couldn't hold a candle to the ones she used to grow. It took a lot of work, though, and she just couldn't do it any more. But Edith Parker was young. Only forty-eight. The prime of life. All the energy in the world. Grandma Olsen hoped she realized how fine it was to be forty-eight. Husband well established. Lovely home. Those early years of struggle far behind. Children (all worthy of a mother's pride) were nearly all grown. Dear little grandchildren coming along regularly. Relief Society president. So needed by everyone.

Grandma Olsen had been Relief Society president once, too. It had been a hard job, but now she remembered only the joy of giving service. It seemed as if no one needed her any more. Her children came to visit frequently, but they didn't really need her as they used to, to come and give a new baby its first bath and the other things that had given her so much pleasure. They had grandchildren of their own, now.

Her thoughts were interrupted by a small treble voice. "Be happy sings the little bu-u-u-u-urd," it sang. "on boughs beneath the blue-u-u-ue." The

275

APRIL 1965

owner of the voice, a pig-tailed little person of four years, appeared around the corner of the house, furiously pedaling a battered red tricycle.

"Hi, Grandma Olsen," she called.

"Hello, Cindy," said Grandma Olsen. Cindy belonged to Bert and Louise McCafferty next door, but she lived at Grandma's house as much as her mother would allow and called her "Grandma," as everyone else in the neighborhood did.

"What are you doing?" she asked, skidding to a squeaky stop by the bench under the apple tree.

"Just resting," said Grandma.

"Why?"

"I'm a little out of breath."

"Why?"

"I've been raking my yard all morning."

"Why?"

Cindy's agile mind suddenly changed directions, thus saving Grandma from further explanations.

"Guess what?" said Cindy, her blue eyes sparkling. "You know my old cat, Siam? Well, he had kittens. Four of them."

"You mean she had kittens," said Grandma.

"Who did?" Cindy asked.

"Your cat. Siam must be a lady cat."

"No," said Cindy, "he's just a mama cat. And you know what? I know a great big secret. Want to know?"

"I certainly do."

"Cross your heart you won't tell?"

GRANDMA OLSEN drew an X over her heart. Cindy scrambled from her trike and pulled the gray head down close to her own bright blonde one.

"We're going to get a brand new baby soon. My mama told me," Cindy whispered.

"Well, what do you know about that?"

"About what?" asked Cindy.

Grandma laughed helplessly. She was glad when Cindy's active mind was distracted again.

"Look," Cindy said, pointing across the street. "Sister Parker is digging for angleworms."

"I think she's planting flowers," said Grandma.

"Why?" asked Cindy. "I'd rather dig for worms." She leaned over and poked a finger into the grass and then jumped up again. "May I have a drink of water?"

"Surely. Run in and get one."

Funny, smiled Grandma, Cindy unfailingly had to have a drink of water when she came to visit. She thought the water at Grandma's house tasted better than it did at her own home.

Grandma watched the sturdy little girl skip up the back steps and into the neat kitchen. Maybe that's the matter with me, she thought. Here I am thinking that the grass is greener on the other side of the fence, so to speak. I'm envying Edith Parker when I should be grateful that I've had such a good life. A wonderful life, as a matter of fact. Happy. Healthy. Six lovely children. A good, kind husband who never had a sick day in his life until the heart attack took him so swiftly away eight years ago. They had worked hard to rear their children in the right way, and now she could look back on a job well done. Her sons had both

276
