[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 294 | Home | Page From the Diary of a Housewife | Roselyn Kirk]
I had spent a_ week last spring carefully working out PAGE FROM THE DIARY OF A HOUSEWIFE a color combination of reds, bronzes, and yellows. Now all were blooming and I hadn't even paused to enjoy them. I stopped that morning and really saw the sway of the feathery heads as they nodded to the autumn breeze—proud of their burnished dresses of gold and red. I felt their beauty. The cocoon of unawareness—the haze of hurry and_ tension—opened— and I rushed forward to feel life. It was then that I knew I must tune in on the _ natural melody that is a part of each day. Now, sometimes, my vacuuming doesn't get done until afternoon, but I find time to sit beside my son on the grass while we watch a furry caterpillar creep carefully up the rough bark of our tree. And my dishes are often stacked in the sink as I—book in hand—linger with Thoreau in the golden days spent at Walden Pond. When a neighbor drops in to talk about her son Jimmy and how he stutters, I stop. As I listen, I find that I really do care about Jimmy. Together, we discuss the problem—though the iron is placed on the ironing board ready to go to work. But some days I forget and, for a moment, the washing is more important than taking the children to see the cement mixer at work up the block. Then I remember! And as I hold the small hands in mine and walk serenely through the bright day, I know that the hypnotic soulslumbering has passed, and that I'm moving with the pulse of my life. 295 m Have you ever thought about how much a home resembles a business enterprise? The success of a business depends a great deal upon how efficiently it is run from the management end. The labor forces can put in many long, hard hours of work, but if there is mismanagement in the office, the business can still collapse. The father of a family can work diligently at his job, but still not progress financially if his office manager is anything less than efficient in keeping up her end. The most vital way to insure financial stability is a budget, of course, with tithing as the first item. But there is still another way to help patch those ''small leaks that sink the mighty battleship." It is the Home Management File.