[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 282 | Special Feature | We Are God's Children | Rixta Werbe]
We Are God's Children Rixta Werbe Bremerhaven, Germany ™ At the age of seventeen, when I had reached the threshold of adulthood and, therefore, was exposed to decisive influences upon my future life, I heard this sentence: "There are no bad people. If someone does something bad, there is a cause, a reason, why he acts like that." I do not wish to examine at this point to what extent this statement is correct. In any case, at that time I had reached an age at which I believingly accepted the words of any adult person, and looking back now, I am grateful for those words which did not only change me, but my whole life. In fact, I would like to say that even today, many years later, I can still believe that statement without any reservations.—Isn't it wonderful when you know only "good" people? Doesn't one avoid much trouble, perhaps even heartache? The people hadn't changed any, and, perhaps, before, I would certainly have considered some of them evil,. But instead of condemning, I tried from then on to discover the reason for their actions, and by doing this, tolerance and sympathy took over; for I attempted to penetrate their feelings in order to understand their actions, and by doing this, I frequently discovered the difficulties and troubles surrounding people. I realized that there may be many reasons—fear, perhaps caused by bad experiences; lack of. Ability, which might lead to this person being teased or to be compared unfavorably with others; distrust and lack of confidence in others, often justified; the desire to please or impress others, perhaps brought about by extreme loneliness.... One can extend this list infinitely, and, looking more closely at these reasons, one will discover that many of them have to do with others, their personality, and reactions. Did you ever notice how easy it is to justify your deeds, to find an excuse? Well, if you seriously try to do this for the wrongdoings of others, you will reach a point where you can find an "excuse" for every wrong committed by them. Of course, we should not do this in our own case, but rather try to be as good as possible; but I think we may do it with others, for we are not to be their judges. God will judge them. And the direct results? Because we approach everybody with genuine love, they will return those feelings. When we discover weaknesses or similar things, we do not turn away from people, but endeavor to help them. Our continued friendship alone may give them strength—they will know that they are not alone—and in many cases create a desire in them to change, in order to retain this friendship. Often, people will strive to become what we think they are, if we let them feel that we respect them, love them, and have a high opinion of them. If a child knows that his parents think he is a good pupil, he will try harder to get good grades than in a case where. The parents make him understand he is only average and will never amount to much. It is the same with grownup people. Additional advantages are that we do not get angry nearly as often as before, that we get a lot more joy out of our fellow men and, thus, from our own lives. Every time I meet someone who is not nice to others, who, perhaps, even hurts them, I cannot hate him, but, instead, I feel very sorry for him, because I think of how lonely he will be some day, making everybody his - enemy. This way of thinking is by no means unreasonable; for is it not possible that there is some good in everybody? We are God's children, and every one of us has divine attributes. When I first heard this statement, I was not a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and did not tend to consider everything from a spiritual point of view; but, today, I know that this sentence has helped me to love my neighbor as myself, and that, without this thought, I would have had much less joy in life and far fewer friends. Amelia Davis Everett If I should entitle this essay "How to Get What You Want," I assume it would get more attention, but I would still have to travel the route our thoughts should take, for thoughts are seeds of words and deeds. All things are first created spiritually. We cannot see a thought, but we can see the result of a thought. Fear, anger, sadness, or joy, love or compassion often register in our faces. Other thoughts have their effect even though they may not be seen. The great St. Paul put it this way: "... The things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal' (II Cor. 4:18). It is a psychological truism that what we think about most we draw unto ourselves. Like begets like! The wise Solomon epitomized it this way: " as he [a man] thinketh in his heart, so is he" (Prov. 23:7). Weighty problems require concentration of thought. Concentration of the sun's rays through a magnifying glass can start a fire. Likewise, concentration of thought in deep meditation, or prayer, can burn away many of our problems, or reveal the right course to take. True prayer is the expression of sincere thought — not just words.