[Vol52 | April 1965 | Page 299 | Home | A Sisterhood of Hobbies — Carrie K. Walker and Sophronia | M. Petersen]
edle and thread can make us—and that is close." 299 Chapter 7 he Turn of the Wheel Mabel Harmer Synopsis: Elsa Brienholt leaves her native Heidelberg for America, where she is sponsored by the family of Clay Knowlton, stationed in Germany with the United States Army. She finds employment in Salt Lake City for a few months, but when this comes to an end, she goes to Idaho to visit an uncle. After attending his small ward she decides that she should return and help build up the Church in her homeland. She goes to work for the Dawson family, in order to save money for the trip. ® At the end of May, Mrs.

[A Sisterhood of Hobbies — Carrie K. Walker and Sophronia M. Petersen]

Dawson decided that she was well enough to get along without household help, and Elsa _returned to her uncle's home. She was not sorry to be through for, although the work had grown lighter all the time, it had never become what she or anyone else could call exactly easy. She had, ~ however, been able to save almost all of her money and now had just a trifle under four hundred dollars. 300 It was good to be back on the farm again, now that summer had come. The fresh, young green of the fields was enchanting, especially when framed in the distance by mountains that still showed a crown of snow. One day Uncle Frederick came in and said, "I have a couple of propositions to offer you. I'll give you the best one first." "I'm all ears," said Elsa, "although I believe it is usual to save the best to the last." "What is best here is all a matter of opinion. And, in my opinion, the first is the best. If you think so, we won't even discuss the second." "And leave me in curiosity the rest of my life? Hardly. Let's hear everything." "Albert—our dentist son in Boise, has an opening for a dental assistant. He would be glad to have you come up and take over. He would train you and pay you a good salary while you are learning. Of course, he would expect you to stay a reasonable length of time. Until you got married, I suppose." "That might be a very long time, indeed," she replied. "And he is very generous. Now, what is the other?" "There is a chartered plane leaving Salt Lake City in a month. The passengers will all be German-speaking people, going back for a tour. Brother Schumann wrote to ask if Edith and I would be interested in joining them. The fare is only three hundred and fifty dollars." "And there would be room for me?" asked Elsa, her eyes sparkling. "There would be room for all of us, if we make reservations at once."' She jumped up and threw her arms around his neck. "Oh, how wonderful! You will go, of course." "Well, now, we might. It has been over forty years since we left the old country. Maybe we are about due for a return visit." "Then make my reservation at once, along with yours. You will have to work fast to get your shots and passports and_ all.