[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: Woman’s Voice | Author: E. CRANE WATSON]

WOMAN’S VOICE.
My Dear Sister:—
	In response to your kind note of May
25th I felt that I must take time to tell
you of our latest movements as Relief
Society workers, in this stake; I believe


in all the wards the sisters are doing fair-
ly well, in the larger towns particularly
so. In the Parowan ward the Relief So-
ciety is making a mighty effort to build
themselves a commodious and respectable
building; we have purchased a building
spot, and last evening closed the contract
for one hundred thousand brick, which
are to be ready by the last of July. Next
Sunday at 2 p. m. we hold our conference
at Cedar City, we do not expect a repres-
entative of the General Board this time,
but at the best convenience of all will
call special meetings for our visitors.
Our Mothers work has given the hap-
piest results, beside attracting, the organ-
ization seems to be toned up, and is re-
garded as an institution of greater impor-
tance. On Thursday a sister will lecture
on Self Improvement, and I am to treat
upon the subject of “The higher ideals of
the home.”
	We held our Peace meetings May 27th,
were satisfied with the results; at Cedar
City I hear the meeting was one ever to
be remembered. Prof. Maybe of the
B. N. S. was the chief speaker and his
hearers were enrapt with his soul stirring
eloquence, and thoroughly endorsed his
plea for peace.
	Tomorrow our ward president, sister
S A. Adams with three of her daughters
leave for a three weeks trip to Los An-
geles, sister Mary A. Smith Wimmer (the
first counselor) is very poorly and is go-
ing to visit Salt Lake City, that she may
go to the temple and be baptized for her
health, I do hope she can go, she is a
noble character and has been called upon
to suffer much.
	Bishop Richards just stepped in, I de-
livered your kind message, he wishes to
be kindly remembered and prays that you
may have good health; Sister Adams said
she would write you: at our meeting on
Thursday and Sunday I will give your
loving sentiments to the sisters. I ap-
preciate your sisterly wishes for me and
mine, I feel we need to support each other
in this way, it gives us greater strength
and encouragement.
	I am very busy in many ways, but I
have enjoyed this indulgence of a pen chat
with you.
	May the best gifts of our Father’s be
yours,
		Lovingly,
			E. CRANE WATSON.
July 9, 1906.


[Column 1]
