HOME ETHICS
======================================================================

HOME ETHICS Civic Pride (Twenty Minutes.) The foundation of every successful home is honesty. There should be honesty of motive in the union of two lives, the husband and wife filled with a genuine respect and love for each other, while they study each other's characteristics and temperament; and above all, they should possess the same religious faith. These two should live in a home built, according to their means, in a simple, honest way, everything corresponding along the lines of beauty, economy and utility throughout, the main and prime object being to better and ennoble their own lives and the lives of their children, if they are blessed with them, and to set a worthy example in the city, town or village where they reside. Honesty points in many directions in our path. Do we live up to what we profess? Are we the true genuine women we wish our friends to believe us to be? Are we, indeed, the loving, loyal, high-souled sisters our Relief Society calling would indicate? If we are, all will be well with us, but if we are not, if selfishness form any part of our natures, if to aggrandize ourselves alone we labor, then we are not true to the high and noble position of a Relief Society officer or member neither are we fulfilling that mission for which our revered; Prophet John Smith, organized our great sisterhood of women in 1842. Our homes are the primary, as well as the finishing and the graduating school for each of us. Here we lay permanently the foundation for every useful enterprise, every honorable life work here we take on the indelible stamp of reliability, of; integrity, of honest doing and dealing with our own household and our fellow-men. Our families represent the community, the state and the nation. The intellectual, moral, physical, political, social and religious impress of the home life radiates out into the ward, the city and the nation. Hence, the necessity from every point of view for men and women in every avenue of life to be honest, live honestly and act honestly every day of their lives. (a) Honesty the foundation of every home. (b) Honest unity of purpose, interest and faith. ; RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 7 (c) Congeniality of temperament and taste in the highest ideals. (d) Are we honest in our lives? (e) What the Relief Society stands for. (f) Honesty of the home reflected in the community, state and nation. HOME GARDENS FOR WOMEN. (Twenty Minutes.) LESSON II.  "Raise up, ye women that are at ease." Isaiah, 32d ch., 9th, 10th verse. Perhaps no more frequent objection is made to the introduction of flower and kitchen gardening for women than this statement "It doesn't pay. We can't get anything for our fruit: or our vegetables, and flowers take so much time and we have to carry water to keep them alive. So I can't raise things in my lot." Let our sisters read the whole of the quotation at the head of this lesson. Much of the work that is done by women is both unprofitable as well as unnecessary. Let us leave off some of the things we do and instead do the things that will give us health and home prosperity. Our Heavenly Father has generously created everything needful for the use of His children, and all He expects of us is to learn the proper use of the materials and elements He has so wisely provided. To begin with, interest the male portion of the household get the small boy and his older brothers to assist you in spading and ploughing the garden. This is February, and therefore a good time to talk over the plans for the summer's work. Decide just how much land you can successfully handle, and do not take more. Suggest to the boys and the girls that each may have a bit of land for his or her own individual planting, and give to him or her a chance to raise a few vegetables, a bed of flowers, and some sugar beets which shall be the child's own exclusive property. No better place to inculcate the rights of children to possess their own things and not be interfered with by either parents or other children can be found than In this matter of growing flowers or vegetables. If the piece of land be given for the season to one child let the whole family guard that child's right as zealousy as each would his own. The father is easily persuaded to assist the mother in her 8 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN efforts to plough and prepare her soil but the mother, for the; sake of her children, must interest and secure the co-operation of each one of them in this life-giving toil. The next point to be considered is the fertilization of the soil. It is much better to do this in the fall, so that the snows and rains will carry deep into the earth the richness and lifegiving principles contained in the various fertilizers. Farmers have an abundance of this material right in our own barnyards and are not dependent upon the expensive and commercial fertilizers. See that the boys pile up the manure properly from week to week, so that another good coat of that material may be spread over your soil in the early spring.. The soil. after being spaded and ploughed, should be covered in fall with manure, then left to lie till spring when it is again ploughed Tip, and raked, removing all rocks and clods taken out of it, Another coating of fine manure is required in most instances, for a good garden, when the soil is ready for the seeds of spring-time. Some parts of our country are so fortunate as to require  little or no fertilization witness the rich lands of the Salt  River Valley but the rule is as stated above. After the severe months of winter, the latter weeks of February bring to us thoughts of green things soon to spring up on the face of the land and our desires turn from the heavy and monotonous diet of winter to the lighter and more succulent early vegetables. The blood needs this thinning and the system loudly calls for the change in diet. It will do us quite as much good to grow the delicious lettuce, radishes, young onions and pepper-grass as it will to eat them when they begin to come in next month. Let us now decide what to plant, how to plant it, and when to plant. Our catalogues and bulletins will here aid us in this choice. Remember, however, that your space must be considered and the choice of seeds and plants must be governed to some extent by the piece of land they are to be put in. For instance, it would be foolish to attempt to grow melons and winter potatoes on a city lot, while corn, melons, potatoes and all varieties of large vegetables can be planted in country lots. Select good seed. It is foolish to think we can raise fine flowers or vegetables from poor or inferior seed. Seeds cost little; and it is usually better to buy them from reliable persons or firms than to try to grow them ourselves. Learn thus early the habits and requirements of the plants you have chosen for your garden, the proper distance between each seed, the depth of plant root and water required and all other features RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 9 of your plants. Some need constant hoeing, others do not. Study all these small matters, for upon this depends the success or failure of your garden. Climatic conditions govern the times and seasons when you shall plant your seeds and plants. In the northern counties, April is early, while in the southern part of our state February sees lettuce and radishes well along. So that no rule can be given on this point. Consult old residents, if this is your first year of experience, and despise not the sayings of veteran gardeners. Use your intelligence in choosing between the extremes of any advice and work early, late and most of the time. Properly planting the right kind of trees, shrubs, and plants on the home grounds means much more than mere  beauty it has a decidedly practical side. It is cheaper to beautify the home grounds than to allow them to go bare and uninviting. Decorating the home grounds transforms a house into a home. It makes the house a part of a beautiful picture and surrounds it with such evidence of loving care that it immediately impresses the beholder with the feeling that people  "LIVE" in the house that they do not merely exist there. Many a man passing a farm home made lovely by trees and shrubbery has been lifted up above the sordid conditions which surround him and has immediately commenced to transform his own grounds in keeping with those of his neighbor. And so the gospel spreads. The Essentials to the Production of Choice Vegetables, Shrubs, Beautiful Flowers, etc. SOIL. A fair degree of success may be secured from any soil which can be made rich and pliable, but the very best results are obtained from a deep rich sandy loam. There are very few plants that do well on barren sand, a cold, hard, lumpy clay or in the shade of orchard or other trees. FERTILIZERS. A soil which does not need enriching to produce the best results is rarely, if ever, found, so the degree of success we attain is usually in proportion to the liberality with which fertilizers have been used. 10 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Well decomposed stable manure, where straw bedding has been used is the best; that where sawdust has been used is not 80 good. Often wood ashes, at the rate of one peek up to one bushel per square rod will be of great benefit. Commercial fertilizers are excellent and may be used at the rate of four to twelve pounds to the square rod. A mass or lump of any of the commercial fertilizers, even if it is not over a quarter of an inch in diameter, is liable to kill any seed or young plant which comes in direct contact with it, so it is very important that they be thoroughly pulverized and mixed with the soil. PREPARATION OF THE SOIL. Rich soil and liberal manuring will avail little without thorough preparation of the soil. It must be made friable by thorough and judicious working; if it is neglected only partial success is possible, and that at the cost of a great deal of hard work. The garden should be well ploughed or dug to a good depth, taking care, if it is a clay soil, that the work is not done when it is too wet. If a handful from the furrow moulds with slight pressure into a ball which can not be easily crumbled into fine earth again, the soil is too wet, and if stirred then, will be hard to work all summer. The surface should be made as fine and smooth as possible with the harrow or rake. It is generally necessary to plough the whole garden at once, and to do this in time for the earliest crops, but the part which is not planted for some time should be kept mellow by frequent cultivation. PLANTING PROPERLY. There is no greater source of disappointment and failure among amateur gardeners than hasty, careless or improper sowing of the seed. To secure germination, moisture, heat and a certain amount of air are necessary. The first steps are the softening of the hard outer shell from the absorption of the water, and the changing of plant food from the form of starch to that of sugar. In the first condition the food is easily preserved, but the plant cannot use it while in its sugary condition it is very easily appropriated, but perishable, and if not used it speedily decays itself and causes decay in the plant. A dry seed may retain its vitality and remain unchanged for years, but after germination has commenced, a check of a day or two in the process may be fatal. There is no time in the life of the plant when it is so susceptible to fatal injury from the overabundance or want of sufficient heat and moisture as at that: RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 between the commencement of germination and the formation of the first true leaves, and it is just then that it needs the aid of the gardener to secure favorable conditions. Therefore, the following must be kept in mind First: A proper and constant degree of moisture. The soil should always be moist, never wet. This is secured by making the surface of the freshly dug soil so fine and the pressing it over the seeds so firmly with the feet or the back of a hoe that the degree of moisture remains as nearly uniform as possible. Second: A proper degree of heat secured by sowing the seed when the temperature of the soil is that most favorable to the germination of the seed of the particular plant we wish to grow. Too high a temperature is often as detrimental as one which is too low. As every crop varies in this particular, the gardener should make a careful study of the requirements of each variety he wishes to plant. Such information is usually found on the seed package or in seed catalogues. Third: Covering the seed to such a depth that while a uniform degree of heat and moisture is preserved, the necessary air can readily reach the germinating seed, and the tiny stem push the forming leaves into the light and air. This depth will vary with the different seeds and conditions of the soil, and can be learned only by practical experience. Some very fine seeds and spores are sowed on the top of moist soil, others barely covered while others such as sweet peas, are planted Tery deep. Fourth: The soil should be in such a condition that the ascending stem can easily penetrate it and the young roots speedily find suitable food. This is usually secured by thorough preparation of the soil before planting. CULTIVATION. After the plant has germinated and become established, not only should every weed be removed as soon as it appears, but the crust which forms after a rain should be broken up and the ground stirred as soon as it is dry enough to permit it. The more frequently and deeply the soil is stirred while the plants are young, the better, but as they develop and the roots occupy the ground, cultivation should be shallower, until it becomes a mere stirring of the surface. A very small garden well cultivated and cared for will give larger returns and be in every way more satisfactory than a much larger one poorly prepared and neglected. 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN WHAT TO PLANT. What to plant will depend entirely upon the likes and dislikes of the family. However, in a good home garden, crops should be so arranged that there are some vegetables that can be used at any time during the growing season. When to plant these crops is usually indicated on the packages, but a little practical experience will soon put a person right. These subjects are treated in the U. S. Bulletin 257, which will be furnished, with many others, to anyone who applies at this office, through the courtesy of Senator Reed Smoot and Congressman Joseph Howells. The Utah Agricultural College has assisted in the preparation of this lesson and will send further information to any who apply to that College.