ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY
======================================================================

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper t exist. 
1. AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
2. WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
3. SALT LAKE KNITTING WORKS, 70 Main St., Salt Lake City. 
4. CRISMON & NICHOLS, 229-231 So. West Temple, Salt Lake City. 
5. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 251-259 E. First South, Salt Lake City. 
6. L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE, Salt Lake City. 
7. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
8. LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO., 255 South 2nd East St, Salt Lake City. 
9. UNIVERSITY OF UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
10. CO-OP.FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
11. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
12. HOTEL UTAH, Salt Lake City. 
13. RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
14. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME, 36 W. North Temple St., Salt Lake City. 
15. STAR PRINTING CO., 35 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City. 
16. MORRISON BAKING CO., 158 So. Main St., Salt Lake City. 
17. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. F. J. NICHOLS C. (1 CRISMON COLD TESTS Melted, Assayed, Purchased Cyanide, Concentration, Amalgamation CRISMON & NICHOLS ASSAYERS and CHEMISTS Office and Laboratory 229 & 231 So. West Temple St. Wasatch 2393. P. O. Box 78 Salt Lake City, Utah Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 S. M. TAYLOR & GO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS Successors to JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251=253=255=257 East First South St. Salt Lake City, Utah MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT EFFICIENT SERVICE THE LEADING COMMERCIAL SCHOOL OF THE WEST L D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Highest Efficiency. Lowest Rates. Ask for our Circular. Phone Wasatch 320 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN
Relief Society Bulletin 

Volume 1 Number 2 
Issued by the Officers and Directors of the GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY 1914 HUMAN SERVICE has come to be a consideration of political parties, or social organizations, and of educational institutions. THE RELIEF SOCIETY has been an instrument of human service for more than half a century. It ministers to the immediate material wants of the community. It has been pronounced by many students an institution for community charity. THE UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE at Logan aims^ in a very definite way to make each member of society a more capable producer, a better farmer, housewife, tradesman, agricultural engineer, or business man and thus aims to eliminate want. Its field of work therefore, properly co-operates with the work of relief societies in serving the men and women of the State. While Its courses are distinctly practical, it deals in a broad and fundamental way with the basic industries of the State. Liberal instruction is given in the natural and physical sciences, in mathematics, history, English, economics, literature and languages. The College has been slowly built into an embodiment of the State's idealism. ; Willes-Horne Drug Company News Building, Salt Lake City. Our Drug Store Is Complete TREATMENT PERFECT. PRICES RIGHT. WE SOLICIT YOUR PATRONAGE. Prompt Attention to Mail Orders. Lamboume Floral Dept. EVERYTHING FLORAL. DECORATIONS. FUNERAL WORK. Etc., Etc. Special Notice to Garment Users. It is recommended and advised by the most particular and careful buyers of L. D. S. Garments that TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS be used exclusively because of their superior quality, fit and finish. Be sure when making your purchases to look carefully in the neck of garments for the words TEMPLE BRAND, found immediately below the approved label. If they are not there the garment is not the APPROVED TEMPLE BRAND, manufactured exclusively by the Salt Lake Knitting Works for the better class of trade and discriminating purchasers. If your local dealer does not handle TEMPLE BRAND GARMENTS send your orders to Salt Lake Knitting Store, 70 Main treet. Salt Lake City. Postatse free to all parts of the United States. Prices as follows Best grade of combed cotton, gauze weight $1.00 Best grade of combed cotton, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, unbleached, medium weight 1.25 Superior cotton, bleached, medium weight 1.50 Superior cotton, unbleached, extra hea\'y weight 1.50 Best grade Sea Island lisle, gauze weight 1.50 Best grade combed cotton, heavy weight, fleeced  ....   1.75. . Best grade Sea Island mercerized, light weight 2.00 Wash shrunk, part wool medium weight 2.00 Wash shrunk. Merino wool, heavy weight 2.25 Wash shrunk. Utah wool, extra heavy weight   3.00       Wash shrunk, imported part wool, light weight, extra fine     . 3.00   . . Pure Australian Wool, medium weight...     4,00 Remember that postage is free, also that there is no substitution for Temple Brand Garments, and if you are not wearing them now you will some day. Then regret not having done so before. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE Salt Lake City, Utah Application for entry as second class matter for this publication made at Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Pending.   Phone Wasatch 320 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETINVOL. VOL. 1. February, 1914. NO. 2 ADDRESS. Occasionally inquiries reach the General Board concerning the duties and labors of new Presidents and Officers in the wards and stakes of Zion. The work of this Society has been so long before the people, the method of conducting our meetings, of administering our affairs, has so long ago been settled by tradition and custom that it seems as if all ought to be familiar with them. And indeed, there are only general rules and general lines, which mark our labors. Wards, stakes and individual officers are allowed great liberty in the adjustment of details and in the conduct of their Society affairs. There is one rule, however, which should be written deep in the heart of every woman in this kingdom  and conned frequently by those who hold office in this great organization, namely, respect for the priesthood. No woman who slights or neglects this primary law of the Church can hope to have that full degree of liberty and pleasure in her labors which is her privilege to enjoy. We seldom hear the good old-fashioned counsel on this point that used to ring from our pulpits. But it is none the less a saving principle of the Gospel.  Obedience to law obedience to the authority of the Priesthood. Everybody is quite willing to admit that we should obey law the laws of health, the laws of chastity, the laws of honesty, the laws of charity, and indeed all law and laws. Even those so-called laws of man, such as city ordinances, should be obeyed. And yet, could there be a law, without a law-giver and without an executioner of the law! What use would there be in having a law if there were no person to pronounce the law, no one to obey or to disobey it. No one to reward those who keep or punish those who break the law. Every community renders obedience to law, with few exceptions. If a law comes in contact with our prejudice or pleasures, we may try to evade the same, although we admit its justice. Today, women are restlessly trying to change laws in their favor. The women of this Church should honor th law of God. What is the Priesthood? It is the power to administer in 2 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN the ordinances of the Gospel. Other churches have ordinances, many of them similar to those obtaining in this church; but none of them have the authority to administer those ordinances. This power and Priesthood was entirely lost during the Dark Ages, when the Catholic Church ruled the Christian world. By the way, there was one woman Pope appeared during those dark and stormy days in Rome. Associated with this Priesthood is the right of presidency. Out of this grows the functions and offices of the presiding authority; of the Church, and of every quorum in the Church. Those who preside over the auxiliary organizations receive their authority from the presiding Priesthood. Women do not hold the Priesthood. This fact must be faced calmly by mothers and explained clearly to young women, for the spirit that is now abroad in the world makes for women's demand for every place and office enjoyed by men, and a few more that men can't enter. Women in this Church must not forget that they have rights which men do not possess. They have their own field, their own duties, their own privileges. It is cowardly to dodge this question in dealing with young women. But let the whole facts be stated. Then women will see how richly they are endowed and how righteously their place in this life and the life to come has been provided for. Women in this Church, choose to be womanly. They choose to honor their fathers and husbands. They choose their own sphere and duties with that calm, and gracious dignity which ensures to them a full life here and eternal happiness hereafter. There are some men, perhaps, that are the inferiors of some women, mentally, morally and physically. But a superior woman is not expected to look up to an inferior  man in her own home which is her sphere. When the one man comes who is the right one, he will be just one or more degrees superior in intelligence and power to the superior woman. But to all men, when in their priestly office, women owe the reverence due that priesthood. The man who holds that office and Priesthood may of himself be not the equal of some of the women who are associated with him in his ward or his public labors but if he holds an office in the Priesthood; and is sustained by his brethren in that office, women everywhere, as men who may be under his jurisdiction, should render that reverence and obedience that belongs of right to the Priesthood which he holds. The women of the Relief Society have long ago proved the value of obedience to law, and to law-givers. So that, when we suggest to our new officers that they shall go to their ward or stake authorities for counsel, and shall never refuse RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN I that advice, we are only repeating the same things that have been told in this organization from its beginning. Especially was Sister  Eliza R. Snow that great Mormon woman who presided over the Society after we came to these Valleys, and those who have followed her, Sister Zina D. Young, Bathsheba  W. Smith and our present President, Emmeline B. Wells these have been insistent in their advice to the sisters to seek counsel of the Priesthood and to honor those who held it. In any case where there is a question arising in your minds or between the members of your board, go to your bishop, or to the president of your stake and ask him or them for counsel Then accept it. The presidency of a stake has complete jurisdiction over the saints who reside in that stake. All the quorums and auxiliary organizations are under their direct supervision, and their counsel on any given point would be final. The same with the bishop of any ward. It is true that the general board of any auxiliary organization has direct charge of the various stake and ward organizations under them to arrange details of work, dates of conferences, mode of; procedure, choice of officers, or plans and arrangements of all kinds. But if the bishop of a ward or the president of a stake should raise an objection to such plans or details, his wish  would be paramount in his ward or stake until such time as a harmonious settlement of the question at issue could be obtained between the general officers and that local presiding officer. This is the order of the Priesthood and this should be understood by all members. Men, as well as women, are subject to this law of the Church. Only so could there exist that perfect order which is the cornerstone of this kingdom. We are asked concerning the customs of clothing our dead, washing and anointing the sick, the proper storing of grain, using outlines, choosing new officers; and all these questions come into the rightful jurisdiction of this society, and we will gladly answer according to the precedents of our Society. Yet any and all of these questions might be referred to the ward or stake Priesthood and their answers should be taken as final. We would always be glad to hear of such decisions, but would respect the authority in any given instance. This may be taken as the general rule or law of this Society. Let the sisters of this Society study the organization of the Church, the wonderful plan of its foundation and thus acquaint themselves with the order of the Priesthood. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN SECOND MEETING.