LITERATURE
======================================================================

LITERATURE. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (Thirty Minutes.) LESSON II. Subject: Early Struggles in Philadelphia. Reference: Chapter II, Autobiography. ''The cat in gloves catches no mice." 1. Franklin's first appearance in Philadelphia. Tired and hungry and in working clothes. Story of rolls. 2. Franklin's Self-reliance. (a) Independent at age of 17. (b) Earns money to clothe and feed himself and to take trip home. 3. Work with Keimer. (a) Character of Keimer. (b) Condition of office. (c) First work. (d) Anecdotes. (e) Keimer 's plan of religion. (f) Vegetable diet adopted. 4. Governor Keith's Attentions and Plans. (a) First meeting. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 (b) Subsequent meetings. (c) Keith's plans and promises. 5. Trip to Boston to Seek Father's Aid. (a) Presents Governor's letter. Father refuses assistance, but makes wise promise, (b) Franklin visits brother's office, (e) Learns valuable lesson from Quakeress on return trip, 6.Franklin's First Great Error. Story of Vernon's money. 7. Franklin's Friends. (a) Miss Read. (b) Charles Osborne. (c) Joseph Watson. (d) James Ralph. (e) Collins. 8. Anecdotes. (a) Franklin returns to animal food. (b) Franklin and friends at composition. Questions. 1. How does Franklin's cure for cold and fever compare with present-day remedies? 2. What advantage was Franklin's trade to him? 3. How did his early life tend to make him reliant? 4. What do you think of the refusal of Franklin's father to assist his son in setting up in business? 5. Relate three instances where Franklin attracted the attention of prominent people because of his attainments. 6. Relate the experiences of Franklin and his young friends in their efforts at literary composition. THE NEW AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE. (Ten Minutes.) Though the California Bungalow has its admirers there are those who think it too sombre a style with its wide projecting eaves and porches for our mountain climate that is nearly half the year locked in frost. Those who prefer a house open to the direct rays of sunshine will appreciate the new American style of architecture, for it seems to be the acme of simplicity. Nothing is used except for necessity. There is no lathe work; all lines are straight and simple.  14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN To a Chicago architect, Frank Lloyd Wright, we are indebted for this, perhaps the greatest inspiration that has been sent forth in the interest of honest house building. The foundation principle of the new American style is utility and when utility is wedded to beauty the union will result in the best art. There is a demand for beauty in the architecture of the home, but if it is to become great art and really take hold of the imagination, the beautiful must be constructive, must be a part of the very stones, the foundation, the walls, the roof, the doors, windows and porches of the building. There are three elements in house making that are sure to make or mar the beauty of a home, these are color, balance and proportions. When you come to select building material the color must be selected. You have an interesting field in which to choose. The most expensive and best fire brick is full of mottled, beautiful tones. Then there are red pressed brick and white pressed brick. Cement, which may be any selected color, and frame, which permits the greatest scope for the exhibition of taste in color are the materials most often used. Are the windows and doors too large or too small for your house? Study the subject of balance in the December, 1913, Delineator. Mr. Wright has made his fame in the new American architecture by a skilfull use of the panel which he uses both in construction and detail of finish. The panel is a vehicle well suited for revealing beautiful proportions, balance and color schemes. Note the Young Woman's Journal, February, 1914. RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION. Under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society there will be a three-days' convention held April 1, 2 and 3 in the Bishop's Building, twice daily, at 10 a. m. and at 2 in the afternoon. This Convention is held for the study of Genealogy, and to assist our class conductors and teachers to prepare themselves in this study. Each stake will be expected to send at least two delegates to this Convention bright, active women who are familiar with taking notes and studying outlines. These sisters will be expected to return to their respective stakes and become in turn teachers in this subject in their various localities. At the three days' classes the ten lessons on Genealogy which appeared in our Guide as Outlines will be taken up in detail and given in the form of RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 15 regular lessons to those assembled. We will have specially ruled note books, which will be on sale for 10 cents; these books are prepared by the Genealogical Society for this work. The Lesson Book on Genealogy can be purchased here at our Belief Society at the reduced rate of 20 cents. Although these classes will be held especially for chosen stake delegates of the Relief Society, all saints, both men and women, who may be in the city will be welcomed, to the extent of the seating capacity in the hall on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building. There are no fees to pay, and only the note books and lesson books to purchase for the study of this ubject. BOOKS FOR THE READING COURSE. There is some inquiry concerning the books recommended in our various lessons. We wish to announce that any or all of these books, with the exception of the United States Bulletins, will be sent on application to the city book stores, if the money be sent for them. Those who wish the U. S. Bulletins for the Home Gardening Lessons, of which there are nearly twenty, will please send their names and addresses to this office for these must be sent to Senator Reed Smoot and; Congressman Howell at Washington. The Bulletins will be furnished free, but, of course, could not be sent without the address of those who desire them. In the Art Lessons we would recommend the purchase of "Sadakichi Hartman's History of American Art." It is quite profusely illustrated from photographs and in photogravures, and the subjects cover not only painting, but American sculpture, and the various fields of American Art. The work is in two volumes, 8vo cloth, and is published and sold for $4.00 net. If we can secure several hundred orders for this work we can get it for about $2.00, or just half its retail price. It is published by Himebaugh & Browne, 415 Fifth Ave., at 37th St., New York City. But the orders for it may be sent to this office, and to the Deseret News Book store or the Deseret S. S. Union Book store, of this city. "The American City" is for the use of those who take up the Home Ethics Lessons, and is full of excellent suggestions and ideas for making beautiful surroundings, and sanitary conditions in our cities and in the home. This will be ordered also from the book stores. Cost, $1.25. It will be mailed in ten days after the order reaches here, as it must be ordered from the east. 16 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS. The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls was opened formally December 19, 1913, with brief and modest dedicatory services. The Home is situated opposite the North Gate of the Temple grounds, 36 West North Temple St. It represents the culmination of a long cherished hope and plan. Every woman in the Relief Society will rejoice at this new feature of our work. For there are many reasons why we should have such a place in this city. Women, without relatives or friends, come to this city to do work in the Temple, or to visit the conferences of the Church. They have no place to go, and they shrink from seeking lodging in the many public hotels, which offer all kinds of accommodations but security, friendship and association with our people. The hotels are good in their time and place, but not what is needed by such visiting women. Girls, who insist on coming to this city to get big wages, are too often allowed to drift about with no secure quarters where they may lodge until they can secure work, nor a place to go to while one place is exchanged for another or more desirable one. All these needs have been KELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 17 felt and realized for a long time by members of the General Board. In the olden days the saints in this city entertained the saints from the country and everybody knew everybody else, and there was no question of lodging houses or hotels. But times have changed; and some of our visitors now feel obliged to seek temporary lodgings in the various hotels and rooming houses. Our sisters do not want nor expect to have this accommodation without paying sufficient to keep up the expenses of the place, for they are possessed of the proper pride and dignity of character which makes them self-supporting under all circumstances. The sisters of this Society have contributed of their mites to build meeting houses, carpet temples, purchase silver for sacrament purposes; have sent money to the missionaries, nursed the sick, educated the nurses, clothed the dead and nurtured the orphan. But the day has come when they are going to be placed in positions where they can do some wise and kind things for themselves. This Home is such an enterprise. "When we were discussing the Home before President E. B. Wells one day she remarked that the Prophet Joseph Smith had given the Belief Society in Nauvoo a home for just  such a purpose as this. And the question at once arose is there anything that this wonderful man did not inaugurate and give the initial impetus for? What a Prophet he was and is. We bow to his kindly intelligence and reverence his god-like memory. The plan for establishing such a refuge was laid before the General Board of the Relief Society two years ago, and a Committee was appointed to look into such a project. Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley was appointed as Chairman of this Committee, with Sisters Elizabeth C. McCune and Elizabeth C. Crismon as the other members. Later on, because of the temporary absence of Mrs. McCune, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde was added to the Committee. These sisters have worked indefatigably to bring about the successful conclusion now manifested. When the Presidency of the Church and the Presiding Bishop were approached, they gave the project their heartiest support. Several houses were offered to the Committee to choose from and after careful consideration the one named was chosen. It is somewhat limited for room and will not be adequate long for the purposes of the Home. But it is a modest beginning, and it was felt wiser to begin thus simply and spread out as occasion may require. The house itself was built for Sister Jane Carrington Young in 1874 by her husband, 18 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN Apostle Brigham Young, Jr., and at her death passed into the hands of the Church. President Joseph F. Smith suggested the name when the matter was presented to him of "The Relief Society Home for Women and Girls," and such it has been named. On the evening of December 19th there were assembled in the cosy parlor of the Home President Joseph F. Smith, Presiding Bishop C. W. Nibley, Elder R. K. Thomas and Elders Arnold Schultess, C. E. Martin and A. B. Olsen, who where there as members of the Temple Quartette. Of the sisters present there were President Emmeline B. "Wells, her two Counsellors, Sisters Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith; Mrs. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley, who had charge of the services as the Chairman of the Home Committee Mrs. Elizabth C. McCune, Elizabeth C. Crismon and Janette A. Hyde of the Home committee Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. ; ; Susa Young Gates' and Miss Sarah M. McLelland of the General Board, and the Temple Quartette, with Sister Agnes McMillian Bolto as the contralto of that quartette. The Chairman, Sister Nibley, introduced the singers, who rendered the hymn, beginning "When Dark and Drear" in a feeling manner. Bishop Nibley offered the opening prayer, and the quartette sang "Gallilee." Sister Nibley then expressed her great joy shared by the Board in seeing the completion of this happy enterprise. She related the circumstance of the hurried opening of the Home in July to accommodate the visitors to the N. E. A. But not until the present time had the Committee been able to complete their plans and arrange for the formal dedication of the Home. She spoke of the generosity of the Church in giving the Board this spacious house for the beginning of our Home and they had been equally generous in the assistance needed to further renovate and remodel the place to suit our needs. She referred to the donations made by the Y. L. M. I. A., the Primary Board, the Tooele Stake Relief Society, the private donations of Sisters Annie Watson and Clarissa Smith Williams, Sisters Beatie, Jennings, Crismon and others, all of whom had contributed of their means and furniture to make the Home attractive and suitable. Bedding had been donated in goodly quantities by various Relief Societies, while individuals and firms had also given liberally. The moderate price for the rooms, from $6 to $25 a month, brought the Home within the reach of all the sisters who require its benefits. There had been already seventy-two guests entertained in the Home, and each one had given expression to their great pleasure in finding such a place, permeated as it was with the spirit of kindness RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 19 and charity. Sister Nibley read the House Rules, which were simple and yet effective. There had been non-members of the Church entertained at the Home, but all had united in like expressions of praise and appreciation. She spoke of the Employment Bureau which had been established in connection with the Home and hoped that the Latter-Day Saints girls who came to this city for work would avail themselves of its assistance and protection. The members of the Home Committee were remembered by the speaker and their labors referred to, while those members of the Board (Sisters Sarah McLelland, Edna May Davis and our kind Sister Maria B. Winder), who had served various terms as temporary patrons of the Home, were recalled with grateful words. The present matron, Mrs. Cornelia Home Clayton, is a woman of excellent character and kindly manners and received all who came in the proper spirit, and none were wounded or forgotten in her ministrations. President Emmeline B. Wells next expressed her great pleasure in having the President of the Church and the Presiding Bishop with us on this occasion. It had long been the desire of her heart to see such a place as this provided for the care of the girls and women who need this protection and comfort. She invoked the blessing of God upon all who came here, the priesthood and all who are interested in this good work. President Joseph F. Smith then offered the Dedicatory prayer. He said in part: "Our Father in Heaven; we Thy children have assembled here this evening for the purpose of dedicating this House for the object and purpose for which it is designed. While we call upon Thy name, may Thy spirit direct our minds and thoughts. We are very grateful for this expression of Thy kindness towards us Thy children in permitting us to obtain a Home for those who may seek its shelter. We would always remember Thy kindness and Thy much mercy towards us in all these things. To this end we ask Thee to bless those of thy daughters who have contributed of their means to this enterprise; may they feel abundantly blessed and may their reward be multiplied unto them; for inasmuch as they have cast in their mites may they feel that they have not invested them in that which perishes with the using. To this end wilt Thou bless the General Board of this great Society. May they be united as the heart of one. May they be joined together in the bonds of love and true fellowship; and may each one have a voice in the affairs of this organization, and each therefore feel the responsibility which rests upon all. So wilt Thou bless Thy handmaids. Especially 20 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN bless those who preside over this Society and the sisters who are in immediate charge of this home. May each receive the spirit of her work and calling. Bless the Matron, that she may be inspired in all her duties and labors. That wisdom and great intelligence may go hand in hand with the spirit of human kindness which would pervade this Home. That kindness which is tempered with prudence and wisdom. Let all work together for the good of the whole that nothing out; of harmony with the principles of truth and righteousness may enter or obtain in these walls. Bless and sanctify the sisters who labored to this purpose. And if at times they are called upon to assist the poor or succor the afficted, may they help and minister in the spirit of charity and love, with the aid of those principles that make for happiness here and hereafter. Father, look upon this Home and bless it we pray Thee. Accept all that has been done and contributed by the Church, and by the sisters who have assisted. Bless this building; preserve it from the devouring elements. ^lay it be solid in its foundations, and safe in its appointments. May it be indeed an abode of peace and righteousness. May the walls of the rooms thereof be filled with the spirit of peace and that spirit which gives us all understanding and joy. May every object desired be realized by all who need that assistance. We dedicate this Home and bless it and ask Thee to sanctify it as a place of peace and rest for the weary. That the poor may not be spurned from its doors, but that they may be ministered to as they need and require. That in the day of judgment we may realize that it may be said of us: "I was an hungered and ye fed me I was sick and ye ministered unto me I was in; ; prison and ye visited me." For inasmuch as we do this unto the least of His children we have so ministered unto Him. We do dedicate and bless this Home, and we do it by virtue of the Holy priesthood invested in us. Amen." Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams then moved a rising vote of thanks by the members of the General Board there present to the Presidency of the Church and to the Presiding Bishopric for their generous gift and assistance. It was unanimously carried. Bishop C. W. Nibley then made a few but most timely remarks. He endorsed the proceedings and the whole project. He complimented the members of the Committee and all the sisters engaged in this Relief Society work. The speaker  quoted the words of the Savior "Seek ye first the kingdom  of God, and his righteousness" that should be the ideal of the sisters engaged in this great work. Seek first the kingdom of God. the interests of that kingdom. His purpose and power and not seek our own purposes and desires. We should do RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 21 what we can in the saving of souls, in assisting those who are in need, being prudent and careful in all these matters and in the expenditure of all funds -entrusted to our care. "I commend this Society for its work throughout the Church. If we can only hold to the ideals laid down by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the organization of the Society we shall not go astray. I dont believe," said the speaker, "that we appreciate the magnitude and greatness of the work you sisters are engaged in. To be ministering angels, to wear the garb of charity, to bless and teach mankind this is a wonderful work and calling. *Ye are not of the world for I have chosen you out of the world,' said the Savior. This organization should be different from anything in the world, greater in its scope, bigger in its work than anything the world can do, and not patterned after the foolish habits of those who know not God and His kingdom. Rivet the sayings of the Savior on your minds, sisters, and seek ye first His righteousness. If ever there was a time when we needed to follow the counsel of our leaders and live according to the principles of the Gospel independent of the world and its ways it is now. May the Lord bless this Home and those who come here and those who labor here. Amen." The quartette sang, "We thank Thee, God, for a Prophet," and the prayer of dismissal was pronounced by Elder R. K. Thomas. In closing this article we would like to emphasize the importance and value of the Employment Bureau which we have established in our Home for our Latter-Day Saint girls who desire work in this city. They will be certain to find friends and assistance in securing respectable places. Bishops and parents would do well to note this feature of our work. The prices are moderate and service is prompt and reliable. 22 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN FUTURE ACTIVITIES OF THE SOCIETY. The unrelated work done by the various auxiliary organizations of the Church and the confused and crowding conference dates on which the auxiliaries hold their various conferences, has been the subject of much thought and discussion. Recently a co-relation committee was appointed by the Presidency of the Church, with representatives from the Council of  the Twelve ^Elder David McKay being chairman of that committee and two or more members of each general board. These brethren and sisters have labored now for some time in preparing their comprehensive and excellent report, covering all points connected with conference dates, mode of apportioning time at those conferences, with the study along theological lines to be followed by each organization. This report has not yet been made public but we are pleased to acquaint our own; organization with the matters that it contains belonging to us. According to this arrangement all auxiliary organizations are to hold their conferences at the same time that the stake conferences are in session. That is, the Relief Society, as all the other organizations will have a portion of the time on both Saturday and Sunday when the regular stake conference convenes. The time each organization has for the presentation of its particular work is the same, but the dates are arranged in rotation. The months for the holding of our Relief Society conferences are May, June and July; with the exception of the Salt Lake City stakes and those very close to this city. These are to be held in November. The time given for our work at the stake conferences is Saturday forenoon, with an officers' meeting on Sunday morning between 9 a. m. and 10:25 a. m.. and Sunday evening. This gives the Relief Society one private meeting on Saturday morning, an officers' meeting on Sunday morning and a public session on Sunday evening. The rest of the time will be occupied with the business of the stake conference. The study which is to be provided for our Relief Society theological department is to be the same as that taken up by the quorums of the Melchisedek Priesthood. For this year, however, we have been permitted to use our genealogical study in its place. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN. 23 ANNUAL DUES. Stake officers will be reminded that our Annual Day is approaching. While making arrangements for the festivities and programes which mark that event, let us not forget the annual dues. The officers should explain in the spirit of love and kindness the many and good reasons why the dues have been raised from ten cents to twenty-five cents. This matter was entered into fully and was agreed upon at our annual business meeting of the October (1913) conference, by the representatives of the stakes there assembled. Take up this work of explanation and conversion in due season so that all shall understand and be prepared for this change. Our society is growing rapidly and new lines of activity are springing up. The harvest is ripening fast and our laborers must be prepared to thrust in our sickles and reap. BURIAL CLOTHING. Sister Julina L. Smith, chairman of the Temple Clothing Committee, wishes to thank the saints for their support in this new undertaking. But owing to delays and misunderstandings which arise, the saints residing outside of Salt Lake City are urgently requested to write either to Larkin-Hull Co., undertakers, or to S. M. Taylor & Co., undertakers, both of this city, for anything in this line they may desire. This will prove more satisfactory to all concerned. Those residing in this city are invited to call at the Beehive House for any clothing desired for this purpose. COMMUNICATIONS. All inquiries or communications about our lessons, book, advertising and Bulletin business generally should be adRELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN, Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. ICE CREAM SHERBETS PUNCHES and CANDIES are the "BEST BY TEST" Special prices to all Ward and School Socials etc. TWO STORES 55 Main St. 260 State St. Prompt Delivery Phones: Wasatch 32233224 THOMAS HULL ELIJAH A. LARKIN GEO. W. LARKIN ALMA J. LARKIN LARKIN-HULL UNDERTAKING CO. EMBALMERS AND FUNERAL DIRECTORS. CHAPEL & PARLORS 255 SO. 2nd EAST ST. Phone Wasatch 5132 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH W N. Williams, Supt. . Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y & Treas R. N. Wilson. Asst. Supt Guaranteed Furniture at Lowest Prices Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's ' 'Zi most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable. Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Qo-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT Co-op. Furniture Co. Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH AT YOUR SERVICE THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND SCIENCES Preparation to make a life as well as a living. Courses in general science, liberal arts, commerce, and preparation for business THE STATE SCHOOL OF MINES Preparation for all branches of Engineering. A school in the west where a great country is in the making where the building of; highways, railroads, power plants, canals, and commercial and industrial structures of all kinds must push forward rapidly to keep pace with an expanding population a school; in the heart of one of the biggest mining regions of America, where are the greatest copper mines of the world, and the most extensive smelting plants. THE STATE SCHOOL OF EDUCATION Preparation for Teaching in common schools and high schools. A school that has drawn favorable attention from educators of high standing in our country, for its sensitive and sensible attitude In relation to modern educational theory. THE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE Offering a combined course in Arts and Medicine (four years.) THE SCHOOL OF LAW Offering full preparation for the practice of law. A young department with high standards, thorough methods, and some novel advantages. All the work in these several schools is fully up to the standard requirements, and is accepted in full by the best Universities in the United States. For full particulars, address UNIVERSITY OF UTAH. Salt Lake City. Utah. SUPPORT HOME INDUSTRY Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory School Shoes for boys they keep the feet warm and dry. Men's solid Shoes serviceable for the farmer, the laborer, the mechanic. Try our Summit, Bannock, Wyoming or West= ern Scout Shoes. We manufacture the famous **Mountaineer" or "The Leader" Overalls ask for them. HOTEL XJTAH: 500 Rooms. Fireproof Opened June 8, 1911 "The very best of every, thing at sensible prices." Rates for room without bath $1.50 and $2.00. With bath $2. 50 per day and upwards. Under the Management of GEORGE O. RELF BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Board Society General FURNISHES COMPLETE BURIAL SUITS Phones Wasatch 3455 and Wasatch 207 Salt Lake City Utah RELIEF SOCIETY HOME FOR WOMEN AND GIRLS ROOMS REASONABLE Employment Bureau in connection with home. 36 West North Temple St. Phone Wasatch 4478 J. Star Printing Company 35 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 1370 Salt Lake Citi), Utah "Big Oaks From Little Acorns Grow" ''the story of the hot scotch pie IN SIX CHAPTERS CHAPTER ONE JUST THIRTY YEARS AGO With a little old fashioned "pie can," on the corner of First South and Main Streets, T. H. Morrison introduced his now famous "Hot Scotch Meat Pie" to Salt Lake's lovers of good things to eat. The beginning was humble, but, like all great things, it began in a humble way, and surely but steadily won its way into the hearts (and stomachs) of the people, with the result that TODAY, MORRISON HOT SCOTCH PIES ARE A HOUSEHOLD WORD You'll find them served with their inimitable flavor and  crisp brown crust, in every up-to-date restaurant Get the Morrison Hot Scotch Pie habit it's a healthy habit,  buy them where y ou see our card take them home for the  evening meal but be sure they'er Morrison's Hot Scotch Pies. **BETTER THINGS TO EAT'* TWO PLACES CIORNER MAIN & 1st SO. 158 SOUTH MAIN ST. WHILE LABORING FOR THE POOR AND AIDING THE WIDOW IN WANT, DON'T NEGLECT YOURSELF AND FAMILY Have they the proper protection in case of sickness or death of your bread winner or will you be compelled to look for charity? Has he sufficient life insurance to assure you this protection? JOHN C. CUTLER LORENZO N. STOHL 1st. Vice President. 2nd. Vice Pres. & Mgr. INSURANCE OVER IN FORCE $12,000,000.00 JOSEPH F. SMITH President. Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home office, Vermont Building Salt Lake City, Utah C. W. NIBLEY RICHARD W. YOUNG Member Ex. Com.