A Family of Slaves that Help You By Newman I. Butt
In former days only kings could afford slaves. Today even the commonest family makes use of many of them. Not human slaves, but inanimate workers that take much of the drudgery from life.
Perhaps you have never looked upon petroleum and its products as slaves, but they are as truly made to do the physical and other work of man as were the slaves of the ancients. The old kings had perhaps a dozen slaves carry him and attend to him on certain trips. Does it ever occur to you that when you jump into your car and take an hour's ride that you have had the equivalent-of ten slaves' services. A gallon of gasoline in a good automobile does about as much work as ten ordinary men do in a day.
Many farm homes now enjoy the services of this same faithful aid to mankind. When you switch on a light of a farm lighting-system run by gasoline, you are drawing on power which is the equivalent of one man's work. The ordinary gas engine, on the farm, which pumps the water, runs the milking machines, and - other labor saving devices might be likened to ten or to twenty laborers.
Gasoline is one of the great emancipators of man, It makes it possible for him to run errands in a fraction of the time it did before he learned to use it. With it he can don wings and outdistance birds from two to five or six times. The deer was regarded as the fleetest of living things in days gone by, but the gas engine has transferred this honor to man.
In the United States, in 1922, the consumption of gasoline was about six billion gallons, and if we consider each gallon as the equivalent of the labor of ten men we see that it is the same as if we had about two working men attending every man, woman, and child in our country.
But the automobile is doing more than merely speeding up our footsteps. Some people get no better schooling than the automobile furnishes. It is educating people on isolated farms as no other agent has done. It is allowing them to become better acquainted with their country and to enjoy entertainments and privileges which they have never known before. It is helping to build up good roads, so that farm products can more easily and cheaply be brought to the market. And it is perhaps giving a better course in mechanics and the care of machinery, than any other agent of today.
Thinking of the power locked within gasoline is likely to make one inquire into its history, and if we do this we come across a wonderful story. Gasoline, as most everyone knows,
SLAVES THAT HELP YOU: 65
comes from petroleum, which in turn comes from the mysterious bowels of the earth. Petroleum has been known for ages. The ancient Greeks burned it in their torches. They believe that one of their gods stole fire from heaven and brought it down to man in a hollow reed. For this crime the god was chained to the Caucasian mountains and from his torn liver streams of black petroleum have flowed ever since. In Asia Minor petroleum to this day is burning and flowing from certain fissures in the earth.
The Greeks, however, found too easy an explanation of the origin of petroleum. Scientists of today mostly agree that this wonderful substance has come from the partial decay ofother wonderful material—the living plants and animals. In the trees and vegetables about us mother nature is patiently collecting energy from the sun and storing it in her beautiful gardens. A great forest tree, in a year, stores up about as much energy as we use in burning five gallons of gasoline or about one seventh of that contained in the food a man eats in a year. Somehow or other a portion of this energy is preserved from the decay which befalls most living matter. For many past ages, mother nature has been carefully tucking this preserved vegetable matter into the beds of the earth where this precious energy has been sleeping until we discovered it and put it to work. Today we are greedily absorbing about twenty-three billion gallons of petroleum a year for various purposes.
Gasoline is only one of the two hundred or more petroleum products which man has made to serve him. The manufacturers can secure only 26 per cent of gasoline from crude petroleum, although they would be glad to secure a larger proportion of this highly prized labor-saver. Perhaps the most familiar of the other products is kerosene, or coal oil. Kerosene has been a faithful servant of man for a much longer time than gasoline but mostly in another capacity. It contains about the same amount of energy as gasoline, and to a limited extent is used to do the mechanical work of man through the agency of engines in the same way. The big task of kerosene, however, has been to furnish us with light and heat. We may consider that light is caused by a high degree of heat and the hotter the fire the more light it gives off. Now, man might be regarded as a heat generating machine. The food we eat that is made use of in the body is burned and the heat from it is thrown off by the body. On the average our bodies throw off about one fifth as much heat in an hour as an ordinary two ounce candle gives off in being completely burned. If we secured from human sources the heat for the cooking and lighting that is done with kerosene in an average country home, it would just about take the equivalent of the energy from one person for each purpose. Of course, if the family washing were also done by heat from kerosene the


man-power would be much greater. About two billion gallons of kerosene are used in the United States each year and a considerable proportion of it is used by the housewife in her lamps and heating stoves.
In better lighting and more convenient heating the petroleum family has proved nearly as useful servants as they have in furnishing us with stronger and better muscles.
Many of the petroleum family such as kerosene, machine oil, and paraffin are greasy and nasty to handle when you have on your best clothes, but some of the others are regular grease and dirt chasers. Among the latter the best known ones are benzine, naptha and gasoline. Just as they are distilled off from the crude petroleum in making the separation of the different constituents, they are very dirty because they are such good grease dissolvers. The manufacturers have to treat them with the powerful chemical, sulphuric acid, to make them let go of the greases and then put them in a bath tub where they are washed with water and later with lye to get them clean, before they could be trusted in the hands of the housewife. They treat kerosene in much the same way to cleanse it also, but benzine, naptha and gasoline must be much cleaner than kerosene when they are to be used for taking grease from clothing. When using these cleaners we do not depend upon their energy or brute strength to accomplish our work but upon what we might term their tact. The grease is clinging with all its might to the little crevices of the cloth or other material upon which it had splashed, but the cleaning fluid persuades it to unwind its arms and form little droplets which may be removed without grabbing out for something else to cling to.
Benzine is also extensively used in making many common - articles about us, such as oil cloth and linoleum. It is not used in the product as we know it, but only in dissolving the paints and other sticky material which must go into the product. Without cheap solvents such as this, linoleum and oil cloth would be much more expensive than at present.
The old kings used to have servants prepare the path on which they were to walk. Today we use the petroleum products to smooth our pathways. By this it is not meant the streets we walk upon, although it finds some use in this way. I refer to the smoothest roadways in use today, the bearings of our wheels. For the loads they move the railroad car wheel and the wheel of the automobile move easier and smoother by dozens of times than man can move the same loads. All of the oils which you squirt into your machines to make them run easily and smoothly are part of our petroleum family. The bearings of the machines appear to be perfectly smooth to the naked eye, but when viewed under the microscope we find great hills and valleys which tend to cut the machine to pieces in a short time. But part of our
SLAVES THAT HELP YOU 67
family of petroleum products are the uncomplaining sort that can be walked on without squirming. Many place the oil about where it is needed and it meekly flattens itself out into the tiny valleys of the machinery bearings and allows the wheel, whether it be a tiny sewing machine wheel or a tremendous locomotive wheel, to slide over it on the smoothest roadway in the world. Without such a lubricant, as we call it, the burden placed upon man's shoulders would be multiplied many times, because many pieces of machinery would be impracticable.
In this discussion we have treated the products of petroleum somewhat in the order in which they are driven from the mother products, in the manufacturing process. All of the above products are liquids and distil or evaporate from the petroleum without great difficulty. The remaining few which we shall discuss are all solid or semi-solid in nature...
The first of these solids, we might liken to a minor lifeguard, although it is really only the plebeian vaseline which we find in ten cent stores and which milk maids use to soften the cows udder. It also is often used in place of other lubricants for greasing machinery. Of course, it is frequently mixed with other substances and sold under some high sounding name, but it is still the same humble servant. It is probably this part of petroleum which made it so highly prized by the ancients as a cure for camel or horse bruises and sores, It is still as fine a remedy for certain types of sores and cracked skin as we find.
Every housewife knows the petroleum product, paraffin, which is so useful in keeping the ravenous bacteria and fungus from stealing her jellies and jams. If she saw it just as it comes from the petroleum, she probably wouldn't recognize her old friend, however, because it is a black, foul-smelling waxy-appearing stuff with black oil all through it. It goes through several cleaning processes and finally comes out so white and pure looking that we do not hesitate to use it as chewing gum during fruit preserving time.
There is an interesting story which might be told of many of the rest of the petroleum family, but enough has been said to show the reader that it is indeed a wonderful family of what we might call servants of civilized man. But man is not taking the proper care of his petroleum servants. He is wantonly taking the material from its home in the depths of the earth and destroying much of it. Everywhere we find gasoline being wasted by improper adjustments of the automobile carburetor, and by useless waste in other ways. It is estimated that fully a third and perhaps half of all this great store of energy is being wasted. We are likely to pay dearly for this extravagance some day, because the natural stores are rapidly being exhausted; and when they are gone, this slave of mankind will be very strongly missed.