The Rocking Chair Route By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
I SHOULD have been a man. That being the case I could have traveled the earth's broad surface picking flowers of satisfaction in unfrequented and inaccessible places. I might then have become rich and famous. But I am a woman and as such must do my adventuring vicariously while my feet of clay cling to their ordained path of Repetition and Routine.
NEAR my home is a desert. I love to ride along the oiled highway that runs through it. But I love much more the numerous little dirt byways that spring from it. There is something so inviting, so intriguing about their half-disclosed, half-hidden tracks. I look at them and long for the days of saddles and pack horses. When, seemingly, there is nothing between earth and sky but sage I come suddenly upon a trail, that starting boldly from the highway, grows modest and with a quick turn defies me to follow it. Often the trail is so faint it's very indistinctness challenges the imagination. Just what is it trying to hide? Is there something especially precious ahead that needs be hidden from a curious crowd? Occasionally there are sign posts. One says, "to Grandview" and I look wistfully toward the Owhyee Mountains in the blue distance knowing this road leads to them. But what lies between? There is another sign that says, "to Black Creek." Now what is Black Creek? Is it a creek, a canyon, or a mere name for one of those places where a creek should be? I watch intently and see black shadows between high mountains but to the right are rolling slopes covered with a green that can be nothing less than fall grain. Ahead. Ahead. Someday I shall find out what lies beyond. Being a mere woman and steering wheel shy I sit sedately beside the Man of the Family and follow his inclination which is the shortest line between two points.
BUT there is one way I can go where the Spirit listeth and no man shall say me nay. That is the Rocking Chair Route. Through it I am able to explore not alone the Blue Owhyee Mountains and the Black Creek Canyon but the dry stretches, the sage slopes, the unexpected coulees between. By this route I can explore not Idaho Mountains only but all the Mountains and Plains that are upon the Earth. By turning pages I may see Nature in her wildest, darkest or gayest mood and hear the medley of her voices. Someone spills words trippingly from the tongue. One chants a prayer. A mother cries out in anguish. A lover whispers sweet promises under a silver moon. I hear them all. Nor am I limited to Time. There comes the roll of drums, the marching, marching of endless generations to the west. The step by step upward struggle. The emerging of Good.
BY following this route I find Selma Lagerlof with her Rings and Curses and Milkmaids of Old Sweden. I hear the clatter of farm men as they gather about the fire in the evenings. I hear the deep tones of her bells of the New Jerusalem and catch my breath over her view of the Eternal City. Along the same byway I discover Johan Bojer. I travel with him the fiords and forested slopes of Norway and with his Emigrants weep over the abundance of life-producing soil in the Dakotas. In the same general direction but reached by dark toilsome ways is Anna Karenina and a host of her countrymen led by Count Tolstoi. But these are for a darker mood and not to be traveled with too great familiarity so I hasten back to Flanders Field. I climb with William Tell among the Swiss Alps and while resting take a swift peek into a glamorous old Castle on the Rhine. Then down the Blue Danube toward the Far East. Pausing by the Black Sea I scan the battle-scarred hills of the Crimea and exult that courage could make good come of so much evil and ignorance. Then away and away to the Seeonee Hills where, with the children beside me, I sit on a sheltered log and listen for the Night Song of the Jungle. In the chorus we recognize the deep voice of Baghera; we catch the Cry of the Wolf Pack and the chatter of the Bander-log. We see, too, the shadowy figure of Little Toomai on the broad back of Kala Nag and from over the plains of Punjab we listen again to The Tales from the Hills. Sometimes it is the Orient that attracts me and I watch breathlessly The Pageant of Chinese History unroll before my eyes. The gorgeous silken robes, the stately manner, the filial devotion arouses within me all I have of courtesy and nobleness.
THERE are days when the Known in history and human relationships is too evident and I sneak back along the road of Time hunting the Neanderthal man and the Mysteries of Peoples long since dead. This path is marked with careful diggings and persistent reconstructions. It leads me into the Great Southwest, to the almost inaccessible fastnesses of the Andes and to the jungles of Central America and Mexico. The way is not clearly marked here and one must hunt carefully lest they be deceived by spurious signs. I wander among Ghostly Ruins, Weird Tradition and scarcely glimpsed visions that makes more vivid the journeying and teaching of a Chosen People. I finish it with more faith in Things That are to Come.
THERE is another trail I never travel except in a chastened mood. It is a long, long trail winding a thousand miles over prairie and desert and through mountain defiles. It is marked by nameless graves and hallowed by the Tears and Heart's Blood of a Mighty Host. I finish it with tears in my eyes and thanksgiving in my heart. I bow in Reverence before their Courage while I vow in my heart to live worthy of my Heritage.
It is a satisfying way this Rocking Chair Route of mine. It holds no discomforts. It costs nothing and has the added attraction of eliminating Time and Space. I can be in The Heart of Midlothian one day and With Byrd at the South Pole the next. When you are tired try it.