Character Building of the Little Child By Ida M. Durnin
AS surely and imperceptibly as the passing of time the character of the little child is formed. We cannot follow the growth of the child's character, yet we know that day by day the habits of the child are being formed in the home. He is simply the raw material out of which character is to be fashioned by the almost imperceptible influence of his surroundings. All parents desire the best for their children in both mental and physical ways. But so often we do not know what is the best. It is not the fine furniture in the house that makes the ideal home but rather the attitude of the parents in the home however small it may be as example is, of course, the best teacher, and children learn by what they see the parents do, and not by what they are told. They must study the children as individuals and teach them, while they are small the fundamental habits of cleanliness, helpfulness and manners we so much desire for our children as they grow into men and women.
Every mother will admit that it is far easier to do all the little trivial tasks about the house than it is to teach little bungling fingers how to do these tasks, but patient teaching will result in much good, as the child is learning co-operation, responsibility in the care of the home, and also the surplus energy of the child is being utilized in other ways than in boisterous play.
As soon as the child is old enough to play and scatter toys about he is old enough to help mother put them away. A bottom drawer in a cupboard or dresser is an ideal place for toys as it is easy for the small child to get them out when he wants them, and after a few times of helping him pick up the toys and put them away, it will come natural and he will consider it part of the play time if just a few words of praise and encouragement are given by mother when everything is nicely put away. It is well to watch the child that he does not get over tired at his play before starting to put the toys away or there may be a scene and he refuse to pick them up.
As the lesson in putting away toys is being taught, he can also learn to hang up his little coat and cap, but before trying to teach this neatness be sure that the hangers are pretty and bright and low enough for him to reach easily. In the bath room too see that a little stool is provided that he may be able to reach the washbowl with ease, have his own little towels within easy reach, also bright colored wash cloth, pretty colored soaps which are now put out by National Soap Manufacturing companies, bright handled tooth brushes and paste that tastes like gum is an incentive to clean teeth. One of the things that the modern dentist tries to impress upon young mothers is that the baby teeth should receive just as careful care as the second set.
As the child grows older and acquires an accumulation of toys just like mother uses, only smaller, they may be turned to good account in child training, a toy broom will sweep the porch and steps just as well as a larger one. The toy electric iron that is such a joy to every little girl to iron her doll clothes, can be used to teach her to iron small articles for mother, and iron them well. Wash days are never a joy even with the best equipment, but it is really a help if the child has a toy line and pins and hangs up all the small pieces which are such a nuisance when one is tired and in a hurry. It is surprising how young a child may be taught to put a room in order, papers and magazines picked up and placed in the rack, and while doing this the accumulation of litter and trash on the living room floor can be picked up, and by using praise and patience with their first efforts it is surprising how soon a child will be able to do a good job of setting a room to rights and saving mother hundreds of steps a day.
A pretty bright colored dust cloth with little apron and cap to match is a clever way to make dusting attractive, as every little girl likes to dress up. Little son likes to do chores when father is doing his and the feeling of the importance of co-operation makes every task a pleasure to him, of course it's necessary to have tools and equipment suited to his size, and here again the practical toys come into use, there is almost no end of uses for the small wagon and wheelbarrow; these with the toy shovel, rake and hoe, can be utilized to keep the yard free from litter and trash. Chips, cobs and wood can be hauled to the back door for mother, and if a nice spicy, brown cookie, and a sunny smile from mother greets the little worker, how much more easily and more cheerfully will all these tasks be done, and how much happier will the child be in its efforts to help mother, if these efforts are duly appreciated and encouraged by words and looks of praise.
It is never too early to begin training our children to be useful men and women, and to form their character that they may be able to take their place in the scheme of life and be able to carry on successfully.
PRAYER AT THE TRAIL'S BEGINNING By Linnie Parker
As I stand at the foot of the mountain And gaze at the peaks I must scale, Oh, dear God, give me strength not to falter As I climb up the rough, rocky trail!
All life's pathway has been so delightful? So smooth and so easy before, That my feet, unaccustomed to climbing Have thousands of perils in store.
Give my feet and my hands that firm sureness They'll need for this dangerous road, Give me vision that's clearer and keener, And strengthen my back for its load;
Give me courage to keep right on climbing? From here it looks hard, but I know That the trail will grow less steep and rugged With each forward step that I go;
Give me faith in the One who created This steep mountain-side and the trail? May I know He who called me to climb it Will give me the strength not to fail!