BARGAIN IN MUSIC.
	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover. The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, my Pretty Louise; I Really
Don’t Think I Shall Marry; Dreaming of
Home; The old Cottage Clock: Across the Sea;
A Year Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I;
Good Night; One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in
the Orchard; The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Fare-
well; Polly; Whisper in the Twilight. This is
a very fine collection of real vocal gems, and
gotten up in very handsome style. Published
in the usual way and bought at a music store,
these 32 pieces would cost you $11.20. We
bought a job lot of this music at a great sacri-
fice, and as the holidays are past, we desire to
close out our stock at once. Will send you the
entire collection, well wrapped and postpaid,
for only 40 cts. Send immediately.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


The Queen of Holland presented a remarka-
ble gift to the King on his seventieth birthday.
The ladies in waiting carried in an immense 
bouquet, which they placed before His Majesty.
The King was greatly surprised when sud-
denly the top of the bouquet opened, and the
head of his infant daughter peeped out of the 
flowers.
	Miss Lucy Larcom seldom makes plans for
anything; when she says to herself that she
will write something, she is pretty sure not to
do it; and she seldom knows where she is going
till she starts.  Her usual summer resorts are
Centre Harbor and (in August and September)
the higher White Mountain regions.  She is
not now engaged upon any connected work,
but will probably write some verses or sketches
—or both—before the summer is over.


