	PRIMARY MEETING AND FAIR.

	On Tuesday June 28, we attended the Primary
Annual Meeting and Fair in the 17th
Ward Schoolhouse.  Mrs. Julia C. Howe is the
active and efficient President of that association.
She is assisted in her labors by Mrs. B. W. Smith
and Ella Dallas, who are intensely interested in
the instruction of the little people.  There were
quite a number of visitors present.  The meeting
opened with singing by the children, “’Tis meet-
ing day;” they seem to have had excellent train-
ing in music.  Prayer by Sister Sinah Bishop;
singing, “Around the throne of God.”  Minutes
of last annual meeting read and adopted; pro-
gramme exercises; Questions upon baptism by
Coun. Dallas, answered by the children; Recita-
tion, Maggie Snell; do. Ellen Kimball; Song
Gwendoline, May, Mabel and Ethel Lewis, ex-
ceptionally well rendered.  Bible Sketch of the
Prophet Daniel, Freddie Alder, read by his sister
on account of his absence; Alice May
Farr; Recitation, Nellie Howarth; Song,
Minnie and Maude Pratt; select Reading, Clara
Groesbeck; Recitation, Libbie Rich; Recitation,
Nellie Dwyer; Music, Battle of Waterloo, given
by little Gwendoline Lewis in fine style; Essay on
Tithing by little Sadie Smith, who was sick and
not able to attend, was read by President Howe,
who also made some remarks, giving items from
her experience since having charge of the associa-
tion.  Brief addresses to the children were made
by Sisters E. C. Clawson, M. I. Horne, S. Bishop,
Z. D. H. Young, M. A. Hyde, E. B. Wells.
After these sisters had addressed the meeting and

[Column 2]
singing Love at Home, a presentation was made
by Coun. Dallas to Sister M. Y. Dougall, who
for several years had filled the position of Coun-
selor in the association.  The memento was worked
on canvas and handsomely framed containing the
words, “To Counselor Mrs. M. Y. Dougall a small
token of love and esteem from the members of the 
Primary Association, Salt Lake City, June 1887.”
Bendiction by Sister B. W. Smith.
     The articles on exhibition at the Fair made a 
very nice showing and commended the exertions
of all interested.  Geneve Ellerbeck aged eight,
an etched splasher; Julia Howe the same age do.
Nellie Howarth aged eleven, Libbie Rich nine,
Annie Price nine, Julia Grow twelve Minnie Pratt,
thirteen, Barbara Brown eleven, each an
etched apron.  Sadie Wilmot a wreath
of hair, aged eleven; bouquet of 
flowers framed, Annie Mary Farr aged twelve, Mot-
toes in frames Ellen Lundell nine and Ada Eller-
beck twelve, globe of wax flowers and plush key
rack Tessie Williams six years old, vase of wax
flowers Ada Davis nine, vase of wool flowers
Jennie Davis eight, lovely embroidered toilet set
red plush Etta Keeting eleven, two cloth and
plush embroidered tidies Elsie Burrows ten,
crochet tidy Julia Holst 12, crochet mats and
tidy Belle Baker thirteen, canvas and creton tidy,
Clara Groesbeck eleven Louie Groosebeck
eight; Canvas and ribbon tidy Cathie Dougal
eight; sideboard scarf in silk etching, Clara and
Louie Groesbeck; Sateen and creton bag, Josie
Batie 12; wool mats, Susannah Rich eleven; do.
Libbie Rich nine; crochet woolen skirt, Julia
Howe nine; doll in pink satin and lace bonnet,
dressed by Ada Farmer eleven; do. in pink muslin
dress and satin bonnet Katie Dwyer ten; do. pink
muslin dress and lace cap by Maggie Brown;
book mark by Elvira Lundell; a doll's chair made
and painted by Master Murvin W. Davis twelve;
patch work, hand sewing nine blocks, May Lewis
eight; and four large ones by her twin sister, Mabel
Lewis; bottle of cherries tumbler of jelly and
sponge cake by Stella Jacobs nine; a doll's bed-
stead dressed complete, bed-tick, sheets, pillows,
do. slips, spread and pillow-shams made of seventy-
two pieces of embroidery, by Gwendoline Lewis.
     After the meeting the counselors and invited
guests accompanied the President, Mrs. Howe, to
her residence where the most delicious refresh-
ments were served in a tasteful manner, and after
partaking the ladies were invited to the parlor to
join in social conversation; finally by common
consent, a hymn was sung, “O my Father” etc.,
being chosen as appropriate and prayer was offered
by Sister Zina D. H. Young; brief remarks were
made by the sisters who seemed specially blest
with the Holy Spirit; after an hour or two spent 
in sweet communion, a benediction was pro-
nounced by Sister Horne, and the company dis-
persed feeling they had been mutually blest in
thus assembling, and in blessing Sister Howe who
had so kindly given them this pleasant interview
in her beautiful and peaceful home.


