	HELEN HUNT.


[Column 1]	
	LOUIE.
	I loved her as a brother might love a sister—
for such indeed she seemed—and in her eyes I
was almost as a brother.
	I had known her from childhood, and in our 
hearts there dwelt a mutual sympathy.  There was
an affinity between us, enabling each to realize the
other’s feelings, and, though a gulf of years di-
vided us, it was spanned by an arch of congenial
thought and emotion.

[Column 2]
	She used to say she “liked” me, because I never
treated her as a child. I could not have done so,
had I desired; she was more than a child, even in
her childhood. It was an intelligent spirit that 
looked out upon the world through the dear, beauti
ful eyes now closed in death.
	She was as good as she was beautiful. Amiable
in disposition, affectionate, with a heart full of
sympathy for the sorrows of others, and a spirit
of sublime self-sacrifice for those she loved, she
was gifted with a magnetic charm, a power of at-
traction, that drew all souls in her direction.
	Naturally confiding, to those for whom she
cherished friendship or affection—though silent
and secretive when need be, and to many reti-
cent at all times—she inspired and drew forth the
confidence of others.
	Her soul was sensitive and refined. She was a
natural lover of the good, the true and the beauti-
ful. Fond of music, poetry, and painting, and
talented withal, she became their ardent devotee,
and, from the treasury of her heart and mind,
brought forth gems of melody and beauty. Her
voice in song was like the music of murmuring
waters, sinking or swelling in its deep tenderness,
like the rise and fall of a gentle billow.
	She was a child of faith, a daughter of religion.
Her aspirations were spiritual. Her dreams were
sparks of prophecy from the flaming forge of in-
spiration.
	Her’s was the poet’s temperament; her’s like-
wise the poet’s dual doom—the power to feel in-
tensely, joy or sorrow, pleasure or pain.
	There are souls so sensitive, so refined, so deli-
cately organized, that to them an unkind word is
equal to a blow; the prick of a pin almost equiva-
lent to a dagger-thrust. Such souls seldom linger
long in mortality; the tension is too great; though
the delicate strings, while they last, upon these
human harps, oft fill the world with immortal
harmony. Save God give added strength, they
cannot long endure the rough sweep of the world’s
harsh hand; tuneless and shattered they perish,
passing early to that spiritual life, that higher
sphere, for which they seem best fitted and de-
signed.
	It is always sad when a young life dies. The
death of the aged is as the setting sun, the day’s
heat and toil being over, and weary nature sighing
for rest; or, as the falling of the tree which has
borne its last fruit, put forth its final blossom, and
whose withered, sapless trunk is already crumb-
ling to decay. But when a youthful spirit takes
its flight, it seems more like the sun’s eclipse, ere
reaching the zenith of its years; or like the prema-
ture blighting of the tree, just budding forth in
strength and beauty.
	This is the mortal view.  But a higher than man
is the Judge. We can not doubt His wisdom,
question His mercy, or sit in judgment upon His
justice. Nor, till we rise above the clouds that
overhang us here, and reach the summit of the
bright hereafter, can we see clearly the mysteries
now hidden from our view. Some time we shall
know all.

	“But not to-day. Then be content, poor heart,
	God’s plans, like lillies, pure and white unfold,
	We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
	Time will reveal the calyxes of gold.”

	Louie, let us believe, had finished her life—had
fulfilled her mortal mission. She suffered much,
and had much of joy, in the few, brief years allotted
her; and perchance, by reason of her sensitive na-
ture, her power and capacity to feel, was able
to acquire, in a limited period, what many might
linger long years to obtain. Time and experience
are not synonyms.

	—“A thought—
A slumbering thought is capable of years,
And curdles a long life into one hour.”
	
“We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths;
In feelings, not in figures on a dial.”
[Column 3]
	Let us hope she gained that experience—the
cream of which comes by suffering—the education
for which she left her eternal home, to learn,
in life’s mortal school, lessons not to be learned
elsewhere.
	Farewell, Louie! That all is well with thee, no
one will doubt who knew thee. God called thee
home; thy soul is in His keeping; thy future in
the hands of Him who “doeth all things well.”
	May we meet before the Father’s throne, to re-
new, in realms of rest and happiness, the tender
ties that bound us together here, and linked in
chain imperishable our immortal spirits, ere Time’s
billow rolled upon the ocean of Eternity, or our
little lives were launched forth like bubbles that
gleam and burst upon the bosom of the wave.
	A brother’s hand lays this brief tribute upon
thy bier.						   O. F. W.


