THE OLD FOLKS EXCURSION.
	
	The bulwark of the Latter-day kingdom. The
veterans of republicanism had tendered to them 
a treat long to be remembered, which all partici-
pated in, with joyful hearts. Nineteen cars trans-
ported from Salt Lake City as good a lot of peo-
ple as can be found anywhere on the earth. The
weather was favorable, no high wind to break the
enjoyment, no accident to mar the peace of anyone.
The iron horse labored hard to move its precious
load to the city of enjoyment, Ogden, where
teams were in readiness to take all participators,
to the park.  The sprinkling carts had laid the
dust; all was fresh and green. Tables were spread,
laden with earth’s bounties; a rich feast for all.
The Relief Society of the different Wards in
that city had their tents and stoves arranged to


supply each table, and their corps of young ladies
attentive, courteous and obliging to those at table,
with willing hearts and smiling faces. Bless their
willingness to make the aged happy, and bless the
older sisters who took their part in the heat of the
day to add to the comfort of the aged in their en-
joyment. When all parties were supplied at the
table with plenty to eat and drink, an invitation
was extended to those 70 to 80 and 90 to go into
the Pavilion. The singers gave joy to the hearts
of all with their soul inspiring music like the rip-
pling streams of rivulets. Thanks to their kind
exertions to brighten and smooth the rugged
paths of declining years. The Pavilion’s stand
was honored with the noble, generous and true
men of God, who ever seek the happiness of those
in advanced years, from whose lips fell words of
inspiration, that gave new impetus to age, and
cheered the tottering step and strengthened the
feeble limbs. May blessings rest upon their labors
of love, and as they have honored their predeces-
sors so may they be honored.
	A variety of presents were given to the oldest
ones, such as easy chairs, hats, canes, dress pat-
terns, collars, brooches and other articles. May
the donors never want in basket or in store. May
the blessings of safety rest upon the train that
carried those precious ones.  May that engine re-
tain its propelling force and perform its mission
to carry souls in safety. While seated in the train
going north, cake and lemonade was passed around.
Returning, candy, lemonade and cake was passed
around in plenty for all, and, in fact, there was
nothing wanting to make the excursionists happy,
and their enjoyment complete. Thanks to the
Old Folk’s Committee, the Governor of Utah, and
all who took part in making the old folks feel well
and happy. And may there be many returns of
the days of such jubilees to our worthies who
have borne the heat and burden of the day—our
aged fathers and mothers.
	A partaker of Salt Lake City Ogden's do-
nated bounties. Synopsis.


