WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
			WEBER STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Weber Stake of Zion was held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Thursday, June 16th,
1887. uuder the direction of President Jane S.
[column 2]
Richards. After singing, prayer was offered.
by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff, and the minutes of
the previous conference were read and accepted.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards said she was very
much pleased to see so goodly a number
present, for she felt the Spirit of God was here
to-day, and would be richly given to all who
sought for it through faith and prayer. Was
delighted to have Sister Zina D. H. Young
and Sister Harriet Snow, President of R. S. Box
Elder Co. with us again; also highly grati-
fied to have Sister Herrick with us again after
her long absence from our midst, and trusted
that all would accept and appreciate the good
counsel these sisters may impart.
	Sister Janette Bingham felt to thank the
Lord for all good, and to live only for the up-
building of His Kingdom here on earth. If
we had met to-day to be filled with His Spirit
our prayers would be surely answered.
	Prest. L. W. Shurtliff felt to rejoice in meet-
ing with the sisters always, and was truly proud
of the great and good works which they are
constantly achieving. Referred to some inter-
esting remarks which he heard Apostle F. D.
Richards make in regard to the sisters visiting
those who are cold and indifferent as punctually
as those who are sick, for by so doing untold
good would be accomplished. Prayed God’s
blessings to rest upon all.
	Sister Zina D. Young asked an interest in
the faith and prayers of all present. Spoke of
the Prophet Joseph Smith and some of his
grand and glorious teachings to the sisters in
the early scenes of the Church. Said, “As he
Government has now disfranchised us we can
speak with perfect freedom on the pure and
holy principles of the Gospel.” Gave a pleas-
ing account of her attendance at the reunion of
President Heber C. Kimball’s family. Felt
that these days are the best we have yet seen
on earth, and if we could banish from our
midst the spirit of fault-finding we would then
know perfect happiness, and more nearly be-
come as the Son of Man. Prayed that the
teachers might continually be filled with the
Spirit of God, and speak words of wisdom to
all whom they might visit.
	Elder D. H. Peery said the time was when
he firmly believed the teachings and teachers
of this Church were all wrong, but through
the faith and long-suffering of his wife, all
these ideas were changed. Knew the hearts
of womankind, as a rule, are purer and nearer
God than are those of men. “Through our
union only will all malice be overcome, and
through our prayers would we attain unbounded
success.” Spoke of the great danger of our
sons and daughters marrying those not of our
faith. “If we are indifferent to and rebellious
against those things which we know God has
revealed, He will surely bring us low and hum-
ble us to do-His will.”
Sister Harriet Snow, Stake President of Box
Elder County Relief Society, was pleased to
meet her sisters in this county, but felt her ina-
bility in speaking to them. Desired to be
humble, meek and pure before God, so as to
discern the whisperings of the still small voice,
and thus be enabled to overcome fear and
the many trials we are called to pass through.
Prayed for the spirit of peace and union to be
with all the societies in every county and ward
in this land.
	Sister Sarah Herrick was very thankful to
again be associated with her sisters. Knew we
could not half appreciate the society and sym-
pathy of our brethren and sisters until we are
deprived for a time of the same. Desired to
live righteously before the Lord, and thereby
gain His approval and blessings.
	Elder Maycock felt that an individual inter-
est should be taken in the different organiza-
tions of this Church, and a spirit of love and
charity be cultivated in our midst. Prayed
God’s blessings to rest upon all the sisters in
ich abundance, and to give them renewed


[Column 1]
strength and energy in their various labors.
	Prayer was offered by Elder Saunders, and
meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock p.m.
	2 o’clock p.m.  Meeting came to order by
singing, “How firm a foundation.” Prayer by
Bishop R. McQuarry.   Singing, “There’s, a
feast of fat things.”
	Elder Joseph Stanford being requested to
make a few remarks, felt to respond willingly
in this as well as all other calls, for in so doing 
could he obtain the Spirit and blessings of
God.  Referred to the remarks of Sister Zina
Young and others, and of the good that must
follow if their instructions were only treasured
up and carried out.  Admonished the sisters
to speak all good of one another, and to seek to
build each other up by faith and good works.
	Sisters Widerborg and Bickington bore faith-
ful testimonies to the truth of the Gospel, and
desired that all the sisters might live to be
worthy of the greatest praise and honor from
their sons and daughters, and to teach them
every principle of the Gospel in all purity, by
observing the same in our daily lives.
	Sisters Randall and Yearsley felt determined
to follow in the footsteps of righteousness un-
til the end should come, and seemed greatly 
filled with the Spirit of God, and the gifts 
and blessings He so kindly bestows.
	Coun. Hattie C. Brown always enjoyed meet-
ing with the Saints of God, and was proud
that she had a standing with them in His
kingdom; felt to praise the Lord for the many
gifts and blessings He bestows upon us.
	Sister Harriet Snow said she had been a
member of this Church for more than forty
years, and had never yet doubted one principle 
of this, the everlasting Gospel, but felt stronger 
and more determined to live them than ever
before. Advised the mothers to set good ex-
amples in their homes as well as in their socie-
ties.  Said that in the county over which she
presided there was one branch of Lamanites,
which was in a prosperous condition,  The sis-
ters of that branch were doing all in their
power to learn the principles of cleanliness and 
industry, as well as those pertaining to the Gos-
pel.  Prayed God to bless us inasmuch as we
live according to His teachings.
	Sister Zina Young read a revelation given
through Joseph the Seer, in Harmony, Susque-
hannah Co., Pennsylvania, July, 1830, which
was both interesting and instructive.  Said if
nothing more than the words contained therein
had been heard to-day, there was an abundance
to be remembered and carried out.  Advised
the mothers to read the Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants often, and live accord-
ing to their teachings.  Quoted the saying of
the Prophet Joseph’s: “Don’t climb on to the
extreme branches of the tree, for there is dan-
ger of falling.  Cling close to the trunk.”
Thought it would just as appropriately apply
to any one of us to-day.  Thanked the sisters
for their liberal donations to the Hospital, and
admonished the sisters to live purely, so that
they could officiate in the ordinance of washing
and anointing the sick, and to labor earnestly
with the young to instill the principles of the
Gospel in their hearts in all purity, so they will
not stray away from the fold.
	Prest. J. S. Richards said Sister Eliza R.
Snow Smith sent her love and blessing to all
the sisters in this county, and hoped to enjoy
their society in conference again.  Then Sister
Richards asked if the sisters all felt to sustain
Sister   Eliza R.   Snow   Smith, as     their
President	to      carry     out   all        her
teachings and put in practice her instruc-
tions and exercise our faith, and that we may
have her with us again as we have had many
times in the past, and to sustain her, also, as
the President of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
in all the world.  The vote was unanimous.
[Column 2]
After singing and prayer, conference adjourned
for three months.
				MATTIE A. CANNON
					Sec. of Weber Stake

