			RIVERDALE
	The Young Ladies’ Quarterly Meeting was
held at the residence of Sister Martha Bingham,
May 19th, 1887, there being a large number
present.  Prest. Russell conducted the meeting,
which was opened by singing.  Prayer was
offered by Sister Bybee, and singing again.
After the reading and approval of the minutes,
an interesting programme was rendered.  The
manuscript paper, “The Young Ladies’ Instruc-
tor,” edited by Julia Child, was read.    Our
paper still continues to show a marked improve-
ment by the articles contributed for it.   Lizzie
Stimpson and Annie Stratton sang a song well
worthy of notice; next a dialogue by five mem-
bers, entitled, “Woman’s Mission.”
Prest. Russell was pleased with the pro-
gramme, and encouraged the sisters in respond-
ing when called upon.
	Sister Stanford said she had listened with
interest to the programme. “The Lord will bless
the young sisters in their endeavors to do good.
We come here to improve, and should heed the
counsel of those who are placed over us.  It
seems to be a warfare sometimes to do just as
we should do, and as the Lord would have us
do; we often want to go our own way.  We will
comprehend this more as we get older.  The
more family we have the more necessity we see
in trying to lives of righteousness.  If we had
obeyed the good counsel given to us years ago,
in regard to home industry, we would to-day
have been more independent than we are; but
we must all learn these things by experience.
I feel that the Lord is helping us, and with all
our imperfections we are the most favored peo-
ple upon the earth, and are greatly blessed by
Him.   I often think though we are worldly
poor, we are rich in the blessings of the Al-
mighty.  Urged the sisters to use a good influ-
ence and heed the instructions of mothers and
teachers, and sustain their President, and have
love in their hearts for each other.
	Sister J. S. Richards thought that we had all
come to meeting to have our minds refreshed up-
on the principles of our religion. Had enjoyed
the exercises and hearing the testimonies of the
sisters. “We cannot be happy if we have dis-
order and disunion in our midst, for we all have
failings, but we must overlook them in each
other, and look at the good qualities we possess.
Although we claim to have the Spirit of the
Lord with us, we are sometimes led astray and
we do wrong; but we must forgive and we will
be forgiven.  If we wish to be true Latter-day
Saints we must believe all the principles of our
religion, and be prayerful, so that we can claim
the blessings of the Lord.  We should try to
set good examples before our children, and help
them along, for they will have many trials and
temptations to pass through.  If we see ex-
amples that are not good we must not follow
them.   When we have the light of the Holy
Spirit to guide us we feel happy; we only need
to put our trust in the Lord and we will have
no fear.   We must improve step by step each
day that we live, and press onward.”
Sister Monch had enjoyed a good spirit in
the meeting.   Was pleased with the exercises,
and with the paper in particular, and compli-
mented the sisters on what had been written.
We should try to improve all the time in writ-
ing, and also in reading.   We should not seek
improvement from books alone, but call upon
the Lord to aid us with His Spirit.” Thought
the sisters could wield a good influence in so-
ciety, and should ask God to help them to do
so, and the young ladies should hold a good in-
fluence over the young men, for there are a
great many ways in which young men are
tempted to go astray, and the influence of a 
[Column 3]
young lady may do a great deal of good. “If
we ask the Lord to bless us in our afflictions
He will send comfort to our hearts.  We must
expect to go onward and improve our time
while we are here, and try to fill the mission
that we have on this earth acceptably before
the Lord.”
Sister Shreeves said, “There are a great many
temptations placed before the young, and the
young ladies are apt to be led astray by out-
siders, and they will sometimes unite in mar-
riage with those who are not of our faith, and
the result is they will lose the influence of the
priesthood and the spirit of their religion, and
in afflictions they realize their true position, for
they cannot expect the blessings and comfort
they would receive in listening to counsel and
marrying those in the faith.   Our young ladies
should be very careful whom they select as a
husband, and choose one whom they can claim
both in this life and the life to come. We
must be humble and prayerful, and obey the
commands of God, so that when trials come
upon us we can call upon Him to bless us and
we will be comforted.  It is necessary for us
all to have a testimony for ourselves, and
then we will be more able to withstand the
trials of life.”
Bro. Thompson said he could see that the
sisters are doing a good work.    We should
all have a desire to see this work press on-
ward; we should improve every opportunity
that we have to speak.
	Sister Martha Bingham prayed for the Spirit
of the Lord to assist all in doing good and
trying to overcome evil and be united in all
things.
	Coun. Julia Child hoped we would put in-
to practice the good instructions that we had
received, and prayed that the Lord would
bless us in whatever we attempt to do.
	Coun. Jennette Parker felt thankful to God
for His blessings day by day, and Eliza W.
and Sarepta Child each bore testimony to the
truth of this work, and hoped we would profit
by what had been said, and strive to fulfill our
respective callings appropriately.
	Nellie Child bore her testimony, after which
Prest. Russell made some closing remarks, in
which she urged all to practice what we had
heard, “for it is not the amount that we hear
that will benefit us, it is the amount that we
practice.” Realized a great responsibility rest-
ing upon her as president, but she placed her
dependence in the Lord.   Thought the Spirit
of the Lord had been in our midst, although
Satan was trying to destroy our good works.
	Sister Dye reported the Primary Association,
as being in a fair and prosperous condition.
Singing, “Lord, dismiss us,” etc.   Benediction
by Maria Russell.
