LET US WORSHIP GOD.

Let us worship God on the mountains,
	In the valley, on the hill,
Where the wild free harps of nature
	With the grandest music thrill,
Let us worship Him with singing,
	And with the voice of prayer,
And, as He is ever present,
	Let us worship everywhere.

Let us worship God in the winter,
	When the wild winds seek our path,
And we feel the awful presence
	Of the Storm-King in his wrath,
Let us calmly wait nor suffer
	Our fears to overwhelm
The child-like trust that crieth,
	"Our Father's at the helm."

Let us worship God in the spring-time,
	When the beautiful is born,
And we hear the rapturous singing
	Or the birds in the early morn, 
Let us worship Him with gladness,
	Who out of the wintry strife
Hath wrought with unseen fingers,
	Such miracles of life.

Let us worship God in the summer,
	When the earth is in her prime,
When winds, and the wandering breezes 
	Have a soft eolian chime,
Let us worship Him with fervor
	In the forest aisles and bowers,
Where the angels talk with mortals
	Through their alphabet of flowers.

Let us worship God in the autumn.
	When the sighing breezes come,
And, like laborers in His vineyard,
	Sing with joy the "harvest home,"
In all times and in all seasons,
	Through labor and in prayer,
Let us worship God, the Father,
And praise Him everywhere.
							BELLE BUSH.
Belvidere Seminary, Belvidere, N. J.


[column 1]
		THE IDOL OF TO-DAY.
	“Moreover," the Lord saith, “because the
daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with
stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking
and mincing as they go. 	*      *      *      *		
Therefore, the Lord will smite with a scab the
crown of the head of the daughters of Zion,
and the Lord will discover their secret parts,
	In that day the Lord will take away the
bravery of their tinkling ornaments, the chains
and the bracelets and the mufflers,
	The bonnets and the ornaments of the legs,
and the head-bands, and the tablets and the
earrings.
	The rings    *     *      *	 *      *	 the
changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles,
and the wimples, and the crisping pins,
	The glasses, and the fine linen,and the hoods
and the vails.
	And it shall come to pass that instead of
sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of
a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair
baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding
of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.”
Isaiah, chapter III, verses xvi-xxiv.	
	In choosing this subject for present reflection,
and writing, I do not do so cynically. Too
well I realize the condition of the minds of the
ladies of the present day. They are weak or
foolish enough to think (and sometimes think

[column 2]

aloud) that any one who dares oppose, in word
or act, the tide of fashion, is selfish and con-
servative, and every thought expressed against
their manner of dressing, is an individual and
personal attack. I wish to state that in my
remarks upon this subject, I am neither per-
sonal nor biased against those who choose to
“follow fashion.” Neither am I selfishly de-
fending my own indifference to the dictates of
the fickle goddess. I am unselfishly and cau-
didly considering the matter in as clear and
impartial a light as ray unbiased mind can
throw upon it.
	I claim that I am not conservative. Too
gladly would I behold the progress of enlight-
enment, the advancement of my sex from the
weakness and ignorance of the past. I have
felt how heavily the chains of Eve have hung
upon woman. How often have I prayed for
the redemption of my sex from the false ideas
and aims of the past! How happy was I, when
a dreaming, aspiring girl; to think that I was
born in an age when woman would rise above
the dead level of mediocrity to a higher un-
derstanding and practise of life! I have grown
to maturer and more observant woman-
hood, and among the lost ideals of human
greatness and goodness, among the vanished
dreams of trusting girlhood, is this one. I be-
lieve that women are more enslaved to-day
than ever before, by fetters of their own mak-
ing.
	Converse with the majority of women upon
the subject of the higher education of our sex,
and what is the response? They have no time to
study. Suggest to them to teach their little ones
at home and not send them to school among
rougher natures while so young and plastic.
They have neither knowledge, time, inclination
nor strength. The truth is, their manner of
dressing and living is injurious to the health,
and arbitrary Fashion demands all their leisure
—she will accept no half-hearted worship. We
will know that the object in which we most de-
light, that which requires our greatest atten-
tion and best time, that which we cultivate
with the most persevering assiduity, becomes
also the absorbing element of life; in short,
deny it as we may, it becomes the object on
which we set our hearts. How can a woman,
devoted to fashion, fancy work and fashionable
society, find time to study higher things, or to
cultivate herself to a higher intellectual life?
God has given but twenty-four hours in each
day both to the fashionable and the unfashion-
able, and if that time be devoted to one thing
it cannot be to another. True, we divide our
time between various pursuits, but one side or
the other must preponderate, and our minds
will, of necessity, run in the preponderating
channel.
	The Utopian dream, cherished by many no-
ble minds that woman shall rise to an equality
with man, seems little likely of realization
while the feverish race after this stern goddess
continues at its present heat.
	Why should we depend upon the admiration
of the other sex, or even that of our own, for
our soul’s happiness? Are there not as noble
aims and as high paths for us to tread? Are
there not as great things as thorough knowl-
edge required of us for eternal exaltation as of
our brethren? Oh, this awful ignorance! How
I could weep as I reflect upon it! Do women
sincerely believe that their minds were created
merely to remain as infants in knowledge,while
men march on ahead of them in a constant pro-

[column 3]

gression? Even the reading of a newspaper or
literary magazine does not constitute much
mental food. How very, very few know any-
thing at all about where the paths of Intellect
really lead! Oh, no, they have no time to
learn! And yet speak to them upon our future
destiny and they are all wending their way, as
fast as their sands of time will take them, to
that holy city, whose light and glory is the
glory of intelligence.
	"Art is long and time is fleeting.” Too short
is this life for the accomplishment of too much
good or the acquirement of too much knowl-
ekge; but the little life allotted us is all spent
in living it and trying to look pretty and at-
tracting the love and admiration (?) of the
other sex. Their admiration! Would not their
admiration for something higher and better
be more acceptable to a thoughtful and noble
woman? And after all, man is but mortal and
subject to err, and if a woman must devote her
time and soul to please his eye in order to win
his esteem, that esteem is too hard earned for
anything so trival and fleeting. We say trivial
for the object, a handsome costume, is surely a
poor thing to admire compared with a high,
beautiful, immortal soul, and fleeting,—ah, sis-
ters, you who depend upon fashion to hold for
you the love of husband or lover will discover
soon enough how transient such love can be!
	God’s arm is the arm to lean upon, and the
blessing and power of heaven cannot be called
down by a worship of Mammon, nor the fash-
ions of the world. We cannot serve two mas-
ters and receive the approval of both. God
requires a single eye of devotion unto Him,
and though we may claim that we do not place
our hearts upon the vain things of earth, I sin-
cerely believe that we shall be judged more by
our acts than our words. Ours is a religion of
practise and reality more than abstract theory.
Many will say that our Heavenly Father is too
great to take note of so small a thing as fash-
ion; that He only sees our hearts and judges
us by our good intentions. Yet He is not too
great to count the hairs upon our heads and
has he not sealed his stamp of disapprobation
upon Fashion by the words quoted from Isaiah
in the opening of this article? Truly, He
judges the heart and many of us will be sur-
prised to find how much we had misunderstood
ourselves. I have seen in a chart of the up-
ward and downward steps of life, that good in-
tentions form a very prominent part of the
downward ladder.
	How can the women of this people and of
the present dispensation, with all their profess-
ions of godliness, wink at and encourage these
things when such sure and dire destruction is
threatened against the daughters of Zion. My
sisters, we are too well fulfilling the one part of
Isaiah’s prophecy, and God will as surely ful-
fill his part, unless we repent. Especially
absurd and almost criminal does this en-
couragement seem in those who are placed to
guide the footsteps of the young; and very
censurable are also those of the other sex who
encourage by praise and flattery this gaudy,
silly life-work.
	Aside from this, how is beauty—the beauty
which God created—sacrificed, as it were, to
Moloch! What does the Lord mean by a
stomacher but the cruel corset, that has caused
so much deformity, ill-health, misery and less-
ening of life? Wear it loose? This is not
generally done; the presence of the corset
forms too strong a temptation to wear it tight


[Column 1]
﻿or at least too snug to be healthful and if worn
loose it is of little use except, as some say, “to
support the back.” Oh nonsense! Does any
one suppose for a moment that Eve was sup-
ported by bones and steels? And that outrage
to all modesty and beauty, that disgusting de-
formity of the human form and dishonor to
God’s handiwork and ourselves—the bustle!
How must angels frown and demons laugh to
see our sisters, the daughters of Zion! with
that thing on to mock at and deform the shape
that God has made!
	Then that silly, ignorant fashion, bangs!
Did God give us a seat of intelligence to cover
up? “Let your light shine!” But we are
ashamed of the little light we do possess!
Ashamed of the small intelligence we do enjoy
aud so must animalize ourselves by concealing
the only intelligent part of our physical being!
Am I cynical? Are my words too strong tobe polite? Too harsh to bear out the friendly,
cordial liberty to think and act “as you please,”
the unbiased candor professed in the opening of
this article? No! Every word is prompted by
love and sincerity! But it makes my heart
ache to see the blind devotedness of my sisters
to so unworthy an idol! I am grieved as I
think upon the errors that lead so many
women astray. I feel a desire, with an inten-
sity which I cannot fully express, to point out
a better path, to show clearly to their minds
and hearts that there is a better, a brighter
and a nobler life-path—a path wherein are
germs of much more happiness and greatness
—a proposition which they will not believe.
And I feel like a “lone watcher on the tower,”
whose feeble voice cannot be heard by the
slumbering multitude.
	Oh, that God would grant us power to so
live as to merit a higher desting on earth, and
so secure a corresponding destiny in heavenl
Who can say that our intellectual acquire-
ments are equal to man’s? And will we not
be correspondingly inferior in the hereafter, un-
less we make a courageous attack upon our
present system and overcome folly and ignor-
ance with wisdom and intelligence? And what
woman with one spark of nobleness or ambi-
tion in her heart would be content to contem-
plate eternal inferiority to her sex!
	Where lies this trouble? There has been a
cry for equal opportunities and equal rights.
Those who have rights have also duties, and
“there’s the rub!” I claim that the trouble lies
with the women themselves. To-day their
aims are no higher than just where they stand.
How many a good, intelligent, patient woman
who has devoted her highest efforts to emanci-
pate her sex from political and mental slavery
has had her courage dampened and her hands
tied by the indifference, inappreciation and in-
capacity of  them for whose good she was earn-
estly working! I claim that Fashion is to
blame! Of course, neatness, cleanliness, pur-
ity, inward as well as outward, are a positive
duty. Even a culture of the ideal beauties of
life are not only proper, but necessary—the
highest art and beauty may be studied to ad-
vantage—but not that which emulates pride
and deforms and injures us and makes us
haughty and takes so much of our time that
our minds become dwarfed and narrow, and
unprogressive; not that false beauty that rend-
ers our hearts selfish and unfruitful in the
higher aims of life and indifferent to the ac-
complishment of good and the best ends for
which our beings were intended!
	This rage for fashion is to-day, and has been
for many years a life pursuit, a constant cul-
ture, a positive worship, on whose shrine has
been sacrificed many a noble life. A worship
wafted from the atheist shores France to those
of America and welcomed with joy and adora-
tion by our own sisters, whose aims should have
risen to higher realms with the revelations of
God that re-established the bride of Christ

[Column 2]
upon the earth, for He will not be satisfied
with the half-hearted worship of the present
day.
					RUBY LAMONT.
			Glenwood, Utah, June 27, 1887.


