QUEEN MARY AND HOLYROOD.
	High up on a ledge, overlooking the dark,
rippling waters of St. Margaret’s Loch, and in
view of the rolling waters of the Forth and
the superb city of Edinburgh, stands the
solemn ruins of St. Anthony’s Chapel, slowly
crumbling away, an ancient edifice once ten-
anted some three centuries ago by Father Ber-
tram—the Monk of St. Anthony—the last her-
mit of Salisbury crags. The cell he occupied
was situated close beside the west wall of the
small chapel, but the foundations of the former
being a few feet lower than that of the latter,
the natural rock formed one of its walls and
gave to it the appearance of being hewn out of
solid stone. It consisted of only one apartment,
sixteen feet long by twelve broad and eight
feet in height and was altogether a hovel of the
meanest description. The furniture consisted
of a bench of dry turf, which served the dou-
ble purpose of a seat and bed, and reached on
one side of the cell from the hearth to the door.
In one corner was a cupboard in the wall, and
above the fireplace in the corner
opposite was a small oven of stone used
for cooking his victuals and baking his bread.
These together with two large stones covered
with turf for his visitors to sit upon, constituted
the tout ensemble of the interior of his lonely
abode.
	This melancholy remnant of bygone ages
overlooks the palace of Holyrood, a place preg-
nant with thrilling memories of the past as be-
ing associated with the history of Mary Queen of
Scots! Ah, if these dumb walls could speak; if these
everlasting hills which embrace this structure in

[Column 2]
their rocky arms could but re-echo the voices
of the past, what a history they could tell in-
dependent of what is already recorded and
handed down to each succeeding generation!
These are the two objects of attraction, con-
nected with the life and times of Queen Mary
to the sight-seer and to the most casual observ-
er, also to anyone who enters the city from the
east by the railroad, and gray and sombre do
they appear. Curious individuals pry into the
crumbling creviced walls and across the grass
grown floor of the ecclesiastical ruin, thinking
perchance to find some relic of monkish order
or to see some sign indicative of former occu-
pancy; whilst others equally as curious strain
their optics, endeavoring to catch a glimpse of
the once bright crimson stain of ill-starred
Rizzie’s blood on the floor of Holyrood, and
some do even profess to see it yet!
	Three hundred years have fled since took
place the execution of Mary Queen of Scotts.
Historic memories are proverbially short, and
in the crush and buzz of daily life little room
is left for contemplation of the “mighty dead.”
Queen Mary’s life and death were so fateful,
so streaked with romance, pathos and tragedy,
that he would be a prosaic Scotsman indeed,
who did not find stirring within him mingled
feelings of sorrow and admiration.
	With the learned controversies regarding
Queen Mary the average reader can have little
to do. It is possible to suspend judgement in
regard to the long controversy which has waged
round the hapless Queen, without losing interest
in her career. There may be some truth in the
political reasons advanced for the jealousy
shown by Elizabeth towards Mary, but not even
the rudeness of the time, nor a belief in Mary’s
badness could justify the Queen of England
in displaying conduct which would disgrace
even a Lady Macbeth. Whatever historians
may think of the ill-fated Queen’s life there
can be but one opinion regarding the simple
and touching heroism of her death. None but
a woman gifted beyond the average, could have
acquitted herself with Mary’s fortitude
on the day of the execution. “I forgive you,” she
said to her executioner,  for now I hope you
shall end all my troubles.” On the scaffold
Mary bade her domestics adieu, smiling and
waving her hand. They stepped back from
the scaffold as the Queen repeated on her knees
the first lines of the psalm—In thee, O Lord,
have I put my trust.” Blindfolded, Mary felt
for the block, muttering as she stretched out
her once admired neck, “In thee O Lord, do I
put my trust, let me never be ashamed.” The
blow was then struck, which brought to a close
a life, which in spite of its frailties, will con-
tinue to touch through all time the hearts of
Scotsmen. It may suit the jaundiced genius of
Froude to depict Mary as a monster of iniquity,
but ordinary people will prefer to admire the
Scottish Queen, while the memory of Elizabeth
will forever be black with the murder of a sis-
ter. 
