WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]﻿
THE MUNICIPAL FRANCHISE IN
		DENMARK.
	As might be expected from the similarity in
race, Denmark is the first European country
where the example set by England and Swe-
den in extending local franchises to women is
likely to be imitated. Mr. Frederick Bajer, as
our readers are already aware, brought for-
ward in the Danish Folkething a proposal that
tax-paying women should have the municipal
franchise in Copenhagen. This was passed by
a majority, but the motion was lost in the Up-
per House, and further action must therefore
postponed till next Session. The friends of
the movement in Denmark are now deliberat-
ing what form the motion shall assume.
	The law of municipal franchise in Copen-
hagen is very restricted, no man voting who
does not pay income-tax on 1,000 kronors, or
£55[-] and the proposal to extend the right to
women was part of a larger measure, in which
there were many clauses. One of these was to
extend the vote to men who are rate-paying
citizens of only 800 kronors value, who are at
present excluded. This proposal was so demo-
cratic as immediately to win the hearts of the
majority of the Folkething. Another clause
was to make the methods of voting easier. On
the 16th of March it became known that the
Minister of the Interior was well disposed to
the admission of women to the franchise, pro-
vided it was restricted, as the Icelandic Act of
1882 had been, to unmarried and widowed
women in an independent position in their own
households. On the 21st March the Folke-
thing passed the municipal vote for women by
51 supporters against 15 opponents- Then,
however, it was discovered that the Minister,
although he did not object to the part of the
Bill which had reference to women, did not ap-
prove of the whole; and “moreover,” he added,
“it was in his opinion disadvantageous to make
a local law applying only to Copenhagen, but
it would be wiser to make it a general law ap-
plicable to the whole of Denmark,” giving in
support of his views the example that had
been set in Iceland, where the same question
had been first raised locally (in the little town
of Akueyri) with want of success, but had
afterwards been carried when applied to the
whole island.
	When the Bill came forward in the Lands-
thing on March 29th, it was opposed by Pro-
fessor Matzen, who urged the House not to mix
up the general question of municipal rights
with that of women's suffrage, which was no
part of it, but which might be dealt with in
some general reform. His advice was taken,
and the women's municipal franchise was out-
voted by 38 votes against 14. Had the votes
of the two Houses been taken together, an ex-
amination of the numbers shows that the Bill
would have triumphed. There was no time to
take the question back to the Folkething, as
the Session was closed on April 1st.
	The point for discussion now is, whether the
measure shall be introduced next Session in the
same shape, or be extended so as to include all
the widowed or unmarried women in Denmark
who have hitherto been shut out by sex alone
from voting, but possess every other qualifica-
tion. If confined as before to Copenhagen,
only a very small number of women would be
enfranchised, as those who pay taxes on an in-
come of 1,000 kronors (£55), who alone would
be included, are only 3,800. On the other
hand, if the scheme is to embrace the whole of
Denmark, it must, to be successful, be actively
supported by women themselves. We cannot

[Column 2]
doubt that this will be the case. The Woman’s
Union has already held and is holding meet-
ings for the discussion of this question, and
there seems a very healthy state of activity in
their organisation, which is oonstantly increas-
ing the number of its members.—Englishwom-
an's Review.


