EDITOR EXPONENT:
	My Dear Sisters:—The subject I shall take
to treat upon, is one which I consider of vital
importance to every Latter-day Saint, or to
those who aspire to that important position, in
a temporal point of view, and to our temporal
welfare.  This important subject is the Word
of Wisdom.
     Now, dear sisters, don’t shrug your shoulders
or throw your heads with such a contemptuous
toss, although I don’t really think a constant
reader of the EXPONENT would ever indulge
any such feeling, for I think it inspires to a
better spirit and loftier ideas in regard to any
principle connected with our holy religion.
Notwithstanding the subject has been treated
upon so extensively, and scarcely a Sabbath
passes but some of our brethren speak in re-
gard to it; yet how many, yes very many, are
utterly indifferent to its teachings.  There is
not another revelation in the Book of Doc. and
Cov., that is written with such plainness and
simplicity, or as easy to be comprehended as
the one on the Word of Wisdom.  It is adapted


to the capacity of all, who may, or can be called
Latter-day Saints. With a promise that if we
give heed to those sayings we shall run, and
not weary, walk, and not faint, and the destroy-
ing angel shall pass us by as it did the children
of Israel, and not slay us. We are promised
great wisdom, and the proper exercise of this
wisdom, would prompt us to stop running or
walking, before we get weary or faint.
	We, as a people, believe according to the pre-
dictions of both ancient and modern prophets,
that a destroying scourge should sweep over the
earth in the last days. Therefore, the Lord
in His great mercy has given His Saints this
warning, that they, through giving heed to it,
should have great faith given them, that they
may have power to rebuke the power of the de-
stroyer through the exercise of the healing
ordinances.
	But where will our faith be, if we wilfully
neglect to obey these laws that are laid down
for our protection? I am very much afraid, if
we have any at all, it will be very weak. And
again in the commencement of the revelation
the Lord gives the reason for giving this warn-
ing. He says, “In consequence of evils and
designs which do and will exist in the minds of
designing men in the last days, I have warned
you by giving you this word of wisdom by
revelation, and it is connected with their tem-
poral salvation.” Now what evils and designs
will exist in the minds of these designing men,
will it not be to poison or introduce adulterated
compounds into the tea, coffee, tobacco, and
liquors of all kinds to such an extent that it
will corrupt our systems to such a degree that
we will be incapable of resisting disease? while
those who honor this law, their systems will be
pure and uncorrupted by any of these vile
compounds that brings wealth to the producer,
but death and destruction to the consumer. I
do hope and pray that the Saints of God may
have their eyes opened, to the necessity of obey-
ing these laws in their entirety, that they may
have faith to rebuke the power of the destroyer
in their households when the judgments of God
shall sweep the earth.
