WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CHANGES IN RELIGION.
That Missionary Bible and tract funds get
	ting Low, Secret Societies compared with the
		Church.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Very great changes in religion that have oc-
curred at a recent meeting of The Tract Society:
In New York it came out that not half the 
tracts published last year could be given away,
and that the expenses were much greater than
the receipts.  The Missionary Society has by
their reports a falling off in cash of about
one third since last fall.  The more astute Mis-
sionaries who do not want to lose their jobs have
changed their tactics from soliciting money to
convert the Jews, etc., to money for missions—
to the Mormons.  One or two women have
made good hauls out of the bigots of the
Western Reserve in Ohio, but the whole busi-
ness of priestcraft is getting stale all over the
country.  The people are in advance of the
priests in intelligence, therefore do not need
them.   Many priestly plans have been tried to
prop up their failing power.
	A large convention of clergymen, of nearly
all denominations, met in Chicago last fall, and
unanimously resolved to exclude from the
church all members of secret societies.  The
question is, which is most useful, the church 
membership or these societies?   What are their
fruits and relative cost and benefits?   There
lately resided in Corry a physician who paid
to the Methodist church regularly a considera-
ble sum, aggregating thousands.  A few years
before his death he paid a less sum to a benevo-
lent secret society. After his decease his widow
was called on to help pay a debt the church
incurred while he was a member and she
actually paid $5 from her scanty widow's mite.
The benevolent society to which they had paid
far less than to the church paid the widow over 
$2,000.
	There are many cases here and all over the
country where these secret benevolent societies
provide widows and orphans with a comfortable
support.  In no case have I known of any
branch of the church, Catholic or Protestant,
doing it.
	Sectarians say the church keeps up morality
and religion.   How?  The greatest and noblest
men of our age, Horace Greely, Lincoln, Sena-
tor Wade, Wendell Philips, Parker Pillsburg,
&c., were never connected with or guided by
any church; yet they had a morality and re-
ligion higher than church creed.   In Corry the
chief merchants, bankers and business men 
are not church members.   But no one can tell
who is a church member and who is not by
dealing with them on account of any special
integrity of character.  Some are good men
and women and some are not, just like non-
church members.   The divine Father of all
has stamped in our souls the love of justice.
Churches are only machinery to develope and 
bring it out.   They are not religion any more
than plows and hoes are agriculture.  They no
more make the love of religion than bakers or
meat dealers make the love of bread and meat,
or the sheep shearers make wool.  They don’t
raise the sheep they shear, or the lambs they
slaughter.  So many are living by the gospel
the work is overdone.   There is a superabun-
dance of so-called  shepherds and shearers.
Very few sheep with eligible fleeces are enter-
ing the folds.  The machinery of religion is
changing.   The beliefs of the dark ages, when
most of our orthodox theology came into being,
is for this reason not adapted to our age no
more than a child’s spelling book is adapted to
a Newton or the clothes of a babe are adapted
to manhood.  Religion is eternal; never was it 
so common.  Never had it so much care for
the unfortunate.   The secret benevolent socie-
ties are protecting the weak and helping the
[Column 2]
helpless. The best men and women in the
churches will help. The bigots should have
a corner by themselves, growing more and
more select and small as intelligence and re-
ligion increases.
						G. F. LEWIS.
	Corry, Penn., June 17, 1887.

	The article published above is from one liv-
ing outside in the world who knows the deceit
and hypocrisy of the professed Christian
Churches, but the Gospel as preached by the
Latter-day Saints is widely different from sec-
tarianism, and cannot in any sense be classed
with it.  As Latter-day Saints we should never
lose sight of the fact that our religion embraces
all truth whether found upon Christian or upon
heathen ground.   There have been great and
good men outside the churches in the world
and there have also been good and liberal-
minded men in the churches,but the best society
that was ever organized could not and does not
(we speak advisedly) do so much good as the
Gospel of Jesus Christ which is the power of
God unto salvation for all that believe and
obey the same and practise its precepts.
