THE CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION.

	The delegates appointed by the people to frame
a State Constitution for Utah met and organized
preparatory to taking hold of the work yesterday,
June 30 at 12 m., in the City Hall in this city.
The national flag was artistically draped over the
stand, and a white star fringed with gold and
decorated with stars and stripes immediately
above; on the white ground in red and blue “Utah
a State.” Large maps of Utah hung on either
side of the stand. After a temporary organization
and report by a committee on credentials, a per-
manent organization was formed and Hon. John
T. Caine was elected President by unanimous
vote of the convention. Hon. E. G. Wooley of
St. George was elected First Vice-President, and
Hon. J. T. Hammond of Cache Co. second Vice-
President, Heber M. Wells Secretary, and Robert
W. Sloan Assistant Secretary. The President,
Mr. Caine addressed the Convention first thanking
the assembly for the honor conferred upon him,
and expressing his appreciation of their confi-
dence, and the hope that he would be able to dis-
charge the duties of the position to their satisfac-
tion. Mr. Caine then stated the object of the Con-
vention and gave his views upon the position of
Utah and the needs of the people in regard to
representation in the general government, and
particularized the rights of the people and alluded
to the grievances and the disadvantages under
which the people of the territories labored as to
representation; his speech was calculated to
arouse ardent enthusiasm in the members, and
stimulate them to active efforts in order to ensure
success in the undertaking for which they had
come together from all points of the Territory. He
closed his speech with, “Let us be diligent, care-
ful, untiring and devoted to this cause, and our
reward will be in the shouts of “victory,” which
will greet the enrollment of Utah on the records
of the nation, and her star shining on the flag of
our country, gleaming with the loyalty and devo-
tion to this glorious republic of a freed grateful
and happy people.” During the speech Mr.
Caine was frequently greeted with cheers and
applause.  Heber S. Cutler was nominated as
messenger of the Convention and elected. There
was some discussion in regard to the oath being
administered to the delegates and officers of the
Convention, but it was finally put to vote and carried.
Hon. F. D. Richards offered the opening prayer.
An oath was then read which included all the pro-
visions of the Edmunds-Tucker test oath. Final-
ly after some considerable discussion in reference
to the oath, it was amended to conform to the reg-
istration oath adopted by the Utah Commission
and was then taken by the officers and members
of the Convention. A motion was then made by
John E. Booth of Provo, that the Constitution
adopted by a Constitutional Convention, April 27,
1882 and by the people, May 22, 1882, be taken as
a basis on which to work. The motion was
carried. Hon. James Sharp presented a resolu-
tion for the appointment of several committees to

[Column 2]
proceed with the work methodically and the reso-
lution was adopted. The convention then ad-
journed until to day, July 1st.
     There is an intense interest among the people
upon the subject of this convention. It may be
considered by some as a bold stroke under exist-
ing circumstances, but desperate needs require ex-
traordinary exertions and it is a time in the his-
tory of Utah that deserves the best efforts and the
richest thoughts of the best people and the wis-
est methods of the greatest statesmen to direct
the movements made by the people, to frame a
constitution that will admit Utah and bring about
prosperity and security of rights guaranteed by
the parent government. The people who have
settled these valleys deserve recognition and such
independence as statehood can give; under a 
territorial government the people are not free and
equal with those in the common sisterhood of
States, they have not the same general rights and
privileges, and it is not at all remarkable that
those born and reared here in this mountain re-
gion should partake of the strength and power, if
it may be so termed, of “the everlasting hills that
surround them,” and grow restless under such
treatment as they have been made to feel under
Territorial rule.
     In a state there is much greater opportuni-
ty for development, for the sort of government
under which the people of Utah have lived is only
a little removed above servitude; they have had
no voice in choosing the leading officers, but com-
pelled to accept such as were “sent unto them,”
and obliged to submit to that petty sort of tyranny
which to great minds is most unendurable. Utah
will hail with gladness the dawn of her liberation
from such an inferior position, and her people are
most certainly equal to the occasion of her as-
cending into the position she is so abundantly
able to fill, that of a free and sovereign state.


A SYNOPSIS of the Conference of the Relief
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. of this Stake prepared
for this paper has been crowded out but will ap-
pear in our next issue. Also minutes of the Sis-
ters Conference in Box Elder and other stakes.


[Column 1]
