MASS CONVENTION,
		SALT LAKE THEATRE.
	In accordance with the call from the Terri-
torial Central Committee the citizens of this
county assembled en masse in the theatre, at 12,
m. The building was well filled. Col. J. R.
Winder Chairman of the Ter. Cen. Com.
called the assembly to order, and nominated
Hon. James Sharp as Chairman. Mr. Sharp
was elected with applause. He thanked the
audience, and stated that sovereign statehood
was the object of the movement. Hon. F. S.
Richards moved that a secretary, two vice presi-
dents and an assistant secretary be elected.
The following gentlemen were nominated and
sustained by vote of the meeting. Judge E.
A. Smith, Secretary, Mayor F. Armstrong,
First Vice President, Hon. C. D. Brinton,
Second Vice President, H. G. Whitney, Assist-
ant Secretary. Prayer was offered by Bishop
O. F. Whitney. The band played, Hail
Columbia." H. G. Whitney read the Call for
the Convention, and Hon. John T. Caine, with
some appropriate remarks, moved that a com-
mittee of seven be appointed by the chair to
select names to be placed before the Convention
as delegates. The Chairman named as Com.
on Nom.: Hon. John T. Caine, Col. T. J.
Webber, Judge Adam Spiers, Dr. H. J. Faust.
E. Holman, O. S. Clawson and A. E. Hyde,
After the Committee had retired, speeches
were called for, and the following gentlemen
responded to the call by briefly addressing the
assembly: Hon. F. S. Richards, Le Grande 
Young, O. F. Whitney, J. F. Wells, J. H.
Moyle, R. W. Sloan and Andrew Jenson.
	Hon. F. S. Richards said the object of the
convention had been fully stated. His heart
was in the measure, and his soul was full of
patriotic pride in the oldest and most populous
Territory coming forward and asking recogni-
tion in the Union! For more than 37 years
the parent government had partially borne the
expenses of the Territorial government. It
was their sincere desire and moral duty to step
forward and assume their own responsibilities.
The Territory was now able to take her own
part. Several times had she asked for admis-
sion, but never were her prospects as bright as
to day. The change would bring new blessings
and responsibilities. These will be conditions
such as the youth receives on attaining his
majority. The additional responsibilities would
be more than compensated for by the powers
and advantages. Statehood was to Territorial
government as was mature manhood to irre-
sponsible childhood. Utah had outgrown her
condition of infancy, and was prepared to take
her part in the national government—the great-
est government on earth. Every additional
state gave greater power and prestige to the
nation. The end of the nation's growth was
not yet; it would be as much greater as was the
nation greater to-day than 100 years ago. There


[Column 1]
was no truer, more loyal or more patriotic peo-
ple than those represented here to-day. They-
should demand equal rights and equal responsi-
bilities with their fellow citizens, and should
bring both a constitution that would be a char-
ter of equal liberty to all. 
	The band played, "The Star Spangled Ban-
ner."
	Le Grande Young was then called for and
said he was heartily in accord with the present
movement. Ever since he had been old enough
to understand the difference between a Terri-
tory  and Statehood he had desired the latter
condition, and he knew that was the sentiment
of the great majority of the people, many of
whom had been anxiously wishing it for the last
 forty years. Thirty-nine years ago the people of
Utah, then called Deseret, framed a constitu-
tion and asked admission. This was before a
territorial government was formed, and the
feeling then was as patriotic as it could possibly
be to-day. The first thing the Pioneers did in-
dicated their true feelings. They came to this
land then in a foreign state, and raised the
stars and stripes. The constitution they then
adopted was worthy of support to-day.
	O. F. Whitney was then called, and was
greeted with cheers and applause. He said the
call was totally unexpected, for he was not a
political speaker. He realized, however, that
he would be recreant to his position as an
American citizen, if he failed to respond. He
was no orator, but he could at times speak his
mind and place before his hearers his sentiments
on the things that lay next his heart. One of
his favorite themes was the beauty and glory of
 the institutions of America. He loved them
with his whole heart. He was a descendant of
some of those whom God raised up to found
this government, and he was in hearty unison
with any movement inspired of God to secure
our rights in this great government raised up to
benefit the human race. It would be a slander
on the Almighty to say there was any intention
in His heart to limit these blessings to any
handful of people or any one nation. Princi-
ples are eternal, having their foundation in
Him, who is the father, inspirer and the pro-
tector of the good and pure and patriotic
everywhere. This nation's principles are of the
leaven destined to leaven the whole lump of
clay which we call mother earth. Every
movement for liberty, every shackle stricken 
off was a step in the purpose of the Almighty
for the emancipation of the human family.
James Russell Lowell, an American poet and
statesman, had voiced the speaker's sentiments,
and the sentiments of every patriot. Says he:
		"Is true freedom but to break
		Fetters for our own dear sake?
		And, with leathern hearts forget.
		That we owe mankind a debt?
		No! True freedom is to share
		All the chains our brothers wear,
		And with heart and hand to be
		Earnest to make others free.

		"They are slaves who fear to speak,
		For the fallen and the weak;
		They are slaves who will not choose
		Hatred, scoffing and abuse,
		Rather than in silence shrink
		From the truth they needs must think;
		They are slaves who dare not be
		In the right, with two or three."
	The speaker invoked the blessing of the Al-
mighty upon all movements for the bettering
of the condition of the human family. May
God defend the right and overrule this action
for our good and His own glory!
	Junius F. Wells, Esq., came forward in
answer to calls from the audience. He felt
deeply the importance of the step being taken
to-day for the emancipation of the people of
Utah. In times past the applications of the
people for admission, made on five occasions,
were passed by. But the people had grown
[Column 2]
and some time their power must be irrestible in 
this demand. The speaker believed that time
had come, and that Utah would be welcomed
into the sisterhood of States. Her people had
every neccessary qualification, and should be
found at the door. If they ask it would be
given; if they knock it will be opened to them.
	Jemes H. Moylǝ, Esq., next responded to the
call. He had been born in Utah's vales, an
American citizen. There was no privilege
upon which he looked with greater honor. The
results of the labors of those who founded
Utah were great, so great that she was now en-
titled to statehood. There were elements of
disunion here as well as elsewhere, but these
were such as were natural to humanity. Utah
had within her borders the resources to make
her one of the greatest of the States in the Union.
Now, on the approach of the nation's natal
day, there was the opportunity to move for-
ward to the liberty commemorated on that day.
May the people uuite in celebrating the birth
of this the greatest and freest of the nations of
the earth.
	Robert W.. Sloan was called for and said he
knew of nothing that could be urged against
statehood for Utah. He did not believe there
was anything of that nature. He was heart
and soul in the movement, and would support
it with all his power. Here was the foundation
of a State that would be the peer of any
that now bore that title. A great
commonwealth had been built up by those who
came to Utah in early days, for the good of
the present generation, who should benefit by
it. He wanted the rights of every man recog-
nized in the Constitution. He believed Utah
would be admitted, but whether she was or
not, her people would know they were right,
and that ultimately the right would win.
	Andrew Jenson, Esq., said his feelings were
in accord with the movement. He had been
born in a foreign land, and when, in his boy-
hood, he read of the great republic of America,
it filled his heart with joy. Many of the peo-
ple of Utah had come from the Scandinavian
nations; but they were not Scandinavians to-
day, but American citizens, honest and true.
They expected to remain American citizens
and to sustain American institutions. He
could not be silent in this great movement, and
pledged himself to support it.
	Hon. John T. Caine, of the committee on
nominations, submitted the following report:
	The Com. on nom. submitted the following
list of names of Delegates to the Constitution-
al Convention to be held in the City Hall on
Thursday, June 30, to represent Salt Lake
County.
	James Sharp, Wm. Riter, John T. Caine,
Samuel P. Teasdel, Franklin S. Richards, Le
Grand Young, Elias A. Smith, Richard Howe,
L. S. Hills, John Clark, Samuel Bennion, An-
drew Jenson, Francis Armstrong, Feramorz
Little, Junius F. Wells, John R. Winder.
	Your committee also suggest the following
alternates to act in the event of a failure of any
of the principals.
	James H. Moyle, John C. Cutler, O. F. Whit-
ney, Thomas W. Jennings.
	On motion, the report of the committee was
adopted, there being but one vote in the nega-
all were elected.
	The closing prayer was offered by President
Angus M. Cannon.
	The assembly then gave three rousing cheers
for the new State of Utah, and dispersed.


