[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | November | Issue: 10 | Title: A TRIP TO ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

A TRIP TO ENGLAND.

			[Continued.]
	WHILE waiting for those who were older
and less sprightly than ourselves  reach us,
we sat ourselves down on one of the many
seats which were placed along the railing,for
the convenience of weary climbers like our-
selves, and enjoyed a view of the surround-
ing city, or cities. The Brooklyn Bridge is
certainly  a   wonderful  construction; and,
while looking upon  its huge proportions,
and wonderful advantages, one is led to ex-
claim in the language of the bible: “Man
hath sought out many  inventions.”  And,
after viewing, and reflecting upon the won-
derful works that have been conceived in
the mind, and wrought ont by the hands of
man,  we are better prepared  to  understand
and appreciate the greatness  and power  of
the Almighty.     For if  puny  man in  his
fallen state, is capable of producing such 
wonders, can our imaginations  conceive of
anything too  prodigiously marvelous to  be
accomplished by the Lord.   “For high as 
are  the heavens above  the  earth,  so  are
God’s ways above the ways  of man.”  On
another occasion we availed ourselves of the
opportunity   of mounting   the   Bridge  at
night; that we might obtain a gas light view
of the city and harbor.   There was no moon,
but the myriads  of  stars  shone  brightly,
making the  heavens  appear  like  a  richly
jeweled canopy o'er spreading  the  earth:
while the innumerable lights from the city,
and lights  in  the  harbor  and  rivers, pro-
duced the pleasing  effect  of a gem-inlaid
land.
	Altogether the view from this command-
ing position is rather more than splendid—
and made us feel solemn and  poetically en-
clined; and with the same impulse, we, not
being capable of giving  expression  to our
thoughts in our own language,fell back up-
on our poet Longfellow.
	In like manner we visited nearly all the
places of special interest  in  the  city: but
among the most novel was  one  which we
found on “Wall” Street. This street leads
out from Broadway and is invariably associ-
ated in our minds  with large  fortunes lost
or won, madcap  speculations  and reckless,
ruthless, risking.    After walking up the
street for some little distance our attention
was attracted by a peculiar buzzing  sound,
which we could not directly define. No— 
it was not the wind, it was not the train
coming in—but after walking a little farther,
and listening a little harder, we arrived at
the conclusion that the noise which we
heard was produced by human voices. Yes
we were nearing the “Stock Exchange.”
Entering the building and ascending the
broad stone steps, we were shown into the
visitors gallery; from which position we
could obtain a full view of what was going
on below. That is, we could walk around
the gallery; and from all sides view a lot of
apparently crazy, though highly respectable
looking men, yelling at each other, all yell-


[Column 1]

ing together and wildly gesticulating with
their hands as though their very lives de-
pended upon it; while the radiant bloom on
their countenances, indexed the intense ex-
citement they felt, handkerchiefs were ner-
vously yet freely applied to wipe the per-
spiration from their heated brows;—while
the many telegraph operators, who had
posts all around the circular room,kept up
a constant click, click, click, on their instru-
ments, adding to the general hubbub and
confusion. It was quite impossible for us
to distinguish a word they were saying,
and looking down upon this noisy foolish
mass of humanity, we could not refrain
from mentally making use of the words of
that saucy "Puck" and exclaimed, "What
fools we mortals be."
	The scene is changed;—and we are now
fairly launched upon the mysterious deep.
We have bid adieu to the Western world,
the land of our nativity, and watch with
co-mingled feelings of sadness and satis-
faction, the rapidly receding shore.
	How the brilliant rays of the declining
sun, glorify aud bring out as by an illumin-
ation, the stately splendor and surpassing
grandeur of the land we love.
	We view it with swelling hearts, hearts
that o'er flow with gratitude, not all un-
mixed with pride, and we exclaim with
rapture deep—profound—"This is my own,
my native land."
	The sun sinks lower, lower, behind yon
fading western hills, and the shades of
night creep on apace to assume the place of
day. Yet in our recollections that il-
lumination still remains. Our country is en-
circled by a halo of light.
	Tis night; deep, vast, and solemn; and the
myriad lamps of heaven are kindly lighted,
penetrating the darkness that rests upon this
uufathomable world of nature.
	"Shine out, O, friendly stars—O,  won-
drous spheres, shine out in all your splendor;
and leave us not in darkness, with these
hungry lashing waves. Shine out in all
your glory;—telling plainly the sweet story,
of our Father's boundless mercy and our
Savior's wondrous love."
	Encompassed by such solemn grandeur,
such awe inspiring magnificence, we ask
ourselves the momentous question; "what
are we?" The answer comes spontaneously:
"Oh, arrogant mortal, thou art but a tiny
speck, amid God's vast creations:" We are
humiliated; yea,  almost stunned, by the
thought of our utter insignificance; our
nothingness. But soon is applied a soothing
balm, to the wounded spirit, and the still
small voice repeats to us these reassuring
words: "Not a sparrow falleth, but your
Heavenly Father knoweth it, and every
hair of your head is numbered. Fear not,
for are ye not of much more worth than
many sparrows?"
	How our hearts exult with gladness and
rejoicing; with praise and thanksgiving to
our Father and God, for His goodness and
mercy, long suffering and  tender care, that
encircles us, abides with us, day by day.
	I spent many evenings on the deck of the
vessel, which seasons failed not to impress
upon me, useful lessons of humility, and
greater love and reverence for the won-
drousness of God.
	"Oh, a life on the Ocean wave, the man
who wrote it was green" etc. Thus sang
one of our steamer passengers who did not
enjoy sea sickness; and we all felt willing
to join in the chorus. Yes, all our fond
anticipations of the night before, were shat-
tered to smitherines;—and we felt that we

[Column 2]

were really iu the grasp of that unwelcome
visitant; "generally always" associated with
"life on the Ocean wave."
	In order to try the power of mind over
matter, I had determined that I would not
give in to the disagreeable visitor; but
would condnct myself just as though I
was perfectly free from any squirmishy
feeling, and perhaps if I took no notice of
it, and did not let others guess that any-
thing was wrong, it might leave me. So
with this idea and purpose strong in my
mind, I took my appointed seat at the break-
fast table—with a great deal of assumed
composure; though I noted, that but very,
very few of those who sat down to the din-
ner table the night before, were now to be
seen. My waiter, all attention, inquired
what I would like, at the same time present-
ing me a bill of fare, and venturing to sug-
gest what he thought would be nice. The
very words on the bill signifying food, lit-
erally turned my stomach; and I felt that if
that waiter stood there talking porridge and
milk,ham and eggs, coffee, toast, rolls mar-
malade etc,to me, I must——on the spot.
So keeping my mouth as nearly shut as pos-
sible to admit any sound whatever, I told
him I wonld have a cup of coffee, and some
dry toast. He could tell by the manner in
which the order was given that I should
not care to wait overly long for him to fill
it; so hurried away as lively as possible,
wearing a peculiar smile on his countenance.
	I could feel myself turning pale all over,
and hot and cold alternately. I knew that
the Captain, the Purser, the Docter. and
some of the passengers who were hardened
to sea life, were eyeing me, to see how long
I would stay with it; which knowledge did
not add any to my comfort. Finally the
coffee and toast arrived and I proceeded to
partake thereof—sipping the coffee and
munching the toast—trembling lest any
moment an accident might befall me.
Probably I sat there three minutes trying to
appear as if I was enjoying myself; every
second of which I felt I could not hold out
another second; yet I would choke it down,
determined that I would not be sick; but O,
the agony of that first breakfast on the
Ocean.
	However notwithstanding my heroic re-
solves, when the three or at most four min-
utes had expired, I had concluded that if
I wished to avoid making myself unpleas-
antly conspicuous, I had better leave the
table, and that without much ceremony; I
made a beeline for my state room which
luckily was very near the saloon, and
dejectedly threw myself down upon the
hard little couch, vanquished. I remained
there somefew hours only, as it was not
recommended for my health;and then succed-
ed in scrambling upon deck, where I joined
my companions who were in a similar con-
dition to my own. We tried for sometime
to cheer each other by chatting,singing,etc.
for, from some uaccountable reason, each
one seemed most anxious that each other
one, should not guess that they were afflict-
ed. So we persistently declared that there
was nothing the matter with us. No in-
deed; we were not sick; alas such protes-
tations were idle. The pallor of the face,
the languor of the movement, and the gen-
eral shrinking from even the sound of the
dinner bell, betrayed only too surely the in-
ward feelings of all. It was quite useless
to try to conceal the fact; we must submit
to the inevitable, which wise conclusion
we arrived at sooner or later, and resolved
to make the best of the situation.

[Column 3]

	This state of affairs lasted for nearly a
week, during which time I made the deck
my dining-hall.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


