[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | November | Issue: 10 | Title: WORLD’S FAIR MASS MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

	﻿WORLD’S FAIR MASS MEETING.

				—
	PURSUANT to a call made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells President of the S. L. Co. World’s
Fair Association a mass meeting of women
was held in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Thursday Nov. 3rd, 1892. Mrs. Wells call-
ed the meeting to order, and its object as
stated in the call, was read by the Secretary
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine.
	The following program was then render-
ed. Music—“Hail Columbia” by mem-
bers of the Tabernacle Juvenile Drum
Corps. Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer.
The chairman introduced Mrs. Maria L.
Nebeker. The subject of whose address
was “The Pioneer women of 1847.” The
speaker entered these valleys at that time,
as a girl of scarcely fourteen years. She
spoke of the hardships that were then en-
dured by the women, living in tents and
wagons in the Fort which was subsequently
built. Their houses were low log
rooms, mud-covered, and by no means
water-proof. The food was of the coarsest
kind, many having had to dig thistles and
segos and use them as a means of subsis-
tence.
	She compared those times with the pres-
ent and said she thought all honor was due
to those brave women who bore those trials
so patiently and did so much in bringing
about this great change.
	A song was given by Mr. Grant Hamp-
ton,Prof. H. L. Krouse accompanist.
	Mrs. Corrine M. Allen spoke upon the
subject “What the World’s Fair will do for
women.” She said we should visit the
World’s Fair, not for amusement simply,
but for educational purposes as the results
of the highest achievements in every line
of woman’s work will there be presented.
She said she thought that as each woman
takes a special pride in having her own lit-
tle home appear to the best advantage and
feels a keen interest in all its surroundings,
so each woman in our own Territory should
strive to have Utah make a creditable pre-
sentation before the world. Effort is the
price of every blessing.
	An ably written article, entitled “What
Literary women can do,” was read by Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne.

	There will be amassed in the World’s Fair
buildings and grounds, for which alone the im-
mense sum of $20,000,000 will be expended, the
largest and most wonderful display of the pro-
ducts and powers of the universe that has ever
been centralized in all the world’s history.
	Universal, because nearly 100 nations and
colonies will participate in the exposition, and
most wonderful in the consummation of 1,800
years of science, art, invention, revelation and
literature.
	Each nation and colony is making the best pos-
sible exhibit, and there we see the whole world in
a day.
	It is scarcely three years since work began, and
so systematically and actively has it been pushed
that the World’s exposition has already assumed
magnificent proportions, and think but a few
months will pass when, like the midday sun in all
its splendor bursting forth upon a dreary world,
the knowledge and enlightenment of each and all
nations will fill the whole universe.
	Think what an epoch it makes for women!
The Gordian knot is at last severed and woman
is set free from the traditions that fettered and
bound her socially, politically and intellectually.
Every avenue is now open to her. For the first
time in history, men and women are working on
the same plane as competitors, and equal justice
is meted out to both. And, dear friends, woman
is doing herself proud in the noble work. Not
only is she serving with success on national and
state committees, but has enlisted, through liter-
ary efforts, enthusiastic interest of eminent and
high minded women abroad. “And it is surpris-
ing that into countries of almost oriental conser-
vatism and limitation this electric current of en-

[Column 2]
thusiasm has extended and formed active com-
mittees even in Turkey, Japan and Mexico.”
	In consequence the woman’s department is
making a wonderful success. We are inspired to
do our part part and represent Utah in the noble
cause.
	To work intelligently and with good results
our plans should be well designed—to the terri-
torial committees we look for this—but in the
accomplishment of these plans the burden of suc-
cess falls on the literary woman.
	Let us pledge our assistance; let us proclaim
the World’s Fair cause; let us be a powerful factor
in promoting a proper representation of Utah.
	Fill our books, magazines, papers and journals
with information to enthuse the people; tell the
great good it will do for humanity; that is the
greatest educator of the age; tell the character of
its buildings and exhibits; tell what other states
are doing in exhibiting. Our literary women
should see that their cause is well represented.
The poems,papers, books and journals, composed
and edited by them, should constitute an interest-
ing collection.
	I wish I could enthuse the young women on
this subject. If you would lend your talents to
the cause many beautiful compositions could be
added to our rich store and aid in making a
meritorious showing.
	We are pleased to note that very often wo-
man’s superior intellectuality has been recognized
in the selection of her literary productions and
plans and designs when offered in competition.
A young lady of only local literary reputation
recently carried off the palm for the Columbian
Ode.
	If we have literary friends let us encourage
them to contribute their best. That the grandeur
and beauty of our mountains and vales may
find fitting praise and be proclaimed in that im-
mense display by the genius of its talented wo-
men. Discuss this subject in the press and at the
fireside, in the pulpit and on the lecture stand,
that enthusiasm may be aroused and the people
will not only try to assist in our exhibit, but have
an absorbing desire to go and see the wonders of
the universe. and seeing believe and believing fall
down and worship.

	Miss Jennie Hawley delighted the andi-
ence with her beautiful singing. A paper
“My recent visit to Chicago” was read by
Territorial President Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards.

	At no time in the history ot the world has such
an opportunity been offered woman to display
her skill in the arts and industries; her proficiency
in the professions, in skilled and unskilled labor
and her art in the management of home and its
domestic industries, as will be afforded at the
great Columbian Exposition at Chicago in 1893.
	It is fitting that in this great country where wo-
man has been advanced to a higher plane than
she ever occupied in the history of the world;
that the Congress in legislating for the great Ex-
position should especially recognize her. The
women of the world recognizing the great benefit
to their sex to be derived through this exposition
have resolved to participate and in every land and
clime enthusiastic reports come of the works wo-
men are preparing for exhibition at the World’s
Fair.
	In every state and territory in the United States
women have been officially recognized in this ex-
position, and it seems especially appropriate that
the women of Utah should embrace this oppor-
tunity of appearing before the world.
	During my recent visit to Chicago I was im-
pressed by the wonderful interest taken by the
women of the land in this great exposition.
	The question of the hour seems to be with the
women of this country, “What can we do for the
World’s Fair?” This may seem a grave question
for the women of Utah, and apparently cannot be
answered satisfactorily, however, it is agitating
the minds of women of other states and terri-
tories and at Chicago anything of the unique or
taking character is seized upon with avidity; and I
must confess that when I first visited Chicago I
felt some hesitancy in suggesting anything that
the women of Utah could do, but when I learned
that in other states they were troubled by the
same preplexing question, I ventured to make our
offering which, as you know, is a set of silk por-
tiers,and I was exceedingly gratified at the way
the offer was accepted.
	The president and secretary of the national
board, together with the leading officials all com-
plimented Utah on the utility of her offering and
in the selection of a place to hang our portiers,
we were given one of the most prominent

[Column 3]
positions in the woman’s building for such a con-
tribution.
	In all the departments of the exposition Utah
has been especially honored and the officials
seem desirous of according us every favor they
have in their power. They seem anxious to en-
courage us and tell us that as much interest will
be taken in the Utah exhibit as in that of any
other state, and so far as I know no suggestions
made for a Utah exhibit in any department has
been rejected at Chicago.
	In addition to this, private individuals will have
the privilege of making private or special dis-
plays.
	It is the purpose of the Utah board of lady
managers to follow the same general plan in re-
gard to our local matters as that laid down by the
national board of lady managers, therefore, we
have notified the ladies of the several counties
to present something of a special character as
coming from the women of the county for the
purpose of making the Utah building elegant and
attractive and I am gratified to learn that in many
of the counties the women are taking an active
interest in the matter.
	I am pleased to learn that the women of Salt
Lake county are wide awake and preparing to do
their share. If in all other counties the same in-
terest is taken, no one will feel ashamed of the
Utah women’s exhibit at the Columbian ex-
hibition. While this work is divided between the
territory, county and individual, it will all go to
make one great whole and will be looked upon
by visitors at the World’s Fair as an exhibit from
the women of Utah
	No individual exhibitor will be neglected; each
one will be duly recognized.
	It is my idea that we should plan together for
the purpose of making an exhibit that will be the
pride of every citizen of this great territory.

	Dr. Mattie P. Hughes was next intro-
duced and in well chosen and eloquent
language, paid a glowing tribute, to the
“young ladies of Utah,” urging them to
put forth their best endeavors in this grand
cause.
After a short intermission the program was
resumed by Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas
singing in that charming style which is so
characteristic of all her musical efforts, “My
Mountain Home.” The subject of a very
able speech by Mrs. J. B. Thrall was,
“What women will do for the World’s
Fair.”
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt read an instructive
article on the subject “The business wo-
men of Utah.” Mrs. Emily S. Richards
gave a few words of explanation regarding
dormitories at the Fair. It is so arranged
that a share—the value of which is $10—
will entitle the holder to a private room
with board, for twenty five days, or two
may occupy the room half that time for the
same amount.
	Mrs. Wells made a few appropriate re-
marks and the meeting closed with lively
music by the band.
		MAY B. TALMAGE Secretary protem.


