A Message to the Relief Society
By Ezra C. Dalby

THE Relief Society is one of the most important organizations in the Church. It was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842, and has been a blessing to the women of the Church and to humanity generally ever since.

The purposes of the Relief Society are many and varied. Among them are: To look after the poor and needy; to care for the sick; to promote the spiritual, intellectual, and social welfare of the women of the Church; to encourage thrift and industry; to promote the arts and sciences; and to assist in all worthy enterprises that tend to the betterment of humanity.

The Relief Society has always been ready to respond to every call made upon it. During times of distress and calamity it has rendered invaluable service. In times of war it has done its part nobly. During the present economic depression it has been a tower of strength to many who otherwise would have suffered greatly.

The work of the Relief Society is not confined to any particular locality. Its influence is felt throughout the world wherever the Church has been established. Its members are found in every land where the Gospel has been preached.

The Relief Society has always been blessed with capable leadership. The women who have presided over it have been women of vision, of faith, and of great executive ability. Under their leadership the organization has grown and prospered until today it numbers more than 100,000 members.

The present is a time when the services of the Relief Society are greatly needed. Economic conditions are such that many are in distress. The organization should be prepared to meet every emergency that may arise. Its members should be trained in all the arts that pertain to home making and home management. They should be prepared to render efficient service in caring for the sick and in ministering to those in distress.

The Relief Society should also continue its educational work. Its members should be encouraged to study and to improve themselves intellectually. They should be familiar with the principles of the Gospel and should be prepared to teach them to others.

May the Lord continue to bless the Relief Society and may it continue to be a power for good in the world.