Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God." (Matt. 5: 8.)
A man's heart is pure when it loves only the good, when all its motives are right, and when all its aspirations are after the noble and true. Purity and excellence of character are of greater worth than any amount of grace, wealth, genius or power. Without a solid, sterling basis of individual goodness, all the grace, elegance and art in the world fail to save or elevate a people. The New Testament insists on personal purity as the beginning of all training and all knowledge. Such men as Paul and Peter and the others who changed the world, insisted on personal purity. They meant that a man's body should be so pure as to be a fit temple for the Spirit of God. The 15th Psalm has sung the purification of life and humility of heart which might fit him who should sojourn in God's tabernacle. Since the 24th and 25th Psalms also describe purity as preparation for God's house, the conclusion here is natural, they shall see God. Those who cleanse their hearts understand God in proportion to their purity, and, when they are cleansed from all sin, will see Him face to face. (Heb. 12:14; John 3:2-3; Rev. 22:4.) "Verily, thus saith the Lord, it shall come to pass that every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments shall see my face and know that I am." (Doc. And Cov. 93:1.) Jesus tells us that purity of heart leads to a knowledge of God. The perfect knowledge of God is to be attained only by the perfectly consecrated life. The human soul is a mirror on which the light of God shines and only the pure mirror reflects a perfect image. You cannot see God as directing you in your perplexing experiences except through a perfectly purified heart. Just as the slightest speck or flaw on the lens of a huge telescope blurs the image of far distant stars, so the films on the object-glass of character obscure the heavenly vision. Just as new stars may be discovered by the eye through the perfect lens, so the truth, undiscernible to others, is revealed to the pure in heart. President Brigham Young tells us that the prayer of the pure in heart will have more effect than the eloquence of Cicero. The simple honest heart is of more avail with the Lord than all the pomp, pride, splendor and eloquence produced by men. "In addressing a congregation, though the speaker be unable to say more than half a dozen sentences, and those awkwardly constructed, if his heart is pure before God, those few broken sentences are of more value than the greatest eloquence without the Spirit of the Lord and of more real worth in the sight of God, angels, and all good men." (Discourses of Brigham Young.) This does not mean that we cannot have the Spirit of the Lord unless we speak in "awkwardly constructed sentences." What a happy combination to have a certain amount of eloquence along with purity of heart and the Spirit of the Lord! Our abilities or gifts were given us by our Heavenly Father. (James 1: 17.) Therefore let us develop our gifts in His work! (Heb. 13:21.)