A Woman Who Has Learned How to Live
By Sadie Adamson

APPRECIATION where art thou hidden? In this modern age most people can spell the word but few enjoy its meaning.

It was late in June when I entered the road that led to the old farmhouse wherein lived Mrs. Smith, owner of a small farm in central Utah. On arriving at the cottage I felt a sense of shyness, for I was a stranger and had heard the woman was deaf. She was quick to see however, for I had scarcely knocked when the door was immediately opened and the little woman smiled and bade me enter. I explained I had come for goose-feathers. I was surprised with the alertness of her movements as she produced two luxurious pillows.

"Don't you get lonely on the farm?" I asked, by way of conversation. She smiled faintly as she pointed to her flower beds, her garden and her flock of geese.

"With all this around I can hardly get lonesome," she replied. "You need an account of my being deaf?" she questioned. "It bothered me some of course when I was young and raising a family. You see I was twenty-five when I contracted typhoid fever, and medical help was a luxury at that time, but I've been so glad it was my ears rather than my eyes. I've been able to do my bit in the world. I have cared for two children together with my ten and have never hired help. They are all splendid citizens. Keeping busy keeps one happy."

"You have had education," I pointed out. "You are one of the few women who know how to live." She smiled her appreciation.

"I was born and raised across the water, and quit school at nine years of age. I acquired an education by degrees. I can quote most any scripture in the Bible," and motioning me to a little side door she bade me look at her library. Stack upon stack of magazines lay on the floor together with stacks of newspapers. At one side of the room stood a huge bookcase. Some of our best authors gleamed from its polished glass doors. She laughingly read a recent article on prohibition. I marveled at her perfect pronunciation and the rapidity with which she read. Her voice was low and well modulated, clear and rich. Although she is seventy-two years old I have never met a woman with a more cheerful outlook on life, nor one who had so thoroughly the gift of appreciation. Though her life has been hard, she carries a sweet spirit of contentment. Though she has had years of hard work and trials, her face is without a wrinkle. Rarely do we find this. The face is the index to the soul and I thought as I left the cottage, surrounded by nature's hand, I had never seen a sweeter face nor did I know of a better life, and the words of the poet came at my bidding.

"God gave us life, not just to buy or sell
And all that matters is to live it well."