[Vol57 | December 1970 | Page 901 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— Lesson 7— The Atonement of | Jesus Christ]
[Spiritual Living— Lesson 7— The Atonement of Jesus Christ]

After this transgression of the law, the following resulted: (1) they were banished from the presence of God and became spiritually dead (2 Ne. 2:5; 9:8-9; Mosiah 16:1-15; Al. 42:6-11); (2) they became subject to temporal or physical death (2 Ne. 9:6-8; Mosiah 16: 4-11; Al. 12:26-27; Hel 14:16-17; Morm. 9:13); (3). They gained knowledge of and_ experience with good and evil; and (4) they obtained the gift of posterity. (2 Ne. 2:23; Moses 5:10-11; Doctrines of Salvation 1:111.) Elder James E. Talmage wrote that the fall of Adam and Eve consisted of their taking into their bodies food unfit for their spiritual natures. As a result of this they became subject to death. (Jesus the Christ [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1958], pp. 29-31.) Class Discussion Evaluate the fall of Adam and Eve in respect to obedience and the plan of salvation. THE NEED OF A REDEEMER In the premortal world, provision was made for Jesus Christ to atone for the fall of man. (Moses 4:1-4; Abr. 3:22-28; Moses 5:57.) Adam and Eve came under the two-fold penalty of their transgression—spiritual death and physical death. (D&C 29: 41; 2 Ne. 9:6.) What would happen if there were no Redeemer? The two penalties would have taken effect forever. Man would have remained in spiritual death, or perpetual banishment from the presence of God, and his body would have remained in the grave throughout all time. But what would this mean? Jacob, the Nephite prophet, has given the answer to this question: If the flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and became the devil, to rise no more. And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like unto himself. (2 Ne. 9:8-9.) To permit this condition would have brought total victory to Satan and doomed all of God's children to endless torment. If God were to allow the defeat of his plan for man, he would violate the covenant he made with him premortally. (Titus 1:2.) Because we are descended from Adam and Eve, all who have lived or shall live upon the earth are subject to physical death. And when we sin, we fall spiritually; we become subject to spiritual death. In order for man to be released from the double penalty of physical death and _ banishment from the presence of God, which is spiritual death, reconciliation must be made to satisfy the demands of justice in the breaking of the law. Not only must the transgressions of Adam and Eve be atoned for but also the sins of their posterity. God's plan to provide an earth life for his children amid _ conditions Lesson Department where they might develop was accomplished by the fall of Adam and Eve; man's individual sins, however, are not required to satisfy the general purposes of God. When the atonement was made for man, he was freed of the transgression or sin committed by Adam and Eve. (Moses 6:54; 1 Cor. 15:21-22; Rom. 5:18.) However, men are accountable for their individual acts in opposition to the commandments of God. Man receives a spiritual death when he sins, but through the atonement of Christ, he may be redeemed from his spiritual fall. (D&C 29:41; Al. 12:16, 18, 31-32; Hel. 14:17-18.) Little children are born into the world innocent and are not subject to spiritual death until they sin after the age of accountability. (D&C 93:38; 29: 46-48; 74:7; Moro. 8:19.) Adam and Eve were helpless in redeeming themselves from the consequences of their transgression. So it is with man. Who amongst men can redeem the body from physical death or reunite himself with God by his own acts? None! Thus the need for a Redeemer, one who could break the bands of death and bring about the return of fallen man into God's presence. The Lord allowed Adam and Eve a probationary period in which they could repent. (Al. 42:4-5.) Adam rejoiced when he learned of the possibility of his redemption: And in that day the Holy Ghost fell upon Adam, which beareth record of the Father and the Son, saying: I am the Only Begotten of the Father from the beginning, henceforth and forever, that as thou hast fallen thou mayest be redeemed, and all mankind, even as many as will. And in that day Adam blessed God 

903 December 1970

 and was filled, and began to prophesy concerning all the families of the earth, saying: Blessed be the name of God, for because of my transgression my eyes are opened, and in this life I shall have joy, and again in the flesh I shall see God. (Moses 5:9-10.) Eve also was glad when she heard these things, and she said: Were it not for our transgression we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient. (Moses 5:11.) SALVATION THROUGH JESUS CHRIST ONLY When the law was broken in the Garden of Eden, the justice of God, or the law of justice, brought the penalty of the broken law. (Al. 42:14.) To appease the demands of the law of justice, the plan of mercy required that an atonement be made by God to compensate for the broken law. And now, the plan of mercy could not be brought about except an atonement should be made; therefore God himself atoneth for the sins of the world, to bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands of justice, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful God also. (Al. 42:15.) Alma informs us that the plan of redemption could not take place without a man's repentance; otherwise, mercy could not take effect and it would destroy the work of justice. If the work of justice were destroyed, God would cease to be God because he is perfect in both of these qualities. (Al. 42:13, 15.) Who, then, would redeem man from his fallen condition? Only God could appease the demands of justice and bring about the law of mercy that man might not 904 remain under the penalty of death of the body and also banishment from God's presence forever. (Al. 34:10-11, 14; 2 Ne. 9:7.) Who is God through whom this redemptive act is possible for the inhabitants of this earth? He who created it under the direction of the Father; he who gave the plan of salvation to Adam and to the prophets; he through whom the Eternal Father of our spirits has given revelation since the fall of Adam; he who voluntarily, before the foundations of the earth were laid, offered himself a ransom; he only is capable of such an act. Class Discussion How does the Lord Jesus Christ fulfill the foregoing requirements? Adam was given the following commandment regarding the one and only Being who could atone for man's sins: Wherefore teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous Judge, who shall come in the mendian of time. (Moses 6:57.) In our own dispensation, the last one, the Savior Jesus Christ has stated that he is the one and only Redeemer. (D&C 19:15-19; 35:1-2; 38:4-5; 45:3-5.) WHY JESUS IS THE ATONER There are three reasons why Jesus Christ is the only Redeemer and Atoner. First, he is the Only Begotten Son of the Eternal Father in the flesh. (Moses 6:57; D&C 76:23.) The following from Elder James E. Talmage gives the meaning of the term "Only Begotten": Mary's promised Son was to be "The Only Begotten" of the Father in the flesh; so it had been both positively and abundantly predicted. True, the event was unprecedented; true also it has never been paralleled; but that the virgin birth would be unique was as truly essential to the fulfillment of prophecy as that it should occur at all. That Child to be bom of Mary was begotten of Elohim, the Eternal Father, not in violation of natural law but in accordance with a higher manifestation thereof; and, the offspring from that association of supreme sanctity, celestial Sireship, and pure though mortal maternity, was of right to be called the "Son of the Highest.'' In His nature would be combined the powers of Godhood with the capacity and possibilities of mortality; and this through the ordinary operation of the fundamental law of heredity, declared of God, demonstrated by science, and admitted by philosophy, that living beings shall propagate—after their kind. The Child Jesus was to inherit the physical, mental, and spiritual traits, tendencies, and powers that characterized His parents—one immortal and glorified—God, the other human—woman. (Talmage, Jesus the Christ, p. 81.) From his mortal mother Jesus inherited the power to die, and from his Eternal Father he received power over death. (John 10:17-18.) By this power he could die only if he willed to die, and also he could reunite his spirit and body as a resurrected, immortal being. Second, Jesus Christ was the only sinless being that ever lived. (1 Pet. 1:19-20; D&C 45:3-4; George Q. Cannon, (Journal of Discourses, 22:239.) Third, by foreordination in the council of heaven, he received the mission to offer the atonement. He was the God of the Old Testament, even from the beginLesson Department ning of man's mortal life on this earth. (John 6:38; 4:34; D&C 19:2; 20:24.) A summary of these facts was made by President John Taylor in these words: He, in the nearness of His relationship to the Father, seems to occupy a position that no other person occupies. He is spoken of as His well beloved Son, as the Only Begotten of the Father— does not this mean the only begotten after the flesh? If He was the first born and obedient to the laws of His Father, did He not inherit the position by right to be the representative of God, the Savior and Redeemer of the world? And was it not His peculiar right and privilege as the firstborn, the legitimate heir of God, the Eternal Father, to step forth, accomplish and carry out the designs of His Heavenly Father pertaining to the redemption, salvation and exaltation of man? And being Himself without sin (which no other mortal was), He took the position of Savior and Redeemer, which by right belonged to Him as the first born. And does it not seem that in having a body specially prepared, and being the offspring of God, both in body and spirit, He stood preeminently in the position of the Son of God, or in the place of God, and was God, and was thus the fit and only personage capable of making an infinite atonement? (Mediation and Atonement [Salt Lake City: Stevens & Wallis, 1950], p. 135.) WHAT THE ATONEMENT IS What is the atonement wrought by Jesus Christ? In the words of Elder James E. Talmage, this answer is given: The structure of the word in its present form is suggestive of the true meaning; it is literally at-one-ment, "denoting reconciliation, or the bringing into agreement of those who have been estranged." And such is the significance of the saving sacnfice of the Redeemer, whereby He expiated the transgression of the fall, through which came death into the world, and provided ready and efficient means for man's attainment of immortality through reconciliation with God. (Articles of Faith 

905 December 1970

 [Salt Lake City: The~Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1966], p. 75.) The atonement of Christ was accomplished by (1) his taking upon himself the sins of those who would repent, thus removing from them the necessity of suffering for those sins (D&C 19:15-19); (2) by Christ's giving his life in a manner which spilt his blood. This act of atonement was made in the Garden of Gethsemane when the Savior shed drops of blood. (Mosiah 3:7.) Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, reminds us_ that other men have endured death by crucifixion,: but no _ other person, or group of men, ever suffered what the Savior suffered in the Garden. (Conference Report, October 1953, p. 35.) The Redeemer made it possible for all men to receive the resurrection. (1 Cor. 15:21-22.) The questions, how does one accept the atonement for his individual salvation, and who are the beneficiaries of this act of mercy, are reserved for the next lesson. Class Discussion How should the knowledge of the atonement and Christ's_ indescribable suffering influence our daily behavior? SUMMARY Latter-day Saints are true followers of Jesus Christ. They are Christians in the fullest sense of the word because they believe in Christ for what he said he was to the prophets of the Old Testament, to the Jewish people during his mortal ministry, to the Nephite people on the American Continent, and, to the Prophet 906 Joseph Smith, in the revelations recorded in the other modern books of scripture. The Master proclaimed himself as the Son of God throughout his mortal ministry. (John 17: 4-5, 8, 24; Matt. 16:16-17.) As President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., said: I hope none of you will go from here.. With the idea that I am saying that the consciousness 'of his divinity was a gradual growth in him. It was not so, according to the record. That doctrine that it was a gradual growth is a doctrine of the "higher critics" who have worked through it to the proposition that the idea of his being a Son of God was invented by his Apostles after his death, and therefore these critics cast doubt upon Jesus himself. Jesus knew from the beginning, at any rate from the time he was twelve, that he was the Christ. ("Jesus the Christ—Creator and Redeemer," BYU Speeches of the Year, May 22, 1956, p. 5.) Latter-day Saints know that Jesus Christ is literally the Son of God, that he was sinless during his earthly life, and that he was the Creator of this earth and the pre-earth appointed Savior. All of these facts they take literally because the modern proof in the scriptures revealed anew attests to these facts. They know that only in and through Jesus Christ may salvation be received, for he is the only Being who could make an atonement for sin. They are grateful that they are beneficiaries of that offering divine. They know that if the atonement of Jesus Christ were not made, they would become devils in misery forever and ever. In the intense, indescribable suffering of the Son of God, Latter-day Saints have learned that if they could give everything they possess as a gift for what Christ has done for them, it would be only a token of the worth of the atonement. Expressed in the language of President John Taylor, they recognize the truth of the following: The suffering of the Son of God was not simply the suffering of personal death; for in assuming the position that He did in making an atonement for the sins of the world He bore the weight, the responsibility, and the burden of the sins of all men, which, to us, is incomprehensible. Groaning beneath this concentrated load, this intense, incomprehensible pressure, this terrible exaction of Divine justice, from which feeble humanity shrank, and through the agony thus exsweating great drops of blood, He was led to exclaim, "Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me." He had wrestled with the superincumbent load in the wilderness, He had struggled against the powers of darkness that had been let loose upon him there; placed below all things, His mind surcharged. With agony and pain, lonely and apparently helpless and forsaken, in his agony the blood oozed from His pores. Thus rejected by His own, attacked by the powers of darkness, and seemingly forsaken by His God, on the cross He bowed beneath the accumulated load, and cried out in anguish, ""My God, why hast thou forsaken me!"' When death approached to relieve Him from His horrible position, a ray of hope appeared Lesson Department through the abyss of darkness with which He had been surrounded, and in a spasm of relief, seeing the bright future beyond, He said, "It is finished! Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." As a God, He descended below all things, and made Himself subject to man in man's fallen condition; as a man, He grappled with all the circumstances incident to His sufferings in the world. Anointed, indeed, with the oil of gladness above His fellows, He struggled with and overcame the powers of men and devils, of earth and hell combined; and aided by this superior power of Godhead, He vanquished death, hell and the grave, and arose triumphant as the Son of God, the very eternal Father, the Messiah, the Prince of peace, the Redeemer, the Savior of the world; having finished and completed the work pertaining to the atonement, which His Father had given Him to do as the Son of God and the Son of man. As the Son of Man, He endured all that it was possible for flesh and blood to endure; as the Son of God He triumphed over all, and forever ascended to the right hand of God, to further carry out the designs of Jehovah pertaining to the world and to the human family. (Mediation and Atonement, pp. 146-48.) Latter-day Saints are grateful, for they know Jesus to be the "mediator of the new covenant, who wrought out this perfect atonement through the shedding of his own blood." (D&C 76:69.) SPIRITUAL LIVING The Pearl of Great Price 'Lesson 8—The Lord's Work and His Glory Reading assignment: Moses, chapters 1, 5, 6 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, October 1971 OBJECTIVE: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman that the Lord offers her the gifts of immortality and eternal life if she lives to be worthy of these gifts.