[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: R. S. REPORT. | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORT.
HYRUM STAKE.
	The conference of Hyrum stake Relief
society was held in the Stake House at
Hyrum, November 18, 1905, President
Nellie E. Parkinson presiding, Counselor
Lovisa H. Allen taking charge of the
forenoon meeting. After the usual open-
ing exercises, Hyrum first and second
wards also College ward were reported
in good condition by the respective presi-
dents,
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke at length
upon the duties of the Relief Society in
regard to the training of the young peo-
ple and the beauties of the organization,
	Bishop L. P. Christiansen of Mt. Ster-
ling ward spoke encouragingly to the sis-
ters, and asked the Lord to bless them in
their noble work.
	Singing, "Guide us, O thou great Jeho-
vah." Benediction was pronounced by
Elder Elias Davis of Mendon.
	The afternoon session convened at 2
p.m. President Nellie Parkinson again
presided, with Counselor Elizabeth
Critchlow taking charge of the exercises.
After singing and prayer, roll call showed
213 members present. Minutes of the
afternoon session of the conference held
August 15, 1905, read and approved.
	A lecture from the "Outlines" on Court-
ship was given by Sister Vilate Davis of
Avon.
	A song was rendered by a member of
College ward Relief Society, after which
Sister Rose Needham of Logan spoke of
the many blessings she had received; en-
couraged the sisters to do their duties
cheerfully and to look upon the bright


side of life; also sang "Count your bless-
ings."
	Sister Zina Y. Card again addressed the
congregation. We need to attend all of
our meetings; we live but one day at a
time, so do not worry, but live each day
as near right as possible. We are here
to be tried, but many of our trials are of
our own making. The Spirit of God is
with us when we strive to do our duty.
Look well after our children, love them,
pray with them, make them worthy men
and women, and you will be blessed.
	President Nellie E. Parkinson said: It
has been a privilege to be here today.
May we take to our hearts the advice and
instructions we have heard, and may our
Father help us to do our duty.
	Singing, "Prayer is the soul's sincere de-
sire. Benediction by Counselor Lovisa
Allen. N. E. P.


In the House of Representatives, Dec.
7th, 1905, Mr. French introduced the fol-
lowing bill, which was referred to the
Committee on Election of President,
Vice-President, and Representatives in
Congress, and ordered to be printed:
	A bill to protect the rights of women
citizens of the United States to register
and vote for members of the House of
Representatives.
	Whereas, The right to choose members
of the House of Representatives is vest-
ed by the Constitution in the people of
the several States without distinction of
sex, but for want of proper legislation,
has hitherto been restricted to one-half
of the people. For the purpose, there-
fore, of correcting this error and of giv-
ing effect to the Constitution,
	Be it enacted by the Senate and House
of Representatives of the United States
of America in Congress assembled, that
women who are citizens of the United
States, and possess such qualifications of
age, residence, property, or education, as
may be required of men to make them
legal voters in the several States, shall be
eligible to register and vote in all States
of the Union at all elections for members
of the House of Representatives.


SPICE CAKE.—One cup of sugar, one-
half cup of butter, one-half cup of molas-
ses, and one scant teaspoonful each of
cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and a little
nutmeg; beat well together, then add one
cup of sour milk. with one tespoonful of
soda stirred in until it is quite foamy. 
Flour enough to make it quite stiff, and
one cup of raisins, floured. Bake slowly
and ice when cool.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
