[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: C. & M. WILLARDSON. | Author: Unknown]

					C. & M. WILLARDSON.


[Column 1]
	Sister Nancy Margaret Osborn Nielson was
born in Greene Co., Indiana, March 8, 1840.
Came to Utah in 1852 with her father’s family; her
mother died on the plains. They settled in East
Weber Weber Co. Utah. On Feb. 11, 1857, she
was married to Elder Hans Enoch Nielson. They
were among the first settlers of Hyrum, coming
here in the year 1860. She was the mother of
eleven children, six of whom will meet her on the
other side, while five, three sons and two
daugh ers are left here to revere the memory of a
kind and loving mother.
	Oh the 9th of May, 1878, she was chosen as
Secretary of the Hyrum Ward Relief Society of
which she had been a member since its organiza-
tion, ten years before, May 9, 1868. She made a
most efficient Secretary and performed her duty
faithfully until Nov. 1, 1891 when she was honor-
ably released. Seven months later she was again
chosen one of the officers of the Relief Society in
the Hyrum Ward, this time as first Counselor. In
May, 1893, she was chosen President of the Relief
Society, which office she held until Feb. 1899, when
on account of failing health she was honorably
released, but on the 25th of October, 1901, when
the Hyrum Ward had been divided into three
wards, Sister N M. Nielson was again chosen
as first counselor in the Ward in which she re-
sided (Hyrum 3rd Ward). Her health did not
improve, however, and on July 18, 1904, she was
again released.
	She was an energetic and able president, a wise
counselor, a true friend. and a faithful Latter-day
Saint. She died Feb. 2, 1906, at Hyrum, Utah.
		Her trials are o’er, the victory won,
		The reward of faithful Saints is sure.
			May we cherish her memory,
			May it lead us on,
		Till the end of our days, and our race is run.
						GEORGENE RALPH.
In Loving Remembrance of Emily Eliza Maddi-
	son; who died very suddenly of heart failure.
	At Providence, Utah, November 28, 1905, Emily
Eliza Hemming, the beloved wife of John F.
Maddison; she was born in Coventry, Eng-

[Column 2]
land, on the 3rd day of January, 1837, Em-
braced the Gospel in her youth and was banished
several times from her father’s house for the gos-
pel’s sake; crossed the sea in the ship William
Tapscott; she waited on the sick during the voy-
age; arrived in Utah in 1859; lived the first winter
in Wellsville, Cache County, and then went to
Providence to her permanent home. She married
John F. Maddison in 1860, and had five children,
who died in their infancy, but she reared two
motherless children. In her younger days she took
an active part in the Primary and Sunday School
work and identified herself with the Relief Soci-
ety from the beginning, and was the first secre-
tary, and at her death was first counselor to the
President. Through all her affliction of sorrow
and trouble and all the hardships of a new country
she was never known to complain. She was a
faithful wife and mother; she was always willing
to wait upon the sick and render assistance to the
poor in their distress; was a true, faithful Latter-
day Saint, and was beloved by all the Saints.
		CHRISTINA THEURER, President.
		JEMIMA CAMPBELL, Secretary
				Providence Relief Society.
	SKETCH OF SISTER MARY JOHN.
	Sister Mary John was born in Wales Dec. 23,
1831; became converted to the doctrines of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in
the year 1857. Was married to David John, now
President of the Utah Stake of Zion, in Cardiff,
South Wales, Feb. 8, 1860, They left Livevpool,
April 16, 1861, in the ship Manchester; and
reached Provo five months later, where they lo-
cated and remained until her death.
	Sis[-]er John held the position of secretary of
the Third Ward Relief Society for ten years. For
eleven years she was counselor to Margaret T.
Smoot in the presidency of the Utah Stake Relief
Society, and at the death of Sister Smoot suc-
ceeded her as president, which position she has
filled for twenty-one years.
	She was a faithful worker and was loved and
respected by all who knew her. She was the
mother of one son and eight daughters, one son
and three daughters now living.
	Sister John was one of those noble spirits re-
served to come forth in the latter days, and has
lived the life of a true Saint, Her death occurred
Dec. 14, 1905, the immediate cause being pneu-
monia, and she is sincerely mourned by her many
friends.							C. B. P.
	DEATH OF ONE OF OUR BELOVED SISTERS.
	Sister Mary A. Morton Smith was the daughter
of Albert and Josephine Norton, and the wife of
Albert S. Smith.
	She was born Sept. 29, 1874; died Sept. 26, 1905,
at her parents’ home in Panguitch. At an early
age she was associated with the Primary Associa-
tion and the Mutual Improvement Association.
For a number of years she was secretary, treas-
urer and librarian of the Y. L. M. I. Association
of Panguitch.
	In 1901 she was married to Albert S. Smith of
Parowan. They made their home in Circleville,
where she became an active member of the Relief
Society and of the Y. L. M. I. A. at Circleville;
these positions she filled wite honor.
	She was the mother of three childten, all of
whom died in infancy. She leaves a husband, a
father and mother, two brothers and a sister, as
well as many rolatives and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss.
	The funeral services were held in the meeting-
house, at 3 o’clock on the 8th. The speakers all,
spoke of the good qualities of the departed. The,
choir rendered beautiful singing. May her loved
ones be comforted, in the assurance that she is not
dead but gone to continne her labors in a higher
and better world.				M. L. H.
		ELIZABETH P. NEWTON.
			(Died Dec. 3, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
in his infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Elizabeth Parker Newton; and,
	Whereas. In her departura we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emula-
tion of all.
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family, in this
their sad hour of affliction and distress, and that
her memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance,
to remain with us as long as life shall last, with
the hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved, That a copy of


these resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of
the Nineetenth Ward Relief Society.
			ELIZA K. WILLIS.
		(Died December 29, 1905.)
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father,
in His infinite wisdom, to remove from our midst,
by the hand of death, one of our most esteemed
teachers, Eliza K. Willis; and,
	Whereas, in her departure we have sustained
the loss of a true friend and devoted worker,
whose presence it was a pleasure to enjoy, and
whose life and example is well worthy the emu-
lation of all
	Therefore, Be it resolved, That we tender our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of affliction and distress, and that her
memory be cherished as a sacred inheritance, to
remain with us as long as life shall last, with the
hope of meeting in a brighter world.
	And be it further resolved. That a copy of these
resolutions be recorded upon the minutes of the
Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.
	Committee: Sarah A. Hancock, Chairman;
Agnes G. Branch, Victoria Thurman, Officers
and Members Nineteenth Ward Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
