[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | February | Issue: 8 | Title: Unique Party | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

UNIQUE PARTY.
	The General Officers and Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. entertained in a most
pleasing and hospitable manner the Gen-
eral Officers and Board of the Relief So-
ciety and Primary Association at the
residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall on
West Temple St., where very many not-
able gatherings have been held, from
time to time for years past.
	The party was given as a tribute of re-
spect and honor in memory of two of the
most illustrious women in Church history
and who have each of them occupied the
position of “Elect Lady” in the Relief
Society, Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina
D. H. Young, whose names are coupled
together as household words through-
out all modern Israel.
	The desire of those now living who
knew these veteran sisters intimately, is
to keep their memories fresh and green
in the hearts of the younger generation,
that they may not only honor their
names, but follow in their footsteps, re-
membering that these heroines “blazed
the way” for the grand opportunities
open to them and those who follow after.
There are many others whose names we
mention with reverence, but these two
lives were closely blended and anniver-
saries of their birth come in the same
month. Sister Eliza R. Snow was born
Jan. 21, 1804, and Sister Zina D. H.
Young Jan. 31, 1821. Therefore, it
seemed a very fitting thing to meet in
memory of both between the two dates.
	Ceneral President Martha H. Tingey of
the Young Ladies’ Associations, ap-
pointed an able committee to take charge
of the program, Sisters Minnie J. Snow,
Julia A. Brixon and Joan Campbell.
	About fifty or more guests were gath-
ered at 2 p. m., the appointed hour, and
as a prelude to the opening the hymn by E.
R. Snow, “O, awake my slumbering min-
strel, was sung, young Mrs. Tuddenham
leading. General President, (really the
hostess of the occasion) made an informal
address of welcome that drew all hearts
towards her in sympathy and love for the
great loss she had so recently sustained in
the death of her beloved mother, Sister
M. Isabella Horne, who had always on
like occasions been present, and taken an
active part, a woman of affairs, both spir-
itual and temporal. General President
Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, responded
in behalf of the Relief Society, and spoke
in endearing terms of Sister Eliza R. and
Zina D. with whom she had been asso-
ciated and labored for so many years,
and rejoiced in meeting with those she
met here. General President Louie B.
Felt responded feelingly in behalf of the
Primary Association and paid a glowing
tribute to the women who had helped


[Column 1]
forward the work for the little people,
and had given her encouragement to
persevere in the mammoth undertaking.
	A quartette by the young ladies was
given, “Though deep’ning trials,” etc.,
and very much enjoyed by all.
	Greetings were then exchanged and
lively conversation kept up, piano solos
intervening, Miss Mattie Reed recently re-
cently returned from studying in Ger-
many, giving some choice musical selec-
tions; remarks were also made by several
of the sisters in appreciation of Sisters
Eliza R. and Zina D., the benefits de-
rived from their personal acquaintance,
and thelr remarkable life work. Those
who responded were Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, Emily S.
Richards, Edna L. Smith, Sarah Jenne
Cannon, Margaret P. Young, President
Bathsheba W. Smith, who referred lov-
ingly to Sisters Eliza and Zina, and Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts who spoke in rather
a humorous vein and Ruth M. Fox
	The most appetizing refreshments were
served to the guests by the young ladies
of the Board in their very charming and
delightful manner, and meantime Presi-
dents Joseph F. Smith and John R. Win-
der arrived, having been unavoidably de-
tained with business engagements. Broth-
er W. B. Dougall was also present.
	Later the program was taken up, Sis-
ter Minnie J. Snow, chairman, making
an impromptu speech giving some inci-
dents connected with her illustrious kins-
woman, and introducing as the first on
the program, her little daughter Lucile,
who was the nearest relative present to
the celebrated poet whose hymns are now
sung in many languages. Little Lucile, in
a very sweet and graceful style, sang the
entire hymn, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest,” her mother playing the ac-
companiment. 
	Sister E. B. Wells had been given the
subject, “Sister Eliza as a Mother in
Israel.” The speaker dwelt at some
length on the life-work of this distin-
guished woman organizer, philanthrop-
ist, poet, writer and author, and as a
mother in deed to many thousands of
men and women, strictly speaking.
	Sister May Anderson spoke of a num-
ber of incidents in the life of Sister Eliza
that were fraught with intense tnterest to
the children of Zion and Primary work-
ers. Sister May B Talmage read with
fine expression and depth of feeling, Sis-
ter Eliza’s poem entitled “Evening
Thoughts, or What It Is To Be A Saint.”
Sister Maria Y. Dougall spoke more
especially of Sister Eliza’s motherly qual-
ities, though she had never been a moth-
er, and paid a charming tribute to her
labors among the children, also of her
foster-mother, Sister Zina, her delightful
story telling to all the children in her
rooms in the Lion House, and her regu-
lar daily prayers with those under her
care, Sister Susa Y. Gates also gave
reminiscences of the Lion House days,
mentioning along with Sister Eliza R.
and Zina D, some incidents connected
with her own mother’s sojourn in the
Lion House. President John R. Winder
favored the audience with brief remarks
and gave them good advice, alluded to
Sister Eliza’s peculiar and trying exper-
iences and asked that Sister Bathsheba
Smith relate the incident of Sister Eliza’s
composing the hymn that had just been
ung, O, my Father.” Sister Bathsheba

[Column 2]
responded, relating the conditions under
which Sister Eliza was inspired to write
the beautiful hymn that has thrilled the
souls of so many thousands.
	President Joseph F. Smith made an
eloquent and inspirational address to the
women of Zion, encouraging them to ex-
cel in all that would make for the uplift-
ing of humanity and the spread of truth
and righteousness.
	The exercises closed with all joining in
singing the hymn, “‘Mid scenes of con-
fusion and creature complaints,”––chorus
Home, Sweet Home. Benediction was
pronounced by Elder W. B. Dougall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


