SEQUEL TO MY LAST.

	I have given my views very freely on celes- 
tial marriage, substantiating it by Bible proof,
quoting Scripture from the old and new Testa-
ment. But the enquirer often asks the ques-
tion, “How can you women whose husbands
have other wives endure it? I should think
you would quarrel and be jealous of your hus-
bands.”
I will answer these questions by giving my
own experience. When I first began keeping
house after marriage, there were two of us,
and we agreed to have family prayer, each one
taking her part; we also asked a blessing upon
our food. This was in the absence of our hus-
band. We prayed night and morning vocally
and in secret. We prayed for each other, for
our husband, our children, brothers and sisters
in the Church, and for all mankind. We asked
our Heavenly Father to preserve us through
the day, to bless our labors, to preserve us
from sickness, give us our daily bread, and
enlighten our minds by His Holy Spirit, and
to give us grace to enable us to overcome all
evil thoughts, jealousies, hatred and malice.
We are all weak of ourselves, but through
the Savior's redeeming grace, and through
charity, that covers the imperfections of others,
we are able to endure, to discipline ourselves,
and live in peace in the marriage relation. We
 each had a child; the sister wife a daughter,
and I a son. We had a double cradle made
to hold the two children, one lay at the head
and one at the foot. One of us would take
our sewing and care for the children, while the
other would do the housework, alternating the
work according as we saw fit. This made the
work light and easy for both of us. We lived
together until we had three children each.
	We were good and kind mothers to one
another’s children; we could go out and enjoy
ourselves and leave our children in the other’s
care. Our children grew up with the same
love for each other as though there were but
one mother. We studied each other’s comfort
and happiness, and few, indeed, were the hard
words between us, and our children never
quarreled; they were united, and they have
ever loved each other. All who became mem-
bers of the family observed the above rules.
As soon as our children could utter a prayer,
when old enough, they took their part in the
family devotion, both the boys and the girls.
We also taught our children the gospel of our
Lord and Savior according to St. Matthew, St.
Mark, St. Luke and St. John, and we teach
them to contend earnestly for the faith once
delivered to the Saints; not many faiths, many
times delivered, but the one.
	But I forget myself; I must not let my mind
run into doctrine in this article; I undertook
to tell you my experience in the Patriarchal
family relation; and when I tell mine, I tell
the experience of all true Latter-day Saints.
Yet it is all doctrine to me. What pertains to
this life affects the hereafter.
	When the family became large, each wife
had a home provided for herself and children.
I have a comfortable and happy home. I am
the mother of five children and twenty-two
grandchildren, and I rejoice in all the revealed
principles of life and salvation.
	So you see, dear reader, that the wives that
“choose the better part,” like Mary of old,
have that peace of mind that the world can
neither give, nor take away. They have no
desire to quarrel; they have confidence in their
husbands, and the husbands are true to their
wives, and their wives to them, in the marriage
relation. If they are not true to their covenants
that they make in the Lord, they forfeit their
wives and their standing in the Church. Those
who are cut off from the Church for ungodly
conduct are employed by officials to do wicked
and vile acts, and they have been known to


shoot down innocent men, and thus add another
sin to their doom; a sin that cannot be forgiven
in this world nor the world to come. Why?
because God had commanded him and he
obeyed. The man that was killed, or the man
that is deprived of his liberty for marrying
more wives than one, is only responsible to his
God, and not to his fellow man nor to his ex
post facto laws. The Latter-day Saints are on
a higher plane; they do not descend to the low
and grovelling passions that rule and govern
so many who wear the human form.
	If all are true to their God, then all work
together in unity, peace and love. But the
world sees not the true status of this peculiar
people. The scum will always rise to the top,
and this is always seen, and is not fit for use in
the kingdom of God; only fit to bring offences,
"But woe unto him by whom offences come,"
sayeth sacred writ. I have been a close ob-
server of these matters. They who oppose
this work, which is of God, are like the troubled
waters, casting up mire and dirt. Let the op-
poser take warning and cease.
			MARY ANN MERRILL PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Dec. 26, 1886.


