LITTLE HOUSEKEEPERS.

	In the large cities of the Union benevolent
ladies have established what are called "kitchen
gardens." That means a school where little
girls are taught to keep house. They are the
daughters of the very poor people, mostly
foreigners. Their mothers from over the sea
had frequently not any decent houses even to
live in, and so they knew nothing about our
kind of neat Yankee housekeeping.
	The ladies gather up the dirty, ragged,
hungry little girls from the streets and tene-
ment rooms where they live so wretchedly.
They are first bathed, scrubbed from head to
foot, combed, and then given some food. After
that they come every day to the housekeeping
school. They are given luncheon. The change
that takes place in them is wonderful. They
become neat, orderly and ladylike. They soon
begin to try to tidy up their wretched homes,
and in many instances whole families become
happier and more prosperous, just because the
little daughter goes to the kitchen garden.
	At the close of their school for the summer,
the girls have an exhibition showing what they
have learned. They have miniature tables,
tiny dishes and little beds and mattresses—all
the furniture and belongings of a house, and
with these they practice till they are first-class
workers and housekeepers.
	When they have finished the course of in-
struction, the children are given diplomas, and
are regular graduates. It is a very useful sort
of learning they have, too. A class graduated
in Chicago not long ago, whose exhibition the
newspaper men went to see. The class con-
sisted of twenty-four little girls, ranging in
age from 12 to 15, and representing almost
every European country. Their long white
pinafores, fluted muslin caps, and prim little
ties gave them an appearance that was very re-
freshing. They entered the room in single
file to a military march, carrying miniature
tables and boxes. In the latter were linen,
cutlery and small table furniture. Brought to
a halt, the teacher put the little housewives
through a catechism like this:
	"How often should a room be swept?"
	"Thoroughly once a week," answered a wee
bit of a Swede with a voice bigger than her-
self.
	"What kind of a broom is best for the cor-
ners and edges of a room?"
	"Whisk broom," sang out a maid with yellow
pig-tails, who seemed to be having her throat
sawed by the well laundried tie under her
chin.
	"Why is a dust rag better than a feather
duster?"
	"Because the feathers scatter the dust instead
of gathering it."
	"After this part of the programme the girls
took out their little table cloths, the piano
struck up a series of popular tunes, and the
board was spread beautifully.
	Before the beds were made the class had an
oral recitation, one question being: "What
three things are necessary for nice bed mak-
ing?" The answer being: "Level mattress,
smooth clothes and square corners. Then the
mattresses were whipped into shape, the pillows
knocked into form, and in an incredibly short
time every bed was flat and smooth, and the
children retired under a murmur of applause.
On their return they carried trays, with which
they went through a series of pretty maneu-
vers. Dishes were washed, and after the
place was "tidied up," brooms were used for
an exercise in calisthenics. The visitors ap-
plauded the neat and pretty girls and were de-
lighted.
	It takes two years to learn all the things in
the course. Cooking and laundry work are
part of it, and the girls learn to bake bread

[Column 2]

and cake, and iron muslin and laces that are
as beautiful as the prettiest picture.
	As soon as they get their diplomas there are
always ladies waiting to hire them to work.
Their teacher keeps a list of these, and they
go directly from the kitchen garden into good
places. They know all the branches of house-
keeping, so they can be cooks, laundress, cham-
bermaids, nurses, or dining room girls. They
also learn plain sewing. They get better
wages than ordinary houseworking girls can,
because they know their business so perfectly.
But that is always the way. They keep house
so nicely that it is like poetry to look at them
and their homes.
	No girl can get a diploma unless she under-
stands reading and writing and arithmetic. It
would be a good plan for rich girls to attend
such schools, too.—Ex.


[Column 1]

