EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since you made the request in the EXPON-
ENT that the sisters who had individual inter-
esting experience in the order of celestial, plural
marriage would write something concerning it

[Column 2]

that would tend to satisfy the inquiring minds
of the strangers traveling in our midst, I have
thought of giving my views on this important
subject.
	I entered into the order of plural marriage
twenty-three years ago. I was then a girl of
eighteen, and I believe I can truthfully say
that I have never had trials enough to make
me repent of the course then taken; on the
contrary, I must say that as years have in-
creased my faith has been strengthened, and I
have been able to see more and more the
beauty and benefit of this order.  But I will
tell you, kind readers, that I am not the first,
and as they say in the courts, "legal wife."
No; the man that I desired should be my com-
panion for time and eternity had already been
married for more than twenty years.  Some of
our readers may say, "Well, it cannot be so
much of a trial to enter in as the second wife
as it would be to the first." I will leave this 
to the reader's own opinion, as I consider that
only those who have had an experience are
capable of judging. I believe that all who
enter into this exalted order will have trials
sufficient, if they honestly desire to do right, to
cause them to seek unto the Lord for an in-
creased portion of His Spirit, which is the
only means that will truly smooth the rugged 
path. And I am convinced that even in 
monogamous marriage there are just as fre-
quently trials that can scarcely be borne with-
out faith to lean on the Lord; and I know
from my own experience, that the Lord takes
notice of the prayers of His faithful daugh-
ters.
	Undoubtedly there are many faithful sisters
in this Church, who can bear testimony that
this is true; but the strangers may say, "You
assert this, and I am not quite convinced of
its truth." I will cite you to the Bible, the
standard guide for all Christians. In Genesis,
21st chapter, 15th to 20th verses, we learn that 
the Lord sent His angel to Hagar, and he
spoke unto her words of comfort and consola-
tion; and God was with the lad, Ishmael, the
offspring of plural marriage.
	It appears, also, that the Lord took notice 
of the wives of Moses, for we read in the book
of Numbers, 12th chapter, that the anger of
the Lord was kindled against Miriam and
Aaron, because they had something to say
about Moses marrying an Ethiopia woman.
he (Moses) was evidently a polygamist, for we
read in Exodus, 2nd chapter, that he married
Zepporah, a daughter of the priest of Midian.
Now I will just mention one more instance,
where the Lord has heard and answered the
prayers of the plural wife.
	In the first book of Samuel, 1st chapter, we
read how the Lord heard and answerd the
prayers of Hannah, the wife of Elkanah, and
gave her a son, even the Prophet Samuel,
Now, I will briefly say, that although my path
may not have been strewn with roses, yet my
faith has continued to grow, and I can truly
say that there is not enough enticement in the
whole monogamous Christendom to induce me 
for one moment to give up my position as a
plural wife.
     And now, dear Editor, I pray God to bless
all the efforts you make to encourage truth
and to break down the errors that hold the
civilized world as in chains of iron.
	Yours truly,
		A PLURAL WIFE.
	Riverdale, Dec. 22, 1836.


The law was given to men, not to angels.—
Talmud.
	Tranquil pleasures last the longest; we are
not fitted to bear long the burden of great joys.
—Bovee.


