DEAR EXPONENT:
	We leave the snow sheds, at some of which
the section men tell us the snow is still thirty
feet deep. We wind around on the mountain,

[Column 2]

doubling on our track, going up aud down, but
still descending. We meet the western bound
train, and shortly after, looking out, we see it
traveling in the same direction as ourselves; it
turns a curve and is out of sight.
	Shirley, 12:30. Going down the cañon.
Poncha, 1 p.m. A lovely little valley and
pleasant little village. Salida, twenty minutes
for dinner; a nice little town, pleasantly situated.
A mining town, I should suppose, for there are
no gardens or trees, nor any sign of vegetation.
	3:30. Now we reach the Grand Cañon of
the Arkansas River. It is a dark, gloomy
gorge, with rocks towering to a great height
on either side. It is grand beyond description,
but my pen could not possibly convey an idea
of its appearance. Above us the jagged cliffs
and below us the roaring river. One moment
we are on trestle work, and the next turning a
curve so short that the engine looks as if it
would  meet the back end of the train. It
gives one a feeling of suspense to see how little
stands between us and eternity.
	Cañon City, 3:50.  Here we leave the Rocky
Mountains. The country is lovely as it meets
our view coming down the hill. One could
hardly imagine a lovelier view. The city is the
nicest I have seen since I left home; well laid
out with sidewalks and shade trees. Here the
country changes; the hills are solid piles of
white sandstone rising one above another. The
road passes between the rocks, which rise above
us on either side, and we see extensive stone
quarries, where people are working on the sides
of the hills with derricks and machinery for
moving the immense rocks which they quarry
for building or other purposes. There is some
picturesque scenery as we pass along. Occa-
sionally the ruins of an adobie house. Very
little population until we near the old town of
Pueblo, a town of considerable historical inter-
est for me, as here our Mormon Soldiers were
left when they could travel no further on that
long and memorable march, when they were
torn from their families to fight for the country
that was powerless or unwilling to protect
them. Here my husband staid with those
helpless ones, suffering from overwork, priva-
tion and disease.
	The town is a singular mixture of architec-
ture, from the cabins made by standing boards
or logs on end, and covering them with clay,
to immense brick houses, built in a square,
solid form, and having the same general ap-
pearance. It covers considerable country, but
I could gain no information, except what I saw
in passing. It is, however, different in style
from any city I have ever seen. Here we
change cars and take the Arkansas and Topeka
line. They are broad guage cars, but we miss
our chairs and are mixed up with strange peo-
ple. We feel this unpleasantly as we note the
appearance of some females who are drinking
beer and laughing and talking with loud voices.
	Thursday, April 16. 242 miles to Kansas
City, 6:30 a.m. How strangely everything
looks. No green trees, or fruit blossoms, or
fences or door yards. The town is called Nicker
sen, and is built entirely of frame or board
houses. Scarcely any farming is yet under
way.
	We made beds with our seats, and rested
some last night, though we were annoyed by
the conductor calling out to us the names of
the towns we passed. When we awoke this
morning the conductor told us we had got
down in God's country now. It struck me as
rather ludicrous. I told him we had just come
from God's country.  "Where was that?" "Up
in the tops of the Rocky Mountains." If God
did not own that country, I did not know who
did; I thought it was as near God as some of
us would ever get. Some one asked where we
were. "In sunny Kansas," was the reply. We
thought that a misnomer, for it was dark and
cloudy, and there was not a green tree, nor

[Column 3]

field of wheat, or lucern, or fruit blossom to be
seen.
	Hutchinson. A nice pleasant town, with
brick houses and broad streets; the door yards
are fenced, and there are some nice orchards.
It has a general business air, but no look of
spring. The general appearance of the coun-
try improves.
	Newton, 9 a.m. Twenty minutes for break-
fast. My watch is an hour too slow. I send
out for potatoes, but get none; pay twenty
cents for a cup of tea, and make a comfortable
breakfast; the rest of the company eat, and we
are all merry and hearty.


