CANDIES AND CREAMS.

	A cream made of confectioner's sugar is the
basis of uncooked candies. Take a good sized
bowl, and break into it the white of one, two
or more eggs, and add to it an exactly equal
quantity of cold water Then stir in confec-
tioner's sugar slowly until you have it stiff
enough to be moulded into shape by the fin-
gers. Flavor to taste with any essence liked
best. Vanilla is always safe. Mould the
paste into balls about the size of a large mar-
ble, or lozenge-shapes, and lay upon a platter
or waxed paper to dry.
	Flavor a part of the French cream made
with peppermint or winter-green essence to
taste, mould into lozenges, set to dry, and you
will have three varieties of candy finished.
Mould some of the cream flavored with vanilla
into balls about the size of a twenty-cent piece,
have ready some English walnuts, cracked
so as to divide nicely in halves, and press half
of the nut on each side of the ball of cream.
Set to dry, and they will be ready to eat in a
few hours.
	Chocolate creams are a favorite kind of
candy. To make, mould small bits of cone
shape, and set to dry. Melt some baker's
chocolate in a bowl set over a boiling tea-ket-
tle. When the creams are dry, take them one
by one on a hair pin or fork, and roll in the
melted chocolate until thoroughly coated. Set
aside to dry. Should the chocolate cool be-
fore you have finished, place over the tea-ket-
tle again, or better still, stand it while using in
a pan of hot water.
	Another delicious variety may be made by
working into the cream the juice and grated
rind of an orange. Should the juice make the
French cream too thin, add more sugar before
moulding into shape. Make into balls the size
of a hickory nut. Lemon creams may be made
in the same way, by substituting lemon juice
and rind for orange.
	Another kind of sweet is easily made by re-
moving the seeds from the nicest and freshest
of dates, and inserting in place of the seed a
long narrow roll of the French cream, and
closing the date over it. Fig creams may be
made in the same way, or by cutting the figs
into four or five length-wise strips, and insert-
ing them in a piece of the cream moulded in
an oblong shape, and then cut open and closed
over the fig.
	Most melting candies may also be made by
using fruit jellies and jam (especially currant
and plum jelly and berry jam) or pine-apple
preserves. Cut the fruit into small squares or
oblongs, and inclose it in a coating of the
cream; or make squares of the cream, and
press a small square of the jelly against it be-
fore drying. A tempting candy is made by
making the cream into cakes about half-an-
inch thick (which may be done with a rolling-
pin on a marble slab, or making it into a flat
ball, laying it on a platter, and patting it un-

[Column 2]

til of the right thickness. Make each bar
about three inches long, and spread with a
layer of jelly or jam; place on this another
layer of the cream, then a layer of the filling
and then one of the cream. Press well to-
gether, and set to dry. If desired, this candy
may be cut into squares. In either case trim
the edges smoothly with a sharp knife, so that
they may not have a ragged look.
	In making cocoanut creams use, if possible,
fresh cocoanut; if not, the best brand of desic-
cated. If fresh cocoanut is used, prepare it the
day before using. While mixing the French
cream, and before making it thick with the
sugar, stir in the cocoanut, then add more sugar,
and mould until the cream is stiff enough to
make into balls or cakes. If you like, some of
the creams may be colored pink, and then
rolled in grated cocoanut before set to dry.
These are very pretty-looking candies. Grated
maple sugar added to the French cream, and
moulded into squares, also make a toothsome
candy.
	A nut candy, which is a great favorite with
most children, is made by chopping several
kinds of nuts, say almonds, walnuts, and but-
ternuts, fine. Make a soft cream, and stir in
the nuts. Then add enough sugar to mould
into shape. Make into large squares or bars,
and wrap in waxed paper to keep fresh. Fruit
candy, which is not as rich as the nut candy,
is made in the same way. Currants, raisins
seeded figs, and a very small quantity of citron,
chopped together. make a very nice fruit mix-
ture to put with the French cream. Make in-
to balls; or use first a bar of the cream, then a
layer of the fruit, as in the jelly candies. If
you wish to color any of your candy brown,add
melted chocolate.
	Of boiled candies, perhaps none is liked so
well as molasses candy and molasses taffy. If
the following recipe is followed exactly, success
is promised every time. Two cups of sugar,
four cups molasses. Use the same sized cup to
measure both molasses and sugar. Two small
table-spoonfuls of butter, two table-spoonfuls
of glycerine. Put into a kettle, and boil fast
twenty-five minutes. Take care not to scorch.
At the end of the time for boiling, put a few
drops in cold water. If it hardens and is brit-
tle, remove from the stove. Have ready be-
fore the candy stops boiling pans thoroughly
buttered, and just before pouring into the pans
stir in one tea spoonful of cream of tartar.
After putting into pans, pour a few drops of
lemon or vanilla on top. When cool enough,
pull until white, and make into sticks. Half
this quantity will make enough for a small
family.
	Taffy is made by boiling hard one cup of
molasses, one cup of sugar, and a small table-
spoonful of butter. After boiling twenty
minutes, test by dropping a little in cold water.
If it is brittle, pour into buttered pans, and
mark into squares with the back of a case
knife.
	To make peanut candy, first prepare the
nuts by taking off the shells and the brown
skin that covers them. Then boil two cups of
molasses, one of brown sugar, a piece of butter
the size of a small egg, and a table spoonful of
vinegar. Boil until nearly brittle, place the
peanuts in a buttered pan, pour the candy over
them, and cut into squares or bars.
	Butter-scotch, the most powerful rival of
taffy, is made by using a coffee cup of brown
sugar, half a cup of water, and a desert-spoon-
ful of vinegar; also a piece of butter the size of
a hickory nut. Boil twenty minutes. Pour
into buttered pans, and cut into narrow strips,
	Chocolate caramels are as popular with
grown up children as taffy and butter-scotch
with little ones. To make them, use a cup of
molasses, a cup of brown sugar, a cup of milk,
and a small table-spoonful of butter. Add to
the ingredients a table spoonful of glycerine,
as in molasses candy. Let the mixture boil


fast for twenty minutes, and when nearly done
add a cup of grated chocolate. When nearly
brittle pour into buttered pans; crease in squares
with the back of a knife when nearly cold.
Flavor, if desired, in the same way as molasses
candy. If the flavor is put into the candy
while cooking, it is lost before the candy is
cold.
	A cooked French-cream candy, which is very
nice and more economical when eggs are scarce
than the uncooked cream, may be made by
using two cups of granulated sugar, half a cup
of hot water. Put the sugar and water into
a good tin basin, and let it boil ten minutes.
Then test by dropping some from the spoon.
If it draws into threads, take the pan from the
stove, and try rolling a spoonful into a ball. If
it is creamy and moulds easily, pour into a
bowl and flavor. If it will not cream when
first taken from the stove, boil two or three
minutes longer. After it is poured into the
bowl, beat rapidly with a large spoon until it
all creams. This cream may be rolled or cut
with a knife into any shape desired, and be
used as the foundation of many kinds of can-
dies, in the same way as the uncooked cream.
If in working the cream gets too cold, set the
bowl in a pan of hot water.—Mrs. Henry
Brown in Cosmopolitan.


