EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	If you will accept them I would like to write
you a few lines concerning my dear mother, Sister
Ann Jenkins, who passed suddenly and peacefully
away on the evening of the 13th of Nov., 1886.
I desired to do so sooner, but sickness and other
causes have prevented.
	She was a faithful mother in Israel, and as such
I think worthy of mention in our EXPONENT
which she highly valued and diligently read and
from whose columns she derived much pleasure.
She, like many other faithful women in Zion, passed
through many trials and scenes of suffering, which
are known to none but God and their own hearts.
She was well known as an exceeedingly patient


woman, duty was always a first consideration with
her, and one of her earliest teachings which I can
remember was, “It is better to suffer wrong than
to do wrong.” She accepted plural marriage
early in her life with submission and thankful-
ness, and taught her children with earnestness to
respect and revere that sacred principle. I never
heard one doubting word pass her lips in regard
to the truth of this work to which she was devoted.
She was a careful economical and industrious
house-keeper, and although her children have
been for some time all married, yet her fingers
were ever busy knitting and stitching for her
grandchildren (thirteen of them) whom she dearly
and impartially loved, indeed on the day she died
she took care of the youngest of them for two
hours and she was stitching on a little dress about
twenty minutes before she expired. Her hus-
band was sitting by her; she had lain aside her
work and was reading the evening paper when
she fell forward at his feet and showed no sign of
life after. Her face wore a pleasant peaceful ex-
pression. Her life was one of unassuming merit
and fruitful with quiet acts of kindness. Although
we miss her gentle presence, her words of loving
advice and her sweet and blessed influence, yet
we are reconciled and would not recall her, for we
know all is well with her and she is free from the
suffering and cares which we are left to contend
with. In her life, we her children, have a noble ex-
ample to emulate. 
