PRIMARY CONFERENCE AND FAIR.

	On Saturday morning of Oct. 23d, 1886, the
members of the Primary Association of Lehi
City, held their yearly conference. Present on
the stand were Bishop T. R. Cutler, A. K. 
Smoot, Stake President, R. Standring, Assist-
ant to Stake President, C. Ball, President of
1st District, E. Smuin, of 3rd District, and
Sister Thomas.
	After the usual opening exercises, the
minutes of last conference were read and ap-
proved; also the statistical and financial re-
ports. The programme consisted of recitations,
essays, songs, questions and answers. Miss
Jezell Gibb gave a recitation refering to the
brethren in prison, which was so well recited
as to cause many to drop a tear.
	President A. K. Smoot being the first speaker,
stated that the mothers could not but realize
that great credit was due to those who had been
training these children; the Primary was doing
a great work.
	Bishop T. R. Cutler was the next speaker;
was well paid for coming; the singing had
been very good. Exhorted all to attend their 
choir meetings.
	President R. Standring said the time had
been well spent; it would not be wise to detain
the children longer.
	E. Smuin endorsed the remarks that had
been made by the former speakers. Benedic-
tion by Isaac Fod.
	The officers then made their way to Sister 
Conner's, where tables were spread with a
sumptuous repast.

FAIR.
	At one o'clock the fair was opened, and the
pleasant sight that attracted your gaze on the
right was a table filled with cookery, home-
made candies, etc. Farther up was a great
display of agriculture; also a number of bot-
tles filled with different varieties of fruit, to
be donated to the Deseret Hospital. On the
left was the needle work of the little girls—
quilts, tidies, mats, knitting and other varieties,
showing what their busy little fingers could ac-
complish. Some of the cookery was sold, and
the means thrown into the treasury to help
meet expenses.
		SARAH A. BALL, Secretary.


To rule without regard, to urge without rea-
son, and to laugh immoderately, are manifest
signs of ignorance.—W. Bellenden.
	Who could live surrounded by calamities,
did not smiling hope cheer him with expecta-
tion of deliverance?—J. Hamilton.
	Law is like a sieve; it is very easy to see
through it, but a man must be considerably re-
duced before he can get through it.—G. S.
Morton.
	The aggregate happiness of society, which is
best promoted by the practice of a virtuous
policy, is or ought to be the end of all govern-
ment.—Washington.


