FOREIGN LETTER.

	HONOLULU, Nov., 23rd 1886.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We came here about a week ago to witness
the grand festivities which were to commence
on the King's fiftieth birthday, Nov. 16th, and
extend over a period of two weeks. We came
in a drizzle, and the drizzle has since turned
into long unvarying rain. Sometimes it has
really poured down in tiny streams. The
grand celebration has turned out into a grand
failure. What may be done when it stops
raining can only be conjectured.
	You see there was to be, beside the recep-
tion and fireworks on the 16th, a regatta, a
grand ball, an historical procession, historical
tableaux for evening, a magnificent feast etc.,
etc., ad lib.
	We have witnessed the fireworks and proces-
sion, but were disappointed therein. I have
seen better fireworks in the city, and the pro-
cession far excelled by some of our "twenty-
fourth" affairs.
	The rain has kept everybody indoors. And
I am inclined to think, from personal observa-
tions, that everybody's temper has not been 
bettered thereby.
	Last Sunday, after being shut up in the
house for nearly a week; we managed to get
across the yard into the meeting house and
enjoyed meeting with the native saints. Mon-
day morning according to a previous appoint-
ment, Brothers Wm. King and J. F. Gates
went to the Palace to present the set of ele-
gantly bound Church works which the Laie

[Column 2]

people had purchased for the occasion. They
were shown up stairs, and into an immense
hall, the walls hung with beautiful pictures
and the heavy doors elegantly carved and
polished. A smaller hallway led to the room
occupied by the King, where the books were
presented with a few appropriate remarks by
Elder J. F. Gates. This room was gorgeous
beyond description, and walls and furniture
showy with glossy peacock blue satin hung
with golden rods.
	The whole inside of the Palace is said to be
magnificiently gorgeous, furnished with a true
savage love of all that is gaudy and brilliant.
But everything is certainly genuine if gaudy,
for the building cost over four hundred and
fifty thousand dollars.
	The afternoon of the King's birthday, the
"populace" were allowed to go through the
lovely rooms; but as I had the baby I did not
attempt it; I hope to, however, before return-
ing to Utah, and if so I shall try and give you 
some idea of the place.
	Sunday evening I persuaded the brethren
to go down to Fourth Street Church, where the
music is beautiful. But on arriving there,
after our long walk in the mud and dark, be-
hold there were no services.
	We started back, but stopped in front of the
Chinse Christian Church, and decided to enter.
The hall was spacious and well lighted, with
wooden seats and a pulpit at one end, with a
gallery for the singers at the opposite end.
	There were only a few present, but they
seemed very devout, reading their bibles, which
were plentifully strewed all along on the
benches.
	The services commenced with an old fash-
ioned tune to Chinse words. We looked very
curiously up at the row of Chinse girls and
boys in the singers' gallery who nearly all
seemed full of the suppressed merriment of
youth under like circumstances. The singing
was very fresh and clear and much like our
own country choirs. The funny hair-dressing
of the women is growing upon my eyes. And
indeed I am beginning to be able to see some
attraction in these bland smiling celestial faces,
especially when young and fresh.
	The preacher or pastor then offered up
a prayer. Another song followed, the organ
trying in vain to keep the congregation some-
where in its own key. This over, the pastor
opened his bible, and read a chapter as his
text, A young Chinse across the aisle, direct-
ly handed us a couple of English bibles opened
to a chapter in Matthew. We were pleased to
read along in our own tongue. A short ser-
mon followed on the text, the deep musical
tones of the speaker, and strange unknown
sounds of the Chinse tongue, all contributed
to render sounder the inevitable nap of one of
our members. However, the choir soon woke
him up with its closing hymn, and a short
prayer dismissed us to our homes in peace.
	The pretty bias-eyed girls peeped down at
us from the gallery, and we frankly looked up.
Then out again on the muddy, dark streets,
and we reached home all right at last.
	It is still raining. Goodness only knows
when we'll get back to Laie for our best horse
has fallen seriously lame.
	Please give my best love to all my friends
in the city.
	Yours as ever,
