		SARAH B. LAYTON.

	At a recent meeting of the Relief Society of American
Fork, a committee was appointed to draft Resolutions of
Respect and condolence to the memory of our dear friend
and sister, Alice Greenwood, First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, who died at this place Nov.
13th, 1886, after a lingering illness of nearly two years,
which she bore with great faith and fortitude, manifesting
throughout a strong reliance on the promises of the Lord
made to the faithful; her mind was clear to the end, and
her faith in the Gospel bright and unwavering, and when
her vitality was exhausted, she sweetly fell asleep without
a struggle, thus fulfilling the promise, that to the righteous
death is sweet. Sister Greenwood has been identified with
the Relief Society since its organization, and has been a
great comfort and support to the President in her capacity
of Counselor. She was among the early Saints who were
compelled to flee from Nauvoo, having at that time three
small children. She endured many privations incident to
the journey. She came to Salt Lake City in the second
company of 1847, resided four years in the city, and then
removed with her family to American Fork, which she
assisted in founding, and has been affectionately associated
with the interests of that place up to the time of her
demise. She was the mother of fourteen children, twelve
of whom she saw honorably married, one having died in
infancy, and one while on a mission to help the emigration
across the plains.
	The funeral was held on the 15th inst., at the meeting
house, when, notwithstanding the extreme severity of the
weather, there was a large attendance. The body was
borne to the meeting house by her seven sons and five son-
in-laws, followed by the family, and accompanied by the
Relief Society in procession, and numerous friends. Words
of comfort and consolation were given to the mourners by
the brethren who took part in the services.
	The following resolutions were unanimously adopted by
the Relief Society:
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father to call to a
higher sphere our beloved sister, Alice Greenwood, there-
fore, be it 
	Resolved, That we, the Relief Society of American Fork,
do sincerely mourn the loss of our beloved sister, and feel
to tender our sympathy and condolence to the husband
and numerous relatives who are called upon to lay down
an affectionate wife and mother, and with them we ac-
knowledge the hand of an Almighty God in our bereave-
ment; and;
	Resolved, That we do fully appreciate her services, and
her untiring devotion as a co-laborer, as worthy of respect
and emulation; and,
	Resolved, That we recognize in the death of our sister
the loss of a faithful and efficient officer of our Society; but
we feel comforted in the assurance that she enjoys the rest
of the faithful, and we look forward to the time when the
grave will give up its dead, and a reunion take place with
those we love, when earth will be purified and become the
glorious home of the redeemed.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be placed
upon our records, that one be tendered the bereaved family,
and one sent to the EXPONENT for publication.
		CHARLOTTE SHELLEY,
		ELLEN D. CLARKE,
		JEMIMA DURRANT,
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Committee.

	Another soul has gone to rest,
		Another faithful spirit flown;

[Column 3]

	Gone now to dwell among the blest,
		Where there's no grief nor sorrow known.

	Not alone a lasting memory
		Will her faithful deeds procure,
	But in God's celestial mansion,
		Eternal recompense is sure.

	Though hard it seems to part with friends,
		Yet we've the sweet assurance given,
	That ties so dear we form on earth,
		Will reunite in heaven.

