THE NEW YEAR.

     How little any of us know, unless by the spirit
of prophecy at the commencement of a new year,
what awaits us, or our friends, or our people, ere
the year shall draw to a close.  Standing upon the
threshold of this new year, it is easy to see what
barriers have been thrown up in the past one to
environ about the Lrtter-day Saints, and to hinder
their temporal and financial progress.  But the
spiritual advancement, these foes to the Saints
cannot stay in its onward march; that is not in
their power.  They cannot curtail the freedom of
the soul, not even when the body is incar-
cerated in prison; of this there has been abund-
ant proof during the year now just drawn to a
final close.  The work they now seek to destroy is
still marching forward gloriously, notwithstanding
the many obstacles thrown in the way.  Faith in
God, humility and patience will overcome and the
right will triumph, though the storm of hate and
error may rage fiercely and the days and times
grow darker still in the near future.  Though much
has transpired during the year that is past and
gone that may with all propriety be called perse-
cution, yet the enemy has not accomplished that
which was anticipated; the Lord has taken charge
of His chosen servants who are in exile, who stand
as pillars in the structure of the Church, and has
preserved them in safety, if not in peace, and not
a hair of their heads has been harmed.  To be
sure one of the apostles was taken but that very
thing has preached the Gospel and taught the
principle of plural marriage in the highest court
of the country, and in this the hand of the Al-
mighty is plainly visible, in that the Judges of that 
Court are left without excuse.
     In view of the great good being done by the
persistent persecution and oppression of this peo-
ple in several directions, perhaps after all there is
more reason to rejoice than to mourn, for many of
those whose faith was waning have wakened up
and are growing brighter and more earnest in
their endeavors to live their religion.  Union is
increasing and there seems to be less fault-finding
than in the days of prosperity.  No doubt the
tendency of the weekly prayer meetings has
helped to produce this effect, and the people really
feel, taken as a whole, the necessity of leaning
upon the Lord more on account of being deprived
of the constant advice and suggestions of the
Presidency of the Chcrch. It is very apparent
that Mormonism is coming to be better understood,
because of the opposition.  It causes people to
read and enquire who never would have thought
seriously of the matter, had it not been so loudly
proclaimed against, and the very persons who are
doing their utmost to tear in pieces the Church
and its institutions, are, by their vehemence and
animosity, spreading the truth.  And though it is
not expected all who hear will believe, yet the
Gospel must be sounded to all nations and the
opposition are paving the way for the Elders and
Church literature to reach a greater number than
could otherwise have been aroused to read and

[column 2]
hear.  That this year will be fraught with great
interest to this people no one can doubt who has
studied the prophecies concerning the latter day
work.  The one thing all should endeavor to do
is to prepare himself or herself for the day that is
coming, lest he or she be taken unawares.
     The events transpiring among the nations are
indicative of strife and rebellion.  The tendency
to monopolies is arousing the working people,
who are contributors to wealth, and the inattention
of those in power to redressing grievances and
suppressing wrongs that exist is a continual source
of agitation and will tend, at least, to uprisings
among a class who will be defiant and perhaps
cruel, the rumblings and mutterings one hears
from time to time in reference to these matters
ought to be remedied if possible to avert such a
terrible calamity as a serious outbreak would be
to this nation.  The people of the United States
have a great deal to say about the majority ruling
but if the matter at issue of Labor vs. Capital
were to be tested it would be found that labor was
the vast majority.
     A sort of co-operative labor system, such as
might be inaugurated by men of influence, would
do much toward bettering and elevating the work-
ing classes, and confidence might be created, and
a better and broader humanity be the rule, instead
of the exception.  If men of great personal and
public ability would pattern after Brigham Young
and the Mormons, instead of Jay Gould and rail-
road magnates, they might become public benefac-
tors, and receive the prayers and the blessings of
the laborer, instead of his deep muttered curses.
     The love of money and display, the luxuriance
that is the outgrowth of these two propensities, is
detrimental to the best interests of any community,
and these are growing stronger and spreading in
America.  The Lord is not pleased with those 
who selfishly aggrandize themselves to the exclu-
sion of the higher and nobler sentiments and
attributes that benefit all mankind, and He has
never yet prospered a nation for any great length
of time that gave itself up to the abandon of
wealth and pleasure seeking and extravagance.
In all the revelations given to the Latter-day
Saints, the observance of the rules of strict
economy has been enjoined upon them, and the
preservation of health and prolongation of human
life; and luxuriant living is the very opposite.
Excess of amusements and late hours, with the
consequent results, are in their tendency de-
moralizing, and should be discountenanced by all
those who are aiming for moral and social purity,
and the development of the higher and nobler at-
tributes of head and heart.
    It is to be hoped that in the year now opening
up great progress may be made in Zion, spiritual,
mental and moral, as well as temporal, and that
the oppressor’s chains may be broken, the prison
doors be opened, and the captive, Imprisoned for
conscience’ sake, go forth free and unmolested.
And with the most earnest prayer for all who suf-
fer persecutions, and for all the tried and sorrow-
ful ones, let the prayers of the faithful Saints as-
cend day and night, that all may go on to perfec-
tion, and arrive at the unity of the faith.  And
coupled with this wish, the EXPONENT extends
congratulations of the season and a happy new
year to all.
		“What thou hast in store
		   This coming year I do not stop to ask;
		Enough, if day by day there dawns before
		   Me my appointed task."


[column 1]
EVAN STEPHENS' SINGING CLASSES.
	For some years a great deal has been said
about Bro. Stephens' wonderful faculty for teach-
ing singing, and it is well known that his efforts
in behalf of the youth of Zion have already been
attended with the best success, "though the half
﻿
[column 2]
has not been told." The greatest work, however,
in this direction, is probably still in the future as
he has already laid a substantial foundation on
which to build a musical structure, and among the
youth of Zion he has all the good material neces-
sary for the fine work he has undertaken. The
public has heard through the daily papers some of
his plans now in progress in regard to the training
of "our boys and girls," being much interested in
the cultivation of music, and especially the human
voice, we have watched from time to time the
course Bro. Stephens has pursued and noticed his
desire to perform public service in his particular
line of work and we feel an intense interest in the
matter.
The writer had the pleasure of meeting Bro.
Stephens in Boston at the New England Con-
servatory of music last winter, and found he had
won the admiration of his fellow students as a 
musical genius, as well as by his genial manners
even though he was known to be a "Mormon."
At his invitation and in his company we attended
one of the entertainments given by the students, and
saw the magnificent new hall beautifully illumin-
ated, and listened to the cultivated voices of the
young men and women, who make music a pro-
fession. In the midst of the enjoyment of the
hour our thoughts wandered back to Zion, and we
could not help feeling that we had as good ma-
terial here as was gathered there, or even better,
and that the future would develop here at home,
melody of voices that would fill the sacred tem-
ples, tabernacles and halls of Zion with vocal
music of the highest type.
But to accomplish this the student must be in-
terested in the work as well as the teacher. It is
impossible to perform a labor of this kind without
united effort, and to cultivate a taste for music and
develop the voices of the young will tend to refine-
ment and social elevation of character.
Bro. Stephens has kindly favored us with a few
items that the readers of the EXPONENT may per-
haps use to advantage in aiding him by their in-
fluence in the generous labor he has striven so
industriously to perform.
Brother Stephens has at present the following
classes: First, one of one hundred children both
sexes reading music from the notes and learning
chorus singing. Second, one of twenty-five ad-
vanced children students studying solo singing
and advanced reading. Third, about 100 just 
starting to read music and part singing. Fourth,
five hundred children selected from Sunday School
to learn alto to Sunday School pieces. This class
is taught free. There is also a class of about fifty
young men and young women at the the Deseret
University studying vocal music and how to teach
it in the public schools and elsewhere.
An evening class, numbering over 100 young
men and young women, studying classic music and
opera, in connection with advanced reading and
expression, etc., and a class of adults just starting
to read music. The  school teachers of 
the country also receive some instructions in read-
ing and how to teach.
Another large class for the purpose of teaching
all the brethren attending the Sunday Schools
of the city to sing tenor and bass, is shortly to be
organized. The whole now numbering something
over a thousand. The children of widows and
those in poor circumstances are always received
and made welcome to Bro. Stevens' reading
classes, free of charge, and quite a number attend.
He has in mind the establishing of a fund to aid
in giving such permanent instruction in classes,
and also free scholarships to such as show
great talent and deserve special recognition of
their efforts to study. Some concerts will be given
between now and Spring in order to raise means 
for this object. An afternoon class for ladies 
only is to be organized early in this year.
Bro. Stephens earnest and ardent desire is to
lay a foundation for the future musical progress


of teaching the youth of Zion, how to be practi-
cal musicians. Like many other professional
men, he needs encouragement, and enthusiastic,
as well as practical support from the community
in which he is so preservingly laboring to promote
a public interest in musical culture. Bro. Stephens
sometimes feels he has to almost force his labors
upon the people, although personally he is treated
in the kindliest manner, but to make his labors
effective of the best results and his own strength
and endurance lasting, to accomplish a noble work
ia this department of culture, he should, most cer-
tainly, receive the hearty cooperation of those
who desire to see the youth of this people elevated
to the highest rank in all that will tend to build
up and glorify Zion. To teach children is not the
easiest task, and there are but few musical men
who have the adaptability or the patience to un-
dertake, or at any rate, continue as Bro. Stephens
has done. In this particular he stands almost
alone, and should be fully appreciated. An old
saying “poets are born not made,” will as aptly ap-
ply to musicians and teachers for although much
may be acquired yet one must have natural gifts to
succeed to any marked extent. Those who are inti-
mately acquainted with Bro. Stephens will probably 
agree in saying, that he was born with a wonderful
talent for music, and he certainly possesses a rare
faculty of adaptability for teaching. Men of his
type incline to melancholy if not given encourage-
ment and support, and when one considers how
few there are who have the ability and the dispo-
sition to do so magnificent a work, it seems in-
credible that people should not enthusiastically 
appreciate the undertaking.


