A NEW YEAR'S VISIT.

	In staid old New England, New Year's Day
is observed with considerable enthusiasm. Of
late years it has been and is customary to re-
ceive calls, but in the country villages, the
same simple habits prevail as formerly. I speak
from experience.
	There is no place on earth more beautifully
quiet, orderly and pleasant than an old
fashioned country home, and on New Year's
Day there is always good cheer and welcome
greetings for all. Friendly neighbors, with
glad faces, exchange brief visits and allude
to current topics, and everywhere plenty and
cheerfulness abound. The tables are loaded
with well cooked viands, and the great fires of
pine knots still glow upon the hearthstone and
cast the flickering shadows upon the dimly
lighted walls at eventide.
	To be sure the improved methods of heating
by means of radiators, etc., are in vogue in the
country places, but the real New Englander
always has one room "with rights reserved"
for a fireplace in which to burn the pine knots
on special occasions. Sitting by a fire of this
sort, with the smell of the woods around you,
for there is invariably the pine and hemlock
boughs hung in nooks and corners, one can
better recall the happy past and tell over again
the tales of other days, than in a room warmed
with steam and radiant with the light from
gas jets.
	No matter how good the bank account may
be of these country gentle folks, the same
primitive simplicity still characterizes many of
their homes, and in the rooms where the family
gatherings are held on Thanksgiving and New
Year's evenings, after the dinner has been
served, there is still a remnant, at least, of the
furniture of the olden time. Occasionally one
finds the "settle," on which six or seven people
may sit comfortably. They were invented in
the early days for ease and practical use, and
were found in the great kitchens and living
rooms, a century or more ago, and were in
keeping with the large wide open fire-places,
where our great-grandmothers used to roast
their turkeys and geese, and even young pigs,
on festive occasions, hung up before the fire
and turned round and round and "properly
basted," with a pan underneath on the hearth
to catch the gravy. They had not the modern
labor-saving contrivances in those days that we
have now in the poorest homes, and the great
wonder is how those dear old souls managed to
get through so much work. I have rattled on
so that I forgot to finish describing a "settle."
They are straight backed and very high, almost
like a partition, and perfectly solid. The
arms at each end are wide enough to set a
basket of fruit or a pitcher of cider, and the
seat has lids to lift up, in sort of sections all
the way along, in which nuts and apples are
kept for the winter evening's refreshments, in-
stead of going into the cellar or pantry to fetch
them.
	Every sort of quaint, old-time furniture is
brought out and displayed with a great deal of
pride since the centennial celebration.  In a
number of houses, where I visited last winter,

[Column 2]

I saw very queer old-style articles, gilded, orna-
mented and decorated with ribbons and trim-
mings. This rage for the antique is carried to
a foolish extreme, but the custom of sitting by
a fire of pine knots on a winter evening is sug-
gestive of stories, legends and ballads, such as
we all love to listen to at times, forgetting,
meantime, the eares and drudgery of the work-
a-day world. It is good to have such seasons of
enjoyment, and the simple pastimes, that
brought no undue excitement, are still in-
dulged in "away up in the country," and the
actual game of "fox and geese" on a board
marked off with chalk, and played with grains
of corn, is still played, occasionally, with the
same enthusiasm as it was hundreds of years
ago.
	To go back again after forty years of Western
life and meet with old friends, gives one a very
peculiar feeling. In some respects great
changes have taken place, and again, some
things never seem to have changed at all. Last
year I spent both Christmas and New Year's
in good old Massachusetts. Christmas in one
small factory town, and New Year's in another.
It was like going over some old romance, and-
I fairly reveled in the delight of meeting with
and visiting loved ones from whom I had been
so long and widely separated; and in going
over the scenes of childhood's days, there were
many things to tell, and no end of explana-
tions to be made, and questions to be answered,
and yet on Christmas and New Year's we
talked of the same themes and told the "old,
old stories" over again, and sung snatches of
love songs and ditties without meaning, just as
of yore, and to hear us, one would have sup-
posed we were the same glad, happy children,
except for the quiver in our voices, who clus-
tered round the family hearthstone more than
forty years ago; but had a true vision of the
olden time and of now been presented, what a
strange contrast the two pictures would have
made.
	One would be of a group of a dozen or
more around a clean-swept hearth, with a
bright, glowing wood fire, the mother wearing
a smile of sweet contentment, and the children
ranging from eighteen and twenty down to
"wee little ones;" boys and girls with bright,
happy faces, on which no cloud or shadow
seemed to have fallen. The room, long and
low, the walls of oak wood, paneled, carved
and smoothly polished; no ornaments, scarcely,
except the festooning of evergreen and hemlock
boughs. The chairs, spindle-legged and straight
backed, make one tired to look at them. A
long settee, with rockers, and half a dozen
children sitting in it—though one end is used
exclusively for baby's cradle. The children
teasing the mother or older sisters for stories,
and the young people too much occupied in
singing songs, telling riddles and conundrums
to notice the little ones. Who would think, in
looking at this gathering, that in a few years
the inmates would be scattered far and wide,
and never again sit by the same hearthstone,
and some never look into the faces of those so
near and dear—their very own "kith and kin."
Yet so it was; and so it is in this changeful life
with many a one. The old home! the memory
of it clings to us as long as we live, especially
if it be a home in the country—the orchards,
the pastures, the lanes, the groves, the brooks
the ponds, and above all the woods, haunt us in
dreams and meditative moments forever. The
thoughts aud feelings associated with the places


where we have roamed and the scenes through
which we have passed in tender years are all
too deeply engraven ever to be eradicated.
Bryon, in "The Dream," says, and truthfully,
too, what it seems to me applies to the beauti-
ful past as well, childhood's hours particularly:

	"They have a weight upon our waking thoughts,
	They take a weight from off our waking toils;
	They do divide our being; they become
	A portion of ourselves, as of our time;
	They pass like spirits of the past—they speak
	Like sybils of the future; they have power—
	The tyranny of pleasure and of pain;
	They make us what we were not—what they will,
	And shake us with the vision that's gone by."

	The other picture is of New Year's Eve,
1885, and a day of 1886, and is, indeed, not a 
shadow, but profound reality.
	It is almost like revisiting another world to
go back to the scenes of one's childhood after
more than forty year's absence. Meeting and
embracing brothers and sisters, whom one can-
not recognize, the feeling is a strange one in-
deed. There is something decidedly pitiful
in meeting those of one's own immediate family
and not knowing a feature or a tone of the
voice, though it does come back to you after-
wards, little by little. To be viewed from top
to toe, and every feature scanned critically,
and then to be told "You are not a bit like
yourself," is almost as comical as Mother
Goose's version of the little old woman who
was so bewildered and dazed that she ex-
claimed, "Lauk a mercy on me, this surely
can't be I."
	New Year's Eve I sat and watched the old
year out and new year in with my sister and
her husband in a cosy parlor in New England,
profusely decorated with fresh flowers,and ever-
greens from the pine woods near by. We
three sat around the fire together, as we three
shall never meet again in this life. We chatted
of the old and the new, the old Yankee cus-
toms and the new Western habits.
	How widely different the lives of those reared
under the same roof often are in their experi-
ences and development. How tame the lives
of some, how tempestuous those of others. Like
the ships that sail out on the great ocean, some
glide smoothly over, almost without an effort,
others encounter severe storms, and are tossed
about and beaten hither and thither.
	We talked of the past and the future, of our
strange meeting now, and of that other meet-
ing and greeting in the hereafter. New Year's
Day we called on dear friends of my sister's,
and some schoolmates of mine, who were per-
fectly familiar with my name, invariably call-
ing me "Emmie," and telling me incidents I
could not recall. There were real cousins, too,
whom I had never even seen, who furnished
me with historical data and stories of our fore-
fathers and foremothers, the half of which,
though it  was  told me, I cannot remember.
One thing I never shall forget—the perfume
of the pine and hemlock woods, through which
we drove, though it was the dead of winter,
and the ground white with snow, nor the sweet,
pale face of my darling sister, and the heavy
masses of her silvery silken hair, as she sat
and talked to me of our blessed mother and
the old, old home, of those that had gone, and
others who are scattered east and west, and of
the time when we should meet again, where
there will be no more sad partings.
