OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Kaysville, Nov. 8th, 1886, Alice Ellison, wife
of John Ellison, of consumption. Deceased was born at
Waddington, Yorkshire, England, Nov. 25th, 1820. Was
baptized in July; 1838, by H. C. Kimball. Emigrated to
Nauvoo in the spring of 1841; shared in the persecutions in
common with the Saints; crossed the plains in 1852; settled
in Kaysville, Davis Co., Utah, 1853. She was the mother
of eleven children, seven of whom still live to mourn her
loss. She suffered much pain during her last sickness; she
was confined most of the time to her room nine weeks pre-
vious to her death. Her family were kind and loving, and
rendered her every assistance in the hour of affliction.
Sister Ellison was President of the Teachers in the Relief
Society from their organization; was always at the meet-
ings whenever her health would permit. She was truly an
example to her sisters with whom she met from time to
time. She often bore a faithful testimony to this great
work, and the Prophet Joseph Smith as being a man of

[Column 2]

God. Her faith in the Gospel was firm and unshaken up
to the last time she ever spoke to the sisters: she was full
of the Spirit of God, and bore a faithful testimony, and
said she knew that this work in which we were engaged
was the work of God, and that the Saints, if they proved
faithful, would overcome the world. The same day, in
private conversation, she said she felt she had not done her
duty in bearing her testimony to the truth of celestial
marriage. She said she knew that principle was as just
and true as any other principle which had been revealed 
from heaven, "and it cannot be doubted." She felt glad
that she had lived in that principle for a number of years.
She has gone to a higher sphere, and to mingle with those
that have gone before, yet her memory will still live in the
hearts of the sisters of the Relief Society. She leaves a
husband, seven children, twenty-eight grandchildren and
nine great-grandchildren to mourn her loss. Rest in
peace, dear sister, until we meet again, when our parting
will be no more.
