R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A REPORTS.
		TOOELE STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The quarterly conference of the R. S., Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A. Associations of the Tooele
Stake was held in the Grantsville meeting
house, Dec. 11th and 12th, 1886, commencing
Saturday at 10 a.m., Mrs. Mary A, Hunter
presiding. After the opening exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, Sisters Minerva W. Snow and
Elizabeth Howard, who were here from Salt
Lake City, addressed the meeting.
	Sister Howard was the first speaker, and
gave very good instructions to the sisters, both
old and young, in her usual good way, and in
that good spirit that comes from every true
Latter-day Saint.		
Sister Minerva Snow spoke to the sisters in a
kind and motherly way, that will encourage
all who desire to do the will of God and keep
His commandments, and Sister Ann Tate gave
a verbal report of the Tooele Relief Society,
as Prest. Delamare was not in attendance. The
choir sang, and meeting was dismissed by Bro.
Wm. Rydalch.
	In the afternoon Primary Conference con-
vened, at which there was a large attendance,
Sister Sarah Hale presiding. The children
gave, in a very creditable manner, songs, recita-
tions and essays, and Sisters Minerva W. Snow
and Elizabeth Howard instructed the children
to obey their parents, and not forget their
prayers, and they would grow up to be good
men and women in the kingdom of God.
	On Saturday Evening the Young Ladies
held their Conference. After the usual opening
exercises, reading of reports, etc., Sister Tate
reported the Tooele Y. L. M. I. A. in not so
good a condition as it should be, but they had
started to meet again.
	Miss Melinda McBride gave a report of the
Grantsville Y. L. M. I. A. It was in a good
condition. Met in Conjoint session once in two
weeks, and had very interesting meetings. 
Sister Howard and M. W. Snow again ad-
dressed the meeting, and encouraged the young
people to do right and live up to their privil-
eges.
Bro. Wm. Collet endorsed the remarks of
the sisters, and said he had been very much
interested in the good instructions, and desired
to do the will of God at all times.
	Singing by the choir. Benediction by Bro.
Alma Hale.
	On Sunday morning the sisters from the city
attended Sunday School.  At the close of the
exercises, the sisters spoke in a very able man-
ner on the principles of the Gospel; encouraged
the children in attending Sunday School, and


to keep the Sabbath day holy. The sisters
also met with the meeting in the afternoon, and 
gave much good instruction to all present.
	ANN TATE, Cor. Sec. of Stake.


