VARIOUS QUALIFICATIONS. 	

	Once in a while, even if very busy, random
suggestions will shoot across one's mind, that
are, perhaps, worthy of note.
	It has occurred to me many times how gener-
ally the plain qualifications of every day use-
fulness are neglected in the education of young
persons; mothers doing themselves many ordin-
ary duties because they can perform them bet-
ter and quicker than their daughters, and can-
not spare time to instruct them in these mat-
ters. I have seen a delicate lady, the mother
of eleven children, beautifully darning the
stockings for her grown up daughters, while
they were practising their music lessons. I
wanted to express myself, but had to "hold in,"
as I was not on sufficiently intimate terms to
take such a liberty.
	I often ask myself, "Why should a girl
marry until she knows something of house-
keeping? I know of young wives who have
wasted enough bread in their first year of
housekeeping to have fed them another year;
bread that was quietly conferred to the pail at
the back door for a neighbor's pig. Why
should a girl hire out and receive good wages,
when she is unqualified to cook a plain meal
There are laboring men who work hard, and

[Column 2]

furnish abundance for the pantry, yet never
see a well kept table. They will sit down op-
posite a pretty face, with carefully prepared
banged hair, and eat burned up meat, soggy
potatoes and yellow biscuit. I know of one
good natured man, who hands his beloved sixty
dollars a month to provide for the house. He
sees no end of flounces and embroideries, but
is ashamed to open his dinner pail before his
fellow workmen. I regard him as one of the
martyrs, who live unpraised, and will bear up-
on his headstone no record of his cross and
heroism.
	There seems, after all, to be in this earthly
economy a beautiful adaptation of natures,
whereby the inefficient wife is provided for by a
diligent and indulgent husband, and again,
where an economical, industrious and managing 
housewife is the prop, inspiration and savings
bank of the meagre earnings of an occasional
income through an indifferent husband. If
such couples were otherwise mated, it looks as
though one pair might go clear to the foot of
prosperity's hill while the other was resting on
the summit.
	Some years ago I heard President George Q.
Cannon say in public, that in choosing a wife
he would rather take one who could make good
bread and could not play the piano, than to
take a good pianist who could not make good
bread.
	At the time I heard this declaration I had
 no experience in eating poor bread, and sup-
posed that a good quality of that article was
an easy enough production, requiring no special
attention, and commanding no special praise,
and felt it almost an affront to my sex that we
must all be expected to qualify ourselves in
cooking especially as I had a particular aver-
sion to kitchen work. Of course I had forgot-
ten an ignominious experiment of mine some
years before, which brought about my dismissal
from the pantry, and remanded me to the sew-
ing room. I have since learned the real merit
of President Cannon's remarks, and know that
that brief portion of his sermon, if cultivated
by every household, where needed, would be-
come a universal blessing. I recall a visit
once made to a lady who was a frequent guest
of my mother's; one whom we thought much
of. She was nearly all the time in delicate
health and in a state of despondency. Her
case seemed very sorrowful to me, for I was
much attached to her personal and mental at-
tractions. One day I visited her, and her help
being absent, she cooked the dinner—one to be
remembered. As she took the bread from the
oven, and turned it out of the baking pan to
cool for dinner, I remarked: "It is not quite
done through, is it?" and she replied: "No; I
always bake it underdone, good bread gets
eaten up so quick." The dinner began with
an Irish stew, and her husband, after tasting
his, soliloquized, drolly: "Two pounds of beef,
ten potatoes, six onions and—how much Scotch
—Adeline?" I never wondered afterward at
her poor health, and remember making a rush
for the pantry when I got home. Imagine the
effect of such a cook upon the health of an in-
valid.
	It has come to my notice upon several occas-
ions how needful it is for hired nurses to be
able to prepare tastefully and economically the
food for the sick room. Very often the hus-
band is a poor man, and the matter is of great-
consequence to him that the few delicacies he
can afford be used to the best possible advan-
tage. The success of the physician, too, de-
pends much upon the cook. I very much fear
that when the doctor and cook are in opposite
scales, the doctor's chances are with the patients
—downwards. I do pity the doctor, when his
or her reputation hangs as much, perhaps, upon
the cook's performances as upon his or her own
ability and anxious endeavors.
