NEW HALL OPENED.

	The upper hall of the Eighteenth Ward Inde-
pendent school house, the new and handsome
building which has been in course of erection for
the past two years, was opened Dec. 27 with
a social party. A happy and congenial multitude
thronged the interior, most of them being mem-
bers of the ward. Among the guests were Apos-
tle F, D. Richards and President Angus M. Can-
non, both of whom, during a lull in the dancing,
made some excellent and timely remarks. The
people of the ward were warmly praised for the
energy and taste displayed in the erection of so
beautiful and convenient a hall, designed for lec-
tures and entertainments, etc., in connection with
the principal object of the building, viz: a Latter-
day Saint school. The past with its primitive
scenes and crudities, was contrasted with the ad-
vanced educational facilities of the present, and
the changes in Society and in the country general-
ly since the early days of Utah were dwelt upon.
The young were counseled to avoid excess of gai-
ety and the pursuit of pleasure, and indulge in
dancing and recreation moderately, not only out
of deference to the trials their parents and friends
were undergoing at the present, but for their own
souls’ good, and to turn their thoughts to re-
ligion and the soberer things of life, principally,
using parties and kindred entertainments as a
means of rest and recreation, which was their
proper utility and significance.
	Bishop Whitney added a few words to what had
been said, speaking in praise of the building com-
mittee, the donors to the school fund, and refering
to the objects in view in the completion of the new
hall and building.  Dancing was then resumed
and kept up to a reasonable hour, when the assem-
bly dispersed. A vocal quartette was finely ren-
dered during the evening by Miss Deanie Caine,
Mrs.Vilate C. Young, Messrs. H. G. Whitney
and J. D. Spencer, accompanied on the organ by
C. S. Burton. Toronto and Thomassen’s 18th
Ward band, supplied the ball music in excellent
style, and Thomas Goodman was prompter.
Everything passed off happily and the party was
voted unanimously a very pleasant affair.—Deseret
News.


