Officers' Meeting—Afternoon Session DISASTER RELIEF Mrs. Annie D, Palmer When I was first asked to talk on the subject of disaster relief, I wondered whether we might feel that there was sufficient need to devote our time for a few minutes to the subject, and then when I thought of the disasters that have already come in the past to our state and our people by the way of flood and of mine explosions. Then, when I thought, too, of the program that has been given by both ancient and modern prophecy, I could see that indeed there is much for us to think about as Latter-day Saint women on the subject of disaster relief and how it should be treated. A little incident that happened only a short while ago in the way of a family disaster will help to point out how we have thought, and how we have acted, in the past in the matter of disaster relief. In one of our stakes a home was burned and with the burning ef that home the mother of the family lost her life in her attempt to save a child. The story, as it was told and as it came to the newspapers, was most pathethic, nothing could be much sadder. Within a very short time two men had made the rounds of about five communities asking for relief for the family. The men also went to an organization for public welfare and asked that the organization give some relief to the stricken family. When they were asked about the condition of the family there was very little information to be had. Was the house incumbered with a mortgage? They were not sure. Was it covered by insurance, so that the loss would be repaid to the man and his family? They did not know. Were there relatives who could help RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 297 in the rebuilding of the home, or had the man other resources such as money in the banks with which he might rebuild, or did he even have another home? The men did not know. When asked what the family needed they simply threw up their hands and said, "Everything; they need everything. Those motherless children are huddled together in a corner crying and there is nothing for their comfort." That was the situation as it appealed to them. The organization to which they had made the appeal made an investigation of the conditions. They found indeed that the little children were huddled together in a corner. That was but natural. That was something that could not be helped, perhaps, not because of need but because the mother was gone—nobody could restore the mother, nobody could take ner place. Of course, the children huddled together in a corner and cried. The investigation was made a few days after the disaster had occurred. It was found that used clothing had been contributed in large quantities, which had been gathered in several wards and kad been sent to'the scene of the disaster in carloads. There was so much used clothing that it had been piled into the corners of the house to which they had been temporarily moved, it had been piled out in the coal shed, and up against the wall on the outside— so much of it that no one family could use it in years. In the same wards from which this clothing had come there were dozens of families who might have been made comfortable with what had been hastily gathered together and sent to the scene where the stricken family was huddled together. It was found that none of the girls of the family knew how to make over the used clothing, and they were not at all inclined to put it on and wear it as it was. So there was the used clothing thrown out in the weather— a useless heap. One of the girls said that in their cellar there was fruit which their mother had put un for the winter, and the cellar, which had not been burned, was full of fruit. In the meantime, loads of fruit had been gathered and hurried off to this family whose home was burned. It was found also that the man carried insurance on his home, and all together the relief was greatly out of proportion to the need. Now, what is true of a family disaster is sometimes true also where there is a community disaster, but there has been considerable progress made in the last few years in the way community disasters are handled. Since the time of the Johnstown flood, in 1889, there has been considerable improvement in taking care of disaster relief. At this time a large fund was raised and it was distributed as soon after the disaster as possible, on a per capita basis, each family receiving its share according to the number of people in the family, and it was immediately disbursed in that way. About twenty years later the Cherry Coal Mine disaster happened 
 and there was a very great difference in the way the fund was handled at that time. In the Cherry Coal Mine explosion 256 men were killed. A relief fund was collected and the committee was urged to disburse these funds immediately. The committee made an attempt, however, to educate the people away from this narrow way of per capita distribution and to educate them into the broader and better way of looking after the families according to their need, and so there were three social workers employed on a part-time basis to take care of the disaster relief at Cherry. There was a period of seven months of temporary relief, the period in which they were simply supplying food and clothing without even trying to rehabilitate the families. After that, they looked farther into the matter of permanent relief. No money was allowed to pay off debts after the terrible disaster, and no money was given as benefits to those who had suffered financial loss, but were able to go on and care for themselves. There was no attempt to indemnify anybody for any loss. It was not apportioned off to anybody according to the degree of family relationship. In the final distribution they divided the survivors into two classes, seme of whom received grants for the rebuilding of their business, and others who received allowances to be continued over a period of years. A few days later the Dayton flood occurred. It is said that at the Dayton flood trained social workers were the backbone of the relief work. This disaster involved a large amount of property loss, but there was no attempt made to repair these losses. Relief workers at that time considered that the family was the unit, that need was the basis, and that cooperation was the principle of relief. The fund was used, after the first period of reconstruction, in the community itself, looking to the sanitation, the health conditions, and things that had need of immediate attention and repair. After that the fund was used to repair houses and to help to build new homes. In San Francisco, in 1906, which is going back some, they seemed to have had a fairly good and constructive plan, even at that early date. Following the terrible disaster with its destruction of property in San Francisco, no attempt was made to reimburse prosperous businesses or moderate proprietors. Small business concerns were helped to reestablish themselves by grants ranging from $50 to $500. Cottages were built for five thousand families at a low price and were sold to these stricken people, each family being required to pay from $4 to $6 per month on the buildings. When they could produce a lot and were able to move the buildings away from the public ground on which it stood, the money they had paid in was refunded to them, so there was an incentive right from the start for these people to rebuild their homes. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 299 I know that you are all somewhat interested in the disaster which occurred at Castle Gate, a year ago (March 8, 1924). By the provisions of the Workmen's Compensation Law, enacted before this date, there was no family left without any means whatever of support. This Workmen's Compensation Law gives to each family of the miners who were killed $16 per week regardless of the size of the family. This is paid by the Utah Fuel Company, who are the insurers in this case. Immediately following the disaster, the Utah Fuel Company announced its intention to take care of the burial of all of the men who were buried on the grounds. Relatives who wished the bodies shipped to other places had to pay the additional expense. The Fuel Company also offered to every family a commuted sum; that is, the family could draw from compensation whatever was necessary for immediate need even to the extent of several hundred dollars. They also extended credit to every family whose breadwinner had been killed in the mine, so no one suffered for the necessities of life. The Carbon County Red Cross chapter was also on the ground and assisted in supplying food and clothing. Relatives of the people from all over the state and the adjoining states came and I am sure a great deal of help was given by them, so the immediate need was taken care of at Castle Gate. I am sure you can see how these people might have huddled together in their helplessnes, just as did the little children of the family of whom I spoke in the beginning. There was nothing that could have been done for that feeling of helplessness, other than to stretch forth the hand of sympathy. An appeal was made in the state and a large relief fund was accumulated. This relief fund has not yet been entirely distributed. But is being used constantly. A relief committee was organized, appointed by the governor of the state and the comnuittee procured the services of a relief worker to go into the homes cf these families and to do social work according to the best methods and best plans that have been devised so far as the committee knew, and in that way this work has been and is being carried on even at the present time. No family was given a large amount of money but they have been given allowances from the fund from month to month according to the best judgment and skill that we have. It is the hope of this committee that the means will last over a period of quite a number of years while the children are going to school, and that it will take care of their health and educational problems. It is true that at the time when a disaster occurs it is not a difficult matter to raise money, because instinctively men and women are touched by a great sorrow or a great disaster. But just as impulsively they demand that it be handed out immediately, 
 and I believe that the experiences of the past have shown that the immediate disbursing of relief funds, at so much per capita, is not the best way to handle relief funds. 'At the time of the flood disaster there were men who lost equal amounts, but some did not receive a share of the relief fund. This was because these men had enough means left so that they could continue with their business. Others who had not lost any more had lost everything they had. But this is a just way to administer a relief fund. The one who was able of himself to pick up the threads of life and go on with his own affairs does not need to be the recipient of a relief fund. A relief fund is not for indemnity, it is not for loss. Each family of a stricken community has its own problems just the same as exist in any community. There are families everywhere who are worse off financially than the women of the Castle Gate disaster. I am sure that you will agree with that. There are many of those women who realize it, too, and who realize that they are wonderfully blessed in having a compensation due them and in having relief funds to help them out. The reason we get a relief fund together is because the stricken community has nobody in that community to help the others. Otherwise, the family problems are very similar to those we meet in any community. As to the general principles of procedure in disaster relief, I should say that the first thing is to look after emergency relief, to supply food, clothing and shelter, and to treat problems of health. The next thing is to get the cooperation of every agency that is interested. There should be an estimate of the need, and this should be based on a fairly good investigation. Then, if necessary, an appeal must be made for help and it should be a sane appeal. It should not be made farther away than is necessary. If it is a family, help from one community is enough. If it is a big community disaster, then the appeal should go only as far as is necessary for the need of that community. Then each family should be studied and dealt with by a social worker. Permanent relief should be given, as it is found to be necessary by the social workers. If there is a larger fund than is needed, it should be held as a state fund where it can be used on a similar occasion if needed again. We need something in the management of our state whereby a fund which is not all really needed fur the welfare of the people for whom it is raised, could be kept in the state and used for another disaster. The essential lesson we have learned from a study of disasters is that the needs of a community which has met disaster are the same as the needs of a family; health, income, recreation, education, and spiritual development, and when these are broken into RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 301 there must be some way of reestablishing them and restoring people to a basis where they can develop a normal family.