[Vol46 | November 1959 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Dh fora te — Aneneae Literature — A New Nation Speaks Lesson 13—Two Eighteenth-Century Observers: Byrd and Crevecoeur Felder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 73-83; 127-136) Rar Tuesday, February 16, 1960 Objective: To contrast two evaluations of early 'American character. RAVEL has ever been a great educator and liberator. The lure of "new country" has always proved an irresistible challenge to certain venturesome souls, while country "new to me" even to this day must be seen by many descendants of explorers just as soon as can be after they begin hovering over unfolded maps with forefinger extended, and finally utter the fatal phrase, "I've never been there." But once on the way, of what does "sceing the country' consist? If we are alert and growing, each time we make the same trip it ls uniquely new. And to hear the same trip described by another is to make us wonder if we were there at all, particularly if the observer secs and loves people rather than precipices and picture postcards only. William Byrd and Michel GuilJaume Jean de Crevecoeur loved nature, observed her keenly, and were at home out-of-doors, but their true interests lay in the people they saw: how they lived; what they believed; what form of society, commerce, and government they erected to serve their desires best. Therefore, as we peer over their shoulders to read their journals as they write, our reward is at least four-dimensional: (a) we are at home in a new natural setting; (b) we meet a new culture at firsthand; (c) by the subjects of their comments and the interpretations they give, we come to know the observers better than what they observe; (d) because they wrote personally and accurately, by reading them we can "break the time-barrier" and live both then and now. Wilham Byrd (1674-1744) (Text, PP _17, 73°83.) So magnificently does William Byrd symbolize the myth of the Cavalicr Gentleman of the pre-Revolutionary South that it is difficult to see through honor and accomplishment to discover the person beneath. Yet the reward of knowing him more than justifies the effort. Since half his years were spent in England, half in America, either culture might claim him as its own; rather it was he who could with comfort claim them both. Sent to England at age seven to begin acquiring the education and breeding of a gentleman, he was entirely at home in London, Paris, and Holland, until at the death of his father, he was called home at age thirtyone to inherit his estate of 26,000 Page /67 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 Dementi Studio Richmond, Virginia WILLIAM BYRD acres and become one of Virginia's first gentlemen. In London he had studied law at the Middle Temple, absorbed Pope and Swift, and was an intimate friend of the leading dramatists of the day, Congreve and Wycherly. Fe toyed with the idea of becoming a man of letters, and wrote some satirical verses in the style of the day which still survive. For his excellent description of an albino Negro, he was asked to join the Royal Society, a connection which he prized throughout his life, just as he prized his many scientific and cultivated friends in England with whom he kept up an intimate correspondence until his death in 1744 at age seventy. He returned three times to represent the colony of Virginia at the court of England, sometimes. Staying "at home" for several years. Thus, because his version of a "Bible Commonwealth" continued to remain in Mother England, and because he had no feelings toward England but loyalty, affection, and enjoyment, he was far more the Englishman in America than were either the Puritans, the Quakers, or the mixed founders of the Middle Colonies. In large measure William Byrd loved Virginia because he had succeeded in bringing so much of his English life there. 'The mansion he built at Westover on the James River stands today as one of the loveliest country estates in Virginia. (See Text, page 15.) 'Though his lavish manner of living cost him dearly, and for a time placed him in heavy debt, he furnished his home with elegant carved furniture, drapes, sculpture, and personally commuissioned oil paintings of many of his English friends. His personal library of 3,600 volumes was second in size only to Cotton Mather's; that he used it constantly is proved not only by his many allusions to classical culture in his writings, but by his average day, as recorded in his secret diary, published for the first time after 1940: January 27, 1711 I rose at 5 o'clock and read two chapters in Hebrew and some Greek in Lucian. I said my prayers and ate boiled milk for breakfast. I danced my dance. It rained all night but held up about 8 o'clock this morning. My sick people were all better, thank God Almighty. I settled several accounts; then I read some English which gave me great light into the nature of spirit. I ordered Tom to plant some (1-c-s) seed. I ate goose giblets for dinner. In the afternoon LESSON DEPARTMENT my wife and I took a little walk and then danced together. Then I read some more English. At night I read some Italian and then played at piquet with my wife.. I said my prayers and had good health, good thoughts, and good humor, thank God Almighty. A lifetime member of the Supreme Council, a sort of senate composed of a few wealthy Virginians, he died as its president. He was receiver of the king's revenues. The founder of Richmond and Petersburg, he added 150,000 acres to his estate during his lifetime. Byrd's Character The code of a gentleman to which William Byrd paid supreme honor has much to recommend it, for he achieved a tolerance and an understanding for the viewpoints of others which often opposed the interests of his own class and station. Although a faithful member of the Church of England, he had sympathy for Catholic France and Spain's stern attitude toward Indian and Negro, even while he, a slaveowner, hoped for a democracy encompassing all colors of people. Himself a wealthy aristocrat, he nevertheless suffered with the poorer classes of people and with those surveyors wading through the aguish green desert of the Dismal Swamp, so brackish and humid-hot that in their sixty-five miles of anguish they found no animal life whatsoever, not even birds. An American gentleman, William Byrd was "the constant enemy of all exorbitant power, and_ hearty friend to the liberties of his country." Most important, life for Colonel Byrd was good here and now, and heartily to be enjoyed. Responsible, keen, creative, and just, both 7169 in his own business interests as in his relations with others, his greatest literary achievement was to take the portrait of a primitive, savage country, spicing his account with irony, sparkling wit, and humor, and employing his smooth narrative and dramatic powers to good advantage. Though it be trivial or tragic, he softened the edge of his world with humor, which verifies his gentlemanly qualities of judgment and draws us to him. The History of the Dividing Line Published for the first time in 1841, almost a century after his death, his journal, The History of the Dividing Line, tells of Mr. Byrd's experiences while surveying the boundary separating Virginia from North Carolina, to which place all the dregs of humanity had escaped. In his other journals we find his apt phrase combined with his insight into people, as when he went on an inspection tour of his lumber mills and found them "both standing as still for the want of water, as a dead woman's tongue, for want of breath." He knowingly defined man as "so very pliable a thing, and frail, when women have the bending of him." He _ ever pokes gentle fun at husbands dominated by their wives, at ministers who seem to preach only for pay, and at the backwoods inhabitants of "lubberland" too lazy to be responsible: The Men, for their Parts, just like the Indians, impose all the Work upon the poor Women. 'They make their Wives rise out of their Beds early in the Morning, at the same time that they lye and Snore, till the Sun has run one third of his course, and disperst all the unwholesome Damps. Then, after Stretching and Yawning for half an Hour, they hght 7 710 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 $ Dementi Studio Richmond, Virginia "WESTOVER," VIRGINIA, HOME OF THE BYRD FAMILY their Pipes, and, under the Protection of a cloud of Smoak, venture out into the open Air; tho, if it happens to be never so little cold, they quickly return Shivering into the Chimney corner. When the weather is mild, they stand leaning with both their arms upon the corn-field fence, and gravely consider whether they had best go and take a Small Heat at the Hough [Hoe]: but generally find reasons to put it off till another time (Text, pp. 80-81). He tells of wolf-pits dug so deep that "When a Wolf is once tempted into them, he can no more Scramble out again, than a Husband who has taken the Leap can Scramble out