[Vol46 | November 1959 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Madsen]
[Editorial: Thanksgiving by Louise W. Madsen]
"Thou shalt thank the Lord thy EDITORIAL God in all things" (D & C 59:7). We must learn to be thankful in adversity as well as in prosperity; to praise God in sorrow as well as in joy. The truly humble and sincere never approach the Lord to ask for a blessing without pouring out their hearts in thankfulness for the blessings that are already theirs. Thanksgiving is a family gathering day; one in which the traditions of the Nation and the traditions of the family may be observed. 'The Lord has indicated that he is pleased 739 when families gather together in the spirit of worship. A family who lovingly observes the traditions of its fathers enjoys an enduring relationship. To create or maintain a family tradition is to forge a link in a chain binding the members in a closeness of spirit that holds even though they are miles or continents apart. Many of these special family remembrances are connected with Thanksgiving Day. —L. W. M. > Ske Lot Cne Maude Rubin Now the white-winged ship had left. Bereft Of home and things beloved, they faced the new; Tried not to let old longings stir their hearts— (Each parts with what he loves! ) A prudent few Had brought along a chest, a chair or two, Some spoons and platters, half-remembered song To lend a touch of home. They plowed new loam; Their sturdy fence rows pushed the wilderness, Walled out The white distress... So, fed on faith, wrapped in the cloak of prayer, They weathered the long cold— Found springtime there! Diff us LO v Avonell S. Rappleve I once thought that my words and deeds affected only myself. Then I threw a pcbble into a pool and watched the concentric circles of water ripple gently and quictly to the farthest edges of the lake, until they lapped against the shore on all sides. I entered a room where spring-scented lilacs wafted delicate perfume to every corner. I dropped a crystal of methyl violet into a beaker of water and saw the water transformed into a deep purple liquid. Then I realized that, like the pebble, the perfume, and the dye, my thoughts and words and deeds, whether good or bad, diffuse throughout my world and touch the lives of those who stand within the circle of my life. ohaite op ICHanee Faces The Lord our God be with us, as he was with our fathers.... That he may incline our hearts unto him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his judgments... IIE face which we present before the dearly loved members of our families, before our friends and neighbors, and the face which we know in our hearts to be our own, should be the same. Only by this means of honesty and accord can we feel that serenity which comes with a full acknowledgment of our desire to live each day without affectation, and without spending any of the precious hours of life in pretense or attempting to establish before others a picture of oursclves which we know is not true. The commandment to know oursclves requires much consideration, for always we are in the condition of striving to close the distance between our hopes for ourselves and the knowledge that we are only travclers on the road to perfection. (1 Kings 57-58). Perhaps, at times, we are like the woman who was being entreated to buy a new cookbook, and who answered: "A new cookbook will not be helpful to me, for I am not doing the cooking now as well as I know how to do it." None of us is really making her life as beautiful, as full of service, as rewarding, as she knows how to do. We know in our hearts that the face which is ours can be improved, and that by careful weighing of all our words and deeds, we can achieve a greater harmony in our own hearts, and we can then approach our Heavenly Father in prayer with more humility. A wise Relief Society president once advised a sister who came to her for help in a trying situation: "Whatever confronts you, remember the welfare of others, and always to be kind." This way of conduct surely would be in harmony with woman's natural intuition to give sympathy and to be charitable. Then, in place of a face expressing sorrow or regret, a Woman may present for herself, and for all those who are her associates, a face of hopefulness, of joy in service. She may then realize that her face ls fair because her thoughts and her aspirations become more beautiful in harmony with her desire to know herself and her possibilities — as a woman who has dedicated her life to the ways of kindness, knowing that "Charity Never Faileth." BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 740 The Shining Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd ARY McMillen put the bowl of stew and dumplings on the table in front of her husband Fred and handed him the silver ladle. Ten-year-old Judy smacked her lips. "Pm hungry, Daddy. I've pushed Mrs. Gladstone in her wheelchair all afternoon. She buys bushels of Christmas presents. Where does she get all her money, I'd like to know?" "So would I," Bill said, gloomily. "Tll bet she has it in that purse she carries. No wonder she likes Christmas. She doesn't have to worry about presents." Mary winced. Bull was such a good-looking boy, with broad shoulders and bright dark eyes like his father. She wished she had extra money so she could buy that old wreck of a car he had been saving for since September. He worked at Gnzwald's after school and took odd jobs at night. "Bill is mght," Peg agreed, her pietty mouth pouting, "Christmas makes us wish for things we can't have." "Children!" Mary's gentle brown eyes scolded them. "Christmas is the most precious day of the year, and it means more than just presents." She knew that Peg was unhappy because the living-room carpet was so shabby she was ashamed to ask her frends in for a holiday party. Her heart reached out to Peg, just seventeen, blue-eyed and sweet as a rosebud, with her blond hair in a flowing pony-tail. She had been baby-sitting the past year and had bought her own clothes and most of Judy's. But the children could be so thoughtless at times. Mary sighed, looking at Fred's worried face. He had a good job at Hammond's Appliance Company and had been top salesman for years, but household expenses were so high there wasn't any money left for extra things. So she had rented their front bedroom to Mollett Gladstone who had come back to Lakeview for the Christmas season because — she loved the wintertime here. The town was a white fairyland when it snowed and everyone went down to the lake to skate. Mrs. Gladstone had stayed in her room tonight because she had been out all day and was too tired to sit at the table. "Mrs. Gladstone's got weak knees," Judy said. "Judy!" Mary scolded. "Mrs. Gladstone has arthritis, so don't speak of it jokingly. She is a very wonderful lady." "Oh, she is, Mama!" Judy nodded her head until her pigtails waggled. "TH bet she's rich," Bill chimed in. "Squalie Bradshaw says she's got money somewhere." Fred's brows puckered in a dark frown. "Son," he said, "I've told you that I don't want you running around with Squalie Bradshaw. He's a wild one and has some wrong ideas. He's even quit school." Page 74] 742 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 "But he lives next door!" Bill protested. "And he drives a truck for Grizwald's. When the boss says to work with him, what shall I edo?" "You can be pleasant to him," Fred conceded. "But you don't need to chum with him." '"He's not so bad," Bill said, stubbornly. Fred didn't answer. He ate his dinner silently so Mary tried to smile and changed the subject. HE telephone rang and Peg hurried to answer. "It's for you, Mama," she called, so Mary went to the hallway. It was Annie E'bermyer, who was trying to get the old group of college girls together. Could Mary let them come to her house for the Christmas party? Mary felt her heart thud. Imagine her friends in her living room with the worn-out carpet and the bumpy old sofa. She loved every one of them, but she just couldn't invite them here until she had a new carpet. "Tm so rushed," she said, weakly. "It know," Anne Ebermyer agreed. "And my house is full of guests. We'll just wait until we hear from you, Mary." Mary's hand trembled as she put the receiver back in its cradle. Peg touched her shoulder, and Mary knew she had heard everything. She forced a smile. She had always tried to be an example of cheer and courage to her children. "I will have the group here," she decided aloud. "Peg, how will it look if we take up the carpet and wax the old pine floor? And we'll put Grandmother McMillen's paisIf we we can tint the curtains toley shawl over the lounge. Hurry, night." Peg's arm went around her mother tenderly, and Mary felt her fresh young cheek against her own. "Mama," she said, "youre an awful dope to do it. But I love you forit. I wish I had your spirit." "You have, dear," Mary said, try- ° ing not to show what an effort she was making. Peg shook her head. "TI don't think I could have my friends here on a bare floor," she said, doubtfully. "Nonsense!" Mary scoffed. "We'll have everything clse so pretty no one will even notice!" At that moment Judy came out of Mrs. Gladstone's room ready to cry. "Judy!" Mary stooped to gather her in her arms. "What is it, dear?" "It's the weatherman! Oh, Mama, Mrs. Gladstone's television says we're not going to have a white Christmas in Lakeview!" "He might be wrong," Mary soothed her. "Anyway, let's not worry until it really happens." She turned to Pat and Bill who wanted to ski, "We'll have a shining, white Christmas," she reassured them, as she hurried into the living room to take down the curtains. It was a busy evening and by the time she was ready for bed she was very tired. "You work too hard, honey," Fred said kindly as he looked at her over the top of the evening paper. "I don't mind the work," Mary answered, "but sometimes — well, I do worry about the children. They're planning on going up to THE SHINING GIFT Twin Peaks to ski and that's thirty miles away!" "They can't go!" he said firmly. "But how can we keep our children home if all their friends go?" she demanded. "We'll have to interest them, Mary. If we had a new carpet we'd give a party." Tis eyes searched hers. "Peg told me you're having your group in spite of everything." "Why certainly!" "Her dark eyes flashed. "Do you think I'd let our children think of those things as barriers to happiness. I'll see that they have more fun here than anywhere else." RED suddenly smiled. "You are a trooper!" he beamed. "Any man can feel rich with a wife like you, Mary." He touched her hand. "I've been thinking, honey. We can get a carpet and a sofa on credit." She sighed, achingly. She wanted them so much, but Fred must have peace of mind, and debts worried him, especially because he worked on commission and business slowed up after Christmas. If they were going to spend money, she wanted most of all to help Bill get that old car. A boy needed something like that to work on in his own back yard. "Fred." She took a deep breath. "Td rather buy that old car for Bill." "So would I!" he laughed. "How did you know I would, Mary?" "Oh, I always know," she said. "We feel the same way about the children." "Well then, let's wait about the carpet," he agreed. "The company might give the bonus checks on Christmas Eve." 743 "But Christmas Eve is day after tomorrow," she told him. He opened his wallet and took out five ten-dollar bills. "Wrap this as a gift for Bill," he told her. "I've been saving a dollar at a time." Mary couldn't speak as she took the money. This fifty dollars meant Fred had been skimping on his lunches and Saturday golf and he hadn't had his hair cut so often. But he has a son, she thought, as pride flowed through her, and that makes up for any sacrifice. It was nearly noon the next day when she finished hanging the clean, tinted curtains in the living room. She stood near the window to admire them. 'Then she saw Squalie Bradshaw drive the truck beside the curb, and there were Judy and Mrs. Gladstone in the seat with him. Mary rushed out the front door. "Look, Mama!" Judy called. "Squalie drove us home!" "The wheel came off my chair," Mrs. Gladstone explained. "Then this nice boy came along and brought me home. It's been a real pleasure up here in the front seat." Mrs. Gladstone's usually pale face was pink and smiling, and her eyes had a gay twinkle. Squalie grinned as he turned to her. "TIl carry you," he said. "My! I do appreciate all this," she laughed. "What is your name, young man?" "Charlie Bradshaw," he answered. "We call him Squalie," Judy interrupted. Mrs. Gladstone frowned. "That sounds like _ baby-talk, Judy. I think it's high time we call him Charlie." Charlie straightened his shoul- 744 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1959 ders, and he seemed even taller than his six-feet-two as he went up the steps carrying Mrs. Gladstone. Judy ran off to play but Mary followed them inside. "Well!" Mrs. Gladstone sighed happily. "Thank you, Charlie. Will you come to see me real soon?" He was looking at her television set. "We could watch television," she offered. "I quite enjoy the football and the bowling." "Yes," he said eagerly. "And the basketball?" "Do you play basketball at school?" she questioned. "I don't go to school." His voice was suddenly sulky. She sat bolt upnght. "You don't go to school! Now tell me why a boy your age isn't going to school?" He shoved his hands in his pockets. "I have to work," he said. "Anyway, school is the bunk."