[Vol46 | November 1959 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: A]
[A Message and an Answer]

ayer with more humility. A wise Relief Society president once advised a sister who came to her for help in a trying situation: "Whatever confronts you, remember the welfare of others, and always to be kind." This way of conduct surely would be in harmony with woman's natural intuition to give sympathy and to be charitable. Then, in place of a face expressing sorrow or regret, a Woman may present for herself, and for all those who are her associates, a face of hopefulness, of joy in service. She may then realize that her face ls fair because her thoughts and her aspirations become more beautiful in harmony with her desire to know herself and her possibilities — as a woman who has dedicated her life to the ways of kindness, knowing that "Charity Never Faileth." BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 740 The Shining Gift Rosa Lee Lloyd ARY McMillen put the bowl of stew and dumplings on the table in front of her husband Fred and handed him the silver ladle. Ten-year-old Judy smacked her lips. "Pm hungry, Daddy. I've pushed Mrs. Gladstone in her wheelchair all afternoon. She buys bushels of Christmas presents. Where does she get all her money, I'd like to know?" "So would I," Bill said, gloomily. "Tll bet she has it in that purse she carries. No wonder she likes Christmas. She doesn't have to worry about presents." Mary winced. Bull was such a good-looking boy, with broad shoulders and bright dark eyes like his father. She wished she had extra money so she could buy that old wreck of a car he had been saving for since September. He worked at Gnzwald's after school and took odd jobs at night. "Bill is mght," Peg agreed, her pietty mouth pouting, "Christmas makes us wish for things we can't have." "Children!" Mary's gentle brown eyes scolded them. "Christmas is the most precious day of the year, and it means more than just presents." She knew that Peg was unhappy because the living-room carpet was so shabby she was ashamed to ask her frends in for a holiday party. Her heart reached out to Peg, just seventeen, blue-eyed and sweet as a rosebud, with her blond hair in a flowing pony-tail. She had been baby-sitting the past year and had bought her own clothes and most of Judy's. But the children could be so thoughtless at times. Mary sighed, looking at Fred's worried face. He had a good job at Hammond's Appliance Company and had been top salesman for years, but household expenses were so high there wasn't any money left for extra things. So she had rented their front bedroom to Mollett Gladstone who had come back to Lakeview for the Christmas season because — she loved the wintertime here.