[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: I HAVE SEEN ALL THE WAY. | Author: Unknown]

I HAVE SEEN ALL THE WAY.
	Edith, fair and beloved, all night lay in the
slumber of death. “She will regain conscious-
ness no more,” a sage one said. But the mother
wails that she had not bade her goodbye, and with
the untold strength of her love, called her back.
“O mother, I’ve seen the way,” she said, and
afterwords of undying love, “I am not afraid, for
I’ve seen all the way;” the beautiful eyes closed
on the world.

	Oh, I have seen all, all the way.
I walked, my hand clasped in the angel’s own,
O’er purple hills and winding pathways lone,
	To love’s abode—eternal day.
I grew not weary, tarried not for long—
Anon there floated far away a song—
	Birds chanted sweet a roundelay.

	O, I have seen all, all the way!
The city’s mansions by the shining sea,
That warm waves gently kiss in laughing glee,
	They frolic, sporting there in play.
Paradasaic joys my soul hath known,
Seraphic music sung in angel tone,
	Where fountains toss so high their spray.

	O, I have seen all, all the way.
My mother, oh, I heard thy gentle voice
Soft calling me, I could not then rejoice
	Though all around the glory lay.
To come to thee, it cost me, O, such pain,
I longed to see thy blessed face again.
	Alone I walked back all the way.

	O, I have seen all, all the way!
Again, O love, I feel thy kisses sweet,
In rapture, too, again thy sad eyes meet,
	Farewell, I hasten now away.
I feel no fear of darkness—none is near,
Alone I go, O dearest, shed no tear,
	I know, I know e’en all the way.

	O, I have, seen all, all the way!
I tremble not, alone fear not to go;
My throbbing heart is wildly beating so
	It seems the chords must tear away.
The myst’ries hid of life and death I’ve seen,
Invisible the bonnd’ry—worlds between—
	Dividing thus the night from day.

	O, some time thou’lt see all the way!
The landscape fair down by the silver sea,
The home where ransomed ones fore’er will be,
	With God to dwell alway, alway.
