[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Jacobson]
[POETRY To a Child — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts 153 Splendor Born Eva Willes Wangsgaard 162 Contrast Patricia Robinson King 165 The Passing Day Lila L. Smith 165 Gay Assertion Ida Elaine James 172 Night Rain Sylvia Probst Young 173 To a Yellow Crocus Hazel Loomis 179 His Art Gladys Hesser Burnham 185 Ownership Claim Maude Rubin 201 Another Spring Annie Atkin Tanner 202 View From the Pass Martha Tucker Fugate 210 Mrs. Teacher Olive C. Wehr 221 Communication Viola Ashton Candland 228 Snowdrops Ethel Jacobson]
From  Near  and  Far 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  was  intro- 
duced to  me  by  Elder  Dale  E.  Skinner 
when  he  taught  me  the  gospel.  Ever  since 
then  I  have  been  attracted  by  the  pretty 
covers  of  the  Magazine  and  the  nice 
stories.  Most  of  all,  I  have  been  uplifted 
several  times  by  President  Belle  S.  Spaf- 
ford's  messages.  When  Elder  Skinner 
finished  his  mission  and  went  home,  his 
loving  mother  gave  me  the  Magazine  as  a 
Christmas  gift  for  one  whole  year.  And 
today  I  have  just  received  a  note  saying 
that  one  more  year  is  given  to  me  by  her. 
I  have  never  received  a  better  Christmas 
gift  than  this  one.  What  a  help  and  a 
blessing  the  Magazine  has  been  to  me! 
It  has  been  a  constant  source  of  inspira- 
tion in  my  task  as  a  Relief  Society 
teacher. 
— Sheila  Tseng 
Hong  Kong,  China 
Since  the  publication  of  my  poem 
"Idyll  Moment"  in  the  February  1961 
issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine, 
several  of  my  parents'  friends  have  told 
them  that  the  verses  were  used  at  pro- 
grams honoring  elderly  people,  or  at  gold- 
en weddings.  Thanks  so  much  for  giving 
us  this  pleasure.  I  realize  more  than  ever 
to  what  extent  parents  live  vicariously  in 
their  children,  and  how  much  we  are 
obliged  not  to  fail  them. 
—Marie  C.  Webb 
Provo,  Utah 
I  have  only  been  taking  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  for  the  past  three 
months,  but  I  really  enjoy  it  and  look 
forward  to  receiving  it,  especially  since  we 
live  so  far  from  the  church,  about  twenty 
miles.  My  husband  is  in  the  service,  and 
we  cannot  attend  church  as  often  as  we 
would  like  to.  The  Magazine  helps  to 
make  up  for  this.  I  love  the  covers  on 
the  Magazine.  The  November  1961  cov- 
er (from  a  painting  of  Nauvoo,  Ilhnois) 
was  especially  beautiful.  I  enjoy  the 
poetry  in  the  Magazine  very  much. 
— Doris  Moore 
Rocky  Point,  New  York 
I  just  want  to  take  a  minute  and  put 
in  a  good  word  for  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine.  Someone  sent  me  a  subscrip- 
tion when  I  began  my  mission  over 
eighteen  months  ago.  I  was  so  impressed 
with  the  cover  pictures  that  I  began  cut- 
ting them  out  and  giving  them  to 
contacts.  Then  I  started  glancing  at  the 
poetry  and  some  of  the  articles.  Then  I 
was  sold!  You  certainly  have  a  publica- 
tion to  be  proud  of.  It  is  a  testimony  in 
itself.  I  am  sure  the  Lord  is  pleased  with 
the  missionary  labor  it  performs,  and  with 
the  high  class  literature  it  provides  for 
the  women  of  his  Church. 
—Elder  Farrell  M.   Smith 
Mettmann,  Germany 
I  am  delighted  with  the  first  prize 
story  'Ten  Dollars  \\^ill  Buy  Many 
Things"  (January  1962,  by  Mary  Ek 
Knowles).  Mary's  mother,  Nellie  Worth- 
en  Ek,  was  my  dear  friend  and  lived  with 
me  as  a  girl.  May  I  also  say  how  much 
I  enjoyed  the  very  unusual  and  significant 
poem  'The  Other  Mother"  by  Miranda 
Snow  Walton  (first  prize  poem,  January 
1962).  I  have  read  this  poem  to  many 
of  my  friends  over  the  telephone. 
— Mrs.  Edith  Hunter  Lambert 
Salt  Lake  Cit\ ,  Utah 
Congratulations  on  the  new  look  the 
January  issue  has.  It  hardly  seemed  that 
the  Magazine  could  be  improved.  It  has 
become  an  accepted  part  of  my  life. 
Thanks,  also,  for  the  wonderful  pictures  of 
places  I  have  seen.  Hardly  an  issue  comes 
that  I  cannot  say  to  my  husband,  "Do 
you  recognize  this?"  Then  each  page 
unfolds  a  message,  for  which  I  am  grate- 
ful. 
— Mrs.  Zerelda  Sapp 
Fort  Jones,  CaHfornia 
I  surely  appreciate  the  beautiful  covers 
on   the  Magazine.     Our  sisters  enjoy  the 
stories,  poems,  and  especially  the  lessons. 
— June  N.  Ashton 
Poplar,  Montana 
Page  154