[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 10a | Category: General Feature | Title: Christine H. Robinson Released From the General Board of Relief Society | Author: ]

Christine H. Robinson Released From the 
General Board of Relief Society 
IT is with a sense of loss that the General Board of Relief Society an- 
nounces the release of Christine H. Robinson from the General Board 
as of January 31, 1962. This release was necessitated by her recent appoint- 
ment by the First Presidency to serve as a member of the Adult Correlation 
Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. 
Sister Robinson was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society 
on May 26, 1948. At the time of this appointment she had had fifteen 
years of experience in Relief Society work in both ward and stake organiza- 
tions, which, with her great leadership ability and creative talents have 
enabled her to give valuable service as a member of the General Board. 
Sister Robinson has given devoted service on many General Board 
committees, particularly to the theology, work meeting, convention, con- 
ference, and visiting teacher committees, and for the past six years she has 
written the visiting teacher messages. She wrote the home management 
discussions "The Art of Homemaking" for 1950-51. She also prepared 
the script for the visiting teacher film "Unto the Least of These." Her
190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— MARCH 1962 
humility, spirituality, creativity, and discriminating taste have been valu- 
able in forwarding the work of the General Board among the Relief So- 
cieties throughout the world. 
Sister Robinson has also served as a representative of the General 
Board on many community-sponsored organizations. She is at present 
serving as an individual on the boards of the Community Service Council 
and the United Fund, and is first vice-president of Traveler's Aid. 
Although the loss of the work of Sister Robinson will be great, it is 
realized that her outstanding capabilities will be of enduring worth as she 
assumes the new calling on the Church Co-ordinating Council. The love 
and respect and best wishes of not only the members of the General 
Board but also the sisters throughout the Church are extended to Chris- 
tine Hinckley Robinson as she leaves the Relief Society General Board 
for this new, important assignment.
