[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Stuffed | Author: Thulin]
Stuffed Toys Are Delightful Shirley Thulin GPUFFED toys make delightful and much appreciated gifts for children's birthdays, special occasions, and always for Christmas. These cuddly toys make perfect gifts for children who are ill, and grandmothers will find that stuffed toys will please the children when they come to visit. Relief Society women make stuffed toys for bazaars and find that they are best selling items. Dolls First, let's make the most lovable, the rag doll. You can find patterns for all kinds of dolls in the pattern books at your local yardage counters, so let's take a look at the general directions for making rag dolls. The best material to use in making rag dolls is unbleached muslin, or, to make a beautiful doll with a hint of a blush, use pale pink Indian head, or a used piece of pink sheet. Figure 1 THE DOLL'S HAIR Made of rug yarn and stitched into the seam on the top of the doll's head. The hair for your doll, as with the hair on your little girl, is the crowning glory, so here are some tips. Use rug yarn, and stitch the pieces of yarn right in with the seam on the top of the head of the doll. You may stitch the strands of yarn on the head after it is stuffed, or you may want to make the hair out of an old black stocking. 'This is done by making a long skull cap from the stocking, attaching the top of it to the top of the doll's head, and then cutting fringe all around. Cut the front shorter, making bangs (Figure 1). If you are going to paint the face on, do it before stitching the head together. But, if you want to make the eyes of buttons, and the ears, mouth, and nose embroidered, you can do it after the doll is stuffed. 'Try making a funny face, using felt pieces, for a change (Figure 2). Children love to see a comical face. Figure 2 THE DOLL'S FACE The features may be painted or embroidered. Be sure to sew the doll together with good strong thread and with tiny stitches. Use quilting thread. Clip the corners and the round parts every little way, so they will be the right shape and not bind or pull when you turn it right side out (Figure 3). The best stuffing to use for all stuffed toys is the orlon from a quilt batting. You also can use old nylon stockings. Make the doll's clothing removable, and make several changes for her so your child will get the most pleasure from her doll. Page 211 212 a Figure 3 SEWING THE DOLL TOGETHER Use quilting thread. Clip the round parts of the corners so that they will be the night shape and not bind or pull. Figure 4 A HANDSOME DUCK The duck's body is made from a man's work sock. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 How to Make a Duck Now let's make a handsome duck (Figure 4). His head and body are made from the top of a man's sock. After stuffing the duck, tie a string about a third of the way down to divide the head section from the body (Figure 5). His perky cap is made from two pieces of bright striped cotton or denim (Figure 6). Just stitch all around, leaving a little place to turn and stuff. Sew to his head. Stitch a little pompon atop his stuffed cap. Make the pompon by winding some yarn around two fingers about twelve times, then tie in the center and fluff into a ball-shaped pompon. 'Trim and_ stitch tightly to the top of the cap. The bill is made by sewing two half circles of yellow felt together, leaving an opening to turn at flat place (Figure 7). Make two of these. Stuff them and stitch them to the face. Make his tail the same as his bill only not as long and make his wings the same, only larger. His webbed feet are cut from felt scraps, too. Cut them in shapes as shown in Figure 8. Now, make big soulful looking eyes of blue felt and stitch in place, and sew a row of colorful small buttons down his Figure 5 MAKING THE BODY OF THE DUCK Sew across the bottom. Stuff the body and stitch the top together. Tie a string one-third of the way down to divide the head section from the body. STUFFED TOYS ARE DELIGHTFUL 213 Figure 6 MAKING THE CAP The cap is two oval picces of material stitched together and turned. Figure 9 A SITTING SANTA CLAUS Made from a child's red cotton stocking. Figure 7 THE DUCK'S BILL Next is an ideal Christmas gift or table Cut four duplicate pieces of this patdecoration. This attractive sitting Santa is tern. Sew two pieces together for the top fashioned easily by any home sewer from of the beak and two together for the 4g child's red cotton stocking (Figure 9). Bottom. White orlon yarn makes the hair and beard of this cotton stuffed cutie. You will also need one red cotton sock with the turned down cuff (not the kind -» with the elastic top). Figure 8 How to Make a Santa Claus THE DUCK'S WEBBED FEET y Cut four pieces of this pattern, and a make each foot double. X ok ok Ok mney / caneiee popular gift. A variety of cute animals can be made front. He is now ready to become a a from this same basic pattern. Just gather ae felt, colorful bits of material, buttons, and whatever your imagination dictates, then Figure 10 start stitching. The pointers to keep in mind are fae. Keep the clothes for MAKING THE SANTA CLAUS stuffed toys colorful and the facial expresMark the leg of the stocking into half sions interesting. Do this by making the and quarters, and the foot of the stocking eyes big and the mouths turned up in __ into thirds. Small figure at right represents smiles. The toe of the stocking. 214 Scraps of black oilcloth are used for his belt and leggings. You will need 3 white sequins and 4 tiny gold-colored beads. Fight black beads are needed to march down Santa's coat. You will also need some orlon white yarn or White cotton for the hair and beard. 1. Fold and mark the foot of the stocking into thirds and the leg into half and quarters, then cut off the toe on the line of the first third. Cut this in half lengthwise. Cut foot on top and bottom folds, a trifle beyond the second mark. 'Turn inside out (Figure 10). 2. Fold cut edges together to form legs; stitch around crotch, rounding at ends for feet. Stitch toe sections for arms. 'Turn all sections right side out (Figure 11). Figure 11 MAKING THE ARMS AND LEGS FOR THE SANTA CLAUS The toe sections of the stocking are made into arms for Santa Claus, as shown in the small drawing at the right. 3. Stuff legs and body up to half mark. Using thread doubled, tie securely at half mark to form neck. Stuff and tie on quarter mark for the head, winding thread tightly up about one-third the distance to sock top (Figure 12). Knead into sitting position with sock heel as seat of pants. 4. Stuff arms (sock toes) and_ turn. Draw up open ends. Sew firmly to body. 5. For hands and feet, wind yarn tightly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Figure 12 STUFFING THE BODY OF THE SANTA CLAUS The neck is made by winding thread tightly at half mark of sock, and the top of the head is made by winding thread one third the distance to the sock top. Several times around the ends of the arms and legs. 6. For base of beard and hair, make a circle of small running stitches with the yarn on front of the head in the proper place for the face (sort of an outline around the face). Work from the outline to the edge of the head thick loops of yarn, making a single, short, tight stitch after each loop (Figure 13). Cut the loops, trimming shorter on the top for hair and flaring at the sides to full length at the bottom for the beard. Fluff out. Figure 13 MAKING THE BEARD AND HAIR Thick loops of yarn are stitched close together. STUFFED TOYS ARE DELIGHTFUL If you use cotton, just stitch where needed to the head. 7. Sew on white sequins with a bead at center for the eyes and one bead for a nose. Embroider the mouth. Embroider down the front and across the bottom of the jacket in outline stitch with yarn. 8. Turn the top of the sock down, making tapered pleat at the back to fit 215 the head and form a pointed cap. 'Tack invisibly. Make a pompon and stitch to top of hat. G. Cut oilcloth belt and leggings. 'Tack the belt in the back; lap, and fasten in front with gold sequin and bead. Lap and tack the leggings in back. Using yarn, whipstitch to ankle yarn. Sew on beads for buttons.