[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Sixty Years Ago | Author: ]

Sixty Years Ago 
Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1902 
'For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women 
OF All Nations" 
CLARA BARTON OF THE RED CROSS: It will be interesting to our readers 
to learn that we ha\e seen and conversed with the world-famous Clara Barton, of the 
National and International Red Cross. . . . Miss Barton's health is much improved 
since last spring, when we visited her at her home in Glen Echo. ... At that time 
she showed us all her jewels and badges of honor given by the great people of different 
countries, in recognition of her grand services in times of great distress and calamities. 
. . . Miss Barton is a quiet person, very unassuming, makes no pretentions to greatness 
or honor and is reluctant to admit that she has done anything worthy of such praise 
and commendation. . . . Her only object . . . has been to help suffering humanity. 
— Editorial 
VISITS BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY: In the society 
official visits are made by at least two members of the General Board from time to time 
to conferences of the society in different localities, and uniform instruction is given, 
so that all may work in harmony . . . each stake receiving at least one or two visits a 
year, even though the distance is great. During the year 1899 the branches of the 
society in England, Scotland and Whales were visited, and more recently the Scandi- 
navian countries have been visited by sisters from Utah. Mrs. Lucy B. Young was 
appointed while residing temporarily in Germany to preside over the branches in that 
country and also in Switzerland. The branches in the Sandwich Islands are also pre- 
sided over by a president from Utah. 
— Official Report 
WORK OF WOMEN 
It is a happy faculty 
Of women far and wide. 
To turn a cot or palace 
Into something else beside; 
Where brothers, sons and husbands 
With willing footsteps come, 
A place of rest where love abounds, 
A perfect kingdom — home. 
ALPINE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: The stake officers were 
all present and all the presidents of the wards. . . . President Standring welcomed the 
sisters and was pleased to see so many present. President Sarah Foutz reported Pleasant 
Grove Ward. The sisters are laying up wheat and relieving the poor . . . were united 
in their labors. President Martha Woolley reported Linden. They are a small ward with 
sixt}'-one members. . . . President Isadora Beck reported Manila. They are all united 
and have good meetings. Visit the sick and help the poor. American Fork First 
Ward reported by President Orpha Robinson. They had bought five tons of coal for 
the poor. . . .
