[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Leadership | Author: Eyring]
Leadership by Example Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961.I Y brothers and sisters, I am M grateful for this opportunity to testify to you my conviction that God lives, that he is our Father, that Jesus Christ is our elder Brother and Savior, and that this is truly his Church. I am grateful that he has given the authority to act in his name, to his worthy sons here on the earth. I am grate: ful for the leadership of the kind, wise, devoted men who have been called to stand at the head of his Church, his kingdom here on earth. I honor these men. There is an old Chinese proverb, which says, "He who tells me of my faults, is my teacher. He who tells me of my virtues does me harm." Perhaps that is drastic, but there is a core of truth there. I am sure most of us would want to qualify it somewhat. We must recognize our faults, if we are to correct them, and undue praise can be harmful in some situations. Today, I shall not praise our virtues, but rather I shall ask that we all appraise ourselves and perhaps recognize some of our weaknesses. I speak to myself, as I speak to all of you. I hope that we may learn together. Most of us have held positions of leadership in various organizations within the Church, and we know the particular responsibilities of those positions, but I would like to suggest that every individual always is a leader, because every individual everywhere has an influence, good or bad, on all those who see or hear about him. The more widelv we are known, the greater is our influence. None of us can escape this responsibility. Cain's question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" must be answered in the affirmative. I am mv brother's and my sister's keeper. I help to make them as they are. With that thought in mind, I would like to examine the Tenth Commandment: "Thou shalt not covet." 'The dictionary tells us that to covet means to desire inordinately something that belongs to another. This commandment, then, it seems to me, is telling us to avoid envy, to avoid undue concern about our material possessions or our positions, in modern parlance to avoid trying to keep up with the Joneses. I believe that much of the evil and misery of the world today stems from widespread disregard of the Tenth Commandment. 'Too many people, too many of us who would not lie or steal or break the other commandments, seem to be unaware that we are ignoring this one. Avarice, envy, selfishness are grievous sins. They are underlying causes of crime, of financial indebtedness, of poverty, of broken homes, of war, indeed of all of the evils that are opposed to the laws of God. Page 163 164 Since I am my brother's keeper, I am sure I have a double responsibilitv regarding this commandment. Not only must I control my own inclinations to covet, I must also consciously avoid exciting covetousness in others. If I must have status in order to satisfy my ego, I believe I should gain it by rendering service to others, or by creating something which will improve the world. In other words, I believe it would be better for me to find satisfaction in what I am and what I can do, rather than in the things that I may possess. It would be better for me and for those I influence. Paul spoke truly when he said "'the love of money is the root of all evil" (Timothy 6:10), and I believe that the Tenth Commandment is largely about just that. We should appraise ourselves regarding it. NOTHER expression we frequently use is peculiar people. The colloquial meaning of the word peculiar is queer or eccentric, and unfortunately that meaning has been accepted by most of us. And, because we do not want to be considered queer, we try verv hard to appear to be like everyone else. We try to avoid seeming peculiar. But the true meaning of the word is special, distinctive, particular. The ancient Israelites were told "the Lord... Hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth" (Deut. 14:2). "And the Lord hath avouched thee this day to be his peculiar people... And that thou shouldest keep all his commandments" (Deut. 26:18). If now, in modern Israel, we can properly claim to be God's chosen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 people, we must be willing to be distinctively his and to keep his commandments. 'To do so, in the materialistic, agnostic world of today, we must be willing to be different. In fact, we must insist on being different, in many ways, from most of the people about us who do not share our beliefs and standards. We must, in our everyday lives, adhere to the standards that God has set for his special people, regardless of what others may do. If, to order milk or fruit juice instead of tea or coffee or cocktails, or to decline the proffered cigarette, or to refrain from using profane or vulgar language, or to dress modestly, or to keep the Sabbath day holy, or to obey the law of chastity; if, to obey any of the commandments of God, makes us feel queer or uncomfortable, it is time that we change our attitude or our associates or both. We must be willing to de clare with Paul, "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ," and mean it. If we are to be his chosen people, we must be peculiarly, distinctively his. Most of us here today are leaders in Relief Society, and as such we not only have the responsibility of leadership, which is common to all, but we have the specific responsibility to plan and conduct our activities so that all the women of the Church, by following our leadership, our precept and example, may reach the ultimate objective of this organization. 'The inspired Prophet Joseph Smith said, "This society ls not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls."" Physical needs must be met, of course, but poverty of the mind and spirit is as real as physical poverty, and in many places is more LEADERSHIP BY EXAMPLE prevalent. It also must be relieved if souls are to be saved. That is our assignment, and our first step in filling it is to make sure that we are keeping all the commandments. Only then can we lead others in the right direction. 165 I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless each of us with the wisdom and strength to keep all his commandments, to be distinctively his people, to be good leaders. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Contrast Patricia Robinson King Where I was born the hills were humps, Hardly more than gentle bumps That nudged each other all the way Until they edged down to