[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
sixty  years  old,  is  still,  for  young 
children,  as  fresh  as  the  dawn.  In 
choosing  a  new  book,  however,  one 
should  be  sure  that  glitter  and 
sophistication  do  not  take  the  place 
of  the  real  and  lasting  qualities  that 
distinguish  fine  books.  Hans  Chris- 
tian Andersen's  story  of  the  jeweled 
bird  and  the  little  brown  singer  who 
was  the  real  nightingale,  should 
teach  us  that  in  choosing  books,  as 
in  choosing  other  values  in  life,  we 
must  "lose  not  the  nightingale." 
The  child's  first  book  is,  of  course, 
the  picture  book.  When  confront- 
ed with  the  hundreds  of  books  in 
this    category,    in    book    stores,    in 
drugstores,  even  in  supermarkets, 
the  average  parent  is  often  totally  at 
sea.  At  this  age,  the  child's  taste  in 
stories  and  in  pictures  is  not  very 
discriminatory.  But  this  is  the  gold- 
en age  for  beginning  to  develop 
taste  and,  while  some  of  the  inex- 
pensive little  books  usually  brought 
home  are  illustrated  by  good  artists, 
even  in  selecting  these,  a  parent 
should  have  some  standards  of  selec- 
tion, if  she  is  to  avoid  the  trivial  and 
the  worthless. 
In  the  past  few  decades  the  pic- 
ture book  has  come  into  its  own. 
Many  foremost  artists  and  illustra- 
tors have  turned  their  attention  to  J
illustrating  books  for  children.  Such   " 
well-known  artists  as   Lvnd  Ward, 
Robert   McCloskey,    Louis   Slobod- 
kin,  Ludwig  Bemelmans,  and  many 
others   are  writing   and   illustrating  J 
children's   books.     From   these  ar- 
tists  and    others,   then,    we  expect 
good  art  and  we  expect,  also,  quali-^ 
ties  that  have  special  appeal  to  chil- 
dren. 
A     picture  book  must  be  judged 
from  two  aspects  —  the  pictures] 
and  the  text.     Good  pictures  willj 
often  sell  a  book  of  poor  quality, 
while  a  fine  story  may  go  unnoticed 
if  it  lacks  appropriate  illustrations. 
Certain  qualities  in  the  picture  have 
proved   universally    popular.     Chil-j 
dren  want  an  bowQsi  interpretation! 
of  the  text.     The  technique  used] 
will  vary  according  to  the  nature  of  | 
the  text.    An  honest  interpretation 
does  not  imply  that  the  picture  must 
be  realistic.    The  lovely  pictures  by 
Marcia  Brown  for  Cinderella  are  not] 
realistic,   but  neither   is   the   story. 
The   fairy-like   quality   of   the   pic- 
tures is  in  perfect  harmony  with  the 
story.