[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Fiction | Title: To]
[To Follow the Flowers Dorothy J. Neilson 230]

Dorothy Getz, Cheri and Mary Anderson. Back row, left to right: Helen Ness; Joy Jensen; Beatrice Mitchell; Bernice Orcutt; Wanda White; Edythe Brown; Marjorie Zolman. Hazel K. Woolley, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that this was the first fashion show presented by the Glendive Branch Relief Society. Fach member who sewed a dress or a suit for herself also modeled it. The show featured two mothers and daughters numbers. The objectives of the sewing program, Sister Woolley explains, are to stimulate a desire among the sisters to sew for themselves and their families, thus developing and improving their talents; to promote a closer feeling of sisterhood by working together, helping others, and sharing ideas; and also, by such means, to help cut expenses in the family budget. The narrating for the fashion show was done by Edythe Brown. Following the show, a social hour was enjoyed and refreshments were served under the direction of Myrtle Batesole. Page 222 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 223 $38 ae: te Photograph submitted by Donna T. Smart EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) LUNCHEON HELD IN RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, May 25, 1961 Left to right: Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Dean B. Norberg, former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Wilburn C. West, former President Emigration Stake, now President of the Eastern States Mission; Donna T. Smart, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society. Sister Smart reports: "For the recently appointed stake board, this luncheon and reception was a successful and enjoyable endeavor. We planned and cooked for some 220 people. All of the members of Sister Norberg's recently released board, with one exception, were present to be feted and honored. The members of the General Board of Relief Society who reside in our stake, six in number, were present, with the exception of Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring, who was attending a Relief Society convention. We were highly honored and favored by the presence of General President Belle S. Spafford and her Counslor Louise W. Madsen. "In the true spirit of Relief Society, some of our talented sisters added musically to the afternoon. The combination of piano, two violins, and flute was unusual and lovely. The Singing Mothers, directed by the new chorister Maurine Lyman, beautifully presented three numbers. The highlight of the afternoon was the talk by Helen Spencer Williams, a member of our stake, who spoke of the faith-promoting experiences in the restoration of the Bee Hive House. Sister Williams was a member of the committee which supervised the work of restoration. "In keeping with the pioneer theme, we draped the tables in blue and white checked cloths — made by us — and we used gold accents for our Relief Society colors, as well as pioneer dolls for centerpiece interest. Our serving girls were dressed in checked gingham aprons and sunbonnets. "We were grateful for our training and traditions in Relief Society, as we planned, sewed, decorated, cooked, and programmed this first real activity of our new stake board. The helpful, willing spirit of our sisters in the gospel is truly inspiring." 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962: a4 E ay Photograph submitted by Amy P. Willis CHEYENNE STAKE (WYOMING) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 27, 1961 Amy P. Willis, President, Cheyenne Stake Relief Society, reports: "In the second year of our stake's organization, approximately 150 visiting teachers were honored at our convention, the theme of which was 'Visiting Teachers Around the World.' Special awards were presented by the stake visiting teacher message leader, Jeanne D. Alley, to forty-three visiting teachers who reached the goal of one hundred per cent throughout the year. Represented in the picture are part of these sisters, and because of great distances to travel, others were unable to be in attendance. As a conclusion of the program, a skit was presented to introduce the summer messages." Piictosraph sulted byaGlorialM. Dil AUCKLAND STAKE (NEW ZEALAND) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD ASSEMBLED AT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTION Front row, seated, left to right: Gertrude Murfitt, First Counselor; Gloria M. Dil, President; Airlie Eagle, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Hine Amy, work meeting leader; Muriel Hay, —— ees NOTES FROM THE FIELD 225 Secretary-Treasurer; Polly Paniora, theology class leader; Anita Chate, social science class leader; Marguerite Ottley, Magazine "representative; April Garlick, literature class leader; Grace Bratton, visiting teacher message leader; Evelyn Kennerley, organist; Ata Pedersen, chorister. Gloria M. Dil, President, Auckland Stake Relief Society, reports that this picture represents the first complete board of the Auckland Stake Relief Society. For the occasion, cach ward was assigned a demonstration on each function of Relief Society work. 'The Relief Society presented an evening's entertainment and instruction for the fathers and familics of all the Relief Society women in the stake at the stake center. The stake board class leaders prepared teaching aids showing the guests the scope of work covered in our lessons. Each ward and branch was assigned an item, some depicting the work and advantages of the development of talents. A sponge cake competition, one section for a plain sponge cake, and one section for a decorated cake, showed that the sisters are really accomplished cooks. Our Singing Mothers presented two numbers, and the children enjoyed several games." Photograph submitted by Berenece B. Darlev MYRUM STAKE (UTAH), HYRUM SECOND WARD PRESENTS "RELIEF SOCIETY YESTERDAY, TODAY, AND FOREVER" AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 14, 1961 President Vesta R. Allen stands second from the right in the front row of the sisters who are standing; Virginia N. Larsen, Second Counselor, stands at the right in the same row; First Counselor Alta L. Petersen stands second from the left in the second row; Secretary Della A. Nielsen stands at Sister Petersen's right. Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: "This year the Hyrum Second Ward had, as their guests for the anniversary party, the other two Hyrum wards Relief Society sisters. One of the outstanding parts of the program was the presentation 'Relief Society Yesterday, Today, and Forever.' It was not only very inspiring, telling the story of our wonderful Relief Society, but highly entertaining, as well. Everyone enjoyed it. We were all thrilled by the talent presented by these faithful sisters." 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Photograph submitted by Nina H. Beecher NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, COUNSELORS, AND STAKE BOARD MEMBERS VISIT INTERESTING PLACES IN SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, June 27, 1961 Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports an interesting trip: '""This group traveled by bus from Brigham City to Salt Lake City to visit the Deseret Clothing Factory and International Peace Gardens. We had lunch at the Lion House, and afterwards were taken on a tour of the Relief Society Building. Every ward in our stake, except one, was represented, and all but one member of the stake board were present. It was a very enjoyable trip, as well as informative, and the sisters had a very good time." Photograph submitted by Violet W. Hulet PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), PAROWAN FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS ELDERLY SISTERS AT SOCIAL, May 22, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Amelia J. Topham; Amelia P. Orton; Luella R. Adams; Hattie Holyoak. Back row, standing, left to right: Barbara Adams; Nellie Pritchard; Martha Dalton; Alice Holyoak; Nettie Robinson; Sarah Connell. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 227 Violet W. Hulet, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society, reports that a party was held for all ward members, May 22, 1961, honoring the faithful sisters assembled for the above picture. "The total of their ages is 819 years. All have been active, not only in Relief Society, but in all the other auxiliary organizations open to women in the Church. They represent stake Relief Society presidents, ward presidents and counselors, organists, class leaders, and work meeting leaders."" Verses extolling the work of each sister were read in tribute. Photograph submitted by Joie M. Hilton NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION DISTRICT LEADERS AT RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, July 28-29, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Olga Hanson, Lake District; Bernice Wickham, Ontario District; Margaret Wells, South Dakota District; Greta Damstedt and Dola Hofeling, Sioux District. Second row, seated, left to night: Clara Niemi, Lake District; Norma Whitney, South Dakota District; Beth Hatch, Doris Youngs, and Jolayne Harrison, Manitoba District. Third row, standing, left to right: Valerie Spillett, Fort Williams Branch; Norma Paakanen, Lakehead District; Myrtle Halden, Dakota District. Fourth row, standing, left to right: June Benson and Betty Sievert, Mankato Branch; Beverly Harrington, Dakota District. Joie M. Hilton, President, North Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "Pioneer week, July 28th and 29th, we held our first mission-wide Relief Society Conference. All eight districts were represented, with some seventy sisters participating. Over half of the sisters came from far distant branches, the greatest distance being from Dauphin, Manitoba, Canada, 630 miles. Informative registration slips were attached to snapshots of each sister and her entire family, and displayed beside a large map outlining the mission districts and pinpointing the thirty-six societies. The theme 'Relief Society Space Age Pioneers' was carried throughout the proceedings. The Singing Mothers in the branches had prepared the songs 'When Mothers Sing' and 'My Testimony. 'They sang together for the first time as a mission chorus. 'As a Voice Speaking, with taped narration, and the film 'Unto the Least of These' were presented. Highly practical demonstrations were given of sewing helps, hat making, and various handiwork. Specific lessons helps were combined with the demonstrations for all five first lessons, as outlined for the coming year. The conference was concluded with a most inspirational testimony meeting. 'The reading of President Belle S. Spafford's testimony from the Mission Presidents Seminar helped to set the high spiritual tone of the occasion." 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAH), FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 20, 1961 Seated, front row, left to right: Maybell S. Enckson, present President; Alene T. Meldrum; Anna P. Hales; Blanche W. Gardner. « Standing, left to right: Mary E. Andrus and Thelma J. McKell. Sisters in the portraits on the mantel: Rebecca S. McKell and Annie H. Warner, deceased. Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: "A history of this Relief Society was written for the anniversary social, and the sisters who have served in different capacities were invited to attend. As the names were read, each sister was presented with a corsage. Faithful and diligent service has been the aim of these sisters." Communication Viola Ashton Candland Words are often feeble things When we have need to speak To one whose heart is troubled Or one whose faith is weak. If eloquence is needed, Hope is a message to impart, Let spirit speak to spirit And heart commune with heart. When Christ expressed his love for us, Mere words did not suffice; He spoke by spirit and by deed, And with the voice of sacrifice. SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Eight-day World Fair Leaving June 2 including Victoria, Canada Ten-day World Fair Leaving June 9 including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Ten-day World Fair Leaving July 6 including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Hill Cumorah Tour Leaving July 20 Alaskan Tour Leaving first part of July ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7TH AVENUE SALT LAKE CITY 3, UTAH Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 La COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.20 _ GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner 30 == GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen ace ED sl IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 —_— INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25 — IN THY FORM — Madsen.20 — LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens 20 = LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgar cc.--0--- 25 ae LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER Gives you the ultimcte WOM 20 i LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS in fingertip total HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.20 electric living now I OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 and for years to come. I ~~ THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert.25 Music Sent on Approval DF 0 ra ye a) oS >. Yo rem. Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah i Ss I!! Please send the music indicated above.! I I ' ' i, I! ' 1 C] On Approval (1) Charge! CL] Money Enclosed! I i ' i i] 1 A> Z Qa a Q oO a w When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? U" E. Lst pee al A salt _— City 11, Utah I f of ets ICOM) f y, I lOO l {be S67 WG? I vy,: Page 229 UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. = now from = dealer To Follow the Flowers Dorothea J. Neilson E are blessed with beauty all around us during the greater part of the year, in the lovely forms of flowers. Each contributes to our enjoyment with its delicacy, its vibrant flowering, or its subtle fragrance.

Each is outstanding and special in its own time, and for all we are thankful. However, if we reflect upon these bright arrays a moment with deeper thought, we find they set for us the example of life. There is the crocus, one of the earliest to bloom in the spring. It pushes ahead of the rest, as an example. Often a blanket of whiteness and cold still lies on the slumbering earth. It heeds the challenge — the dare — to begin! Its colors exhibit its character, some snowy white, others brilliant gold, and still others royal purple! None, a sign of following: this, the crocus, is leadership. Then, throughout the season of flowering, there follows a wondrous procession of enjoyment for all. And so in life do we dearly love and enjoy all those who make up and contribute something worthwhile towards the various aspects of our existence; those of the delicate spirit, soft-spoken, but deep. The one who enjoys life to its fullest, and is frank and brave. And those masses of others who are "just plain," but give to someone dear and close to them that which could be had from none other — a friendship, loyal, faithful, and true. Some who are too complex to explain; others, surface lovely, but shallow and quickly fading. And yet, withall, we know that this is life and all must be a part. I think my favorite of flowers is the chrysanthemum. There are many varieties to suit each taste, from the fragile pink to the deepest bronze. Each has a heart of sunny yellow. They are the stalwarts! They faithfully grow all summer long, gathering strength and experience for their flowering. Often they meet with adversity that destroys or cripples the less hardy. 'The chill winds blow and often the freezing snow falls early to blanket them. But when the sun shines again, they are not withered and broken, but put forth their beauty for all to see. They have weathered the storm and are all the more precious for it — because now they stand alone. 'They continue to bloom, the last of the season. They are without bitterness for their experience. Vital to the end, their departure is sudden and done in full glory. That is how to live. A traditional feature of attending Conference is the very special joy of a delightful repast at "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" Everyone appreciates the dignified and refined atmosphere that prevails. You will appreciate the beautiful enlarged store — 3 times larger. "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" HOVE, "DISTINCIIVE " ee 6 OUR ONLY STORE — 850 East 21st South — Open until Midnight — (Closed Sundays) Page 230 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover.