[Vol49 | March 1962 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Do You | Author: Fitzpatrick]
[Do You Want to Increase Relief Society Attendance? Margaret Fitzpatrick]

radiant that a lasting joy now shines upon the faces of thousands of Relief Society women in many lands. 'Those voices which sang "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" were, in their intent and spirit, the lineal progenitors of voices raised by the Singing Mothers of these latter days. On that springtime day, in that distant year, the great river that flowed past Nauvoo 189 and surged in flood tide to the sea, was compared by the first President of Relief Society to the new organization of women. And now, one hundred and twenty years beyond that March day in Nauvoo, the world-wide sisterhood, the circle of charity and companionship, is known for good works in three hundred and fortyeight stakes of Zion — in more than three thousand wards — in hundreds of mission branches throughout the world. At this time and always, we remember that joy and service are one, that deep comfort and fulfillment come to us through following the words of the Savior which he spoke in Nazareth of Galilee: "He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted to set at liberty them that are bruised" (Luke 4:8). —V. P. C. ~}- Christine H. Robinson Released From the General Board of Relief Society T is with a sense of loss that the General Board of Relief Society announces the release of Christine H. Robinson from the General Board as of January 31, 1962. This release was necessitated by her recent appointment by the First Presidency to serve as a member of the Adult Correlation Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. Sister Robinson was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on May 26, 1948. At the time of this appointment she had had fifteen years of experience in Relief Society work in both ward and stake organizations, which, with her great leadership ability and creative talents have enabled her to give valuable service as a member of the General Board. Sister Robinson has given devoted service on many General Board committees, particularly to the theology, work meeting, convention, conference, and visiting teacher committees, and for the past six years she has written the visiting teacher messages. She wrote the home management discussions "The Art of Homemaking" for 1950-51. She also prepared the script for the visiting teacher film "Unto the Least of These." Her 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 humility, spirituality, creativity, and discriminating taste have been valuable in forwarding the work of the General Board among the Relief Societies throughout the world. Sister Robinson has also served as a representative of the General Board on many community-sponsored organizations. She is at present serving as an individual on the boards of the Community Service Council and the United Fund, and is first vice-president of Traveler's Aid. Although the loss of the work of Sister Robinson will be great, it is realized that her outstanding capabilities will be of enduring worth as she assumes the new calling on the Church Co-ordinating Council. The love and respect and best wishes of not only the members of the General Board but also the sisters throughout the Church are extended to Christine Hinckley Robinson as she leaves the Relief Society General Board for this new, important assignment.