[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 4 | Special Feature | Responsibility of Relief Society Women Joseph | Fielding Smith]
May the peace and blessings of Responsibility of Relief Society Women heaven abide in your homes and be upon you and your loved ones now and forever." The sisters should always "concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in their husbands, whom God has appointed for them to honor, and in those faithful men whom God has placed at the head of the Church to lead His people; that we should arm and sustain them with our prayers. "This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. "If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. Females, if they are pure and innocent, can come in the presence of God; for what is more pleasing to God than innocence if we would come before God, we must keep ourselves pure, as He is pure "You need not be teasing your husbands because of their deeds, but let the weight of your innocence, kindness and affection be felt, which is more mighty than a millstone hung about the neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, purity these are the things that should magnify you in the eyes of all good men If this Society listen to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have 

5 January 1970

 power to command queens in their midst." I would like to quote some poetry that I think fits many of us. It is entitled "Where Shall I Work Today?" Master, where shall I work today? My love flowed warm and free. He pointed out a tiny spot And said, tend that for me.. I answered quickly, oh no, not there, Not any one could see No matter how well my work was done; Not that little spot for me. When he spoke he was not stern, But he answered me tenderly, Little one, search that heart of thine; Are you working for them or for me? Nazareth was just a little place And so was Galilee. I am sure we all could take this to heart and do better in our work and not try to be aspiring but be humble in all we undertake to do. I think I have quoted this before: "Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness.... "When you go home, never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands, but let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforward; don't envy the finery and fleeting show of sinners, for they are in a miserable situation; but as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a short time God will-destroy them, if they will not: repent.... "Who are better qualified to administer than our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion." I hope and pray that I have given you something today that will strengthen your testimonies and help you to go through life, and to realize the importance of your callings in this great organization. And may the Lord bless you good sisters and magnify you, and I leave my blessings with you, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. Ck NOT WHERE I SERVE, BUT HOW I do not seek high honor or position, I do not ask to plan or chart the way, For some are called to lead, and some to follow, And all are blessed who