[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 1 | Special Feature | Happy New Year 1970 | ]
[Happy New Year 1970]

Responsibility of Relief Society Women President Joseph Fielding Smith Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] w My dear sisters, here we are again at another conference and where the time has gone, I do not know. I see a few brethren in the audience, and I am sure that we welcome them at this gathering. You know I am a member of the Relief Society because I am one of their advisors, along with Brother Lee and Brother Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, so you will have to put up with me, but we are very happy to be a part of this great and glorious organization. You wonderful women are doing a marvelous work and are to be congratulated on the results, and all I ask is for you good sisters to be true and faithful and magnify your callings in this wonderful organization. Now I think it would be proper for me to give some instructions taken from the Prophet Joseph Smith's writings because sometimes we forget what our duties are, so with the help of the Lord 4 and your faith and prayers, I shall give to you some of the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and while I mention the Prophet, let me add that President McKay sends his love and blessings to you sisters and he appreciates the work that you are doing. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: "... Some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies [are members of this society] and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; and will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice. "Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness....

We feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts the condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated." I am interested in this Society. I as was the Prophet Joseph Smith, that its rules must be observed; that none should be received into it but those who are worthy and virtuous. '""There must be decision of character aside from sympathy. When instructed, we must obey that voice, observe the laws of the kingdom of God, that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us. All must act in concert, or nothing can be done. It was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, 'Come up higher.' " The Prophet Joseph Smith spoke of delivering the keys of the priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the saints whose integrity had been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord for blessings and receive the answer. President Heber J. Grant once said that his heart was full of gratitude to his Heavenly Father "for the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of Relief Society who are doing and always have done so much for the comfort and encouragement of those less fortunate than themselves. May our Heavenly Father bless the mothers in Israel and all who are engaged in building up the kingdom of God on the earth.