[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Genealogy and Literature - Descendants and Trib]

LESSON II.
Work and Business.
Second Week in March.

LESSON III.
Genealogy and Literature.
Third Week in March.

DESCENDANTS AND TRIBES OF JAPHETH, HIS

When the sons of Noah, with their descendants spread abroad after the Flood, the sons of Japheth went into the Mediterranean coasts, into Asia Minor to "the isles of the Gentiles," also across Armenia, into the Tigris and Euphrates valleys over Media and Persia, and eastward as far as India, embracing probably the peoples who spoke what is now called the great Indo-European languages. Japheth means "enlarged." In Greek mythology the Titan Japetus is the progenitor of the human race. Ion, his son, in the Hebrew form, is Javan. Tarshish, son of Javan, is father of southern Spain Madai of the Medes, and Gomer, the Teutons. Some of our Latter-day Saints authorities claim Semitic descent for the Teutons. It is quite certain that the seed of Israel is scattered through the Teuton peoples. However, we give the line here as it is given in modern histories.

was nearing fulfilment: the toes of the image were shaping into the ten nations which now occupied Europe. There are three periods of history: ancient, medieval and modern. Ancient history begins with the beginning of life upon the earth and ends with the fall of the Roman empire. Medieval history begins with the introduction of Christianity into Rome and ends with the Reformation. From the close of the period of the Reformation in 1600 we have modern history. The Christian Era. At the time of the Savior all Europe north of the Pyrenees was in the hands of the Celts and the Goths  pagans all. In the year 400 A. D., Europe was divided into the Eastern and Western empires. The Eastern empire extended from the lower Danube to the confines of Persia. The western empire extended from the Caledonian ramparts (Which was the wall builded by the Roman Conqueror Hadrian between Scotland and England), down through what is now Holland, Belgium, France and Italy to the foot of Mt. Atlas. In 496 A. D., Christianity was introduced among the Franks who were a tribe of Goths, and their king Clovis accepted baptism. In 768 A. D., Charlemagne, King of the Franks, invaded Italy and annexed Northern Italy to his empire. He next conquered the Saxons, compelled them to adopt Christianity and made himself master of all Europe north of the Alps. He was recognized by the Pope of Rome and was himself a patron of art, literature, science and was indeed a very great and wise potentate. From that time France began its career as a separate kingdom. Norway enters into the history of nations with Halfdan as king, (800 A. D.). Sweden in 900, and Denmark at about the same period. Iceland was settled in 874 A. D. Germany emerges as a nation with King Louis, 814 A. D.; and France and Germany, after wars and much strife became separate nations, in 887. Russia was sufiiciently united and nationalized in 900 to take her place in the family of nations. By 1000 A. D. Spain was an independent kingdom under Ramira the Second; Norway and Denmark were making and recording history; Germany and France were at occasional wars wtih each other and with.surrounding nations; Russia was ruled by Yarolaflf the Great. In this chapter we haA'e considered briefly the rise and fall of the ancient Japhetic peoples, who have been the forefathers and founders of modern Europe and who were in part the descendants of Japheth through his varied lineage. Mixed with his seed has been the blood of Israel which has also been pointed out in these lessons. The story of Germany, of France, of Scandinavia, and of Great Britain will be briefly referred to in the chapters dedicated to the history of their surname origins, We will now 
 consider the varied branches of the Teutonic race which have invaded, conquered and settled the powerful modern continent of Europe.