[Vol5 | February 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial O War, Where is Our Fear of Thee]
PATRIOTIC  DEPARTMENT.  95 
yourself  hereafter.  The  government  is  going  to  send  out  men  to 
help  yoil.  It  will  be  up  to  you  to  hunt  up  these  men,  who  will  be 
■  sent  into  every  county  seat  town,  and  some  other  towns  besides,  to 
meet  the  people.  Postmasters  will  be  able  to  tell  you  when  the 
government's  income  tax  man  will  be  around,  and  where  to  find 
him.  He  will  answer  your  questions,  sw^ear  you  to  the  return,  take 
your  money,  and  remove  the  wrinkles  from  your  brow.  Returns 
of  income  for  1917  must  be  made  between  januarv  1  and  March 
1,  1918. 
"Next  year,  when  every  married  person  living  with  wife  or 
husband  and  having  a  net  income  of  $2,000,  and  every  unmarried 
person  not  the  head  of  a  family  and  having  a  net  income  of  $1,000 
for  the  year  1917.  must  make  return  of  income  on  the  form 
prescribed,  there  will  be  hundreds  in  every  community  seeking 
light  on  the  law,  and  help  in  executing  their  returns.  IMy  own 
district  will  be  divided  into  districts,  with  the  county  as  the 
unit,  and  a  government  officer  informed  on  the  income  tax  as- 
signed to  each  district.  He  will  spend  hardly  less  than  a  week 
in  each  county,  and  in  some  counties  a  longer  time,  very  likely  in 
the  courthouse  at  the  county  seat  town.  My  office  wall  in  due 
time  advise  postmasters  and  send  out  notices  to  the  newspapers 
stating  when  the  officer  will  be  in  each  county. 
"It  may  be  stated  as  a  matter  of  general  information  that  'net 
income'  is  the  remainder  after  subtracting  expenses  from  gross 
income.  Personal,  family  or  living  expense  is  not  expense  in  the 
meaning  of  the  law.  the  exemption  being  allowed  to  cover  such  ex- 
pense. 
"Practically  every  farmer,  merchant,  tradesman,  professional 
man  and  salary  worker  and  a  great  many  wage  workers  will  be 
required  to  make  return  and  pay  tax. 
"The  law  makes  it  the  duty  of  the  taxpayer  to  seek  out  the 
collector.  Many  people  assume  that  if  an  income  tax  form  is  not 
sent,  or  a  government  officer  does  not  call,  they  are  relieved  from 
making  report.  This  is  decidedly  in  error.  It  is  the  other  way 
round.  The  taxpayer  has  to  go  to  the  government  and  if  he 
doesn't  within  the  time  prescribed,  he  is  a  violator  of  the  law, 
and  the  government  will  go  to  him  with  penalties."

Current  Topics. 
B\  James  H.  Anderson. 
"Mormon"   chapels  at   Dublan,   Mexico,  and  Bunkerville, 
Nevada,  were  l)urned  down  in  December. 
Two  German  prisoners  made  their  escape  from  Fort  Doug- 
las,  Utah,  the  .day  before  Christmas. 
Ecuador  has  broken  off  relations  with  Germany,  and  the 
Argentine  Republic  is  on  the  verge  of  doing  the  same  thing. 
Thirteen  negro  soldiers  were  hanged  in  December  for  par- 
ticipating in  the  riots  at  Houston,  Texas,  August  23. 
East  Africa  has  been  cleared  of  German  military  forces, 
after  a  three  years'  campaign  by  British,  French  and  Belgians. 
Christmas  with  no  snow  in  the  valleys  was  an  experience 
in  Utah  for  1917,  quite  unusual. 
Germans  and  Austrians  to  the  number  of  hundreds  of 
thousands,  captured  by  the  Russian  armies,  have  been  set  at 
liberty.    
Red  Cross  membership  in  Utah  was  expected  to  be  swelled 
to  40,000  in  the  last  week  in  December ;  the  number  reached  was 
70,000. 
Oil  fields  in  Wyoming  continue  to  multiply  until  it  looks 
as  if  that  state  alone  would  be  abble  to  furnish  the  world  its  oil 
supply  for  years  to  come; 
Canada  has  voted  to  uphold  conscription.  Evidently  the 
people  there  propose  that  the  great  war  will  be  carried  to  a  suc- 
cessful finish  for  their  side. 
Prest.  Joseph  F.  Smith  returned  from  California  for 
Christmas,  his  health  greatly  improved,  to  the  sincere  gratification 
of  the  Latter-dav  Saints  Sfenerallv. 
Germany  is  reported  to  be  short  of  food ;  but  the  Germans  ' 
seem  to  "cut  the  suit  to  fit  the  cloth"  in  dealing  with  the  food 
item  as  well  as  with  other  situations.

CURRl.NT  TOPICS.  97 
Russia  has  been  divided  into  five  republics,  all  of  them  of 
rather  uncertain  tenure  of  life,  viz.:  Finland,  Ukraine,  Crimea, 
Siberia,  and  the  one  under  the  Bolsheviki  at  Petrograd. 
Gen.  Pershing  advises  his  American  troops  to  "never  tell 
anything  of  a  confidential  nature  to  a  woman.''  He  must  have 
learned  that  on  the  European  side  of  the  Atlantic. 
The  Temple  at  Logan,  Utah,  was  partially  destroyed  by 
fire  in  December,  but  is  being  repaired  rapidly.  The  loss  was 
about  $50,000. 
British  troops  made  further  headway  against  the  Germans 
in  France  in  December,  but  the  lines  there  are  so  firmly  held  that 
a  decisive  contest  seems  many  months  distant. 
The  Jews  in  both  Europe  and  America  are  acclaiming 
Great  Britain  as  the  sovereign  power  under  which  they  can  return 
in  safety  and  rebuild  Palestine  and  its  historic  capital. 
Social  disease,  discovered  through  the  organization  of  the 
national  army  to  be  so  prevalent  in  the  United  States,  is  now  re- 
ceiving the  open  antagonism  of  physicians  in  civil  as  well  as  m 
army  life. 
Germany  made  known  its  Christmas  terms  of  peace,  but 
these  were  so  arrogant  and  so  unassuring  for  a  permanent  cessa- 
tion^ of  war  that  the  Entente  Allies  could  not  consider  them  fa- 
vorably. 
Strikes  in  packing  plants  in  the  United  States,  during  the 
war,  are  said  to  have  been  safely  guarded  against  by  arrange- 
ments entered  into  in  December,  between  the  employes  and  the 
government  department  of  labor. 
Italy  is  making  stupendous  efforts  to  check  the  great  Austro- 
German  drive  into  her  northern  territory,  and  by  the  aid  of  British 
and  French  troops  seemed  to  have  gained  that  end  in  the  latter 
part  of  December. 
Palestine  is  not  yet  relieved  from  being  trodden  under  foot 
of  the  Gentile  Turk,  and  may  not  be  for  a  year  or  two,  but  the 
British  forces  are  pushing  steadily  northward  from  the  line  across 
the  country  between  Jerusalem  and  Jafifa. 
Wm.  J.  Flynn,  who  for  many  years  has  proven  a  capable

98  RELlEl'  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
and  successful  head  of  the  United  States  Secret  Service,  has  re- 
signed, ill  health  being;  named  as  one  of  the  reasons,  but  the 
others  are  not  made  public. 
Winter  wheat  shows  an  unusual  shortage  this  season,  ac- 
cording- to  U.  S.  Government  reports,  and  farmers  are  being 
urged  to  plant  a  much  larger  area  of  spring  wheat  than  is  cus- 
tomary. 
Yaqui  Indians  in  Sonora,  Mexico,  have  declared  their  in- 
dependence from  that  country,  and  to  gain  their  object  have  in- 
stituted a  warfare  that  may  have  an  important  effect  on  Mexico's 
future. 
War  with  Austria  has  been  declared  by  the  United  States 
Congress  to  be  an  exist' ng  condition,  and  it  will  be  found  neces- 
sary to  intern  tens  of  thousands  of  Austrians  in  the  United  States 
as  dansrerous  aliens. 
The  Browning  machine  gun,  invented  by  a  Utah  man,  and 
adopted  by  the  United  States  Government,  is  said  by  experts 
testifying  before  the  U.  S.  Senate  committee  to  be  superior  to  any 
other  gmi ;  but  the  makers  of  the  latter  are  disputing  the  claim. 
Congress  began  its  session  in  December,  and  instituted 
investigations  into  the  government  food  and  fuel  administrations 
and  into  army  supply  affairs  in  the  United  States,  thereby  un- 
covering many  unsatisfactory  conditions. 
A  prohibition  amendment  to  the  national  Constitution  has 
been  passed  by  Congress,  and  will  be  submitted  to  the  legislatures 
of  the  various  states.  The  curse  of  the  saloon  is  being  recog- 
nized, and  its  removal  effectively  sought. 
The  Scandinavian  nations,  at  a  conference  held  in  De- 
cember, decided  to  remain  neutral  in  the  present  great  conflict 
They  think  they  have  enough  war  being  poured  out  upon  them 
in  the  existing  hardships  and  losses  proceefling  from  the  con- 
flict. 
The  Bolsheviki  government,  which  overthrew  Kerensky 
and  seized  Petrograd's  affairs  in  Russia,  then  arranged  an  armis- 
tice with  Germany,  has  proved  an  unstable  government.  Russia 
is  in  the  throes  of  civil  war,  with  little  prospect  of  improvement 
for  a  long  time  to  come.

CURRENT  TOPICS.  99 
Numerous  government  bureaus,  national  and  state,  have 
made  at  the  end  of  1917  glowing  reports  of  what  they  have  ac- 
complished ;  but  an  analysis  shows  that  many  of  them  have  dis- 
played at  their  chief  accomplishment  their  ability  to  draw  big 
salaries  from  the  public  purse. 
Jerusalem  and  Bethlehem  were  taken  by  the  British 
troops  without  the  latter  destroying  any  of  the  buildings  in 
either  place ;  but  there  was  some  very  hard  and  difficult  fighting 
in  the  vicinity  before  the  Turks  were  driven  out,  on  December 
9.  The  Turks  looted  the  historic  churches  of  all  valuable 
property. 
Postmaster  General  Burleson  opposes  the  forming  of 
trades  unions  among  the  U.  S.  postal  employes  as  having  no 
legitimate  occasion  therefore,  since  the  government  fixes  the 
wages  and  hours.  The  labor  unions  are  demanding  Mr.  Bur- 
leson's removal  from  President  Wilson's  cabinet,  because  of  his 
attitude  on  this  matter.. 
Pope  Benedict,  the  Roman  pontiff,  is  cons'dering  the  prob- 
ability of  uniting  the  Greek  and  Roman  Catholic  cnurches  under 
the  pope's  leadership,  now  that  the  Russian  czar  is  deposed,  ac- 
cording to  dispatches  from  Rome.  The  union  of  these  two 
branches,  taken  in  connection  with  their  offshoots,  would  embrace 
the  vast  majority  of  the  professed  Christian  work],  and  truly 
would  form  a  great  church. 
Halifax,  the  great  English  naval  base  in  the  north  Atlantic, 
was  the  scene  of  the  most  terrific  explosion  known  in  history,  on 
December  6.  A  Belgian  relief  ship  coll'ded  with  a  vessel  laden 
with  war  munitions,  and  fire  and  explosion  followed,  wrecking 
the  city  of  Halifax,  killing  1500  people,  injuring  4000,  and  ren- 
dering homeless  25,000  others;  while  the  financial  loss  is  over 
thirty  million  dollars. 
Jerusalem  in  the  possession  of  British  troops  has  stirred  the 
world  at  the  Christmas  of  1917  as  never  before  along  the  same 
lines.  Christian,  Hebrew,  and  agnostic,  Gentile  and  Jew  alike, 
in  all  countries  outside  of  the  Teutonic  all'ance,  have  rejoiced; 
and  the  announcement  of  David  Lloyd  George,  premier  of  Great 
Britain,  in  response  to  Germany's  peace  proposition  that  "Turkev 
remain  inact,"  that  "Jerusalem  never  will  be  returned  to  the 
Turks,"  met  with  such  approving  sentiment  that  it  is  clear  such  a 
peace  settlement  as  suggested  cannot  be  made  among  the  contend- 
ing nations.