ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued from No 12, Nov. 15 1880.)

	Sister Eliza may be said to have commenced
a new era in her life when she arrived in the
valley. To be sure the first year was spent in
retirement, home duties, and comforting the
Saints who came round her in hours of trial,
for those were the days which tried the souls of
men and women; days of adversity, and yet heav-
en showered down rich blessings upon them.
Her pen was busy at every available moment
and many were consoled, strengthened and
encouraged by the inspirational muse, who
never has forsaken her under any circumstance,
or changes. Sister Eliza felt a little lonely in
those days being separated from some of the
sisters with whom she had been intimately as-
sociated, but still she rejoiced that she had
reached a haven of rest after having partici-
pated in the persecutions and exile of the
Saints. Her health improved and her Spirit
soared aloft and she drank in invigorating
draughts of intelligence, which were poured
out in verse and song and psalms of praise.
	She had been designated by Joseph the
prophet, Zion's Poetess; and though he was
gone, and her years were multiplying, she con-
tinued to write and a double portion of the
spirit of her mission and calling seemed to rest
upon her. Her diligence her faithfulness, and
integrity are worthy emulation by the
daughters of Zion. When yearning tenderly
for those she had left behind, in November

[Column 2]
1847, she wrote a poem entitled "Come To The
Valley" addressed to Sisters M. A. Young,
Vilate Kimball and E. A. Whitney, from
which we quote a verse or two showing her
anxiety to be reunited with them.

"Oft my spirit seems to mingle
	With you, whereso'er you are;
Than you soon may reach the valley,
	Is my earnest daily prayer."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*

"All is well, is well in Zion—
	Zion is the pure in heart:
Come along, you holy women,
And your blessings here impart."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*

I anticipate the period
	When you to the valley come:
Haste and leave your Winter-Quarters—
	Here you'll find a better home."

	Peaceful and contented in her humble home;
full of faith and buoyant in spirit she trod the
path of duty. In the fall of 1848, Pres. Young
arrived in the valley, and this was a time of
public rejoicing and demonstration, and Sister
Eliza as was her wont chronicled in verse
the important event. It was entitled "The
Salutation" and inscribed to President Young
and his Counselors. The poem is published
in volume one of "Poems by E. R. Snow," page
196. We regret we cannot publish more of
her poetical writing in this short sketch, but
we will give here one verse from the "Saluta-
tion.

"To our Chieftain all hail to his counselors too,
	With the Camp of the Saints that escaped from Nau-
		voo;
"Up through great tribulation," indeed you have come-
	To this beautiful valley we welcome you home."

	After Pres. Young's arrival the city began
to be built up and he made arrangements for
his family to have comfortable homes though
of course they were primitive in all their ap-
pointments. These cottages are yet referred to
as the "Log Row," and were situated just above
what is known as the Eagle Gate. In one of
these Sister Eliza dwelt and many of her
choicest articles were written there. As time
passed on a place was consecrated in which
holy ordinances might be administered and
then it became necessary that woman should
perform her part of the sacred work. Sister
Eliza was called upon to take part in these
administrations, as a Priestess in the House of
the Lord, in which calling she has officiated
up to the present. Thousands of the daughters
of Zion, have received blessings under her hands,
and therefore with the utmost propriety she
may be called a Mother in Israel. In every
public assembly where women took part she
has been an active participant, and in Mormon
history she has been ever conspicuous. She
has written much both in prose and poetry for
public gatherings and demonstrations and
perhaps no other woman has attained such
popularity among this people. She is re-
cognized as a leader, and stands to-day in the
front rank and at the head of the Latter-day
Saint women's organizations. Sometime sub-
sequent to the settling of the valley and when
wards and settlements were pretty generally
systematized Pres. Young called for a reorgani-
zation of the Relief Society which had form-
erly existed in the days of Nauvoo. He called
on Sister Eliza to assist in these organizations,
and associate with her in this labor
Sister Zina D. Young. This gave to Eliza
and Zina the precedence which they have since
held. In the work of organizing Sister Eliza
stands pre-eminent among women.
	'Her life has been consecrated to Gospel
work and devoted to the elevation of woman
and her redemption from the condition in
which she has been so long held, helping to
lift her into that freedom of action and range
of thought from which custom and tradition

[Column 3]
have for ages excluded her. In this connection
we may with propriety mention that the opin-
ion of the world regarding woman's position in
this Church is entirely astray. The principles
and spirit of the Gospel are "altogether incom-
patible with the serfdom of woman." At a
mass meeting of 5 or 6 000 women held in Salt
Lake City Jan. 13, 1870, just previous to the
granting of the franchise, by the Utah Legis-
lature in Feb. of the same year, a woman's meet-
ing called on purpose to enter a protest against
the "Cullom Bill," Sister Eliza made a strong
and brilliant speech from which we make a
brief extract as illustrative of the assertion
made above. "Our enemies pretend that, in
Utah, woman is held in a state of vassalage—
that she does not act from choice but by coer-
sion—that we would even prefer life elsewhere,
were it possible for us to make our escape,
What nonsense! We all know that if we wished
we could leave at any time—either to go singly,
or to rise enmasse, and there is no power here
that could, or would wish to prevent us."
	"I will now ask of this assemblage of intelli-
gent ladies do you know of any place on the
face of the earth, where woman has more
liberty: and where she enjoys such high and
glorious privileges as she does here as a Latter-
day Saint? No! the very idea of a woman here
in a state of slavery is a burlesque on good
common sense."	*	*	*	Were we
the stupid, degraded, heart-broken beings that
we have been represented, silence might better
become us, but as women of God filling high
and responsible positions, performing sacred
duties—women who stand not as dictator, but
as counselors to their husbands, and who, in
the purest, noblest sense of refined womanhood,
are truly their helpmates—We not only speak
because we have the right but justice and hum-
anity demands we should."
	Politically this grand mass meeting was the
turning point in the history of the women of
Utah, for ere another month had elapsed the
legislature had passed the bill giving suffrage
to woman and she was free in the sense of cit-
izenship. In this Sister Eliza rejoiced feeling as
all spiritual women do impressed with the great
question of the period which involves woman's
emancipation. Sister Eliza realizes the im-
portance attached to these growing responsibili-
ties and the urgent necessity of educating
women to appreciate the ballot as well as to
exercise her physical agency by going to the
polls.
			[To be Continued.]


