SELECTED.

	The death of George Eliot will come with
a sense of personal loss to a large body of
readers in all parts of the world. The woman
was intensely English, but her genius was of
no country. She stood far above all rivals of
her own sex, and was foremost among the small
band of novelists whom the latter half of the
century has produced. Her nom de plume
was typical of her character. She had a woman's
keen intuitions joined to a masculine power of
analysis and strength of reasoning. Above
all, she had that superb imagination which is
given only to one or two writers in a century,
and that power of incarnating ethical truths
which none of her contemporaries possessed in
equal measure. She lived a laborious life,
frequently working with so great intensity as
to injure her health. She has left a noble in-
heritance to coming generations of readers.
	Her genius gathered about her a circle of
admirers, but society did not look kindly upon
her. CHARLOTTE BRONTE has depicted the


loneliness of a woman "hearing the nations
praising her from afar," while her own heart
is hungry for the homely love and affection of
the fire-side. The marriage of the author, of
"Jane Eyre" was almost as singular as the
latest union of George Eliot. When her first
youth was gone she espoused a country curate,
whose only claim to consideration was his de-
votion to her. Many of George Eliot’s ad-
mirers professed to be greatly grieved at her
action in marrying so soon after the death of
GEORGE HENRY LEWES. She might have
replied to these critics, as NAPOLEON did to
the remonstrances of the jealous JOSEPINE,
that she was not to be judged by the same
rules as ordinary women. The great Emperor
expressed in his terse phrase the truth, that
genius is a law unto itself in directing that ex-
uberant energy which is at once its curse and
its blessing. George Eliot was kept from vio-
lating morality as she did conventional laws,
by her English blood and training. Born and
bred in France she would, no doubt, have re-
peated in her life the career of George Sand.
This "large-brained woman and large-hearted
man," who gave so great an impulse to French
literature, lived what we would call a very
immoral life until the fire of her passions was
quenched with years. But there is no question
that she strove to be a reformer to the best of
her light—as earnestly as ANNA DICKINSON
does in our day.
	George Eliot, in her own way, has done much
to influence English character. To the world-
wide audience of readers of her novels she has
preached the sermon of self-restraint, high en-
deavor, and obedience to that moral law that
speaks to every man and woman in accents
that cannot fail to be understood. She shows
the consequences of its violation in "Adam
Bede" and "Romola"—the two novels that will
live longest in popular regard. In her other
works she has meted out justice with unsparing
hand, smiting the weak-willed and those strick-
en with moral paralysis. But it is only in a
single short poem that she sums up her creed.
In that hymn, "O may I join the Choir Invis-
ible," she rests her faith, not alone on the hope of
immortality, but on the power of genius to live
through from age to age, upholding and
strengthening sorely tempted and struggling
souls. This one poem embodies the hopes and
aspirations of a large sect of English rational-
ists. They have no faith in the God or the im-
mortality of the Christian religion. They believe
only in the life and the possibilities of living
hereafter, by virtue of the work done here, as
SHAKESPERE and MILTON live to-day among
English-speaking people in all parts of the
globe. This faith she expresses in these grand
opening lines:

	O, may I join the choir invisible
Of those immortal dead who live again
In minds made better by their presence; live
In pulses stirred to generosity,
In deeds of daring rectitude, in scorn
For miserable alms that end in self—
In thoughts sublime that pierce the night like stars,
And, with their mild persistence urge man'lfs search
To vaster issues.
					So to live is heaven;
To make undying music in the world.


