HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE second edition of the "Children's Primary,
Hymn Book" will be ready for sale in about ten
days. Plenty of "Tune Books" ready at this
office.

	SISTERS M. I. Horne and S. M. Heywood at-
tended the Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake, which was held at Centerville Jan. 21,
Mrs. S. I. Holmes presiding. The meetings
were excellent and the reports creditable.

	THE Home Dramatic Club gave "The Bank-
er's Daughter" at the Theatre on Wednesday
evening, Jan. 26, for the benefit of the Alta suf-
ferers. The citizens of Salt Lake manifested
their appreciation of the play and the occasion
by filling the house.

	SISTER Eliza's birthday, Jan 21, was celebrated
in St. George with due honor, as well as in Og-
den. Although in St. George they had the
pleasure of the presence of this illustrious lady,
and in Ogden we were compelled to supply the
deficiency with a fertile imagination. Mrs. E.
R. S. Smith has reached her 77th anniversary.
She is healthy and vigorous in body and mind,
and her spiritual faculties grow brighter as each
year rolls by.

	BRO. Wm. G. Heberhart has opened business
at the old stand of H. J. Richards & Co. Bro.
Heberhart is an enterprising young man and
thoroughly reliable as a druggist, having been
disciplined in the business in his brother's es-
tablishment in Madison, Indiana. Since he
came to Utah in June, 1879, he has been em-
ployed in Z. C. M. I. Drug Department, until
he bought out the Richard's establishment. Bro.
H. is an industrious and persevering young man,
and worthy the patronage of the public.

	MISS Ada Dwyer of this city, a pupil of Prof.
Hamill, the elocutionist, has been giving read-
ings as a professional in Utah County. Her ren-
dering of the pieces chosen produced quite a
sensation, we are told. As we have never, heard
her, we are not prepared to express an opinion.


[Column 1]
but she is highly spoken of by those who are
considered competent judges. Miss Ada is
young, and possesses many excellent capabili-
ties which would attract an audience. She
has fine ability, and we have no doubt will be
successful, if she possesses sufficient continuity
and determination. One cannot win fame in
any profession without these requisites.

	THURSDAY, Jan. 20, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Over forty of her friends called upon her in the
form of a surprise party, at her residence in the
11th Ward. After partaking of the bountiful
repast served to all, the ladies' attention was
called to a sort of literary entertainment. Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson read a poem composed ex-
pressly for the occasion by Mrs. A. J. Chroche-
ron, and presented Mrs. Shipp, in the name of a
few friends, with an elegant gold ring, on which
was engraven her name and Y. L. A. This was
followed by an original poem, Mrs. M. A. Freeze;
impromptu addresses, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Ro-
mania B. Pratt, M. D.; original article, Lillle
Freeze; recitation, "Jennie Mc'Neal's Ride,"
Alice Freeze; and other similar exercises. A
happy spirit was manifested throughout all the
varied entertainment of the evening. Dr. Shipp
was warmly congratulated by her many ardent
and true-hearted friends.

	AN anniversary meeting of the 17th Ward Y.
L. M. I. A. was held, and entertainment given,
at the residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, on
Tuesday, Jan. 18. Opened by singing, "Let Zion
in her beauty rise;" prayer by Pres. H. T. King.
Annual report was read by the Secretary, fol-
lowed by a song by Miss Minnie Felt, "Call and
Answer." Mrs Nanie Leavitt essay on the
"Creation of Man." Miss Louie Ellerbeck piano
solo. Miss Mamie Alford recitation. Address
by Mrs. Hannah T. King. Impromptu address
Miss Belle Clayton. Remarks were then made
suited to the occasion by Mrs. E. S. Taylor, M.
A. Freeze, Marinda Hyde, M. I Horne, Julia
Howe, E. B. Wells, Louie Felt, Miss Minnie
Felt and Nanie Leavitt, and Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood. Singing, "The Spirit of God." Prayer
by Sister Catharine Horrocks. After the meet-
ing was dismissed, the ladies all sat down to a
delicious repast, which, with the conversation
and association together, was calculated to re-
fresh and invigorate body and soul. An hour or
two was passed in friendly interchange of ideas
and opinions, and the guests and members dis-
persed, feeling it had been a good time indeed.

	ON Thursday, Jan. 20, we attended the annual
meeting of the 10th Ward Y. L. M. I. A. A
sumptuous dinner was given at 12 m., at the
residence of the President, Mrs. Mary Pierce.
After partaking, the ladies repaired to the meet-
ing house, and services commenced by singing
"Behold the Mountain of the Lord." Prayer by
Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Sung, "O my Father, thou
that dwellest." Minutes read and accepted.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze made the opening speech,
Mrs. Louie Felt was the next speaker, then Mrs.
E. S. Taylor and Miss Mattie Horne. Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. H. T. King
a[-]d Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall made some remarks.
The sisters expressing an earnest wish to hear
from the young ladies, the following responded
in short and spirited speeches: Ella Rogers, Jen-
nie Pyper, Annie Chandler, Harriet Earl, Eliza
Hansen, Martha Pierce, Agnes Harvey, M. Ed-
monds and Belle Clayton, also Mrs. Cheshire.
Mrs. Pierce expressed her pleasure in having so
many of the most intelligent sisters present,
who were able to give instruction. Meeting ad-
journed. Sung, "The Spirit of God," &c.
Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.

[Column 2]
	BISHOP Jacob Weiler and wife, of the Third
Ward in this city, recently paid a visit to their
friends in the East. They left Salt Lake Sept.
14, 1880, and went first to Hutchinson, Kansas,
where the Bishop's brother resides. They also
visited portions of Iowa, Indiana, Ohio and
Pennsylvania, traveling extensively in the last
two States. Everywhere the people were anx-
ious to converse with them about the resources
of Utah and the peculiarities of the "Mormon"
people, but few cared to hear the principles of
religion. Mrs. Weiler conversed with many
women of superior education and culture upon
the principle of plural marriage, and its adapta-
tion to p.actical life. Brother and Sister Weiler
found in many instances that all the informat-
tion the people had concerning the "Mormons"
had been gathered from books written against
us. Ann Eliza's, Mrs. Stenhouse's and Biddle's
Books were pretty widely circulated. Thought
some pamphlets would be useful to distribute in
those places. Mrs. Weiler believes much good
could be done among an intelligent class of peo-
ple by our sisters, for they seem eager to listen
to women on these subjects when men would
have no iuflue[-]ce; in fact they would not hear
them. Mr. and Mrs. Weiler returned on the
18th of December.


