ALLEGORY.

	The clock had passed the stroke of the
eleventh hour of the last day of 1880. A
slowly burning fire, that ever and anon flick-
ered with a pale, tremulous glow—now light-
ing the room, then sinking low, till naught
but lurid shadows filled the place—was burn-
ing on the hearth. Dreamily my mind went
back through light and darkness to every
place the past year had borne me, in its arms
of power irresistible. A personage was with
me now—a pale, wan figure, with the mark of
death set deep upon his brow. It was the old
year. He approached me with extended hand:
"Farewell," he said, "I soon must go; I pray,
you that when I am gone you will think of
me kindly." I shrank from him, refused his
hand, and sternly I replied: "Think of you
kindly? No. Why should one throb of ten-
derness e’er move my heart toward one who,
when he first crossed my threshold, was laden
with care, sickness and disappointment, and
bound the burden on my weary soul. Yet
more, my house was filled with those my eyes
so dearly loved to look upon; yon have re-
moved nearly all of these far from me; you
have robbed us of our home, and now you seek
to part with me in friendship! Get you gone!
Away with you, I say! let oblivion cover all
your evil ways.
	"Sister," said a soft and mellow voice, "for-
give." In an instant 1880 passed like a shadow
from my sight. One now stood near me who
had been hidden by the figure, which was gone
like vapor from the room. This last one came
with firm, elastic step, his eye was full of ten-
derness and truth, his brow, though clothed
with power, was softened by the beams of mercy
and forgiveness. He took my hand with pity-
ing look, and all at once the hardness of my
heart was gone—I only felt good will and
peace toward all mankind. He spoke again:
"I am your coming year; I am 1881, and I
command all men, by word from heaven, that
at every coming year they do forgive the past.
I have been everywhere evil spoken against,
yet not by you nor yours. In me you all have
hope. In me you can trust, if you will well
and truly act as I shall you instruct. Hold in
your heart sacred the sensations of kindness
and sympathy for Adam’s fallen race; a for-
giving spirit toward those who err, as now you


are  moved  upon  by  me  to  do.  Love  your
neighbor  as  yourself, and  the  most holy com-
mandments  well  and  truly keep, you will  not
part  with  me  as  with  my  predecessor;   for
among all  my tenderest  cares will I remember
you  and  your  loved ones,  all  who were spared
by 1880, and given to me in trust.   Then  when
all the former yea[-]s shall come before the judg-
ment  seat  of  Him  who  had  appointed  them
their  times,  I  too  will   come  and  testify that
while  I  traveled  with  the  earth around upon
her  circle  in  the  heavens, thou wast true and
faithful  in  all  the  things  that  make  man
worthy, by  forgiving  to  be  forgiven, and hav-
ing  kept  the  law  of  God, so  far  as  I can  be
your witness, art  entitled  to  partake with  the
just of the leaves of the tree of life eternal.
	M. J. C.


