DRESS.

	Dress is a subject that occupies no small
amount of the time and means of many people;
indeed, instead of eating and dressing to live, it
seems as though they lived to eat, dress and ap-
pear well in the estimation of their friends and
neighbors. We do not like to see people penu-
rious in either of these respects; on the contrary
we think to "live well," as it is generally termed,
to dress comfortably and tastefully, and to own
a suitably large, well lighted, commodious and
attractive residence, well situated, is essential
to and almost the foundation of our happiness;
while, on the other hand, poverty, wretchedness
and often disease are easily traced in a small,
cold, damp, uninviting abode.
	There are those in comfortable circumstances
that were a little more time and taste expended
it would amply repay; while any sensible mind
would condemn the extravagance of some of
our wealthier class, to say nothing of Queen
Elizabeth, who is said to have left three thou-
sand different habits in her wardrobe.
	We think that climate is the "general regula-
tor" of dress, together with the different na-
tional customs. In some warm countries sandals
take the place of s[-]oes, and in eastern countries
flowing garments take the place of the more
closely fitting of those lying west, while the Es-
quimaux and those inhabiting intensely cold cli-
mates are mostly dressed in fur. A Russian
grouped among other Europeans can generally
be easily pointed out, also the Scotchman with
his kilt of plaid. The attire of the peasantry
in many European nations is picturesque and
very gaudy, while that of the rich is fine and
costly.
	The first dress that we have any account of
was that worn by Adam and Eve; the Bible
tells us that they made themselves aprons of fig
leaves, and that afterwards God made them
coats of the skins of beasts. The New Testa-
ment informs us that Christ dressed like a Naza-
rene. 
	Jewelry has, since the time that Abraham's 
servant gave an earring and two bracelets to Re-
becca up to the present, in all ages and countries,
occupied a prominent place in the attire of both
sex.
	Livingstone informs us that fashion is fashion,
and there is no disputing on that subject, that
there may be a fashion of going undressed or
dressed—the former is the fashion in some parts
of Africa, and some of the men wear aprons of
beautifully tanned skins; and both the men and
women of Belonda thought themselves splen-
didly attired if they could get a few feet of bright
cloth to wrap about the neck or body.
	The taste of dress in our own day among our-
selves is rather unaccountable, even though the
fashions do come from Paris. We have often
dressed ridiculously, that style has become un-
fashionable, odd, uncomfortable and odious, just
on account of a later one being introduced,
while before it was "perfectly lovely." Then, in
about seven years the old style comes up as
"lovely" as ever, while the others in their turn
are frowned on.
	But God has given us a rule in the Doctrine and
Covenants which should guide us. He says;
"And again thou shalt not be proud in thy heart,
let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty
the beauty of the work of thine own hands, and
let all things be done in cleanliness before me."
Though these instructions were given (for our
benefit) to Joseph Smith, some years ago, com-
mon sense tells us that they still hold good, and
though in following them we may not always
follow the fashion, if we obey God's other in-
structions we may be followers of Christ, and
sit down to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb,
having on a wedding garment.
