WOMAN DEFENDS THE POSITION.

	Naturally one cannot help feeling a little in-
dignant at the course pursued by Gov. Murray
in issuing the certificate of election to Mr. Camp-
bell who only received 1,357 instead of Mr. Can-
non who received the overwhelming majority of
18,558. It is not very remarkable that women
citizens who represent a large part of the votes
of the Territory should feel nettled over the
affair; it is well known that a short time previ-
ous to the election a mandamus was issued or-
dering all the names of women to be stricken off
the registration list, which would have materi-
ally decreased the number of votes on both sides
and by that means the "Liberal" party expected
to carry the election. This little scheme did
not succeed, the good genius of woman pervailed
on that occasion and her claim to the franchise
was honorably sustained. Yes this is one of the
pleas made by Campbell in extenuation of Mur-
ray's official assumption that the votes cast for
Mr. Cannon were the votes of women and con-
sequently illegal. How very magnaminous!
How everybody must admire this noble man,
who to screen the governer must draw such a
flimsy veil over him and throw the blame upon
woman! How grandly Mr. Campbell heralded
forth his nomination by urging women every-
where to vote for him, as their friend one who
would take their part, lift them up, exalt them!
How specially gratifying is the result! How
magnaminous he stands forth in woman's de-
fense! It is strange how men will persist in the
same course pursued ages ago, and cry "The
woman did it," and the newspapers must for-
sooth echo the old-time saying "Woman is at
the bottom of the mischief," even thongh they
do not justify Gov. Murray.
	It is a great pity for Mr. Campbell that he
should have manifested so little justice in an
affair where he professed so much gallantry, for
should he desire to be counted in by the ladies
again, he would make a sorry showing.
	There is no doubt in the mind of any well-
informed person that Mr. Cannon would have
been elected by a considerable majority, had
Maxwell's plan succeeded, and all the women
of Utah been disfranchised. The non-Mormon
population is comparatively small, and the peo-
ple had nothing whatever to fear on that score
by the disfranchisement of woman. It was not
a question of the strength of numbers that
caused the Utah Legislature to concede to wo-
man her political rights, but because the very
genius of "Mormonism" required it, and this
truth will one day be recognized.
	Once having obtained the right to the ballot,
it is not likely that any woman valuing the
blessing and p[-]ivilege truly as an American
citizen, will be likely to look with any degree of
complacency on those who would wrest it from

[Column 2]
her. "Mormon" women vote on all religious
questions, on all political question, on all social
questions, in fact they are a "part and parcel of
the body politic," and are not "goods and chat-
tels," not serfs, but free women, with the liberty
of conscience and of action. They have en-
dured much, and are strong, not weak, and their
daughters have inherited their strength of
character,and are prepared with their brothers to
valiantly maintain the position of their mothers
on this question of rights and privileges. They
are a strength and a power in the land, even
without the ballot, and when men talk of help-
ing "Mormon" women to free themselves from
thralldom and oppression, they talk the veriest
nonsense. "Mormon" women do not need their
aid: with the same courage and fortitude, which
helped them to brave the wilderness and desert,
with their fathers, husbands and brothers, they
are still endowed: their courage does not falter,
and they are not easily intimidated. They trust
in the arm of the Almighty and not in the arm
of flesh.


[Column 1]
