ITEMS FROM NAZARETH.

* * * * At this moment we
are having a very striking reminder of the
expression in Jeremiah—“The voice of the
bridegroom, and the voice of the bride"—which
says nothing to us Westerners because our
brides and bridegrooms do not lift up their 
voices. A little while ago, 4 p. m., I heard a
sound as of a distant multitude shouting and
singing. I looked out and saw coming over
the brow of one of the hills on the other side
of the town, a gay procession, hundreds of peo-

[Column 2]
ple singing, shouting, firing guns, &c. They
were bringing a bride from one of the outside
villages. With Mrs. Gilbert's glass we could
distinguish many camels gaily decked with
carpets, rugs and scarlet cloth, and Miss Tan-
ner told us that the bride's trousseau is also
displayed on these camels. The bride rides on
a horse—very probably for the first time in
her life—and is taken to the house of a friend,
the people all chanting, as they pass slowly on,
verses in praise of her beauty and perfections,
that remind one of the songs of Solomon.
	When the bride was safely housed, we heard
in another direction the procession of the
bridegroom, who was being taken to the house
of one of his friends, where he will be feted
and congratulated, and have verses sung in his 
praise also. The friends of the bride are in 
the meantime weeping and condoling with her,
as well they may, for though the affair as seen
from the outside looks very Biblical, she is in-
deed to be pitied, for women are kept in such
a degraded condition here, it fills one with in-
dignation. Eastern brides generally get a
sound thrashing from their husbands as an in-
troduction into married life, "just to make
them know their place." To-night there will
be a grand torchlight procession, more firing 
of guns, chanting, etc., etc., and every day un-
til Sunday, when the marriage will be cele-
brated at church or mosque, according as the
bridegroom is Moslem or Christian, and all
will be finished up by the grandest torchlight
procession, when the bride is taken to her 
tyrant's home.
	Sunday. I little knew that the wind up of
the wedding was going to be a fearful riot, but
so it was, and we had truly a bad time of it,
coming home from Church with our sixty
panic-stricken children. We were about three
hundred yards from the church when there
was a block and a panic, and we heard that
there was a serious riot going on between the
Greeks and the Latins in the street. The C.
M. S. school was the nearest place of refuge,
and we were most thankful when we had
placed our sixty children inside; they were all
in a state of the utmost panic, big and little,
and just babies. There was no getting them
to understand a word, and we had just to drag
and push them just where we wanted them to
go. The stones, which are still the missiles of
this country, always handy and always abun-
dant, we could see flying thickly about the low
flat houses, and we heard of many being se-
riously wounded. Then it seems the party
who were getting the worst of it, rushed up the
hill above the house, the pursuers following;
and as night was falling, it was considered ad-
visable for us to try and gain our home before
the rioters returned into the town. That was
a bad time for us, for having so many little
ones with us, we could not climb the hill very
fast, and there were big stones, larger than I
could lift, lying thickly in the path, where the
worst of the fray had been. All the way there
was the fear that we meet the rest of the rab-
ble returning before we gained the shelter of
our home. We could see figures rampaging 
about our land, and thought: "Oh, if only we
had a wall built!" Yakoob was on the lookout
for us in a great state of anxiety, and at last
we all got inside the gates, and could breathe
again. Then we went up on the roof to see
how matters were going, and we could hear the
shouts and shrieks, but the combatants were
just over the brow of the hill, and all we could
see were the stragglers, whose figures stood out
clearly all along the ridge, against the sunset 
sky. Such a glorious sunset it was, and to
think of what was going on under it, on that
very hill where we are sure Jesus of Nazareth
spent many an hour of quiet communion with
His Father, and that He was looking down on
these Christians! raging like demons over those
spots which they profess to hold sacred for His

[Column 3]
sake. Night comes on very suddenly here,
and as the noise on the hill died away with the
dying light, we can only suppose that the dif-
ferent parties returned to their homes under
cover of the darkness, and must wait till to-
morrow to know what it was about. * *
	Monday. This, it appears, was the upshot
of the riot: It seems the Governor of Naza-
reth went out to quell the riot, but the Latins
were too bold for him; they took his karboosch
(fez cap) and broke his head, and then he took
refuge in the house of a Greek. This morning
he sent his soldiers to bring up the offenders,
and received the answer: "We are not at lei-
sure, we are drinking today." And so the
thing ends. Every one knows of course that
he has been bribed heavily; the Latins are rich
and powerful, and they have a fiery little fel-
low, Fra Giuseppe, who never allows any one
of their persuasion to be punished. If a Latin
has committed murder even, and flies to the
convent for sanctuary, Fra Giuseppe is certain
to get him off. I have just heard of a sad
proof that we can reckon but little on the sta-
bility of our converts here. A woman who
has professed Christianity for years has now
gone back to Moslemism, because Mr. Huber
did not give her a dress at Christmas. I am
sorry to acknowledge that here as elsewhere;
"the loaves and fishes" too often influence a
person's religious opinions.	TEACHER.


