CONTINUED.

	All that long summer the gold fever in-
creased, and a tide of humanity went surging
past, making Salt Lake their resting place, and
the little oasis in the desert became a business
centre and a place of rest. The miners came
with wagons, but, owing to the nature of the
mountain country, thought it expedient to
finish their journey with pack animals. This
gave employment to many of the citizens in fit-
ting up saddles and the necessary outfit for
packing. Their jaded animals were exchanged
for fresh ones, their wagons together with all
sorts of farming utentsils, machinery, stoves,
trunks and clothing of all sorts,were exchanged
with the citizens or sold at a mere nominal
price. It was a God-send to the poor, destitute
inhabitants, affording them implements to
work with, and even provisions, meat, flour,
cheese, crackers, fruit and groceries, were sold
of given in large quantities to the settlers, who
gave thanks to God for all his mercies and
went to work with renewed faith and courage.
Jesse had left his business in charge of his
partner, who was a good, honest man in his
way, but of no business capability. The saw-
mill was good property,and lumber in demand,
but he only managed to make a scanty living
for his own family and very little for Mary.
Jesse's friend, John Somers, had promised him
before he went, that while he had anything
Mary should not suffer. He went to Green
River in company with others to ferry over the
emigrants receiving in payment, many things
for the comfort of his family. He brought
Mary a small cooking stove which she prized
highly, as she had thought never to own such
an article again when she left her home.
	That fall some men came in from California
bringing news of the absent ones,for there were
no mails in those days. Jesse sent Mary
four hundred dollars in gold, to be divided
with his partner, according to contract. He
had arrived at his destination after many hard-
ships, and after resting awhile from his fatigue,
had found work at his trade as boss carpenter,
at good wages and sent the proceeds to his
family. To Minnie it seemed like a fairy tale
to see so much gold and she expected her father
would soon come home with so much that they
could have everything they wanted. Poor
child, she hardly realized what all they wanted
might mean; she knew little of the require-
ments of life,nor how one want supplied makes
way for another. Blessed are the humble poor,
so long as want and starvation does not assail
them, their homes are happier and more free
from care than the mansions of the rich. Her

[Column 2]
mind was full of anticipations, everything
would be bright and happy when her father
came. She did not care much if he would
only come, she always had everything as others
had, so far as she saw, he had always provided,
and why should he not always do so. It would
be so bright and happy if he was only at home
she did not care for the gold if father would
only come. Childish logic certainly but how
much better for all if Jesse could have
seen it in the same light; how many slow tor-
turing years might have been spared them,
what sorrow and care and desolation: but the
excitement was strong and gold seemed the
surest way to happiness.
	To Mary it meant comforts for herself, and
rest for Jesse. He had always worked hard,he
would be an old man after awhile, and it would
be nice to have a good home and comforts for
their old age, and gold might bring them even
there,for were they not promised that the wil-
derness should blossom as the rose; that Zion
should be established in the tops of the moun-
tains; and peace and plenty should reign in their
midst. There were many hardships in settling
a new country, especialy one so isolated from
navigation, where all means for improvement
had to be imported so many miles in ox-teams.
The farming required so much labor on ac-
count of irrigation, and all the wood and
lumber had to be hauled from those dreadful
canons at the risk of life and limbs, and many
a good man was killed or crippled while labor-
ing on the mountains. They had come to set-
tle in peace where they could rest secure from
their enemies. They had been robbed, and
plundered, and driven, but they had come so
far away that no one would care to molest
them, the country was such a barren desert,
that no one would wish to wrest it from them.
Here at least, they would find rest, they would
build cities, rear temples, and improve the
country, worshiping God according to his re-
vealed will without fear or molestation. It was
said, "seek first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness, and all else shall be added."
They had left father, mother, home and friends
for Christ's sake, and if they were faithful to
their covenants, and true to themselves and to
God, He would bless them in all their under-
stakings.
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
[Sketch of boy harvesting some type of crop with the words
"WARNER'S", "SAFE", "KIDNEY & LIVER", "CURE" written on the sketch]

	Is made from a Simple  Tropical  Leaf  of  Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the  diseases  that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of  the  Kidneys, Liver,  and  Urinary  Organs.  For  Fe-
male Diseases, it  has  no  equal.   It  restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It  is  the only known  remedy that  cures Bright's Dis-
ease.  For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists  and  Dealers  at  $1,25  per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market.  Try it.
	H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

[Column 2]
	CLASS  IN  MIDWIFERY.
DR.  ROUMWNIA  B.  PRATT  WILL BEGIN  A  NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building,  March 1st, 1881.  Students  should send  their
names in time for books to be procured.
