BELOVED BRETHEREN AND SISTERS:
	We have met this evening, not only to mingle
in friendly and social converse, in dancing and
feasting, but also to commemorate the birthday
of our dear sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, who is
at present in Southern Utah, and who, in conse-
quence of her prolonged visit there, is unable to
be with us on this occasion. We sincerely re-
gret her absence, knowing, as we do, that her
presence would add immeasurably to the plea-
sure of this evening's entertainment. We deem
it not inappropriate at this time to express, hum-
bly and briefly, the heartfelt love, esteem and
respect that we cherish towards her as a sister,
friend, and co-laborer in the Kingdom of God.
We appreciate her labors, though it may be im-
perfectly, and thank our Heavenly Father for
the blessing of so noble and useful a woman in
our midst. Many, if not all, who are here to-
night are acquainted with Sister Eliza's untiring
efforts in assisting to organize and establish the
various Relief Societies and Improvement As-
sociations in this Stake of Zion. We have seen
her brave the winds and storms of winter, and
the heat and dust of summer, that we might be
benefited. We have listened to her faithful
testimonies, her wise counsels and instructions,
and our minds have been enlightened, our hearts
cheered, and with renewed courage we have
pressed forward in the path of duty. Through
her great faith and power to bless, many a weak
and suffering sister has been made to rejoice.
Then why should we not love, respect and
honor her? To one who has devoted her time
and talents to the cause of truth, who has sacri-
ficed all for the Gospel's sake, surely honor is
due. Therefore we, the Latter-day Saint women
of Weber Stake, desire to do homage to her, on
this, the anniversary of her natal day. She is
dear to us all. Her intellectual works are house-
hold treasures. The young, for whose welfare
and improvement she has labored with such
deep earnestness, if they fail to appreciate her
now, will yet bless her name. She has truly
shown her faith by her works, and through her
works she has wrought out an influence for good
that can never die. She has lived long and well;


and though ripe in years and usefulness, may
she live yet many years to bless and be blessed.
And may we, the members of the Relief So-
ciety and Young Ladies' Association, imitate
the example of this good and true woman, and
strive to learn to appreciate the labors of those
who have braved persecution, confronted evil,
served long and faithfully in righteousness, and
have proved themselves noble men and women
of God.
						HATTIE C. BROWN.
	Ogden, January 21, 1881.


