KANAB.

	The Annual Conference of the Belief Socie-
ties, of the Kanab Stake of Zion, was held at
Orderville Dec. 9, 1880. Counselor Harriet
Bunting presiding. Metting opened by sing-
ing "Sweet is the Work" and prayer by Pres't.
Lousia Spencer, sang "O awake my slumbering
minstrel."
	Minutes of previous Conference and statis-
tical and financial reports read and accepted

[Column 2]
There was a good verbal report given by the
Presidents of the different wards. Coun.
Bunting said, she was thankful for the privil-
ege of again, meeting with the sisters in the
capacity of a Conference,considered it a privil-
ege to have Pres't. Nuttall visit us, was glad
he was so well pleased, with the labors of the
sisters in the different Wards. Sister Bunting
wished the sistars to make a special effort, to
obtain means to help gather the poor Saints.
Urged upon the sisters the necesity of puncual-
ity in attending meeting. Hoped that we all
would take the counsel of Brother and Sister
Nuttall, to be united and of one heart, in our
labors. Made other excellent remarks.
	Prest. H. O. Spencer said, he was desirious
of sustaining the societies in every good thing.
He also wished the sisters to sustain home
manufacture, it is a part of our great mission,
to do this, that we may sustain ourselves tem-
porally.
	Prest. J. L. Bunting felt great pleasure in
meeting with the sisters, thought that a com-
pliment was due them for the many efforts they
had made. Opposition we must expect in this
world, but we must meet it as becoming
Saints. Once we had not the organizations,
that we have at the present time, consequently
we could not do then as we can now.
	Why are the Saints required to perform the
labors of making quilts, hats &c., and of
gathering wheat? That they may be economical
and a saving of the means of existence; that
we may be independent of the outside world.
It appears that the brethren to a certain
extent, have failed in many things, and the
sisters have been called upon to assist the
brethren, and they have made many praise-
worthy efforts. Urged the sisters to pray in
their families, in the absence of their husbands;
also to do what they could to help gather the
poor Saints.
	Elders, Chamberlain, Robinson, Pugh and
Rider, gave some good counsel to the sisters.
Sang "Let Zion in her beauty rise." Dismised
by Elder J. R. Jound.
	STATISTICAL Reports.—Teachers, 68; meet-
ings held 297; average attendance 50.
	FINANCIAL:—On hand last report $265,04;
receipts, $151,25; disbursements, $137,52; In
treasury. $27,97.
	We hoped to have the pleasure of a visit
from Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. Young,
while on their visit South, but were very much
disappointed. Wishing yourself and all the
sisters a happy and a prosperous New Year. I
remain your sister in the Gospel.
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Stake Sec'y.


