LIFE INCIDENTS. 
	    		   -------
	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.
			  --------
		   [CONTINUED.]
	There are thousands  who  can  testify  to  the
truth  of  the  words  contained  in  the  charge
given  by  Brother O. Cowdery to  the  Twelve
Apostles previous to starting on their first mis-
sion, and although he was among the ones who
first turned aside, yet we know that  he  spoke
by  the  spirit and  power  of  the  Almighty, for
his words have been fufilled. The Church at
that time was but  a little handful,  as it were,
and therefore  weak  in  faith  when  compared
with those who have  had a  longer  experience
and can see and better understand the purposes
of our Heavenly  Father.  If  we have  not im-
proved it is because we have  witnessed the
fulfillment of the Prophet  Joseph's words from
that day to this and how can we doubt the rest.
When I think  of the miraculous power that has
been  manifested  at different  times  in  our  de-
liverance  from  the  cunning  devices  of  our
enemies  and  to  witness  the  faith  and  hope
which the Saints have clung to, enabling them
to patiently endure the sneers and scoffs of the
world, and  all the  aggravating trails which
have been heaped  upon  them for  over  fifty
years, I wonder that  anybody can be so blind
as not  see and  realize  that  none but Saints
who are looking to the future beyond this short
piobation for their  reward, could or would for
a moment submit to  these wrongs;  but we can
afford to wait for we know that  the  Almighty,
who has fought  our  battles  will  continue to,
and overthrow  our enemies  if we  faithfully
perform  our part.
	The following interesting  sketches  are from
my fathers Journal.
 After giving a description of the house of the
Lord in  Kirtland he says:  "This building was
commenced  in  1833,  in poverty and  without
means  to do it. In 1834  they completed  the
walls, and in 1835 and 6  they  nearly  finished
it.  The cost was  between  60 and 70,000 dol-
lars. *	*	* The  house was  dedicated to
the Lord on the 27th day of March  1836. *
*	* During the  ceremonies of the dedica-
tion an angel appeared and sat near President
Joseph Smith, Sen., and Frederick G. Williams
so that they had a fair view of his person. He
was a very tall  personage,  black  eyes, white
hair, and  stoop  shouldered,  his garment was
white, extending to near his ankles, on his feet
he had sandals.  He was sent as  a  messenger
to accept of the dedication. *	  *	  *
	In the winter of 1834 and 35, all the princi-
pal Elders in  upper  Missouri  came down to
Kirtland according to  previous appointment.
Some of them  spent  the summer laboring on
the house, while others traveled and  preached
in the Eastern and Southern States."
	Among the outside world there has been and
still is an  impression  that the "Mormons" are
not particular about having schools, or educat-
ing their children.  This  of course is only one
out of many other false ideas cherished by them
against the Latter-day  Saints.  The following
which I copy  from my father's Journal shows
that they are ignorant  of our faith and princi-
ples, for  it  was  a  command that the  Saints
should  seek learning &c.  "In  the  fall,  and
early part of the winter  of  1835-6  the Priest-
hood  of Israel  consisting  of  elders, priests,
teachers and deacons, gathered to Kirtland to
the number  of four hunderd and  sixteen who
remained there  through  the  winter.  Schools
were instituted  for  their  use;  many studied
English  Grammar, Geography,  History and
other branches.  We also  employed  the cele-
brated  Hebrew teacher  Professer Leixas, who
gave us much  insight into the language in a
short time.  The first  Presidency, the Twelve,
Bishops, High Counselors and Elders, attended
this school.  The Elders and Church had been
previously commanded to  seek learning, study
the best  books and  get a  knowledge of coun-
tries, kingdoms, languages, &c., which inspired
us  with an  untiring  thirst  after  knowledge.
Several months  previous to this we had been
commanded to prepare ourselves for a solemn
assembly. At length the time arrived for this
assembly to meet, previous to  which President
Joseph  Smith  Jun., exhorted  the  Elders to
solemnize their minds, by casting  away  every
evil from  them  in  thought, word,  or  deed,
and  to  let  their  hearts  become sanctified,
because they need to expect  a  blessing from
God without being  duly prepared  for it, for
the Holy  Ghost would  not  dwell  in unholy
temples. *	*	* The solemn assembly took
place soon  after  the  House of  the  Lord had
been dedicated."  After  describing  the  cere-
monies of washing and anointing and conferring
blessings upon  the  President  and  Counselors
and the  different  quorums,  father continues.
"While these things were being attended to the
beloved discple John was seen in our midst by
Brother Joseph Smith Jun.  Oliver Cowdrey
and others.  After  this all the quorums arose
in order together with  the  three  presidencies;
and the Twelve  then  presenting  themselves
separately  and  individually  before  the  first
Presidency, with hand uplifted towards heaven,
asked of God whatever they felt to desire; and
after each individual petition, the whole of the
quorums answered  aloud  Amen  and Amen.
The 6th day of April being the  day  appointed
for fasting and praying, all the Elders, Priests,
Teachers and Deacons,  numbering  about four
hundred,  met  together  in  the  house  of the
Lord to attend to  further  ordinances none be-
ing premited to enter, but official members who
had previously received their washing  and an-
ointing."  After the  ordinances were attended
to, father  continues.  "They  then  took their
seats, each quorum seating  themselves in their 
respective places and continued in fasting and
praying prophesying and exhortation until even-
ing.  A sufficient quantity of bread having been
provided to  feed  this  whole assembly; it was
broken by the first Presidency, and afterwards
the  Twelve took  it and  administered  to the
congregation until they were all filled."
	The wine was made and provided by Bishop
N.  K.  Whitney  for  this  occasion.  It  was
blessed by the first Presidency and  distributed
to the congregation by the Twelve;  father says,
"This  order  of  things is similar to  that which
was attended to by the Savior amongst his dis-
ciplos, previous to his ascension.  * *  The
meeting  continued  on  through the night, the
spirit  of  prophecy  was  poured  out  upon  the
assembly, and cloven  tongues  of fire  sat upon
them;  they were  seen  by  many  of  the  congre-
gation.  Also  angels  administered  to many,
and also were  seen  by  many.  This  continued
several  days, and  was  attended  by  a  marvel-
ous  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  for  a  number  of
weeks  our  time  was  spent  in  visiting  from
house  to  house, administering bread  and wine
and pronouncing blessings  upon  each  other to
that degree, that from the external appearances
one  would  have  supposed  that  the  last  days
had  surely  come,  in  which  the  Spirit  of  the
Lord  was  poured  out  upon all flesh, as far as
the  church  was  concerned,  for  the  sons  and
daughters  of Zion  were  full  of prophesying.
In this  prophesying  great  blessings were pro-
nounced upon the faithful, and also great curs-
ings upon the ungodly, or upon those who had
smitten us.  During this time  great  and  mar-
velous  visions  were  seen, one  of  which  I will
mention,  which  Bro.  Joseph  Smith, Jun., had
concerning  the Twelve.  His  anxiety was and
had  been  very  great  for  their  welfare, when
the following vision was  manifested to  him, as
near  as  I  can  recollect.  He saw the Twelve
going  forth, and  they appeared  to be on a far
distant  land;  after  some  time  they unexpect-
edly met together, apparently in great  tribula-
tion, their  clothes  all  ragged and their knees
and  feet  sore.  They formed into a circle, and
all stood with their eyes fixed upon the ground.
The  Savior  appeared  and stood in their midst
and wept over them, and wanted to show Him-
self  to  them, but  they did  not  discover Him.
He saw until they had accomplished their work
and  arrived  at  the  gate  of the celestial  city;
there  Father Adam stood  and opened the gate
to  them, and  as  they  entered,  he embraced
them one by one  and kissed  them.  He then
led  them  to  the throne of God, and then the
Savior embraced  each one of  them and kissed
them, and crowned each  one  of  them  in  the
presence  of God;  he  saw  that  they  had  all 
beautiful heads of hair, and all looked  alike."
The  impression this vision  left  on Brother Jo-
seph's  mind was  of so acute a nature, that he
never  could  refrain  from  weeping  while  re-
hearsing it."
	Those were truly glorious seasons enjoyed by
the Latter-day Saints  in  Kirtland, after pass-
ing through so much sorrow and the many pri-
vations  endured  while troiling to  build  the
house  of  the  Lord.  They  were  thankful to
see that  day, for He was true  to his  promise.
It  seemed  as  though  they stood  in a need of a
double portion, because of their sufferings there
and  also  in  the  State  of  Missouri, where so
many of  their brethren had been cut down by
the cholera.  The  Lord  in  his  tender mercy,
knowing  they had  been  obedient and patient,
blessed  them with  those miraculous manifesta-
tions.
	I have  read  this vision  many  times, and it
always  brings  the  same  heavenly influence,
lifting as it were the  curtain which hides eter-
nity  from  our  view, showing  to  us  the  pure
love  and  charity which characterized  the life
of our blessed Savior, whose example we should
all strive to imitate.  I feel sure that the Lord
will be more  merciful towards those who stum-
bled and  fell by the wayside in the  early start
of the  church, than  He  will  be  to  the  ones
who  have  become  farther  advanced  in  the
knowledge  of  the  truth, and then  apostatized.
I would admonish my young friends to beware
of  apostacy,  more  especially  those  who  have
been  endowed with  the  blessings  of the Holy
Priesthood, which  are  the  most sacred  of all.
To me there is nothing that is so terrible as the
doom of an apostate.  I have no recollection of
the  dedication, or the  solemn assembly which
took place in  the Temple at Kirtland, not be-
ing present, but  have  heard  my  parents  des-
cribe  it.  I  remember  the  love  which  the
Twelve Apostles manifested  towards  one  an-
other, as  they  frequently met  together  at my
father's house, not  council, but some of


them met there to study the Hebrew language.
President Thomas B. Marsh I can remember,
with others, seated around the table studying,
and they would frequently practice talking
Hebrew, which afforded us children considera-
ble amusement, and often they would burst out
laughing at their own awkward mistakes.
They were all young men, and as humble as
little children. I often heard my parents
speak of those days and how their hearts were
bound together as one. They were willing to
go without purse or scrip to the nations to
preach the Gospel, the spirit and power of
their mission resting down upon them. If they
had always cultivated that humility, nothing
could have destroyed their union.
				To be continued.


