BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	In Ogden, January 21, the birthday of Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow Smith was celebrated in a
most appropriate manner. A social party was
given in her honor by the officers of the presid-
ing boards of Relief Societies and Young Ladies'
and Young Mens' Associations of Weber County,
Mrs. Jane S. Richarks and her Counselors hav-
ing charge of the arrangements; Pres. Peery
and Counselors, also the Bishops of Ogden City
assisting very materially in preparations. The
Relief Societies of Ogden prepared a free ban-
quet. Invitations were issued to all the Bishops
and Presidents of R. S., Y. L. and Y. M. M. I.
A. in Weber Stake, to participate in the festivi-
ties of the happy occasion. About two hundred
and fifty persons assembled in Union Hall, and
by invitation of Pres. Peery, Bishop N. C. Fly-
gare made the opening prayer. Dancing com-
menced at six o'clock, the very best music hav-
ing been provided. No numbers were issued,
yet the most perfect order was observed by all.
Pres. Wilford Woodruff and wife were present
bv invitation, also honorable C. W. Penrose and
wife and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City.
At about half past nine the company repaired
to the 2d Ward meeting House, an elegant new
building, where tables were set for the guests
with all the choice varieties of good things
which refresh the body, and two hundred and
fifteen persons sat down to partake the bounties
provided. Of the Quorum of the Apostles there
were present Wilford Woodruff and Franklin D.
Richards, also Mayor Herrick, Counselor Mid-
dleton, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Judge Williams
and F. S. Richards, Esq. The blessing was pro-
nounced by Pres. Woodruff. Mrs. J. S. Richards
was the presiding genius of the feast, flitting
from table to table, anxious that all should be
plentifully helped and faithfully served. It
were worse than useless to attempt to enumer-
ate the luxuries with which the "tables groaned."
The ladies who waited looked charming in their
white aprons, and very gracefully filled the on-
erous positions. Supper over, the company re.
turned to Union Hall, where dan[--]ng was re-
sumed; but soon Elder F. D. Richards called
the attention of the audience, and read the re-
ply of Sister Eliza to the telegram inviting her
to be present, and in a most happy manner made
a few brief remarks, regretting the absence of
the lady. He spoke of the inestimable worth
of the one whose birth they were celebrating,
of her untiring labors in Weber County in help-
ing to organize and instruct; of her great gift
and talent in writing, which had ever been a
blessing and comfort to the Elders upon their

[Column 2]
missions in foreign lands, to the prophets of
God, to the Saints in the midst of persecution,
and in fact to all; of her association with the
Church in early days, and the integrity she had
maintained to the Gospel, that her example was
noble and worthy of emulation by the daughters
of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells then read the poem
"Our Own Eliza Snow," which is published on
the first page. Mrs. R. Monch next read an ad-
dress written by herself, in behalf of the sisters,
and inscribed to Sister Eliza. Pres. Wilford
Woodruff made the closing speech. Referred to
his first acquaintance with the lady whose birth
they were celebrating, her faithfulness and un-
faltering energy in the Gospel, her extraordinary
ability as a writer, and exhorted the young to
imitate her many excellencies of character. He
spoke in praise of the sisters' labor in the Relief
Societies, and exhorted all to live lives of purity
and obedience to the requirements of the Gospel.
At the suggestion of Sister Jane S. Richards,
the assembly joined in singing, "Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah." Coun.
Middleton pronounced the benediction, and the
company dispersed before twelve o'clock.
	Mrs. Richards and the ladies of Ogden who
took part in arranging for the celebration, may
with propriety congratulate themselves on the
complete success of this public demonstration,
and Aunt Eliza may justly be proud of the honor
shown on this memorable occasion, although her
presence would have added greatly to the enjoy-
ment of the evening. It was a flattering testi-
monial of the love and esteem in which she is
held by the people of Weber County.


