CONTINUED.
	Before the "honeymoon" had passed away, a
visit to the country was projected by Mr. Wil-
liam Unipod for his newly married bride; the
father of that gentleman lived in Rutlandshire,
one of the midland counties of England,
Traveling in those days was something serious,
and the means of transit were slow. A visit
to the Black Swan, in Holborn, from which
hostlery sundry conveyances started regularly,

[Column 2]
made known the fact that on "every Monday,
Wednesday and Friday those persons who
wanted to go to Stamford could do so by stage
coach, at which place they would arrive in two
days (if God permits), and return the same;"
also that "passengers could be booked at the
Black Swan, in Holborn, London, or at the
Black Swan in Stamford- 14 lbs weight al-
lowed with each person, 3d per pound extra."
And as Stamford was the nearest town to con-
veniently reach "Whittam on the hill," which
could be done by post chaise, it was decided to
secure inside places by the said stage coach, for
which the very respectable sum of two guineas
was accordingly paid, "as a guarantee that
Mr. and Mrs. Unipod would be passengers on
the day bargained for, or forfeit the money."
This was in 1792.
	Whittam on the hill was reached in safety,
without any other than the ordinary tribula-
tions of traveling in those still perilous times.
	There is something charming in country life
in England, especially to those who have been
for a long time pent up in a crowded city like
London. The home of Mr. Henry Unipod,
farmer and grazier, was certainly a comfortable
one; beneath its ample roof it contained almost
everything one could need to make home happy.
Cosiness and cleanliness vied with each other
to make every part of this abode delightful.
It was impossible to tell which to admire the
most, the perfect order preserved in the estab-
lishment, or the thorough cheerfulness of those
who made such order possible—all were happy.
At daylight the farm hands met in the large
hall adjacent to the parlor, the table spread
with chines of bacon, smoking hot vegetables,
and brown bread; pies of an enormous size,
containing pork and peas, onions and apples,
in a solidified mass of jelly, seasoned in the
most agreeable manner. "Black jacks," or
jugs full of foaming homemade beer, and
pitchers of the whitest kind of earthen ware,
filled with sparkling water fresh from the
spring. No tea or coffee for the farm hands
was allowed, and such things as spirituous
liquors were never seen. 
	Morning meal over, away went the men to
their work, carrying with them a lunch of hard
bread and harder cheese, with a keg of beer,
to refresh themselves at midday. Home again
at four o'clock; the evening meal was partaken
of, consisting of roast meat, fowls and pastry,
that had been left from the parlor dinner-table.
	Where the cooking was done no one could
scarcely tell, except that at sundry times a spit
was turning before the fire of the kitchen
range, a duty that was performed by a "turn-
spit" dog, with his feet admirably turned out-
wards to perform the duties of his calling, who
knew when he was wanted, and presented him-
self to do his turn on the wheel.
	As to Farmer Unipod, he was also up with
the lark, and after taking a "bite" with the men,
he would go round the farm and return to
breakfast at six o'clock, when the family met
and partook of an ample meal, the ladies only
indulging in tea.
	By this time the milking had been done, the
cows turned out in the meadows. The ladies
would see to the "rennet" for curdling the
"meal" of milk for cheese-making. Any clean-
ing that had to be done was then attended to.
The cheese curd was broken up, strained and
put into suitable presses. Then scalding and
rinsing of tubs was attended to, so as to be
ready for to-morrow. Then the red brick floor

[Column 3]
was cleaned till it was bright as a cherry. The
farm work for the women was then done for
the day, and they were seen knitting, sewing
and spinning for the evening.
	As to the "parlor folks," they were attended
to by a maid servant, whose duty it was to
have meals prepared in the kitchen, and to
wait upon the household, she having the keys
of sundry closets and rooms, as butteries,
cheeserooms, and receptacles for hams, pickles,
preserves and groceries, for domestic consump-
tion. The parlor life at Farmer Unipod's was
pleasant in the extreme. They were on visit-
ing terms with the gentry, intimately ac-
quainted with the vicar and his lady, and the 
curate never passed the door without calling
in to retail the news of the day and take "just
one glass of Mr. Unipod's famous ale." Mr.
Unipod himself was a genial gentleman, who 
had made money by stock raising; he had some
of the finest meadows in the county, kept good
horses, of which he was a most excellent judge;
he had good shooting and fishing on his farm,
was liberal to the poor, and a regular attend-
ant at church. Such a man could not be other
than respected in the neighborhood. And
when it was known that "Master William," the
eldest son of the worthy farmer, had brought
down his young wife from London, everybody
was anxious to make her acquaintance, and to
extend to her their hospitalities. Long, long
did the memory of those days of happiness re-
main with Mary Lindsay, now the wife of
William Unipod, who, although much her se-
nior in years, treated her with reverential re-
spect, and did his best endeavor to smooth the
path she had to tread in after life.
	Several weeks were spent at Whittam on the 
hill, a place lovely for situation; all the ravines
and copses became quite familiar to the "Lon-
don Lady," as Mrs. William Unipod was fa-
miliarly called. It was a treat also to visit the
village church; for although the walls had but
few monuments and tablets to relieve the same-
ness of the whitewash, the chancel was em-
bellished with many little niches, filled with
sculpturing by some of the best artists. There
was also paneling in oak, worm eaten, by rea-
son of a venerable antiquity, but this had
been renovated, under the direction of the
young curate; a "delightful man," who was al-
most idolized by the ladies. Then there was a
baptismal font of most exquisite workmanship,
on which were the arms of the Unipods, in re-
membrance of its having been presented by
some former member of that family. All
these things were very precious to Mary Lind-
say, bringing back to memory associations of
the most agreeable kind, and although the in-
tonations and chantings common to the larger
churches were wanting, the simplicity and
solemnity of the services were not the less sub-
lime and consolatory.
	Before Mrs. William Unipod had hardly
had time to recognize all the various persons
who assembled for public worship in the nu-
merous pews, the time of returning to London
arrived. The great pew for the church ward-
ens everybody knew; there it was with its tall
hassocks made of flaming red leather, soft to
kneel on, and sufficiently high for the dutiful
officials to be seen kneeling before all the con-
gregation. Then the wands overlaid with gold
were placed in the exact position where the
church wardens and other great parochial au-
thorities would kneel. Then there was the
"big pew," as the people called it, the sides of


which were  high, and  the  entrance  to  which
was  in  an  obscure corner, where the "Squire"
from  the "big  house" could enter  unobserved,
and  retire when he  pleased, without disturbing
the congregation.  These, and the chancel win-
dow  of  stained  glass, in  which  the  figures  of
the  Apostles  were  seen,  grouped  around,  the
form which is everywhere recognized so readily,
that of our Savior--these, all these  and more,
had only  just  become  familiar,  when  Mr. and
Mrs. Unipod had to return again to London.
 Hallowed for  centuries have been the  eccle-
siastical  edifices  in which  our  forefathers wor-
shipped;  the  devotional feeling  engendered by
their awe-inspiring surroundings and ceremonial
observances  are  not without  their meaning  to
the  thoughtful.   If humanity  saw  the  truth
"as  through a glass  darkly," there was  a  dim
perception  of  the  existence  of Deity; a lying
logic had not  yet learned to deny the being  of
a  God  because  of the excellency and majesty
of the methods of creation!
To be Continued.


