Three Women Fortunate is the child who is reared under the guidance of a good mother; doubly fortunate is one who also comes under the influence of a noble grandmother; but even more blessed is one who has the wise guidance of a second loving, wonderful grandmother. The realization that my life has been thus blessed has filled me with a deep sense of responsibility for a debt that can never be fully paid. I acknowledge this debt in gratitude and humility and with a feeling of joy and pride in the heritage which is responsible for it. In retrospect, the measure of the influence of my mother and my two grandmothers upon my life has been infinite. Each one has exerted particular forces in certain individual ways which have worked to my benefit. A brief, but candid, glimpse into the lives of each of the three may reveal something of the meaning and depth of the debt which each of us, as women, owes to those who have nurtured us and en- 324 Celestia J. Taylor Membe General Board dowed us with the true virtues 0 womanhood. In some ways, in the memorie of my very early childhood, m Grandmother Nash—"Grandma" always to me—stands out eve more vividly than does my mother. I can explain this perhaps best by saying that becau Mother was always there to be with and to come home to, I mus have just taken her for granted; though I know now that without her through all my life, I would have been lost. In order to place my Grandmother Nash in a proper perspective, it is necessary that I give some of the essential facts of her life as they were written down by her eldest daughter: In Nashville, Tennessee, in the year 1842, Rhoda Young McNicol was born to Alexander and Mary Ann Vance McNicol, the youngest child of four. She was reared in an environment almost inconceivable to her posterity —amid an ease of living and luxurious surroundings.... There was no memory of the father who died during the infancy of thi child, and the mother and her family of four small girls were taken to the home of the dear Grandfather, Lewis Vance, a wealthy plantation owner, where they remained a number of years. Then the gospel found them, and the entire family was converted to Mormonism. Lewis Vance sold his beautiful plantation. They said goodbye to the old home and started westward to join the saints. The journey was suspended at Council Bluffs, and the winter brought the terrible scourge of cholera among the travelers, taking a toll of two from this party. Lewis Vance and a daughter succumbed to the disease, and were left by the wayside. In 1852, the survivors resumed the long trek westward. Rhoda, the youngest, was too small to walk the entire distance and was permitted to take turns riding on the back of the family cow at the rear of the company, which was commanded by Captain John Tidwell, who led his band of faithful followers into the beautiful valley of the Great Salt Lake, in 1852. Later, the family moved to Alpine, Utah County, then known as Mountainville, where they made a permanent residence. On September 23, 1863, Rhoda was married to Ephraim Nash and a year later they received their endowments and were sealed in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. I can hardly think of Grandma Nash without thinking of her home, which she loved so dearly. It was a brick structure of typical Victorian style, three stories high, and comprising sixteen rooms all furnished richly and completely with every comfort and luxury which was available at that time. How I loved that house of Grandma's. I knew every corner of it more intimately than I knew our own Alpine home. Grandma was an immaculate housekeeper; there was order not only in every room in her house but also on every shelf and in every drawer. It seems to me THREE WOMEN now, as I look back in nostalgic remembrance, that her home was a haven of perfection and peace. This, I know, is partly a romantic projection growing out of my childhood impressions, but, nevertheless, a very real one to me. Something I can never forget was her sitting room just off her bedroom, where she did her handwork. A glimpse into the drawers of her cabinets revealed rows and rows of variegated assortments of thread, embroidery floss, and yarn, all arranged in graduated color schemes from the palest tints to the deepest hues. To me, as a child, they were a fascinating sight. And her needlework was something to see. Her beautiful handmade quilts, rugs, and afghans; her exquisite hand embroidery; her peerless knitting and crocheting; her intricate patterns of featherstitching and piecework; her handloomed carpets and fabrics—all these and more testified of her talent as an artist in these skills. Although Grandma was far more than domestic in her tastes and inclinations, in her kitchen she was perfection itself. I can still see her drawing from the oven a batch of fragrant bread or a pan of yeast biscuits, high and incredibly light; or see her rolling out the dough for her pies which, except for those my mother baked from the same recipe and method, have never been equaled in my experience. Her wonderful breads, pies, and cakes often found their way into the homes of her neighbors and friends in need. Hardly a day went by that did not see her taking something to someone. IT never saw her at work in her kitchen when she was not singing; in fact, I can hardly think of her without hearing her singing. Sometimes a note of sadness emanated from her songs, but whatever her mood, she expressed it in some kind of singing. Sometimes she merely hummed, but always I remember her with music in her heart. She knew from memory and dearly loved all the favorite Church hymns, and it was from hearing her sing them that-I learned most of them myself. Her voice had a low, vibrant quality that had a penetrating effect upon my senses. Whenever I hear the words of King Lear in Shakespeare's great tragedy, ""Her voice was ever soft, /Gentle, and low—-; an excellent thing in woman," I always think of my Grandmother Nash. I think it must have been her gift of song which lent a buoyancy to her spirit to lift it up in spite of sorrows which could easily have destroyed a less indomitable character. Not from her did I hear the story of the loss of five beautiful children—four daughters and one son—within the space of six months from diphtheria. And not from her did I know that the sorrow was hers of having a young, talented, handsome son turn to the enticements of drink and literally destroy himself. These and many other trials seemed to have made her the stronger in the bearing of them. There was never any wavering in her faith. She was possessed of a strong, personal testimony which kept her close to the Church and true to its principles as long as she lived. My association with my Grandmother Johnson was not so in- 326 timate, nor did it extend over so long a period as with my Grandmother Nash, but what time I did spend with her was no less rewarding in many ways. I think that probably no two women were less alike than they were, and yet, each in her own way, was endowed with the highest qualities of intellect and character. I never thought to compare them. I loved them both, and they loved each other. Both lived at varying times in our home, and several times they were there together, and at such times their sincere affection and respect for each other were evident. According to family records: Susan Adeline Holman was the fifth child of James Sawyer and Naomi Roxannia LeBaron Holman. She was born on the 7th of October, 1841, at Nauvoo, Illinois. Her parents were early-day members of the Church. They were living in Nauvoo when the Prophet was martyred, and to escape further trouble moved to Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, where the father stayed long enough to... Get his family settled, and then left his wife and small children there in the summer of 1847 as he started out with a herd of sheep, the first to cross the plains and reach Salt Lake. He walked the entire way, assisted only by a small boy who rode a horse. In the summer of 1848... Susan's mother prepared to start with the Saints to cross the plains, with a thirteen-year-old son to drive their three yoke of cattle. Susan was seven years old that summer. Her father came to meet them and they arrived in Salt Lake in October, safe and well, despite the many hardships. Then came the real test for Susan as she and her young brother herded their father's sheep over the hills in their bare feet, glad to have a supper of sego roots when they got home. She never forgot seeing her father go off to work to be gone all day with only a cup of milk to do him until he returned at night; and seeing her mother treading up and down on her spinning wheel all day and often into the night with tears streaming down her face. About the year 1850, Susan's father.. Joined his interests to those of Benjamin Franklyn Johnson... A [former] close friend and intimate associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith. This was the beginning of a close association between the Holman and Johnson families.... Susan was married to Benjamin Johnson. Their son was my father. I well remember Grandmother Johnson—her sweetness, her gentleness; I remember her insatiable curiosity about life and her zest for it. I remember her quaint but penetrating sense of humor, which made every association with her a time of fun. I never knew her in her own home, but I do know that she always brought much pleasure to ours. She was an avid genealogist, and much of her time when she was in Utah was spent doing work in the Salt Lake Temple. A feeling of warmth and tenderness wells up in me whenever I think of my dear, sweet Grandma Johnson. How can I begin to describe my mother, Deseret (Dessie) Nash Johnson— the dearest to me of these three women who have played so great a part in my life? Though she has been gone from us for over seven years, the memory of her is so strongly imprinted upon my heart and mind that I feel her presence in a very real sense. The passing years, somehow, cannot diminish the vibrance of her spirit. Maybe because of this very fact, it is difficult for me to put her into words —to interpret for others the real person that she was. That realness began and ended in the indomitable but simple THREE WOMEN faith which pervaded every part of her life. She loved her Heavenly Father and she communed with him. Whenever she wanted something, she prayed for it, and accepted the answer—her implicit faith was as uncomplicated as that. She loved the Presidents of the Church, in turn, as she knew them, and she evidenced her devotion by her continuous activity in the various organizations of the Church from her early childhood to the end of her life. She served her community almost as well as she did her Church, but never to the detriment of her family. My mother was a wonderful cook. I never tasted anything in my life that she fixed for us that I didn't like. Nothing in my ex- | perience has diminished my belief that she was the best cook in the world. My mother was also an excellent seamstress. She made nearly everything that my sisters and I wore, and we always felt that we were as well-dressed as any of our friends. Her taste, her originality, her ability to achieve the special effect we wanted, made us dissatisfied with anything else. Her fine traits of character— including her complete honesty, her courage in meeting any problem or adverse situation, her unconcern for wordly pursuits or social prestige, except where she could be of service to her friends and her community, her unpretentiousness, her dislike for sham, pretense or any pettiness—where these might be abstract generalities in some, in her they were concrete and genuine qualities. She had a great love for the out-of-doors, and she made a a7 garden spot wherever she made her home. Even in her late seventies, she spent many hours planting and transplanting her choice shrubs and flowers. Her houseplants she cherished all her life, and some of them she dated back to her own mother's collection, kept alive by succeeding cuttings and transplantings. My mother was a natural storyteller, and she loved to sit with us, her children, and tell stories—some which she made up for us out of a vivid imagination and many which were fragments out of her own life. "Once upon a time..." I first heard these words intoned by her so long ago that they are beyond the point of recollection, but the magic of these four little words has cast a spell over my life and I still can project myself into that wonderful world of enchantment with nostalgic delight and yearning. My mother was all these things and more to me; and yet I know