Washday Blues Frances C. Yost =_ 7 4 made it so they had to budget very carefully the year around. Even though they lived in a little modest house, the rent came around like a merry-go-round. And even though Arlene made all her bread and every pie and cake they consumed; even though they used dry milk and economy spreads and_ stretched every grocery dollar to the limit, there just never was money for entertainment of any kind. That was why she and Barney started going to the concerts in the park. That was why they took the'boys to the wading pool and watched them frisk a bit. That was why they started taking nature hikes, and other walking sight-seeing "expeditions. Who was it had said the best things in life were free? That was true to some extent. Yes, she and Barney had learned to laugh about what they called "the family squeeze." Arlene had remodeled hand-down clothes from both sides of the family. Barney had once said it was too bad Arlene couldn't make shoes, she was so handy at making every other item of clothing. Well, she had sewed up shoes more than once. And she had made dresses and shirts, and well everything, really. She had retailored Barney's suit—when the legs were baggy, and the coat was double breasted. It was a mighty good job, too. Even Mrs. Coombs, who altered at the Bon Ton, said she couldn't have done better herself. Arlene had the whole batch hanging on the line, and it hadn't taken a minute, because her mind had been so active and so blissfully happy. Now Arlene had all her wash out, and was cleaning up the washer. She felt something hard and round and she brought it up out of the water. It was a quarter. Arlene smiled and said: '"Barney's left change in his pocket again. I've told him 'losers weepers, finders keepers.' "' Then Arlene spied a half dollar. Seventy-five cents! Wow! Now I can buy that tube of lipstick I've wanted. It's so much fun on washday! When she was first married to Bamey, washday had seemed such a chore. The very thought of washday gave her the ''washday blues." And then one day something had happened. She would always remember that certain washday Barney had come home from the sand crusher job, his clothes covered with grease. "I'm glad you haven't emptied your wash water, Arlene. Will you run these coveralls through?" Barney was jerking them off. Arlene, watching, could feel her WASHDAY BLUES nose wrinkling slightly. 'Throw them in yourself, Bamey, I hate to touch dirty duds." Later, when Arlene drained the tubs, there had been two dimes in the bottom. "Losers weepers, finders keepers," she teased. -'"Tt was worth much more than twenty cents to have the coveralls washed. Go buy yourself a milk shake, honey." "T need some crochet thread, Barney. Finding money is so exciting!" She had laughed as if the sky had suddenly started sprinkling dimes as raindrops. ARLENE was brought back to the present. This was today. A day wrapped up in the summer of nineteen sixty-five. Arlene just couldn't remember a _ washday since then that she hadn't found a nickel or a dime or a handful of pennies in the washer when she cleaned it out. She knew it was a little game Barney was playing with her—to take away the blues. Well, it did add interest to what might be a dull day. But today's haul made Arlene think. Seventy-five cents left carelessly in work clothes. Perhaps Barney was careless with money. Perhaps she was the only one who was skimping and making over and making do. When Barney had started working on this particular job he said the fellows always bought dinner at the job cafeteria. He said he could get a nice meal for for seventy-five cents. Arlene liked the idea, too. It cost to put up a nice lunch, and this way she wouldn't need to bother. And it would be more fun for Barney eating with the fellows, and en- joying their chit-chat. Yes, it was a good feeling knowing Barney was eating lunches with the fellows in the cafeteria. Then she remembered this morning. Barney had taken the latest copy of The Improvement Era with him. Barney didn't have time to read. They just had a half hour for lunch. Arlene glanced at the clock. It was six P. M. Just any time after six she and the boys could start looking for their father to come home. This was a happy time of the day. The boys welcomed him home daily with the same joy they welcomed Santa Claus. And there he was climbing out of Bill 'Rice's car, and coming up the walk. "Daddy! Daddy!" The boys were out of the door and scampering to meet him. Arlene watched them with her heart full of joy. Dirty clothes didn't ever stand in the way of a child's love and the need to express it. Barney was coming through the kitchen door. He ducked low with a boy on each shoulder. He winked at Arlene. ''What's for supper? I'm starved." "Hamburger delight." "My favorite."' Now he had pitched off the boys and was taking off his coveralls and work shoes in the utility room. "T'll hurry and bathe and be with you in a second." This was routine, but the next sentence was edged with hunger. "I could go for one of your pies the round uncut kind." Arlene raised her voice to be heard above the bath water flow. "Will you settle for graham cracker pudding?" 348 "My favorite." Supper was funtime at the McHughs. The boys always had lots to tell Daddy. Barney always had happenings at the plant, a joke or two the fellows had related. And sometimes something clever one of the fellows told about their children. Barney liked his work, and the men he worked with. Tonight, Barney seemed to be enjoying his food especially well. He emptied his plate and took seconds all around. He looked over at Arlene and smiled affectionately. "I sure do like my wife's cooking." AFTER supper the boys played in their room, and Barney dried the dishes while Arlene washed them. "What was the special at the cafeteria, Barney?" "Huh? Oh, same old thing." "Did you read the article written by President McKay in the Era?" "Yes, how did you know?" -"One can do a lot of reading in a half hour. That article was so good it would sort of take a man's mind off the fact that he was hungry... Maybe." "What do you mean, honey girl?" "My dear, darling, lovable, generous husband doesn't have lunch money, because he leaves the cost of his dinner in his coveralls so that his wife will be surprised, and will find money to buy lipstick, or some other extravagance that the small budget doesn't allow. Oh, Barney darling! This isn't the first time you have done this. I've been a dummy and didn't figure it out until today. I'm so ashamed."' Bamey put his arms around Arlene. ""Come now. Tears are for funerals and weddings." "Don't ever.. Don't ever leave money where I'll find it in the washer." "And run the risk of my pretty wife getting the washday blues? Not on your life." "But not at the cost of going hungry. Not ever again, Barney. Promise me."' "Don't make me promise, because I've had a lot of fun seeing you wash out my dirty silver. Too much of it has been filthy copper. But I have a medium of exchange that will make your eyes sparkle. How about this?" Barney pulled out an envelope from his shirt pocket. He withWASHDAY BLUES drew a check and handed it to Arlene. "Twenty dollars! For what!" "The boss made me a sort of foreman. With the job, goes a twenty dollar raise a week. Maybe we can take in a show occasionally. Why I might even hire a sitter and take my girl friend dancing." Barney was smiling one of his nicest smiles now... All crinkly and laughing and fun. "We can stay on the college fund budget and do a few things extra, in a small way, of course." "And eat on washday."' Barmey's arms encircled her. Arlene felt warm and protected and comfortable as he held her close. Washday can have so many hues, she thought.