Freezer Time Means Free Time Joyce B. Bailey Company coming? You would love to sit down and visit with Cousin Cora and Uncle Bill, but someone has to feed the crowd, and. Time out for the new baby? Hubby is all thumbs in the kitchen, and piles of dishes are making him frown. Or you just want to take the afternoon off from kitchen patrol and rest a moment, but. If you have a home freezer, a few careful minutes of planning can save you hours over the week. There is no better way to insure that fix-ahead foods are health-giving and retain the vitamins and minerals so important for your family than to freeze them. Are you in a baking mood? Bake an extra batch of your family's favorite cookies and freeze them in individual bags for lunches. Do you dread daily shopping? Shop less often and let your freezer help you save both time and money as you select the best foods when seasonally abundant. THREE-WAY OATMEAL COOKIES (Basic Dough) 114 c. Soft shortening 2 tsp. Flavoring 2 c. Raw or brown sugar 2 c. Self-rising flour or; 1 c. Granulated sugar 2 c. Sifted flour, 2 tsp. Salt, 1 tsp soda 2 eggs 6 c. Rolled oats or rolled wheat 14 c. Water Mix in order listed and divide dough into three parts. To one part add 2 c. Chocolate chips; to the second part add 2 c. Butterscotch bits; and to the third add 1 c. Raisins and 1 c. Chopped nuts. Spoon onto baking sheets. Bake at 350° for 12 minutes. Cool. Place in polyethylene freezer bags and freeze. Cookies will thaw in just a few minutes, as fresh as when you baked them. MEAT AND MUSHROOM LOAF 114 Ibs. Ground beef _ Y% package onion soup mix 14, lb. Ground sausage 1 can condensed mushroom soup 1 c. Rolled oats canned sliced mushrooms 14, c. Tomato catsup Mix ingredients, except mushrooms and catsup, and press into loaf pan or casserole dish lined with foil. Garnish with the mushrooms and top with catsup. Cover with foil and freeze. Before baking, allow to thaw 114 hrs. Place in 350° oven for 114 hrs. Serve with Parmesan baked potatoes. PARMESAN BAKED POTATOES Select potatoes the desired size, using a mealy variety. Wash, bake 1 hour at 350°. Slice potatoes lengthwise, sccop out center, saving shells. Mash, then whip until light and fluffy with milk, Sutter, salt, and pepper. Heap into shells and allow to cool. Sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, wrap individually in foil and freeze. To serve, defrost for 114 hrs. At room temperature; then bake for 40 minutes at 350°. SPINACH DELIGHT Cook 2 packages of frozen spinach according to directions on label. Drain. Add 1 can condensed mushroom soup. Heat and serve. STRAWBERRY SALAD Crush 2 c. Fresh or frozen strawberries, combine with 14 c. Heavy cream, 12 oz. Cream cheese or 114 c. Cottage cheese. Freeze in individual paper cups, uncovered. When frozen, wrap in foil. To serve, thaw at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Serve immediately. ICE-CREAM CLOWNS Arrange 12 crisp cookies on a tray. Place a scoop of ice cream on each cookie. Use chocolate chips for eyes and strips of maraschino cherry for mouth and nose. Place an ice cream cone on each scoop for a hat. A real party pleaser!