Much of Worth - The Mabel L. Anderson m'"That surely must be a good Magazine,' Mark said, as he took his grandmother's picture. ""You are always reading it." "Tt is, the best in the world,' Grandma Violet Nielsen answered as she continued to peruse The . That she was always reading it, was not quite accurate. When one saw the mountains of sewing she did, of cross-stitched aprons, pillows, quilt tops, crocheting, and items for the bazaars and trousseaux for granddaughters; when one tasted her good home cooking, and visited her neat little home, one knew that her hands were indeed busy. But when leisure moments came to her, when she must stop to rest, the litthe Magazine she loved was right at hand, by her rocker or easy chair, or bedside table. As soon as the postman delivered it, matters of less urgency were dropped ''just to glance through it." Sister Nielsen, as thousands of Relief Society women throughout the world, has found much of worth in the Magazine. Through it she can keep up with the lessons, whether she is able always to be at the meetings or not. Through it she becomes vicariously acquainted with people in other lands, in other walks of life, and yet keeps in touch with her own people at home. In its pages she comes in contact with the thoughts, with the minds of great men and women of the Church, of the world. From it her testimony of the gospel gains strength. THE HOME—INSIDE AND OUT Within it she often finds expressions of her own thoughts for which she has never quite found the words. For relaxation, she enjoys the interesting, homey stories, and likes to try one of the recipes now and then, or a new pattern for handwork is always a delight and a challenge to her. Someone said that books are like people—that they have a soul. Then our little Magazine is surely a friendly soul and shares with its readers pleasures, dreams, hopes, revelation, offers words of comfort in sorrow, is a wise counselor for problems. It is a friend one likes to have in one's home, at one's fireside, by one's easy chair, as it is with Sister Nielsen. Although we do meet many of the great of the world there, most of them are the folksy folks like you and me and Grandma Nielsen who talk to us in words we know and can understand. Yes, women look forward to the Magazine with pleasure, with anticipation. It speaks to us of the modern world in which we live, of a future world that is coming, but to many of us who are approaching the twilight years we often find much in it of memory, of recognition, and it gives to the younger women an occasional backward look to other, older ways, and makes for understanding. An old adage says a man (or woman) is known by the company he keeps. What gentle, kindly company Grandma Nielsen keeps. After a session in her easy chair with her little Magazine, her mind and body are refreshed.