[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 72 | General Feature | Social Relations— "Not Where You Serve, But How" Alberta | H. Christensen]
[Social Relations— "Not Where You Serve, But How" Alberta H. Christensen]

For while the tired waves, vainly breaking, Seem here no painful inch to gain, Far back, throughcreeks and inlets making, Comes silent, flooding in, the main. And not by eastern windows only, When day light comes, comes in the light, In front, the sun climbs slow, how slowly, But westward, look, the land is bright. What makes this lyric memorable is its nice balance of the ideal and the real. The battle metaphor which is developed in the first two stanzas does not degenerate into superficial heroics. We don't meet a victor in this poem so much as a determined participant who refuses to give up. For every negative assertion he has a_ positive counter. If his hopes have been blasted, his fears may be no more reliable. If the waves seem to be getting no place, the tide is flooding the shore. There is no attempt in this poem to suggest that the struggle makes difficulties easier to bear. At the conclusion, the sun is still not coming up very rapidly. But trying to find hope is in itself hope-producing. Refusal to accept defeat keeps us sensitive to every possibility of victory. In such sensitivity we are far more prepared to succeed than we would be if we let ourselves become so dulled by opposition that we couldn't recognize a positive opportunity when _ it appeared. Discussion Question In "Say Not the Struggle Nought Availeth" a clear view of the difficulties which the author faces does not keep Lesson Department him from looking on the positive possibilities of his situation. Is there ever a danger that too detailed an anticipated view of our circumstances may compromise our efforts to improve? '"" THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS" Oliver Wendell Holmes' poem "The Chambered Nautilus" treats discouragement only implicitly. The focus of this beloved poem is overwhelmingly positive: THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS by Oliver Wendell Holmes This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main,— The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the Siren sings. And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair. Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pearl! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed,— Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed! Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, He left the past year's dwelling for the new. Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more. Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew from wreathed horn! Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings:— 

73 January 1969

 Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea! Where Clough is more realistic, Holmes is optimistic. After developing his image for three stanzas, he gives the "heavenly message" of growth and vision which the shell of the chambered or pearly nautilus had suggested to him. The final stanza is almost pure exhortation, for Holmes' optimism is meant to be acted upon. "More stately mansions" must be built; they are not achieved without endless effort. As we live up to the opportunities we currently enjoy, we become capable of still loftier and more rewarding experiences. We cannot be satisfied with present achievement lest we make a prison out of our limited horizon. Discussion Question "The Chambered Nautilus" has occasionally been cited as a poetic expression of the Latter-day Saint concept of eternal progression. How appropriate do you feel this comparison to be? "LEARNING THE RIVER" Mark Twain's "Learning the River" lets us participate so fully in the discouragement and frustration he experienced in becoming a river pilot that we relive our own youthful disillusionments.

If occasional difficult tasks proved easier in the doing than in the anticipating, others were shockingly harder 74 ~ BS =P MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Plan Your Vacation With Us ANNUAL TOURS: Hill Cumorah Pageant Canadian Rockies and Northwest Black Hills Passion Play Hawaii Rose Parade and others Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Clothes Patterns ® Colonial Family e Pilgrim Family e@ Pioneer Family @ Lincoln Family @ Daniel Boone Family NEW EASY CONSTRUCTION METHOD Christmas, Bazaar & Collectors Items Send $1.00 per family ppd. To: ANITA'S DOLL PATTERNS P. O.

ns—and what we learn in sharing his reminiscence—are the inviolable rules of good craftsmanship. The facts of his experience speak to him as clearly as if they had been shouted aloud. In retrospect, they were part of the "best talk" he ever encountered. Many of us can recall similar maturing experiences. Holmes is particularly successful in evoking how difficult it is for young people 

75 January 1969

 to understand that effort—no matter how persistent or sincere —must result in accomplishment if it is to have its full meaning. Persistence without development gives routine activity more than its due. The boy in "Talk" does learn to appreciate the necessity for careful, continuing work, but he learns a good deal more than this in his watching and listening. He finally realizes that "however you build it, / The ship must sail; you can't explain to the ocean." Such an arresting comment gives labor its fulfillment. In an age given to explanation, which is often no more than justification for failure, we recognize how often we have tried to "explain to the ocean" while we were sinking. As we develop the positive attitudes in which all skills must be based, we begin to understand that doggedness is a minor virtue until it is completed by real achievement. Habit may simply reinforce error unless it supports a worthy goal. Discussion Question Does John Holmes convince you that the silences of his youthful hours in the model builder's shop were "some of the best talk" he ever experienced? How appropriate is the word "talk" here? "THE MARCH OF ZION'S CAMP" BY S. DILWORTH YOUNG To those who have read the history of the march which is commemorated in "The March of Zion's Camp," this poem speaks with special poignance. Few commandments in early Church history seemed more capable of 76 testing faith and commitment than the order to march to the relief of their brothers and sisters in Missouri. Although five hundred men were thus called for, only about one hundred left Kirtland in May 1834. Along the way an additional hundred joined the group. Despite warning from the Prophet agains disunity, some members of the company expressed dissatisfaction with the purpose and results of the expedition, and an epidemic of cholera left more than a score dead. The incident which is the dramatic center of Elder Young's account—the miraculous deliverance at Fishing River—helped many who were in the group to understand that the Lord requires our best efforts but is not dependent upon them. The form of this poem, with its apparently casual lines, is an interesting example of the loose but real organization which characterized Zion's Camp. Line lengths may vary but none really gets out of hand. Rhythm shifts with idea as the actual cadence of informally marching men adapts itself to terrain and circumstance. Although there is a clear narrative tone to this work, there is such tension in most of the lines that they are, at least, as much exhortation as they are part of a story. "The March of Zion's Camp" seems an appropriate conclusion for our section on persistence, for it aids us in seeing that the reward of sustained effort may not be the expected one. Those who left Ohio in this determined band thought that they were going to "redeem" Zion. When the Camp was disbanded, the saints in Missouri were still undergoing trial, and there were those who Lesson Department moving the entire Latter-day Saint people west in the even more difficult days to come. Felt that the whole effort was unsuccessful. In retrospect, however, those who were to assume major positions in the Church had their faith tested under fire. In addition, the Lord was preparing men through this experience for the responsibility of Discussion Question If "The March of Zion's Camp" was not set on the page in poetic form it would still be poetry, although it might look like prose. What would make it unmistakably poetic? MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS USED ON THE CULTURAL REFINEMENT RECORDING FOR OCTOBER The October lesson in the cultural refinement course presented music using ancient instruments. It is felt that a listing of these instruments and identification of the different groups might be of interest. Identifications are by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of the College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. Ancient Instruments 1. Vielle—an early version of the violin, held on the arm, rather than on the shoulder. Gamba—forerunner of the cello Tambour—two-headed drum Recorder—flute-like instrument, comes in various sizes Krumhorn—reed instrument, with the mouthpiece enclosed in a capsule. It has a very deep nasal tone. 6. Baroque oboe—old-fashioned oboe Pe Instruments Used Group I—vielle, gamba, and tambour Group II—baroque oboe and recorder Group III—same as group I Group IV—two recorders, a vielle, and a gamba Group V—three recorders and a krumhorn THE