[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 42 | General Feature | Calling All Student Wives Patricia | R. Watkins]
ants:... That thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, 22 eDiroRIAL Fastin in other words, (D&C 59:13-14.) rejoicing and_ prayer. While the observance of. Fast Day is outlined in some detail, the principle of fasting would seem to be an observance in the gospel which is left to the individual to live. How often should one pray on a Fast Day is left to the individual to decide. How often should one fast at other times than Fast Day is also a matter of individual decision. In times of grave illness and heavy trouble, however, instinctively one seeks the Lord in fasting and prayer, for the scriptures teach the power to be found Volume 56 January 1969 Number 1 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer I: and Prayer therein. The Lord has said that he will not command in all things. President Joseph F. Smith said 'God delights in the willing heart.' (J. D. 25:59.) When one fasts it should be accompanied by joy. The Savior said:... When ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance... That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret. (Matt. 6:16, 18.) President Joseph F. Smith added the comment, ''In other words, appear to the world to be happy.'' (J. D. 25:58.) Emphasizing the personal disAnna B. Hart Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Zola J. McGhie Leone G.

[Calling All Student Wives Patricia R. Watkins]

In addition, the March of Dimes conducts prenatal care education programs to help reduce defects and infant mortality. The March of Dimes depends on an informed public to finance its programs of basic and clinical research, its nationwide network of more than 100 Birth Defects Centers and its programs of professional and public education. When you give to the March of Dimes, you fight birth defects. You help support more than 100 birth defects treatment centers. You help support brilliant medical scientific investigators. You help support a massive health education program aimed at getting the best possible medical care for every mother-to-be. That's the way it should be. Every child is entitled to a healthy start in life. Most children born with birth defects can be helped, but too many people still believe these afflictions are hopeless. Help us tell them of the progress medical science has made. FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS. GIVE TO THE MARCH OF DIMES SNOWBOUND? Now Winter thinks to bind me. But I, within these walls touched by fireglow, Escape his grasp, through magic of beloved books. So, winterbound, completely free am I this winter hour. —Dorothy R. Cox 25 fa @ Mary placed the last decoration on the Christmas tree before moving to the window to watch the soft white snow drift silently to the ground. It's going to be a wonderful Christmas this year, She thought—the children will have such a delightful time in the snow. If this weather continues, I'll have to dig Roy's old bobsled out of the garage. She sat down. She was still feeling a little weak from her illness and three-weeks stay at the nursing home. She had so much to be thankful for; she was well enough to have her son and his family home for Christmas, and the stay at the nursing home hadn't been so bad really— for one thing she had met some new friends. She leaned back on the davenport thoughtfully. She had meant to visit back at the Home before 26 "I can't imagine... Why you would ask me." "It You Give Enough" Helen H. Trutton this. Most of the patients she had met were lonely, some were neglected by their families, and some had no one at all to care. Maybe she could manage a short visit tomorrow and take them Some of the cookies she had just baked. She chuckled to herself. Not even three hungry grandchildren could eat the dozens and dozens she had made. Mary sat up Straight. She would prepare a lovely basket of her choicest cookies and give them to Mrs. Gibson. Maybe she wouldn't accept them. Mary had tried to make friends with her, but she certainly hadn't Succeeded during the three weeks. Mrs. Gibson was the loneliest person in the entire nursing home, that was certain. Mary didn't see one visitor enter her room. Once she asked the nurse about her. She had answered, t Seriously, ave daily medj relatives?" €, or she thers," Y clasped h ead, allo to fall d er hands be.