[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 18 | Special Feature | Maurine M. Haycock Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Edith | S. Elliott]
Maurine M. Haycock Appointed to The General Board of Relief Society Edith S. Elliott, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Maurine McClellan Haycock was called to serve as a member of the General Board of Relief Society on October 23, 1968. She is well qualified for this position. The most important aim in her life is to serve the Lord. Her parents were George A. And Mary Wright McClellan. In 1938 she was married to David Arthur Haycock in the Salt Lake Temple. Early in their married life she held the unique position of being the wife of the youngest bishop in the Church at that time. Bishop Haycock was twenty-six years old when called to serve in Riverview Ward, Pioneer Stake. In 1952, the Haycock family moved to Washington, D. C. When Brother Haycock became administrative assistant to Elder Ezra Taft Benson, Secretary of Agriculture in President Eisenhower's cabinet. Sister Maurine served as a Relief Society visiting teacher. Two years later, Brother Haycock was appointed President of the Hawaiian Mission, and Sister Haycock gave devoted service to her new duties. When released, the family moved to Bountiful, Utah, and Brother Haycock is now se¢retary to the Council of the Twelve. Sister Haycock has had valuable experience in several wards as a class leader or as a member of the presidency in all of the Church auxiliaries. Sister Haycock's leadership was soon recognized and she was called to the Presidency of the South Davis Relief Society Stake Board. She has served for eight years aS second counselor and then first counselor in charge of homemaking. For the past four years she has correlated the sewing assignments for the thirteen stakes in the Salt Lake Regional Bishops Storehouse. Brother and Sister Haycock are the parents of four lovely daughters: Marilyn (Mrs. Dee E. Morrison), Salinas, California; Judith Ann (Mrs. Carl W. Buchanan), Bountiful, Utah; Lynnette, a senior at Brigham Young University; and Cheryl. Senior at Viewmont High School, Bountiful.