[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 8 | Special Feature | Our Children— "The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" Joseph | Fielding Smith]
[Our Children— "The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" Joseph Fielding Smith]

ber of Relief Society as the year 1969 rises on the horizon. It is a time to look back, to weigh the events of the past year, and to look forward, resolving more vigorously to pursue eternal truth as it applies to one's individual life. How have weaknesses, sadness, goodness, and joys positioned one during the past year? The measure will be the degree of obedience to the first and second great commandments. Is the year richer in the essence of love which envelops one's thoughts and actions? A perfect love of Christ is the far goal. In its light all incidents of life are transmuted into eternal verities and viewed from the pinnacle of acceptance, "... Not my will, but thine, be done." (Luke 22:42.) In seeking the love of Christ it is heartening to recall what is written on the rich young ruler who could not forsake his worldly riches to take up the cross and follow Christ. In spite of this weakness, it reads "Then Jesus beholding him loved him." (Mark 10:21.) So Jesus is ready to love everyone in spite of personal weaknesses and failings. Never need one feel forsaken or alone. Instead, a wellspring of thankfulness and nearness will warm and flood the soul. May 1969 become a memorable year of personal eternal progress amid the conflicts of the world. Love will bring peace to the soul and allow one to live in the world and yet not be of it, all the time pursuing the goal of eternal life. May this be the precious experience of every Relief Society member throughout the New Year. Affectionately, General Presidency erage ee Pee The Cover: Farmstead in Sanpete Valley, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Frontispiece: Winter to the East, Near Snyderville, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes The Relief SOCICty Magazine Volume 56 January 1969 Number 1 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Our Children— " The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" Pe fA President Joseph Fielding Smith SF Of the First Presidency [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] m@ My dear sisters: I am very happy to be here with you today, and I hope and pray that what I might say will be of benefit to one and all. There are certain old truths which will be truths as long as the world endures, and which no amount of progress can change. One of these is that the family (the organization consisting of father, mother, and children) is the foundation of all things in the Church; another, that sins against pure and healthy family life are those which, of all others, are sure in the end to be visited most heavily upon the nations in which they take place. So, we must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty in the Church. But each of you, as mothers, can strive—at least as light: and strength are given you —toward the ideal home where there must exist a perfect companionship between parents and children, built upon the feeling of mutual interest, knowledge, taste, and sympathy. Far more important than the question of occupation or wealth 4 of people is the question of how their family life is conducted. All other things are of minor consequence, so long as there are real homes, and so long as those who make up these homes do their duty to each other. I am sure, my good sisters, there is no disagreement among us as to the importance of the home. Roosevelt has compared a home without children to "a land without Our Children—''The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden" trees—barren and_ unfruitful." While some children will go wrong in spite of the best training, and some will go right even where their surroundings are most unfortunate, nevertheless, an immense amount depends upon the family training, and just through this family training comes the companionship of which we are speaking. WHAT DO THEY MEAN TO US? If I were to put the question here today, there is not a shadow of doubt what the answer would be—"What do our children mean to us?" Our children—"The loveliest flowers from God's own garden," as one old writer expressed it. The attitude of our Heavenly Father toward this great privilege of parenthood is shown in the story of Abraham, upon whose head was pronounced the blessing of all worldly wealth and honor, but the triumph of triumphs, the crowning blessing, was the promise of a posterity numerous as the sands upon the seashore. From the inspiration of the gospel we draw the impelling motives for our aims in life, and we get a proper sense of values if we live up to its teachings. This has taught us the real significance of the question: "For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?" (Mark 8:36.) What doth it profit us, though we gain the whole world, and lose the souls of our children? So you mothers see that this privilege of parenthood, this blessing of children, carries with it the gravest responsibility of life. Our duty is hard, our tasks are great, but greatest of all is our reward. Into the woman's keeping is committed the destiny of the generations to come after us. Surely she who can train her sons and daughters is_ thrice fortunate among them, and if she has succeeded so far, she has accomplished it through the establishment of a companionship with her children. It can never be done through any other medium. WHAT OF THE WORLD? Since the world began there have been only two classes of people, one who declares that our times are the worst the world has seen, and another one which claims our times are the best. I believe we as a people belong to the latter class, with some reservations. Surely we appreciate our blessings, but we are not blind enough not to see that there are many great and real dangers to be reckoned with, and _ those which concern us more than all others combined have to do with our children. The only real protection or adequate defense can be afforded by the home and its influences. But there is no denying the fact that some of our young people, especially girls, have gone in for crime professionally, on a scale extensive enough to be alarming. There is at least one sure cure: training the girls in the home. Girls are not trained in the home today as they used to be. A girl should be taught some useful household tasks, or, at the very least, given by teaching and good example, a good standard of morals. Many girls of 

5 January 1969

 today have no moral sense whatsoever. It is an age of conservatism versus jazz, and there is no understanding nor sympathy between parents and children, too many times. Mothers give too little—girls take too much. They begin picking at each other instead of quietly and thoroughly threshing it out and coming to an understanding. If you parents have not that patience, forbearance, to understand these "jazzage children," they will cut loose and go where they are understood, and therein lies the tragedy of the situation. It is only when parents and children come to a fellowship built upon _ understanding that they can be one in feeling and in heart. The fact that young people are ungrateful is a very common lament among us today. Well, they are—it is true. Some children are just naturally grateful and appreciative, others just the contrary. But this development of the trait of ingratitude indicates a woeful lack of education along the lines of appreciation, either of the material gifts, service rendered, or of the things worthwhile in the world. Certainly this fault, if any in all the category, can be charged to parents' neglect. RESPECT THE LAWS OF GOD Perhaps the fault of our children today is the lack of reverence, the disregard for any authority, temporal or spiritual. But, is the sin confined to the young alone? Is it not an irreverent age? Here again must we resort to the home as the one sure cure, and see to it that it is a 6 sanctuary where the laws of God are respected and observed. I have deliberately stressed the home as the greatest, most unfailing source of all good things in the world, but it is the workshop where human characters are built and the manner in which they are formed depends upon the relationship existing between parents and the children. The home cannot be what it should be unless these relations are of the proper character. Whether they are so or not depends, it is true, upon both parents and children, but much more upon parents. They must do their best. Most effective training is done before the child is old enough to appreciate what is being done. Teach the little ones to do the right thing. The great Master Teacher said, "Man cannot live by bread alone," neither can children live by merely having their material wants cared for. This is very necessary, it is true, but it is only a part; so far as the mother is concerned, much the easiest part of the work. First of all parents must try to be, or at least put forth their best efforts to be, what they wish the children to be. It is impossible for you to be an example of what you are not. The only way to teach children the beauty and use in service is to teach them how, and permit them to render it. "Oh, go away and leave me alone, I haven't time to be bothered," said a hurried, impatient mother to her little three-year-old daughter who was trying to help perform a certain household task. I shall have to Our Children—''The Loveliest Flowers From God's Own Garden"' tell you what a youngster said to his mother when Sister Smith and I attended a stake conference in New York. Sister Smith asked all present to tell their mothers and fathers that they loved them, and for the parents not to push them away, when they came to tell them. This little child went to his mother and said, "Mama, I love you, and don't you push me away, like. The good lady said." With whom rests the fault? The desire to help is born with every normal child and parents have no right to complain. There can be no such thing as household drudgery when all assist with the tasks, and through the association in the discharge of these duties comes the sweetest companionship that can be experienced. DEVELOP SYMPATHETIC UNDERSTANDING If I had to suggest one thing which I think we as parents are most lacking, it would be a sympathetic understanding of our children. Live with the children; follow their paths, try with them to read "books in the running brooks/Sermons in stones and good in every thing." Teach them that the flower of youth never looks so lovely as when it bends to the sun of righteousness. Know everything that claims the interest of the children, be a good sport with them, remembering always in the beautiful words of Wordsworth, "A child, more than all other gifts that earth can offer to declining man, brings hope with it and forward looking thoughts." As I look back on the history of our people, I see a past that is full of glory; looking ahead, I see a future full of promise. We have faith that we shall not prove false to the memories of the men and women of the mighty past. They did their work and left us the splendid heritage which we now enjoy. Our highest aim is through the medium of loving companionship, to train our children to appreciate their inheritance. We may thus, in our turn, have the assured confidence that we shall be able to leave this heritage unwasted and enlarged to our children's children. I am sure if we teach these things to the sisters of the Relief Society we shall see the fruits of companionship of parents and children, and what a great joy we will have in teaching these things that the Lord feels so important because he has stated, that we as parents will be held responsible if we fail in our teaching the gospel truths to our children. President McKay said: I know of no better way to bring about harmony in the home, in the neighborhood, in organizations, peace in our country, and in the world than for every man and woman first to eliminate from his or her heart the enemies of harmony and peace such as _ hatred, selfishness, greed, animosity, and envy. Now may the Lord bless you good sisters as you go into your different stakes and wards, and may his Spirit be with you and guide, guard, and protect you in the service of our Master, and I leave my blessing with you, and I am sure that President McKay would like me to express his love for you, also, and I ask these blessings in the name of Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen. COM AA MAA RARAR PRA RAR RR SOMO OO S83 Ca ~ ~ SS Obligations of oS Membership in Relief Society —— Elder Harold B. Lee S833 Of The Council of the Twelve S33 SS SQ ' [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of the Annual SQ General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1968. ] XS MD OD OD) 01) 0) 0) 09 0) 1 aN AN AN ANON AAA AAIAA ~avbe4 ak BY NYO vo P 4 RERKRN RK RRR OH w As you may have observed, I think I have almost. Rewritten what I had planned to say to you. After the skit which has just been presented, and the singing of this beautiful chorus, the Lord willing and with your faith and prayers, and humbled by Sister Spafford's most unusual and, I'm afraid, all too undeserving introduction, Ishould attempt to talk somewhat to a subject which the Relief Society Presidency have suggested. This was the letter of the Relief Society Presidency from which I read. "We feel the need for an authoritative statement on the obligations of membership in Relief Society as stated in a message of the First Presidency in commemoration of the 100th anniversary of the Relief Society as published in A Centenary of Relief Society." This was the statement: This divinely inspired origin brings with it a corresponding responsibility, in consecration to service, and in the loftiest loyalty to the Priesthood of God and to one another. The members should 8 J QO OL A} A UU OOO PERRARRRRR RHE permit neither hostile nor competitive interests of any kind to detract from the duties and obligations, the privileges and honors, the opportunities and achievements of membership in_ this great Society. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 7.) That, I am sure, you will recognize as a tremendous chal- lenge to one assigned to address this great conference. As I studied that statement of the First Presidency, there came back to me a statement that must have come from a great teacher who knew the importance of repetition as the soul of learning. This was cast in great long words, but every one of them is meaningful, and this I shall give to you. "Frequent recurrence to fundamentalsisessential to perpetuity." Now, if you think about that, "frequent recurrence to fundamentals is essential to perpetuity." As I analyzed the statement of the First Presidency, I became aware that there were four headings. And it is to those four headings that I shall now attempt to make a few comments. First: The responsibility of Relief Society in consecration to service. Consecration means to set apart or devote to the service or worship of God. Service means a performance of labor for the benefit of another; spiritual serving, as shown by obedience, good works, and love, as dedicated to the service of God. As I listened to this skit on obedience, impressing obedience to what the Brethren have commanded, or have instructed, or have pleaded with us regarding family home evening, I am tempted to repeat some of what I said to you a year ago, at least to recall to you a few things, as I link it with this specific part of the Presidency's message. MOTHER'S ROLE IS TO TEACH GOSPEL What is the mother's role, Obligations of Membership in Relief Society then, in the great service of the kingdom? Her first and most important role is to remember the teaching of the gospel in the family as it was expressed in the first revelation, given in the First Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, which has been called the Preface to the revelations to this day, and four important purposes of gospel restoration asthey apply particularly to the home were expressed. And then I read from the First Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: a. "That faith also might increase in the earth And inasmuch as they erred that it might be made known; b. "And inasmuch as they sought wisdom that they might be instructed; c. "And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent; d. "And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time." (D&C 1:21, 25-28.) Now the mother's role in this vital home-centered gospel teachIng ls very clear, and I just speak now of some of those things to recall what you just heard and witnessed in this excellent presentation that has been called to our attention. Put Father at the head of the house. And as they said, even when he doesn't seem to deserve it. Provoking husbands to honor their priesthood when they are not honoring their priesthood; enlisting the aid of the priesthood in helping you with family problems—home teachers, holding of your family home evenings, and even if Father isn't there, or even if some of the children are 

9 January 1969

 not always there, but make an effort to see to it ahead of time that everyone is alerted to the fact that this night is family home night, and there must be nothing to interfere. Mothers stay at the crossroads of the home. Some time ago, I was attending a quarterly stake conference in a stake that I will not identify, and the names I will use will not be the real names, lest you try to identify it. THE IMPORTANCE OF TEMPLE MARRIAGE I had looked over the statistics and had discovered a very poor percentage of those who were married had been married in the temple. And as I looked over the afternoon conference session, I said to the president of the stake, thinking of something that might be done and said to awaken them to the need for some more impressive attendance of this vital matter, "Have you some mother here, an older mother, who had a large family and had the joy of seeing every one of her family married in the temple?" He looked out over the audience and he said, "Well, there is Sister (I shall call her Sister Jones), she has had a family of eleven, and they all have been married in the temple, but you don't expect to call her up to speak? She has never been called on to speak to an audience of this kind." I said, "I suppose not, if she's raised a family of eleven. I didn't say I was going to call on her to speak, I want her to come up here, I want to ask her a few questions." 10 And as this lovely whitehaired mother stood beside me at the microphone, I said, "Would you take a lesson out of your book and tell us, what have you done to reach this most marvelous achievement?" And she replied, "Well, I never thought of it." But I urged ~her for a further expression. "I might give you two suggestions. In the first place, when our family was growing up, I always was there at the crossroads of the home, when my children were coming to or going from the home. And second: whatever we did we did together as a family. We played together, we prayed together, we worked together, we did everything together. I guess that's all I can think of." I said to her, "Now you have preached two great sermons." Then I looked down at the audience and there was a young mother holding in her arms what I supposed was her first baby, and I asked the stake president, "Was that young lady married in the temple?"

and he replied, "Yes," so I invited her to come to the stand and asked her if she would say something about how important she' considered her temple marriage. PART OF AN ETERNAL FAMILY CIRCLE When she got her breath, she said, "Well, I am the eleventh child of that mother who has just spoken. And when you asked her those questions I said, why doesn't he ask us that question? We know what mother did, that made us wish to do what she wanted us to do in the home." Then she told of some of the experiences she had had as she grew up. She obtained employment by a man who was a "wolf,' who tried to take advantage of the young girls who worked in that place of employment. She resisted, but he made fun of her parents. What he said was contrary to the standards of her home, to the teachings of her parents. He said, "Why don't you grow up, why don't you have some fun, why do you have to stay tied to these old folks of yours?" And so she thought maybe she was a little too restrained. So the next Sunday morning she said, "Mother, I am not going to Sunday School." Mother looked a little startled, and she said, "All right, my dear, you are old enough to know your own mind." And then she added, "I sat at the window and watched the two white-topped "buggies" drawn out of the farm yard on the way to church, and it was so far that after Sunday School, with an hour recess, they went back in for sacrament meeting, so it meant that I was home all day long, all alone. It was the loneliest day that I had ever spent. And I resolved that day that never again as long as life lasted, would I ever do anything consciously that would deprive me of the right to belong to my wonderful family." I say to you mothers today that the greatest deterrent to keep your children from going contrary to your counsel will be the fear of losing their place in the eternal family circle. But they will not lose their place in the kingdom if you have built a wonderful home life and have Obligations of Membership in Relief Society been holding your Family Home Evenings. LOYALTY TO THE PRIESTHOOD The second point that the Presidency makes essential is loyalty to the Priesthood of God. I have been reading some interesting history from _ secular sources—Dr. Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History, and there it has been interesting for me to see how many facets of today's organization are clearly set forth where apostolic authority is defined, where organizations that would be comparable to our stakes were presided over by leaders like ours; where the tithing system was clearly outlined; the manner of address, "brother'"' and "sister;" where priesthood watchmen were clearly defined; stakes, which they called duioceses; all churches are subject to apostles. The holy scriptures were guides to Christianity. And apostates began to usurp authority and to call themselves by church titles, and the progress of the church to be attributed to human means not to divine power. As I thought of this assignment, I looked to see if I could find something that would parallel the Relief Society. The Lord had said through the apostle Paul: And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. (I Corinthians 12:28.) Dummelow's Bible Commentary explains that helps, as used in the scriptures, could be inter- 

11 January 1969

 preted as "including the original work of deacons, ministrations to the poor and sick." (Page 913.) And from Mosheim's Ecclesiastical History: The people by offering large and generous contributions when the safety and interests of the community rendered them necessary... Each one bore a part proportioned to his circumstances. These were brought before the 'assemblies and were called "oblations." There reigned among the members of the Christian church a perfect equality. This appeared by the feasts of charity in which all were indiscriminately assembled; by the names of brethren and sisters. (Mosheim's Ecclesiastical Htstory, page 104.) Then he goes on: Some, particularly of the eastern churches, elected deaconesses and chose for that purpose, matrons or widows of eminent sanctity who administered to the necessities of the poor, and performed several other offices, that tended to the maintenance of order and decency in the church. Did you ever hear of the Relief Society so well described? BISHOP'S WORK WITH RELIEF SOCIETY And again he describes the work of the bishops as it relates to this organization. Let none, however, confound the bishops of this primitive and 'golden period of the church with those we read of in the following pages. For though they were both distinguished by the same name, yet they differed extremely, and that in many respects. A bishop during the first and second century, was a person who had the care of one Christian assembly, which at that time was, generally speaking, small enough to be contained in a private house. In this 12 assembly he acted not so much with the authority of a master, as with the zeal and diligence of a faithful servant. He instructed the people, performed the several parts of divine worship. Attended the sick, and inspected into the circumstances and supplies of the poor. He charged, indeed, the presbyters (elders) with the performance of those duties and services, which the multiplicity of his engagements rendered it impossible for him to fill; but had not the power to decide or enact anything without the consent of the presbyters (elders) and the people. The revenues were extremely small, since the church had no certain income, but depended upon gifts or oblations of the multitude, which, no doubt, were inconsiderable. (Ibid. Pp. 105-106.) There you have it. The Relief Society helps in the government of the Church. The Relief Society, as no other organization, is the "handmaiden" of the Priesthood of God. In their joint responsibility in rendering compasslonate service, they present a sort of "Father and Mother Image' in the Kingdom of God to look after the needy and the unfortunate. LOYALTY TO EACH OTHER Now this next, Mothers, the Presidency calls your attention to loyalty to each other. Visiting teachers have their place in the teaching of mothers who have not developed the knowledge and methods in keeping pace with their children. And, as I wrote that statement here, I remembered what somebody said, "If you want to keep young, go where youth are, and if you want to get old, try to keep up with them." But there was something that was said to me by a banker friend, a short while ago, who was visiting our city. He took me aside and said, "I have a daughter who is having disciplinary problems with her family. I have just said to her, 'I want you to go out and live among the Mormon people where they can teach you how to discipline your children. My daughter, looked at me and said, 'You mean you want me to join the Church?' I said, "That's exactly what I mean.' " I asked him if he knew about our Family Home Evening program. He had never heard of it. I sent him two Family Home Evening Manuals, one for last year, and one for this year, and suggested that he give these as a help to his daughter in counseling with her daughter.