[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 65 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message—". . . And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More." Alice | Colton Smith]

Lesson Department

The poet Milton wrote, "They also serve who only stand and wait"—applicable whereenduring patience may be the needed virtue; a virtue manifest in the faithful soldier, waiting and watching through the long hours of the night, or the captain of a ship, who, not thinking of himself, waits until all passengers are safe in the lifeboats; a virtue which was not evidenced in the undependable watchman on the tower. (D&C 101:44-55.)

NOT WHERE, BUT HOW

Question for Discussion

If those who follow also serve, what is the human denominator which makes a difference in the quality of service?

Much less, perhaps, has been written about the requirements for effective "followership" than about the qualifications of those who lead. Yet, "followership" also is important, and there is a factor in the rendering of service, wherever that service may be, which may make the difference between the partial or total success of any enterprise. It also may make the difference between personal growth and complacent mediocrity. Willingness to accept counsel, to do whatever one is called to do in the service of the Lord, as opposed to reluctant, half-hearted compliance, may be the differing factor. Who thus, it is not where one serves, but the spirit and diligence with which one serves that are all important. Nor is there any place, in the service to the Church, for honor-seeking or an attitude of jealousy, on the part of either those who lead or those who follow.

For Class Consideration

Discuss the importance of attitude in the service a woman renders (a) her family; (b) her friends; (c) any position she may hold in the Church.

Only when wisely directed leadership is matched by wise and dedicated "followership" may we hope for completely successful results. The application of this principle is clearly evident in the successful operation of a ward or stake Relief Society.

The message of the beautifully expressed address commemorating the coming of the Mormon pioneers 100 years before, delivered by President Clark at a session of the General Conference of the Church, October 5, 1947, is relevant to this statement.

Speaking of those who were of that "great trek, the mightiest trek that history records since Israel's flight from Egypt," President Clark pays impressive and humble tribute to:

". . . especially to the meekest and lowliest of them, those great souls, majestic in the simplicity of their faith and in their living testimony of the truth of the restored gospel, to those souls in name unknown, unremembered, unhonored in the pages of history, but lovingly revered round the hearthstones of their children and their children's children who pass down from generation to generation the story of their faith and their mighty works, and the righteousness of their lives and living, those souls who worked and worked, and prayed and followed, and wrought so gloriously.

"I would not take away one word of praise or gratitude, honor

69

or reverence from the great men who led these humble ones of ours. They were mighty men in brain and brawn, in courage and valor, in honesty and in love of truth, living near the Lord—brothers Brigham and Heber and Wilford and Willard and Charles, the two Orsons and Parley and John and George and Erastus and Lorenzo and Daniel and Joseph and Jedediah, and a host of other giants, each and all richly blessed with the Lord's divine love and with that gift of the Holy Ghost that made them leaders truly like unto Moses of old. I yield, we yield, to no one in our gratitude for them and for their work of directing the conquest of the wilderness and of saving men's souls. Their names shine lustrously on those pages of history which record only the doings of the makers of epochs—these choice spirits, chosen before the foundation of the world, to be the leaders and builders of dispensations of God's dealings with men; and these leaders of ours to be the builders of that dispensation which of old was named the Dispensation of the Fullness of Time. Unnumbered eternities will remember and honor them.

"But I should like now and here to say a few words about those who trod after where those giants led, some in the same companies that the Brethren piloted, some in later companies following that year and the years after, some in the fateful handcart with their unexcelled devotion, heroism, and faith, all trickling forward in a never-failing, tiny stream, till they filled the valley they entered and then

flowed out at the sides and ends, peopling this whole wilderness-waste which they fructified, making it to fulfil the ancient prophecy that the desert should blossom as the rose.

"I would like to say something about the last wagon in each of the long wagon trains that toiled slowly over the plains, up mountain defiles, down steep, narrow canyons, and out into the valley floor that was to be home—this last wagon: last, because the ox team that pulled it was the smallest and leanest and weakest, and had the tenderest feet of any in the train; it was slow starting, and slow moving; last, because worn and creaking, it took more time to fix and to grease, for young Jimmy generally had trouble in getting the wagon jack under the "ex"; last, because its wind-rent cover was old and patched and took hours to mend and tie up to keep out the storm; last, because the wife, heavy with child, must rest till the very moment of starting; last, because sickly little Bill, the last born, poorly nourished, must be washed and coaxed to eat the rough food, all they had; last, because with all his tasks—helping little Bill, cooking and cleaning up the breakfast,—Mother was not able to help much—Father took a little longer to yoke his cattle and to gird himself for the day's labor; last, because his morning prayers took a few more minutes than the others spent—he had so many blessings to thank the Lord for and some special blessings to ask the Lord to grant, blessings of health and strength, especially for his wife,

70
