[Vol56 | January 1969 | Page 25 | Special Feature | Genealogical Society | ]
[Genealogical Society]

vocal works of the last century have been renewed because of her superb vocal artistry.'' Australian-born, the diva is nowssoloist to the world. 

21 January 1969

 m As one studies the scriptures, one wonders at the power of fasting and prayer. President Joseph F. Smith said that, if observed by the world,... Fasting would call attention to the sin of overeating, place the body in subjection to the spirit, and so promote communion with the Holy Ghost, and insure a Spiritual strength and power. As fasting should always be accompanied by prayer, this law would bring people nearer to God. (Gospel Doctrine, Third Edition, page 298.) We read that Daniel was given power and understanding after mourning three full weeks, I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled. Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words. (Dan. 10:3, 12.) Inspiring words on fasting and its power are learned from the experiences of the sons of MoSiah: they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God. (Alma 17:3.) Experiencing joy seems to be a part of true fasting, also, for one reads in the Doctrine and Covenants:... That thy fasting may be perfect, or in other words, that thy joy may be full. Verily, this is fasting and prayer, or, 22 eDiroRIAL Fastin in other words, (D&C 59:13-14.) rejoicing and_ prayer. While the observance of. Fast Day is outlined in some detail, the principle of fasting would seem to be an observance in the gospel which is left to the individual to live. How often should one pray on a Fast Day is left to the individual to decide. How often should one fast at other times than Fast Day is also a matter of individual decision. In times of grave illness and heavy trouble, however, instinctively one seeks the Lord in fasting and prayer, for the scriptures teach the power to be found Volume 56 January 1969 Number 1 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Evon W. Peterson, SecretaryTreasurer I: and Prayer therein. The Lord has said that he will not command in all things. President Joseph F. Smith said 'God delights in the willing heart.' (J. D. 25:59.) When one fasts it should be accompanied by joy. The Savior said:... When ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance... That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret. (Matt. 6:16, 18.) President Joseph F. Smith added the comment, ''In other words, appear to the world to be happy.'' (J. D. 25:58.) Emphasizing the personal disAnna B. Hart Anne R. Gledhill Edith S. Elliott Belva B. Ashton Florence J. Madsen Zola J. McGhie Leone G.