My neighbor who was ill in the hospital asked for something new and different to read. I took her The Relief Society Magazine — small and easy to handle and with a very colorful cover. She was delighted, and read it immediately. Then the night 'nurse: saw it lying on the bed and asked what kind of magazine-it was, and if she might read it. My neighbor told her she was welcome to read the Magazine, but to be sure to return it. The next night the nurse returned the Magazine. She had especially enjoyed the stories and recipes. When my neighbor was being brought home from the hospital the woman who was taking her home asked to read the Magazine. She liked: the stories and poems. All this created an interest in the Church,. And the woman who took my neighbor home from the hospital is to be baptized at our next baptism day. Let's every one of us be a missionary. Geneva Cluff Phoenix, Arizona Thank you for the beautiful Magazine.. We sell more Relief Society Magazines each year, and we know they will help each subscriber to gain a testimony of the gospel, and also help to make a happier home by following the instructions pertaining to becoming a better wife, mother, and homemaker. Laura R. Shimp President Huntington Park Stake Relief: Society, California I really appreciate and love the Magazine, and my _ twelve-year-old daughter reads it before I get a chance, part of the time. Thank you for the Magazine and the lovely lessons. Beverly Culwell North Little Rock Arkansas 162 ee ee eee eT eee ELISE TSP LTR ETT BOVE Se I enjoy. My Relief Society Magazine very' much, and I have saved all the Magazines since I joined the Church. Today, I have parted with some of the Magazines, and I know that some of them will never return, but I am sure the older ladies in the nursing home where I sent them will enjoy them, because they are small enough to handle in bed. The stories - and lessons are not so long that they would lose interest in reading them. Mrs. Audrey Warren Charles City, Iowa — The visiting teacher message for the month of October ("Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to. Forgive One Another," by Christine H. Robinson) is one of the best lessons I have - ever taught. It is put. Together so. Beautifully. Mrs. Dee. Phillips Ferndale, Michigan As a young mother, with four children, and a husband in the bishopric, I find the Magazine a great source of inspiration and encouragement. Whenever I feel blue or discouraged, I can always find just the right article to touch my heart and inspire me to do better. Sharon T. Koster Provo, Utah. I I am a girl of fifteen and I received the lovely Relief Society Magazine as a Christmas gift two years ago from my. Grandmother. I love the beautiful covers and enjoy the stories very much, as well as the poetry in each issue. May I say it is not only the older women, but also the girls of my age who read and love the Magazine. From a future Relief Society member. Marilyn Child Springville, Utah 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1964 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.