[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 219 | Home | Our Chapel Margaret | B. Shomaker]
tast  your  bread  upon  the  n\^ 
Olive  Sharp 
For  a  long  time  I  have  been  wanting  to  write  an  article  —  "Cast  thy  bread  upon  the 
waters:  for  thou  shalt  find  it  after  many  days." 
As  a  small  girl  out  in  Wyoming,  I  attended  Sunday  School  in  a  little  log  cabin. 
I  loved  the  music  and  the  singing,  also  the  small  cards  that  were  given  each  child  on 
Sunday.  They  were  not  much  larger  than  a  large  postage  stamp,  but  the  messages 
those  cards  held  covered  most  of  the  Ten  Commandments. 
At  first  I  did  not  quite  grasp  their  meanings,  but,  as  I  grew  older,  those  mes- 
sages began  to  dawn  upon  me  and  I  could  see  the  ground  they  covered.  We  would 
receive  a  small  card  every  Sunday,  and  when  we  had  collected  twelve,  we  would  be 
given  a  small  reward. 
I  am  sure  the  things  we  commit  to  memory,  while  young,  stay  with  us  all  of  our 
lives,  and  that  is  why  good  deeds  should  be  stamped  on  our  children's  memories. 
Now  that  I  am  eighty  years  old,  the  blessings  I  am  finding  from  several  sources  are 
coming  back  to  me. 
Once  I  helped  a  niece  through  high  school.  Now  she  is  very  kind  and  thought- 
ful of  me,  and  for  Mother's  Day  sent  me  a  first-class  jet  ticket  from  Salt  Lake  City  to 
San  Diego,  and  return.    That  is  where  she  is  living. 
Another  little  English  girl  I  helped,  and  she  helped  me  with  my  children,  now 
takes  us  on  nice  trips  in  their  car  to  such  places  as  Los  Angeles  and  Bear  Lake. 
A  cousin,  now  living  in  Anchorage,  whom  I  helped  a  little  while  her  children  were 
young  and  she  was  having  a  hard  struggle,  now  is  doing  well  in  Alaska.  The  family 
have  often  invited  me  to  spend  the  summer  with  them,  and  she  and  her  husband 
called  the  other  day  in  a  new  car  and  insisted  that  I  return  to  Alaska  with  them.  I 
found  out  how  far  it  was  and  that  it  would  take  one  week  to  reach  their  place. 
Oh,  how  I  would  have  loved  to  have  gone  through  those  large  forests  and  the 
wild  country,  but  I  was  afraid  that  I  was  too  old,  and  that  I  might  cause  them,  and 
myself  trouble,  so  I  did  not  go. 
I  could  tell  what  a  pat  on  the  back,  a  smile,  a  word  of  sympathy  mean  to  old 
friends,  and  also  to  myself. 
My  motto  is,  "Count  that  day  lost  when  the  low  descending  sun  views  from  thy 
hand  no  worthy  action  done."  Surely,  ".  .  .as  the  twig  is  bent  the  tree's  inclined." 
If  you  cast  your  bread  upon  the  waters,  you  will  find  it  after  many  days. 
Our  Chapel 
Margaret  B.  Shomaker 
Our  chapel  is  the  strength  of  yesterday, 
The  experience  of  today,  and 
The  trust  for  tomorrow. 
It  is  our  edifice  of  the  present  ifc*    i 
For  the  future — 
A  beatitude  to  man  .  .  . 
A  covenant  with  God.  %#^h 
219
