[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 213 | Special Feature | Second Chance Blanche | M. Hollingsworth]

Second chance

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a young boy running]

Blanche M. Hollingsworth

HELEN Hurley was making cookies, but her heart really wasn't in the process today. She had rolled the dough out and had opened the drawer for the cookie cutter, when she saw the cutouts for the horse, the rabbit, the chicken, and the gingerbread man. These were the ones Bobby liked to use when he helped with the cookies, but, she thought, it would look silly for me to make animal cookies for just John and me.

With a deep sigh, she put them back in the drawer and cut the dough in regular round cookies.

Bobby had always been on hand for cookie making. No matter what else he was doing, he would come running at cookie baking time.

"Is it time to cut them out, Mama?" he would ask a dozen times during the process. "Can I put the raisin eyes in now?"

With regret in her heart and near to tears, she remembered the times when she had thought she was just too busy to be bothered with him. She was always in such a hurry, it seemed, and it took time to let him cut the animals out and put eyes in.

Too busy? What had she been thinking of? Actually, it took only a minute or two to cut them out, and she remembered how happy he was to help her, and how proud he was when he showed the baked cookies to his father and said, "Look, Daddy, look, I made them all myself."

Later, when she roused herself, she remembered that she had planned to scrub and wax the floors today. They really didn't need cleaning, though, she thought, as she looked the floors over. No one is here to track mud or dirt in.

Track mud in. . . . It had been about a month ago, and she had just finished scrubbing and waxing the floor when she heard the screen door slam and Bobby came running in.

"Mama, Mama, do you know what?" he began excitedly.

"Bobby," she scolded. "How many times must I tell you not to slam that screen door? And you've tracked mud all over my clean floor!"

For the first time she noticed his clothes, and continued in a tone of exasperation. "And what have you been doing to get your clothes so dirty? Why, you've even torn your shirt."

It wasn't until then that she noticed his face. He looked so crestfallen, and there was a hurt expression in his eyes.

In a subdued voice she then asked, "What was it you wanted to tell me?"

213

MARCH 1964

Although he told her about the bird building a nest in the tree by the garage, and that he had to crawl on a ledge to see better, the joy of sharing his secret with her had been ruined by her words.

Almost as if her mother were in the room and repeating the words again, she heard her say, "You know, Helen, a mud-tracked floor can be wiped clean again. A torn shirt can be mended, but it isn't easy to put the joy back on the face of a child, or take the hurt look out of his eyes when harsh words have been spoken."

How right her mother had been. Why, oh, why was I always so quick to scold him? she thought. The mud on the floor really didn't matter compared to the experience he had had in watching the bird gather string, leaves, twigs, and scraps of cloth and painstakingly carry each piece to the tree to make her nest. In his haste to get on the ledge before the bird returned from one of her trips, he had torn his shirt.

She recalled how excited and how anxious he had been to share his experience with her, then she had spoiled it all by her hastily spoken words.

If only a mother could always have a second chance to right things, to do better, to be more patient.

She would have to get hold of herself, too, she thought, before John got home.

As she moved the playbox in Bobby's room to start the vacuuming, a blue canvas shoe fell out. Although Bobby had outgrown the shoes, for some reason he had insisted on keeping them.

Grandfather Parker had made the box for him and had painted it a bright red. Because Bobby liked his grandfather's tool box so well, the playbox had been made as nearly like the tool box as possible — even to the lock and key that seemed to fascinate Bobby.

"Now, Bobby," grandfather had said when he brought the box to him one week end, "you can keep all your toys in this box. Your room will look neat and clean, if you put the toys back in the box after you get through playing with them. How do you think my saws and hammers would look if I left them out of the toolbox? And another thing, I'd never know where to find them when I needed them for a job."

At first Bobby had remembered every night to put all the toys in the box but, as the newness wore away, he sometimes forgot. She had even scolded him for that, Helen remembered, forgetting that he was just a little boy without a grown-up's sense of responsibility.

Now, as she stood holding the shoe in her hand, she noticed that the shoelace was missing.

Shoelaces. . . . How many times a day had Bobby come running in the house saying, "Mama, do you know what?"

And her answer had usually been, and with a lump in her throat she remembered saying, "Bobby, will you please tie up those shoelaces? You are forever tripping over them."

Although he stopped telling the story he had been so excited about and patiently stooped to tie his shoe-

214

SECOND CHANCE

laces, by the time he had finished, the smile had left his face, the shining light had left his eyes, and the excitement had faded from his voice, when he told the important bit of news.

With her eyes full of fresh tears, Helen put the shoe back in the playbox.

Later, when she was peeling potatoes in preparation for dinner, she heard a car come up the driveway. Surely it wasn't John already. She hurried to the window to see.

It was her parents. They hadn't planned to come until Saturday, and it was only Wednesday. Now, she thought, I wonder what is wrong, and she had a moment of panic. Nothing seemed to be wrong, because they were both smiling.

Her father brought the car to a stop near the kitchen door.

Between her parents, sitting tall in the seat and grinning from ear to ear, was Bobby. He looked different, and it took Helen a few seconds to figure out why he looked different — and then she knew! He had lost his two front teeth. They had been loose when he left with his grandparents for a two weeks' visit with them on their farm.

Helen was so anxious to get to Bobby that she was startled when she heard the screen door slam behind her as she ran from the house.

Bobby, with that unruly lock of hair that stuck straight up in the air in spite of many combings and water, grinned a toothless smile at his mother and then stumbled over his grandmother's feet in his haste to get to her. As he started toward her he tripped and nearly fell over his untied shoelaces.

Habit was strong, and Helen caught herself almost saying, "Bobby, will you please tie your shoelaces?" But she checked her words in time.

All out of breath with the excitement and importance of it all, Bobby said, "Mama, do you know what?" And then he paused for the magic words from her.

"No, what?"

"I rode the pony all by myself. Grandpa let me. I found a nest of baby kittens, and they were so little they didn't even have their eyes open. And that banty hen, she has ten chickens. If I hold my hand like this," and he cupped his hand, "they fit in just right, and they are so little and fluffy and cute."

Helen's mother was trying to catch her eye to explain a few things. Over Bobby's head she was saying in snatches of conversation, "... Came a few days earlier — a little homesick we thought — he's young — first time away for so long — they get well so thoroughly...."

Bobby had finished his recital and then shouted, "Daddy!"

Sure enough, John was just turning the corner.

Helen cried in dismay, "The dinner — I haven't even put the potatoes on." The two women hurried into the house.

Grandpa and Bobby stood in the driveway waiting for John, and Helen heard Bobby say, "Daddy, do you know what?"

She stood by the window just a second longer, looking at the three of them. Yes, Helen thought, I am one of the fortunate ones. I have a second chance.

215
