[Vol51 | March 1964 | Page 216 | Special Feature | What Does Your Speech Reveal? | Myrtle Henderson]

What does your
SPEECH
reveal?

Correcting
Grammar
Faults
of
Common
Usage

Myrtle Henderson, B.S.
Former Head, Speech Department, Dixie College

SHE shore done a good job on my hair!" How often we have heard such glaring mistakes! The one who makes them is saying that she is a careless person, or that she has forgotten what she has learned in school, or that she has never learned the simple rules of correct English. Such mistakes are as noticeable as walking down the street with one red and one green shoe. How much better to have said, "She surely did a good job on my hair" or better, "She surely did my hair well."

Some grammatical errors are more common in specific localities, and others are more universal, but all grammatical mistakes exemplify misunderstanding or lack of knowledge of the rules of correct speech. With a little effort we can overcome our habits of uncultured speech, and not only make a better impression on our friends and the people we meet, but also, we can set a correct example for our children to follow.

Obviously, one article cannot give all the rules of correct grammar in one easy lesson, but it can point out some of the most frequent offenders, and help to establish a basis for further study and practice.

Some of the common errors are made in the use of the verbs saw and seen and did and done. The verbs seen and done are parts of teams and work in double harness with their helpers have, has, or had. Saw and did can work alone. Here is a chart which, if studied carefully and used for frequent reference, will prove helpful.

Correct                          Incorrect

I saw it myself.                 I seen it myself.
She saw the show.               She seen the show.
They saw the girl.              They seen the girl.
I have seen the violet show.     I have saw the violet show.
They had seen the hole before the   They had saw the hole before the
    boy fell in.                     boy fell in.
I did the washing.              I done the washing.
She did the dishes.             She done the dishes.
They have done it many times.    They have did it many times.

216

WHAT DOES YOUR SPEECH REVEAL?

SOME people are a bit confused about which pronoun to use in the nominative and the objective case. It should be remembered that I and we are the first person pronouns to be used in the nominative case as subjects of the verb, while the pronouns me and us are the first person pronouns to be used as objects of verbs and prepositions.

These sentences will illustrate:

1. It is for us Latter-day Saints to remember the Sabbath Day.
   Us is the object of the preposition for. Never say, "It is for we."
   We must be used as a subject.

2. This doctrine is subscribed to by us Mormons. Never "by we
   Mormons."
   Us is the object of the preposition by. Mormons is simply a noun
   used in apposition to us.

3. This message applies to you and me. You and me are objects of
   the preposition to. Never use "to you and I."

4. We Latter-day Saints, must live our religion. We is the subject
   of the verb must live. Latter-day Saints is the noun in apposition
   to the subject We. We should never say, "Us Latter-day Saints
   must live our religion."

5. You and I will go. You and I are the subjects of the verb will go.

Sometimes we hear the expression, "Us girls are having a party." See how it would sound if we leave "girls" out and say, "Us are having a party." It is wrong because Us is the objective form and is being used as the subject of the sentence. Try saying, "We girls are having a party." Girls could be left out and we could still make sense. Why? Because We is the nominative case and is used as the subject of the sentence.

Sometimes we hear "Him and me will do that job." Can you see now what is wrong? Of course! Him and me are both in the objective case and should not be used as subjects of the sentence. "He and I will do the job," would be correct.

WE often get a scrambling of pronouns and cases by saying, "I and her helped the old lady." I in the nominative case and her in the objective — both used as the subject of the verb helped. Instead of "her," use the single nominative form "she." I indicates the speaker and should be placed last as: "She and I helped the old lady."

Two other pronouns which often give trouble are the nominative and objective forms of the interrogatives who and whom. Who should be used as the subject of the verb because it is in the nominative case. Whom should be used as the object of a verb or a preposition. These sentences will illustrate:

1. Who was there?                2. Whom did you see?

217

MARCH 1964

In the first sentence who is the subject of the verb was, but in the second sentence, you is the subject of the verb did see, and whom is the object of the verb did see. That will be clear if we change the sentence around and say, "You did see whom?"

Many people have difficulty in discovering the word which is the subject of a sentence when the subject is modified by a prepositional phrase. It is well to remember that the verb goes with the subject and is not supposed to be concerned with the prepositional phrase. The subjects are italicized and singular.

Correct                               Incorrect
The package of papers was lost.       The package of papers were lost.
One of the boys was late.            One of the boys were late.
Each of the flowers was in full      Each of the flowers were in full
bloom.                               bloom.
The collection of rocks was lost.    The collection of rocks were lost.

There are college graduates whose childhood training in incorrect grammar still remains to plague them. They may know the rules, but years of incorrect usage cause wrong words to slip out before there is time to think. Repetition of the correct grammar, over and over, until it is fixed in the mind and rolls off the tongue without thinking, is the best way to overcome daily errors in speech.

If parents would take care to use correct English at home, they would simplify their children's problem in learning grammar at school and at home. It can be done. I was thrilled to hear one evening a little three-year-old say to his mother, "To whom did you give it, mamma?" Both parents were careful to use correct English, and expected it of their children.
