[Vol9 | May 1922 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Freedom and the Changing Standards May Roberts Rinehart]

Freedom and the Changing Standards By Mary Roberts Rinehart. (Note—The following wise summing up of the social situation of our nation today, by America's foremost woman writer is copied, by permission, from a' recent issue of the Lapres Home JourNAL.—EDITor. ) The other day there died in England, killed by a fall from his polo pony, the last representative of an old American family. He had nothing to do except to amuse himself, and he killed himself in doing it. Behind him, to produce and equip him with sufficient wealth to enable him to live without effort, lay three centuries of laboring forbears, each striving and acquiring, to give him freedom. He represented the failure of freedom when it ceases to be for a principle and is applied in the sense of selfish individualism, First of all, his progenitors came to America seeking religious freedom. They had their own idea of freedom, for they discouraged the observance of Christmas Day, made their sole amusement attendance at meeting, and seated the congregation according to arbitrary rules uf rank and precedence, those who gave the most money being accorded special privilege. When that first American ancestor of the boy's went to church, it was under the watchful eye of a tithing man, one in charge of every ten families, who not only saw that his families gave a proper percentage to the church, but kept order during the service by strutting up and down the aisles. When the boy's ancestor slept in his pew he was wakened by the fox's tail which hung from one end of the tithing man's wand. When his children dozed they were rapped on the head with the knob at the other end. BEYOND SPLENDOR IS DANGER Life was simple and hardly comfortable. As its hardships were being endured for a faith, existence centered around the meeting-houses. And as for some reason an easy religion never has held as has the one which is made difficult, the boy's ancestor sat in an unheated building in a hard wooden pew, and was entitled to take his dog along as a foot warmer only by the payment of an extra sixpence. But the Puritans had come to America seeking freedom to  worship in their own way, and this was their way. The church was the state in those days, the state, the church, and many of the laws which the church promulgated are understandable from that point of view. The Puritans believed in group freedom, but they knew that no individual is safely free. Their revolt was mass revolt., In those early days, then, society was organized into a sort of watchful simplicity. Later it achieved dignity, and finally and recently, splendor. Beyond splendor a nation does not safely go. So the son of the boy's first American ancestor became one of the ruling class, a clergyman. He received fifty pounds in money a year, the first salmon from the sea each spring, and a portion of every whale cast up from the sea. And he had fifteen children, and managed to rear nine of them in a sort of austere simplicity and according to the patriarchal system. There was no such thing as liberty of the individual there. The home was largely a self-sustaining unit, where all labored and owed each to the other mutual responsibility. It was a benevolent autocracy, a sort of closed shop, not only of the home but of the entire colony. True, there were individualists even then, rebels against the Puritan union. Came in due time a Church of England clergyman who committed the following acts pf mental sabotage: He combed an unruly lock of his wig on the Sabbath; he was heard to whistle—he maintained he was only humming; he ran too fast from church; he walked in his garden on the Sabbath and picked a bunch of grapes. So, after a number of warnings, this early individualist was seized, tried and fined. After a time. However, these rebels increased in number, and actual religious freedom was achieved. Not domestic: the partriarchal system still held. Not social; the colonies were still sharply divided into casts—-the gentry, the yeomen and_ the tradespeople—and there was no thought of democracy as we understand it today. Not individual; men still inherited their father's rank and often business. Benjamin Franklin, as late as his day, had a hard time evading being a maker of candles, as was his father. Servants were "redemptioners," in a state during their service period almost of slavery. Apprenticed servants were sold from ships in Boston. When they escaped they were advertised for, and fully punished when they were recovered. They were whipped on offense, sent to houses of correction for rebellious acts, and were neither beter off nor worse than the negro slaves of the South. American society, then, until the Revolution, was still organized under laws which gave the individual only a certain  amount of latitude. Not only law but public opinion was strongly restrictive, and control, which lay across the sea, was in the hands of an anciently organized society, feudal in its foundations, believing almost savagely in caste, and as fearful of the word "freedom" as the colonists were hopeful. But freedom is one of the fundamental cries of the human heart. To call no man master—it is behind that desperate upward thrust of the submerged to-day. And the colonies demanded freedom. © DEMOCRACY AND THE HOME The boy's ancestors fought for it when the time came, and some of them died for it. But again it was not for freedom of the individual. They did not fight that all men should be free and equal; they fought for the right to manage their own affairs. And the vast leveling which followed the Revolutionary War both startled and angered them. They saw the old barriers of caste swept away, and a new thing called a democracy taking their place and calling itself freedom. They were afraid of it, for they knew that a nation may be free, but that no man is ever free. They bowed to democracy, but they accepted it only politically and economically. It never entered their homes. All men had a right to be born politically free, but not otherwise. All men were not equal, and never would be. They kept an iron hand of repression on their sons and daughters. They replaced the old religious laws with a code, were affectionate but stern autocrats in the family life, and when the vicious theory of individual liberty raised its head they rapped it, like the tithing man of old, with the knob of their displeasure. Even the next war for freedom, to liberate the negro slaves, did not alter the conviction that, other restraints having' been set aside, it was still necessary for a man to rule his own home and his family for their protection. Certain things were necessary to protect the rising generation against itself: One was the faithful observance of religion; one was the decorum of social life. The boy's grandfather, for instance, spent almost all of Sunday in his church, and took his family with him. At home the piano was shut, and only religious reading! Was allowed. His daughters were strictly chaperoned, and the heavy hand of parental displeasure—followed any violation of the family code. Not only parental displeasure—the churches were preaching, almost without exception, a God of fear and punishment who lay in wait for the unwary. REACTION FROM AUSTERITIES But outside the home were at work already certain influences which tended to undermine it. Gradually a great and very  rich nation was developing itself. Standards of comfort were rising. And the land of plenty was luring: other men of other ideals from across the sea. 'They came, bringing the greater tolerance of a sophisticated Old World; bringing the starved desire for luxury that Europe had never gratified; bringing, many of them, commercial ambition and greed. The closed shop of religious belief became an open shop in earnest now, and the old traditions began to totter against the onslaughts of these new seekers for freedom. They brought with them the memories of long suppressions, and they sought, many of them, not so much religious or political freedom as the freedom to achieve and to acquire, There came, too, at the same time, other inevitable movements which threatened the old regime. The development from the austere days, when the center of social life was the meetinghouse. To the complicated luxury of a prosperous nation began to 'draw people away from the churches. 'There came, too, a revulsion of feeling and of instinct against a faith which rules by fear alone. Old Testament theology. Was superseded by a more tolerant and living religion, and that portion of the people » who had been held only through fear definitely abandoned the churches. Probably no single movement in America has been so significant as that movement away from the churches of those no longer held there through fear, and reacting from the austerities of their early lives. And the replacement of that loss by a religion" of love and gentleness will take time. Not so quickly is one belief substituted for another. What is pertinent here is that the boy' s father reacted, like many others, away from the faith of his fathers. And he did not replace it. Almost three centuries of belief were behind him, but he shed it like an outgrown garment -and sat spiritually naked among his fellows. Perhaps even then the catastrophe could have been averted but for the boy's mother. All through the world the busy male leaves his idealism and to a certain extent his spirituality in the care of his woman. It is his cherished belief that women will preserve them for him. He likes to feel that if he lets go, his women at least are holding fast. But the boy's mother was having her reaction too. Up to that time the women 'of the family had lived a comparatively simple social life. His great-vreat-grandmother was one of the famous spinners of her day, and had been the proud possessor of an entire paper of pins, an extraordinary luxury, with which she reared and married a large family of girls. And she reared her daughters herself, exercising strict supervision over them, watching them in church for frivolity, teaching them her own arts of  baking, spinning, quilting and sewing. Social life, once centered about the meetinghouse, now divided itself between the home and the church. Idleness was not tolerated, nor extravagance. Owing to lack of communications and of the wide appeal of presentday advertising, enough rather than too much was still the watchword. Each community set its standards by its means, and lived by them. There were fashions, of course—pompadours measured to be exactly the same distance above the forehead as the chin was below it; wigs, with even the children perspiring and itching under them. And strange customs, too, brought about by the exigencies of life. Such a one, for instance, was "bundling," where, in certain walks of life, against the cold winter night and the dying of the kitchen fire, a betrothed couple were often "bundled" together in the trundle bed in the kitchen. It was not considered an immoral custom, and was tolerated, if not encouraged, in some country districts. But family control over the voung women was still absolute, and both industry and thrift were a part of their training. Marriage was an actual partnership, for it had an economic foundation. Even the boy's grandmother, sitting in her great chatr in the twilight of her life, her wide skirts sweeping about her, managed her big house and kept a watchful eye on it. But his mother had a different theory of life. The same immigration which was enabling her husband to employ abundant labor and build a fortune, supplied her home with servants. Things also were being made for her better and cheaper than she could make them herself. She found herself left without an occupation and, as is the way of those with little to do, did nothing. The boy was raised by a trained nurse and later by a governess. He ate different food at different hours, and was put to bed before his father got home to dinner. More or less, his parents became magnificent but remote figures whose function was to supply his wants. They were always busy. They came rushing in, changed their clothes and went out again, and very early he got the idea that home was a place to get away from. The curious thing was that, although his grandparents had been inseparable, the boy early perceived that his father and mother were together as littke as possible. Had he lived long enough he would have realized that he was seeing the working out of a profound truth; that is, that marriage requires mutual interest as well as mutual affection, and that when it ceases to be a business partnership an undue strain is put on the personal relation. The result was that he had no real family life; and the lift  of money anxiety had removed the necessity for any initiative. After three centuries of effort had come financial freedom. It may be summarized like this: His grandfather had worked; his father both worked and played; the boy played. On his mother's side, for luxury always reaches the women of a family first, his grandmother had both worked and idled, his mother idled, and the boy loafed. Although the second generation of forced idleness for women brought its keen reaction, and we see women revolting against this stultifying of their lives and their souls, the boy was not conscious of it. Surrounding him on every side were the exotic products of those centuries of labor, victims like himself, boys and girls who had iost their proper heritage of a home, and through no fault of their own. True, home was there. It had meals and shelter. But the home spirit was gone. There was no sense of mutual responsibility. And had he been able to survey the country as a whole he would have seen that not only in homes like his own but in every grade of life the same thing was happening. _ Now, this boy's brief life history is important because, although he represents. A comparatively small class, the social morale of a nation, all morale, is from the top down. And also because it is the wealthy: who are the first object of attack by commercial exploiters. During all this brief adolescence the boy was thus exploited. — What we do not seem to recognize is that, having largely let go ourselves, we are permitting our young to be exploited for the commercial benefit of divers acquisitive individuals here and abroad, who can do with us what they cannot do in Europe, rely on our indulgence—or indifference—to our children to lead them to folly and extravagance, that their exploiters may gain. EASY PROSPERITY AND SOFT FIBER These panderers always find particularly lucrative the exploitation of sex. And youth reacts quickly to their appeal. It is full of the joy of life, it is slavishly imitative, and if it is not erotic it is and should normally be sex-inquisitive. So we find that, to make a Roman holiday and to line its own pockets, maturity is exploiting our young, tempting them to extravagance of fashion and of spending, luring and cajoling them to absurd and sensual dress, to strange dancing and lurid music, to all the things we deplore and marvel at. We find our youth sold in the open market to fatten the purses of those mature and calculating individuals who pay an erotic band that it may dance. There is a certain softening of fiber that comes with an easy prosperity. Ideals become less and less important, and things  more so. To the European our passion for things is not understandable. 'The French peasant has two sheets for each bed, which are taken off, washed and put back again. Buying for the sake of buying is unknown in Europe, as is our easy credit. The boy could buy whatever he wanted and "charge it." It is perhaps this easy credit of ours which has developed us into a nation of lavish spenders. The charge account has more victims to its credit than any disease. A comparatively recent development, it falls into line with our over-paying, over-dressing and under-responsibility, with our general relaxation of vigilance. The pernicious theory that the earner of the family will "pay the bills somehow" has sent many a man to a premature grave. Up to the year 1900 America still retained some of its early simplicity. In most American cities the carriage with two men on the box was uncommon. Men in livery served the few. The average home was content with one bathroom and one maid of all work, if any. Dress and amusement were subordinated to where they belonged. The telephone was not so generally installed as now, when it is as essential as the kitchen stove, and food was bought personally, under the eye of the housewife. Credit was less extensive, and thrift was still the rule. But even then it had become a modified, thrift., Even before the war we were thirteenth among the nations of the world in savings. Our passion for things had become stronger than our desire for security. In the main, both thrift and extravagance are a matter of the women of a country. They are the spenders. The average man will go a long way for comfort, but no distance at all for luxury especially for luxury which he must pay for by his own money. That does not mean that there are not extravagant men, but their extravagance is seldom self-indulgence. It is quite often— we are being frank—to impress himself, his importance, his success, on women. It is the pride of the male, the lion's ruff, the cock pheasant's brilliant plumage. IS IT YOUR CAR AND YOUR BOY OR GIRL? Even then, his extravagance is usually a carefully reasoned one. He will spend all he has, but not more than he has. There is no one, he knows, to whom he may turn over the monthly bills with a divine confidence that they will be paid somehow. It ls true that lt is a man's instinct to give his children more than he has had himself—the college education; the impressive home; the pleasures; the freedom from worry. And there is, too, the element of pride. Other men give their families these things. Not only to stand well with their families, but with the world, they surrender to the indicated course. But, generally speaking,  the impulse to increased expenditure comes from within the four walls of a man's home. And he "supposes he will manage somehow." But the real burden of our present day lavish extravagance falls on a certain type of woman, Luxury appeals to the beautyloving, beauty-craving feminine mind. The earlier women ancestors of the boy knew comfort, but they did not know luxury, and hence could not desire it. His grandmother thought she had it when she covered her chairs with horsehair and wore plain, handsewed, durable undergarments of fine linen. His mother wore perishable chiffon, hung the walls of her boudoir with rose brocade, and had two men on the box of her smart motor. Thus it mav be said that men first let go the faith and ideals of their forefathers, and that women are leading the present era of extravagance. Just what chance we are leaving to the new generation it would be hard to say. For extravagance is not hanging one's walls with brocade; it is buying anything we cannot properly afford. If we hand down neither faith, tradition, nor thrift. We leave little indeed behind us. The boy had none of them. In his early days he had had a small allowance, but his ideas of money suffered a vital change when the horses were sold and the automobiles took their place. All over America we find our young people innocently thinking in automobile terms ot monev. "Only four thousand dollars. Dad," said the boy. "It's dirt cheap.": New tires at fifty to a hundred dollars, garage bills of large amount, and a dollar once so important, becomes a trifle not to be considered. The girl of the family wanders in, pulling off her driving gloves, and mentions casually that she has had a "blow-ont'. And needs a couple of "spares." We have established a new unit of expenditure, and with it have come not only new standards of living but new habits of thought. We still quarrel, fram habit, with a rise in the price of milk, but we submit resignedly to. The prices for gasoline, tires and oil. The automobile has radically changed much more than our ideas of money value. It has profoundly altered our social life. With it went the chaperon, the last check we kept on our youngsters, and with the departure of the chaperon came an opportunity never hoped for by the individuals who profit by exploiting our youth; came the road house, the jazz band, the hotel and restaurant dances; came the unrestricted association of the sexes, with less damage. However, than might have been expected; came the new fashions, not so bad in themselves, but amounting to a passion for fashion which is reckless and wrong; came all the panderers—to preach their insidious doctrine that life is brief  and youth is fleeting, and to swell their bank accounts at the cost of the family savings. The war had little or nothing to do with it. The war provided a spiritual hour for the nation, from which it came out either better or indifferent, but certainly not the worse. There were let loose inevitahle forces—of prosperity, of a reckless optimism, of the liberation of women from old-time tasks, of the abandonment of faiths and ideals, with no new ones to substitute as yet; inventions and machinery, easy credit, and a growing and dangerous doctrine that work is an unpleasant necessity and not a privilege—inevitable forces, claiming their new victims in the name of freedom. But this freedom was really irresponsibility and the search for pleasure, and its victims were the young. Against it, those of us who see the danger are framing restrictive laws. The prohibition amendment was a recognition of a situation, but without an understanding of its causes. The campaign to get us back into the churches is another recognition, and a more understanding one. For reform never comes from without, from laws and ambitions. It must come from within, the result of a straightforward facing of our own weaknesses and failures, and a clear knowledge of where they are leading us. The boy's father and mother looked out, not in. They saw only what they gave him—money and things, a chance to be happy in his own way as long as he let them be happy in theirs. They never saw what they had taken away from him—the four inclosing walls of home, their own comradship, the faith of his fathers and the tradition of labor. When he failed at college and came home, rather shame-faced, he offered to drive his mother's car. It was all he knew how to do. But she had a position to keep up, with her chauffeur, and she laughed at him. THE WORK OF PANDERERS He went out then and went about his business, which he found was to amuse himself. He spent a little time each day in his father's office, but the business was built by that time, and he knew he was not necessary to it. So the panderers got in their work, set him dancing to lascivious music, fired him with erotic fashions innocently enough worn, but appealing to the lusty man-urge that was in him, and when they had got in their work and scandal threatened, his parents shipped him to England. His mother was shocked and affronted. It never occurred to her that pride in refusing an honest offer had had anything to do with it. But it had, and it will also bear looking into as one of the contributing causes toward a dangerous phase of our national life. In a word, that certain of our difficulties come from  competitive showing rather than competitive living. Just to live ' requires very little. Even to live comfortably is not an expensive matter. What are costing us more than we can afford are the things we must have because others have them or do because others do them. It is this competitive showing that sends our earners into premature death or into that pitiable dependence of the old on the young which makes age that tragedy it so often is. It is this competitive showing which makes us the easy prey of the panderers, and which gives the younger generation its ideas of money, dress, pleasuie and what constitutes success. It is—although we may hate to acknowledge lt—the arrogant display of a newly rich nation, only conscious as yet of its wealth and ignorant still that wealth has its responsibilities, greater even than poverty. Europe does with fewer things that we demand and saves more in ratio to its income. To the Englishman or the Continental, capital is sacred. He bends his energies to accumulating capital, and that done, he respects it. But he accumulates it. Our attitude is different. We live on our incomes, not within them. Having built up for ourselves a materialistic world, we are more than ever before dependent on money prosperity. We may abandon the churches. We may relax the hold of the home. But money we must have. Z The doctrine of the easier life has affected the earners—not the laborers onlv: all the earners. They see the world going by, luxurious as it means will afford, awheel and afoot, and they see themselves cheated of this new obsession of luxury and pleasureseeking. So they follow suit—would work less and play more; be free—the fine old word again in its present degradation. But with that one further step toward freedom our entire national fabric crumbles to dust. For it is built on effort, and when that effort ceases we are destroyed. We must have money, and money must be earned. Europe is working ten hours a day, while we are talking about six and even less. We may keep out its cheaper labor by immigration laws, but we cannot keep out its cheaper made merchandise. We live by barter. Germany, with a ten-hour day has already, in spite of the war, accumulated masses of material to sell to us. We may keep her out with high duties, but she will undersell us in the world markets, and we shall have a competition we cannot meet. LESS THRIFT AND MORE DIVORCE Reduced to terms of the home, then, we find tow processes in  operation: On the part of the spenders of the family, more extravagant habits, more requirements which cost money; on the part of the earners, less production and, in the end, less money earned. And asa result of both, less thrift and more divorce. Contrary to the general belief, it is doubtful if our ioral standards have greatly altered in the last few decades. To offset the freer relationship between the sexes, we have fuller knowledge and with it, fear. The great increase in the number of our divorces, then, is probably economic. It is due partly to the ability of women, unhappily married, now to support themselves. Also to the increased strain put on the personal relationship when the woman has ceased to 'be a co-laborer in the partnership in the home. But very largely it is in direct ratio to the decrease of thrift among us. Only one in ten among us has a bank account. And apparently in direct ration to that lack of thrift, we have twice as many divorces as Switzerland, three times as many as France, five times as many as Germany and many times England and Canada's percentage. ) One thing the boy was spared: He never knew that while he was abroad his father and mother had separated.. It was as inevitable as all the rest. The man began to feel that he was paying too high a price for a trifle of companionship and a woman at the foot of his table. Like the rest of the earners, too, he wanted to stop and play: so he chosea shady by-path of life to play in and eventually obtained—observe the word—his freedom. And meantime the boy died. They met over the boy's casket. He was free, and she was free. They could go where they wanted, do as they would. After all, only one was there who had actually achieved freedom, and that was the dead boy. The fundamental good sense of our people may save us yet— must save us if we are to advance and not go back. It will do us no good to stand by the grave of our dead hopes and weep. Nothing that has been acquired by effort can be held except by effort; not a home; not love; not independence; not prosperity. Pleasure is bought at a price, and someone "pays for it somehow." Happiness comes only by those who earn it, but the searchers go about the streets, hoping to find it lying at their feet. Some men are born inferior, some achieve inferiority, and some -have cigars named after them.