BEWARE OF ACCUSING CHILDREN.

	Under this heading perhaps a few words
may not be deemed inappropriate. Years
and experience have given the writer op-
portunity to observe the influence prevail-
ing over children, that more or less help to
mold their characters for the future; influ-
ence very much to be deprecated and most
heartily to be condemned; as often the re-
sults are lamentable.
	Living in a fast age, comparatively, very
little consideration, is given to these things,
with all the boasted knowledge of modern
times. Children are expected to know
more, which, in fact, they do at a very ten-
der age, than in former days; children were
children then, until really old enough to
have some strength of mind and under-
standing; parents were more cautious, in
respect to conversation in their hearing,
which now seems almost totally done away
with. Careless habits have gained ground;
for as the world stands, no great or good
things are advanced without more or less
evil to bring up the rear; which often proves
almost an overbalance of power, counter-
acting, in a great degree, the good attained.
Thus it is only by the most strenuous efforts
and the exercise of exceeding watchfulness
and care, on the part of those engaged in
God's vineyard—to uproot and drive forth
the little evils, which like the moth, silent-
ly, ceaslessly and most certainly work sor-
row and woe—that anything can be done.
Among the minor evils, one that carries
great sway with the generality of people
and families, is that of hasty accusation:
Children are often corrected in anger and
haste; more often than in calmness, or with
due deliberation. Because a certain piece
of mischief is done, some child did it;
and perhaps the child, perfectly innocent of
the mischief said to be his or her doing, is
punished severely for it no mattter how
much he or she may say and protest


against it. Such proceedings have a very
bad influence, causing children to doubt their
parents' goodness; they think, "neither
father nor mother knows as much as I
thought they did;" and therefore they do
not care much for what father or mother
may say. They know something themselves,
and prefer, as a natural consequence, their
own way to that of parents or guardians.
It also begets a habit of lying; for when
children see that, do what they will, they
are doubted and disbelieved; they become
careless as to what they say, and are led, by
and bye, into wickedness.
	Beware of falsely accusing little children.
The tender minds and opening understand-
ings feebly grasp, little by little, the good
placed before them; while evil reigns pre-
dominant, ever present in word and action,
indoors and outdoors. Especially where
children are allowed to ramble about in the
streets, too much care can not be exercised
in respect to the company they keep; for vul-
garity seems almost to be the rule, and good
decent language the exception commonly,
which is an evil and a very great one; one
which among little children, brings ill
thoughts and wrong topics of conversation
where there should be only innocence and
sweetness.
	What children need to know can be taught
them gradually, as they are growing in years;
and they can be trained to right thoughts
and feelings by placing matters before them
in a right light; giving a higher tone and
most noble and grand ideas of what life
should be; lifting them up from the low,
grovelling and debasing tendencies of hu-
man nature.
	There exists among children such a vari-
ety of temperaments to be dealt with, that
it requires the utmost wisdom and tact,
gentleness and firmness combined, to in-
sure success in implanting the right instead
of the wrong. But habits and impressions
obtained through childhoods years, often
remain through life and are never forgotten;
giving a coloring to mind and manner which
no future circumstances or training can
change.					A. B. C.
	BEAVER, Sept. 3rd, 1874.


