AN ADDRESS.
To the Richmond Retrenchment Association.
	How natural to human beings, are thoughts
of self, how prone we are to care for our own
comforts heedless of the welfare of others.
If fortune smiles on us we forget that there
are those who are less fortunate, or who may
need our assistance. Our own enjoyment is
all the world to us; and yet there is not hap-
piness in all this self provision. Much calls
for more, and contentment does not linger
in the heart of averice. But courted or al-
lowed to remain, it takes possession of us
body and soul. And thus we go on grasping
for all within reach, often, perhaps, for that
which would do us no good, determined to
possess it even if it would be an incumbrance
to us, rather than see it enjoyed by another.
If a choice bit of lace or velvet or a nice
dress pattern is brought to some one of a
family, how apt is the young lady to say,
"give it to me. I need it and it suits me
better than my sister." And should
the coveted prize be gained, the thought
never enters her mind that doubtless some
of the rest wished for it quite as much as
herself only they were too good and self-
denying to take it from her. How admira-
ble seems generosity when we notice it in
our friends, especially if a favor has been
done us. But do we ever think to be gen-
erous in return?
	It is an easy matter to persuade ourselves
that people do very little for our benefit,
and to indulge the thought "Why should
we trouble to accomodate them?" Some-
times we pity some one and tell how much


they are in need of help, and if it were not
for some trifling reason we could render as-
sistance, trying to excuse ourselves for neg-
lect of duty. Thus our actitons are a great
deal like the letter p; first in pity but last in
help.
	We are all children of the same wise Pa-
rent, and is it not the duty of every individ-
ual to assist others? It is the only  true way
to gain friends or happiness.
	We are not, or should not be, living
merely to gratify our selfish whims, but to
spread peace and love wherever we are. We
should never forget to do this, and especially
to comfort the sick and weary, that they, at
least, may testify that God has not created
us in vain. If we banish all selfish and evil
thoughts from heart and mind, and seek to
promote the prosperity of our brothers and
sisters on earth, God will reward us in hea-
ven. 				MARY STUART.
	RICHMOND, Sept. 27th 1874.


