EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A KINDERGARTEN is about opening in
Kalamazoo, Michigan. With all the little
“treasures” she owns, our territory might
open several such schools with profit.
	AN EASTERN paper observes that six
ladies had the courage to go up in a balloon,
with Prof. Wise at Philadelphia.  Most
women consider themselves safe when in
the company of a “Wise” man.
	MICHIGAN PAPERS speak in high terms
of praise of the abilities of Miss Marion L.
Guild of the Grand Rapids “Post.” Thus
it is notwithstanding the loud cries that are
made about woman’s stepping out of her
sphere when she attempts to fill any posi-
tion of more importance than that of dish-
washer or chambermaid, she still wins her
way throughout the country, seeking and
gaining favor when she learns to respect
herself; and where she is best known her
efforts and abilities are best appreciated.
	WE CLIP from an exchange the following
in regard to the new postal law that goes
into effect on and after the 1st of next Jan-
uary.  Time will prove whether it is any
improvement on the old system.
	"The last Congress passed a bill making
it incumbent upon the publishers of news-
papers to prepay postage on papers sent to 
subscribers, which, together with the post-
age upon exchanges, amounts to an effectual
embargo upon the press, and will prove a
serious obstacle to the general diffusion of
knowledge by the one most useful, and
economical means—the public journals of the
country. The tendency of the age seems
to be in the direction of enlightenment—
free schools, high education by State insti-
tutions, a free Press, etc., and yet the rep-
resentatives of the people are so stupid or
conservative as to take a retrograde step in
the direction of the best and most efficient
educator of the masses—i. e., the nation's
newspapers. The recent action of a British
colony in an opposite direction gives room
for unfavorable comment, which is, and
will be taken advantage of.  We have, for
years, claimed to lead the van, in all pro-
gressive measures, and would scout the idea
of yielding to any other nation superior lib-
erality; but a change must come soon, or we
will find ourselves distanced greatly. Speak-
ing of our former boasts and present facts,
an exchange aptly remarks:	‘But it is
very singular that while the United States
has been passing a law which imposes an
additional tax of two and a half million of
dollars on the newspaper circulation of the
country, the Legislature of the largest and
most important of Australian colonies has
adopted a regulation allowing newspapers to
go, without any charge at all, through the
mails. It seems a little strange to the for-
eigner up a tree, that this great, enlighten-
ed, progressive nation should levy a tax of
two million dollars upon the means of dis-
seminating intelligence while the Islands of
the Pacific are removing all restraints here-
tofore placed upon the press. There is
something wrong somewhere—where is
it?


﻿PATERNAL acres—The old man’s corns.


