BEHAVIOR OF FEMALES IN COMPANY.
	One of the chief beauties in a female
character is modest reserve; that retiring
delicacy which avoids the public eye, and
is even disconcerted at the gaze of admira
tion. When a girl ceases to blush she has
lost the most powerful charm of beauty.
The extreme sensibility which it indicates
may be considered as a weakness and en-
cumbrance to the other sex, but in females
is peculiarly engaging, as blushing is so far
from being necessarily attendant with guilt,
that it is the usual company of innocence.
That modesty which is so essential to the
sex, will naturally dispose them to be rather
silent in company, especially in a large one;
people of sense and discernment will never
take such silence for dulness. A person
may take a share in conversation without
uttering a sylable—the expression of the 
countenance shows it, and this never es-
capes an observing eye. Converse with
men with that dignified modesty which
may prevent the approach of the most dig-
nified familiarity, and consequently pre-
vent them feeling themselves your superi-
ors. 
	Wit is the most dangerous talent which
a female can possess. It must be guarded
with great discretion and good nature,
otherwise it will create many enemies. Wit
is perfectly consistent with softness and
delicacy, yet they are seldom found united.
Wit is so flattering to vanity, that they who 
possess it become intoxicated and lose all
self-command. Humor is a different qual-
ity. It will make your company much so-
licited—but be cautious how you indulge it; 
it is often a great enemy to delicacy, and a
still greater one to dignity of character.
It may sometimes gain you applause, but it 
will never procure respect. 
	Beware of detractions especially where 
your own sex is concerned. You are gener-
ally charged with being particularly addict-
ed to this vice, perhaps unjustly; men are 
fully as guilty of it when their interest in-
terferes. But as your interests frequently 
clash, and as your feelings are quicker, your 
temptations to it are more frequent. For 
this reason be particularly careful of the
reputation of your own sex. 
	Consider every species of indelicacy in
conversation as shameful in itself, and
highly disgusting to modest men, as well as
to you. The dissoluteness of some men's
education may allow them to be diverted
with a kind of wit, which yet they have
delicacy enough to be shocked at when it
comes from the mouth of a female. Chris-
tian purity is of that delicate nature that is 
cannot even hear certain things without
contamination. It is always in the power 
of woman to avoid these; no man but a brute
or a fool will insult a woman with conversa-
tion which he sees gives her pain; nor will
he dare to do it if she resent the injury 
with becoming spirit. There is a dignity 
in conscious virtue which is able to awe the 
most shameless and abandoned men. You
will be reproached, perhaps, with an affec-
tation of delicacy; but, at any rate, it is 
better to run the risk of being thought
ridiculous than disgusting. The men will 
complain of your reserve; they will assure
you that a frank behavior would make you
more amiable; but they are not sincere when 
they tell you so. It might on some occa-
sions render you more agreeable as com-
panions; but it would make you less amiable 
as women, an important distinction of which 
many of the sex are not aware. 
	There is a certain gentleness of spirit and
manners extremely engaging in young wo-
men; not that discriminate attention, that 
unmeaning simper which smiles on all alike.
This arises from an affection of softness or 
perfect insipidity. We wish them to pos-
sess the most perfect simplicity of heart 
and manners. They may possess dignity 
without pride; affability without meaness;
and simple elegance without affectation.
Milton had the same idea when he said of 
Eve: 
	"Grace was in all her steps, heaven in her eye,
	In every gesture dignity and love."


