HOW TO BECOME ACCOMPLISHED.
	Many people especially among the young, are
apt to spend more time and thought in seeking
to acqure pleasing habits, attractive manners
and graceful, engaging ways, than would be in
anywise necessary if they but understood the 
proper method for obtaining these accomplish-
ments.
	As it is so delightful to be beloved and res-
pected by friends and acquaintances and as
fine accomplishments add so much to native
lovliness, as "Love is the fulfilling of the Law"
and so much happiness depends upon it—per-
haps we might say, especially to woman- it is
highly important that every daughter of Zion,
and indeed, every lady—in the land should 
know how to secure this great boon to herself
in the best and easiest manner possible.


﻿To many of our lady friends then we would
say, spare much of your wasted time and re-
lieve your minds of many troublesome and use-
less ideas in relation to what should be consid-
ered "genteel," "etiquette;" etc., and turn 
your attention to the study of that which will
make you truly refined.
	It is but to gain possession of and then to cul-
tivate within the heart, the Spirit of God, to
become not only agreeable, and accomplished,
but also loveable in the eyes of all right think-
ing people. Under the influence and direction
of this divine guide no person will speak or act
falsely or in any manner ungraceful or unbe-
coming.
	God does not err. His omnipotence is appar-
ent in small as well as in great matters. Nor
will His Gospel or any principle contained
therein lead any one to commit an unladylike 
or ungentlemanly action, or to  utter an uncouth
word or sentence. 
	David, the ancient poet, has beautifully illus-
trated these truths in his nineteenth psalm,
where he says:
	"The law of the Lord is perfect converting
the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure,
making wise the simple."
	To speak and act with wisdom is the only
way to be certain of speaking and acting with
propriety; and all other accomplishments
however desirable they may be in themselves,
are of little worth compared with the e. 
	It will, therefore, pay all parents who are de-
sirous that their children should be well edu
cated, to have them taught first of all the per-
fect law of the Lord, that they may obtain the
sure testimony of his spirit, which will make
them wise.


