SEASONABLE HINTS.

	The weather here has been so continuously
beautiful this season, that the trees still retain
their thick foliage; and were it not that the
brown, orange and golden tints of autumn are
becoming mingled with the green hues of na-
ture's summer dress, we might imagine our-
selves in a land,
	"Of cloudless skies and sunny climes."
	Yet we all are certain that the storms of win-
ter will soon come with the discomforts of wet,
cloudy weather, mud and slush on the roads,
cold winds and biting frosts, and that, too, be-
fore many are prepared to meet them. If not
already attended to, now is the time to be mind-
ful of, and prepare for these changes in the wea-
ther, that will probably be all the more sud-
den because of the lateness of the season.
	As far as possible, a supply of good, warm
clothing, including over-shoes, or shoes or
boots thick enough to keep the feet warm and
dry; also suitable bed clothing should be ready
for use.
	Mothers should remember that their little
ones are not only ignorant of what is necessary
for their good, but also have the thoughtless-
ness of happy childhood; and when heated
with playing, are liable to expose themselves
so as to take cold, unless watched over. A lady
friend, whose motherly instincts, experience
and intelligence we regard highly, has, in con-
versation, called our attention to the danger in
which infants are often placed, at this time of
the year, when the warm, mild summer wea-
ther is giving way to the damp, cold and drafty
atmosphere of winter. Those who have become
inured to this change in the seasons, and even
mothers, often do not realize how sensitive are
these tender infants, who, in their little lives
have, probably, never felt other than the warm
temperature of the sunny seasons of the year.
And in many cases, their health is endangered
by sufficient care not being taken to protect
them from too sudden or too great changes of
temperature while indoors as well as out. Es-
pecial care should be taken when a babe is tak-
en from the cradel or bed where it may have
lain until quite warm, perhaps covered with
perspiration and thus rendered particularly
susceptible to even a slight degree of cold.
Sufficient care in these matters is not always
exercised, not from lack of feeling but for lack
of knowledge or thoughtfulness; and these lit-
tle ones suffer through being unable to bear the
extremes to which they are exposed.
	As the season changes care should also be 
taken in the diet of both old and young, especi-
ally, we think, with regard to those fruits which,
though out of season, can still be obtained
fresh. However agreeable they were in the
summer time it will be best for health's sake,
to partake of such only when cooked.


