A MODEL FARMER'S WIFE.
	Matilda Fletcher thus describes a far-
mer's wife who is not only beautiful and
wise but possesses several cardinal virtues
in addition.
	"The most beautiful woman I have ever
known was a farmer's wife who attended to
the household duties of a family of four, and
also assisted in gardening and the light farm
work; and yet I never saw her hands rough
and red, and never saw a freckle on her
nose. Impossible! you say; how did she
manage? I never asked her, but she had
some envious neighbors who went slouch-
ing around with red, scaly hands, sunburnt
faces, and hair matted with dust and oil,
who let me into the dreadful secret. They
informed me with many an ominous shake
of the head that she was just the proudest
minx that ever lived; that she actually
wore india-rubber gloves when she used the
broom and scrubbing-brush, and always
when she worked out-doors; that she also
had a bonnet made of oil silk, completely
covering the head, face and neck, leaving
only apertures for seeing and breathing,
thus securing perfect freedom from sun,
wind and dust. Did you ever hear of such
depravity? She also fastened her dishcloth
to a stick so that she need not put her hands
in hot water. For the same reason she ac-
complished her laundry work with a ma-
chine and wringer. And then to see her in
the afternoon tricked out in a fashionable
white dress, with a bright colored ribbon at
her throat and a rose in her hair, entertain-
ing in the parlor, as though she was the
greatest lady in the land, was more than
their patience could indure. And her hus-
band! He had such a satisfied expression
that it was a perfect aggravation to or-
dinary people to look at him. He deserved
to be happy, because he encouraged and
helped her to cultivate beauty in her-
self, her family and her home; and I don’t
know but her success principally belonged
to him, because he brought all the new in-
ventions that could lighten her labors and
all the delicate and pretty things she needed
to adorn her home, and when she was sick,
he wouldn't let her touch work until she was
well and strong. Strange as it may seem,
at such times he actually devoted himself
to her with as much care and tenderness as
he would if she had been the most valuable
horse on the farm.


﻿Muscle in Music.—Of all the discoveries
for which the world is indebted to German
professors, one just published by Professor
Schmidt may claim to be the most singular.
Hearing Herr Rubinstien play at a concert,
he took it into his head to count the notes
which that famous pianist had played by
heart, and found them to amount to 63,990,
fully justifying, therefore, an assertion pre-
viously made by the physiologist Haring,
that a pianist's calling lays about the heaviest
tax of any upon the memory. Herr Schmidt
was, however not satisfied with this enu-
meration. Applying Austrian neukreutzers
as a dynamometer, he tested the pressure


requisite to strike a key on Herr Rubin-
stein's piano, and found it to be equivalent
to 24 neukreutzers, which is 2 1-5 ounces.
The force exerted by the pianist in playing
the 62,990 note piece he therefrom calcula-
ted to amount to 944 cwt. Herr Schmidt
then intruded into Herr von Bulow's room
and tried his piano, which was a harder
touch, but which no doubt Herr Rubinstein
could have played on perfectly well. Here
the pressure would have amounted to 118
1-0 cwt. This discovery may be of use to
pianists who are unaware of how great an
effort of muscle they go through in playing
a piece, but surely it requires a German
professor to draw such a lesson from a con-
cert.


