			ILLUSTRATED.

	How many frugal housekeepers, mothers of
families or women in almost any department
of labor can be found in our communities, who
do not work more hours of the time allotted
them for existence here, and in fact, accom-
plish more than is consistent with the laws of
nature and health? Where is there one who
does not allow work of some kind to infringe
more or less upon the proper seasons for rest?
Who does not take from the necessary eight
or nine hours sleep, regularly, one, two, or
three hours for the finishing up of some piece
of work, which must be done in order to give
place for something else? We may say they
nearly all do it; and so they are nearly all
wearing themselves out, some ten, others twen-
ty and still others fifty per cent.faster than they
should do.  Even while bearing children they
do not, cannot desist. Therefore it cannot be
expected that they will bear children with suf-
ficient hardihood and energy to enable them
ever to accomplish great and noble things, even
if they live to become men and women.
	But how are these great evils to be avoided?
Cooking and cleaning, laundry work, making
and mending must all be done in every house-
hold; and who but mother is able to do it all, o
at least superintend each department and see
that things are kept moving? Often, too, it
occurrs, right in the midst of the greatest hur-
ry and worry about the work that the nursing
baby falls sick. What else could reasonably be
expected, when day after day the nourishment
it receives from its mother is heated to a sick-
ening degree by anxiety and over work? This
only makes the burden of the weary[-] worn out
woman ten times heavier. She knows that for
the sake of her precious babe if for nothing else,
she should stop working so hard; but what is
she to do? She finds no stopping place, even
though she must work with a sick and fretful
child in her arms or on her lap. Why at such
times does not every woman hire some one to
help her with her work? Very many do not
because they have no means of paying hired
help. How is it possible for a woman thus sit-
uated to do anything by which to earn money
to hire help with? and does it not require every
cent earned by the husband and father to feed
and clothe the family? Look at a community
thus situated, and find an effectual remedy for
all these troubles. We see but one. Men and
women struggle on year after  year in the man-
ner above described, and in nine cases out of
every ten their chances for less toil and fatigue,
and more easy and pleasant life grow no better.
But let a unity of interests be established, say
among the women, and by wise and careful
management, all the difficulties mentioned in
this article would at once be removed.
	Every one is better adapted for the following of
some pursuits than others not so congenial. As
with spiritual gifts, in which to one is given
the gift of prophecy, to another the gift of
tongues and to another the gift of healing, &c.,
so it is in regard to temporal matters. Some
women are natural dress-makers or tailoresses,
and prefer cutting out and making up clothing
to any other kind of labor. Others are experts
in the kitchen and delight in cooking and pre-
paring food. Suppose one of each class, living
in close proximity one to another, should agree
to unite their efforts to make their homes com-
fortable and orderly. And the one would say
"Bring your cloth to me and I will cut and
make the garments for your family. As you
understand the art of cooking so much better
than I do, if you will cook for us I shall have
plenty of time to do the sewing for both fami-
lies." Then the woman who liked the kitchen
work, might answer. "O! that will be such a
relief to me. I can as well cook for ten as for
five: but manage as I will, I am always in the
rear with my sewing." Both women would
thus find their burdens made lighter by half.
The seamstress would not have to charge her
mind with troublesome thoughts about prepara-
tions for dinner, that it might be served in the
proper time and way, thus distracting her at-
tention from the happy pursuit of those labors
for which she was best qualified. And the cook
would have no need to waste cloth and spoil
garments through being perplexed and worried
over two or three things which she considered
herself necessitated to perform at the same time.
	The same method of pursuit may be consid-
ered in connection with all other branches of
industry; and it will be found that immense
good would be the natural result.


