WOMEN WORKERS.
     From the "New North West."
	It is said that in the city of San Francisco
there are between three and four thousand
women and girls, ranging from mature age
to almost infantile years, who daily leave
their homes to perform some kind of work
in the various stores, shops, book-binderies,
printing offices, etc.
	What say the sticklers for "woman's
sphere" at this? These women and girls
are, through the long hours of the day away
from their homes. Are they out of their
sphere, that God and nature designed them
to fill?  If so, who is responsible for thus
thwarting the designs of the Creator and
subverting His laws.
	Of all the twaddle, familiarly called "ob-
jections," which we daily hear, perhaps
that which is so persistently urged relative
to home being the only legitimate province
for the exercise of woman's talent, is the
most exasperating to patience, because in
the plainest violation of common sense.
To declare that God designed all women to
remain at home, and then witness the stress
of circumstances that compels so many
thousands of them to work abroad to main-
tain a home, is equivalent to an accusation
that He is unable to carry out His designs,
in the formation of His creatures.  Such
sacrilege as this we leave for those who be-
lieve that were it not for the powerful aid
that masculine humanity renders to Divini-
ty, He would be totally unable to keep femi-
nine humanity within proper and legiti-
mate bounds.
	In regard to the manner in which the
woman workers of the world engage in the
duties that fall to their share, we quote
from the Golden Era (San Francisco) the
following: If there is one thing that testi-
fies in woman's favor more than another, it
is her willingness to work and gain an hon-
est livelihood. Poorely paid many of them,
tempted, often sorely pressed for food, they
pursue their duty. The life of a sewing
girl, as she toils from morning till night, for
a scanty salary, is not the most cheering,
still we see her following the desolate path,
turning neither to the gilded way of sin,
nor falling into the abyss of dissipation.
Is there not a lesson of patience, fortitude,
perseverance and endurance in the life of
the sewing girl that ought to shame men
from their ways of idleness and low dissi-
pation? Is not the "lord of creation"
sometimes shame-faced to see in the delicate
creature threading her way home from
work, a woman who has labored faithfully,
who has been tempted sorely. whose home
is comfortless, whose table is poorly supplied,
yet who has been faithful to her trust in all
things, while he has fallen from work, spent
his money in vicious ways, and made him-
self a disgrace to his species. How will it
average to compare the six or eight thou-
sand men who are seen in the saloons, low
places of amusement and loafing on the
street corners at nights with these three or
four thousand women? Which is following
the steepest path with the bravest purpose?
Which meets temptation and puts it aside
with the firmest hand? Where is the soft-
est nature and the most redeeming spirit?
And yet, though their service be harder,
these women are not paid like men.


“Lost child” was announced at Farming-
ton, Maine, and the town turned out to
search. After a time the frantic mother re-
membered that she had put him in his little
bed.


