WOMAN'S RECORD.
	THE Princess Bismarck, now past sixty,
superintends her farm work.
	THERE are at present fifty-nine ladies in
the different departments of Boston Uni-
versity. 
	MRS. Dumway has the honor of a repor-
ter's desk in both Houses of the Oregon
Legislature. 
	ROSA Bonheur is fifty-two years of age,
unmarried, and lives happily with a sister
and several brothers.
	MADAME Bazaine is represented to be of
low stature, very dark, and with regular
features. She is about 30 years old.
	A JAPANESE girl, who came to America
three years ago, recently bore off four of the
highest prizes at a Washington seminary.
	MRS. Stonewall Jackson resides at Char-
lotte, N. C. She is quite young—not above
30—of medium height, and very attrac-
tive. 
	MISS Vinnie Ream, of Washington, D.
C., possesses in clay, the only bust ever
made of Gov. Richard Yates, of Illinois,
and hopes to receive a commission to put it
in marble for $1000.
	MRS. Edmund Fletcher, who sued the
city of Chelsea, Mass., the other day, claim-
ing $10,000 damages for injuries received
through the bad condition of a street, re-
ceived $2500.
	MRS. Hayard, of Rhode Island, who is
known in the art world as a distinguished
sculptress, has a number of her works on
exhibition in Paris, where they are attract-
ing attention and favorable comment.
	THE Empress Augusta has called a meet-
ing of all the delegates from all the women's
associations of Germany to be held at Ber-
lin in October. The Queens of Wurtemburg
and Saxony, Grand Duchess of Baden and
Princess Alice of Hesse have promised to
attend.
	THE Baroness Mathilde Rothschild, sec-
ond daughter of the deceased, the wife of
Baron Wilhelm Von Rothschild, of Frank-
fort, renowned for his piety, benevolence
and Talmudical lore, is an ardent friend of
music, and a composer of considerable suc-
cess.
	MRS. Mary C. Wilber, widow of the first
President of the Cincinnati Female College,
was honored by receiving the degree of A.
M. from that Institution, at its recent Com-
mencement. Mrs. Wilber is one of the
Board of Instruction in the college. 
	MISS Gilbert, a blind lady, opened a
blind school in a Holborn cellar in London,
for which she paid eighteen pence per week.
She has now one thousand pupils, whom she
has taught to support themselves. They
maintain the Institution, which gives them
a home, an education and an occupation.
	CHANCELLOR Winchell, of the Syracuse
University, says he had "no knowledge of
the ruin of female constitutions by proper
collegiate work, while women are generally
more punctual in their scholastic duties
than young men. It is also a matter of
observation that there is no branch of learn-
ing so exacting upon memory, judgment,
or powers of abstraction, that there are not
women worthy to be competitors of the
strongest men."


CONTENTMENT makes one happy and rich
as the greatest king.


