FACTS AND FIGURES.

	The French Minister to England gets a
salary of $40,000 a year.
	Mrs Margaret Tallman, aged 114 years,
died in East Saginaw on the 26th August.
	 Over 7,000 perch of stone have all ready
been used in the foundation of the Centen-
nial buildings at Philadelphia.
	London had in the second week of Au-
gust 91,000 paupers, and the births in the
same city for the same week were 2,365,
while the deaths were only 1,368.
	There is an apple tree still living at York,
Me., which was brought from England in a
tub, 200 years ago, and another at Bristol,
200 years old, that still bears fruit.
	The Jews of Moldavia and the Ukraine
prepare from honey a sort of sugar, which
is solid and as white as snow. They expose
the honey to frost for about three weeks,
where neither sun or snow can reach it, and
in a vessel which is a bad conductor of ca-
loric, by which process the honey becomes
clear and hard, like sugar.
	The railway which is soon to be con-
structed from Naples to the top of Mount
Vesuvius will be about six miles long.
From the city to the base of the mountain,
fourteen miles, ordinary rails will be used,
but the remainder of the way the system of
traction by iron rails will be adopted. The
terminus, which will be within a few steps
of the crater, will be sunk twenty metres
under the lava. In case of eruption, the
current would thus be turned away from
the rail which throughout its whole course
will be raised above the level of the soil.
	Eighteen years ago, an educational con-
vention was held in Pennsylvania, and a
proposition favoring the co-education of the
sexes was, after a day's wrangling and amid
bitter opposition, overwhelmingly defeated.
Pennsylvania has just held another educa-
tional convention, and the same proposition
was carried without a dissenting voice. The
late convention also recommends the colleges
to open their doors to women without fur-
ther delay, as it holds the admission of
women to the college only a question of
time.—Santa Barbara Index.
	Within thirty miles of London, lavender
fields have become quite an extensive and
recognized industry, and there is annually
produced in England alone, sufficient oil
from the plant to manufacture thirty thou-
sand gallons of spirits of lavender, besides
a large quantity, the total of which is un-
known, to be used in the production of
other perfumes with more pretentious
names. The plant is at its best between
three years of age and seven. The harvest
time is the first week in August. The
flowers are then cut and taken to the dis-
tillery, followed by an innumerable army of
bees, which insect is especially fond of them.
Here the essential oils are pressed out, and
are ready to be mixed with the proper ingre-
dients to make lavender water.


Gentleman (who had stepped upon her
dress)—A thousand pardons, madam. Lady
—(pleasantly) It's of no consequence, sir.
What she said of him. "Awkward, stu-
pid fellow! My gathers are all torn out, and
I've got to go home." What he said, to
himself, "Confoundedly ridiculous fashion,
these trains in the street! Make a man look
like a fool, cutting up such capers with
them."


