RELIGIOUS INTOLERANCE.

*    *  The spirit of religious intolerance
is not altogether confined to Utah, for we
are pained to have to record an instance
which occured a few weeks ago, here in
Christian England, the circumstances of
which we take from a letter written by the
mother:—A child of parents who had em-
braced the Gospel of Christ as believed in
and practiced by the Latter-day Saints re-
siding near Warwickshire, was taken ill
one morning, and on the next morning was
seized with convulsions and died before
medical aid could be called in, in conse-
quence of which the doctor refused to give
a certificate of its death, but after explana-
tion did give one, upon which, application
was made to the clergyman for his certifi-
cate; he refused to give one or have the
child buried within the consecrated ground,
his only excuse as made known, was the
child had not been christened; under this
state of things the grief-striken parents
were compelled to keep their dead child five
days, when the clergyman leaving town,
the sexton consented that if the parents
could get some woman to carry the child to
the church-yard or cemetry after sunset, he
would bury it outside the consecrated
ground, but she must not let it be seen, or
say anything about it. Under these cir-
cumstances the parents not knowing what
else to do consented to this proposition, the
mother of the child however followed the
person who carried the corpse, and stood
away off and saw the sexton dig a hole near
the fence, and bury the child as he would a
cat or dog. The mother overpowered with
grief came up, and asked permission to 
plant a rose tree in the edge to mark the
spot, but was informed by the sexton that
he dare not let her do anything of the kind,
but he leveled the ground so that no traces
of the burial could be seen. This was very
grievous to the parents, as they have two
other children buried in the same cemetry,
neither of which had been christened, yet
they were favored with what is called a
Christian burial. To what a state of deg-
radation some beings will allow their big-
otry and prejudices to carry them; this, a so-
called minister of the Gospel (?) refuses
burial to a little boy who never knew any-
thing of sin, but to show his spleen on its
parents who presumed on serving God in a
different manner than he would have them
do. Shame on all such who assume to
themselves such prerogatives, for they call
down the indignation of an offended God
upon them; they know not how futile their
efforts will be to accomplish what they have
in their hearts, and how low they will sink
down in disgrace as many others have done
who have raised their heel against the work 
of God. The time will come and is not far
distant when they will realize and know to
their sorrow against whom they have waged
such a warfare, yet we would after all, and
more especially could we see them repent
of their evil way say with our Savior—
“Farther forgive them for they know not
what they do."—L. J. N., in Mill. Star.


It is told of a man poorly dressed that he
went to church seeking an opportunity to
worship. The usher did not notice him, but
seated several well-dressed persons who pre-
sented themselves, when finally the man
addressed the usher, saying; "Can you tell
me whose church this is!" "Yes, this is
Christ's Church" "Is he in?" was the next
question, after which a seat was not so hard
to find.


