SPLINTERS. 
			LOCAL
	The retail Produce Department of the
Z. C. M. I. has been purchased by Mr. S.
W. Sears......The Royal Marionettes have
been performing at the Theatre......Lord
Claud John Hamilton, M. P. and present
viceroy of Ireland, lately visited our city
......A little daughter of Mr. David Day,
was kicked by a horse recently, her right
eye destroyed and a portion of the frontal
bone broken off and driven into the head;
but the doctors say she will recover. 
			PERSONAL.
The Empress of Russia will soon visit
her daughter the Duchess of Edinburgh, in
England......Miss Kellogg refuses to give
ten nights of English opera in California
for $20,000 and expenses......Mrs. Kate N.
Doggett, who visited this city some three
years since, is now editor of the "Hospital
Bazar" of Chicago......Anna Dickinson will
go abroad when she has finished a book she
is now writing......Helen Marble who lately
gave a musical entertainment in California
is spoken of as "the impersonation of grace,
with a most powerful yet sweet and flexible
voice......Mrs. Walter Lacy who recently 
died in London, was the original Julia in
"The Hunchback"......Knappeler's medall-
ion bust of Aga[-]siz is the best likeness ex-
tant of the great naturalist......John B.
Gough has a collection of Cruikshank's pic-
tures, numbering over two thousand.
			FOREIGN.
	There are thirty-five old Catholic congre-
gations in the Jura, Switzerland......The
Bank of England is reported to be about to
advance its rate of interest......Ten thou-
sand Spanish soldiers whose term of ser-
vice has expired have been disbanded......
The shipment of contraband goods across
the Spanish frontier will be stopped by the
French Government......Mon. Testiole, cap-
tured by brigands, ransomed for ten thou-
sand dollars......The Midland Railway com
pany of England is to dispense with second
class coaches......The river Nile which has
been overflowing its banks at Cairo, Egypt,
is falling......One of the most severe ty-
phoons, ever witnessed by foreigners, visi-
ted the southern part of Japan, last Au-
gust.
			GENERAL.
	Public works in New York reported at a
stand still......Indians of Nebraska prophesy
no grasshoppers for six snows......State fairs
in the West have mostly been failures this
year......Great improvements have been
made the past year on public buildings and
grounds at Washington......Thirteen horses
were killed by one stroke of lightning dur-
ing a recent thunder storm at Upperville,
Va......Northern woolen mills are stopped,
but Georgia is increasing her number of
looms......A beautiful and accomplished
Pennsylvania heiress, lately, "immortalized"
her name among her friends by eloping with
a negro......Mrs. Julia Perkins of Cincinati,
recently murdered her child and attempted
suicide but was prevented......The estate
of Charles Sumner has been appraised and
is valued at one hundred and thirty-four
thousand, seven hundred and fifty-eight
dollars......Telegrams of recent date from
the east, tell of a $150,000 fire, one of $30,
000 and another of $20,000, taking place
about the same time and in towns but little
distance from each other.


OF what trade are bees? Comb makers.


