FROM OCEAN TO OCEAN.

	Under the above heading, Dora Darmoore
publishes an interesting descriptive sketch,
of her overland journey, from which we
give the following passages, attributing any
errors that occur to imperfect information
gathered during a hasty visit:
	"As soon as we were fairly within the
bounds of Utah Territory, the signs of a
prosperous and industrious people were seen
on all sides. Smiling meadows, fields from
which the golden grain had been lately cut,
orchards bending beneath their burden of
fruit; neat, and often costly farmhouses,
reared their roofs amid the luxuriant
foliage surrounding them, and it seemed al-
most incredible that less than a quarter of
a century ago all this fertile and charming
landscape was a bare and desolate plain.
Truly has the desert been made to "blosom
like the rose," and too much credit connot
be given to the brave and determined people
who have been the pioneers in this great
work, even though they are fired by re-
ligious fanaticism.
	Upon reaching Ogden, we changed cars
for
		SALT LAKE CITY,
Which lies thirty six miles south. The sun
was near the horizon, and its last beams fell
like a shower of crimson and gold over the
Great Salt Lake, which lay at our right,
with its lofty, mountainous islands, and its
rocky promontories rising like huge masses
of amethyst from the glimmering waves at
their feet. Never, except in Colorado,
have I witnessed such gorgeous sunsets as
those I saw in Utah Territory. No artist
can ever hope to transfer to canvass any-
thing but a sorry imitation of such wonder-
ful coloring.
	Night had closed in before we reached
the "City of the Saints," and as we rolled
through the quiet streets towards our des-
tination, the Walker House, we were struck
with the perfect repose and orderly appear-
ance of the town. No loafers were loung-
ing about, no noise; everything was like a
New England Sabbath evening. The fol-
lowing morning we were up betimes and
on the alert for the novel experience that a
sojourn among the Mormons might bring.
	First, for a stroll through the broad,
shady streets. Every house has its large
and well kept grounds, and everywhere
were an abundance of trees, mostly fruit
trees, thus combining utility with beauty.
Over the doors of many of the business
houses were conspicuously displayed the
significant letters "Z. C. M. I." as well as
on bulletin boards, and at the begining and
ending of advertisements, usually preceded
by the legend "Holiness to the Lord," en-
circling the All-seeing eye. Where these
characters are seen over a place of business
it indicates that the proprietor is a good and
faithful saint, and pays his tiths with prom-
titude into the coffers of the church. Of
course in our rambles about this modern
Eden, we kept a sharp lookout for the
"muchly" married citizens, as well as their
better—what shall I say—certainly not
halves, possibly fourths, eights or even 
sixteenths. Well, as I said, we kept a sharp
lookout for those fraction[-]d portions of the
Mormon households, and though it is very
rare indeed to see a Mormon woman on the
street, unless she has special business there,
we were fortunate enough in the course of
the morning, to be thrown into the society
of several.*	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Driving in a carriage about the city, our
first visit was to the Tabernacle, an immence
building, capable of seating fifteen thou-
sand people. It is unsupported by pillar or
column, and its whole great dome forms a
perfect arch. Back of the chair where
Brigham sits rises the great organ, the larg-
est in America, with the single exception
of the celebrated one in Boston. It was not
yet finished, though the designer had been
at work on it for four years. Adjacent to
the Tabernacle, workmen were busy on the
new Temple which is being made of a white
stone, found in the adjacent mountains. We
were shown the design, and if fate ever
wills it to be finished, it will be one of the
finest works of art in America. The Mor-
mons have learned to depend upon them-
selves, and should any fortune sever them
from the rest of mankind, they are quite
able to live independent of them.
	I visited the Deseret News office, the
Mormon organ, and was received very
courteously by its editor, G. Q. Cannon, Esq.
He is a very zealous and efficient expounder
of the doctrine of the Latter-day Saints, and
one cannot but believe while listening to
his recital of the early trials and troubles of
these saints, and his expressions of belief
that they were led by the Almighty, that,
if an enthusiast, he is at least an honest
one. He showed us some fine specimens
of paper made by themselves, and also in-
formed us they manufactured all their own
type. Can one doubt the ultimate success
in a pecuniary point of view of a people
who have literally no imports, and a con-
stantly increasing supply of exports? (It
should be so. ED. W. E.) Nature has ap-
parently kept her best gifts in store for this
people, who have had the sense and the
boldness to fathom her secrets. Natural
springs of cold, warm and medicinal waters
are constantly being developed, and on each
side of the broad, finely graded streets, a
clear, sparkling stream of living water goes
dancing over the pebbles at the bottom. No
muddy, foul and loathsome ditches here; but
everywhere cleanliness is the order of the
day.
	Nowhere, even in New England itself,
is the Sabbath so rigorously observed as in
this city. The municipal authorities being
exclusively Mormons, have everything their
own way. No beer saloon, no cigar store,
and even no barber shop is allowed to be
open on that day. So the unfortunate who
has failed to lay in a supply of lager or Ha-
vannas, or to attend to his tonsorial duties
on Saturday night, must fain go unshaven,
thirsty and smokeless, till Monday morning
relaxes the rigor of the Mormon law enfor-
cers.
	After two days spent in this delightful
city, we were again forced to proceed on
our journey toward the setting sun, and I
must express my astonishment at finding
here in this far-away place, hotel accommo-
dations rivaling those in Chicago or New
York."


