HYGIENIC NOTES.

	ERYSIPELAS, a disease often coming with-
out premonition, and ending fatally in three
or four days, is sometimes promptly cured
by applying a poultice of raw cranberries
pounded, and placed on the part overnight.
	INSECT bites, and even that of a rattle-
snake, have passed harmless, by stirring
enough of common salt into the yolk of a
good egg to make it sufficiently thin for a
plaster to be kept on the bitten parts.
	LEMON FOR DIPHTHERIA.—In a clinical
lecture by M. Bucquoy, he expressed his
preference for lemon juice, as a local appli-
cation in diphtheria, to acids, chloride of
potash, nitrate of silver, per-chloride of
iron, alum or lime water. He uses it by
dipping a little plug of cotton wool, twisted
around a wire, in the juice, and pressing it
against the diseased surface four or five
times daily.
	MEN talk about "hardening the constitu-
tion," and with that view expose them-
selves to summer's sun and winter's wind,
to strains and efforts, and many unnecessary
hardships. To the same end ill-informed
mothers souse their little infants in cold
water day by day, The best way I know
of hardening the constitution is to take
good care of it, for it is no more improved
by harsh treatment than a fine garment or
a new hat is made better by being banged
about.—Hall's Journal of Health.
	IN case of burning or scalding the body,
immersing the part in cold water gives en-
tire relief, as instantaneous as lightning.
Meanwhile, get some common white flour,
and apply it an inch or two thick on the in-
jured part, the moment it emerges from the
water, and keep sprinkling on the flour
through anything like a pepper box cover,
so as to put it on evenly. Do nothing else,
drink nothing but water, eat nothing, until
improvement commences, except some dry
bread softened in very weak tea of some
kind, Cures of frightful burns have been
performed in this way, as wonderful as they
are painless.
	As a people, we do not get enough sleep,
we do not get enough rest, we will not take
time for these things, hence our nervousness
our instability, our hasty temper, and the
premature giving out of the stamina of life.
Half of us are old at three score, the very
time a man ought to be in his mental, moral
and physical prime. Half of our wives,
especially in the farming districts, die long
before their time, because they do not get
rest and sleep proportioned to their labor.
Nine times out of ten, it would be better for
all parties if the farmer should get up and
light the fires and prepare breakfast for his
wife, she coming directly from her toilet to
the breakfast table, because it almost always
happens that she has to remain up to set
things right long after the husband has gone
to bed, when really he has nothing to do
after supper but to go to bed. This is a
monstrously cruel imposition on wives and
mothers.—Hall's Journal of Health.
	IF a person swallows any poison whatever,
or has fallen into convulsions from having
overloaded the stomache, an instantaneous
remedy, more efficient and applicable in a
large number of cases than any half dozen
medicines we can now think of, is a heaping
teaspoon of common salt and as much ground
mustard, stirred rapidly in a teacup of water,
warm or cold, and swallowed instantly. It
is scarsely down before it begins to come up,
bringing with it the remaining contents of
the stomach; and lest there be any remnant
of poison, however small, let the white of
an egg, or a teacup of strong coffee, be swal-
lowed as soon as the stomach is quiet; be-
cause these very common articles nullify a
larger number of virulent poisons than any
medicines in the shops.
	IN one of his Boston lectures, Dr. Brown-
Sequard gives the following simple means
for checking coughing, sneezing, etc.—
"Coughing can be stopped by pressing on
the nerves of the lip in the neighborhood of
the nose. A pressure there may prevent a
cough when it is beginning. Sneezing may
be stopped by the same mechanism. Press-
ing, also, in the neighborhood of the ear,
may stop coughing. It is so, also, of hic-
cough, but much less so than for sneezing
or coughing. Pressing very hard on the top
of the mouth, inside, is also a means of
stopping coughing. And I may say that
the will has immense power there. There
was a French soldier who used to say, when-
ever he entered the wards of his hospital,
'The first patient who coughs here will [-]e
deprived of food to-day.' It was exceed-
ingly rare that a patient coughed then."


﻿A WASHINGTON correspondent writes:
“In company with Mr. Allison I called on
our honored citizen, the genial and very com-
petent Secretary of War General Belknap.
He is in appearance every inch a soldier,
and in bearing a gentleman, without the
frigidity and fussiness of too many officials.
During the pleasant private conversation he
gave me this item of his personal history:
"I was born in Washington, and in passing
the War Department I used to wonder if I
would ever get into it. In the course of
time I read law, and became a clerk for six
months in the War Office. I then took my
satchel and started West for Iowa, with a
deep conviction and presentment in my mind
that I would one day return here as head of
the Department. A fellow clerk said to me:
'Belknap, you are a fool to leave a good
clerkship, with a salary of twelve hundred
dollars and go West.' 'I went West,' he
said, 'I am Secretary of War,he is my clerk.'
This is only one of a thousand incidents
illustrating the wisdom and correctness of
the oft' laughed-at advice of the sage Chap-
paqua, ,Go West, young man!'"


﻿Why is Sunday the strongest day in the
week?—Because all the rest are week days.


