HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Corn Meal Pudding.—Two pints meal, one
pint grated bread, one of molasses, one of brown
sugar, one of sour milk.
	Canning Fruit.—The process is very simple.
Place a clean and very wet towel in a pan, away
from currents of air; set the can to be filled on the 
towel, put a silver spoon in it; then set the fruit
funnel and pour in the boiling fruit. Remove the
funnel and spoon, fill the can to the very top, and
seal tightly. Then, when nearly cold, give the
screw ring, if possible, another turn or part of a 
turn.  Stand the cans upside down to make sure
that they are tight. If the syrup can't get out the
air can't get in.
	That is true!  Men do need and should have
night-gowns. Every man does who knows "what's
what" and when he does he does not do as nine-
tenths of the women do who wear them, wear the
garment he has worn all day under his night-gown.
How many women are there who remove the 
chemise when they put on the night-dress? But the
men who do wear night-gowns make them substi-
tutes for the day shirt—hence they benefit by the
change, whereas woman suffers by the addition.—
R. N. Y.
	To Stiffen Linen.—Such articles as collars,
cuffs, etc., which require to be made very stiff;
should be starched in the following way:—Mix a
tablespoonful of starch with enough cold water to
make it smooth, then turn on enough boiling water
and boil it ten minutes; then add a bit of white
wax the size of a three cent piece and a teaspoonful
of alcohol. The spirit is to increase the stiffness
and help to retain it. The wax is to prevent the
starch from sticking to the iron. If the flat iron
still sticks to the starch, rub hard soap gently over
the bottom of the iron. Put the collars, cuffs, etc.,
into a tin pan and place in a warm spot by the 
stove or range, to become very dry before putting
away.
	-Renovating Half-worn Clothes.—A few weeks
ago a new suit of clothes was considered indispen-
sable by the head of our family who had unfortu-
nately been caught in a shower, giving his good
clothes rather a dilapidated appearance. But not
having more means at our command than our ne-
cessities demanded, and having determined to econ-
omize in every possible way, I concluded that if
sponging and pressing would restore them it should
be done and proceeded accordingly, sponging the
collars and other soiled parts, with hot soap-suds,
followed by clear, warm water, then damping
the lining of each garment and pressing carefully
on the wrong side, placing a clean cotton cloth, free
from lint, under the iron. The result is that "our
husband" is quite satisfied with his old clothes,
and has even been complimented by persons of
taste, on the "nice fit" of his "new suit."
	Night Dresses.—A good deal is said of the man-
ner and fashion and ways of caring for "ladies'
and children's" night dresses; but where are the 
men's? Don't they have any or are they unmen-
tionable? It is self-evident that no person should
wear a garment during the night that is worn dur-
ing the day; and if a "lady," with scarcely enough
exercise to produce a drop of perspiration, needs a 
clean, well-aired garment in which to sleep, how is
it with a man who has been hard at work all day
in the dust and heat, with the sweat dripping from
every pore? If a healthy, active child, to whom
sleep comes as easily and naturally as to a kitten,
needs a refreshing night dress, how is it with the
man and father who has spent the day in his pent
up store, office or counting room in exhaustive
mental labor and goes to bed worn out in mind and
body and with every nerve unstrung?
	Though men have wisdom, power and ability,
though they are strong, helpful and independent,
though they have office and greatness, sit in legis-
lative halls and become M.C.'s, they do need and 
always should have—night-gowns.
					    	Geraldine Germane.


