HOME AFFAIRS
	THROUGH THE "Millennial Star," Betsy
Dobson requests Thomas Dobson of this city
to communicate with her care of James Top-
ping, 4 Leeming Street, Preston, England.
	DURING THE days of the late Conference,
numerous calls were made at our office by old
friends and new, and we take this opportunity
for saying we were pleased to meet them all.
	ADVICES FROM Bear Lake Valley state that
the people there have been blessed this year
with the most abundant and finest harvest of
all kinds of grain ever raised there, also that
live stock is doing finely.
	A TRAGEDY occurred at Bountiful some days
ago, which appears to be as mysterious as it is
was terrible. Mrs. John Adams, a resident of
the above named place for more than fifteen
years, and a good, kind, inoffensive woman,


was suddenly shot dead by some unknown per-
son, while sitting by the table reading. It was
evening and quite dark which rendered the
tracing of the assassin at the time impossible.
And so far, neither day-light, diligent search
nor anything else has given any clue to the
perpetrator of the fiendish act.
	WE LEARN from Sister Elizabeth Fox, of
Franklin, Oneida Co., that their Relief Society
has lately been newly organized. And from
Sister S. Say, of Fairfield, Cedar Valley, that
the Society there is moving steadily on in their
good work. The sisters of the different societies
throughout the Territory, will please remember
that their friends and co-workers are always
pleased to hear from them through the EXPO-
NENT, and not forget or neglect to send in their
reports.
	A LOVELY bouquet of autumn flowers has
been placed upon our table by Mrs. Wagstaff
of the Sugar House Ward. Pinks, peonies.
scarlet geraniums; crimson, yellow and white
dahlias, double stocks, French marigold, snap-
dragon, sweet williams and white hyacinths,
beautifully arranged and set off with asparagus
and a broad-leaf-silver-edged grass, the name
of which we are not acquainted with. We
gratefully acknowledge this compliment of Sis-
ter W.’s, and think, although she apologized
for her bouquet's being late, it has no look of
“the last rose of summer.”


