[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Aprils | Author: Cloward]
[April's Pennies Arlene D. Cloward]
April's  Pennies 
Arlene  D.  CJoward 
APRIL  sat  up  quickly  at  the  April  did  his  bidding  excitedly, 
tread  of  Papa's  heavy  boot  and  the  small  family  trouped  in 
upon  the  loft  ladder.  Her  quietly.  Mama  smiled  at  them  from 
eyes  swept  over  her  three  little  her  high  bed,  her  auburn  hair  look- 
brothers  sleeping  peacefully  on  their  ing  brighter  than  usual  against  her 
blankets,  nestled  deep  in  the  frag-  pale  face  and  the  white  pillow, 
rant  hay.  The  one  thing,  and  the  April  hugged  her  and  kissed  the 
only  thing  that  was  pleasant  about  smooth  cheek  before  she  turned  to 
the  night  Mama  gave  birth  to  a  look  at  the  tiny  little  bundle  Aunt 
baby  was  the  fact  that  they  could  Ella  was  holding  up  for  her.  She 
sleep  in  the  loft  in  the  barn.  Joey,  peeked  down  at  the  little  round 
Tim,  and  two-year-old  Georgie  had  face,  and  her  heart  seemed  to  pound 
had  great  fun  playing  in  the  hay  against  her  ribs.  Very,  very  gently 
the  night  before;  it  had  been  she  she  touched  the  soft,  fuzzy  cheek 
who  had  sat  by  the  tiny  loft  window  and  the  little  doubled  fist.  She 
and  prayed.  Mama  never  had  an  giggled  happily  as  she  saw  the 
easy  time  at  best,  she  knew  from  the  downy  black  hair, 
way  Aunt  Ella  talked  the  next  day.         ''Oh,    Mama,    we   finally    got   a 
Papa's  tired  face  and  tousled  black  baby  with  Papa's  hair." 
hair  came  up  first  over  the  edge.  Mama    smiled,    too,    looking    at 
followed  by  his  long  arms  and  legs,  the  crop  of  red,  brown,  and  yellow 
His  gray  eyes  were  weary,  but  he  heads  surrounding  her  and   up  at 
smiled.  the  beaming,  dark  father. 
''Mama?"  she  asked  tensely,  grip-         Later,  April  ran  up  the  narrow 
ping  the  corner  of  her  blanket.  stairs  to  her  tiny  room  tucked  be- 
Papa   grinned.      "Mama   is   fine,  neath  the  eaves  and  took  out  her 
and  you  now  have  a  wonderful  little  little  glass  jar  that  was  almost  full 
baby  .  .  .  ."  of  pennies.     Yes,  the  Fast  Sunday 
April  caught  her  breath  ".  .  .  sis-  when  the  new  little  baby  would  be 
ter!"  She  flew  into  Papa's  arms  and  blessed  and  Timmy  would  be  con- 
squealed  delightedly,  "Oh,  Papa,  I  firmed  a  member  of  the  Church, 
never  dreamed  it  would  really  be  she  would  wear  a  pretty  new  dress, 
a  girl!  Oh,  I  love  boys,  of  course,"  the  first  really  new  dress  of  her  ten 
she  added  loyally,  glancing  with  years;  all  her  others  had  been  made- 
affection  at  her  brothers,  "but  a  sis-  over  ones.  She  looked  at  the  shiny 
ter!"  pennies  she  had  saved  so  diligently 
Papa  ruffled  her  golden  red  curls,  from    tending    Mrs.    Kinley's    chil- 
"Wake  up  the  boys  and  tell  them,  dren  —  at  last  there  were  enough 
Wash  them  well  at  the  pump,  and  for  her  new  dress.    What  could  be 
then  I  reckon  you  can  go  on  in  and  so   wonderful   as   to   have   a   sweet 
see  your  new  sister  .  .  .  Mama,  too,  sister  and  a  pretty  dress?  She  closed 
of  course."  her  eyes  and  pictured  the  frilly  yel- 
Poge  453

454 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1955 
low  dress  with  the  full  skirt  in 
Tomkin's  show  window.  Tomor- 
row, it  would  be  hers. 
That  evening  the  family  sat 
around  the  table  after  the  dishes 
were  cleared  away,  and  Mama 
looked  on  from  the  bed,  smiling  in 
deep  contentment.  Joey  grinned, 
showing  plainly  the  big  gap  where 
his  two  front  teeth  were  missing. 
''What  are  we  going  to  name  Ht- 
tle  sister?" 
Papa's  eyes  crinkled  at  the  cor- 
ners. ''What  would  you  like,  Joey?" 
"Daisy." 
"Daisy!"  April  exclaimed,  "why?" 
JOEY  looked  a  little  abashed,  and 
^  Tim  crowed,  '"Cause  that's  his 
cow's  name."  He  began  to  giggle, 
but  Papa  stopped  him  with  a  stern 
glance. 
"Daisy  is  Joey's  choice.  What  do 
you  like,  April?" 
"I  think  we  should  name  her 
Katy  after  Mama." 
The  boys  all  agreed  eagerly, 
especially  Joey,  and  Mama  kissed 
each  of  them  with  starry  eyes.  So 
it  was  decided. 
April  gazed  at  the  tiny  round  face 
pillowed  against  Mama's  breast  and 
sighed,  "She'll  look  so  sweet  in  the 
new  dress  we're  going  to  get  for 
her  to  be  blessed  in." 
Papa  laid  his  book  down  slowly. 
"I'm  afraid  we  can't  get  the  gown 
after  all,  honey,  what  with  the  doc- 
tor bills  and  all." 
Tim  looked  up  and  his  eyes  were 
bright.  "No  new  suit  for  me  eith- 
er. Pa?" 
"I'm  afraid  not,  son,"  Papa  said 
softly,  covering  Tim's  chubby  hand 
with  his  large  one. 
Tim  gulped  to  keep  back  the 
tears,  for  it  wasn't  every  day  that  a 
boy  was  confirmed  a  member  of  the 
Church. 
April  thought  of  the  suit  that 
Tim  would  have  to  wear,  the  sleeves 
coming  up  above  his  wrists  and  the 
trousers  much  too  short.  She 
glanced  at  his  face  and  felt  tears 
coming  close  at  the  look  of  misery 
in  his  eyes,  but  she  saw  the  brave 
smile  that  he  flashed. 
"Oh,  that's  all  right,  Pa.  It  doesn't 
matter." 
But  it  did,  very  much,  and  April 
knew  it. 
The  following  day  April  took  her 
bottle  of  pennies  and  tucked  it  care- 
fully in  her  big  purse.  Today  was 
the  day  that  she  could  buy  the  pret- 
ty dress.  Papa  helped  her  up  be- 
side him  on  the  wagon  seat  and 
clucked  to  the  horses.  He  grinned 
down  at  her. 
"Well,  honey,  today  is  the  day 
you've  been  planning  on  for  so  long. 
You'll  look  real  nice  in  a  new  dress." 
April  smiled,  but  she  wasn't  as 
happy  as  she  had  anticipated.  Papa 
left  her  at  Tomkin's  store.  'Til  be 
back  in  about  a  half  hour.  Just  take 
your  time  and  look  around." 
April  waved  after  his  broad  back 
and  stepped  up  before  the  big  win- 
dow. There  was  the  dress!  It 
looked  even  more  beautiful  than 
ever,  and  her  heart  pounded  hap- 
pily. It  would  really  be  hers.  She 
hurried  inside  and  started  toward 
a  clerk.  Then  she  turned.  It  was 
only  once  in  a  small  girl's  lifetime 
that  she  saved  so  much  money,  and 
she  might  as  well  spend  a  little  time 
carrying  it  around  before  she  gave 
it  all  away. 
She  walked  through  the  aisles  and 
felt  very  wealthy  as  she  saw  the  dif- 
ferent pretty  things  that  she  could

APRIL'S  PENNIES 
455 
buy.  There  were  silk  scarves  and 
bottles  of  perfume  and  jewelry 
and.  .  .  .  She  stopped,  for  there, 
spread  out  before  her,  was  a  beauti- 
ful, sheer  white  baby  dress  with  a 
wide  row  of  lace  and  a  satin  pink 
bow  on  the  lace  yoke.  She  caught 
her  breath  as  she  read  the  price. 
Why  she  could  even  buy  that  and 
have  money  left  over.  But  she  hur- 
ried away  quickly,  for  she  didn't 
have  money  for  that  and  her  dress, 
too. 
April  decided  that  she  didn't  want 
to  look  around  after  all,  and  she 
started  back  to  the  clerk,  when  her 
eyes  caught  sight  of  a  neat  blue 
suit.  She  walked  closer.  It  was 
just  Tim's  size.  She  closed  her  eyes 
tightly  and  ran  to  the  smiling  clerk's 
side. 
'1  ...  I  want  the  dress— the  yel- 
low one  in  the  window,"  she  said 
breathlessly. 
"THE  clerk  smiled.     'It  is  pretty, 
isn't  it?     It's  just  the  type  for 
you. 
She  chattered  on,  but  April  didn't 
hear  her  because  she  kept  thinking 
of  Tim's  brave  little  face  and  his 
suit  that  looked  like  it  was  Joey's— 
and  the  sweet  tiny  baby  pressed 
against  Mama  that  would  be  wear- 
ing the  slightly  yellowed  dress  that 
was  so  worn. 
''No,  wait  a  minute.  I've  changed 
my  mind.  I'd  like  that  pretty  baby 
dress  .  .  .  and  the  blue  suit,  if  I 
have  enough  money."  She  said  it 
quickly,  for  once  said,  it  could  not 
be  undone. 
The  clerk  smiled.  ''Are  you 
sure?" 
April  held  up  her  head  very 
straight,  and  her  eyes  sparkled  as 
she  pictured  her  brother  and  sister 
in  their  new  clothes.  "Yes,  very 
sure! 
She  had  enough  money,  with  a 
penny  left  over,  and  she  held  the 
big  package  tightly  as  she  picked 
out  a  penny's  worth  of  peppermints 
for  Mama.  Then,  very  slowly  she 
took  out  the  jar  of  pennies.  Her 
heart  pounded  as  she  handed  it  to 
the  clerk,  and  with  each  penny  that 
she  counted  her  dress  was  more 
and  more  impossible,  until,  at  last 
the  pennies  were  out  of  sight  in  the 
cash  drawer. 
She  closed  her  eyes  tightly  as  she 
walked  past  the  shop  window  and 
ran  across  to  Papa  quickly. 
"Did  you  get  it?"  he  grinned 
as  she  flounced  up  beside  him. 
She  nodded. 
"Good,"  said  Papa.  "You  certain- 
ly look  happier  than  you  did  when 
we  came." 
April  was  a  little  amazed— but 
she  was  happier! 
When  they  arrived  home  Mama 
called  to  April,  as  she  ran  through 
the  room.  "April,  dear,  may  I  see 
this  lovely  dress  you've  talked  so 
much  about?" 
"Can  I  wait  until  Fast  Sunday, 
Mama?" 
"Of  course,  dear,  if  you'd  rather." 
April  smiled  and  handed  her  the 
bag  of  peppermints.  Mama's  eyes 
twinkled  as  she  thanked  her. 
April  dashed  up  the  stairs  and 
laid  the  package  carefully  on  the 
bed  and  tore  open  the  wrappings. 
She  had  fully  expected  to  cry,  but 
as  she  touched  the  rippling  folds  of 
the  dress  and  held  out  the  suit,  she 
smiled  instead.  Putting  them  on 
hangers,  she  placed  them  in  the 
closet  beside  her  freshly-ironed,  old,