[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering]
From  The  Field 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbooi:  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Delia  H.  Teeter 
DENVER  STAKE   (COLORADO)   PRESENTS  WORD  PICTURE  OF  THE 
CONSTITUTION  "THIS  IS  FREEDOM,"  March  15,  1955 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Marlyn  Hess,  representing  a  housewife;  Charlotte 
Clifford,  an  American  citizen  of  today;  Helen  Henry,  a  citizen  of  tomorrow;  Blanche 
Pusey,  stake  social  science  class  leader,  who  gave  the  prologue  and  directed  the  program; 
Dorothy  Villalobos,  representing  the  armed  forces;  Elva  Wright,  representing  the  Relief 
Society. 
Standing,  at  the  right^  left  to  right:  Josephine  H.  Madison,  as  the  Constitution 
personified;  Louine  Cromar,  President,  Denver  First  Ward  Relief  Society,  as  a  citizen 
of  the  past. 
Second  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Marjorie  Whitman,  organist;  Reta  R.  Beck, 
stake  chorister,  who  directed  the  music. 
Third  row,  standing,  at  the  right:  Delia  H.  Teeter,  President,  Denver  Stake  Relief 
Society. 
Fourth  row,  standing  at  the  right,  right  to  left:  Mollie  Richardson,  First  Coun- 
selor, Denver  Stake  Relief  Society;  Thclma  Robinson,  Second  Counselor,  Denver  Stake 
Relief  Society,  who  introduced  the  program. 
All  the  wards  in  Denver  Stake  participated  in  this  program  which  was  based  on 
the  word  picture  "This  Is  Freedom,"  by  Alberta  H.  Christensen,  a  member  of  the 
general  board  of  Relief  Society. 
Page  461