[Vol42 | July 1955 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: The Towers of Liberty Vesta P. Crawford]

Editorial Dept. 245. Subseription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 11038, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. The Documents of Freedom Louis H. Callister tuted in the United States Tis first legal holiday instiwas the Fourth of July. In reflecting upon the celebration of this historic day, it is natural to contemplate the events that brought it about. It took a revolution to break the bonds with the Mother Country; not the type of revolution we hear so much about today. Historians tell us that if any pattern can be discerned in the revolutionary movements of modern times, the American war for independence does not conform to it. The American Revolution did not result from serious economic discontent. In point of fact, the depression which followed the French and Indian War had, within a few years, been succeeded by a period of considerable prosperity and even business expansion. 'True, the final retaliatory measures of the British government—notably the closing of the port of Boston—caused some localized unemployment, but few people in the colonies were ever hungry in 1775. The amazing thing to learn is that the American Revolution did not array class against class, and particularly it did not conform to what is known as a Communist or Marxist pattern. 'The recruits for the revolutionaries' cause, or patriot cause, came from all classes and economic groups. 'The landed aristocrats, the merchants engaged in transatlantic and Caribbean trade, Page 420 the local shopkeepers, the professions, the mechanics, and the laboring classes, all were engaged in this great cause for freedom. The American Revolution was definitely not a class war. 'The leadership of this great movement was drawn from the upper and middle strata of society, which explains why it stopped short of a reign of terror, and why, for example, no single royal governor lost his life in the conflict. It was entirely different from the French Revolution. The American Revolution was accomplished without the extremists seizing power, without resort to dictatorship, and without any violent reaction. The Fourth of July was the day on which the Declaration of Independence was signed, a new country came into being, "The United States of America." It was in the Declaration of Independence that this name was first and formally proclaimed to the world, and to maintain its verity the War of the Revolution was fought. The Declaration of Independence was written by Thomas Jefferson. He was selected by his fellow committeemen to write this immortal document. In a letter 'Thomas Jefferson wrote to James Madison in 1823, he makes the following statement:? The committee of 5 met, no such thing as sub-committee was proposed, but they unanimously pressed on myself alone to undertake the draught. I consented; I drew it; but before I reported to the THE DOCUMENTS OF FREEDOM committee I communicated it separately to Dr. Franklin and Mr. Adams requesting their corrections... And you have seen the original paper now in my hands, with the corrections of Dr. Franklin and Mr. Adams interlined in their own handwriting. Their alterations were two or three only, and merely verbal. I then wrote a fair copy, reported it to the committee, and from them, unaltered to the Congress.. FE are told that Jefferson, without consulting a book or pamphlet, wrote in a half day's time our great national symbol, The Declaration of Independence. The rough draft may now be seen in the library of Congress. Jefferson was a young man, only thirty-three years of age at the time. He had already gained a reputation in the fields of science and literature. He was acclaimed by the men who knew him best as an able lawyer, scientist, and philosopher, and a writer of some repute. He was a man of wealth and social position, a real aristocratdemocrat. Historians record that he was tall, redheaded, and an excellent horseman. Fifty-six names are appended to this important document; most of the signers were well educated and in the very strength and prime of their manhood; the average age of the signers was forty-four years. Youth certainly played an important part in the formation of our great Government. We should also keep in mind on this important day, "The Constitution of the United States." How many of us have a passing knowledge of this great document, the greatest constitution ever penned by man? It guarantees to every citizen of this country those inalienable 421 rights, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Our book of fundamental law is the Constitution of the United States. It has stood the test of one hundred and sixty-six years. No government has undergone so little change as ours. The first ten Amendments, called the "Bill of Rights," were passed in 1791, the year after the last of the thirteen states had ratified the Constitution. Since that time only twelve Amendments have been adopted, making a total of twenty-two Amendments. The stability of this great document is more remarkable when we stop to consider the revolutionary changes that have taken place in the social life of man since the Constitution was written. It was framed at the very end of the pastoral-agricultural age of humanity. It is truly a marvel in statecraft and can only be explained by the fact that the Constitution was developed by men of superior intelligence and education, and who had a real genius for self-government and one of its essential elements—the spirit of selfrestraint. I am reminded of section 101 of The Doctrine and Covenants, verses 79 and 80, which read as follows:. It is not nght that any man should be in bondage one to another. And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood. Another quote from the dedicatory prayer given by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple on March 27, 1836: 422 Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth, have mercy upon the rulers of our land, may those principles which were so honorably and nobly defended, viz., the Constitution of our land, by our fathers, be established forever RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 When the day comes in which the Kingdom of God will bear rule, the flag of the United States will proudly flutter unsullied on the flag staff of liberty and equal rights, without a spot to sully its fair surface; the glorious flag our fathers have bequeathed to us will then be unfurled to the breeze by those who have power to hoist it aloft and defend its sanctity. (Discourses of Brigham Young, Page 360). * (D. H. C. Vol 2, page 424). In closing let me cite an interesting and prophetic statement given by Bigham Young: o-Ps July 20-23 Iris W. Schow I think of the people moving: Of their hands and minds whose skill had grown Grappling with the barriers of plain and mountain pass; Of their flaming sword of truth, Undulled by turning back the blows of falsehood; Of their adamant faith that could not be worn away By the harsh abrasives of the world, That soaring faith which flew ahead Into the vision of the future And came winging back to the present I'o hearten and beckon the wayfarers. And I think of the Valley waiting: Of its plain, patient, desert face Lifted to the harsh caresses of midsummer sun; Of its pure water flowing unused into the salty reservoir; Of the ground enriched through centuries of waiting, That thrice-fallowed land, like a great unkempt body With promises of grace, under discipline and grooming. I think of the moving people and the waiting Valley land Brought slowly together, surely, in the crucible of God. —>- Our Country Ida Isaacson Awaken in us, O God, a fresh and responsive spirit toward our country. Make our hearts hot within us, burning with patriotism and loyalty. This is no time for an economy of feeling; we must understand the magnitude of the hour. Help us to keep our eyes open to the painful truth; Let us express in happiness all that we have acquired or enjoyed because we are free. Let us not choke our native fire, but keep it burning; Let the vibrations of past patriots resound in our memories And fill our consciousness with unmeasured gratitude to them. Hermanas CHAPTER 1 Fay Tarlock son in secular history to dream of the brotherhood of man was Alexander the Great. I am no historian, I only know of the time in my life when I shed childish prejudices and could call all men brothers. And call them that from the heart. Not so long ago I sat with my sisters (hermanas) and watched the gentle sunlight sift through the church windows and lighten their faces. I joined with them in the familiar hymns and bowed my head with them in prayer, but my thoughts were in another land and in a time some years past. In this land the sunlight, more golden and intense, fell upon women with darker faces. Yet I loved them, and each was my sister. Perhaps it was not so in the beginning. I was a stranger in their land and had first to love before I could be loved in return. Yet, each day the melodious language became more familiar, the customs piqued me less. Almost without my recognition, false presumptions slipped away, leaving eagerness and understanding. I recall an April morning in my garden. *% * K K I: has been said that the first perThe rains that year began with a March and April prelude. Late in the night it had rained, leaving puffy white clouds scudding towards the south. 'The sky above the garden was an incredible blue. Heliotrope, pink geraniums, red and purple bougainvillae, blue plumbago, and gossamer ferns cascaded down my garden walls weighted with jewels that trembled and sparkled in the sunlight. Above the far wall the first blossoms of the jacaranda waved in lacy clusters of blue. I pulled the folds of my robe closer about me and lifted my sandalled feet high to avoid the shimmering pools of water. It was sheer joy to pluck a rose or smell a red carnation. Through the open kitchen door I could hear the laughter of my twin girls as they raced in the front corridor. Within my walled garden there was no warring world, no strife. I had only to enjoy the day. Contentedly, like one of the tiny lizards on the wall, I sat on a bench of blue and yellow tile and stretched lazily in the sun. Through half-closed eyes I saw Amporo. She came through the open door, her huaraches flapping busily on the red tile walk, her black eyes bright with the importance of her message. Let it be of no more concern than a message from the Senora's cook that she would send me a dish of pepper and cheese. I did not stir on my cool seat.: "Senora." Amporo dropped her black eyes decorously, her bent head showing the thick coils of hair on her slender brown neck. "Celestina Page 423 424 of the Senora de Vargas house would like permission to speak to you." Her small hands were folded under her favorite apron of coral. "Of course," I answered, too lazy to be impatient of all this ceremony. Celestina knew she could speak to me at any time; yet she followed the custom and sent word through an intermediary. "Tell her I am in the rear patio." CCELESTIN A was a lady. No huaraches for her. She wore the stiff, cheap shoes of the mercado and no pink apron, but a plain, dark dress that shadowed her calm beauty. She came gliding down the tiled walk, eyes meekly lowered, hands clasped in anticipation of the favor she would ask. "Senora?" Her voice was quiet music. "Will you be gracious enough to give a moment of your time to Lolita, who is presently the cook?" "You have no need to ask." Celestina had done much to improve my manners. I rose, if reluctantly, from the cool tile bench to accept her parting bow. Lolita, who was presently the cook, was a stranger to me, though these last few days my twins had been often in the de Vargas gardens with Lolita's daughter. At this moment her gay laughter was mingled with the hilarious shouts of my offspring playing in the corridor. It was, I knew, vacation time for Esperanza, the regular cook. Lolita, from the house of an old friend, had come for the three weeks. What she wanted of me I could not even imagine. She must have waited by the corRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 tidor door that separated our two houses, for Celestina had no more than bowed out than she was with me. So small she was, so beautiful and regular her features, save for her graying hair, she might have stepped down from the tile picture that guarded our entrance—the little brown Virgin of Guadalupe. She came towards me, hesitant and timid. It was no small favor she had to ask. "Senora," she said, lifting her reluctant eyes to mine, "I have long been known to the Senora de Vargas. For many years, since my daughter was an infant, I have lived in the house of her friend. This friend... The husband of the friend, has long been in diplomatic service." She said it with pardonable pride. "For several years we have resided in Buenos Aires, but early this year, Senora, the friend, who was also my friend and mistress, died." Her sad brown eyes filled with tears and I took advantage of the break to sit down again, motioning her to sit beside me. Sorrowfully she shook her head, making it plain that it was not her place to sit beside me. "The diplomat's wife died?" I asked, encouraging her.. "Yes, la Senora Urbina died." Lolita sighed, lost in her memories of her mistress. I waited. After all, I had nothing pressing to do, and the peaceful promise of the morning was already gone. ) Lolita wiped away the last of her tears. "At the same time, Senora, I, too, was ill from an illness of long standing." She spoke as one under HERMANAS a compulsion. "I do not want to burden you with my troubles, only to explain that it was best for me to return to Mexico... For my health, and because it was no longer agreeable for me to remain in that house." She lowered her voice. "It was, you understand, the Senora who was my friend, not the Senor." I nodded. "Since my return I have had an operation and am improved in health, so much so that I no longer need be separated from regular work." She was looking hopefully at me, and again I waited. "IT have wondered, Senora, if you would care to have me and my daughter?" She ventured it bravely. "'As you have noticed, your own small ones are much attached to her. She is not, you understand, uneducated as are so many of the nursemaids of Mexico." A superior smile lighted her face. "It will sound incredible to you, but she has been educated in private schools and in different lands, even in Paris, Senora." Before I could take in all this astounding news, she hurried on, "My former mistress had no children and Graciela was treated almost as if she were her own." "THE pleading in Lolita's soft brown eyes was more than [I could bear. "I am so sorry," I said, trying to cut short her plea, "I Should like to have Graciela and you in my house, but it is not possible." The brown eyes still refused to believe. "I am quite content with my present arrangements,' I said firmly, "in- 425 deed, I could not change. Amporo depends on us, is one of the family, and Alicia, who comes twice a week for the laundry, is also contented with us, as we are with her." I thought of the succession of maids before Amporo: the lazy one who would not dust and who left the dishes sticky; the one who did not like us; the one who took the twins on the street and fed them until they became ill. I recalled the laundress who had returned the clothes gray and musty smelling. No, I would not part with Amporo who loved us and needed our home. Neither would I dismiss Alicia whose washings were white and clean smelling, and who was a poet by nature and made her two days with us a time of delight. "IT am sorry,' I said again. "I cannot change." Lolita's eyes still pleaded with me. "Could you not enlarge your household, Senora?" She lowered her eyes. "I I have heard that you often cook. I could please you with my cooking, I am sure." "IT am sure you could," I said gravely polite, "but in my own country I was cook and maid and laundress in one. It is a great luxury for me to have Amporo, and I am afraid that, even if we could afford a cook, my husband would not be pleased. He wishes me to cook his meals."' She made one last effort. "The twins, Senora. Graciela and I could care for them and assist you in many ways I could mention. We would give you absolute freedom." "I know you would be most helpful. Graciela charms my children, and they would learn much from her, but I like to be with my chil- 426 dren. One of the treasures Mexico has given me is leisure to spend with them. At home there was so much work, now I can enjoy them. And you must know," I said gently to end the interview, "that we are not wealthy people. Amporo and Alicia are all that we can afford." She was dismissed, but I sensed her business was unfinished and I tried to end it. "Even in Mexico good servants are hard to get. You will easily find another home." If I had thought to end our discussion, I was mistaken. Words poured from her in a torrent of bitterness, so unexpected after her gentle manners. "You have exposed my trouble, Senora. I cannot go into every home with my daughter. Your home is a good one. Your husband is good and kind. I have seen, with my own eyes as I have made the tortillas in the garden." She gestured towards the open fireplace in the de Vargas garden across the low hedge of ivy and geraniums. "Also, the maids in the other household tell me of his goodness. Graciela would be safe in your house." "But you have no need to worry. Graciela is still a child." Her dark eyes flashed. "If that were only so. You have not noticed, Senora. Graciela is no longer a child. She will be eighteen her next birthday, a woman and a beautiful one.": M* eyes widened in astonishment. At that moment my twins chose to catapult themselves into the garden by way of the kitchen door, their laughter wild with excitement. Fast behind them came Graciela, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 her black hair streaming behind her in two long braids. She looked no more than twelve or thirteen. "Oh, Mother," Marita cried, her blue eyes dancing, "Graciela is so funny. Look at the burrito she drew for us." She held up a crayon drawing of a pathetic little donkey. 'Then the three of them threw themselves, laughing, on the red tiles in front of my bench. I laughed with them as they broke into an excited conversation in Spanish, deciding that the donkey should carry bano wood, not baskets. "Stand," Lolita prompted her daughter, and the girl rose swiftly to her feet, smoothing the folds of her faded blue cotton dress with its childish bodice and white collar. In a flash Lolita wound the two long braids of hair into a coronet on Graciela's small head, and I saw what I had not seen before. Graciela was a young lady and a lovely one. Petite like her mother, her features as perfectly formed and her hair blue black, she was fairer of skin. Her eyes under the beautifully arched brows were a liquid brown. I hesitated, not liking to ask the next question. "Her father, is he alive?" With a practiced hand, Lolita dismissed the trio, her eyes dwelling sadly on Graciela. "Carlos, her father," she answered, turning to me, "was a man of my village. He was killed in a fight in the village over water rights. Wo men were killed with him and Graciela was not yet born." By now the sun was climbing high overhead and shone hot on my un- HERMANAS covered head. To avoid the steaming heat, I sat on the bench again, shaded by the pomegranate tree. This time Lolita accepted my invitation, but she remained on the far end, erect, with hands clasped in front. ~ "I will not tire you with the story, Senora. It was a long time ago. All I will say is that it was necessary for me to live with his family. It was a house with milk and bread for all, but I had known my own house and could not live with another woman who considered herself superior to me and took my baby as if it had been born to her. I ran away and came to Mexico with a cousin who worked here. She found me a place in the diplomat's home." I learned that Lolita had a place to stay. It was the old Urbina house, the home of her former mistress, and was in San Angel. It had been built by the Senora Urbina's family in colonial times, and in the late Senora's will she had stipulated that as long as old Ramon, the caretaker, lived, or as long as Lolita willed to live there, it was not to be sold. Ramon had broken his arm pruning a tree. While it healed, he was having a hard time to till the garden, which gave them sustenance. If she could not live in my house, she would try to find day work so that she could live in the house and care for Ramon. "You see, Senora, I cannot take my child into any home. She is too attractive.' She sat on the bench listless and sad, as only a Mexican can be sad. I stirred uneasily in the shade. For some reason unknown to me I ha been selected to help, and I resent- 427 edit. In the still heat of the garden I could hear my husband's warning voice, "Remember, you can't change the world... You don't have to get in the middle of every injustice you hear about.... Remember what happened the last time you tried to help the people across the street remember remember." DETERMINED to have nothing more to do with Lolita's trouble, I could not help wondering what would be the future of her child. Lolita answered my thoughts, her eyes dark with passion. "My child, Senora, she must have a better future." She spoke with vehemence, as if something long smoldering in her had burst into flame. "She has goodness, intelligence, beauty, and, as I told you, she has been educated. She speaks, Senora, three languages besides her native Spanish—English, French, and German. Proudly she rolled the words on her tongue. "She is indeed accomplished." I thought of my struggles to be proficient in one language not native to me. As I sat there, seemingly idle, my brain flashed frantic messages. 'The girl must be helped. She must be kept in school until she could find suitable work. Where could she work—in an embassy, in an American's office? A little warning bell sounded. "Something should be done to help her." I said it lamely. By now the flame of passion in Lolita had burned itself out. She drooped on the bench, her face older, her eyes despondent. I ignored the warning bell. "You must let me think a bit, let me talk with Graciela," 428 "If only you will, Senora." There was a straw of hope in her. Now, I thought, the woman will go. I must myself get about the day. I was in my robe, and it would soon be time to start dinner. "Is there something else you wanted to say?" Lolita's face resumed its calm beauty. She smiled at me in gratitude. "If you will be good enough to give me another moment. Yesterday, when your little ones were hunting a book for Graciela, she saw two books on your shelf." "Yes," I nodded encouragingly. "They were two books of religion, one a Book of Mormon, one a history of the Mormon Church." My whole face opened in astonishment. "Do you know them?" Her smile was warm as the sun. "In Buenos Aires, Senora, we heard of your Church. We attended some meetings and met with your missionaries." THE unknown reason why she had persisted! It was almost incredible. "Did you like what you saw and heard?" "Oh, yes, Senora, we did," she said, her shoulders straight. "How shall I say it, your religion gave me a hope I had never had before." "What was that hope?" "It is hard for an unlearned person like myself to tell you." You do very well, I thought. "It made me feel that someday I could be free—to make my own choices... And that sometime if I tried hard enough I could live in dignity. 'That I, too, had the divine spark." "You put it very well, Lolita. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 That is the promise of our religion." "It meant even more," she went on eagerly. "It made me believe my daughter would have a_ better chance. It is a simple religion, verdad, simple enough to live by each day, and yet so deep it might change my very soul." I thought of the poor of many countries who had had that same dream, way back in the nineteenth century. Among them had been my own people, and the promise was just as bright today. "Are you a member of the Church?" "It is not that easy, Senora. I have been reared in another faith, one that has been part of my people for a time so long I cannot say." Yes, you have lived your life in a blend of pagan and religious mysteries. Will you be able to grow enough to absorb this religion with its new and hard-won freedom? Are you strong enough for it? As if she read my thoughts, she said, "We have not had a chance to know ourselves in this new religion. Just as we began to learn, we came away. Here in Mexico has been a time of illness. I do not know if there is a Church here or missionaries who will help us." I told her that E] Presidente and his wife lived in Mexico City, that in a remote Colonia was a new chapel. 'The first Sunday morning my husband was free we would take her. I made no further promise to Lolita, but when she left, my head swirled with plans. I called to Graciela to leave the children in the front corridor. I had to know what dreams, what plans she had. (To be continued) Don Knight at, x eee ae ~: SYLVAN LAKE, CALIFORNIA Canyon S: torm Evelyn Fjeldsted Where oak thickets thrive near the still water's brink, A little gray fawn came at nightfall to drink. From somewhere a wind voiced a strange melody A wind on the lake like a great storm at sea. The rain began softly, then suddenly splashed, The lightning grazed treetops and bold thunder crashed, Resounding through mountains and down valleys green, But dawn found the deer and the canyon serene. In tree-lined old corridors, flowers reached up To hold sylvan sunlight in each perfumed cup. Benign skies bent over the cool, quiet heights, After the canyon's grand midsummer rites. Page 429 Your Journal Tells Me Grandma Melba S. Payne wish I could sit close beside you II tonight, Grandmother, and have you tell me firsthand of the things I am reading about in your journal. I read many things between the lines which I believe you would confirm for me. You were a young bride when you left your comfortable home in Nauvoo, full of love, life, and romance. Expectations and plans for the future must have filled many of your waking hours. I would not want to trade this age for yours, Grandmother, but I wish I might have known, as you did, the Prophet Joseph Smith and might have seen him as you saw him, astride the fine black horse your father gave to him. "What are you doing with that fine animal?" the Prophet had asked, as he passed your father's pasture in Nauvoo. "I am training him for you, Sir," said your father, and right then the Prophet left with the shiny black mount which became a_ favorite with him. I am sure many times you saw the Prophet pass your home on his way to and from his office, and I imagine you could never forget the voice of the runner as he came through the streets of Nauvoo bringing the sad news of the Prophet's death and that of his brother Hytum. What mixed emotions you must have had that day when you went with your mother and your sisters into the fields, trembling with fear and apprehension for what Page 430 might happen next! What did you think later, when you passed the biers of Joseph and Hyrum? After the long journey across the plains, did you glimpse a beautiful mirage in Salt Lake Valley when you came down from the mountains? Were you greatly disappointed to find only sunflowers and sage growing here, and big black crickets crawling about on the sun-baked earth? How did you feel when you moved into your first home, which was a small dugout in the big field which had been staked out by your father? When the rains leaked through the dirt roof of this abode, I can almost hear you say, "How glad I am that I brought along such a fine umbrella." I am sure that you did not complain, either, when pigweeds and thistles formed the main course of your daily diet. You represented many more who, like you, were indomitable in the face of rugged pioneering. Vicariously, I share with you the trying, hopeless days that preceded the incident which inspired the Latter-day Saints to build the only monument in the world erected to the memory of a bird. I read about the happy day when you moved into your new, large adobe home, after living in your second valley home which was a log cabin. 'This roomy place was durable and inviting. It still stands today, gaunt and lonely. Now I remember things, too, about some of my visits there. A quiet dignity YOUR JOURNAL TELLS ME GRANDMA always seemed to hover about the house whenever [ went exploring. I would imagine I could see you sitting by a cradle pressing the rocker with one foot while your hands were busy making rag carpets to cover the wide board floor of your "front room." Just behind the house stood the summer kitchen, with a cool, dirt cellar underneath. I paused there one time and imagined I could see, there on the shelves, the pans of milk, with thick yellow cream crinkling on top against the time for skimming. In a corner was an old, broken, wooden churn. It was this which prompted this quiet reverie. Outside, close by the summer kitchen, was an old smokehouse where all the neighbors used to bring their fresh hams and bacon to be cured for the winter. Days in this home were more unhampered and secure for you, Grandmother. No longer did you need to gather saleratus from the ground to make the leaven for your bread, and no longer did you need to drain watered ashes to get lye with which to make your homemade soap. You could buy lye in cans, and those little hard Magic Yeast cakes were surely welcome to all, although you seldom needed a new "start," because you loaned and borrowed a yeast sponge which was kept fresh by several users. In this new West you had many joyous, happy times. You did not lack for entertainment. 'There were many dances and celebrations. 'The drama was all important, too. In the theaters, your journal tells me, you were entertained by local talent and also by traveling professional troupes who presented some great 431 plays, operas, minstrels, and ballets for your enjoyment. 'Iam told how much you loved these entertainments. Were you thrilled, Grandmother, as you watched the building of the temple in Salt Lake City? Did it remind you of the building of that other temple in Nauvoo, where you had carried your father's lunch to him as he labored on its construction? I know that you saw, on that eventful day in August 1544, the mantle of the Prophet fall on Brigham Young as he, Brigham, spoke to the large congregation in Nauvoo concerning who was to lead the Church in such critical times. I wonder what this meant to you, as you sat there with your family. Your journal tells me you witnessed that miracle. I have just come from a visit to Aunt Mandy's. She is your third child and is now one hundred years of age. Her keen memory has helped me to expand this sharing of your life with you. In your day, Grandmother, the only hazard on the streets was an occasional runaway horse or team; but death rides our highways today. T still say, I would not trade my day for yours; but I would barter for some of the peace and quiet of your day that I might tread more slowly through the years. Just for tonight, however, I have felt a calm serenity in going back through your years and some of my own. I have gained new strength and a faith that will help me to carry on; all because of reviewing these things of which you have told me in your journal. Strength Edith Larson grassy top of the first foothills the third night. Hannah paused in the supper chores to watch the afterglow fade from the crests, so much closer here and so much more massive. From the other side of the valley the mountains had been friends, a rampart against the Indians and bad men that lurked in the barrens to the east. "Take a good look." It was Amos who had come up silently beside her. "Tomorrow we'll be in too close to see the top." Ashamed to have been caught idle, Hannah turned back to the fire and stirred the stew simmering in the iron kettle. Did Amos guess the fears that filled her? After her first exclamation of dismay when he had broken the news to her that they would join his father's family and answer the call for settlers for the eastern valleys, Hannah had tried to hide her reluctance and join wholeheartedly in the preparations. She had married Amos to be a helpmate to him, not a millstone around his neck. But to leave the twenty-year-old settlement where she was born and found a home in a wild canyon! 'To leave the adobe oven in the yard where a week's supply of bread for the whole family could be baked in one day, and go back to baking on an open fire! 'To leave the well with its windlass-raised bucket in order to carry water from a creek! Page 432 fy four wagons reached the To leave the companionship of two hundred people and her own family circle to share all her days with Father John, Mother Mary, and their children! Her own mother had always been telling her how easy life was today compared to her own pioneering days. Could she, Hannah, measure up to the hardships and uncertainties of wilderness life? It was one thing to be a good wife to a steady young brickmaker with regular hours and a comfortable cabin to house his bride — it would be another thing entirely to meet the crises of home building and family rearing in an empty valley beyond the mountains. And most frightening of all to Hannah, was her new-found certainty that her family would have its beginning during the dead of this coming winter. I Amos had followed her to the fire, frowning a little. "It looks a long way up there from here, but we don't need to go the whole way at once. One day's journey at a time isn't so far. 'That's all we face each morning." Hannah ladled out a plate of stew and brought it to him, smiling with the touch of shyness that always overcame her when she really looked at this strapping big husband of hers. "Thank you, Amos," she said. "I''ll not forget. One day's journey at a time." It was a wonderful thought. She hugged it to her and included it in STRENGTH her prayers. "Oh, Lord, give me strength to face just one day's journey at a time." Thus she began the practice of praying each morning for just the day that was dawning. I' was well that Hannah was thinking in terms of one day only, for in terms of weeks the disasters mounted alarmingly. The trail laid out by Amos' brother Joshua proved impassable for wagons. 'Three weeks were lost in fruitless effort, in backtracking, and in making a hasty survey of other canyons. The last wagon was roped down the last rock barrier and the train wound slowly into the open valley on the thirteenth of August, one month behind schedule. John ordered no rest until a permanent camp was set up. Hannah was glad that Amos was kept so busy, for it would give her time to recover from her horror at the sight of her new home. The straggly fringe of willow brush along the creek was a poor substitute for the stately cottonwoods and slender aspens back home. The sun was already down, for the mountains rose close at their backs; but the heat still shimmered on the red and gray ridges that stretched to the east as far as she could see. All was barren rock except the fan-shaped creek bottoms where rank grass spelled just one word to Hannah—her dreaded snakes. I Looking back, she thought perhaps she should be grateful for the ugly rattler whose swaying head and darting tongue had held her in fascinated horror until Amos had pinned it down with a forked stick. For 433 that rescue marked the beginning of his courtship. However, this trek across the mountain had increased her fear of snakes. She was glad when the men chose a barren knoll for their campsite rather than the high grass nearer the creek. Here they turned the four wagons carefully, making a square. Boxes of goods were hoisted on top and the thickest willows laid across for rafters to support the leafy branches that topped this makeshift bowery. The shade would be welcome, but it offered little protection from storms. The structure was crowded with Mary and John's eight younger children and Joshua's two motherless little ones. In this treeless valley, nothing else was possible. Family prayers were late that night, made later yet because Amos whet a scythe and mowed a path through the rank grass to the creek. More than ever, Hannah was thankful that she had had time to hide her dismay from his searching eyes. Since God had blessed her with a good man who even cared for her weaknesses, the least she could do was not to complain. In the late family council, Amos reluctantly agreed that all three men would have to return up the mountain to cut timber for cabins instead of one man remaining with the women. Lying beside him, later yet, Hannah knew he was sleepless from Worly. "We will be all right," she whispered. "Your mother is a tower of strength, and young Daniel is almost a man grown. Soon you will be hauling the logs down." 434 Amos sighed. "It is not the way we planned, but time is running out. We must have cabins before winter sets in. You will be all right, Hannah." "Yes, I will be all right." One day at a time. Not a day's journey now, but a day's work that began with the rising sun and continued through the scorching afternoons until darkness laid its damper on the heat. ROM the first, the housework and responsibility for the children fell to Hannah, for Mary helped Daniel and the two younger boys in working the one team of oxen the men left. First the rank grass had to be cut, cured, and piled in a stone corral which Hannah and the children made. Each acre was plowed and planted as fast as it was cleared, because no one knew how late a fall they could count on here. In this one thing the new settlement was blessed: the frost held off until the men were back the first of November. In spite of her homesickness, Hannah was grateful. 'The logs for the cabins had been cut and brought down without serious mishap. 'The garden truck, though meager, at least promised a_ better diet for the winter. The winter wheat was well stooled out. Even though the two cabins were raised during howling wind storms that threatened their temporary shelter, she was thankful, for the snows held off until both cabins were snug. She was thankful, again, that Mary insisted that Joshua and his two children share the bigger cabin with them and leave Amos and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955 Hannah alone. Alone for the first time in six months. Really alone, for the first blizzard howled out of the east and there seemed to be no end to it. When, after three days of infernal shrieking, the wind finally died down, Hannah and Amos stepped out into a white world. The knoll on which their cabin stood was almost bare, but the creek bottom between them and the canyon lay buried in drifts many feet deep. Going ahead, Amos beat a trail to the other cabin. In places the loose snow was waist high on him, but Hannah, following in his footsteps, had easier going. 'They found the family at morning prayers and thankfully joined them. Then the men set out to find the stock. All day Hannah helped with the children and made talk, though, as time passed, her heart became heavier and heavier. Painfully, she steeled herself to meet Amos cheerfully should the stock be lost. The men came at last, Amos leading a heifer heavy with calf. "We found six head of oxen in a natural shelter up the canyon three miles," John said as he sank exhausted onto a bench. "If the storms aren't too severe, they'll winter there all right—better than here where they'd get the full force of the wind." Not a word of regret for the ones that were lost.. Amos was looking at Hannah. "Do you think we could share our cabin with a poor creature needing shelter?" Share a cabin with a cow? But before she could protest, she looked once more at the swollen, heaving STRENGTH sides and drooping head, and her heart went out to the poor creature in pity. "Only for a few days, while we build a corral alongside the cabin," Amos assured her. HEN the new corral was finished and the heifer in it, Hannah found that she missed her. She missed the warmth of her body and the soft moo that followed her own heavy movements about the room. She could still hear the heifer stirring in her new shelter, and she took great pleasure in caring for the creature herself. When the heifer safely gave birth to a red bull calf, Hannah was as proud as the mother. The family Christmas day was made happier for everyone with a taste of fresh milk. Amos took Hannah home before the day was half over. His anxious glances at the eastern sky were not lost on her. Once inside their own cabin, with the fire blazing cheerfully, he took a coil of rope down from its peg on the wall. Seeing Hannah's wonder, he told her, "I thought it might be a good idea to string a rope from here to the other cabin, as a guide in case of a bad storm." Hannah went white. "Do you think it is going to storm again like it did before?" she asked. Amos looked at her soberly. "I don't know," he said. "That's the real trouble. I don't know. No one that we know of ever wintered here before." Hannah wet her lips. "It will be a comfort to know we are connected with the other cabin," she managed to say. 435 Amos smiled down at her tenderly. "Yes," he answered, "it will be a comfort." The wind was rising steadily when he returned. Standing in the door of the corral, Hannah watched his progress along the rope. He held on with one hand and with the other sheltered his face against the wind which now carried stinging particles of sleet-like snow. 'The rope looked so frail! "That rope is quite an idea," he said, as he came in stamping his feet and brushing ice particles out of his beard. "IT am glad you thought of it," Hannah told him and hung his wet jacket where it would dry. But when, three nights later, she woke with the knowledge that her time was upon her, she lay as still as she could instead of waking Amos. 'The wind was still whistling down the chimney. Out there, in the snow-laden darkness, half buried in the drifts piled up during the past three days of unceasing blizzard, a frail rope linked two cabins. If she roused him, Amos would try to follow the rope although he had avoided trying it yesterday even by daylight. THE other storm had lasted three days. Perhaps this one would subside by morning. She clenched her fists and fought back the moans that wanted to come in spite of her. Time stretched on and on and on. She lay back exhausted from the struggle to suffer silently and became aware that Amos was leaning over her with a lighted candle. "How long?" he asked anxiously. "It—doesn't matter," she gasped. 436 "Mary could never make it in this blizzard." "She'll make it if I have to carry her," he promised as he struggled into his coat. "Don't leave me," Hannah whispered. But perhaps she didn't say it loud enough. At least she knew that he was gone. She began to pray. Strength for just one day, oh, God. Strength strength just one day. And then Amos's big, rough hand was holding hers. A murmur of voices underlay the screams that she could no longer hold back. She mustn't scream, for Amos's sake, but she knew she was. The pain went on and on until she sank into a stupor of exhaustion. But someone was calling her back. Above the howl of the storm she could hear someone calling. Her worn-out body resisted the call, longing to rest and gain strength in the blessed peace of absence from pain. The call was too strong. Even before she wearily opened her eyes, she recognized it. Her first-born was screaming lustily—screaming a protest she must answer. But surely Mary knew better than she what the infant needed! It took an effort to turn her head toward the sound. A larger fire than usual filled the other side of the cabin with leaping shadows. 'The flickering light played on the homemade table over which two tall figures bent. "Mary," Hannah whispered. But it was Amos and Joshua who were caring for the screaming infant. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1955. "Hannah, are you all nght?" Amos asked quickly. "Where is Mary?" "Mother is down with a fever," Joshua answered. "We didn't come and tell you for fear of worrying you. And there was nothing you could do." "She gave us full instructions," Amos added, his voice heavy with unexpressed emotion. "We did the best we could." ANNAH felt the implied apology, knowing that only the presence of Joshua kept Amos from saying more. "You did well," she hastened to reassure him. "Listen to our baby!" "It's all right for him to cry like that, then?" Amos asked anxiously. Helplessly, Hannah wondered how she was supposed to know. Fivery nerve in her worn-out body begged her to rise and take the screaming child away from the clumsy ministrations of the two men. If only her mother were here! Or Mary with her wealth of practical experience. Hannah tried to remember all she had heard about the care of newborn babies. But how could she concentrate with that agonized wail filling the little cabin? Surely there was something she could do. Anxious to finish the task, the men had turned back to their job. The heart-rending cries went on, undiminished, a shrill obligato to the howling wind. She must get up and go to her baby. She must. Gathering all her strength, Hannah slowly pulled herself to a sitting position on the side of the bed. No STRENGTH one heard the sound of the rustling straw. As Hannah's feet touched the cold earth, weakness flowed over her in a sickening wave. She lowered her head until it passed, then slowly sat upright. She could never gain her feet. Never. Slowly she inched her way to the head of the bed until her groping hand found a wooden clothes peg along the wall. Clinging to it and using all the strength she could summon, she pulled her weight erect. She was on her feet! Triumphantly she took a step away from the wall. 'The fire flashed in a vivid circle as the floor rose to meet her. HEN she regained consciousness, she was back on the bed. 'The cabin was dimly shadowed, the only light coming from the lowburning fire. 'The baby was in his cradle on the hearth, still crying, but weakly, pitifully. 'The storm had ceased. In the lean-to she could hear Joshua talking to the heifer as he tried to milk her. Amos knelt by her bed, his head buried in the quilt. She reached out and touched his hair. "Hannah!" Though he raised his head from the covers, it still drooped on slumped shoulders. His big hands covering hers were cold and clammy. "Hannah, what can I say? If I could only have suffered for you! But I promise you when the mountain pass is clear, we will leave this place and go back. No future child of yours will be born where there is no one to call on for help." 437 Hannah's heart leaped for joy. "Oh, Amos!" She was too overcome to say more. "IT should never have taken you away in the first place. You are too delicate for pioneering." "Amos, bring me our son." Heavily, he obeyed, placing the closely wrapped bundle on her arm. Hannah pulled back the blanket and looked at the tiny red face, screwed up in misery. 'The weakness of its cry frightened her. Back home, with Mother. But her heart was filled with gratitude. God had given her such a wonderful husband — so good and kind and strong. So full of love for her that he would turn his face away from his destiny for her sake. Her joy went as quickly as it had come. 'lo go back was to admit that she had failed him. Oh, Amos would never blame her openly. He would not need to. She would blame herself. The old familiar prayer of the past months came from her anguished heart, so deeply in need of strength. She felt the answer. She felt buoyed up as she said the words she knew she must say. "We can't go back, Amos. Others will join us here. We have a valley to conquer for our first-born." The heavy shoulders straightened as Amos looked down into her face. "You want to stay, after all you've been through?" he queried, his eyes searching her face for a truthful answer. "It's only one day at a time, Amos. God will give us strength for one day at a time." The truth was shining in her face. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" TRAVELS IN IDAHO: Here I am in the wonderful Snake River Valley with the famous 'Teton Peaks towering in the eastern sky white with their everlasting mantle of snow Since leaving Salt Lake City one month ago, I have visited twenty-seven towns holding three meetings in each. I have traveled two hundred and fifty miles by train and nearly five hundred by team, over hills and dales, through' canyons and mountain gorges, over sage brush plains and lava beds, along shady glens and fragrant meadows We have many ditches, creeks and canals to ford, sometimes the water coming into the wagon bed.... Many of the little towns are situated along the picturesque banks of the Snake River. When the little towns and hamlets become large cities with towers and spires reaching heavenward, and the plains covered with extensive orchards, then we may expect a change in climate as we have found in our own loved Utah. —Ellis R. Shipp THE FUTURE CONQUEROR Hear the soft patter of little feet, Keeping their step in the march of time; List to the voice of childhood sweet Singing the song of our cause sublime; Steady each footfall, though light and free, Faltering not as they onward press, Cheering the strains of the melody, Telling of peace and righteousness —Edited by L. A. C. Penniman RELIEF SOCIETY IN BEAR LAKE STAKE: 'The conference of the Bear Lake Stake Relief Society convened at Bloomington, May 29, 1895, President Julia P. Lindsay presiding.... Opening remarks were then made by Sister Lindsay, in which she expressed pleasure at being enabled to meet with us in conference.... She also said that as Sister E. Collings and herself were getting old and were not able to take their journey through their stake as they used to, it was thought wise for her to select another aid, accordingly Sister Amelia Hodge was chosen and unanimously sustained as an aid to the presidency of the Relief Society.... Counselor E. Collings then arose and said notwithstanding her great age and feeble body she still had a strong desire to perform every duty devolving upon her as far as she was able... Sister Fretwell said she had lived in Nauvoo at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith; said she knew Brigham Young was the legal successor of the Prophet, for the first time she heard him speak afte: the martyrdom, it was Joseph's and not Se voice; said this was a great testimony to her of the divinity of the work. —Sec., R. S. WOMAN SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS: Miss Estelle Reel, State Superintendent of Public Instruction in Wyoming.... Is reported as saying: The fact that I am a woman did not keep me from bearing my share of the burdens of the campaign, financial or otherwise. I traveled over most of the State of Wyoming... Much of the distance being covered by stagecoach or wagon. I did not make any attempt at oratory in my speeches.... Of course some of the eastern papers tried to manufacture a funny side to the campaign. Well, to make a long story short, the battle was won. —Selected Page 438 ME. LAVINA CHRISTENSEN FUGAL, a Latter-day Saint woman from Pleasant Grove, Utah, is the American "Mother of the Year" for 1955. She is the seventyfive-year-old mother of eight children, all college graduates of fine characters and capabilities. She helped all of them with their education by doing such hard work as gathering fruit, selling garden flowers, and raising chickens. She has contributed greatly to civic and Church activities as well. "TI wish all homes held the family love and affection that have always existed in our home," says her daughter, Mrs. Vida Swenson. ADAME ADRIENNE BUCK, French language instructor at the University of Utah, received in March the medal of Knight of the Legion of Honor, by decree of the President of the Republic of France. Louis de Guiringaud, San Francisco Consul General of France, made the presentation, for Madame Buck's success in furthering closer relations between America and France. As French Consular Agent for the Intermountain Area, she has lectured extensively in America to further understanding of French people and problems. She is now an American citizen.