[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 1 | Fiction | Heart Room for Home— Chapter | ]
Heart Room For Home most. Belligerently. "I intend to be a. Homemaker, a full-time mother and wife," and Mary Ann had lauded her for this decision, ignoring the personal thrust of Rosemary's glance. Mary Ann had started working during the war, when help was scarce and there had been a call for teachers, so many had left to work in munitions plants. Jennifer, who was born in 1935, was in school by then, as were the others, Barbara, ten years older than Jennifer, James and Robert in between. Tommy was not born until 1944 and Rosemary followed soon after, in 1946. When Rosemary was old enough for kindergarten Mary Ann had gone back to teaching to help fill the widening gap between Kim's wages and their family needs. Kim was a highly skilled mechanic in the Metropolitan Garage, but his income would never reach the status of "salary." Fe im sighed heavily without taking his eyes from the freeway, and Mary Ann reached her hand to his knee. "It's another change, isn't it, Kim? Are you worried? It will split our income right down the middle, you know." "There's that to think of, too," said Kim. "But it's taking Dad out of his home that I am thinking about." "Selling it to put him in a nursing home is worse," consoled Mary Ann. "He couldn't stand that." Selling the family homestead had been the crux of the whole thing. It had been Kim's sisters, Emily Todd and also Francine 

415 June 1969

 Grady, who had advocated that drastic move, and the little scene played out in the parlor which had moved her and Kim to take his father. "Td take you in a minute, Dad," Emily had said. "But you know how Victor is—never wants me out of his sight a minute. Life would be miserable for you with us." "I didn't say—I didn't want. Began her father, and Mary Ann had ached with the trembling anguish in his voice. She had been sitting beside the window, ostensibly an in-law aloof from the thinly veiled battle that raged back and forth in the room, with Father Freeman the unhappy subject of this little, turgid knot of indecision. Up to then Mary Ann had loved both her two sisters by marriage, but this conversation was bringing out traits which were anything but pretty. Victor Dodd had always seemed to Mary Ann to be a nice, uncomplicated, unselfish man. "I would, too, Dad, but you know I have my own job," said Francine. Kim and Mary Ann were overdue back to their own jobs, of course. "The whole answer is to sell this place," pursued Emily reasonably. "And put Dad into a rest home." "No! No," protested her father. "T can get along. As soon as I am well, I can." "From a broken hip?" aakeel Francine. "I'm not trying to be cruel, Dad, only realistic. I agree with Emily. The place must be sold. There are many good homes with wonderfulcare, people 416 of your own age as friends, but we'd have to sell the place to keep you there." "No! No!," Father Freeman was moaning, shaking his head back and forth in negation. "How can you think of such a thing, France? Emily?" said Kim, echoing the feelings in Mary Ann's heart. 'That sweet place! Every red stone of it, every square inch of its building was a product of Father Freeman's loving hands, the lilacs along the rock wall, set there when he had brought his bride to the _ thick-walled stone house he had built, the weeping willow dipping its long slim fingers in the bright little brook that bubbled from the spring against the hill back of the house, into and out of the pond where even now the ducks were diving in pastoral peace. Dad was more than a little artistic the way he had landscaped the place, with the flagstone walks winding gracefully under the trees and over the arched bridge, by the rustic bench. The stream circled a knoll, with fruit trees, all prize stock, to the garden _ behind, the corrals out of sight and the acre of lucerne, and the meadow beyond. It had always been a show place from the first crocuses and violets as early as February, through rose time with its bowers and arches, until the last cushion mum which bordered the walks and bloomed from July to October. The children thought it a fairyland. Sell this place? There had been a little silence, then, and an apple thudded to the ground. Since they had come this time Kim had picked the main part of the crop of red and yellow delicious apples and stored them in barrels, dug the carrots and _ parsnips and packed them in cans of sand and picked the winter pears, stored everything in the milk house which his father had chiseled out of sheer rock beside the spring, in perfect coldness for winter eating. Francine and Emily had been happy to assure him that none of them would go to waste. With modern surgery, a steel pin and bone graft, Kim's father had healed remarkably for his eighty-five years from his fracture, and was now up in a wheelchair, even able to get about by use of a "walker," but he could in no way do for himself, or be left alone. A moment of unbalance, an attempt at something too far beyond his reach, and all the good work would be undone. "With care, you will be able to walk again," the doctor had said. "By spring?" Father Freeman asked. "Maybe by spring—with good care." But where was the good care coming from? Had they not just taken it for granted Emily would take her father? She lived less than a mile away, on a part of the old farm sliced off for her and Victor as their wedding gift. Or perhaps had they just neglected to think it through, knowing there was no good solution, dreading to come to grips with it, so settled were they in their family and work patterns, Heart Room For Home the necessity of earning their daily bread. To be sure, they were both past sixty—Kim was sixty-four to his father's eight-five, Mary Ann was sixty-one, but they were still youthfully healthy and were valued as employees in their respective jobs. With Rosemary getting married in June and Tommy getting his degree in sociology from the University of Southern California at the same time, it would take their combined efforts to see the children through their respective high points. Rosemary's fiance was Cary Marks, a young lawyer. The other four children were married, Barbara, James, Robert, and Jennifer, and launched in their lives, but could Mary Ann condemn Emily and Francine for their inability to care for their father in his old age? W..; there just no place for old people in the family of today's living? Unless the children could honor their parents enough to make a place for them, how much better than savages were they? "Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land," hit Mary Ann with a _ particular force. Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, only a few grandfathers back, had held high places in their families in the times of the Old Testament, but were not today's children bound by the same commandment? And were the earlier patriarchs any more deserving of honor than Father Freeman, who had filled a twoyear mission to Scandinavia in (Continued on page 457) 417 \