[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 453 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
oxes was papered with Relief Society Magazine covers. The Magazines from which the ideas were taken were placed above the display. How the Spanish-speaking sisters are benefitting through the Spanish language Magazine was the subject of another display, "The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters." (The sisters had waited many years for the Magazine to be printed in their language.) The Mexico City Stake, through their beautiful mural and artifacts of the South American, people depicted graphically the times of darkness before the restoration of the gospel, and the present time when the light of the gospel is a part of their lives. Scrolls containing scripture passages, placed on either side of the table with the mural and Mexican artifacts, emphasized the difference in the condition of the people in times of darkness and light. One section of the mural showed the Spanish-speaking sisters using the Spanish language Relief Society Magazine. Taylor Stake (Canada) under the direction of Vinessa T. Hamilton, stake Relief Society president, and Lauretta S. Dahl, stake Magazine representative, arranged a display (not pictured) which consisted of a large white panel on which was painted a double door. Under the door were the words "Through the Relief Society Magazine." Gold letters on white nylon curtains draped above and behind the door formed the words "Keys to Eternal Life." On steps leading to the door were five gold key rings, each holding a set of golden keys. On each key ring was the name of one of the courses of study for Relief Society, and on the blue satin folds of the table cover were Relief Society Magazines. To help wards and stakes preserve their Relief Society Magazines at little cost, and to encourage sisters who wish to bind their Magazines, the Rose Park Stake, under the direction of Stake Relief Society President Francis Holtry and stake Magazine representative Doris Hensler, explained and demonstrated different methods of preserving and binding the Magazine. In addition to the table displays, original Magazine posters from a number of the stakes where every ward in the stake achieved 100 per cent or more in their Magazine subscriptions, were on display. As the sisters of the Church around the world join hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The Relief Society Magazine, this medium of communication will help to inform, instruct, inspire, and unify. It will light the way to understanding, sisterhood, opportunity for service and self-development, to stronger testimonies of the gospel, and to happier homes. 

451 June 1969

 CANDIES OF EXCELLENCE (continued from page 445) A candy thermometer, for those who prefer a thermometer for testing. Remember that recipes give sea-level temperatures. To adjust these temperatures to your own altitude, put a thermometer in a pan of water, and bring to a boil. Record the temperature. Sea-level boiling temperature is 212° F. So, subtract your boiling temperature from the sea-level boiling temperature. The difference might be two, ten, twelve, or more degrees. Then subtract that number of degrees from the recipe temperature. If, as in Salt Lake City, for example, the difference is twelve degrees; the sea-level temperature for the soft ball stage is 236°; therefore the candy will be done at 224°. At sea level caramels are done at 246°. In Salt Lake City, where the difference is 12°, they are done at 234°. CREAM CENTERS FOR CHOCOLATES 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla Add cream to sugar in a kettle and stir well. Then, with a cloth wrung from hot water, wipe off the inside of the kettle down to the candy line. Remove spoon and boil over medium heat or less. Important: Mixture must not be stirred during the heating and cooking process, but wipe the inside of the kettle with a cloth three times, down to the candy line, holding the kettle still. Let cook to very soft ball stage 20-30 minutes); test by dropping a bit into a cup of ice cold water. When this can be gathered into a small ball and rolled between thumb and finger under cold water, without adhering to fingers, it is done. Slowly pour a thin stream of candy, outlining the edges of the cold slab, to prevent candy from running off the slab. Then pour the candy slowly from the center to the edge. If it runs off in your first efforts, do not touch tt; let all candy stand untouched until completely cool. Push it into the center of the slab with a long knife. Then use a long wooden spoon, clean and dry, to beat the candy. 452 Never scrape the kettle at all! Scraping causes granulation. If the candy grains, add \, cup cream, stir well; reboil. Add a teaspoon of pure vanilla; it must be the pure vanilla as this is one secret of the flavor. Beat and beat, under the partly opened window, until the candy is creamy and firm; then knead as you would bread, for a minute or two. Divide the candy into three parts. (Yield: 60-70 chocolates) VARIETIES OF CREAM CENTERS Plain Centers Mold the first part into round balls, the size of chocolate centers, by rolling between the palms at an open window, for the plain creams. Place these on wax paper on plates under open window or in refrigerator. Let stand two hours to form a slight crust before dipping in chocolate. After an hour these balls may be shaped into greater symmetry by very quickly rolling between the palms again. Then let stand. Coconut Centers To the second part, add two thirds of a 3¥,-ounce can of choice coconut flakes. Mix and prepare as in part one. Nut Centers To the third part, add as many broken pecans as desired. Prepare centers as previously directed. If covered these centers can stand in the refrigerator a day or so before dipping. CHOCOLATE DIP 5 squares bitter chocolate 4 squares semi-sweet chocolate Use only a few squares at a time, as the leftover mixture should not be re-heated another day for dipping, but used for other things. Melt in a bowl over hot, not quite boiling, water. Lift off burner, and allow to cool for about 2 minutes. Centers must be cold when dipped, and room must be cool. It is said to take two years to make a good chocolate dipper so don't be discouraged if you don't achieve a professional look at first. Use a fork and quickly dip the ie 2 SED chocolate, or roll in chocolate in the palm of the hand. Then set it on waxed paper. When chocolates are hard, trim off the uneven edges at the base of each. Store in fluted chocolate cups in covered tin containers in the refrigerator. MINT FUDGE CENTERS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 square bitter chocolate, shaved and mixed in before putting on the burner (homogenizes during beating) 1%, scant tsp. Mint flavor added after candy has cooled on the slab, also 1 tsp. Vanilla. Proceed as for cream centers above, only flatten the balls before cooling. Then dip if desired. All cream centers are attractive plain, with a half pecan pressed into the top. RAW SUGAR CREAMS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 1 quart raw sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added after candy is cold Follow directions for cream centers. These are particularly nice undipped with an almond half on top. PANOCHA CREAMS 1/%, c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 2', c. White sugar 1 pint whipping cream 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added when cool Make as other creams. PECAN ROLLS Plain cream center, prepared as directed /, lb. Fresh butter 1 c. Evaporated milk 1 c. Half-and-half cream 2 c. White sugar 2 c. White syrup Stir sugar and syrup together and bring to a rolling boil; cook over quite high heat stirring constantly with a long wooden spoon. Add _ the evaporated milk, cream, and butter alternately while syrup is boiling. Candy must be stirred constantly, until it forms a firm ball in cold water, like finished caramels. Pour into a large, buttered platter or cookie sheet and let stand until partly cool but still pliable. Have pecan halves or pieces scattered on a large piece of waxed paper. Plan on about 12-inch long rolls. Take one half of caramel and press out into the nuts. Then take a cream center roll 12 inches long, and 1-inch thick, shaped two hours before, and place in the middle of the flattened caramel pieces. Roll caramel around cream center, pinching the edges together. If some nuts fail to adhere to the caramel outside, use a little maple syrup as adherent. Let stand several hours to cool. This roll can be sliced into pieces and wrapped in the thin plastic wrap. Keep all candies in covered tin boxes in the refrigerator. Good luck!

[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

453 June 1969

 THE ART OF BREAD CLAY (Continued from page 443) Materials needed Plastic sheets, about the weight of a light shower curtain, to work on, to roll clay on, to cover clay when it is pressed out Box of rounded toothpicks Manicure scissors Paints: opaque fluorescent water colors; water colors in tubes—for painting on faces also. Ceramic tools: not a necessity, but a joy to work with in bread' clay—rose cutting set, small sharp ceramic knife, wooden shapers and metal curved tools. However, toothpicks, clean new pencils with eraser tops, tinkertoys with rounded points, tiny cookie cutters, very small sharp knives can be just as effective if you are imaginative and handy. Molds: lovely filigrees, faces, and shapes. Bread clay is marvelous in molds as it takes sharp, clean images quickly. Be sure you "roll" clay into molds and watch that you do not trap air bubbles. Small glue gun: excellent for use as decorator for fine lines, scrolls, and intricate designs. Fill the gun with the special mixture of bread clay. Add additional glue and mix in your hands until consistency of soft icing used for frosting a cake. Pack it into gun, pushing out air bubbles. (It is convenient to have several colors and guns filled and ready for use.) Brushes: very small, for painting faces; larger, soft ones for applying glaze Aluminum foil: for placing bread clay articles on after applying glaze "Joli" glaze (Sister Alvord has found nothing else to give equal finish) or clear varnish. HOW TO MAKE BREAD CLAY Do not be afraid to mix what may look to you to be a very large batch. To mix and color is very time consuming, but, if properly packaged and cared for, the clay will remain usable for many months. Recipe 1 and ¥, lb. Loaves of white sandwich bread 2 scant c. Of any good white glue 1 scant tbsp. Glycerin VY, tsp. Fresh lemon juice Tear away all crust from bread, but leave as much of the white as possible, and break into small pieces. Add white glue, glycerin, and lemon juice. Stir as thoroughly as possible with a spoon then divide into two parts. Take one up into your clean dry hands. Kneading and Pulling Begin kneading and pulling as you would taffy candy. Do not become discouraged at texture and stickiness, but keep pulling and kneading. After about 15 minutes the clay will almost magically begin to adhere and change into a smooth, soft clay. Keep at it until it reaches a uniform, easy texture. Lay the first part aside and begin the same process with the second part. When both are of the same smooth clay stage, put them together, pull and knead until thoroughly mixed. Drop hard, several times, on a clean counter or board to knock out air bubbles and to even up the texture. Caution: Sister Alvord has tried to come to an infallible formula for her bread clay but she cannot know how your climate or atmosphere will affect it. You may find that you will need to leave out 1 or 2 tablespoons of glue (no more, ever!). But before you decide it is too "wet," knead it and pull it to expose it to the air. Let it ripen overnight in your refrigerator (in plastic) before you decide the texture is wrong. 454 The Art of Bread Clay Coloring Sister Alvord suggests that you do all the coloring at one uninterrupted session. This way, you will have all the colors you will need, mixed and ready for months to come. She uses only opaque fluorescent water colors. Shocking turquoise, pink, brilliant orange, vivid yellow, chartreuse, greens, blues, etc., of the brightest colors she can find. These usually come in jars. You will also want black, brown, white (these are tube water colors) and flesh (a mixture of yellow, ochre and a small amount of pink). Be sure to leave some clay uncolored. You will want to variate your colors and you can get into the pastels by using uncolored clay with a speck of the deepest colored clay and work up to desired shade. Divide your prepared bread clay into eight, ten, twelve or as many colors and variations as you would like. (Keep the clay you are not working with clean and covered with plastic.) Using a toothpick, dip into color selected, wipe it across the clay and begin the pulling and kneading process again. Keep adding color in this manner until you reach the stage of deepest color you wish. Knead until all streaks are gone. Be very careful not to leave any color from your hands on uncolored clay that you are planning for other colors, this is what kills the clear colors. Wash hands thoroughly between colorings as the clay will absorb any color stain. When you have all your coloring finished and have placed each color separately in a small plastic sandwich bag, pack them in a cake or cookie tin with a very tight lid and store in your refrigerator. As you work with your clay, remember at all times to keep it covered in plastic as it dries out quickly. Making Flowers To begin, Sister Alvord urges that you make up a good supply of flowers in varying sizes, kinds and colors before you plan for a definite project. With them on hand, your creativity can have more vision. For creating the tiny flowers (all varieties and roses) that are not more than Ye to '/, inch across that Sister Alvord uses in so many of her jewelry pieces, decorative boxes and arrangements under glass—are the following instructions: ROSES Use 3 shades of color. Center should be deepest, and shade out lighter to edge of rose. Sister Alvord makes up all her centers first—often three dozen or so at a time. You will want to start with fewer as the clay dries out so quickly. You will find as you practice you will increase in speed and dexterity. Sister Alvord prefers her centers to be completely dry before building out her petals. It gives a good firm base for the rose. Centers are made by pinching off pieces of clay about half the size of a garden pea. (Or larger if you are making larger roses.) Roll quickly into a small ball between your fingers and drop onto plastic sheet. When you have sufficient to give you a challenge, roll and rub each little ball at one end to pull it into a tear-shape. (With a finger.) Place another piece of plastic sheet over your centers and press each with your finger or any object with a smooth, flat surface. Press them '""paperthin."' Keeping the others covered as best you can, "peel" off a center and beginning with the broad end of the tear drop, roll around a toothpick a little way down so that as you roll it around, you barely cover the tip. Roll it as the tight center of a rose and pinch a little at the bottom so it will stay on the pick. Lay it aside to dry and continue to roll all centers the same. Attention: This tear shape process is the same way Sister Alvord makes her leaves, large and small, except for the last step. LEAVES After pressing "'paper-thin," peel off leaf and with cutting tool or small knife, indent down center. Pinch at broad end of leaf. This is the end to attach to the base. Curve up sides and end as a natural leaf. 

455 June 1969

 ROSE PETALS Petals should be about the same size as the centers. Begin by pinching off again small bits of clay and rolling round between your fingers and dropping to plastic sheet. When you feel you have all you can finish before they dry out, cover with plastic sheet and press again to paper-thin. The petals will all come out fairly round. Pick up a dried rose center, still on the toothpick. With another toothpick, dab a litfle white glue at the base of your center. Peel a paper-thin petal from plastic sheet and begin wrapping and overlapping your center and petal. You will not need to add more glue as you will be working again with pliable clay. Pinch your petals towards the back as a natural flower. (Go out and pick one for your model.) Remember, roses are not all of the same shape or variety of shading. Ripples and even small tears are as attractive as on live flowers. Wrap and pinch until you have a small full rose or bud. Before your rose (or any of these clay flowers) completely dries, carefully remove from toothpick and turn it upside down and gently place tip of pick into flower center. Now, with small scissors, snip off bottom of flower to give it a flat base to glue to surface you are to decorate. (For some flower arrangements or flower trees, this step is unnecessary.) Daisy, poppy, pansy—any 3, 4, or 5-petaled flower (imagination please! ): Make balls of bread clay between your fingers, drop on plastic, and roll and rub ends as you did for leaves and centers, into teardrops, except, do not flatten or press these, but place together all tip ends of teardrops as base of the flower and pinch a little. Using toothpick or other wooden tools, roll carefully each petal out on your finger as flower petal, leaving indentions or ridges as you desire and as thin as you can or, shaped as you want. Bend and curve them a little here and. There to give them a natural look. Centers for these can be very small balls of complimentary colors or a dab of colored clay from one of your glue guns. BREAD CLAY PLAQUES AND FIGURES For making specific designs for plaques and flat figures with a pattern, roll out a portion of the clay between plastic sheets with a small even bottle to about the thickness of pie crust. Place the pattern on the clay and cut around with either a ceramic knife or small very sharp knife. Peel off, and place on prepared plaque or picture. (A burlap covered board, painted and trimmed with cording, gold or silver doilie edging is very attractive.) Choose next color of clay and pattern, roll and cut, placing figure or design together color by color and piece by piece—a little like dressing a paper doll. Tiny fine lines, swirls, and decorations can be made by using the glue gun as you would decorate a cake. Finishing touches, of course, are done when the clay is completely dry, painting faces with tube water colors and a very small, fine brush. For all your creations, flowers, leaves, plaques, dolls, decorative pieces, etc., when completely dry, use a soft brush and apply a coat of glaze. Place on the aluminum foil to dry.