[Vol16 | April 1929 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Elvira Lathrop Fay Ollerton]
Elvira Lathrop By Fay Ollerton Elvira Lathrop did not go back to the store that afternoon before Thanksgiving.

She hurried back and forth in her adobe house with its lean-to, getting the rooms cleaned in preparation for her absence tomorrow.

Alone she still had the stooped gait of a woman whose head had first leaned forward in expectancy, then drooped with resentment, and later grown careless.

She was a spinster in a town of almost unanimously married women, and she had grown to show a surface acceptance in her kindly timid eyes of being the butt of Red Water's jokes on feminism.

The Co-op's superintendent, Hans Nielson, knew that the next day was the yearly gathering of the Lathrop clan, and that Elvira would value the extra time.

He could, she realized, be generous when it did not inconvenience him, and there would be few customers that afternoon; they would be home cleaning turkeys and chickens, baking pumpkin pies, and dusting rooms only opened for great occasions.

"I feel like maybe you would want this afternoon to make a potato cake," he teased, showing his yellow teeth.

She nodded back, pleased in spite of her dislike for the sleek little superintendent.

She did not like his patronizing smile; every time he spoke she felt more poignantly than ever her thin spinsterhood, now growing into its forties; and her fight to retain her self-expression in the little sage-brush town with its red streets and its open contempt for any unwanted woman.

Yet, she was flattered about the potato cake.

His mention showed that the town recognized her supremacy in one line usually dedicated to wearers of the ring.

Every person must have some reason for existing, outside of the mere routine of eating and sleeping, something no matter how small that he feels he can do better than his fellows, that he can use as a barricade against the forces that would level him with the rest of his creatures.

Potato cake was Elvira's weapon in Red Water's battle.

No wedding supper, no pioneer day celebration, canyon outing, or woodhauler's banquet was complete without this cake.

Not another woman in town could compete in the rich, moist brownness and delectable flavor of her masterpiece.

Husbands invariably called for more.

Often they turned to their wives with: 'Why can't you make cake like this?

I wish you'd get Elviry's receipt." And their failure to get the recipe was in no way due to their lack of zeal.
