[Vol16 | April 1929 | Sequence: 06d | Category: Article | Title: The Ugly Duckling]
The Ugly Duckling By Estelle Webb Thomas
I
December 25?or 26?1 a. M.?Just slipped a bath-robe over my night gown to keep from freezing, and a cap over my marcell to keep from spoiling it (the things are expensive), and am sitting up in bed to write till I get sleepy, which time isn't far distant.
Quite an interesting Christmas day for a lone, lorn Ugly Duckling! After my light lunch, I put on my new tan suit, and made a few calls as per schedule. Had several invitations to stay with people, but declined them all as I want to rest and relax this holiday and not be obliged to wear my pleasant expression all the time?too much like school.
When I reached home in the early dusk, I found a funny old creature camped on the front step, who said that she had been over three times, and the last time "jest set down to wait till I did come!" She brought a little note from Mrs. Douglas, next door, saying that she was a good friend, though a recent one, of mother's; and as her son had told her that I was all alone in the house, she had taken the liberty of asking me to dine with them this evening.
Mrs. Douglas proved to be a delightful old lady and put me at my ease at once, especially as the son was not present at first. As she made no reference to our little escapade, I presumed he had not mentioned it. He came in from the street in a few minutes and greeted me pleasantly but formally as the old servant came in to announce dinner.
They are the sort of people who can be entertaining, and still make a guest feel interesting and at his best, too. When dinner was over, Mrs. Douglas begged to be excused, as she invariably retires immediately after dinner, and she "was sure Donovan would do his best to entertain me." I was surprised to see "Donovan" unconcernedly lift the old lady in his arms (I had noticed that she was very lame), and after asking me to excuse him for a moment, walk calmly and easily up the stairs with her.
He was back immediately and suggested that we "step out" as the evening was still young. So we saw "Charlie's Aunt," played by a bunch of High School kids in the H. S. Auditorium. Mr. Douglas suggested a dance afterward?there was one in progress at Daly's Movie Palace, but I felt he had sufficiently atoned for his last evening's faux pas and said I had rather go home. I preferred to walk too, for the night was clear and starry and beautifully white with snow.
Mr. Douglas hesitated after he had said "Good-night," and asked if I wouldn't let him start my fire before he left. I hadn't intended having a fire, but no one will ever know how relieved I was at having someone go in with me and turn on the lights. Goodness knows, I'm not a coward; but there's something about going into a dark, empty house?!
Well, the upshot of it was, that we passed a most interesting hour before the fire, with some of mother's fruit-cake, and my home-smoked cocoa for refreshment. When he finally left we had a good many side-lights on each other's history and felt quite like old friends.
December 27?Had lunch today with Sally Turner, who used to be the class ninny, but who now has me bested by the possession of a cute little house, a set of new furniture, and a husband. This latter appeared to be something she has picked up at a bargain sale?cheap; but she is satisfied, and fairly exuded pity at my unattached state. "You'll never know what happiness is, Daisy," she gushed, "till you have a loving husband and a dear little nest of your own."
I was trying to walk this off when I ran plump into Mr. Douglas, hurrying along with a pre-occupied frown on his brow and a suit-case in his hand. "Why the savage expression?" he asked by way of greeting, though I had not known I was showing my vexation so openly.
"Only an over-dose of the sunny side of life," I replied, trying to look more amiable than I felt.
"Come with me and I'll give you a view of the seamy side," said my new friend, taking my arm and turning me gently about as he spoke, "Only I'm late and in a powerful hurry, as Janet says; so if you don't mind we'll have a walking contest! That is," he added, "unless you have other plans."
I was curious about his "seamy side" of life until he explained that he is a doctor, newly arrived and trying to build up a practice by unfailing interest and promptness. As old Dr. Halley has no financial necessity for work and has become so cross and crotchety that people would almost rather die by themselves than disturb his nights, I foresee a successful future for young Dr. Douglas in our town and told him so. He seemed pleased and told me he had had a chance to take over his father's practice in a large Eastern town at the time of his recent death, but had decided to come west for the sake of his mother's failing health, and sincerely hoped he would be able to make a "go" of it.
The Doctor's mother came too, and while he attended the "flu" patients to whom he had been making daily visits for a week, though there was nothing in it for him but getting a practice established, his mother explained, she descanted on the perfections of her handsome son; much to his discomfiture, I could see, when he caught the drift of her confidences.
Running down presently on the subject of Donovan, she began to ask me a few polite questions. Mother and the professor called, and mother had been in a number of times; but they had been in town only two months, and knew so few people? She asked about my sisters, and my name. "Margaret!" she repeated, when I told her, "Why, that is the name of the girl Donovan is going to marry! Do you hear that, Don? You'll enjoy calling Miss Wallace Margaret, won't you, dear?"
