[Vol50 | March 1963 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
Relief Society President: Henrietta Young. Photographs and Transparencies by Hal Rumel. 199 Pictures for the HomeI Color Photograph by Lorenzo S. Young Zola]. McGhie I Member, General Board of Relief Society 200 aa a good look at your pictures. Are they a constant joy or a jarring disturbance? Pictures are of such importance that they can make or break a room's atmosphere. Therefore, they should be chosen, framed, and hung as attractively as possible. Examine your pictures carefully. Discard those not good for your purpose. Never hang a picture you don't like; put it away fora time. Your taste may change. Good pictures do not go out of style. Key your pictures to your scheme of decoration and display them to best advantage. Don't be ashamed to admit that many pictures declared good are not to your taste and will not fit into your decor. Even your favorite picture cannot survive an inappropriate frame, tasteless surroundings, bad lighting, poor hanging; and yet inexpensive lithographs, arranged with skill, can give life to the whole room. Matting, Mounting, Framing Pictures Mats are placed at the front of a picture to enlarge and enhance its appearance, improve its proportions, or relate it to the room. As a rule, they are 3" wide at top and sides, and 3/2" wide at the bottom. If you aren't sure, cut paper to try. Mats may be white or colored. Mountings are placed behind the picture. General Indications for Various Types of Pictures 1. Original prints in black and white, such as etchings or lithographs, are usually matted in white or cream and framed with glass and narrow mountings of natural or black wood. Gold lines are sometimes added.. Onginal color prints are usually put in proportionately larger mats with wider frames, Glass is always used and simple natural wood frames or painted finishes. 3. Water colors are usually put in proportionately larger mats with wider frames. Glass is always used and simple natural wood frames or painted finishes. 4. Pastels, similar to water colors, are matted only when necessary.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from