[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 166 | Fiction | Stranger at Nazareth — Third Prize Story Sylvia | Probst Young]
[Stranger at Nazareth — Third Prize Story Sylvia Probst Young]

For long moments, there was no sound, and then they heard a footfall. Martha raised her eyes to see a 


 man coming along the path toward them. A tall, well-built, young man, walking slowly as if in meditation, but when he raised his dark eyes Martha gazed in wonder at the face she looked upon. A gentle face it was, a face of wisdom and compassion, not to be forgotten. The stranger spoke softly. "It's a beautiful day to be here," he said. Martha was warmed by his friendliness, and awed by his presence, not knowing why. "We love this little mount," she answered, "and it's so close to home." FE. Nodded, "I shall miss Nazareth when I go." 'There was a note of loneliness in his voice. It was a leading statement and Martha wanted to ask him why he was leaving, but she didn't. Instead, she invited him to sit there with them for a little while. Something about him seemed strangely familar. I've seen him before, she thought, but where and when? Amiably he sat down on the robe beside them, and Martha felt a kind of calming peace in his presence, while Lydia, who made friends with everyone, quickly began talking to the pleasant stranger. "Look," she said, holding up her wooden doll, "this is Jasamine, but she needs a new dress." He took the offered toy in gentle hands, touching it lightly. "How would you like me to make you another like her?" he asked. "Oh, yes!" Lydia clapped her hands as he drew from a pocket in his tunic a piece of wood about the length of the doll, and a little knife in a leather case. 168 With deft fingers he guided the knife through the wood, changing it to a figure with a head and arms and legs. 'The woman and child watched quietly while it seemed that his hands moved almost automatically, his eyes, touched with sadness, seemed to be seeing something far beyond. In a surprisingly short time the doll was finished, beautifully carved, equally as fine featured as the one it had been made to match. Lydia was overjoyed. "Now it needs some clothes," she said, holding it up in her hand. "We shall make them both a tunic tomorrow," Martha promised. Lydia was hungry then, so Martha took the food from the basket, and spread it out before them on the white napkin. Her guest was pleased, and shared the picnic lunch with pleasure. "T can think of nothing better than the fresh honey comb with a barley loaf," he told her. "The honey — is it from your own bees?" "Yes," Martha answered, and then she told him of Lucius, and their flocks and vineyard. "And Lydia," he asked, "does she live with you?" Martha nodded, while her eyes looked searchingly far away. "Her father," she said, "is in the army in Jerusalem, and her mother" — her voice was broken — "is a — leper." The word choked her, and she bowed her head to hide the sudden rush of tears. The young man did not speak, but he laid his gentle hand upon her shoulder, and in that moment a sudden comforting warmth filled Martha's whole being. It was un- believable! She raised her awe-filled eyes to look at him. Who was he with such miraculous power? "Who are you?" she wanted to ask, but her lips refused to speak the question in her heart. E'T, in spite of her wonder, Martha felt that she had known this man as one knows an old friend, and they talked as friends might do, of many things, while Martha marveled at his great wisdom and knowledge. Although years older, she was like the child, and he the teacher, as they talked of prophets and kingdoms and the world and its wonders. Long shadows were falling, and Lydia, tired from play, had fallen asleep, when they rose to go. Martha would have wakened her, but her gentle friend lifted the child in his strong, young arms. "She is light as a feather," he said, "one of God's precious children." Quietly they walked down from the mount, while the sun, a great burning ball of orange, hung low in the western sky. At her home Martha unlatched the door, and the man carried Lydia to the low cot in the dining room. He smiled lovingly at her. "It has been a very pleasant afternoon," he said. "Indeed it has," Martha agreed quickly. "Perhaps we shall see you again another day?" "Another day," he answered, and turned to go, but at the doorway he hesitated, and again Martha felt the tender compassion in his eyes. "Friend," he said, "let not your heart be troubled, for she that is afflicted shall return again to you, STRANGER AT NAZARETH whole and well." Then, turning quietly, he went away. Behind the closed door Martha stood as one shaken, uncomprehending. What manner of man was this who could even promise that a leper would be healed? Who was he? Then Martha's eyes came suddenly to rest on the round oak table and in that moment she knew — the carpenter's Son! He and his father had made her beautifully carved table. No wonder he could carve a doll for Lydia, no wonder she had thought she had seen him before. But why was he endowed with power to comfort and to speak prophetic blessings? Was he some kind of prophet, great and wise? Martha was perplexed, and when Lucius came from the fields for his supper she told him of her experiences with the young stranger. Lucius listened in his gentle, understanding way. Perhaps this man is a great prophet," he told her, "and perhaps you will see him again, Martha, and then you may find out." "I must see him again," she answered softly, "for he has given me peace." Long after the curtains of night were drawn, and Lucius slumbered, Martha lay with open eyes, a plan going through her mind. 'Tomorrow 'Tarza would come to clean, then she would leave Lydia to the servant girl's care and she would go to the carpenter shop to learn more of this amazing man. Before the sun rose next morning, Martha was up and about her tasks, her trip to the carpenter's shop paramount in her mind. She wanted to go early, but Tarza was late in 


 coming, and the sun was already high in the heavens before she could leave. Now she walked hurriedly along the narrow streets as if impelled by some inner urge, her thoughts on her mission and what she might give as reason for her visit. HE carpenter's shop stood next to a quiet street across the town from Martha's home, and as she drew near she could see a woman sitting on a bench beside a fig tree, her head bowed in her hands. It was evident that she was troubled about something. Martha hesitated, feeling like an intruder, but the woman, sensing another's presence, raised her head and Martha saw a face of gentle beauty beneath the dark, sorrowing eyes. "Good morning," she spoke softly. "May I be of service to you?" "Yes, perhaps you can help me. The young man who works in the carpenter shop, I have come seeking him." "You mean Jesus?"' "T did not learn his name, but yesterday my granddaughter and I met him on a mount near our home. I have never met anyone like him before. With the touch of his hand he brought peace to my heart, and promised that my stricken daughter would be made whole again." The other woman smiled knowingly. "Yes," she said, "he could promise that." "I came," Martha explained, "because I had to see him again, to know who he is." "He is not here." 'The answer was spoken with a sorrowing finality. »? 170 "This morning he went away to begin his great mission; I do not know when he will return." "You are his mother?" "Yes, I am his mother. Mary is my name." ARY — there was something different about her, too — something that seemed finer than anything earthly. And, looking at her, Martha saw the same tender compassion in her face that she had seen in the face of her son. "You have come a long way," she told Martha, "rest here and I will bring you a drink." Quickly she crossed to the sundried brick house and_ returned presently with a plate of small cakes and a pitcher of cool water. When she had eaten and drunk, Martha asked again about the other woman's son. "Tell me, you spoke of his great mission. Is he a prophet of God, for surely no ordinary man has such power as he." Mary looked at her long and earnestly. "Yes," she said, "I can read it in your face, you are a believing one. He is more than a prophet; he is the One of whom the prophet foretold, the promised King of Israel." For long moments neither woman spoke, it was as if they were in a holy place. "Tell me all about him," Martha said at length. Then Mary told her of his wondrous birth in Bethlehem, of the flight into Egypt, and of his childhood days in Nazareth. She recalled the time when he had gone with them to the Feast of the Passover in Jerusalem, and how they had found him, a boy of twelve, teaching the great and wise there in the temple. Her eyes lighted tenderly when she spoke of his great love for all of God's little creatures — a lamb, a bird, a bee, and for all of the lovely things that adorned the earth, a tree, a lily, a blade of grass. Like a star, her face glowed when she spoke of his tender concern for STRANGER AT NAZARETH his home and family, the friends he had found. The words sank deep into Martha's heart. Always she would remember this morning, and the wonderful afternoon before — a highlight of her life, never to be forgotten. "Thank you for telling me this," she said as she rose to g0, "I shall see him again, some day." "Yes, someday," the mother answered, "some wonderful day." Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, placed first in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1956, and received the first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1951 and 1961, second prize in 1952, and third prize in 1959. A busv schoolteacher, homemaker, and Church worker, Mrs. Young 1 ls also a creative artist in the literary field. "It is always a thrill to me,' lished in The Relief Society Magazine. Summer when school is out. For Church magazines. ' she writes, "to find a poem or a story of mine pubI write because I love to, but usually in the (I am a fourthgrade teacher. ) My poems have appeared in Utah Sings and in other antholoI have written mostly gies. When I was in the California Mission, I was editor of the mission magazine. As a member of the Church, and a homemaker, my blessings are bountiful. My husband Reid W. Young is a member of the Midvale Stake High Council, and our four sons are active Priesthood workers. In the British Northeast Mission." iia ite oe Petes The eldest, Robert, is now serving as a missionary After the Forest a ]. Roberts ste Doman a tw,' The c pore Senay i = ott lies Not in lush abundance, but in the vast Repose which rests the spirit and the eyes — After bristling landscape, calm at last. Beauty lies in a ring of poppies, Like a brooch on the bosom of the sand — Or in one lily and a single stone Jeweled with a lichen band. 171 a Kiss on Both Cheeks Helen Hinckley Jones HE bus doesn't travel directly from Basle, Switzerland, to Faverois, France. It takes a snake's winding course from village to village. We sat silently — my husband Ivan, my daughter Sammie, and I, as we passed fields as green as spring salad, broken by cleared patches as brown and baked as giant slices of country bread. We were thinking of the DuCloux family, Ivan's relatives who, like their fathers before them, lived in Faverois. From Germany Ivan had written to Monsieur DuCloux that we were expecting to be near Faverois. In Switzerland, he had received a letter from the daughter, Francoise. Monsieur DuCloux was away on business but his wife, his son, and daughter would be happy to greet us. Would we call when we reached 172 Basle? So Ivan had called. "Come early," Madam DuCloux had urged, "in time to eat with us." We had forgotten that in the village dinner is the midday meal. SO now we were on our way to Faverois, half excited, half hesitant. What would we have to talk about with cousins we had never seen? Would they like us or would we be brash intruders? Each mile of the journey reminded us that eastern France and Amertica are different, very different. At nearly every crossroad the bus stopped at a village — a cluster of gray two-storied houses, each house half barn so that people and animals live under one roof. Although it was not yet eight, women were gathered around the central fountain which in days gone by fur _ heavy waists. Nished the whole village with water. _ The women were always chatting and laughing as if life were always a gay thing. Perhaps, since the bus came just twice a day, it was an event in quiet lives, and the housewives had timed their daily shopping _ to be at the bus stop to see who got off and who got on. Some had already purchased long loaves of unwrapped bread. Others clutched string bags stuffed with the brown paper cornucopias that are the grocery bags of European shopkeepers. At every stop people got on or off the bus. There were women in dark dresses to their black-stockinged ankles, with aprons almost as dark, almost as long, tied around their The faces of the women, somehow sad in_ repose, _ came alive with hearty good humor as they fell into noisy conversation with chance friends. There were young girls with clicking high heels, tight skirts above nylon covered knees, and ratted bouffant hair above unlined pretty faces. Young men, riding from one village to work in another, rubbed chafed hands together and joked with each other boisterously — perhaps to attract the attention of the girls. Old men, theumy eyed, clambered on with the _aid of the bus driver and settled with grunts and sighs onto the nearest seats. Sometimes older children, carrying bags of schoolbooks, climbed on, jostling each other and Staring at us with open curiosity. And we wondered about the DuCloux family. Along the road younger children laughed and played on their way to the village school.