[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 218 | Home | Old Fences and Old Memories Annie | Atkin Tanner]
OLD FENCES AND OLD MEMORIES By the time I can remember his fence, it was completely hidden by black currant bushes. Under their thick shade, my sisters and I built playhouses and made pink and red and yellow hollyhock dolls, with green currants pinned on for heads. Here on the hot July days, we lived in a world of imagination and dreamed of castles and kings. As we grew older, the old fence in the front of our home formed a background for our romances. In the square gate posts two tiny brown house wrens built their nests each spring, and softly complained at night when the rusty hinges on the gate squeaked as we said goodnight. The same whining noise also seemed to let our mother know just what time we came home. Romance had such a perfect setting around that old, gray fence. On May nights pink Dorothy Perkins roses flaunted their loveliness, and the clear, yellow moonlight made the blossoming pear tree a thing of shimmering beauty. On the highest branch of this tree, a mockingbird whistled and sang love songs to us, accompanied by the bass croaking of frogs hidden deep in orchard grass. As we said our last goodnight, the orange moonlight filtered through the mulberry leaves, and the rosescented path to the door left a make-believe world to be remembered with tenderness. The old fences are gone. The fierce-looking picket fences with their green gates, the wide, board fences, the sturdy post fences, and red-stone walls, have disappeared into the past, with our memories as their only hope of revival. 219 Janet W. Breeze OLL it! Pat it! Break it! Stretch it! Whether company is coming or it's just another family meal, nowhere can you find a meat or meat product more versatile and economical than hamburger. Every homemaker has her own pet list of hamburger variations. Maybe some of these will help to supplement yours: Quick Stroganoff % c. Butter or substitute % tsp. Pepper 72 ¢. Minced onion % tsp. Paprika 1 lb. Ground beef 1 can cream of mushroom soup, 1 clove garlic, minced undiluted 2 tbsp. Flour 1 c. Commercial sour cream 1% tsp. Salt snipped parsley Sauté onion in butter or substitute until golden. Stir in hamburger, garlic, flour, salt, pepper, paprika, and sauté 5 minutes. Add soup and simmer uncovered for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in sour cream. Sprinkle with parsley and serve over hot, buttered noodles. Makes 4 to 6 servings. Fortified Burgers To one pound ground beef, add % c. Shredded cheddar cheese; % small onion, chopped; 1 medium-sized tomato, chopped; one egg, slightly beaten; and 3 tablespoons wheat germ. Form into patties and sprinkle both sides with seasoned meat tenderizer to seal in juices. Asparagus Sandwich Sandwich cooked asparagus spears or tips between two cooked hamburger patties. Cover top patty with cream of mushroom soup gravy. Goes well with baked potatoes!