[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 188 | General Feature | Editorial; Willis | Earl Spafford]
EDITORIAL Willis Earl Spafford EARTFELT sympathy is extended to President Belle S. Spafford and her family in the death of her husband, Willis Earl Spafford, who passed away unexpectedly Saturday, January 26, 1963, from a heart attack. Brother Spafford was born in Provo, Utah, November 14, 1891, a son of Willis K. And Elizabeth Ann Stubbs Spafford. He was educated in Provo city schools and at Brigham Young University. He served as a missionary for the Church in South Africa. On March 21, 1921, he married Belle Smith in the Salt Lake Temple. A son and a daughter blessed this union, Earl S. Spafford, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Mrs. Mary S. Kemp (Mrs. Clarence W. Kemp) Chicago, Illinois. Also surviving are eight grandsons and a granddaughter. Brother Spafford was former deputy collector for the United States Treasury Department, and was employed in that department for twenty- - seven years. Only those who have been closely associated with Sister Spafford in the years of her presidency can appreciate the support Brother Spafford has been to her in her calling. Faithfully, he has called each week day for 'her, and they have spent the noon hour together. He has subordinated his personal feelings at all times for the furtherance of her calling. He was a modest man, with deep humility and of rare judgment. He was group leader of the high priests of his ward and ministered to them and their needs. He has left a rich heritage of obedience and devotion to the Church to his beloved wife, loving children, and devoted grandchildren whom he delighted to serve. Relief Society sisters throughout the world extend their love and sympathy to their great leader, President Spafford. They remember her at this time with sisterly compassion and pray that she will be comforted and receive strength from the Heavenly Father for the time of earthly parting. 188 Balle S. Spafford, President Mferianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Loutse W. Madsen, Second Counselor The Heritage of Relief Society MS? S of many years have fallen on Nauvoo, and more than a century has passed since a group of faithful and devoted women felt an urgent need to "combine means and efforts" into a pattern of directed enlightenment and service. Their purposes and their desires were reported to the Prophet Joseph Smith. His answer will long be remembered, for the words have been cherished over the generations. ""Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord.... And I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood." The meaning and the spirit of that and subsequent meetings still endure and have spread to many lands — the counsel of the Prophet proclaiming a pathway to "better days" — the day and the time of women's advancement and organized service. In that time in 1842 the yearnings of women for fulfillment were given eternal direction. 'The desires placed in their hearts began a timc of realization. For every woman in every land wishes to develop herself, her gifts, her personality, and to use the brief years of earth life as a time of continual enlightenment; every woman has within her the desire to serve others — to minister unto those in need; and women everywhere ponder in their hearts the meaning of eternity.