[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 192 | Home | Let's Have a Bake Party Mary | S. Kemp]
[Let's Have a Bake Party Mary S. Kemp]
Aenona Crocker At the right: White wool sheath dress, fully lined with sheath lining. Cost $15.00, including pattern. Mrs. Olive Nilson material. Model: After the advantages of learning to sew had been fully explained and _ illustrated, the membership in the courses increased so rapidly that it was difficult to provide the careful instruction needed. Several women reported that their husbands and families had become enthusiastic over the sewing completed in the Relief Society courses, and schoolgirls were proud to wear the skirts and dresses which their mothers had made. Some of the students learned, for the first time, the importance of stitching a hem correctly, sewing on buttons expertly, and making simple alterations. Household clothing _ budgets seemed to be much more ample, and the families of the "'sewing sisters" enjoyed also the advantage of being well dressed. Some women were able to reduce the clothing budget as much as one half or more. It was found that special help in the Cost $5.90, including pattern. Has tie belt of selfselection of fabrics was needed. Instruction in methods of examining different kinds of fabrics to evaluate their quality was given, and the women were advised regarding the proper width of material to buy for economy in cutting a particular pattern. Also, many women found that used clothing could be laundered or dry cleaned and made into new articles. It was pointed out that mill end sales and sales of short lengths often provide bargains in purchasing materials, but the customer should use care in buying large amounts of material, as some _ fabrics deteriorate rapidly, and others must be very carefully stored to prevent moth damage. Some fabrics may become out-dated before the homemaker can find time for sewing them. Each woman was given individual help in selecting her pattern and material before she started her work in the sewing class. 197 INCE most 'of the articles made in the Monument Park Eleventh Ward Relief Society sewing courses were constructed from simple, basic designs, the finding of appropriate patterns was not difficult. Several of the women used the same pattern, and others either drafted or altered _patterns to suit their needs. Many of the patterns were drafted or altered by the instructor.
