[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 162 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

The illustrations in The Relief Society Magazine are so excellent. They add greatly to its beauty. My congratulations to the splendid artist (Dick Scopes). My last two stories were illustrated, and it is amazing how closely the artist captured the likeness I had in mind as I wrote.
—Helen H. Trutton
Walla Walla, Washington

The Magazine has been a delight to me for years. I have been a teacher of theology and literature, and have served as ward Relief Society secretary and president, and now I am teaching literature again, which I thoroughly enjoy. I especially admire the writings of Margery S. Stewart, which have appeared in the Magazine.
—Ruby T. Thomas
Salt Lake City, Utah

I am a convert to the Church, and I do so much enjoy Relief Society and the wonderful Magazine. One of my deepest regrets is that I did not know about this Magazine and did not have it in my home while I was rearing my seven sons and one daughter. I know that if this had been my privilege, I could have done a much better job.
—Mrs. Mary C. Walker
Parma, Idaho

Now that I am in the mission field and occasionally teaching the Relief Society lessons, I have gained a love for the sisterhood and for the Magazine. There is a wonderful group of sisters in the Ayr Branch. We all look forward to Tuesdays. The many poems, stories, and special articles in the Magazine really make it a choice piece of literature. I am so thankful that the Relief Society sisters of the Third Ward, Alpine Stake, in American Fork, Utah, saw fit to send me a subscription to the Magazine. I know many missionaries who wish the members of their wards would be so thoughtful.
—Jeanne Runolfson
Ayr, Ayrshire, Scotland

I am thankful for the privilege and honor of being a Magazine representative. I have now completed my fourth campaign. I love the size of the Magazine, in that it fits so well into my purse. I really appreciate that — in more ways than one. The December Magazine has such a beautiful cover.
—Norma M. ZoBell
Raymond, Alberta
Canada

I always look forward to The Relief Society Magazine. It is most interesting. I think the covers are beautiful, and there is so much to read. Also, I like the pictures of the Singing Mothers.
—Miss Mabel Davis
London, England

I once considered The Relief Society Magazine my very own, but it is no longer true. If my husband sees it first, it disappears until he has read all of the articles of interest to him. If I am lucky, I may discover it and read an article before it disappears again — this time into my seventeen-year-old daughter's room (she has been reading the Magazine for two years). I have another daughter coming up who has been casting eyes on the Magazine.
—Elisabeth Nielson
Olympia, Washington

I find The Relief Society Magazine so uplifting. Yesterday I was feeling very discouraged and downhearted. It was a chilly fall day, and I felt the pressures of winter coming on, with all the accompanying problems. Then my September Magazine arrived with the morning mail. I read it from cover to cover and it gave me such a good feeling. I felt I could face the winter, or almost anything, for that matter. My spirit was renewed, and several of my problems had been resolved by something I had read in the Magazine.
—Irene B. Devoe
Cadillac, Michigan

162
