[Vol50 | March 1963 | Page 230 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]

Temple View Stake (Utah) Relief Society Presents Check to Liahona Branch Front row, sisters standing left to right: Anna G. Allen, Second Counselor, Liahona Branch Relief Society; Loretta Pawiki, First Counselor; Margaret J. Renshaw, President; Edna S. Hewlett, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society. Back row, brethren, left to right: Elder G. Wallace Fox, First Counselor, Liahona Branch; Elder Ralph Williams, President; Elder Maurice J. Taylor, President, 'Temple View Stake. Sister Hewlett reports: "A lovely musical benefit called 'Evening of Many Talents' was given in the Temple View Stake chapel September 24, 1962, for the newly organized Liahona (Indian) Branch Relief Society. In the picture a check for $237 is being presented to Sister Margaret J. Renshaw, President, Liahona Branch Relief Society, by Edna S. Hewlett, President, Temple View Stake Relief Society." Shelley Stake (Idaho) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Stake Quarterly Conference, October 1962 Velma G. Risenmay, President, Shelley Stake Relief Society, stands first at the right on the second row; organist Janeen Harris, first on the right in the front row; chorister Evelyn Hook stands first at the left in the front row. Sister Risenmay reports: "The Shelley Stake Singing Mothers chorus has been honored for several years to present the music for the October Stake Quarterly Conferences. This year the numbers we chose were: "If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments,' 'Still, Still With Thee,' "The Work We're Called to Do,' and 'Love One Another,' with Alene Lyon as soloist, and Afton Cook, Evada Bitter, and Dorothy Christensen as violinists, and Ruth Oler at the organ." Long Beach Stake (California), Sixth Ward Relief Society Makes Pixie Dolls for Their Bazaar Seated, left to right: Zerilda Campbell; Kathleen Abplanalp; Shirley Roost; Marian Roost; Luella Garton; Elizabeth Peterson; Shirley Goodwin, President; Rhoda Patten; Annabell Bigleman; Roberta Pike, Work Director Counselor; Ida McEwan. Standing, left to right: Marian Peterson; Stella Nielson; Jennie Mae Taylor, work meeting leader; Lena Goodlad; Veda Vanfleet; Leola Branson; Sandra Nielson; Joy Peterson; Peggy Rich. Marian Bennett, President, Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Sixth Ward made pixie dolls for their bazaar. They had an opportunity to sell them, and decided to use this activity as a building fund project. Through the work and faith of the sisters, they have been able to give their bishop $1,000 towards their new chapel building. And the orders for the pixie dolls continue to come in. This has been a lot of work, and also a great blessing and satisfaction to the sisters who have given of their time and talents. They have become better acquainted with each other and have had a lot of fun together. The project has strengthened their testimonies and brought them closer to each other." 232 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 233 Zion Park Stake (Utah) Relief Society Honors Active Visiting Teachers Past Eighty Years of Age at Visiting Teacher Convention Left to right: Lettie Whitney, stake visiting teacher message leader; Laura Pulsipher, eighty-one, visiting teacher from Toquerville Ward; Amelia Heaton, eighty-two, Hurricane South Ward; Amelia Sanders, eighty-six, La Verkin Ward; Genevieve H. Gubler, President, Zion Park Stake Relief Society. Sister Gubler reports: "We honored these three lovely sisters for being active visiting teachers at past eighty years of age, still serving. Sister Heaton and Sister Pulsipher achieved a one hundred per cent attendance record at the visiting teacher meeting the past year. Sister Heaton visited every family in her district every month." Lethbridge Stake (Canada), Macleod Ward Quilting Project Seated, left to right: Geraldine Olsen; Grace Agate, work meeting leader; Janana Orr, Work Director Counselor; Luella Gray, President. Back row, standing, left to right: Wada De Ginnus; Jean Richardson; Myrna Hart; Mary Sheffield; Louise Henrie; Fern Duce; Viola Orr. Theodora B. Nelson, President, Lethbridge Stake Relief Society, reports that thirty-six beautiful quilts were made by the sisters of the Macleod Ward, in their successful and rewarding project of supplying their homes with bedding. Northern Mexican Mission, Mission-Wide Relief Society Convention September 1962 Annie R. Call, President, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society, reports that more than sixty sisters attended the convention, including eight district Relief Society presidents, forty branch presidents, and six from the mission board. "These women represented branches from all over Northern Mexico. Our program began at nine and closed at six, but we served three meals, as all came on buses or trains and had to come and leave according to schedules. This meant that many arrived before six in the morning and left at eleven at night. "It was a long day, but with the slides of "A Record Shall Be Kept,' the film "Unto the Least of These,' forty-five minutes of learning how to direct hymns with batons, two excellent 'mixers' which could be used in the opening socials the next week in Relief Societies, general instructions, teaching helps, work-day suggestions and demonstrations, it proved to be a very successful and profitable day. "President Annie R. Call presented general instructions; First Counselor Pauline Redd Burt spoke on work ideas and the presentation of suggestions for socials; Second Counselor Dolores G. De Almaguer presented some teaching helps; Secretary-Treasurer Coleen M. Cox gave some helps for filling out weekly and monthly reports and in the roll call; Afton K. Shreeve, in charge of music, gave some excellent ideas and helps for directing hymns; Apolinar de Reyes talked on the importance of caring for burial clothing. 234 NOTES FROM THE FIELD MARCH 1963 Irish Mission, Irish District Relief Society Seminar, Redhill, Belfast, Northern Ireland, September 8, 1962 Front row, standing in the center, Sandra M. Covey, President, Irish Mission Relief Society, holding the hand of her daughter Cynthia; Mary Brooks, First Counselor, standing next to Sister Covey (in plaid suit); Secretary Myrl Peay stands fourth from the left on the front row; Elder Stephen R. Covey, President of the Irish Mission, stands at the right in the front row. Sister Covey reports: "On the 28th of September we held an all-day Relief Society I Seminar for the primary purpose of presenting an outline and interpretation of this I year's agenda, the program regarding visiting teaching, record keeping, The Relief Society Magazine, bazaars, teacher training, and Relief Society policies, as well as other aspects of our work. We wanted to give the presidents a vision of what can be done if they understand the program and policies and help them to analyze their specific situations and problems and have new ideas and approaches in dealing with them. The presentation was in the form of skits, films, discussions, lectures, and buzz groups. Since learning is always directly correlated to involvement and participation, we tried to structure I the situation so that through this medium of participation all were able actively to take I part, express their opinions, analyze and discuss common problems in. Their districts. "The attitude of the group was marvelous — very spontaneous, and all were eager to participate, teachable, and happy to be able to express their opinions and discuss their problems. We had each branch bring some of their most original and nicest articles from their work meetings and displayed them so the other branches would be able to exchange ideas and patterns. "We know that growth is coming and will come very rapidly, and if we have a strong program to build on, it will be much easier to establish new and strong Relief I Societies. We pray that the Lord will bless us in our efforts. We are thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society program. Already there has been a rapid growth in our mission." 236 SS Saas eo eewe - SINGIN MOTHERS 'TIS ABIDE WITH ME; EVENTIDE—Madsen GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spafford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN.20 Schreiner _ 0..0 00000000 eee.30 m JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach _ 0.0..00..-. 25. LET NOT YOUR SONG END— BT nonsense eects eeesesseeeecee.25 oe.. LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— MME onan. N cen cenecnccnnnnecssenaconencves.20 7 LORD'S PRAYER—Gates.20 i LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte.25 im MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen eee.25 * STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen 220.00 selene eee.22 = UNTO THEE I LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven.22 i VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— BOOTIE. Cncvdnarevecaveccaevervensaceeevs.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. {J On Approval [] Money Enclosed Name nono. Ceeeeeeceees Address City and State Sr ent cms ne tt eh ee Hy NA Ne REE cette i ee mt a ee et et ee I I C] Charge I I t 15 E.