[Vol52 | March | Magazine Page 191 | PDF Page 200]

--- PAGE 191 (PDF page 200) ---
LATTER-DAY SAINT TRAILS ALONG RIVER RIBBLE

We reached the Benbow farm from Ledbury just in time for a picture of the tiny pool where Wilford Woodruff, in 1840, baptized some 500 converts. I stood for a moment in prayer before the house where Willard Richards once took Brigham Young to meet "Brother John." I knew that John Benbow had again provided funds for the Church when he gave his bond for the Prophet Joseph Smith in Carthage, Illinois. In the deepening light, I remembered how Sister Benbow had left these peaceful acres for Nauvoo, Illinois. She died from fever on the banks of the Mississippi River.

The focal point of our journey, Preston, is located thirty miles north of Liverpool, near the mouth of the Ribble, well within the tidal waters of the Irish Sea. My blood tingled when I was led by a devout sister from the chapel where we had attended sacrament meeting, along the path of our earliest missionaries in Preston.

We paused on the bank of the river where the first Latter-day Saint baptisms occurred in England. On the eighth day after the arrival of the elders in Preston, nine converts went into the water. Among them was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who was crippled, and whose husband carried her into the Ribble. Miraculously, after her baptism she walked up the bank on her own two feet.

I saw Pole Street, near the factories of the city, where the Walmsleys lived, and the home of Sister Jane Dawson, where Heber C. Kimball roomed. In this house much important business for the Church was transacted.

From Stoney Gate, we saw the historic "Cock Pit." It is a "commodious" building having circular rows of seats, formerly used as a "sporting" arena.

We walked to Vauxhall Chapel, the scene of Elder Kimball's first sermon in Lancashire. In the market place at the foot of the obelisk (an English-constructed monument), Brother Kimball explained the gospel to Jennetta Richards. This girl, the younger daughter of the independent minister at Walkerfold (some twenty winding miles above Preston), had heard of the healing of Sister Walmsley. Two days after hearing her first sermon Jennetta requested baptism. She was confirmed at the water's edge, and thus became the first to receive this blessing in England. Later, when about to leave in a cart for home, her eyes filled with tears. "Oh, what shall I tell my father?" she asked Elder Kimball.

"Tell him exactly what you have done," he replied, "and ask him to invite me to preach in his chapel."

The Reverend Richards gave the invitation. Sadly for him, more than half of his small parish went over to the Mormons. Walkerfold became the nucleus of many branches.

We drove over Longridge Fell, a long-crested hill and found it brilliant with heather. Here Jennetta walked with Willard Richards to conference at Ribchester. This town, once a Roman fort on the Ribble, still bears the sign of the White Bull Inn, which the elders saw in 1837.

191