[Vol52 | September | Magazine Page 662 | PDF Page 695]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 662 (PDF page 695) ---
SEPTEMBER 1965

I can't sit up in a chair."
"Oh, but you can. The casts come off today."
"Really? Why didn't somebody tell me?"
"You didn't ask. Usually the first thing a patient in a cast asks is, 'how long does this thing have to stay on?' but you haven't asked, so nobody thought to tell you."
"Miss Morgan . . . what will it be like? I mean to have the casts off?"
"Well, for one thing, you will weigh a lot less, and it will be easier for the nurses to make your bed, and we can help you to sit in a chair because with the casts off your legs, your knees will bend. Your back will feel weak where it has been supported by the cast, but you'll feel a lot better."
Tom was smiling. For just a brief moment, he was smiling. Then the old cloud came back to his eyes. "Yeah," he said, "big deal. So I can sit in a chair. Then what?"
"Then you can put the tray across your lap and put your English book on the tray, and . . ."
"Oh, so that's it. You gave David that book to give to me. Well, you can take it back."
"Now, Tom, it's not going to hurt you to just do a little each day. It will help to pass the time away. The exercises start out real easy, see?" she picked the book up and walked towards him.
"Yeah, I know . . . real easy. Well, I can't even do the real easy ones. Now, what does that do to your theory, Miss Morgan?"
Joan pressed her lips together. She felt like shaking Tom. She

felt like shaking him real hard, and she felt like crying. She did neither. She just quietly placed the book back on the bedside table and walked out.
Joan started to walk down the hall toward the nurses' station, but Doctor Desmond and the nurses were still there, so she slipped out the hall door and went down the steps. She was discouraged about Tom, and she was angered at the way all the young nurses made such a fuss over Dean Desmond. What makes me the most angry of all, she thought, is the way he just stands there enjoying it so much. Who does he think he is, anyway? she asked herself. After all, he isn't the only doctor in this hospital . . . but he is the best looking one, she had to admit.

JOAN opened the outside door and felt the warmth of the afternoon sun on her, giving comfort. She hadn't stopped for lunch, and now she was too upset to be hungry. David was watering the roses by the south entrance. She went over to him. "This part of your job, too?" she asked him.
"Oh, I do a little bit of everything. Have you talked to Tom?"
"Yes. He isn't interested. He makes me so angry."
"I know. When I was there, he told me I was just wasting my time. Said he'd never be able to pass the entrance exams. I told him that's what I was there for, to help him."
"Oh, David, there has to be something we can do."
"Maybe he's worried about money for college. He didn't say so, but I bet his mother doesn't have much money, what with be-

662
