[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 788 | PDF Page 825]

--- PAGE 788 (PDF page 825) ---
SOCIAL SCIENCE—Teaching the Gospel in the Home

Alberta H. Christensen

Lesson 1 (No. 13 in Series)
Priesthood in the Life of Every Latter-day Saint Woman

For Third Meeting, January 1966

Objective: To show how the Latter-day Saint woman shares
in the blessings of the Priesthood.

INTRODUCTION TO 1966 LESSONS

In January 1965 the "Teaching the Gospel in the Home" lessons were introduced as a course of study designed to correlate with lessons being studied by Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. Lesson 1 also stated that the lessons supported the Home Teaching Program of the Church. It was felt that through this course and this correlation, the Latter-day Saint woman would understand more clearly her role as wife and mother and would be encouraged to support her husband in his spiritual leadership of the family.

It was hoped that through this correlation of lessons, the roles of the father and the mother would be more clearly understood; that parents would work unitedly in teaching the principles of the gospel to their children and would strive earnestly to bring a fulness of the gospel into their home.

An understanding of the roles of father and of mother requires a consideration of the various relationships of the family—husband to wife, parents to children, children to children. Some obligations of each member of the family, and of the family as a unit to the Church and to the community were discussed in the lessons.

The social science lessons for 1966 will continue to correlate with those being studied by the Melchizedek Priesthood quorums. They will represent, in general, the woman's position in relation to some of the subjects with which they correlate.

Relief Society sisters will be in an advantageous position in the first lesson, which deals with the Priesthood, having recently completed a well-prepared and well-written course on the nature and function of Priesthood as an instrument for Church government. They are, therefore, generally familiar with the operation of Priesthood as the "power of God delegated to man by which man can act in the earth for the salvation of the human family, in the name of the Father and the

788