[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 76 | PDF Page 77]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 76 (PDF page 77) ---
JANUARY 1965

a successful cooperative project. No one knows when calamity may strike or when he will need the cooperative effort of his quorum to help him solve his problem.

Working in the Welfare Program, when physically able, removes any possibility of stigma that is sometimes attached to other systems of providing help to the needy. The man or woman who willingly works on the project can receive the blessings of his efforts in materials essential to his well-being. The person who works and does not need has the joy of knowing that his efforts have made it possible to relieve the suffering of his brother or sister.

OPERATION OF THE WELFARE PROGRAM

In the above discussion, stress has been placed on the attitude of the members toward the Welfare Program. After all, in Church work people are the main concern. In fact they, the people, constitute the Church, and the government of the Church is the Priesthood in action through worthy members of the Church.

In order to get a clearer picture of the Welfare Program and its function, we will examine briefly two aspects of this important organization. First, we will summarize the means of production of welfare commodities. This involves all of the means of producing the commodities needed to fill the welfare budget of the Church. Second, and of even more importance, we will examine the means of distribution of making the product available in the right place at the right time.

Each aspect has required great vision, careful planning, and the dedication of leaders and lay members alike, to make possible the realization of the objectives of the plan insofar as this has been achieved.

It is true that production cannot be fully understood apart from distribution, a quick look at the means of producing the tremendous welfare budget will give meaning to the method of making the materials available to the bishops to meet the needs of their people.

1. Production

Every ward and stake has been advised and urged to secure means of producing in quantity the commodities their area can most naturally supply. They are encouraged to purchase farms, to produce hay and grain, to acquire cattle, to set up dairies, develop meat-producing projects, or factories for processing food, or making clothing. In fact, they are encouraged to develop all kinds of projects that will contribute to the budget requirements as recommended by the General Church Welfare Committee.

The Church is set up into welfare regions. Each region is composed of a number of stakes. They are organized on the basis of geographical location and the commodities they are best prepared to produce. The wards and stakes are encouraged to develop projects that can best fit into the budget assignment of the region to which they belong. The productive power of the Welfare Program, in terms of farms, canneries, or industries, has made a remarkable growth in the twenty-eight years since it was organized.

76
