[Vol52 | July | Magazine Page 554 | PDF Page 579]

--- PAGE 554 (PDF page 579) ---
JULY 1965

They are the lords and owners of their faces,
Others but stewards of their excellence.
The summer's flower is to the summer sweet,
Though to itself it only live and die,
But if that flower with base infection meet,
The basest weed outbraves his dignity:
For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

First, Shakespeare describes that kind of man who, by force of personality and strength of convictions, stands high above ordinary people—a tower of strength influencing others but himself not swayed by the petty whims and fancies In his might he has power to hurt others but will not. He soars above the common weaknesses and is as stone to the temptations that destroy lesser men. Such a man rightly is to be looked on as having heavenly powers and displaying humanity's best qualities. Such a man is also rightly to be honored and followed.

But what if this great leader fails? No one, not even the mightiest, is absolutely beyond temptation. Little people are capable of accomplishing a little good or committing a little evil. Strong people are capable of accomplishing a great good or committing a terrible evil. And the fall of a strong man is awful to behold. If a little person deceives or embezzles or is immoral, this is bad enough; but if a great leader deceives or embezzles or is immoral, calamity engulfs the whole community.

For sweetest things turn sourest by their deeds;
Lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.

This is the essence of tragedy—a basically good and great man crumbling to ruin, with his world crumbling around him, in consequence of some flaw in his own character to which he succumbs.

The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. Probably the greatest of the four selections covered in this lesson is "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner," by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (English poet and critic, 1772-1834). The poem is printed in full with lengthy comments not only on the poem itself but also on Coleridge's life and other works on pp. 304-328 of the text.

"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is Coleridge's masterpiece, and one of the major poems of world literature. Like many great works, it can be read in different ways and admired by different levels of readers. It can be read as an exciting adventure story about an old sailor and his sort of hoodooed voyage from his home in Europe southward through the Pacific Ocean, and finally back to his home, with a variety of startling and suspense-filled incidents along the way. Or it can be read more nearly as an aesthetic experience, with the reader responding to the rich and varied artistry of the work. Or it can be read as a vision of good and evil, the two forces locked in endless conflict, with special attention to the inescapable consequences of an immoral act. And these are only three ways of reading the poem.

Considered as a work of art, "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is unquestionably one of the great and finished poems of the world. (For a discussion of its artistry the reader is referred to pp.

554