[Vol52 | July | Magazine Page 516 | PDF Page 541]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 516 (PDF page 541) ---
Gleanings
From the
Summer

Nancy M. Armstrong

WHO FINDS ENCHANTMENT?

Life displays its enchantment only for those who keep a light in their eyes and hope in their hearts. Life's magic is only for those who face the winds—even the furies—with courage.

SELF-PORTRAIT

We each paint the canvas of our own life. How we paint, will affect, for good or ill, the lives of those who view the picture. Are we painting with bold, true, clean-cut brush strokes? Or does our picture lack conviction? Are our colors warm, vibrant, harmonious? Or are they cold, inert, confused? Have we placed the major, lasting values in relief and made the minor, trivial ones mere shadows? Or is our picture out of balance?

No life-portrait is perfect. Let's retouch the canvas now, before it dries, to bring it nearer our desired goal of perfection.

TIME BRINGS AWARENESS

Because it takes time to gain awareness of the manifold blessings of life, and to realize that the poverty and riches of life are within us, age augments life's values far beyond compensation for lost youth.

SO MUCH FOR SO LITTLE

Noticing there was unused seed in the cup when I cleaned my parakeet's cage, I began throwing it in the back yard for the birds. When snow arrived, I put a board I could easily sweep off near the door and added extra seed and bread to the diet.

When I go out each morning, no birds are in our tree, nor can I see any nearby, yet the door will scarcely be closed before a colorful variety arrives to reward me. No longer is dishwashing a prosaic task. Through the window while I work, I watch birds happily pecking, hopping, flying; hear their gay chattering; sense their gratitude for my small deed of thoughtfulness.

Often our smallest kindness is manifoldly rewarded. If, in no other way, we are rewarded by a feeling of well-being. Longfellow expressed the idea beautifully in Evangeline, "That which the fountain sends forth returns again to the fountain."

516
