[Vol52 | March | Magazine Page 189 | PDF Page 198]

--- PAGE 189 (PDF page 198) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Dr. Helen Brooke Taussig is the new head of the American Heart Association, the first woman executive head of this organization in the forty years of its existence. Dr. Taussig retired last year after forty-three years as physician-in-charge of the Cardiac Clinic of the Harriet Lane Home of Johns Hopkins Hospital. In July 1964, she received the Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award which the United States bestows in peacetime. Her citation reads in part: "Physician, psychologist, embryologist, her fundamental concepts have made possible the modern surgery of the heart which enables countless children to lead productive lives."

Wanda Landowska, the Polish artist of the harpsichord, has been memorialized in the book Landowska on Music (edited and translated by Denise Restout and Robert Hawkins, Stein and Day Press), published in January 1965. Landowska, who died five years ago, achieved "shadings and majestic effects seemingly impossible on her instrument, and no one could equal her in bringing to independent life Bach's intertwined melodies." She has left a legacy of unparalleled recordings, and comments on these are included in the book, with "articles, scoldings, commentaries, and pensees," which present much instruction and inspiration for musicians and lovers of music.

Ten women were elected to Congress in the United States election, November 3, 1964. Nine incumbents retained their seats: Francis P. Bolton (Ohio); Charlotte T. Reid (Illinois); Catharine May (Washington); Florence P. Dwyer (New Jersey); Leonor Sullivan (Missouri); Edna Kelly (New York); Edith Green (Oregon); Julia Butler Hansen (Washington); Martha Griffiths (Michigan). A newcomer to Congress is Patsy Mink who represents Hawaii, the first woman of Oriental ancestry to serve in Congress.

Mrs. Amada Davis Orton, San Diego, California, is one of the few women who have ever driven a stagecoach. As a young girl in Tooele County, Utah, she drove the stagecoach for her father, David E. Davis, whose contract covered the route from Vernon to Faust, and back again. In a recent interview, Mrs. Orton, now eighty-three years old, summarized her unique adventure: "My father was a cripple who had lost one leg in an accident. That never bothered his driving, but that barley spear in the eye did. I had to drive for him. I drove two big fine horses and never had any trouble, although I had to go through Skull Valley." Mrs. Orton was a schoolteacher for many years and then practiced nursing. She still works as a nurse, saying, "I go when they need me. That is my reason for carrying on."

189