[Vol52 | May | Magazine Page 369 | PDF Page 386]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 369 (PDF page 386) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

"Oh, no," her mother protested. "That is not at all likely. He is doing very well in his work. He has even bought a car from a young man who was returning to America."

Maria started to play the organ and Elsa said no more. What was the use, anyway? She couldn't convince her mother. She would have to show Karl herself that she hadn't come back mainly to try and capture him.

AFTER church her mother said to Karl, "Perhaps you will bring Elsa in your car. The rest of us can squeeze in with Frederick."

"With pleasure," he replied. "I shall be delayed here for a few minutes on some affairs for the branch. You will not mind the wait?" he asked Elsa.

She started to say that, as long as they had managed to squeeze in to come to church, she thought they could probably get back the same way. But some of her friends claimed her attention to welcome her back home, and by the time she was free again the family had driven away. There was nothing to do now but wait, unless she started out to walk, and that would be much too obvious.

When Karl was finally through, he hurried over and said, "I am so sorry to keep you waiting. There is always some little matter that needs attention. The branch is growing fast—as I suppose you noticed."

"I did indeed. So fast that I am beginning to wonder if I needed to come back, after all."

"Was that the only reason you came?" he asked, giving her a quizzical look.

She blushed faintly. "That was the main reason. At least, so I thought. Of course, there were some others."

"I hope so," he said simply, taking her arm and leading her to the car.

At the house they found a very happy group. Mother Breinholt had prepared the Sunday dinner that Elsa remembered best. Not elaborate, since most of it had been done the day before, but substantial and very good.

Uncle Frederick at once set about finding out all he could of Karl's work, both at his business and in the branch. Then he began telling him how much better he could do in America. "We have a fine farm—all our own," he said. "Our boys have all been to universities and have professions. If they had lived here it would have been just ordinary jobs."

"Not so," interrupted Aunt Edith. "Our boys would have done well anywhere."

"Indeed, yes!" added Sister Breinholt sharply. "Anyone with ambition can do just as well here as anywhere. You forget that Germany isn't what it was forty years ago. Why do you suppose that Elsa came back again?"

Before he could answer, and perhaps add to her embarrassment, Elsa quickly replied, "Because I felt that my place was here. It was not a matter of making money. Although, even at that I am not at all sure but what I could do just as well here as in America."

"Ja, ja!" exclaimed Uncle Frederick with a chuckle. "So we will let you young people stay right here. I will say no more."

369
