[Vol52 | November | Magazine Page 830 | PDF Page 871]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 830 (PDF page 871) ---
NOVEMBER 1965

The fleece-gray clouds had hidden the star. From town, she could hear the chimes playing beloved Christmas carols. Beautiful! But, there were some her parents had loved which one seldom heart: "Star of the East," "The Holy City."

She had been polishing her piano—a baby grand, for which she had saved for years—and now she laid the cloth down, wiped her hands on a clean polishing rag, and ran her hands across the keys. Soon the well-loved chords were filling the room: "Star of the East, O Bethlehem Star; guiding us on from heaven afar."

She was singing the words, though she had sung little lately. She had forgotten that her door to the hall was slightly ajar (with the safety chain latched), so she could listen for a package which was to be delivered. After all, tomorrow night was Christmas Eve. No matter when the others were celebrating, being of Scandinavian descent, she would have her celebration Christmas Eve.

She was brought back to reality by a quick rap at the door. "Yes," she called, rising, thinking it would be the delivery boy. Yet, when she reached the door she was surprised to see Barbara standing there. An older man, graying, handsome, was beside her.

"This is my father," the girl said swiftly, "I wanted him to meet you. He was about to postpone the meeting till he heard you singing."

"Not much singing, I'm afraid my mind was a long way off."

Then, she added, quickly, "But,

do come in. I'm really glad to meet you, Mr. Hall. Barbara has spoken so much of you."

He smiled. "Her letters are full of you, Miss Larsen. I wanted to tell you how much I appreciate your looking out for her. Being alone . . . and so far away . . . it isn't always easy."

"Why, it's nothing. I wish I could do more."

She wished she knew how to get Charlie Smoot and Barbara to know each other better.

BARBARA smiled, "You do too much. She's really wonderful, Dad."

He nodded. "And that tune you were playing. . . . Why, I haven't heard it in years. My mother used to play it on our old-fashioned organ. That and 'Red Wing,' and . . . and . . . 'Home,' 'The Holy City'? I was just thinking of that."

"Oh, yes. Yes, indeed. You don't hear them anymore. You hear 'Jingle Bells,' 'Reindeer,' all that stuff."

Annie laughed, and he looked at her seriously, asking, "Would you, perhaps, be kind enough to play it again . . . And sing it? We just got the end."

"If you'll sing with me."

"Well now. All right. But remember, you asked for it."

She sat down again and began to play. His surprising tenor started on the first notes, and she joined in. Barbara hummed. Another knock at the door startled and stopped them. She shrugged, "I'm sorry."

This time, it was the package. But the moment had been spoiled. He said, "Oh, we really mustn't detain you. Perhaps

830
