[Vol52 | April | Magazine Page 273 | PDF Page 286]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 273 (PDF page 286) ---
How Acceptance of the Gospel Brings Joy Into Our Lives

Anne S. W. Gould

THE gospel brings joy into our lives because we learn to love people. We realize we are all brothers and sisters, children of the Heavenly Father, all learning our lessons in the school of life.

To love people we must have patience and tolerance. It is easy to love people you know love you, but it is hard, sometimes, to love or even like some people with whom we come in contact. We should see all people as God's spirit children, for each one is dear to the Heavenly Father. Then how can we be impatient or critical?

A Chinese proverb says, "Draw a veil over your neighbor's faults, and think of his virtues." If you can't see any virtues, think of your own faults, he may not see any virtue in you either.

Our Lord Jesus Christ said in John's gospel, "A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another. . . . By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. . . . (John 13:34-35). These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full" (John 15:11).

In accepting the gospel in its fulness, we forget our small selves in trying to bring happiness to those around us. We learn to serve and to be helpful in many ways, which, in turn, help us to overcome selfishness and faults.

Often we fail, but if it is the great desire of our life, we are helped by the Holy Spirit and as we try, so our joy is.

"Seek and Ye Shall Find"

Clara Horne Park

HOW can we become master of ourselves unless we read the scriptures? In them we have eternal life. In them we can discover glorious truths and hopes of a greater life worthy of striving for, worthy of obtaining, and necessary to our salvation as children of God.

In the book of James we read: "But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits; without partiality, and without hypocrisy.

"And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace, of them that make peace" (James 3:17-18).

"Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up" (Ibid., 4:10).

How great is God and how wondrous are his works!

As sisters of Relief Society and daughters of our Father in heaven, we seek for wisdom, peace, good fruits, and humility. We gain strength by reading his word.

273
