[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 11 | PDF Page 12]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 11 (PDF page 12) ---
PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

in the upbuilding and guidance of the youth, but none of these — great and important factors as they are in the lives of youth — can supplant the permanence and the influence of the parents in the home (Pathways to Happiness, page 118).

President Joseph F. Smith said:

Another great and important duty devolving upon this people is to teach their children, from their cradle until they become men and women, every principle of the gospel, and endeavor, so far as lies in the power of the parents, to instil into their hearts a love for God, the truth, virtue, honesty, honor and integrity to everything that is good. That is important for all men and women who stand at the head of a family in the household of faith. Teach your children the love of God, teach them to love the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Teach them to love their fellowmen, and especially to love their fellow members in the Church that they be true to their fellowship with the people of God. Teach them to honor the Priesthood, to honor the authority that God has bestowed upon his Church for the proper government of his Church (Gospel Doctrine, pp 292-293).

And here is another quotation from President McKay:

No matter what they may be without, are your homes pure within? Are morning prayers offered there regularly? Or do the things of this world take you away from your home and make you deprive yourself of morning prayers with the children? Woe to that home where the mother abandons her holy mission or neglects the divine instruction, influence, and example — while she bows, a devotee, at the shrine of social pleasure; or neglects the essential duties in her own household, in her enthusiasm to promote public reform (Gospel Ideals, page 481).

Now that is well pointed, and I hope all our mothers can get the message. Then he added: "God has placed upon you parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children."

Finally, this quotation from President Brigham Young:

If you mothers will live your religion, then in the love and fear of God teach your children constantly and thoroughly in the way of life and salvation, training them up in the way they would go, when they are old they will not depart from it (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 206).

The Home Teaching Program

Now this coming Saturday night, President McKay has directed that the theme of the general Priesthood meeting will be a program, announced Church-wide, on teaching of the gospel in the home.

In this there will be defined the beginning of the program which will be initiated beginning January 1, 1965, in which the Relief Society organization will play a very vital part. Now, one of the questions that is frequently asked, and upon which there seems to be some confusion, is with reference to the visiting teacher program of the Relief Society, which is thought, in some cases, to conflict with the Home Teaching Program. Now, may I say to you that in all our discussions as a Correlation Committee we have never thought to give direction or instruction that the Home Teaching Program should discontinue the visiting teaching program of the Relief Society. But the visiting teacher program now has an objective that is a little different and beyond an auxiliary to the Home Teaching Program.

11
