[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 106 | PDF Page 110]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 106 (PDF page 110) ---
Notes to the Field

[ILLUSTRATION: Woman at desk writing]

Copies of the 1964 index for The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1964 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101. (See advertisement on page 156.) The Deseret News Press includes a copy of the index at no extra charge for each set of Magazines bound.

HEART FUND DOLLARS
— A HOPE FOR BETTER LIFE
The American Heart Association

[ILLUSTRATION: Heart symbol with torch]

World-wide efforts are being made to conquer the Number One Cause of Death, Heart and Circulatory Diseases. In many countries, associations and scientific groups operate on a voluntary basis to carry out programs of research, professional and public education, and community service for the millions of people afflicted by heart disease.

Thanks to the generosity of people in all walks of life, educational materials for free distribution to the public are prepared by the American Heart Association and its affiliates in every state of the United States.

There is great hope for prevention and treatment of heart diseases through research and education. Wives and mothers are made aware of the problems created by rheumatic fever and inborn heart defects among children; how heart attacks and strokes may afflict the breadwinners of their families; and how the other cardiovascular diseases also create critical health and economic problems in countless homes.

"For Advice About Your Heart, Ask Your Doctor; For Information, Ask Your Heart Association." This is the theme wherever there is a Heart Association.

Literature available on request covers almost all heart and circulatory diseases: heart attack, stroke, rheumatic fever, high blood pressure, diet and heart disease, smoking and heart disease, congenital heart defects, heart murmurs, varicose veins, and many others.

Millions of people support the heart fund by giving both time and money for its life-saving programs.

Heart Fund dollars give hope for life.

105
