[Vol52 | May | Magazine Page 351 | PDF Page 368]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 351 (PDF page 368) ---
ABIDE WITH ME

They all needed shoes. The rent was a few days later every month. A light bill and a water bill lay on her dresser, unpaid. A tight knot of desperation was growing in her stomach.

She had to find some better way—and quickly. Was Bob Evans' offer the answer?

KAREN sat, pondering and troubled, until the sky began to grow light. Finally she stood up, folded the blanket and then wrapped it around her like a shawl, and, going to the front door, stepped out to see if the fresh day held any promise.

She did not notice, as she usually did, where the screen had pulled loose from the door. she didn't see the broken adobe fence, nor the pile of tumbleweeds against the vacant house across the street. Her eyes looked on, beyond, where the trees stood, bare limbed, against a red-cloud sky. A wind blew, sharp against her face. A bird flew down across the fire clouds. She turned back into the house, a little healed.

It was the Sabbath Day. When Jim was with her, they used to feed the babies early and drive fifty miles over to Beecroft where there was a Mormon Sunday School. Afterward, they would eat hamburgers at the drive-in, and both the children would go to sleep on the way home. Now Sunday was spent without any Church service.

As Karen dressed Susie and the baby in their play clothes, she thought of Sunday morning when she was a child.

When she was eight, she had had a lavender check dress with a white organdy collar. She remembered the dress as part of a tingling clean and shiny feeling. Outside the sun was warm; inside the organ played. Her father sat up on the stand, and when she caught his eye, he smiled at her.

What would happen if she called up the branch president in Beecroft, and said, "President Rogers, I'm not a member of your branch, but I belong to the Church and I need help!"

What would happen if she called Bob Evans and said, "I've been thinking about that job you offered me, at the club. Drive me over to Beecroft, to the Church tonight, and, maybe, after that I can give you my answer."

What if she called Alice Hunt. The Hunts were Mormons. They had no children, so instead of trying to make Sunday School, they drove to Beecroft for sacrament meeting in the evening. Several times, after Jim's death, they had asked Karen to go with them, but the babies were awfully little to be out so late. She had declined. But now she could call Alice!

As they got out of the Hunt car in Beecroft that evening, the sky was clouded over and the wind whipped up a blinding dust. The wind tore at Karen's dress and at the baby's blanket. Dust filled her eyes and its taste was in her mouth. Susie clung to her mother's skirts and cried.

Just before they reached the chapel door the first great drops of rain came down, gathering the dust as they descended, and spattering it in round mud splats on Karen's shoulders and Susie's dress.

Tears came to Karen's eyes. Even the rain came differently

351
