[Vol52 | November | Magazine Page 829 | PDF Page 870]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 829 (PDF page 870) ---
Star Light, Star Bright

Christie Lund Coles

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman looking at a Christmas tree by a window, with a snowy scene visible outside]

■ Annie's polishing cloth was stopped in mid-air as her hand paused in its work. She saw the first star prick the sky like a small, perfectly cut diamond. She saw it glisten in its appointed place and whispered, "Star light, star bright, first star I've seen tonight. I wish I may, I wish I might, have the wish I wish tonight," as she had done for as long as she could remember.

She hesitated before she made her wish. There wasn't much she could wish for. She had so much. This apartment house—not large—on which she made some money, and had company in the building; she had her job at the music store half a day; health; friends, food, and warmth. What more could she ask?

She had wished for a companion, someone to love her. But, she supposed she was too old for that now. Love had missed her. She was fifty. These other things must take its place. The only man she had ever cared for had been killed in an automobile accident. Her years had been spent taking care of "Mama," until she died, and playing the piano in church, and in the piano store.

Her main interest now was in her tenants. They were nice people. Fine. Barbara, the tall, dark-eyed girl from California going to school, too shy to make many friends though she was a delight when one knew her. Charlie Smoot, a bachelor, on the quiet side, too, though tall and good-looking; Mrs. Ames, a divorcee, and her five-year-old son; Grandma Lunt who tended the little boy while his mother worked; and Mr. and Mrs. Purdee who both worked and always seemed to have no problems.

She loved them all. They were her family. She found herself wishing, "Let everyone in the apartment have the merriest Christmas ever." Not that that could come quite true, because the merriest was when you were a child and everything was touched with wonder. Youth was an eternal Christmas, untouched as the snow which was beginning to fall softly outside.

829
