[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 92 | PDF Page 96]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 92 (PDF page 96) ---
THE GUIDANCE OF THE HOLY SPIRIT

the importance of the gift of the Holy Ghost. Each of us was directed to receive that gift when we were confirmed members of the Church. Properly cultivated and developed, this gift is of inestimable value.

The Holy Ghost is a revelator. ". . . he will guide you into all truth . . ." (John 16:13). He will bring all things to our remembrance and show us things to come. He will enlighten our minds, quicken our understandings, and increase our intelligence.

I can think of no aid to parents in the training of children equal to the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Among his gifts are faith, discernment, knowledge, judgment, and wisdom. The fruit of the Holy Spirit includes virtue, diligence, humility, hope, patience, kindness, charity, love, composure, peace, godliness, and joy.

As we contemplate the virtue of these gifts and fruits, let me, by the way of caution, emphasize the fact that there is nothing spectacular, magical, or fanatical about the working of these gifts. Under their influence one behaves perfectly normally. They do not excite. They calm and comfort. Their influence is as natural and refreshing as a gentle breeze.

"The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof," said Jesus to Nicodemus, "but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit" (John 3:8).

The following lines of Parley P. Pratt suggest to my mind at least what I'm trying to convey

to you concerning the nature and influence of the Holy Spirit.

As the dew from heaven distilling
Gently on the grass descends
And revives it. . . .

But I suppose there is no point in my trying to explain further the influence of that Spirit. Only you who have had your souls enveloped by the influence of the Holy Spirit can realize the joy and peace of conscience it affords.

Now, how is one to come by these precious gifts and fruits? The Lord has said, "the Spirit shall be given unto you by the prayer of faith . . ." (D&C 42:14).

Seek the guidance of the Holy Spirit, sisters. Seek it by faith and by prayer, by study, and by righteous living. Learn what the scriptures say about it, including, particularly, the teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Develop a desire for it. Live worthy of it and cultivate its companionship. Take it for your guide. If you do so, your rewards will be eternal; for when the Savior comes in his glory and the parable of the ten virgins is fulfilled,

. . . they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived . . . shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day.

And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong, and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation.

For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their lawgiver (D&C 45:57-59).

That we may all, with our children, abide that great day, I humbly pray.

91
