[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 725 | PDF Page 762]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 725 (PDF page 762) ---
THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE

commandments; they all move in perfect harmony in their sphere, and order, and are as lights, wonders and signs unto us . . . upon the same principle . . . baptism is a sign ordained of God, for the believer in Christ to take upon himself in order to enter into the Kingdom of God, for except ye are born of water, and of the spirit ye cannot enter into the Kingdom of God, saith the Savior . . . Baptism is a sign to God, to angels, and to heaven that we will do the will of God.⁵

The Extent and Reality of the Sign

In the same interview which Adam, the earthly father of the human family, had with the Lord, following the banishment of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden because of their transgression, he had been told by the Lord that their transgression that had invoked temporal death was forgiven, "the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"⁶ but as to redemption, or reconciliation from spiritual death concerned with the individual and personal transgression of Adam and Eve and all of their earth-life natural descendants, the Lord gave "another law and commandment,"⁷ to be absorbed by themselves and to be taught freely unto their children. This other law and commandment involved the principles of faith and repentance, and the ordinance, or sign, of baptism by water and of the Spirit. Here is the commandment:

That by reason of transgression cometh the fall, which fall bringeth death, and inasmuch as ye were born into the world by water, and blood, and the spirit, which I have made, and so became of dust a living soul, even so ye must be born again into the

kingdom of heaven, of water, and of the Spirit, and be cleansed by blood, even the blood of mine Only Begotten; that ye might be sanctified from all sin, and enjoy the words of eternal life in this world, and eternal life in the world to come, even immortal glory.⁸

Concerning the Use of Water and Complete Immersion

Needless to say, within the ranks of Christendom there are many modes of baptism, and many concepts of the use of water. But in the restored Church of Jesus Christ, by virtue of divine instruction on the matter, there are no mutations of that mode and use of water that was revealed in the beginning unto Adam our earthly father. The actual baptism of Adam is the pattern for all mankind, and the words of counsel and instruction given him at the time by the Lord, are significant to the importance of this symbolic method, of "new birth" unto reconciliation with God.

And now, behold, I say unto you: This is the plan of salvation unto all men, through the blood of mine Only Begotten, who shall come in the Meridian of time.

And behold, all things have their likeness, and all things are created and made to bear record of me, both things which are temporal, and things which are spiritual; things which are in the heavens above, and things which are on the earth, and things which are in the earth, and things which are under the earth, both above and beneath: all things bear record of me.

And it came to pass, when the Lord had spoken with Adam, our father, that Adam cried unto the Lord, and he was caught away by the Spirit of the Lord, and was carried down into the water, and was laid under the water, and was brought forth out of the water.⁹

⁵Times and Seasons, Vol. 3, pp. 751-752.
⁶Moses 6:54.
⁷Ibid. 6:56.
⁸Ibid. 6:59.
⁹Moses 6:62-64.

725
