[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 728 | PDF Page 765]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 728 (PDF page 765) ---
OCTOBER 1965

water . . . lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God [the Holy Ghost],²² descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: And lo a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."²³ (Italics added.)

The Firstborn Son of God had covenanted and promised in the pre-mortal councils that he would come to earth to redeem mankind, but, then, when he possessed the body of a man, and was himself subject to physical death and also capable of committing sin, it was necessary, being in the flesh, to rise above all things, and, while in possession of a mortal body which could be susceptible to the enticings of the Evil One, for him, through the eternal law of baptism, to reaffirm his premortal covenant. Because of this, God the Father was pleased; and then he, too, affirmed the mission of the Lord, his Beloved Son.

Lucifer Seeks to Take Advantage

There appears to be no question in the evil mind of Lucifer, the arch enemy of the chosen Firstborn and Beloved Son of God the Father, that the conditions of mortality into which the Lord had been placed, made him liable to sin and disobedience, but to neither of which did he yield. Nevertheless, Lucifer, the devil, pressed what he thought was an advantage, to cause the chosen Son of God to deviate from his assigned mission, and thus frustrate the design of God in the earth-life purpose of

man. But the Lord, the Firstborn in the Spirit and Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, met every attempt of Lucifer to deceive and destroy him.²⁴ Being the prince of the world, he offered Jesus all of the kingdoms and glory of the earth if he would but worship him. The Lord's denunciation was final, "Get thee hence Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve."²⁵

The Still Small Voice of the Holy Ghost

The influence and power of the Holy Ghost came to a responsive and worthy Adam after baptism; this same power and influence came to a divine and sinless Christ, who sought guidance and influence as it emanated from God the Father; and this same pattern is for all of the sons and daughters of God, who shall be obedient to it, "to fulfill all righteousness." It is a power that intercedes in the mind of the inner man, with all of its administrative force; it is, then, for the physical mind through restraint and obedience to it, to become at one mind with the inner man.

The Holy Ghost, as we have learned, is a personage of spirit, the same as the Firstborn Son of God was, in singular form, before birth into mortality. The image of the Holy Ghost is the same as of the Father and the Son. The brother of Jared saw the spirit person of Christ the Lord before his mortal birth; the body of Christ's spirit was the same in stature, image, and size as that of a man, for man was created spiritually and physically, after that same image.²⁶

²²Luke 3:22.
²³Matthew 3:16-17.
²⁴See Matthew 4:1-7; see also Moses 1:12-22.
²⁵Ibid. 4:8-10.
²⁶See Ether 3:14-16.

728
