[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 69 | PDF Page 70]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 69 (PDF page 70) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

of the Savior "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me" (John 5:39).

In this day of skepticism and material interests, there are some to whom one memory of their youth is a cherished heritage — evenings at home, with father or mother reading from the scriptures, the children listening attentively. Surely a return to this practice will be an enriching experience for today's child, who has a challenging and doubting world to meet.

THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Is a reading of the scriptures one of your unrealized objectives?

2. What schedule adjustment would you need to make were you Sister A?

3. What schedule adjustment would you consider feasible, were you Sister B?

4. What schedule adjustment would you suggest for a mother with several very young children?

5. Is one more likely to carry out an activity if she makes a written or verbal commitment than if she merely makes a mental resolve? Discuss.

6. Am I a doer of the word or a believer, only?

LITERATURE The Individual and Human Values
         As Seen Through Literature

Dr. Bruce B. Clark

Lesson 7 — Exploring Right and Wrong Attitudes Through Literature — Part III
                                For Third Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To show how literature exposes the waste of self-righteousness and hypocrisy, and affirms the worth of genuine righteousness and sincerity.

THE lesson for this month is closely related in purpose to the one for last month. Again we explore several significant selections to see how literature exposes evil and defends goodness. However, whereas last month we studied four short stories, this month we examine five poems; and whereas last month the focus was on selfishness in relation to unselfishness, this month the focus is on self-righteousness and hypocrisy in relation to genuine righteousness and sincerity.

Obviously these are very broad subjects. Thousands of works, great and small, have touched upon them, and the five short selections we are examining are more

69
