[Vol52 | April | Magazine Page 276 | PDF Page 289]

--- PAGE 276 (PDF page 289) ---
APRIL 1965

owner of the voice, a pig-tailed little person of four years, appeared around the corner of the house, furiously pedaling a battered red tricycle.

"Hi, Grandma Olsen," she called.

"Hello, Cindy," said Grandma Olsen. Cindy belonged to Bert and Louise McCafferty next door, but she lived at Grandma's house as much as her mother would allow and called her "Grandma," as everyone else in the neighborhood did.

"What are you doing?" she asked, skidding to a squeaky stop by the bench under the apple tree.

"Just resting," said Grandma.

"Why?"

"I'm a little out of breath."

"Why?"

"I've been raking my yard all morning."

"Why?"

Cindy's agile mind suddenly changed directions, thus saving Grandma from further explanations.

"Guess what?" said Cindy, her blue eyes sparkling. "You know my old cat, Siam? Well, he had kittens. Four of them."

"You mean she had kittens," said Grandma.

"Who did?" Cindy asked.

"Your cat. Siam must be a lady cat."

"No," said Cindy, "he's just a mama cat. And you know what? I know a great big secret. Want to know?"

"I certainly do."

"Cross your heart you won't tell?"

GRANDMA OLSEN drew an X over her heart. Cindy scrambled from her trike and pulled the gray head down close to her own bright blonde one.

"We're going to get a brand new baby soon. My mama told me," Cindy whispered.

"Well, what do you know about that?"

"About what?" asked Cindy.

Grandma laughed helplessly. She was glad when Cindy's active mind was distracted again.

"Look," Cindy said, pointing across the street. "Sister Parker is digging for angleworms."

"I think she's planting flowers," said Grandma.

"Why?" asked Cindy. "I'd rather dig for worms." She leaned over and poked a finger into the grass and then jumped up again. "May I have a drink of water?"

"Surely. Run in and get one."

Funny, smiled Grandma, Cindy unfailingly had to have a drink of water when she came to visit. She thought the water at Grandma's house tasted better than it did at her own home.

Grandma watched the sturdy little girl skip up the back steps and into the neat kitchen. Maybe that's the matter with me, she thought. Here I am thinking that the grass is greener on the other side of the fence, so to speak. I'm envying Edith Parker when I should be grateful that I've had such a good life. A wonderful life, as a matter of fact. Happy. Healthy. Six lovely children. A good, kind husband who never had a sick day in his life until the heart attack took him so swiftly away eight years ago. They had worked hard to rear their children in the right way, and now she could look back on a job well done. Her sons had both

276