[Vol52 | September | Magazine Page 663 | PDF Page 696]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 663 (PDF page 696) ---
RING AROUND HER HEART

ing a widow and all those kids."
"Oh, David! I'll bet that's it. Why didn't I think of that? He naturally wouldn't say anything. He wouldn't want us to know. Well, we can fix that in a hurry. There should be some kind of a scholarship or grant or something we can get for him. Oh, David, for the first time, I feel as though we've come through the woods."

Joan hurried inside. As she left the elevator, she almost bumped into Kathy.

"Well, where are you going in such a hurry?"

"Oh, Kathy, I think David and I have made some progress with Tom. He seemed interested in going to school, but then all of a sudden he changed. David says he thinks Tom cooled off because of his family's finances . . . so I am going to find out about. . . ."

"Joan, I wish you were right, but. . . . Oh, Joan, money has nothing to do with Tom's attitude. His father left a trust fund for his education. There is plenty of money for his schooling."

"There is money? Then why?"

"Could be that he just wants you to leave him alone, as he keeps telling you."

"Kathy, I can't quit. I just know there's a way to get him back on that farm."

"Well, your persistence is to be admired. Only, you are asking for a lot of heartache. What about your theory not to become too attached to your patients?"

Joan couldn't answer that one. She hadn't felt as though she were becoming too attached to Tom, not until Kathy mentioned it. Now she could see that it was true.

Joan was on her way to the second floor when she remembered that Doctor Niles had wanted to see her. She wondered what he wanted. She smiled to herself as she remembered what Dean had said, about obeying hospital regulations. She knew she didn't have to worry about that, still, maybe she had slipped up on something, she thought.

She tapped at his door, and there was no answer. She turned to go when she saw him walking toward her. A strange feeling came over her. He's so looking masc, she thought. If only he wasn't so brisk and all for business.

"Hello, Miss Morgan. Let's go inside. I have some things. . . ."

"I hope I haven't been neglecting my work, Doctor Niles."

"On the contrary. Here, sit here. I just have some applications I want you to look over. We need two or three new nurses. There are never enough nurses. . . . You are doing a fine job, Miss Morgan."

DOCTOR Niles looked at her and his gaze held hers. She felt as if he wanted to say something more, but he didn't. She took the papers he handed to her.

"Are these applications recent?" she asked.

"Yes, I think you should look them over and give me the names of three or four you think sound the best."

"I will, Doctor Niles." She took the papers and stood up.

"Oh, Miss Morgan, have you just been in Tom's room. I hadn't seen him for a couple of days. What have you done to that boy?"

"What have . . . ." She looked

663
