[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 39 | PDF Page 40]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 39 (PDF page 40) ---
WAIT UP FOR ME, JENNY

down the stairs. "Good morning, Mom," she said. "Did Dad get an early start?"

"It was past seven when he left," said the older woman. "I hated to see him leave so close to Christmas. It's up to you to trim the tree, dear. And then there's Amy! We'll have to get her Christmas ready, too. How are we going to get everything done?" Jenny looked at her daughter, as she ate her breakfast. Cool, lovely, and tailored looking in her girlish school clothes, Sharen ate toast and jelly and sipped her milk with apparent enjoyment.

"Don't worry about everyone, Mother," said Sharon. "Christmas has a way of coming right to your door on Christmas Eve. I'll help Amy."

Jenny felt relief, but with neighbors on each side of her, who needed Christmas brought to them, it did worry Jenny.

JENNY had gone over to Amy's house soon after Sharen left for school. She found Amy struggling with a screaming infant who wanted his bottle in a hurry. Amy was white and sick looking as she tried to make the formula.

"Now you get back on the bed," said Jenny. "You can't do these things yet. I should have come over earlier." Jenny took over, and with all the needs to be met, she was busy in the small household until afternoon.

"I'll be back over later," said Jenny as Amy lay resting on the couch. "I think you look better than I've seen you for weeks."

"I couldn't help but get better with a neighbor like you, and the way you're taking care of me," said Amy.

Jenny went home and met Mr. Smith coming along the driveway. He had come to borrow a wrench with which to fix a water tap.

"I'm almost ready for the folks," he said, a broad smile shining on his weathered face. "I have a big turkey in the icebox, six pies, and a fruit cake. I've put just about everything I could think of in the freezer, too. I hope I haven't forgotten anything."

"Cranberries?" asked Jenny. Mr. Smith snapped his fingers.

"I did forget cranberries," he said. "What's turkey without cranberries?"

"And candy and nuts for the children's stockings?" Jenny filled in.

"Oh, I thought of that," smiled Mr. Smith. "And did you see my wreath on the door, Mrs. Pearson?"

"It's beautiful," said Jenny. "Simply beautiful." Jenny watched Mr. Smith hurry away. She was sure his Christmas would be just that — simply beautiful.

IT was early morning on the day of Christmas Eve, when Jenny heard the rustle of the curtains in her bedroom, and the whining of the wind as the branches of the bare trees lashed against the house. Storm! It always meant a hard storm when the wind blew like that from the east. She got up hastily and shut the windows.

"It just can't storm now. It's Christmas Eve," said Jenny complainingly, as she passed Sharon's door, the fine snowflakes already dancing in the wind.

"Let it snow," said Sharon

39
