[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 18 | PDF Page 19]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 18 (PDF page 19) ---
JANUARY 1965

as they ought to be; but if they provide for you, they are kind to you, and otherwise treat you right, stay with them.

I think it has been taught by some that as we lay our bodies down, they will so rise again in the resurrection with all the impediments and imperfections that they had here; and that if a wife does not love her husband in this state she cannot love him in the next. This is not so. Those who attain to the blessings of the first or celestial resurrection will be more and holy, and perfect in body. Every man and woman who reaches to this unspeakable attainment will be as beautiful as the angels that surround the throne of God. If you can, by faithfulness in this life, obtain the right to come up in the morning of the resurrection, you need entertain no fears that the wife will be dissatisfied with her husband or the husband with the wife; for those of the first resurrection will be free from sin and from the consequences and power of sin. This body is "sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption; it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power; it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body." "And as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly" (Journal of Discourses 10, page 24).

Now, let me close with an illustration. Sister Rae and I were back at the time of the Singing Mothers on the East Coast, when they put on that remarkable presentation, as President Tanner told you yesterday, that resulted in a tremendous publicity all over the country. They left hundreds and hundreds of children, with husbands, we hope, to be attended somewhere and cared for while the mothers were gone. There came up at the close of that meeting a lovely singer, who sang one of the solo parts. She had been a convert of only

18

a year or two before, and she had been singing with the Metropolitan Opera Company. But she said she recalled that I had been back to the stake conference where she lived, and we had talked about temple marriage while there, and her husband was a professor in a university back there. Despite all her efforts to try to get him interested he just pulled away, wanted to have nothing to do with it. Furthermore he was urging her to go his way into activities contrary to the standards of the Church.

"Well," I suppose I laid a pretty heavy hand on the small percentage of temple marriages, and on those who were not working up towards a sealing in the temple. This sister came up as the conference closed, and asked me, "What am I going to do about it?"

She told me just a bit about her home situation, and she reminded me. It shocked me when I heard her say it. (I can think how it shocked her when I said it.) She said, "You said, in answer to my question 'Well, I don't understand that the Lord ever expected a woman to follow her husband to hell!'" And so, stiffened by that rather stern and, perhaps a bit crude, perhaps inspired, comment, she thought, "This is ever the time to strike," so she went home to her husband. (He had been in that session, by the way.)

She didn't tell us the whole story of what may have happened and what he said back to her. She left that to our imagination, but then, as the tears came rolling down her cheeks, she said, "Today is our
