[Vol52 | July | Magazine Page 519 | PDF Page 544]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 519 (PDF page 544) ---
garden. The water is cold and sparkling and good. So different from the treated water we were used to in the city. An electric pump delivers it into the house.

Outdoors beckons every day. I walk through the meadow helping my husband move the cows from one pasture to another, or I go into the grove for an armful of wood, or down to the garden to water or hoe. I thrill to the feel of the wind, the rain, and the sun. My wanderlust feet take me along the creek and I see the water dimple where a small fish snatches a bug from the surface.

I stop to eat a handful of serviceberries, remembering from reading history that these berries supplied nourishment for the Indians and early pioneers. Wild fruits and flowers flourish along the fence line, the creek, and through the meadow. As I walk I find little bluebells, thistles with purple pom-poms, wild geraniums, larkspurs, poppies, and daisies. Mushrooms grow from a vivid red color to a startling white.

It is here that I saw my first fairy ring. It was just a few days after a rain. From the house I could see the luminous white circle down where the meadow dips the lowest. It was early evening. The sun had just set. I climbed over the corral fence and fairly flew down the slope. There they were, phosphorescent mushrooms, making a mystical fairy ring in the dark grass.

One night when the air was warm and still, I looked out our window to see hungry red flames leaping up behind the trees the other side of our grain field. "It is all right," my husband said. "The neighbors are burning brush." We drove over to their ranch to watch the roaring blaze. Where else, but in the open country could a fire a quarter of a mile long be a spectacle of beauty instead of a tragedy?

There isn't a great deal of wild life on the ranch. There were deer tracks across the summer fallow one morning. We see an occasional pheasant in the field, and ducks stop briefly in the little pools along the creek. Squirrels chatter in the trees and crows hold conventions in the grove and the meadow. Once in awhile we see a skunk scurrying for cover.

Away from the city lights, we have re-discovered what a show the night sky has to offer. Once more we enjoy the brilliance of stars and moon and the lightning when there is a storm. Night skies in the city are pale above the street lights and flashing neon signs. The only lights we see here at night, aside from those in the heavens, are the distant mellow lights from our neighbors' homes that reach out across our meadow like a warm handclasp.

Farm folks are friendly. Our neighbors run in with a little jar of chokecherry jelly or a picking of beans. They help us harvest our hay and grain, and doctor a calf when trouble comes.

The ranch women in our neighborhood milk cows, run the hay baler, and drive tractor. They can

[ILLUSTRATION: Simple line drawing showing mushrooms arranged in a curved line, depicting a fairy ring]

DON'T FEEL SORRY FOR ME

519
