[Vol52 | March | Magazine Page 190 | PDF Page 199]

--- PAGE 190 (PDF page 199) ---
Latter-day Saint Trails Along the River Ribble in Northern England

Claire Noall

TRANSPARENCIES BY THE AUTHOR

"OH, my . . . will you look at that!" I exclaimed, as Matthew and I drove along the foot of Pendle Hill in the valley of the River Ribble, Lancashire, England. Against rain blue clouds hanging low over the hill, and against vivid green slopes, great patches of purple heather heralded the glory I had come to find. The hill dominates the river just before it bends northward into Yorkshire. I had come to see the cities and villages of the earliest Latter-day Saint mission in foreign lands and to bring to life, for myself, the work of the elders who labored in Preston and the surrounding area under the leadership of Heber C. Kimball, in 1837.

The group of missionaries, which included Elders Orson Hyde, Willard Richards, Joseph Fielding, and others, arrived in Liverpool three days after Queen Victoria had become ruler of the British Empire. The first Latter-day Saint sermon in the British Isles was delivered by Heber C. Kimball on the Sabbath, July 23, 1837, in Preston, Lancashire. These brethren established the Church in Northern England so strongly that today the saints of this area comprise many staunch centers of devotion and activity.*

Before we reached the valley of the River Ribble we had enjoyed a glorious drive from Southern England as my husband and I moved through the pages of history from Stonehenge, to our own period of time. We had seen St. Ives and Lynton, villages on the Bristol Channel, from which Matthew's paternal grandparents had emigrated to Utah. We had visited Southwark Cathedral, where two of my great-grandparents were married.

In London, we recalled the hardships of Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball on his second mission in 1840. We knew how they had tried to publish The Book of Mormon there. But a real joy coursed through my veins when we later visited the John Benbow farm in the Malvern Hills near Ledbury, about a hundred and twenty miles south of Preston. From the faithful convert, John Benbow, Brigham Young obtained the funds which made possible the printing of the Book of Mormon in England.

*See Nibley, Preston: The British Mission, The Relief Society Magazine, April 1956, p. 218
Whitney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, pp. 113-204

190