[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 75 | PDF Page 76]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 75 (PDF page 76) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

cerned, but permanent benefit so far as his spiritual welfare is involved. That is all there is to it (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Addresses, page 26).

PRACTICAL RELIGION

In a previous lesson, we have attempted to establish the important idea that in God's teachings to man there is no separation between temporal and spiritual things. President Joseph F. Smith says, "It is the purpose of God in restoring the gospel and the holy Priesthood, not only to benefit mankind spiritually, but also to benefit them temporally" (Gospel Doctrine, 1956 edition, page 209). This doctrine develops the idea that our work, our play, our study, or our participation in the activity of the Church should be governed by the same set of values. The teachings go even farther and assume that each person who belongs to the Church is actively interested in the spiritual and economic welfare of each and every other member of the organization. It is important that one should be concerned about the conditions of his neighbors. Calamity may strike anyone of us at any time, but if we develop the idea of mutual aid, then there is an insurance against the day of misfortune. In President McKay's talk in a special welfare meeting held on April 5, 1949, he said, "Truly the man was right who said, 'The race of mankind would perish if they ceased to aid each other . . . we cannot exist without mutual help. All, therefore, that need aid have a right to ask it from their fellow mortals; no one who holds the power of granting can refuse it without guilt.'"

COOPERATION ESSENTIAL TO ONENESS

During the time of President Brigham Young's leadership, the Church won its survival by mutual aid and cooperation. President Young stated:

I say that they who are opposed to co-operation are opposed to heaven, to their own welfare, to the welfare of their neighbors, nay, and to everything that is good. The least thought or act of an individual who is or can be called a Saint, that militates against oneness of feeling and action amongst the Saints is opposed to everything that is heavenly and good. . . . If we are not one, we are not the Lord's. We can not do his will, nor be his disciples unless we are one . . . (Journal of Discourses, 16:65).

The Welfare Program provides the ideal vehicle for a practical expression of the above-stated philosophy. Every member of the Church can participate in the program either in production, preservation, or distribution of foods or materials. It is the fact that everyone can and should participate that makes the program so important.

THE MEANING OF BROTHERHOOD

People from every occupation and from every family in the Church can work together with a feeling that the Welfare Program belongs to them and the benefits are available for everyone who is in need. The person in need works side by side with the man in affluent circumstances. Both have a pride in the success of the project. The one in need can have the blessing of the work opportunity, while the other person feels a security and confidence in the continuance of

75
