[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 77 | PDF Page 78]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 77 (PDF page 78) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

2. Distribution

There are two important parts of this heading; the first, how much is needed to meet the demands of all the wards in the Church; and, second, who is going to distribute the commodities? The two parts must be discussed together to have proper meaning.

The production of the welfare budget is, in reality, a miracle of cooperation. A budget is set up each year based on the actual usage of the previous year. Every bishop reports what he has used in assisting his members and on the basis of the past year's estimate, his need for the coming year.

Budget making in the Welfare Program is a perpetual thing. While the bishop is using one budget, another one is being produced, and a third one is being estimated.

The various regions of the Welfare Program produce as much of their own budget as possible, but, in their speciality, they produce a surplus which is available to the rest of the Church.

After the commodities have been produced, who actually gets them into the hands of those in need? This service demonstrates a very real function of the Church organization. The Welfare Program does not require a new set of officers to fulfill its function, but it requires a careful organization of officers whom the Lord set up in the beginning.

The heart of the care of the needy and the center of the distribution of commodities is in the hands of the bishop. He is the father of the ward and has a personal interest in every member. Support and assistance come from the Relief Society. The president of the Relief Society is a true social worker. Going into the homes of the needy, sick, and afflicted, under the direction of the bishop, after he has made a visit, she makes a realistic and practical study of the needs and the abilities of the family. This study becomes one basis for the help that the family will receive.

The Priesthood in each ward is organized to assist in the welfare of the members. The ward welfare committee includes the ward Priesthood executive committee (consisting of the bishopric, the high priest group leader, the seventies president or group leader, the elders president or group leader, the general secretary of the Aaronic Priesthood over twenty-one, and the general secretary of the Aaronic Priesthood under twenty-one), the Relief Society presidency and a ward clerk. This committee meets and reports the conditions of the ward membership as to sickness, unemployment, or any other conditions that would impair the spiritual, temporal, or intellectual well-being of the members of the ward. This committee is to see to it that suffering in any family of the Church membership is alleviated.

Through the bishop's order on the storehouse (usually one warehouse in each welfare region), the physical needs of the worthy members can be met. The bishop's storehouse has the commodities prepared by the many welfare projects throughout the Church and stored in this storehouse according to the budget needs of the bishops in the region.

Today, the functioning of the Priesthood through home teachers could meet the needs of mem-

77
