[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 12 | PDF Page 13]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 86% | Novel words: 7%]

--- PAGE 12 (PDF page 13) ---
JANUARY 1965

Now, for example, as I attempted to think this through, the work that you use in connection with your Relief Society work, is that of the "compassionate service" side of Relief Society. That is contemplated in every visit in the home of the Relief Society visiting teachers. Now, in that visitation there may be such things as homemaking instructions, where you see a loosely knit home and poorly kept by a mother who doesn't understand — this might be the golden opportunity for the Relief Society to inject its instruction in that compassionate way. Watchful attention to the needs of the sick and the infirm is encompassed in the visit of the visiting teacher, and the keeping of Relief Society presidents apprised of temporal, as well as spiritual needs, also. Now, as I thought of that, I remembered something I read a year or so ago. A general from Europe had just returned from an assignment over there, where he had witnessed the terrible devastation of those great cities in Southern and Western Europe. Someone had asked him a question that followed his talk as to what he thought the greatest needs in Europe were. And he gave three words: "They need food, fuel, and faith," and then he added, "Without the latter, the first two are useless; and without the first two, the third is impossible."

THAT is a true statement. Those of us who work, Brother Romney and I and you Relief Society presidents, close to the Welfare Program, can tell that when a home is shattered because

of the needs of food and shelter and of clothing and fuel, the first thing we have to do is to build a sense of security, a sense of material well-being, before we can begin to lift the family to the plane where we can instil in them, faith. That is the beginning, but unless we have the objective of what we do to the building of faith, the mere giving of material aid fails. Now, we must understand that, if we just try to build faith without first filling their stomachs and seeing that they are properly clothed and properly housed and properly warmed, perhaps we will fail in the building of faith.

Relationship of Relief Society to the Home Teaching Program

Now, in order to give to the sisters a perspective of this responsibility which is coming to them, I would like first to introduce that by showing the relationship which the Relief Society should have with the Home Teachers. I am talking now of the Priesthood Home Teachers. We have had some confusion, as you can understand, when a new program is announced, there is always some lack of comprehension in the beginning of any new program or plan.

We try to explain with the best vocabulary we have, which is sometimes very limited; and then, unfortunately, the people who listen have a worse vocabulary to listen with than we have to talk with; and with that limited equipment we try to get across a few ideas.

I have often said to the brethren that the all-important thing is not what we say at a stake

12
