[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 36 | PDF Page 37]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 36 (PDF page 37) ---
Notes to the Field

Bound Volumes of 1964 Magazines

Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1964 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84101 (See advertisement in this issue of the Magazine.) The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $3.25, leather $5.25, including the index. A limited number of 1964 Magazines are available at the offices of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, for $2 for twelve issues. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1964 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries.

THE 1965 MARCH OF DIMES

George P. Voss
Vice President for Public Relations
The National Foundation

The 1965 March of Dimes campaign which opens January 2 is dedicated to the fight against birth defects. Each year more than 250,000 of our children are born with serious birth defects. In numbers alone, the problem of birth defects is much greater than polio ever was. More complex, too, since birth defects have many causes and take many forms.

Even so, research can lead us toward prevention of many of these defects. Highest quality medical care can often help children already born, crippled in mind and body.

The success of the work of The National Foundation March of Dimes has always depended on a partnership between the public and scientists. Scientists in many laboratories and hospitals are seeking the diverse and elusive causes of birth defects. What's more, the public is growing more concerned about this problem. One in every ten American families experiences the suffering caused by the birth of a seriously defective child. So many of these babies die. So many are disfigured or crippled for life. So many are clouded in mind.

This is a tragedy. It must be stopped. You can help by giving to the March of Dimes to support research and treatment.

FIGHT BIRTH DEFECTS — JOIN THE MARCH OF DIMES

36
