[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 63 | PDF Page 64]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 63 (PDF page 64) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

ridge — the Presiding Bishop. It would be that bishop's duty in future, under the law of consecration, to "arrange by lot the inheritances of the Saints." (D&C 57:7, 15; 58:14, 17; 85:7.) Furthermore, that bishop would have to be called in the Lord's way, and not as men might wish to make their own rules. The order of calling Priesthood officers was established early in the dispensation. With the restoration of the Priesthood, it was stated that authority is necessary to call men into the Lord's service. Before this, Hyrum Smith was told that he was not to preach the gospel until he had been called. (Ibid., 11:15.) In the revelation on organizing the Church, Priesthood officers were to be appointed and ordained. (Ibid., 20:2-3, 38-39, 60.) Moreover, they were to be approved by a vote of the Church in appointed meetings. (Verses 61-65.) These steps are necessary to receive the approval of the Lord: (1) a call by revelation or authority; (2) approval of the members of the Church; and (3) an ordination by one who has the authority. These steps were indicated later, as noted above, to validate the call of the President of the Church. (Ibid., 28:2-7; 43:2-4.) The Presiding Bishop as all officers in the Church, is no exception as witnessed by the instruction concerning the appointment of Bishop Edward Partridge:

And again, I have called my servant Edward Partridge; and I give a commandment, that he should be appointed by the voice of the church, and ordained a bishop unto the church, to leave his merchandise and to spend all his time in the labors of the church;

To see to all things as it shall be appointed unto him in my laws in the day that I shall give them (Ibid., 41:9-10). [Italics by writer.]

Future bishops unto the Church will receive their appointment in the same manner. The Lord declares that there can be no exception.

Pretenders to Church office or to the rights and privileges of the Church have arisen and will probably continue to arise occasionally; therefore, it behooves Latter-day Saints to be aware of the foregoing keys against deception. In concluding their message on this revelation (Section 85), President Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors wrote in 1907:

... we would say that the Latter-day Saints by this time, should be so well settled in the conviction that God has established his Church in the earth for the last time, to remain, and no more to be thrown down, or destroyed; and that God's house is a house of order, of law, of regularity, that erratic disturbers of that order of men ... ought not to have any influence with them, nor ought the Saints to be disturbed in their spirit by such characters and their theories. The Church of Christ is with the Saints. It has committed to it the law of God for its own government and perpetuation. It possesses every means for the correction of every wrong or abuse or error which may from time to time arise, and that without anarchy, or even revolution; it can do it by process of evolution — by development, by an increase of knowledge, wisdom, patience and charity (Improvement Era 10:942).

NO INHERITANCES FOR SOME

The remaining verses of Section 85 re-affirm, with emphasis, that the unfaithful members of the Church not having their names recorded in the book of the law will not obtain an inheri-

63
