[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 15 | PDF Page 16]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 15 (PDF page 16) ---
PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

or where the Home Teachers have not fully sensed that they need a specialist's work in order to enlist some members of the family who are not now active?

Teaching the Gospel in the Home

With that in mind, Sister Spafford told you that there will be given to you now a lesson once a month in the Relief Society. I have before me the first lesson which they have proposed in this series, the teaching of which will commence the first of the year. I am going to read you one or two paragraphs, which can say this better than I do, to give you the perspective:

In order to cooperate fully with this program, the Latter-day Saint mother must understand the place of the family in the divine "scheme of things." She must strive to establish the kind of relationship among family members that will be favorable to an acceptance of this gospel-teaching program. She should realize that her attitude will be an important influence for good or a deterrent to the progress of the work, and she, herself, must become more informed as to the principles of the restored gospel. The purpose of these Relief Society lessons is, therefore, to help the mother become an effective instrument with her husband in teaching the gospel to the family.

How often, in past years, have you heard a Latter-day Saint mother say, "I wish my husband could have heard the discussion today. Had he done so, I am sure he would feel differently about a particular problem we have in our home." It is a realistic observation that with widely divergent points of view, the efforts of one parent often may nullify the efforts of the other parent, sometimes with great detriment to the persons involved and to the problem which needs to be resolved.

The correlation of these lessons with those being studied by the Priesthood quorums can be of great value, since it will bring to both parents an awareness of their joint responsibility to teach their children the fundamentals of the gospel. In fact, it is hoped that through a mutual understanding of this responsibility, Latter-day Saint parents will work unitedly to meet this teaching challenge, and that they will strive earnestly to bring a fullness of the blessings of the gospel into their homes.

And then they summarize with these important instructions:

To assist parents in carrying out the responsibility given them by the Lord, the leaders of the Church through inspiration have developed the home program, which is a Priesthood administrative responsibility.

The Family Home Evening Program will involve every member of the Church, for its fundamental concern is that every Church member be more fully instructed in Church doctrine. "Therefore, every family unit, however composed, should participate in the instruction program." Couples without children, a single person living alone, roommates, as well as families, can all benefit from the newly instituted program. The lessons will include material adapted to the particular needs of special types of families, where such adaptation is necessary. An instruction period, similar to that planned for the family night, is to be held.

In addition to the gospel lessons, the manual gives suggestions for family activities which should set a general climate for the home throughout the month.

Then they conclude with this:

Each year the lessons in the Family Home Evening Program manual will consider fundamental principles of the gospel, and they will deal with four universal concerns of the Latter-day Saints. The emphasis will be placed upon application of the truths

15
