[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 7 | PDF Page 8]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 7 (PDF page 8) ---
Place of Mothers
in the Plan of
Teaching the Gospel in the Home

Elder Harold B. Lee
Of the Council of the Twelve

[Address Delivered in Presidencies Department, Relief Society
Annual General Conference, October 1, 1964]

You might be interested to know the nature of the meeting from which Elder Romney and I have just come. We have done as apparently the worthies of another dispensation did. "They went to the House of the Lord and took sweet counsel together," the scriptures say. We have done that since nine o'clock this morning. Having come fasting, we have engaged in the holiest order of prayer; we have witnessed a rich outpouring; and I think in the language of the scriptures, "we have to take sweet counsel together." It is just one of those meetings that brings us nigh to heaven in a place and at a time when we need so much of the blessings of the Almighty.

When Brother John A. Widtsoe was alive, he used to tell us of a meeting he held at a stake conference, where they asked how long it had been since the Church had received a revelation. He stroked his chin thoughtfully and said, "Oh, probably since last Thursday." And that startled them — to realize that here and now, week by week — he knew as Elder Romney and I know — we see evidences of constant, divine guidance. Today we bear that witness to you sisters, that there has been a real outpouring of spiritual light and truth.

I am glad that this body of sisters is constituted as you are, as the presidencies, the leaders, of the Relief Society organizations of the stakes and mission districts. More and more, I think, we will come to the time where we must, as General Authorities and general board members, instruct the leaders of the stakes and the missions, and then expect you to be so well schooled that you are prepared and able to move down to the next level of authority in the wards and branches and so instruct them that they are then prepared to instruct the people.

Today, you will receive instructions regarding the Correlating Program, about which Sister Spafford in her excellent message which she delivered so ably yesterday, spoke to you. Therefore, what I shall say will be in several different categories.

7
