[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 109 | PDF Page 113]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 109 (PDF page 113) ---
FEBRUARY 1965

"It's your anniversary for one thing, isn't it?"

Lydia walked over to the window before speaking. "Yes, it is. But as I said, John's very busy."

"Surely he won't be that busy — this being your anniversary and all," Freda commented. "I'll see you later. I really must run along."

Lydia followed her to the door and watched her hurry down the street. Even Freda remembered it was their wedding anniversary. If John would only take a second to say, "Happy Anniversary," that would be enough. Then she would know that he hadn't forgotten.

"Mommy, I peeked in the oven and the valentines must be cooked," Lavina called out.

"Oh, dear, I almost forgot them," she said, hurrying to the kitchen and opening the oven. "Lucky you remembered them, Lavina."

"I'll take them off the sheet, Mother, if you'll finish my valentine dress for the party," Susan said. "It's almost time for me to go."

"A good idea," Lydia agreed. "It's only a small job finishing it."

She went into the bedroom, picked up Susan's dress, and sat down at the sewing machine. It wasn't like John not to mention their anniversary. And he always wrote his own charming little valentine message. He was a poet—oh, not like Longfellow, Burns, or certainly not a Browning, but the thought was genuine and especially precious to her. She switched on the machine and quickly stitched in the hem, then

pulled out the basting threads, and returned to the kitchen with the dress. "I'll press it," she said, "and then you may try it on."

"Thank you, Mother." Susan gave her a big hug. "It's absolutely dreamy."

Lydia took the ironing board from the closet and laid the dress over it. "The color is just right for you. You'll look mighty sweet in it," she said. "Mighty sweet."

"I love it," Susan said, dancing around the room. "I'd better hurry or I'll be late for the party."

"I am hurrying, dear," she said. "Now remember, you are to be home by five. We don't want to keep Daddy waiting. I'm sure he has had a big day."

She took the dress from the board and watched Susan as she skipped happily down the hall, holding the dress in her hands. Everyone was excited about the day except John. Maybe she was being petty — John was a wonderful husband. Supposing he had forgotten.... She was placing too much importance on the matter.

SHE was still standing near the ironing board when Susan dashed out of her room, dressed in her new dress, struggling with her coat. "I'll be home early, Mother. Goodbye. Oh, Lavina is taking a nap in our room. I covered her up well."

"Thanks, dear. Have fun."

With Susan gone, she was alone except for Lavina. Joe had gone down the street to help a friend make a snowman, and

108
