[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 9 | PDF Page 10]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 9 (PDF page 10) ---
PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

stake president to see if we could take the position that was being offered, and yet see that our family would not be neglected. We have worked it out all through our married life, so that our children never have been unattended. One of us has been home with the children."

And then, the third thing she said was, "I have an unshakeable testimony in the divine mission of the Lord, Jesus Christ."

I submit to you that there can hardly be three things said which would make for more successful motherhood than these three things mentioned by this wonderful stake Relief Society president.

Someone said, "A home is a roof over a good woman." Another said, "A hundred men may make an encampment, but it takes a woman to make a home."

You will never know until you have had the experience of walking into a house without a mother and one's companion there. It is like walking into a darkened room without the light turned on. The first intimation of domestic happiness you may recognize when members of a family say how they love their home. That is the indication of real domestic happiness.

"Where the home is ruled according to the Word of God, angels might be asked to stay, and they would not find themselves out of their element," one thinker wrote:

Households there may be, well ordered and abiding in comfort; families there may be whose various members live in harmony and love; but homes in their true sense there cannot be where there is no one whom manly choice has made a wife, and infant lips have learned to honor the name of mother.

Another wrote:

Six things are requisite to a happy home. Integrity must be the architect; and tidiness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection, lighted up with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day, while over all as a protecting canopy and glory, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God.

"The best school and discipline is home; family life is God's own method of training the young," our newspaper the other morning said.

Home is the seminary of all other institutions; it is the cradle of character and Christianity. Eighty per cent of our criminals come from unsympathetic homes. The most essential element in any home is God. Christianity begins at home; we build our characters there, and what we become in after years is largely determined by our training and home environment.

I heard a humble man out in one of our country stakes say something of great wisdom. Whether or not it was original with him, I do not know, but his statement was: "What we are hereafter depends on what we are after here." I think that, translated into a sermon, this would provide some worthwhile thoughts.

To Adam, the Lord said, concerning children:

And it is given unto them to know good from evil. . . . Wherefore, teach it unto your children, that all men, everywhere, must repent, or they can in nowise inherit the kingdom of God, for no unclean thing can dwell there, or dwell in his presence; for, in the language of Adam, Man of Holiness is his name, and the name of his Only

9
