[Vol52 | May | Magazine Page 370 | PDF Page 387]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 370 (PDF page 387) ---
MAY 1965

From the look on her mother's face, Elsa was sure that it was just as well.

THEY had a pleasant afternoon, and when it was time to return to church for the evening service, Karl said, "Will you play the organ tonight? Maria has done double duty all this time. I'm sure that she would like a chance to sit down in the congregation once more."

Both sisters agreed and Elsa took her place at the organ. She touched the keys lovingly. For some reason or other, it seemed to bring back to her, more than anything else, the great love she had for the old familiar things and places. Purposely she played "The Happy Wanderer."

Yes, the wanderer was home again and she was happy. She was also deeply content, and for that she was grateful. Happiness and contentment were rare treasures in anyone's life, sometimes purchased dearly. Always to be guarded zealously.

The two speakers of the evening were recent converts, a man and his wife. Elsa felt that their deep joy was a reflection of her own.

After the service the rest of the family drove home again with Uncle Frederick, but Karl took Elsa for a ride along the river on the opposite side from the castle. The great red brick battlements and towers were brilliant under floodlights, and it made a magnificent picture on the dark green of the hills.

"Did you ever see anything so beautiful in America?" asked Karl.

"Well, yes—to tell the truth, I did. The temple in Salt Lake City, lighted up at night, is the most inspiring sight I have ever seen, or ever expect to see. Naturally, there is a vast difference."

"Then some day you shall go back. But just long enough to have another look. In the meantime, you must make do with our castle."

"With the greatest of pleasure. Anyway, as far as I know, there isn't a single real castle in all of the United States."

Later she was to ponder his words, inferring that she might go back again some day for a visit. Was it a promise—of sorts?

Early the next morning she bade goodbye to the others as they set out for their holiday. She would very much have liked to go. Garmisch, Innsbruck—perhaps Salzburg, were magic names that she would have loved to make realities. But she quickly thrust such "selfish" thoughts aside. Her travels were over for the time. She must get to work.

It was fun to walk through Bismarckplatz again—to see and smell the lovely flowers. As she went down Hauptstrasse her first thoughts flew back to that morning, more than a year ago, when she had met the tall American soldier—met him so violently indeed that the Hoop-la had been knocked to the pavement and broken.

AT the gift shop Herr Klopfer was delighted to see her again. "I knew all the time that you would be back," he beamed. "No one can sell gifts as you can. You have a real love for the beautiful."

370
