[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 112 | PDF Page 116]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 112 (PDF page 116) ---
MADAME LETITIA

bursting with news. Madame Knolski was winning prestige for their state finals. "Their" meaning the Junior Musicians League. It was an out-of-this-world privilege, and the League was having a reception for her.

"She is a real kewpie." Sharon's enthusiasm was boundless. "I met her last summer when our orchestra went to Seattle. Remember?"

Tish nodded with something less than enthusiasm. She had heard the name Madame Knolski so many times it had become a pain to her ears.

"Are you coming to the reception GM? GM was Sharon's latest for Grandmother.

"Of course, darling. Why?"

"Oh — I just wondered." Sharon turned to leave, but at the door she turned. "I thought you might be too tired if you attend the tryouts."

"What an idea. You know I shan't be that tired. If your mother has to go early I have my car."

"Yes — but . . . ." then the reason for the question came out, "this is going to be real top layer, not exactly formal, but. . . ."

"I have a formal. You know how beautiful it is. Your Grandfather bought it for me when . . . ."

"Way back when," Sharon gulped over the disrespectful words, then hurried on. "GM, I love you so much, and I want to be proud of you when I introduce you to Madame Knolski. Won't you please get a new dress — a new one, not the old kind you always buy, and some new shoes? You always look so — so grandmotherly and — and . . . ."

"Comfortable?" After all Sharon was no teenager and suffering from a severe case of hero worship. Tish swallowed a taste of bitterness, then spoke in her usual tone. "Don't worry. I will make sure you are proud of me."

Sharon threw her arms around her grandmother. "I am proud of you, GM. I really am. You understand, don't you?"

"More than you know. Run along now." Tish literally pushed her out of the door.

WHEN the door had closed Tish collapsed in a chair. Understand? What Sharon meant was easy to understand — just make herself into a Madame Knolski who undoubtedly was petite, flashy, and certainly tottered about on spike heels. Tish looked at her own feet encased in comfortable walking shoes.

"I must do it. I will show Sharon her Madame Knolski isn't the only one who knows how to dress. Thank goodness, I don't have the shape of a kewpie, and I hope Madame Knolski doesn't either."

Tish was not petite, not by forty or fifty pounds, but she was not obese, and she had kept herself straight. Her hair was only slightly gray. She would start shopping tomorrow — no, tomorrow was Relief Society. She would start today.

She made an appointment with a beauty operator whose prices were twice what she paid Carma over on Thirty-third Street. She felt guilty and wondered if she should call Carma but decided against it. There was really no need for apologies.

Tish set forth to get her dress and shoes with very sure ideas

111
