[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 60 | PDF Page 61]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 60 (PDF page 61) ---
JANUARY 1965

Lord intended that his saints would prepare themselves against the day of burning when the Savior would come in flaming fire taking vengeance upon those who were not keeping his commandments. (D&C 85:7-8.) This message is similar to the promise that the same judgment would come to those who would not tithe:

Behold, now it is called today until the coming of the Son of Man, and verily it is a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people; for he that is tithed shall not be burned at his coming.

For after today cometh the burning—this is speaking after the manner of the Lord—for verily I say, tomorrow all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble; and I will burn them up, for I am the Lord of Hosts; and I will not spare any that remain in Babylon.

Wherefore, if ye believe me, ye will labor while it is called today (D&C 64:23-25).

It is apparent from the discussion about the book of life and its purpose, that the inheritance of the saints in the future life will be determined by their faithfulness. In the annual conference of 1900, speakers mentioned this subject and also applied Section 85 to conditions as they are now. The law of consecration in force in 1832 is not required of the saints today, but every member of the Church is under obligation to keep the commandments, among which is the law of tithing. By commandment, a faithful record is kept of the non-tithe payers as well as of those who pay tithing. In the language of Elder Rudger Clawson:

... The lines are being drawn. It must be known to the authorities of

this Church and to the people who are faithful and who are not faithful. God requires it and it must be recorded, for the reason plainly set forth in the revelation, that those whose names are not found recorded in the book of the law of God shall have no inheritance in Zion in that day when our eternal inheritance shall be divided out to us (Conference Report, April 1900, page 44).

"THE STILL SMALL VOICE"

There are various means by which the Lord communicates with his children and, especially, the prophets. In the Doctrine and Covenants there are many forms of revelation noted: for example, the visitation of heavenly beings, Section 27; by vision, as Section 76; the use of the Urim and Thummim, as Sections 3, 6, 7, 11; inspiration, Sections 8, 20 and 21, and other ways.

We come now to another method of revelation — the Lord speaking into the mind. An example is Enos, who, while struggling in the spirit said: "behold, the voice of the Lord came into my mind again . . ." (B. of M., Enos 10). Jeremiah experienced revelation in this same way. (Jeremiah 1:4, 11, 13.)

One of the notable experiences of the Prophet Joseph Smith in receiving revelation is found in Section 85, as follows:

Yea, thus saith the still small voice, which whispereth through and pierceth all things, and often times it maketh my bones to quake while it maketh manifest . . . (Verse 6).

Nephi, in calling his wayward brothers to repentance, reminded them of the times when an angel "hath spoken unto you in a still small voice, but ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his

60
