[Vol52 | November | Magazine Page 833 | PDF Page 874]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 99% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 833 (PDF page 874) ---
"STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT"

do tomorrow, or when you get that his parents lived. She mo-
home. We'll worry about it then. tioned to a chair. He sat down.
Right now, though, I could use "I decided I couldn't make it
a little help in trussing that bird. now. Maybe in the spring."
I thought I'd get it ready tonight "What are you doing for
and start to bake it early in the Christmas, then?"
morning." "I don't know. Some of
Marcia laughed. "Rick here is the fellows from the office are
the best bird trusser you ever going on a skiing trip day at a
saw. He always did my moth- lodge till after New Year's.
er's." It was his turn to flush That's why I thought I'd better
now, but his eyes were pleased. come in and take care of
The three of them went into the my rent. Just in case I might
kitchen while the boy still stared stay beyond the first."
at the marvel of the tree. "Nonsense. There's no hurry
about that." She saw that he
ANNIE sat in her favorite gold was hardly aware of what she
chair, her eyes on the piano. was saying for staring at the
work was all done, practically all tree.
the food was ready to be pushed "That's really pretty. I saw
into the oven, or steamed or you one night, decorating it, and
whatever it needed. She still had wished I could come in and help
one problem and she would have you." Even his voice was wist-
to be very subtle about it. ful. She ached for him, too, and
As if the Christmas spirit were knew how lonely he really must
helping her, a knock came upon have been to come in like this.
the door. It was quite late for "When would you be going?"
callers, but, at this time of year, she asked, carefully.
people came anytime. Anything "Oh, not till the day after
could happen. Christmas, most of them have
And it did. For, as she opened families here. A couple of them
the door, who should be standing have invited me home, but that's
there but Charlie Smoot, her really a family day. I wouldn't
problem person. "Why, Char- intrude."
lie," she asked, "how are you? I "I know. I'm alone, too, you
haven't seen you for days. know." She almost asked for
Where have you been?" pity with her tone, but she
Taken a bit by surprise, he wasn't thinking about herself.
answered truthfully, "Well, after His head came up swiftly. He
work, I've just been walking said, "That's right. And before I
around town, looking into win- forget it, I have a little remem-
dows, listening to the music. brance for you. You've been so
Christmas is a lonesome time nice."
when your family is two thou- He was looking through the
sand miles away." packages in his hands. She stop-
"Oh, I'm sure that's true. But ped him. "Why don't you save it
you mentioned something awhile for tomorrow night? It would
back about going back there." make me very happy if you
She recalled it was in Minnesota would come down and have sup-

833
