THE WOMEN IN THE ORIENT.

	It seems to be common to all nations over
whom the principles of Christianity have either
no influence at all or only a partial influence, to
assign to the women a place of unwarranted in-
feriority both in the family and in the society at
large. This is readily seen in the Orient both
among the Jews, Mohammedans and nominal
Christians, but particularly among the Moham-
medans. And this needs to be seen before any-
one can appreciate the wonderful changes that the
principles of Christianity have wrought in this respect.
	The advent of a boy in an Oriental family is
always the occasion of rejoicings and congratula-
tions. Friends from far and near on this occasion
give expression to their feelings of pleasure. But
when a girl is born, there are no outward tokens
of joy in the family and no congratulations from
friends. All are silent. "Only a Girl!" The
event is not worth while mentioning. Women
and men in those strange Eastern countries feel
alike upon this subject.
	I never came across a family the head of which
thought they had too many boys, but on more
than one occasion I met people who gave me to
understand that they thought Providence had not
been entirely kind to them, seeing that they had
more girls than boys among the children. And
one mother–she had five daughters–offered me
as a present a dark, bright looking little girl with 
jet black hair and brown eyes, which offer, I re-
gret to say, I had to respectfully decline.
	There is a natural cause for this peculiar feel-
ing towards the girls. These are entirely con-
fined to the duties of the house or to the less re-
munerative work, while to the boys the oppor-
tunities of mingling with life in all its features are
open. They are thereby enabled to earn a living
for themselves and for the parents, which they
very frequently do. For it can not be denied
that children as a rule are affectionate to their
parents. And not seldom the boys make all the 
living for the family. The girls on the other hand
have no chance except to attend to attend to the
domestic duties and fetch a price on the matri-
monial market.
	It is well known that in the Orient the boys
have to give for their brides an equivalent in
money or other valuables. The price of a girl
varies very much according to circumstances.
Has the girl a fair complextion and gracefully de-
veloped form she will be held in high price. But
if she is dark and not very well developed, she is 
as likely to be left as not, or the parents will have
to give her away. $200, I was told was the
regular price for a goodlooking girl in a little
village situated one day's journey north of Jeru-
salem. The price was considered high at that
place. It must be remembered, however, that
the parents of the girl who is to be married are
supposed to to endow their daughter with prop-
erty in value equal to the sum the bridegroom
has paid for her. The bargain amounts therefore
really to a trade and nothing more. It must also
be added that the parents usually keep one third
of the property that was to have been conveyed
over to the bridegroom with the bride, in case
he should prove faithless and abandon his wife.
This reserve fund, if I so may call it, is then for-
feited.
	The intellectual training of the girls is generally
neglected. They are very seldom taught to read
and write. Among the lower classes of the Mo-
hammedans can probably not be found a woman
who has mastered the intricacies of the Arabian
alphabet. It is somewhat better in this respect
among the Jews and the various 'Christian' sects.
Among these I frequently met with ladies who
could read their respective languages.
	Even on the religious domain the women seem 
to take a back seat. The holy book of the Mo-
hammedans has very few provisions for women.
I never saw a Mohammedan woman pray, all
though men are frequently seen praying both in 
the mosques and in their homes. The duty of
worshipping God appeared to be one incumbent
only on the men.
	It is not easy to understand how this deplorable


state of things has come to exist. That it is an
anomaly I think all will admit. I put it in con-
nection with the state of serfdom in which the
whole population is held. The causes that led to
the political enslaving of those millions naturally
would lead to a lowering of the estimation of the
women. Could the people be educated up to a
point where they could appreciate political liberty,
they would soon expel from their homes,and their
families, all that binds some of the members in
thraldom. For no one who really loves liberty
for himself can feel happy in seeing the slavery
of another, that is to say, if he is a morally good
being. Political and religious liberty is needed
for the vast millions of the Orient, and before this
has been gained, I am afraid there will be little
hope for the women of those vast regions.
								J. M. S.


