IN MEMORIAM.

	Martha Bowker Young wife of the late Presi-
dent Brigham Young and daughter of Samuel and
Hannah Bowker, died Sept. 26, 1890. Deceased
was born near Mount Holley, Burlington Co..
New Jersey, and was 68 years old when she died.
	She lived the life of a true Latter-day Saint
ever patient and willing to honor God's priest
hood in every sense of the word.
	One thing that was remarkable about her was
that she was never known to wear any trimmed
dresses, or do anything that was against retrench-
ment which her husband Brigham Young had
preached so many years and tried to carry out
through his life.
	Many sacrifices were made by Sister Martha
and she has certainly gone to reap an abundant
harvest for the good seed she has sown which
thousands of the Latter-day Saints might be
proud of. Though she had no children of her
own, she showed the most tender and loving
motherly care to a little girl whom she adopted
when only three months old. A true and loving
mother she was in very deed and great will be
her reward.

	'Tis ha.d to break the tender chord,
		When love has bound the heart;
	'Tis hard, so hard, to speak the words,
		Must we in sorrow part?

	Dearest loved one we have laid thee
		In the peaceful grave's embrace;
	But thy memory will be cherished,
		Till we see thy heavenly face..

										IDA.


[Column 1]
		R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.
			WASATCH STAKE.
	The Primary Associations of Wasatch Stake
held a conference in Heber City, Thursday
morning 10, a. m. Sept. 18th 1890. Sister
Louie B. Felt General Pres., and Miss May
Anderson of Salt Lake City were present.
Most of the branch associations were represented
and a programme consisting of songs, recita-
tions and class exercises, was creditably rend-
ered by the children.

	In the afternoon at 2 p. m. the Y. L. As-
sociations of the stake met in conference and
had a very nice meeting. Miss Murdock was
chosen and unanimously voted in as Stake
Sec'y.
	Brother Hatch Pres. of the Stake and quite
a few other brethren attended both meetings
and expressed themselves well pleased with
the conference.
	Sister Felt addressed both meetings.
	The Stake house in which the meetings were
held is a handsome stone building of which the
saints of Wasatch are justly proud.
			MAY ANDERSON, Cor. Sec.
[Column 2]
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of R. S. Conference at Mesa, Mari-
copa Co., A. T. Sep. 18th 1890. Coun. Sarah
E. Russel presiding. Opened by the usual ex-
ercises.
	Pres M. A. Hakes reported the Mesa Ward
they had been quite energetic in many things,
but of late not quite so punctual in attending
meetings as they should have been.
	Pres. Lizzie Mc'Donald said the Lehi Ward
were doing a good work and faithfully trying
to do their duty.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman gave a good report of
the Alma Ward, also some wise counsel.
	Coun. Sarah Tiffany reported the Papago
Ward, had held their meetings regularly and
were moving along as well as they could.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw gave encouraging re-
ports of the Nephi Ward and bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the great Latter-day
work.
	Pres. C. I. Robson then gave some timely
advice and instruction; after which Coun.
Sarah A. Robson, Sarah M. Johnson, Sarah
Phelps, Eleanor Morris, Sister Hunsaker and
Henrietta Standage each bore their testimony
and a good spirit generally prevailed.
	Brother Noah Brimhall addressed the meet-
ing for a short time when the conference was
adjourned for three months.
				F. E. ROBSON, Sec.		
UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the fifth conference of the Relief
Society of the Uintah Stake of Zion convened
in the Ashley Ward meeting house, Sep. 1st
1890.
	Pres Sarah Pope presiding, singing "Praise
ye the Lord," prayer by Sister A. K. Bartlett,
singing "Once more my soul the rising day."
Minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved.
	Pres. Sarah Pope, supposed it was on ac-
count of the brethren being so busy with their
teams that there were so few present. Hoped
all had the spirit of the Lord with them, and
if they had we would be able to have a good
meeting if there were but few. Thought all
ought to serve God the few years they were
permitted to live on this earth, for it was but
a moment compared with the ages of eternity
Said we should lay up grain and take care of
it for time of need, asked the Lord to bless us
that those who spoke might do so with His
spirit that we might have a good conference.
	Coun. Elizabeth Mitchell felt as though we
could have a good time any way, felt to press
forward although she felt very weak, but
would respond to every call that was made
upon her, endorsed the remarks of Pres. Sarah
Pope.
	Bishop Geo. Freestone said it was rather
unexpected to him to be called upon. Thought
the sisters were more energetic in their duties
than the brethren. Thought all ought to press
forward and not tire when the journey was
about through, for the day is not far distant
when the Saints will come off triumphant;
the darkest hour is always just before day, gave
many good instructions to all which were very
appropriate.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett reported the Relief
Society of Ashley Ward as being in a fair con-
dition.
	Sister Olmy spoke about being at the Temple
said she had had a good time; spoke of the
necessity of taking care of our wheat for Heber
C. Kimball had said that the time would come
when a barrel of flour would be worth a
barrel of gold, and the Relief Society was
called upon by Pres. Young to lay up what
grain they could for that time, thought Utah
was blessed with good crops and the sisters
should take care of it, not run in debt at the
stores so that, every bushel of grain would
[Column 3]
have to go to pay the bills. Prayed the Lord
to bless all.
	Sister Wimmer gave in the report of the
Mountain Dell Relief Society. Meeting ad-
journed until 2 p. m., singing "Lift up your
heads ye scattered saints." Benediction by
Pres. Sarah Pope.

	Afternoon session: Singing "Away with
our fears," prayer by Sister Oaks, singing "May
we who know the joyful sound." Reports of
Merill, Riverdale, Glines and Mill Ward Relief
Society by the different presidents.
	Bro. R. S. Collett said those who preside
need all the encouragement possible by good
attendance. I was thinking how perfect the
different organizations were, if the world knew
this they would not wonder at our strength
today. We should look after the poor, we
should not stop and question whether they are
members of the Church or not; it matters not
if they are in need they should be helped.
And gave some very good instructions to all
on the duties of husbands and wives which
were very interesting.
	Sister Oaks made some remarks upon prayer
and faith and said Brother Collett has said a
man's work was from sun till sun but a wo-
man's work is never done; this is a true saying
for mother's mind is never at rest she is always
trying to instil something good into the minds
of her children; we want to try to have peace
and quietude in our homes so the spirit of God
will dwell therein; asked the blessings of God
to rest upon all.
	Sister A. K. Bartlett could not say like
some that she could talk better when there
were a few; for the greater the flow of the
spirit the more we should be able to say;
let us take care of our wheat how
would we as mothers feel to have our child-
ren crying for bread, and we had none to give
them; some of us know what this is. There
is a great deal of work to do in these organiza-
tions; looking after the sick and poor among
us, there are very few of us who are independ-
ent of this Society. There is not a mother
under the sound of my voice that does not
shudder when she thinks of the temptations
that surround our children; we as mothers,
must be humble and prayerful in order to
have any control over our children gave many
good instructions to all.
	Pres. Sarah Pope gave the sisters some good
instructions in regard to their duties, exhort-
ing them to faithfulness; and closed by ask-
ing the blessings of God to rest upon all.
Conference adjourned until the first Monday
in March. Singing "Beautiful land of rest."
Benediction by Bishop Nathan Hunting.
