SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	NOVEMBER 1, 1890.


[Column 1]
﻿		RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in this
city October 7, 1890, commencing at 10 a. m.,
Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding. On the stand
with the President were Mrs. B. W. Smith her
second Counselor, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer, Mrs. S. M. Kimball Secretary Mrs. E.
B. Wells Cor. Sec’y. and Mrs. Minerva W. Snow,
and several of the Presidents of the Relief Society
of the different Stake organizations. Meeting
opened with that beautiful hymn,
		“O, my Father, thou that dwellest.”
	An eloquent prayer was offered by Bishop
Madsen of Gunnison. Continued by singing
		"How firm a foundation, ye Saints of the Lord.”
	Minutes of the morning session of the April
Conference were read by the Cor. Sec’y. and ap-
proved.
	Pres. Zina Young welcomed the congregation
in her kindliest manner and spoke of the interest-
ing General Conference of the Saints which had
just closed the day before. “Truth is sweeter
than honey in the honeycomb, and we have re-
ceived so much of it from the servants of the
Lord during the last few days. I appreciate the
efforts of the sisters who have exerted themselves
to come long distances to attend this Confer-
ence.
	Pres. M. I. Horne reported the R. S. in Salt
Lake Stake, said we have 44 branches all wide
awake; no difficulties in any of them. We have
demonstrated that our associations are elevating
in their tendency, many hundreds have been
blest through the R. S. Spoke of the Savior’s
words and exhortations to well-doing and urged
all to keep the commandments of our Heavenly
Father.
	Mrs. Julia Lindsey, Bear Lake Stake, “I feel
very proud to be here this morning. We have 22
branches in our Stake, it reaches from Woodruff,
Rich Co. to Soda Springs including Star Valley.
We hold our Conferences twice a year. We visit
as often as we can possibly do so—it is hard on
account of the distances we have to travel, but
the Lord blesses our efforts, ours is a cold cli-
mate, long winters, I see many here whom I
knew in Nauvoo and it gives me great joy.
	Panguitch Stake reported by Mrs. --------
it has 9 branches, the distance to travel
in order to visit all is very great.
	Mrs. Eliza Hall reported the Relief Society of
Malad, there were 10 branches, and all in good
condition.
	Mrs. Mary Pitchforth Pres, of R. S. Juab Stake,
5 branches all in good working order,Nephi which
had formerly been in one ward had recently been
divided into two wards and their Relief Society
Hall had been sold for sufficient means to build

[Column 2]
one for each ward with a very little added. “We
have to help the poor none need be in want;
spiritually and financially we are in good condi-
tion,” gave excellent advice upon principle and
and urged the sisters to hold fast to every prin-
ciple revealed and trust in the Lord for the out-
come.
	Mrs. Adeline Barber Pres. R. S. Cache Stake,
“as the daughters of our Father in heaven we
have a mission to cultivate ourselves spiritually,
and to comfort each other and bless the sick and
the poor. We have also the saving of grain
given us to do, the brethren have not encouraged
us much in this work. I try to visit all the 20
branches in our Stake once a year, but I am
working in the Temple and have less time to visit
than some others, but I know it is good to visit
the sisters and I feel to say to my sisters, look up
and be comforted, and try and do all the work
you can for the dead,prayed we might be a band of
sisters working together in unity and we would
be blessed, we are prospered this season with
rich harvests let us not forget to be grateful.
	Mrs. Emma Jane Bennett Counselor in R. S.
Beaver Stake, they had 5 wards all in good order,
the sisters all express themselves satisfied and
happy, we try to visit our Stake twice a year,
there are quite a number of sisters who do not
join us in our work, perhaps they feel a little too
young and too old for the Young Ladies Asso-
ciations. We have a Committee to attend to the
saving of grain; these sisters go out with a team
when it is harvest time and solicit donations.
We hold our Conferences quarterly and have
weekly prayer meetings from which we realize a
blessing. If we do our duty from day to day the
Lord will make it plain for us. May He bless us
in all our endeavors to do good.
	Mrs. Sarah M. Pomeroy Pres. Maricopa Stake,
we are trying to do our duty, we hold quarterly
Conferences, and there are a few sisters who are
always faithful. We have had a great deal of
sickness in Mesa Ward. The Relief Society have
built a brick house, it was six months from the
time the first brick was laid until it was com-
pleted. The Y. L. and P. A. are doing a good
work. I attended their Conferences. It was re-
marked when Sister Mc’Donald left our place
that it would be difficult to get any one to fill her
place, and I remember saying whoever the pre-
siding priesthood select we must sustain, little
thinking it would be myself; and I feel it a great
responsibility. I feel well repaid for the long
journey I have taken to come here and attend the
Conference.
	Mrs. Olivia Widerborg Pres. R. S. Box Elder
Stake, realized fully that she was standing before
many true and noble women, who had passed
through much sorrow and had performed a labor
of love. She desired to give a little report of the
good earnest sisters among whom she visited and
to tell how much the visits from place to place
had taught her. There are fifteen branches and
it takes two weeks to go and come. Our Presi-
dent of the Stake always fixes up two carriages
and invites the President of the Relief Society
and of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associa-
tions and we travel together among the people.
Some of them are poor in circumstances do not
have means at their command but they have
homes and comforts and are living their religion
and keeping the commandments given to the
Saints. Sister Harriet Snow left a good example
and we all desire to imitate her. Our Relief
Society is in a good condition. We have our
Scandinavian Society for the sake of the older
sisters who cannot speak the language, they
have an emigration fund and have emigrated 37
or 39 sisters, who all have remained faithful since
their coming.
	Mrs. Susan Grant Pres. R S. Davis Stake
stated that they had 9 branches in that Stake and

[Column 3]
that there were many faithful, energetic sisters in
the organization; Kaysville R. S. had recently
been divided, and she and her Counselors had
been invited to attend the meeting  when the
Society was divided; a wife of George D. Watts
had been appointed to preside, she was the
daughter of the late Brother Golightly of this
City, in her husband’s lifetime she had not the
privilege of attending meetings; the Society in
that Stake were taking care of the needy and the
sick and laying up grain and doing their duty as
far as they had an understanding.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Fox Pres. R. S. Oneida Stake
said there were 18 branches in that Stake and it
was necessary to go over a great deal of ground
when they visited the whole, but tried to visit all
once a year. This year Sister E. S. Taylor Pres.
of Y. L. and Sister Louie Felt Pres. P. A. had
made the tour with them and had a very good
time. Afterwards the Presidency of the Stake
went round and wherever they went the people
would say “Didn’t we have a good time when the
sisters were here?” One Bishop who had just or-
ganized a R. S. in his ward was glad for the sake
of his own wife, she thought that pretty good tes-
timony; they held Conference once a year in
Franklin, the others were really district confer-
ences for the sake of those who could not come so
far to attend.
	Counselor B. W. Smith wanted the sisters to
be sure and comfort the poor and the sick, the
cast down and distressed. When Brother Joseph
used to come and talk to us, when Sister Emma
was President, Sister Whitney and Sister Cleve-
land were her Counselors, committees were ap-
pointed to visit, but we had poverty then and
were unacquainted with the duties that we have
learned since, but my advice is ‘never let any one
suffer that we could look after and help. We
have had so much good counsel and encourage-
ment we should never have our faith weakened,
this is a good time, the Lord is prospering his
work.” Singing, Doxology, benediction by Mrs.
Sarah M. Kimball.
	Afternoon session, opened by singing,
		"Come let us anew our journey pursue."
	Prayer by Coun. B. W. Smith, singing,
		"Hail to the brightness of Zions’s glad morning."
	The Cor. Sec’y. then read the minutes of the
afternoon of the previous Conference which were
approved, also a letter containing a written report
of the condition of St. Joseph Stake from the
President of the Relief Society of that Stake Mrs.
Willmirth East.
	The President of the Conference Mrs. Zina
Young made a few remarks and called for a rep-
resentative from Utah Stake. Mrs. Emily Cluff
Counselor gave a good report, said the sisters
were energetic in attending meetings and in all
good works, the President and her Counselors
made a point of visiting through the county once
in 6 months; spoke very nicely of the Kanaka
sisters out in Josepha where she had been presid-
ing of late, said those sisters could teach us some
lessons in promptness and diligence.
	Mrs. M. A. Hyde Pres. R. S. Sanpete Stake
stated there were 18 branches where she presided
and she had visited most of them recently, they
held quarterly Conferences in the different towns
alternately; this year the harvest had been boun-
tiful and they were taking care of the wheat, she
spoke upon other interesting subjects and bore a
strong testimony.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke of the excellent re-
port that had been prepared, and the labor it was
to compile it perfectly, and asked that a vote be
taken whether the whole report be read or only
the totals; it was decided to have the totals read.
Dr. R. B. Pratt the Ass’t. Sec’y. read the totals
of the R. S. Report and it was approved.
	Mrs. Temperance Hinckley Pres. R. S. Ban


[Column 1]
﻿nock Stake, said they labored under great dis-
advantages in visiting through their Stake, as
they had to cross the Snake River, and sometimes
in boats as it could not always be forded, she had
visited all round this year in July, the sisters there
tried to live up to their privileges.
	Mrs. Clara Beecher reported Cassia Stake as
in very good condition, said “we have a noble
President in Sister Louisa Haight.”
	Coun. Martha Hammond of R. S. San Juan
Stake said we hold our Conferences twice a
year and change them here and there to permit
all to have an apportunity of attending the con-
ferences. We have long distances to travel and
not so many privileges as those who live nearer,
but we have many good sisters and they are de-
sirous of doing a good work.
	Mrs. Mary E. Farr Sec. R. S. St. John’s Stake
said the sisters there were energetic in doing all
they could to aid the human family, “our sisters
have not the privilege of the presence of the lead-
ing sisters not even once in a while, it would be
good if we could have them, the Stake has been
visited just recently, our conferences are held
semi-annually, we are not as rich as some but we
are trying to live our religion.”
	Mrs. Louisiana Heppler reported R. S. Sevier
Stake, and gave a good account of the condition
of the Society there, said the sisters love spiritual
food, we are very  near something, some crisis!
exhorted the mothers to prepare themselves to
answer all the questions the children ask, she
had traveled in company with the Pres. of Y. L.
through the Stake just before coming to Confer-
ence, and had heard the young women speak of
their great desire to become honorable mothers;
many of our people have music in their homes
which is very inspiring, and the associations
have manuscript papers; our girls will work hard
during the summer season to get means to go to
the Richfield Academy, spoke of her own large
family; and her ardent desire to see them all do-
ing right.
	Mrs. Ann Elizabeth Webster Pres. of R. S.
Cedar City reported the R. S. of Parowan Stake,
there are 5 branches, we change our Conferences
from place to place alternately, we comfort the
sorrowing, spoke of the storing of grain, said she
felt proud to be associated with such good sisters
gave some of her experiences in crossing the
plains in the handcart company; exhorted
mothers to diligence and firmness for the right in
dealing, with their children, spoke particularly
upon the necessity of honesty and truthfulness.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Yates Pres. R. S. Millard Stake
“we have a good band of sisters united and trying
to do their duty, visiting the sick, the poor and the
sorrowing, our settlements are very far apart
but we instruct our officers and teachers in their
duties in separate meetings. Apostles F.M. Lyman
and H. J. Grant have recently visited us and
given us just the instructions we needed; there
has been a great improvement in the sisters the
last two years.”
	Pres. Zina Young presented some items of
business, said each President should report the
times of holding the Conferences in her Stake to
the Cor. Sec’y. Mrs. E. B. Wells, so that we
can arrange for visiting and be prepared to do so.
Spoke to the sisters in regard to sustaining their
paper the EXPONENT, “through its columns we
can speak to each other, and to the world, can
know how each Society is prospering and make
our work more uniform. Every President of the
Relief Society should take it and use her influ-
ence to have it sustained by others. It is our
Father’s love for us that has caused his priest-
hood to organize us and we should honor our
position and seek to improve. The President
earnestly entreated the mothers to take more
pains to teach and encourage their children in 
the principles of their religion. “This is the time
of times among the nations, never has there been
[Column 2]
such a time since the days of our Savior. How
many mothers realize the responsibility of their
family; sometimes when I think of it I feel al-
most as if I should dissolve! mothers take care
of your sons, make them strong to resist temp-
tation, and your daughters that they may be pure'
and wise and prudent—and become better
mothers through your training and example
Sisters in the Society go on and build your houses
and hold your meetings and you will be blest;
when I hear the sisters say they go out hundreds of
miles to visit, I feel they are blessed of the Lord,
it is a work of love, let us be patient and joyful
and tender, be willing to sacrifice; well might
Joseph the Prophet say “elect ladies" if he could
look upon these noble women that are here as-
sembled. Sisters strengthen the Primary Asso-
ciations and the Young Ladies’ how many times
I think of the saying, “If ye love me feed my
sheep,” it is the spirit that is resting upon me by
day and by night. Sister Zina then spoke very
impressivly in the gift of tongues. Dr. Barney
gave the interpretation.
	Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury Counselor R. S. in St.
George Stake represented the organizations, said
that in visiting with President Ivins they found
some who were remiss, and needed encourage-
ment and they promised to do better in attending
to their duties, the blessing of the Lord was with
them when they traveled in the interest of the
Society; spoke of the discouragements they had
in trying to raise silk, said they had every natural
facility, the climate, the mulberry trees, and the
boys and girls to work in it, but lacked the money
necessary to make it a success.
	Mrs. Ann Tate Cor. Sec’y of Tooele R. S.
represented that Stake, said Tooele and Grants-
ville organizations were in good condition but
the smaller ones were behind and needed build-
ing up.
	Mrs. Emma Brown Pres. Wasatch R. S. spoke
of the blessings they had received in that Stake
and their good conferences, all was prosperous.
	Mrs. Emeretta Randall was asked to represent
Weber Stake but excused herself, and said she
felt well in the Gospel and spoke eloquently in
the gift of tongues, Sister Zina Young interpreted.
	The secretary Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball spoke of
some mistakes, changes had been made and the
matter not referred to the General Presidency of
the Relief Society, branches should refer to the
Stake Presidency and she hoped the sisters would
come to a better understanding of these things.
One of the advantages of the organization is that
we may become disciplined and discipliniarians
and we cannot do this unless we observe order,
and in this we learn to do things correctly.
	The President then made some closing re-
marks, said comfort the weak and strengthen their
hands, we have had an excellent Conference the
last few days, it is the testimony of all I’ve heard
speak that it was the best Conference we ever
had, and the united support and confidence in
the “Official Declaration” of the President was
indicative of its strength.
	There never was a time when the Presidency
and the Twelve were so united as they are to-
day and we shall go on and increase until the vic-
tory is ours.		
	Conference adjourned until April 1890; sing-
ing,
			"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing.”
	Benediction by Mrs. E. B. Wells.


