AUNT LU'S STORY.

	Why need we pursue this subject farther?
What was this strange power, that turned these
men from the wrath of cruel murder?  The
power of love and sympathy, the power of God
unto salvation!
	These men were afterwards baptized, with
many new converts, among them our dear Mrs.
Alby, and the "staunch Presbyterian Scotch-
woman" who could not withstand the power of
conviction.
	In the conversion of these men, that Scripture
was verified which says, "I will make the
wrath of man to praise me," etc.  They have
both been on foreign missions, and spent many
"happy eventful days" since then but date
all their true happiness to the one event that
of their miraculous conversion from the power
of the "Prince of darkness," to the truth of the
"Everlasting Gospel."
	But now the tire burns brightly and its
genial warmth seems to act as a sort of sym-
pathetic magnetism upon my brain and heart
and I feel like having a little social chat with
you, who have listened so attentively to me
thus far, and if you don't mind the fatigue of
straying over meadow, field and river up hill
and down dell, we will go back to Alby 
Lodge." where in a very short time quite a
settlement has been formed by people from the
Eastern states mostly, who have taken up
claims, built log cabins nearly all of them with
thatched roofs, so that at a distance, they have
the appearance of toad-stools, scattered pro-
miscuously over the country.  They have
erected also a logcabin for a school house the
logs have the bark upon them in which they
grew; the floor is of ‘puncheons’—split logs,
the door is immense, as well as the chimney,
there are two windows one at each end of the
house, tall walnut trees spread their branches
over it as if in protection of this laborious
structure, that all the settlers have turned out
to build; and then the next thing in order was
to find a teacher; there was no one in all the
settlement who was considered competent if
they cared to teach: little Dama who is now
twelve years of age, is the nearest approach to
an educated young woman (thanks to good
mother Alby) but she has yet much to learn;
and the task of finding a teacher was assigned
to Robert.
	It must be a woman of course, on account
of cheapness, and she must be willing to
walk two miles and take her chances of an oc-
casional conveyance to and from by teams; at
this period of the world's existence, woman's
labor, in what ever vocation, was not considered
worth more than a third at least as much as a
man's, although she might perform the same
amount or more; and do her task equally as
well, or even better; that did not matter, but
the world moves, and times have changed, and
you little girls and young women may be
thankful and consider yourselves fortunate
that you came into existence to take up your
march in the battles of life, along steep paths,
and over lofty heights, made smooth by the
noble pioneers of reform!


[Column 1]
	﻿Robert wrote to his sister Lois, to find a
teacher for him, giving her to understand that
none need come expecting Citified prices or
fare; nor must ‘their teacher’ be over fastidious
or put on airs of superiority, etc.
	Miss Blanche Howard who had already 
taught two school years’ and had partly prom-
ised for another, was present when the letter
was received.  She made the acquaintance of
Mrs. Alby and Robert when visiting at Augusta
the winter previous to their departure for the
West.  She was quite a favorite of Mr. and
Mrs. Sloan, and frequently in Robert’s com-
pany; indeed she was, to use a common ex-
pression, completely captivated with Robert,
who in addition to his handsome face and
form, she had endowed with every conceivable
virtue and perfection, she was then just enter-
ing upon her fifteenth year, gifted with warm
imagination, she often found herself with bowed
head lost in deep reverie long after his de-
parture.
	But the Spring and Summer glided away,
and Autumn deeped into Winter, while she
was dreaming all sorts of fancies regarding her
heart’s idol in the far, far away wilderness
while he was entirely ignorant of the admira-
tion and love he had inspired in the heart of
Miss Blanche (as she was called). His mother
was as yet his first and dearest love, and
to her he was, notwithstanding his wild love of 
 adventure and chosen calling, a devoted and 
affectionate son.
	Two years after Robert left, Blanche was
called to mourn the sudden and untimely death 
of an only brother, for whom she grieved sin-
cerely,   for   a   time forgetting   her
habit of dreaming, or of indulging in delicious
reveries of fanciful things, in which the dull
present was completely swallowed up by the
bright future; she began to be more studious
and thoughtful of making herself useful, yet as
wealth and ease had always surrounded her,
she was not yet thoroughly aroused to any
sense of real action.  Of her mother she had
an indistinct recollection, the only instance of
which she retained vivid memory was after
her mother was prepared for burial, when she
was lifted in the arms of her father,to look her
last upon the stilled,pale face,and closed eyes of
beautiful clay, and of the grief she felt in not
being taken with the mourners to the  grave.
	A widowed aunt of her father gave to her
the only mother-love and care she could re-
member.
	Following the death of her brother (grown
to manhood) in less than two years after was
that of her only parent—then, the knowledge 
that with all his supposed wealth there would
be only a few hundred dollars remaining after
the estate was settled.
	At first she appeared to be overwhelmed 
with grief, and when her kind Pastor came to
visit her, under her great bereavement, she ex-
claimed in the bitterness of her sorrow “I have
nothing to live for! would that I could die?”
Her faithful Christian friend strove to comfort 
and divert her mind from earth to heaven, 
and when he left, a sweeter peace stole into
her heart thau had rested there since that
dreariest of all earthly sounds the fresh dug
clods upon a new made coffin covering the dust
of an idolized parent.
	Now life, with its objects and duties ap-
peared in a new view and soon resolutions of
usefulness and good filled her soul as never
before. Time’s soothing balm healed her
heart’s wounds, and new hopes sprang up to
cheer and gladden her way; notwithstanding 
the stern decree, which bade her labor for 
daily bread, and so it was, with a most cheer-
ing smile that she returned the letter placed 
in her hand to read exclaiming, “This is just 
the place for me!  Write and say that I will
come in time to make myself acquainted with
parents and children.”
[Column 2]
“Please let me have my way?" she said, as
both Mr. and Mrs. Sloan began to place
obstacles before her, pointing out difficulties 
that would be hard for her to meet, without
great strength to endure and overcome them.
Long they talked while the shadows of even-
ing gathered around, and the Summer wind
bore their words onward while it whispered to
the warm, loving heart of Blanche, of a hope
she could not form into words.
	It was in vain inducements were held out
to her by these friends, of a home with them,
or that others tried to dissuade her, her de-
termination was fixed. “There may be,” she
said, “lions in the way, and giants to fight, I
may shake with the ague, and lie on a hard
bed, as you all say everybody does who goes
West, (unless they take along a bed of feathers)
but I shall put on my armor and muster all
the martial courage needed to  ensure
triumph.”
	But just let me whisper, “Love, love, mys-
terious and wonderful;” was the secret magnet
that caused her determination to remain un-
shaken against the pleadings of friends, and
drew her forth without fear or regret into new
and untried fields, many a “God bless you,”
and “Godspeed thee!” went with her at part-
ing, while Mrs. Sloan said, “Dear Blanche, I
cannot think but that there is much happiness
in store for you; you try to make others happy,
and doing good to others is the surest way to 
bring joy into our own lives, and though trials
greater than you have yet known come upon
you, by patiently bearing them, and living for
others you will conquer them and bring that
contentment into your own heart, which is a
stranger to those whose pulsations are re-
stricted to their own narrow sphere."
	Many messages and tokens of love and
esteem were sent to distant friends some of
whom she was enjoined to visit on her journey
to “Alby Lodge.” It was not a small matter
either for a young person to take such a
journey alone ‘over the hills and far away,’
for you must bear in mind, this was before the
waters of the Mississippi had been spanned by
man’s energy and science, or the way prepared
for the iron horse that now tramps proudly 
across its majestic waters, rushes over broad
prairies, scales the mighty Alps of America,
descends mountainous declines into valleys of
marvelous cultivated beauty, snuffs the breezy
waters of the Pacific,impatiently champing as it
courses along by the restless billows of the
ocean, through orange groves, orchards of
fruit and flowers, and gardens of Eden-like
splendor that at that time were undreamed off.
	Nothing worthy of particular mention oc-
cured until she paused on her way at a beau-
tiful city, with letters of introduction to some
of the dwellers therein, from their Eastern
friends.
	Here she was received most cordially, and
was treated with great kindness and hospitality 
she made many pleasing acquaintances and
formed many friendships with a people whom
she had heard spoken of, as the "offscouring
of the earth."  To her mind they had spoken
without knowledge, for she found unmistake-
able evidence to the contrary.
	As a whole, the inhabitants appeared to be
industrious, enterprising, educated and refined.
It was indeed a beautiful city, (greatly in con-
trast with other places in the surrounding
country,) with its bright homes, neat dwellings
cultivated gardens. while its costly, noble and
magnificent marble Temple crowned the whole.
But the spirit of persecution had not ceased
with the slaying of their Prophets who had been
lured on to destruction by perfidy and premedi-
tated perjury, as was the “Morning Star of the
Reformation.” John Huss, in the fifteenth
Century and I grieve to say it, the dark cata-
logue of scenes already protrayed upon historic
pages, have not yet ceased in our own fair
[Column 3]
land.  The same spirit of intolerance,audacious-
ness, and of feverish malignance is brooding
and cowering in secret places keeping a vigi-
lant watch and envious eye upon the glorious 
upbuilding of the kingdom which it would
vainly seek to destroy.
	Blanche parted from her new-made friends,
grateful for their kindness and with a pleased
satisfaction that it was in her power to give
some bright pen-pictures, to the unenlightened
left behind, that would she thought, dissolve 
the dark ones from their sight forever.
	But the stage station is reached at last
where Miss Blanche is cordially greeted by her
escort in waiting, a tall full-bearded fine look-
ing man, who it was barely possible to recog-
nize as the Robert of her youthful dreams.
	Little Dama was there also, and to her; her 
heart went out at once as to a younger sister.
As for our little blue-eyed maiden, she felt her
heart overflowing with joyful emotion and
blissful delight at the first glimpse of her new,
and much talked of teacher.
	There could not have been a more beautiful
day than the one of Miss Blanche Howard’s
arrival. The whole air seemed palpable with
richness.  Dame Natnre had thrown over the
forests “a coat of many colors,” and the mel-
low October sunshine wrapped everything
around in a mantle of ethereal glory.
	Mrs. Alby was at the door to receive her
and her escort with loving welcome; while the
word went forth from mouth to mouth, like
wild-fire through tall prairie grass; and if
thsre had been any facilities for a grand dis-
play there would have been one most assuredly;
as it was the entire settlement was jubilant
and they all turned out enmasse to greet the
new school ma’am from '‘way down East.”
Nothing else was talked of for two weeks, the
prevailing subject was regarding the merits of
the new teacher and of the first day of school.
That first day at school! Ah what an event
to look back upon indeed; and what memories
it awakens?  Teacher and scholars on hand, 
especially the scholars,long before time to take
up the school and what a pleasing sight it is
to see the children gather round their teacher,
sometimes a little shy, but there are sunny
smiles playing ‘hide and seek’ in the merry
dimples, bright eyes, blue, black, brown, and
gray; such skipping, running, chattering etc.,
and here at the little log school house the very
birds on the tall trees above them paused to
listen. But I shall make my story too long if
I stop to tell you all that was done throughout
that happy first day, or in the days that fol-
lowed.  The games played, the stories told at
recess and in the long noon-time, suffice it to
say, all the scholars (there were but ten to
commence with) agreed that their “teacher was
just as nice and sweet as she could be.”


