WOODLAND Y. L. M. I. A. H.
				———
	Minutes of Annual meeting of the Y. L. A.
held in Woodland Ward, Sept. 28th. There
being present on the stand Bishop Moon and
Counselors, Pres. Hatch and Duke, Sister
Duke President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciations of Wasatch Stake and Counselor
Alexander, also Sister Ruth Hatch and Sister
Nicholson.
	Meeting opened by singing "Now let us re-
joice." Prayer by Brother Nephi Thayne,
continued, singing "Do what is right." The
roll was called showing an attendance of 18
members. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	The programme was then proceeded with
as follows:
	Bible reading by Amanda Moon, Hattie
Neiber then read "A glass railroad," in a
very commendable manner; a correspondence
between Pres. Hanson and Ida Hoag, subject
"Goodwill and charity to one another."
	"People will talk," was then read in a very
pleasing manner by Lydia Moon. Pres. Han-
son and Lois Benson sang "Oh! how lovely
was the morning." The regular programme
then being finished.
	Pres. Duke then spoke a few moments say-
ing she was well pleased with the programme,
hoped we would continue in well doing, ad-
vised the young girls to select a partner in
life who was of the same faith as themselves,
and to always make a confident of their
mother; she thought it would be well for two
or three members to get together and visit
those that did not attend, some little good
might come of it.
	Sister Nicholson gave some good advice and
counsel, said she was pleased to see the ad-
vancement in the young ladies as they once
belonged to the Primary.
	Sister Alexander then called upon the Lord to
bless us.
	Sister Ruth Hatch said it was pleasant to
be with the young ladies in the capacity of a
meeting and to note their well doing. Felt it
was a noble work.
	Brother Duke said he felt pleased to be
numbered with the Saints, was pleased to see
each one take their part so well; advised all to
study that which was elevating to the human
mind; each one taking their part when called
upon all could be mutually benefited.


Pres. Hatch said the development of the
past will be no comparison to the develop-
ment of the future.  That it would do no good
to talk on honor, virtue and other good sub-
jects unless we let them sink down into our
hearts.  He liked good intellectual feasts, ad-
vised all that could to go to school; and all to
strive to gain intelligence. Felt pleased with
the proceedings of the day.
	Bishop Moon said he felt pleased and edi-
fied with the remarks from the visitors, hoped
each one would try to put the good counsel 
into practice.  That all ought to do their best
to attend the meetings as there we could gain
knowledge if it was sought after with a pure
humble spirit.
	Meeting then adjourned by singing “Praise
to the man.” Prayer by Coun. Ephraim Lam-
bert.
				Murzie Hanson, Pres.
				Ida Hoag, Sec. Pro tem.


[column 1]
UNWRITTEN LAWS FOR OFFICERS
OF WOMEN'S CLUBS
BY AMELIA K. WING.
THE RECORDING SECRETARY.
	The requisites for a recording secretary not
set forth in the books are a clear, distinct
voice and manner of reading, and an orderly
and impartial habit of thought. Very simple
minutes can be made interesting by effective
utterances, and elaborate reports are often
sadly marred by a hurried manner, or a voice
that is pitched too low.
	Money decisions, elections and every
subject decided by vote, should always be re-
corded, but matters that are simply discussed
without, may often be omitted, unless the
subject is tabled for future consideration.
	In reporting papers that are read, a secretary
should avoid prolixity, entering only the
general line of thought.
	Club members are usually impatient during
the reading of a lengthy review of the
previous meeting, considering it a waste of
time.
	A secretary’s duty is simply to record, not
to express her own opinion; an annual report
however admits of more latitude. Her books
should be neatly kept, without crowding, with
full date, year, month and day preceding each
meeting, and with marginal notes to facilitate
references.
	THE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY.
	It is understood that the corresponding
secretary should write a legible, business-like
hand, absolutely correct in style. Notices of
meetings and all notifications may be as brief
as possible and give the required information;
but let not the secretary be tempted by the
accumulation of notes to a discourteous brevity
in other correspondence.
	A personal note written with evident pains
to suit the individual case, is often a source of
great satisfaction. and reflects credit on the
club.
	THE TREASURER.
	A prompt, correct and efficient treasurer is
difficult to find, owing to the lack of training
women usually receive in this direction.
	Accuracy is, of course, the first requisite.
The bills for annual dues should be sent
promptly,in accordance with the requirements
of the by-laws,and the receipted bills returned
at once on receiving the money, the date be-
ing affixed to everything. Strictly business
methods seem to give the best results in money
matters.
	If a member is delinquent, simply sending
a second bill when the time has expired will
usually give the least offense.  Any attempt
[column 2]
at a courteous request might say too much or
too little. Whereas the purely business
method is absolutely impersonal, and carries
the idea of a like treatment for all.
	Should the second notice fail to secure a re-
sponse, the matter may then be refered to the
board of directors, to be treated according to
the constitution.
	The treasurer should not consider it an in-
terference on the part of any officer or member
to be asked the condition of the finances, and
in her annual report the expenditure should be
given in detail.
	THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
	All the business of the club should be
decided by the board of directors, except such
subjects as require the co-operation of all the
members. The chairman should come to the
meetings with a full knowledge of the business
to be transacted, but she should never decide
any matter without first submitting it to the
full board, and she should report the proceed-
ings to the club meetings.
	The stationery and postage of the above
officers should be supplied by the club, as it is
manifestly unjust to require this expense in
addition to the time and labor given.
	CUSTODIANS
	If the club has well attended meetings,
custodians are most desirable, to have charge
of the arrangement of the seats, ventilation,
seating, etc. If possible they should be
familiar with the faces of the members, they
should welcome guests, and should always be
present half an hour before the opening of the
meetings.
