LINES IN MEMORY.
OF
IDA HEYWOOD
[Who died while her father was on a mission to New
Zealand.]

In mercy our father has taken
	Our dear little Ida away,
And to sorrow or pain she'll ne'er waken,
	She'll rest till the beautiful day.

As I sit by her little white casket,
	And gaze on her sweet face so white,
Oh forgive if I sin when I ask it,
But why did her spirit take flight?

Did her aunties and grandmothers beckon
	Her spirit to leave this sad shore?
Did a thrill in their bosoms awaken
When her frail little bark started o'er

The River of Death dark and dreary!
	Upon the white shore did they stand
To welcome the lone one so weary,
	To the shores of that heavenly land?

Though the dear little bosom was heaving,
	And the frail little form writhed in pain;
We could not consent to her leaving,
	Till her father could see her again.

And we prayed to our Father in heaven,
	If only His will it might be
To spare the pure life He had given
	Till her father returned o'er the sea.

Oh sincerely we plead for this favor,
	And we clung to the beautiful child
Against hope—yet we still hoped to save her,
	But soon she looked peaceful and smiled.

And she called for her brothers and sisters,
	Then she sang in a voice, oh so sweet.
Just at midnight our goodbye we kissed her,
	Till in heaven again we shall meet.

We feel it was His will to take her
From a world where so much is impure.
	If we could, we'd be loth to awake her,
For in life there is much to endure.

Now she's safe from sin and from sorrow,
	And her absence will be oh so short,
E'en before we're prepared for the morrow,
	We'll be summoned into the port.

Oh the joy of that final blest greeting
	With all the loved ones gone before,
Hearts thrill at the thought of the meeting
	Where parting and tears are no more.
					EMMA B. COLEMAN
Alpine Ariz.


[Column 1]
THE HIGHER EDUCATION OF
		WOMEN.
AN ADDRESS BY MRS. EDDY.
[At the opening of the Agricultural College
in Logan.]
	The doctrine of gifts and corresponding
accountability, is as old as the human family.
It is no more true of man than of woman.
To her, as to him God has given these mental
and moral capabilities, and to her own self
[Column 2]
first does she owe the best education that
circumstances and means will permit in order
that she may fill up her capacity for true en-
joyment. Then on the other hand, she owes it
to the world in order that she may fill up her
measure of usefulness. Woman's sphere is a
broad one. Into her hands is committed work
which even angels might enjoy, for to her is
left largely the pre-natal moulding of the next
generation, and for work so stupendous as this,
so far reaching in its results, so important to
the weal or woe of civilization, say nothing of
its eternal consequences, she should have the
constant aid of a well disciplined and well
stored mind.
	We believe no calling was ever more grand
or noble than that upon which a woman enters
when she assumes the duties of a wife and
mother, and hence needs the most careful
training, for its faithful following. The old,
yet ever true adage: "The hand that rocks
the cradle, rules the world," has been most
beautifully exemplified in the onward march
of this nation in civilization and eminence
among the nations of the earth; for who will
say that this progress has not been due more
to elevated and educated motherhood than to
any one other cause. Or, think you, had the
religion of our Lord Jesus Christ placed and
kept woman where the religions of Confucius,
Buddha and Mohammet did, and do still, that
we should be the nation we are to-day? Or, if
down through the ages. India's and China's
mothers had been partakers of even a limited
education, think you that those countries would
today be sitting in such darkness and delusion?
No wonder that the wheels of their civiliza-
tion are blocked. No wonder that in the glory
of the onward march of nations these be-
nighted countries still sit bound in chains of
ignorance and superstition, performing in-
iquitous and obscene rites to gods and god-
desses, when over 250,000,000 of their mothers
are by a lordly hand, and in the name of re-
ligion, compelled to spend the long months
and years of a lifetime within the unadorned
and dirty walls of Moslem harems and Hindoo
zenanas. And when, until recently, their girls
were not considered worth educating, and
when in India alone, 75,000 of them under
nine years of age are branded as widows, for-
bidden again the sacred rite of marriage, and
doomed to drag out the most pitiable existence
as the most menial of servants, unloved and
despised. When in these dark corners of
earth, the religion that educates and elevates
motherhood, has had sway, then, and only then
may we expect these nations to arise and take
their proper places among the nations of the
globe.
	While we believe that in the house is wo-
man's highest calling, yet it is by no means the
only one. Education has proven that she is
thoroughly competent, and often even more so
than are the men for our numerous public
school departments; and often is she deemed
more worthy as a specialist in the various de-
partments of our colleges and universities.
Then, too aside from the more common voca-
tions, telegraphy, stenography, type-writing,
book-keeping, &c., are beckoning her with
lucrative hand to enter these domains, so that
the day of woman's dependency is fast coming
to a close. She can select some employment
from the many vocations open to her, that will
not only be lucrative, but congenial. But
fifty years ago such independency would have
been impossible, unless perhaps as a house, a
mill or a shop girl with their meagre com-
pensations.
	Aside from all these, there is another class
of work for which every woman, whether
married or single, should fit herself. I refer
to the work of advocating the various re-
forms of the day which must be met and settled
before the wheels of our civilization can move
[Column 3]
on much farther. The giants of intemperance
and social impurity that are stalking so de-
fiantly over this fair land, and working such
ruin and devastation to home life, must be
met and driven to their abodes of darkness,
and principally too by the hand of woman,
for she it is who must feel most keenly the
robbing of those over whom she has spent long
years of patient toil and suffering. It is her;
sacred right to defend her home, her boys,
and her girls, and in the struggle against such
mighty foes, she needs all the help which an
enlightened and educated mind can give her
together with a heart saved and kept by a 
higher power than hers. Formerly, against
such mighty enemies, woman's tears and
prayers were considered her only weapons; but
education has given to her a voice whereby
she can formulate her prayers and tears, and
send them out in burning words, that shall
never cease to burn until, as a nation we are
purged from these evils.
	Woman's sanctified and enlightened en-
deavors, however, must not be confined to
America alone. Awaiting the efforts, both at
home and abroad of the educated women of
Christian America and England are the 250,-
000,000 of heathen women, of whom we have
already spoken, shut up from the sound of
every voice but woman's. On and on the
dark stream must go, and for the most part
into eternal night, until stopped by the in-
troduction of education linked with the
leaven of the gospel, and these can be carried
only by woman's hand. This is truly wo-
man's work for woman. Millions of doors
are not open, but where are the consecrated and
and prepared workers to enter them? And
such workers need the best equipment possi-
ble, to enable them to meet and overturn the
most subtle of sophistries that have hidden
themselves behind the ever accumlating
superstitions of the centuries.
	Thus we see that when woman's capabili-
ties are led out by a broad and thorough
training, her field of usefulness lengthens and
broadens until it is no longer bounded by
oceans, and continents, but with the immortal
Wesley, she must say, "The world is my par-
ish." And for this world of work Utah must,
and will furnish her quota of workers.
	Be it the happy privilege of this institu-
tion to give them the necessary equipment;
and on it will fall the blessings of the re-
cipients that shall come up from these fertile
valleys and mountain fastnesses and sit them
down beneath this vine of learning.
	Logan Journal, Sat. Sept 13, 1890.


