RAGE ASSOCIATION.

	The presidents of all the State Women
Suffrage Associations auxiliary to the National-
American W. S. A. are reminded that it will
be their duty to prepare a report of the year's
work in their States, and have it ready to
send to the corresponding secretary of the
National-American W. S. A. by Jan. 1, 1891;
and also to see that a list of names and
addresses of members of each State W. S. A.
is prepared and sent to the treasurer of the
National-American W. S. A. Jan. 1, 1891, as
required by the constitution.
ALICE STONE BLACKWELL.
Cor. Sec'y. N. A. W. S. A.


A Roumanian princess has given to
benevolent institutions the whole income of
the fortune left by her husband, and has be-
come a waiter in a children's hospital at Jassy,
which she helps to support.

	Rev. Olympia Brown and Susan B. Anthony
addressed the Edmunds County S. D., Equal
Suffrage Convention, at Ipswich, on Thursday.
Eight of the townships were represented, and
six committees were appointed to make a 
thorough house to house canvass of the
country. It was the largest audience assembled
in Ipswich for a long time, and nearly every
man present donned the yellow ribbon.

	East Tpwas is no place for a womanhater,
as here is a town which the ladies run. One
is a postmaster; another has the telegraph
office and has female messenger boys, another
runs the best hotel; lady printers get out the
weekly newspaper, a lone woman manages a
big tea house and two others have general
stores; the schoolteachers are women, and so
are the store clerks. This is a good town to
tie to.—Detroit (Mich.) News. 

	Miss Minerva Parker, whose plans for the
Queen Isabella pavilion, at the Chicago
World's Fair, were preferred to all others by
the committee on the building, is a native of
Chicago, but is settled in Philadelphia. She 
studied at the Pryne Art School, took a
two years' course and graduated at the 
Franklin Institute, and finished her art educa-
tion at the School of Design. She gives
domestic architecture her special attention 
having designed houses at Johnstown, Radnor,
Elm Stations, Overbrook, Lansdowne, and 
Berwyn, among other places in Pennsylvania.
Miss Parker is the only woman architect in 
Philadelphia.


