[Vol30 | August 1943 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: 2. What method have you used to successfully store household tools? In the light of the class discussion can you see room for improvement?]
methods 'of "preserving" the home food supply of fresh fruits and vegetables during the summer growing season. 'To know that no fruits nor vegetables have been wasted, and to have an adequate winter supply of these important foods will be a great satisfaction to all homemakers. Latter-day Saint housewives have always been interested in preserving the summer supply of fruits and vegetables for winter use, and have practiced the adage of "waste not, want not."
Vegetables and fruits may be preserved by canning, drying, freezing, and storing. It is the purpose of the following discussion to explain briefly the last three methods. DRYING Drying or dehydration of fruits and vegetables means that enough water is removed to stop the growth of molds and other organisms. If done properly, it will also preserve much of the flavor, color, and food value.
Dried products occupy less space for storing. Drying Vegetables 1.
Select vegetables that have reached the table-use stage. 2.
Clean thoroughly, remove all blemishes. 3.
Precook or steam.
This prevents excessive loss of food value, sets the color, and hastens drying.
Steaming is preferable to boiling in water. Any large kettle in which a rack arrangement can be placed to keep the vegetable up out of the water niay be used Page 468 for steaming, provided the kettle has a tightly-fitting lid. Snap Beans Cut in one inch lengths Steam 15 to 20 minutes Dry 4 to 7 hours Peas Steam 10 minutes Dry 3 to 5 hours Corn Split each row of kernels lengthwise before cutting and scrape cob with a knife to get all the milk from the cob. To 4 quarts of corn add: 1 cup cream or rich milk  cup sugar 2 tablespoons salt Mix and boil for 20 minutes stirring constantly to prevent scorching.
Spread in shallow pans and dry in the oven or dryer, stirring often. Dry until the kernels will break with clean glass-like fracture. Spinach Leaves or Other Greens Strip out heavy midribs from chard or other large leaves. Steam 1 to 3 minutes Spread on trays covered with cheesecloth, dry 2 to 4 hours in the oven. Oven Drying For most families the oven is large enough to dry all necessary foods. It is convenient and inexpensive.
Cover the racks with cheesecloth or other thin material. Set the temperature control at 150.
Open the oven door about every hour and change the position of the trays to give uniform drying. The temperature may be increased to 250 and FOOD PRESERVATION the oven door left slightly open all the time if desired. Drying Fruit