Home Science Department.
Juliette A. Hyde.
The work inaugurated in this phase of our Relief Society Extension Course has already taken a firm place in the minds and thoughts of our officers and members. We would suggest that no undue emphasis be placed on this study, nor indeed, on any other department or activity of this great and growing Society. Each department in our work should receive its just and righteous share of attention and thought?that much, and no more. It may be necessary at times?especially when beginning a certain phase of effort?to focus our thought and attention thereon, until it is fairly started and in running order. Once firmly adjusted, however, we, as wise women, will again bring forward in equal division of time and attention all the other phases of our work. This department is a new feature of our Relief Society work, but the ground it covers is not at all new to the state or the Church schools. The Agricultural College of Logan inaugurated this movement in the early nineties, while the Brigham Young University at Provo introduced a Domestic Art Department in 1879, and a Domestic Science Department in 1896; and later the University of Utah established the same course. The Extension Department of the Agricultural College has established many clubs throughout the state for domestic science and art. Invite the members of such clubs to join with you in your work. Urge our women to leave all other clubs and movements and join our Relief Society work. All women are eligible and welcome. Do not seek to tear down the house built up by any man, but build your own so spaciously and beautifully that the man will be glad to leave his own poorer house and come and dwell in comfort with you. The series of conventions to be held under the joint auspices of the Relief Society and the Agricultural College were inaugurated by a Salt Lake City convention, to which delegates from the city and county stakes were invited. The convention opened on Friday morning, January 21, in the Assembly Room of the Bishop's Building. Mrs. Juliette A. Hyde was in charge, assisted by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman and Miss Sarah Eddington, the members of the general standing committee of Home Economics. Other Board members present were Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Mrs. Emma A. Empey, and Miss Sarah McLelland. The representative sent by Dr. E. G. Peterson, head of the Extension work of the Agricultural College, was Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, who gave the lessons and conducted the discussions. It was fitting that this lady open the pioneer convention for the Relief Society for she is the first graduated Domestic Scientist in the west. She attended Pratt Institute in 1896, took a special course under Miss Emily Huntington in kitchen gardening, and came out with high honours in her class in both science and art, from that pioneer Institute. Mrs. Widtsoe is a recognised authority all over the United States in her line, was one of the founders of the Farm Women's Congress, and an official for two terms. Her writings on these subjects are sought by leading periodicals, and only her home duties and her other heavy burdens prevent her from being a constant writer for the press. Her pamphlet on "Conveniences on the Farm," published by the government, is sought for everywhere, but is now out of print. Mrs. Widtsoe prepared the outlines for this course in the Relief Society, which were published in the January Magazine. The attendance at the convention was excellent, nearly every seat being occupied, while the interest was deep and constant. The first three lessons of our course were taken up, while some general instructions were given on teaching and on the course itself. Two lessons were all that could be given, but a general request for another similar convention in March was warmly expressed. We are happy to announce that a great general convention in this department will be held under the auspices of the General Board at the April Conference, dates to be announced later. We hope to see delegates from all our stakes, and we will have expert instructors sent from the Agricultural College to give the lessons, and to lead the discussions. We know this will be good news to all our friends and members, and we suggest that you look about for suitable delegates and plan accordingly. The work of the Lord, and of that branch thereof, known as the Relief Society, moves forward at a rapid pace. Let us keep step with the onward march.

MISCELLANEOUS NOTES.
During peach season, collect the peach stones, dry and crack them, using the nuts for candy and flavouring of cakes, etc., instead of bitter almonds. Paraffin oil, which can be purchased at any drug store for about twenty-five cents per quart, is excellent for water-proofing kitchen floors. It is applied cold, with a soft rag, dries instantly, and so is easily removed. It has been used very successfully on old kitchen floors, which had originally been painted, and from which most of the paint had been removed by wear. The oil works better on new floors. A quart of oil is sufficient for a medium sized kitchen.