[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 298 | Home | Let's Glamorize Chicken Myrtle | E. Henderson]
[Let's Glamorize Chicken Myrtle E. Henderson]

Cracker crumbs sprinkled over the top and baked in the oven. 1 c. Of cooked broccoli could be used instead of asparagus. Chicken Dressing Casserole % c. Chopped celery 6 c. Dried bread broken into small pieces "2 ¢. Chopped onion 1 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley dash of pepper " ¢. Butter ¥, - 1 tsp. Poultry seasonin 3 - 4c. Cooked diced chicken P. Poultry 8 __Sauté for about 5 minutes the celery, onion, and parsley in the butter; add the chicken, broken bread, and seasoning. 'Toss together thoroughly, and pour into a <. Casserole. Cover with chicken custard. Erves 8. 298 CL Myrtle E. Henderson Chicken Custard 1 c, chicken fat (part shortening, if 4 Slightly beaten eggs desired ) 1 c. Milk 1 c. Sifted flour 1 tsp. Salt 4 c. Chicken broth Melt chicken fat in large saucepan, and blend in the 1 c. Sifted flour. Gradually add the chicken broth and milk; stirring constantly. Add salt. Cook until very thick. Blend in the slightly beaten eggs and cook over low heat 3 - 4 minutes. Remove from heat and pour over the chicken and vegetable mixture. Bake 20 - 25 minutes at 350 degrees. Chicken Croquettes 1% c. Ground, cooked chicken 1 c. Thick white sauce 1 tsp. Celery salt 1 c. Fine bread crumbs 1 tsp. Lemon juice 1 egg, beaten 1 tsp. Chopped parsley % tsp. Onion juice salt and pepper to taste Add the chicken, seasonings, lemon juice, and parsley to the white sauce. Cool and shape into croquettes. Dip into crumbs then into egg mixed with onion juice and again into the crumbs. Fry in deep fat from 2 to 5 minutes. Molded Chicken Salad 1 envelope unflavored, unsweetened 1 tsp. Lemon juice gelatin 4% c, mayonnaise or salad dressing % c. Cold chicken stock 1 c. Diced cooked chicken % ¢. Hot chicken stock 3 tbsp. Minced green pepper % tsp. Salt % c. Diced celery Soften gelatine in cold chicken stock in top of double boiler. Add hot stock and salt and stir over boiling water until gelatin is dissolved. Cool and stir in the lemon juice and mayonnaise. Combine with the chicken, green pepper, and celery. Pour into large or individual molds. Makes 6 servings.