[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 268 | Poem | Lullaby for Tomorrow | Dorothy J. Roberts]
[Lullaby for Tomorrow Dorothy J. Roberts]

267 Cancer Can Be Controlled 1963 — "The Year of the Volunteers" Ralph Edwards National Crusade Chairman, American Cancer Society HE encouraging news in the fight against cancer is that physicians now have the knowledge to cure one out of two cancer patients. The big if is — if people see their doctors in time for early diagnosis and treatment. Reaching people with information about cancer therefore becomes a life-saving opportunity, a most urgent one. Remember that one out of two cancer victims could be cured, but only one out of three is now being cured. 'That is not good enough. We must move ahead to a higher achievement. See your doctor immediately if you have any one of Cancer's Seven Danger Signals that lasts more than two weeks: (1) unusual bleeding or discharge; (2) a lump or thickness in the breast or elsewhere; (3) a sore that does not heal; (4) change in bowel or bladder habits; (5) hoarseness or cough; (6) indigestion or difficulty in swallowing; (7) change in a wart or mole. See your doctor every year for a thorough health checkup no matter how well you may feel. The risk of dying in the prime of life is almost twice as great for men who are heavy cigarette smokers as for nonsmokers. Cigarette smoking ls the principal controllable causal factor in lung cancer, a disease that has increased 953 per cent in the last thirty years. In tribute to 2,000,000 volunteers who have aided cancer progress, the American Cancer Society has designated 1963 as ""The Year of the Volunteer."" In April 1963, the crusaders for life and health bring a vital message — ""I'o cure more give more to the American Cancer Society." Lullaby for Tomorrow Dorothy ]. Roberts Hushaby baby, eider the bed, Softer the new pillow under your head, Kinder all hands to the innocent flesh, Wider the heavens be to the thin mesh Hung to your dreaming, oh red bud to blow; Gentler the seasons be, lighter the snow. 268