[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 284 | Home | "Mama" | Anna Duncan]
"MAMA" Anna Duncan 7 gee streams of warm milk sang happily as they hit the bottom of the shiny pail. Mama sat on a battered, old feed bucket she had turned over for a milking stool. She rested her cheek against the cow's warm flank and stripped the milk methodically into the pail. It splashed and splattered against the inside of the bucket. I straddled the corral fence and watched the frothy white liquid rise higher and higher in the bucket. Mama's hands closed and opened with rhythmic regularity. The fingers were brown and strong. [ listened to the zing-zang, zing-zang of the milk against the metal. It made me drowsy, and I half closed my eyes until everything before me became one brown, blurred form. The rough pole fence felt scratchy against the inside of my bare knees. A soft breeze swept past my face, bringing with it the odor of hay and warm milk, and the thought of Papa away in the high hills herding sheep. I opened my eyes again and watched Mama finish milking. She moved from one cow to another until the bucket was full. She stood up and lifted the bucket of foaming liquid high above her head, slipping the wire handle over a rafter so that the cows wouldn't kick it over. I jumped down beside her, and we walked together to the haystack. "Let me, let me," I begged, taking hold of the smooth-handled pitchfork and spearing it into the hay. I pushed and 284 pulled, grunting with exertion, but the hay wouldn't come loose. Mama laughingly took the pitchfork from my hands and began to fill the mangers with dry hay. The cows all moved expectantly toward the manger, picking up the prickly stems into their wide, moist mouths and chewing lazily. I found my own mouth moving sideways and round and round as I watched the animals eat. "Must feel mighty stickery," I said, watching. Mama's ample figure swayed in rhythm to the work. Little wisps of chestnut-colored hair escaped from the soft bun at the nape of her neck and curled pleasantly around her flushed face. I filled my arms with hay and carried it to the manger. I could feel the dry stems sticking into my bare arms and through the front of my dress. 'The hay was scratchy and made my nose itch. I dumped the armload of hay into the trough and walked back for more. "Whew," I breathed after a few trips. Mama stood resting for a moment, leaning against the pitchfork. "Looks like it might rain," she observed, looking into the sky. The clouds moved slowly across the pale blue heavens. I could imagine what it would be like to be up there lying in the fluffy, white mass. One of the bigger clouds looked like a great big, bulgy elephant with a curvy trunk. It slowly moved into the shape of a clown and the trunk turned into a pointed hat. "Come along, Sister," Mama said to me. We stopped to pick up the bucket of milk. I took hold of one side of the handle and helped her carry the milk to the house. The evening breeze caught Mama's cotton skirts, swirling them around her brown, bare legs. The metal handle cut into my hand and I turned loose and rubbed the crease that the handle had left in my palm. Mama held out her firm brown hand to me, and I moved around and took hold of it. It was nice and warm. I held it tightly as we swung happily along to the farmhouse. Inside the kitchen, Mama poured the clean, white milk into several shallow pans and carried them carefully to the pantry, where she placed them on rough board shelves to cool. The rest of the milk went into the big, silver separator bowl. I took hold of the crank and began to turn it around and around. Mama closed her hand around mine and gave a few quick turns until the machine began to hum in a high-pitched whir. Mama's eyes were close to the mirror that hung over the washstand. I could see them reflected as I helped her turn the separator handle. Around and around it whirred cheerfully. She let loose the handle and let me keep it going. I liked to watch the lines crinkle around Mama's soft gray eyes when she laughed. We both turned to watch the bluish skimmed milk pour from the one spout and then a thin stream of yellow cream came from the other "MAMA" spout. I looked back into Mama's face and, sure enough, the lines were crinkling. When Mama came back into the kitchen, she busied herself at the old, black coal stove. She lifted the lid of the firebox and poked the burning coals with a long, steel poker, then she picked up the coal bucket and sprinkled the small chunks into the glowing fre. As Mama opened the oven door of the stove, I could smell the newly baked bread — "Umm-m," I murmured. She tapped the loaves lightly with the tips of her fingers. Seeing that they were done, she gathered the pan up with the corner of her denim apron and carried the loaf pan to the cupboard where she dumped the plump, brown loaves onto a clean dish towel. I watched her take two blue glass bowls from the cupboard and fill them with chunks of steaming bread; she moved to the pantry and brought back a pan of last night's milk and skimmed the thick yellow cream over the broken bread chunks; she sprinkled the bread and cream with lots of sugar, and we sat down at the kitchen table to eat. "Say the blessing," Mama reminded me as she bowed her head over her folded hands. "God, bless Daddy while he is away — bring him back safely. We thank thee for this food, and for this lovely day. Amen." After supper was over and the dishes were washed, Mama pulled up the old black rocking chair close to the flickering fire glow and scooped me up into her warm comfortable lap; she held me close. Back and forth we rocked, back and forth. 


 She put her cheek down against my hair and sang a funny little ditty: "Waltz me around again, Willie, around, around, and around.. Mama's bed was big and soft and cool in the back bedroom. She gathered me into her arms, wrapping my feet in her huge flannel nightgown and curling her body close to mine under the fluffy patchwork quilts. I touched her hair as it lay spread out on the pillow; it felt crisp and wiry; there were springy waves that looked as if they might have been braided in, but were naturally there. I reached over and touched her smooth face, and she took hold of my hand and kissed each finger separately. We lay silently for awhile, then she reached up and turned off the light that hung from the bedstead. I could see the moonlight shimmering against the window and a few stars, way off, twinkling in the dark sky. A dog howled forlornly somewhere in the night; Mama's arms tightened reassuringly around me. I love you, Mama, I thought sleepily. A whiff of rainfilled air came through the open window I heard the drops begin to fall upon the roof of the farmhouse — pit-a-pat-splat, splat-pit-a-pat. "Goodnight, darling," Mama whispered in my ear. Sleep closed in, peacefully.