[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 319 | Poem | Prairie Wind | Gilean Douglas]
btephen,  by  Beulah  Huish  Sadleir,  317;   Prairie  Wind,  by  Gilean  Douglas,   319.
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  the  Church  of
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1963  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association
Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah:  Phone  EMpire  4-2511;
Subscriptions  2642  ;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year ;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year  ;
20c  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back
numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of
address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,
under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for
in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be
returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six
months  only.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts.
243

The  Lord,
Easter,  and  Me
Elder  S.  Dilwoith  Young
Of  The  First  Council  of  Seventy
IT
was  a  hot  day  in  June  when  Comforting  their  souls  during  the
Joseph    Smith    rode    into    Car-  time  of  sorrow  was  the  prophetic
thage,  Illinois,  accompanied  by  knowledge  of  the  gospel.  The  Lord
Willard  Richards,  John  Taylor,  Am-  Jesus  had  come;  he  had  revealed  his
mon    Tenney,    and    several    other  mind  and  will;  he  would  still  guide
friends.  them;   Joseph   had  passed   through
The  feeling  of  foreboding  which  the  veil,  but  it  was  a  thin  veil;  he
was  the  mood  of  the  little  group  was  was  near.     He  would  carry  on  his
not  shared  by  those  they  left  behind  great  work  in  the  spirit  world.  Sure-
in  Nauvoo.    Hadn't  Joseph  circum-  ly  it  would  not  be  long  before  such
vented  his  enemies  before?     Those  a  spirit  as  his  would  be  able  to  re-
who  had  been  lulled  by  the  blandish-  ceive  his  resurrection.     The  resur-
mental   hypocrisy   of  his   supposed  rection  —  that  was  the  hope  which
friends  were  unconcerned.  Then  the  kept  hope  alive,
blow  fell.     A   foaming  horse   and         This   modern   scene,    enacted  in
dusty  rider  burst  in  with  the  news,  minor  key  many  times  in  the  lives
Joseph  was  dead,  Hyrum,  too,  John  of  all  of  us,  is  made  bearable  by  an
Taylor  grievously  wounded.  Desola-  act  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  nearly
tion  of  feeling  enveloped  the  saints,  two  thousand  years  ago.     So  much
Amid  mighty  outbursts  of  suffering  is  it  the  key  to  our  hopes  and  the