[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 309 | Poem | On His Way by | Hose Thomas Graham]
(To be continued ) On His Way Rose Thomas Graham Proud as a peacock he walks down the street, his head held high. He deigns to smile if he chances to meet a passerby But he never turns to the left nor right; do you suppose He thinks he belongs to the mighty-might? He tilts his nose And purses his lips with a haughty air; He's on his way. It makes no difference if people stare. It's his birthday. But isn't my precious three-year-old cute Out for a walk in his blue-buttoned suit? WITH GRATITUDE ep HANK God, our Heavenly Father, for permitting me to live long enough in this earthly proving ground so that I have developed a more reasonable state of mind, a more studious inclination; a more firm grasp upon the reality of God's existence, and a more sure knowledge that I may, by my own integrity and faithfulness, achieve a place in his eternal home. Thank God for later years. — Clara Horne Park 309 eo ~— p 'y' -~ 7 " Ty i my np ~ oF s@crefary-} treasurer Hulda Parker Hoteial wibmtfest Tor publiodtten i thts department should le sent threweh Mele? Somety presidents 90¢ regninhons covernimg the submittal a I Bey "Pes -» Ti » tive ial ~ lie RAscliieifise bec Ral a "a" ee o, bl LT ut mt tite Petal TP CHC WINE Fer PtinPy LHe, Pe 4 and RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Fresno Stake (California) Relief Society Display at Stake Center Open House, November 12-17, 1962 Viorene E. Wardle, President, Fresno Stake Relief Society, reports: "An open house was held during the week of November 12th through 17th in our new Fresno Stake Center. 'Tours were conducted through the center, which also houses the Fresno Third and the Fresno Fifth Wards. The picture shows a display which was set up in the Relief Society room to help the many visitors more fully to understand the Relief Society program. Scores of visitors, nonmembers, as well as members, went through the room, viewing the display, along with hearing a Relief Society sister explain the Relief Society program. We received many interesting comments and reports on this event, and we feel that we have made many more friends for Relief Society." East Phoenix (Arizona), Phoenix Eighteenth Ward Relief Society Illustrates "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan" Left to right: Joanne Buehner, Work Director Counselor; Effie K. Driggs, social science class leader; Irene Rogers, Education Counselor; Mildred Romney, President. Joan A. Corbitt, former president East Phoenix Stake Relief Society, now President, Scottsdale Stake Relief Society, reports: "Effie K. Driggs, social science class leader of Phoenix Eighteenth Ward Relief Society and former president, Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, used a styrofoam model to emphasize the various points of character of the ideal Relief Society sister. Several cubes were joined into a single unit, representing the Relief Society member living all of the lessons taught during the 1961- 62 season. All of these principles were bound together by a strong band of 'devotion' to the Church and to the mission of motherhood. It was emphasized during the presentation that the Relief Society sister is 'on the pedestal' and that any part of this solid unit which is taken away or ignored creates a void in the development and character of that member. At the end of the presentation each sister was given a folder with an illustration of the figure 'on the pedestal' as a reminder. Also in the brochure were the objectives and highlights of the lesson material throughout the year, emphasizing 'I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say.'
