[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 242 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

I received the January issue of the Magazine yesterday and was able to read some of the articles last evening. Now, as my children are settled down for their naps, I have had a chance to read more. I was particularly interested in the conference talks given by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen — these articles are so very timely — so much needed.
—Marlene J. Ketley
Bristol, Illinois

I hope that all the male members of the Church scan through every issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I like the stories which are nearly always very touching and simple excellent lessons for improving our family life. I just finished reading the January issue, and my wife and I are so grateful for the two very timely articles on modesty and virtue. One of the finest things I came across in a long time, is the lesson "It Is Not Meet That I Should Command in All Things" (by Christine H. Robinson). I think the fourth paragraph (page 63) is a real gem and a classic in our literature. The art layout and the entire Magazine reveal a fine sense of taste and proportion by the artist (Dick Scopes).
—Max B. Zimmer
Bountiful, Utah

What cover could have more eloquence about human experience than the handcart family group pressing on amid snowy surroundings (January 1963)? I was happy to see that Miranda Snow Walton placed first in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. I have admired the forthright strength of character revealed in her fine poems. Roxann Hase expressed a lovely thought in her "Sego Lilies," and Dorothy Roberts, as usual, has added a subtle little gem.
—Iris W. Schow
Brigham City, Utah

I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine from my childhood days, and every issue gets better. The last few years the Magazine has served as a link to my dear Salt Lake City, since we are engaged in building chapels for the Church. I find that the lessons are received with the same enthusiasm in Mississippi as they have been in other States. I am prompted to write my sincere appreciation for the January issue. How blessed would be the Church if each sister who heard the message of President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen would incorporate these ideals in their homes. My most sincere thanks to the judges who chose the poem "Some Late Evening" (First Prize Poem in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest), by Miranda Snow Walton. I have never read anything portrayed so simply and deftly upon death. And how happy her loved ones waiting there must have been to greet her beautiful soul.
—R. May M. Foote
Liberty, Mississippi

May I express my thankfulness to the Relief Society around the world and to our wonderful Magazine. It means so much to me now that I am so far from home. I read each Magazine as soon as it arrives. The lessons bring me close to my home and to the wonderful teachers I had, and help me to be a better wife and mother. The Magazine is my constant companion.
—Jeanine S. Pace
Tainan, Taiwan
Formosa

I have received the January Magazine. It is lovely. We do not get anything like it here. I always look forward to the joys of the Magazine.
—Miss M. Davis
Kingsbury,
Middlesex, England

242
