[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 269 | Fiction | Strictly for Silence Dorothy | Clapp Robinson]
or Silence ISH, short for Letitia, HaAl worth, was hurt, deeply hurt. She was never going to open her mouth again. Her new neighbor down the street had deliberately invited her to mind her own business; and all she had said was that he must not yell at his sweet wife. She was trying to help him put up a clothesline, and he had yelled at her like a—a—well, Tish had heard the coarse words and — who could help? And then, to add insult to injury, Irene, Tish's daughter, had agreed with the man. "After all, Mother, it wasn't any Dorothy Clapp Robinson of your business. 'The wife was the one to protest." And she might have added, "You try to dictate too much." Oh, yes, that is what they all thought. Well, she was through defending people.

From here on she was minding Tish Haworth's business — strictly for silence, as her granddaughter would say, and that wife was such a sweet person. Now her washer wouldn't work. She had had company over the week end and most of her bed linen was in the hamper. Tish called the repair man. He 


 would certainly be there just as soon as he could, tomorrow or next day at the latest. She bit her lip. If any repair man thought she was going to let soiled clothes sit around that long, he had another think coming. She could take the clothes to Irene's, but she wasn't going to. She could go to a washateria. She chose one from the telephone book, the one farthest from her home. She did not know anyone in that section of town, and, among strangers, she would not be tempted to talk. It was early when Tish arrived at the washateria, and there was but one person ahead of her. There was no attendant visible. It was a large room with two rows of washers, back to back, running down the center of the room. Against the inner wall were a half dozen driers. 'Two sides of the room had windows looking out on a parking space. By one window was a mangle with a chair before it. There was one other chair and a bench. These, besides a coin changing box and a pop vending machine, made up the furnishings of the room. The lone occupant of the room, a gray-haired woman, was putting a hand-pieced quilt in a big washer. She barely nodded when Tish said "Good morning." As Tish sorted her own clothes, she watched that quilt. The dear old grandmother who had pieced it would turn over in her grave could she see her handiwork being stuffed into a washer. But Tish was not going to tell her the quilt might be ruined. Another woman came in. She looked so fresh and friendly, Tish 270 turned away her gaze. If she spoke to that woman she would be lost. Three married girls came in, all in cotton house dresses, and they were too interested in each other to be courteous. Two more women. Still Tish kept silent. HEN Tish's washers were nearing the end of the cycle, a soldier in greasy fatigues came in and picked a tub directly across from her. He dumped an overflowing basket of clothes into the tub. That was more than Tish could stand. "You shouldn't," she cried, hurtrying around to his side. "Shouldn't what?" he asked. "Put those greasy overalls in with your white clothes. Just look at this lovely blouse." "It won't hurt them," one of the girls said. She looked boldly at the soldier. He gave her a brief glance, then turned to Tish. "Would you mind showing me how to do it?" Would she mind! Tish began sorting his clothes, making two loads of them. "Wife usually does this," the soldier apologized, "but she is in the hospital." Tish was all sympathy. "Has she been very ill?" "Nope," the boy grinned. "A boy, and you should see the size of his fists already." He dumped half a box of detergent into one washer. Tish grabbed the box and shut off the water. "My goodness. That was more than enough for three loads." She used her hands to scoop out some of the detergent and put it in the second tub. The girls laughed among themselves. "Say," the soldier asked, when the tubs were spinning, "would you mind watching these dohinkies for me? I'll take a quick run down to the hospital. I'll be back before they quit whirling." "Do you want them dried?" 'Tish asked. "Oh, sure." He fished some coins from a pocket and put them in her hand. The girls laughed again, but Tish ignored them. 'The woman with the quilt was putting it in a drier. Poor quilt! Presently an old car stopped before the window. A young man jerked a basket of clothes from the back of the car. He came in and slammed it down before the last washer in the row, then went out for two more. His wife followed him in, pushing a cart in which was a young boy and a small girl clinging to it. She was pregnant. Without a word the husband went out and tires squealed as his car started. "My, my," one of the girls said in a stage whisper, "wouldn't you love living with him?" The wife seemed to pay no attention. She stooped for a basket, then dropped it. Tish was waiting beside the soldier's loads. '""That is too heavy for you," she called. "Let me lift i. "Thanks," the girl answered, "I was trying to avoid stooping." A tear ran down her cheek. She brushed it away quickly. "Oh, he forgot his lunch." She pointed to a sack resting on one of the baskets. STRICTLY FOR SILENCE "Maybe he will remember and come back." "Not when he is in this mood. He will go without and be crosser than ever when he gets home." She whispered the words. ISH swallowed a quick remembrance. Hugh had had his moments during the early years of their married life. She had learned not to force an issue, and he had learned to give a little — only a little, to be honest about it, but they had had a wonderfully happy life. She started to tell the young wife, but stopped. She was not mixing in any family affair again. "Tm Tish Haworth," she said, "what is your name?" "Lola." That was all. Tish looked carefully at Lola. She had been and still could be a very lovely girl. Everything about her and the children was clean and neat. She wore a blue checked smock and a very blue skirt. 'Tish's resolve weakened. "T take it," she spoke casually, as She helped load the washers, "your husband was upset about something." Lola's mouth hardened. "He never thinks of anyone but himself." "So?" Tish glanced about. The soldier's washers had quit spinning, but there was no empty drier. The three married girls had left, and others had taken their places. One woman was putting a load in with one hand and reading a movie magazine held in the other hand. She neither spoke nor was spoken to. The young boy was screaming. "Push him back and forth, Darlene." Lola spoke softly to her 


 little daughter. "Tl take him in a few minutes." She turned to Tish. "This is the way the days go. Carl takes the car to work, and I can't get outside the door without both babies tugging at me. Darlene isn't old enough to walk as far as the park. I'd like to hear something besides baby prattle for a change." "Will you have to wait for Carl to pick you up?" "No. Ill walk home. It isn't far, and he will pick up the clothes on his way home from work. Some day they are going to be stolen before he gets here." "I won't, I won't," Tish repeated under her breath. She took the soldier's clothes and set the basket down before a drier. 'The grayhaired woman had dried her quilt and was, of all things, pressing it on the mangle. 'Tish put the basket of clothes in the drier and then returned to Lola. She looked again at the woman with the quilt. "Why don't you take my car and take Carl's lunch to him?" OLA just stared, but a man across the row of washers turned to his wife, "Ginny, did you hear that? Offers her car to a stranger." "She must be a wonderful person, Ben," the wife answered softly. Tish heard and a warm glow washed over her body. She took her key ring from her purse and offered it to Lola. The girl shrank back. "Go on. It is the blue one," and Tish pointed to it through the window. "Oh, I wouldn't think of taking your car. You don't know me. Besides." She glanced at the 272 washers and then at the children. Her face came alive. "No." 'Tish stopped her words. "The babies will stay here with me." "Tll have your car, and you will have my babies." Lola tried to sound facetious. "Why should you be so good to me?" She wanted to protest, but wanted more to use the car. The cool indifference of the woman with the quilt might have had something to do with it, so might the trio of giggling girls, or any number of other things, but all Tish said was, "I know how men are when they are hungry." Lola hugged her and in a tone that had risen several octaves said, "I haven't been in a real car for so long I have forgotten when." Then, as swishingly as her shape allowed, she was gone. "Lady," Ben spoke up, "if you had made me that offer I would willingly have left you all these dirty clothes for collateral." Ginny looked across at the children. "If she doesn't come back you will have the best of the bargain." Tish noted the wistful look on Ginny's face. Ben reached and patted her awkwardly. "You will never see your car again,' another voice cried. Already Tish was feeling a little squeamish. Another of her wild impulses, Irene would say. But she had no time to worry. With three different washings and two children, she had her hands and mind full. For the next hour she filled driers, folded clothes, and tried to pacify children. HE children had cried when their mother left, but in a few minutes settled down to the joy of being entertained. 'Tish pushed the cart about as she moved from one machine to another. She tried to answer Darlene's questions and gave her all the small articles, sox, handkies, washcloths, to fold. Then, without warning, Mark was out of his cart and insisting on helping. Then, "I'm hungry," he announced. "Ym awful hungry,' Darlene added, "Mama always lets us eat." She started for the door, and 'Tish had to rush to catch her. Darlene tried to pull away and started to scream. Mark followed his sister's lead. A gitl laughed. Another one said, "You sure took on a job for yourself." "Do you know where they live?" Ginny asked. Tish shook her head. "TI haven't the faintest idea." She asked Darlene, and in one minute had received four different sets of directions. "Would you like me to go get some milk and crackers for them?" This from Ben. "Ts it far?'' "It is quite a way,' Ginny answered, "but he hasn't anything else to do." Tish tried to give Ben some coins but he pointedly ignored them. Darlene started running back and forth. Mark tried to keep up with her. They collided and Mark fell and hit his head a resounding whack on the floor. Tish took him in her arms and tried to comfort him, but he would have none of it. "Mama, STRICTLY FOR SILENCE 9 Mama," he wailed, and tried to push himself from Tish's arms. "Oh, dear." 'Tish began to wonder why the soldier didn't come back — and the store must be a long way from here. She tried pulling clothes from a drier with one hand while holding Mark with the other. Darlene reached in and dragged a sheet onto the floor. "Here you are." It was Ben with a quart of milk and a box of crackers. "I brought a cup, too. It is only plastic, but Ginny can sterilize it." ISH felt tears in her own eyes. She went to the bench and wedged her weight between two occupants. Darline took one drink of milk and then pushed the cup away. "I want some of this. It's pretty." She pointed to a soft drink dispenser. "Want pitty," Mark echoed. "IT want a_ cracker." Darlene reached for the box. Tish put the milk bottle in the window while she opened the cracker box. She gave them each one. "More," Darlene demanded. Tish gave them each three and then, putting Mark on the floor, she went back to unloading the drier. "Watch out!" someone shouted. Tish whirled in time to see Darlene grab the milk bottle. She couldn't hold it and the milk splashed over her face and dress. A watcher snatched the bottle before it was completely emptied. 'Tish took a towel from her own laundry and began to mop up the spilled milk. There was enough left in the 


 bottle for each to have another good drink. Then Darlene began crumbling her crackers on the floor. Mark dropped his and began stomping on it. Tish had about had it. No wonder Lola had been so happy to get away. She took Mark and put him in his push cart. "Now you stay there," she commanded. Immediatelv he began to crv. "He don't want to be in that thing,' Darlene declared, "do you, Markie?" She tricd to lift him out, but his foot caught and the cart tipped over, landing both children on the floor. "Hey. What's all this noise about?" It was the soldier returned. "Now you cut it out." The masculine voice carried authority. Both voices stopped abruptly. "I know what you want, Bud." From a pocket the soldier brought a sucker for each of them. Any other time 'Tish would have strongly objected, but she was so relieved she said nothing. "I saw my boy," the soldier explained, "and I couldn't help buying the suckers." He laughed awkwardly. "Of course, I didn't intend to give them to him right away." He thanked 'Tish profusely and picked up his basket of folded clothes. "Lady, you are really a great guy." ISH found a broom and swept up the cracker crumbs. Her lame ankle ached, her head was dizzy, and her stomach empty. What could be keeping Lola? The clothes were all done and folded. Eventually, Tish succumbed 274 to buying a bottle of pink pop which was strictly against her ideas for feeding children. She took Mark in her arms and, finding room on the bench, rocked him back and forth until he went to sleep. "I want to go home," Darlene whined. She took hold of 'Tish's hand and tried to pull her toward the door. "I want to go home." "Let's wait a minute for Mama, shall we?" Tish coaxed as she laid Mark on the bench. She took a heavy towel from her own basket and folded it under his head. "Come on,' she said to Darlene, "we'll walk outside the window and [ll tell you another story." "I don't want another story. I want Mama." She pulled and tugged. Tish thought of calling Irene. She could not hold out much longer — but she would never learn, and she didn't want Irene to know about this. She looked at the pay telephone on the wall. She would wait another fifteen minutes. She gave Darlene another cracker, then, sitting on the chair by the mangle, took the girl on her lap. Darlene soon went to sleep, too, her head hanging heavy on 'Tish's arm. Tish began to consider calling the police to find her car, but she would never hear the end of that. There was one relief — the people who had seen her give the car keys to Lola had gone home long since. One thing Tish promised herself, from here on out she would really mind her own business. She was always too ready to trust people. Mark woke up and he awakened Darlene. Immediately they began calling for Mama. It was past noon — something had to be done. Tish started for the telephone, but stopped short when her car eased to a stop in front of the big window. Lola swung herself out and came swiftly into the room. The children ran for her, crying and laughing at the same time. Lola stooped and cuddled them. "Tm hungry." Darlene clung to her mother. Lola was wearing a different skirt now, and she looked very chic and very happy. "Oh, Mrs. Haworth, I am so sorry I was so long. I didn't realize how fast the time was going. You'll never know what you have done for me." "I hope you never know what you have done to me," Tish said under her breath, then added, "the radiance of your face is all the thanks I want. Now we must get these children home. Ill drive you home." HEN they were in the car Lola spoke again, "Mrs. Haworth, as you have likely guessed, Wylie, my husband, and I haven't been exactly pleasant to each other lately. I have been feeling so abused and housebound, and he has been so worried about meeting expenses. Well, driving that car lifted my spirits. I went home and dressed STRICTLY FOR SILENCE up, then I took his lunch down to him. He was so upset about my having your car, but when I told him how it came about, it did something to him. He told me how sweet I looked and said for me to wait." "You are sweet. Where to go." Lola gave directions, then continued, "Anyway, neither of us had had breakfast, so we found a little place where we could eat and talk. We haven't shared our thoughts in this way for — oh, ages. We unburdened ourselves and fell in love all over again. Conditions won't seem so crushing now, and it is all because of you. We decided as long as there are people like you, all is well with the world and we can't get pouty." As Tish entered her own home the telephone was ringing. It was Irene. "Mother, where in the world have you been? I have called and called." "Oh, I went on a short excursion, to a washateria." "Washateria. Of all things. I think you should let me know when you leave. What if something should happen to you?" "Something did happen, and you know what? I've found I am sort of crazy, but there are two or three things about me I like." Now tell me wo Me OF BeCaAtse it takes time to gain awareness of the manifold blessings of life, and to realize that the poverty and riches of life are within us, age augments life's values far beyond compensation for lost youth. — Nancy M. Armstrong 275 ¥, =". 7, KS aw. Pee BN I; S e@ @ ®@.. —.