[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 310 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities | Hulda Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]

" 


 East Central States Mission, District Relief Society Officers At Mission-Wide Convention Front row, seated, left to mght, district presidents: Doris Armstrong, Kentucky Central; Matilda Brunson, 'Tennessee Central; Wilma Honaker, Tennessee East. Martha Lassetter, Secretary, East Central States Mission Relief Society; Delilah H. Brown, former president, East Central States Mission Relief Society. District presidents: Kanes Bexfield, West Virginia South; Nyla Morgan, Kentucky West; Althea Dodd, West Virginia North; Mary Baker, Kentucky East. The other sisters in the picture are counselors, secretaries, and board members from the seven districts, which have sixty-two organized Relief Society groups, and 1,265 members.. Sister Brown reports that these women traveled a total of many hundreds of miles "to share and learn new ways for success in Relief Society. Each one contributed to the program's success. The theme of the convention was 'L. D. S. — let's do something through friendship and fellowship with happy enthusiasm.' " Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Visiting Teacher Convention June 5, 1962 Pauline Stevens, President, Big Horn Stake Relief Society, reports: "On June 5th, the Big Horn Stake Relief Society held a visiting teacher convention, honoring the wards which had made a record of 100 per cent in visiting teaching, and 100 per cent in Magazine subscriptions for the year 1961. A plaque with the names of the visiting teachers was presented to the wards by Louise Hawley, Education Counselor. A beautiful hand-painted plate, with the names of the Magazine representatives written in gold was presented to the Magazine representative in each ward which achieved 100 per cent or more in subscriptions. The stake Magazine representative, Bettena Graham, made these awards. "An actual experience of Lula Dillon of the Lovell Ward was put into the form of a skit and presented at the convention. This proved to be outstanding. About 300 visiting teachers enjoyed the afternoon. They received inspiration and information regarding their work. Refreshments were served from a beautifully decorated table." Juab Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music For Stake Quarterly Conference, December 2, 1962 Stake Relief Society President Blanche Brough stands at the right in the first row; organist Rheta Sperry, and chorister Norma Sherwood stand at the left on the front TOW. Sister Brough reports: ""This was a very satisfying experience for the women participating and provided inspirational music for the conference." 


 East Mesa Stake (Arizona), Spanish-American Branch Relief Society Officers Front row, seated, left to rght: Rafaela Lopez, First Counselor; Juana Flores, President; Maria Hernandez, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Paga, social science class leader; Maria de la luz Todd, work meeting leader; Teresa Pratt, literature class leader; Josephine Mortensen, Magazine representative; Graciela Estrada, theology class leader. Officers not in the picture are: Nora Romero, Secretary; Alice Kartchner, organist. Reta M. Reed, President, East Mesa Stake Relief Society, reports: "These women are doing excellent Relief Society work, and their accomplishments are many. The members are all very active and enthusiastic. During 1961 the total average attendance exceeded their total enrollment. All meetings are conducted and the lessons given in Spanish. For their closing social, Sister Eva Pagan translated into Spanish, and the members presented the dramatization "The Place of Woman in the Gospel Plan.' 'This was very inspirational and well received by the large number in attendance. We are very proud of this group." Tongan Mission, Niue District Singing Mothers Present Music October 1962 Front row, seated, left to mght: Nuasa 'Togiaono; Kahumigi Togahai; Tuhemata Tafolua; Fuatino Piuti; Liuvaione Paegotau; Loematama Paegotau; Vineta 'Togahai. Second row, seated, left to right: Janette B. Wyatt, President, Niue District Relief Society; Alama Togahai; Matalanefe Mokanehau; Tufaina 'Tanevesi; Vetetama Lukupa; Mokesilinisa Sani; Vetehemana Togiamua; Sifahega Faneva, Secretary, Alofi Branch Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Mafoufou Hopotoa; Elder James L. Wyatt, President, Niue District; Misianeini Koloni; Foini Faneva, President, Alofi Branch Relief Society; Sifaata Haioti, Secretary, Niue District Relief Society; Mokakolikoli Piuti; Arahemata Paegotau; Miliama Vasu, First Counselor, Alofi Branch Relief Society. LaVera W. Coombs, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports: "None of these sisters has been in the church very long, and I think this is the first time they have had the opportunity of furnishing the singing for the district conference." French Mission, Nantes Branch Bazaar, September 29, 1962 Left to right: Anne Kayser, President, Le Mans District Relief Society; Marcelle Baussay, Secretary, Nantes Branch Relief Society; Julé Germaine, President, Nantes Branch Relief Society; Lucienne Band, Second Counselor, Nantes Branch Relief Society. Lucilla M. Hinckley, President, French Mission Relief Society, reports: "On the 29th of September, 1962, the Nantes Branch Relief Society held their bazaar. A recreational program was presented, and a sale of cookies, cakes, and candy resulted in raising funds for this branch organization. Of those in attendance, sixty per cent were investigators and friends of the Church." 


 Danish Mission Relief Society District Presidencies and Branch Presidencies and Secretaries Meet In Copenhagen, September 29, 1962 Florence B. Thorup, President, Danish Mission Relief Society, reports this mspirational and outstanding meeting of the Relief Society officers: "September 29th and 30th were not only bright, sunny autumn days in Copenhagen, but there was a feeling of excitement and great happiness here. Women from the entire land of Denmark met together for the first time, for two wonderful days filled with activities and instruction that will improve every phase of Relief Society work.... Class leaders were given the opportunity to see a class demonstration of a well-prepared lesson. The secretaries enjoyed the slides and message of 'A Record Shall Be Kept,' which was translated into their own language. At a special meeting for all district and branch officers, the sisters were given the challenge of having a thousand members of the Relief Society by the end of the Relief Society year. This means that our present enrollment of 500 or 520 will, and can be, doubled.... The sisters expressed a desire to do this. "Emphasis was placed on the visiting teaching program, and many wonderful testimonies were given by some of the visiting teachers on the importance of this great work. Many work meeting ideas were given, and an interesting event of the convention was a display of Danish handwork. 'There were many kinds of exquisite lace, needlepoint, and knitting. 'There was a beautiful display of hand-painted china, oil paintings, handmade dolls, and other interesting displays. 'Time was taken from the busy schedule to have a delightful luncheon together. A special song was written for the occasion.... A highlight of the convention was the concert given by the seventy-voice Singing Mothers chorus. 'The hall was filled to capacity, and the songs were rendered in a beautiful and thrilling way.... Our closing session was enjoyed by all the sisters, and counsel was given by the Relief Society presidency: Florence B. Thorup, Sara Dresso, and Inger Rasmussen.... I think one of the greatest benefits from this wonderful experience was the feeling of sisterhood and companionship and love for one another...."