[Vol50 | April 1963 | Page 286 | Poem | Country Auction | Ida Elaine James]
Country Auction Ida Elaine James A grandmother's treasures of a long-gone year Are gathered together for the public, here: Her bureau, marked with homely scars and dents, (It held unfailingly for me pink peppermints). A shabby rocker covered with time-worn chintz Used long ago for twilight lullabying, Soothing children's hurts and weary crying; Rugs that she once diligently braided By lamplight, with their colors long since faded. Upon this whatnot, treasures stand at rest: A conch shell with a sea-song in its breast, Wax flowers under glass, each old knickknack With its own story-treasured bric-a-brac. Almost a fragrance rises to convince The nose of jelly from sturdy kettles, mince And pumpkin pies; here heavy flatirons tell Of patient hands and fluted miracle. Now they wait amid the busy clamor The final sounding of the auction hammer — Safe in my heart are locked, where they will stay, The memories of their golden long-gone day. 286 Joan H. Haskins HEN I was five years old, an imitation diamond ning, costing ten cents, was my most valued possession. My parents bought this ring for me during a vacation trip. I was continuously holding my finger to a window so that when the light from the sun fell on the stone, a multitude of colors emitted from it. I was delighted with my ring and _ never grew tired of admiring its beauty. But, one morning in the hurried confusion of packing to leave our hotel room, my precious ring was left lying on the edge of the bathtub. I had placed it there so its brilliance would not be dulled as I bathed. It was not until we had traveled too far from the hotel to return, that my bare finger reminded me of my forgetfulness. This childish episode was called to my mind one day recently, as I looked through my children's pockets prior to washing their clothes. Each pocket contained two or three rings intermingled with a variety of other gimmicks. Earlier that morning I had found a Popeye ring behind the couch, and an Indian one in the pin dish. These were not expensive rings— most of them had been cheap prizes, but as I gazed at the bits of 288 tin, I recalled my sparkling diamond and the great joy it had brought to me. I wondered if we weren't doing a wrong to our children by giving them too much. The wrong lay not only in too many cheap rings, but in all their other material possessions. Cathi, our four-year old daughter, had more dolls than she could stuff into her buggy. 'The boys could scarcely walk through their room without stepping over quantities of trucks, baseball equipment, and every contrivance Santa's toy shop had ever manufactured. Our children, with their many toys, had been deprived of one of life's greatest pleasures—the pleasure of anticipation. We had satisfied their every whim. Not one of them had saved for weeks to obtain enough money to buy a toy of his choice. We had, foolishly, rushed out and bought it for him. I determined to change this. Ralph Waldo Emerson voiced this idea when he stated that one of the most important factors in shaping his life had been want. Wendell Phillips said: "Wants awaken intellect.... The keener the want, the lustier the growth." I recalled the corncob dolls and the hand-carved whistles that were the playthings in my past. Wanting a toy then had led children to improve their skill and inventiveness as they made these items. Not long ago while skating at a public pond, this same inventiveness was being demonstrated by a small, vivacious boy. He _ lacked skates, so was shuffling across the ice in an oversized pair of rubber boots. As I talked to him, he enthusiastically told me that he would receive his skates next Christmas. He was anticipating the possession of his skates with the secret inner glow that comes from wholesome desire, but, while waiting for his prize, he was enjoying himself in his big boots as much as any of the other children with their fanciest ice skates. Apparently, his parents had taught him the important lessons of frugality and self-control. At past Christmases I used to feel like a greedy giant, as I viewed the bewildered remains of a bevy of nonsensical gifts given our children, who, overcome with the number and complexity of playthings, usually ended the day by turning to an old familiar toy, rather than coping with the impossible task of deciding which new one to try.