UNOBLITERATED STILL Dott J. Sartori When the wintertime that fills Every footprint on these hills Shall make the mountain slope as white As the summer moon tonight, I shall still see columbine And blue clematis that twine In the thickets, and the doe With her swollen udder go Bounding out a lace design. The summer canyon shall be mine And memory retrace the trail Unobliterated still. Palestine Dr. Lehnd Hargrave Creer Head of the Department of History and Political Science, University of Utah Part II [This is the last installment of the final article in the series by Dr. Creer on the historical background of some of the countries involved in the present war. The map of Palestine appeared in the Magazine for December 1944.  Ed.] IN the administration of their mandate obligations with regard to Palestine, the British were too ready to believe that the French would show genuine consideration for Arab hopes and ambitions elsewhere. In this they were to be mistaken. While, in 1936, the French permitted the twin republics of Lebanon and Syria to become established, they have yet to promise the much-sought-for independence of these states. Hence, the Arabs have become increasingly discontented. French maladministration, too, in Syria, culminated in the infamous Druse Revolt in 1927. The British have been unduly optimistic, also, in that they have consistently entertained the opinion that the economic advantages occasioned by the Jewish occupation of Palestine would overcome racial and political prejudices there. It is true that the increasing prosperity of Palestine occasioned by the successful efforts of the Zionists to reclaim the land and to develop the natural resources of the country, for awhile, did allay the hostility of the Arabs. But, when the number of Jewish immigrants increased until by 1929 some 160,000 had entered the country and it was feared that a complacent minority might soon become an aggressive and ambitious majority, the Arabs became increasingly restless and flared up into open revolt in 1929. Page 22 On September 1, 1922, Sir Herbert Samuel, British High Commissioner, promulgated a constitution for Palestine. It provided for a high commissioner, a commander-in-chief and an appointive executive council. There was also to be a legislative council, consisting of the high commissioner and twenty-two deputies, ten of whom were to be appointed by the high commissioner and the remaining twelve (eight Moslems, two Christian, and two Jews) to be elected. The Moslems, however, considered the arrangement to be unfair, and refused to participate in the elections. Thereupon, the high commissioner was obliged to govern with the aid, only, of an appointive council. Friction between Arabs and Jews crystallized into a violent Anti-Jewish onthrust in August 1930. The Arabs complained particularly of the British land legislation which, they claimed, had enabled the Zionist to buy up large portions of the none-too-plentiful arable land, thus threatening the existence of thousands of Arabs. They also objected to the type of Jewish immigrants, who, they declared, were refugees of the lower classes from Russia, Rumania, and Poland, and these, they averred, entertained radical political philosophies, dangerous and inimical to the safety and security of the state. In the civil war which followed, 23 I understand this is for academic research on historical print culture. While I cannot make legal determinations about copyright status, I can help with OCR correction of this historical text excerpt.
Here is the corrected transcription:

lowed, several Jewish villages were attacked and more than 100 Jews killed. The British Government rushed warships and supplies to the scene and quickly restored order. A Royal Commission was then appointed by Sir Walter Shaw, established "the Arab feeling of animosity and hostility toward the Jews, consequent upon the disappointment of their political and national aspirations, and for their economic future." But of this important report is worth reproducing here.
The Arab population, whilst baking the advantages enjoyed by the Jewish settler, views with apprehension their increasing rapidity, while the land available for their sustenance has decreased by about 250,000 acres. This area has passed into Jewish hands. It can now be definitely stated that at the present rate, and even with the present methods of Arab cultivation of the land, there is not a large margin of land available for agricultural development by new immigrants, with the exception of such underdeveloped land at the various Jewish organisations hold in reserve.
It was further pointed out that the Jewish Promotion Fund, which rented land to the Jews, forbade the employment of Arab labor on its soil, and that the policy of the General Federation of Jewish Labor was to import Jewish workers rather than to hire bindles Arabs.
THE publication of the Shaw report caused the British Government to modify its policy, and to suspend, indefinitely, immigration permits already issued to some 2,500 prospective Jewish immigrants. This action was enthusiastically received by the Palestinian Arabs, who now look forward confidently to a far greater part in the government of the state by supporting the constitution of
1922. But the Jews, both within and without Palestine, were angry. Dr. Chaim Weizmann resigned as president of the World Zionist Organization. The British Government was accused of "a monumental act of bad faith," "betrayal" and of "almost impartial lack of gratitude." But the MacDonald Government (1931) insisted that it was simply striving to carry out the three-fold task of giving the Jews a National Home in Palestine, of dealing fairly with the large Moslem majority, and of preparing the land for eventual self-government.
In accordance with the recommendation of the Shaw Commission, still further investigations were undertaken in Palestine. Sir John Hope Simpson spent three months inquiring into problems of land settlement, immigration, and the development of the mandate system. The Hope Simpson Report was published in October 1930. This was followed by a government statement of policy, known as the Lord Passfield White Paper. Both documents supported the Shaw Report and endorsed the new British policy of restricted immigration. However, in 1932, the government relaxed its immigration restrictions to the extent that it modified Jews to Palestine provided they were farmers, merchants, or businessmen, who possessed at least $2,500 in capital. It was also announced that a like quota of 4,500 would be permitted during a six-month period, commencing October 1, 1932. By 1935, there were in Palestine more than 500,000 Jews, and the amount of land held by them had increased to 141 km. On the close of World War I (1918), Jews in Palestine were reported to have a population of 60,000 in 1933, and to be increasing at the rate of 15,000 a year. As the number of Jewish immigrants steadily increased until the number of those entering Palestine in 1935 reached 61,854 as compared with 42,359 for 1934 feeling hardened only 5,249 for the year 1929, and the despite the restrictive immigration policy adopted by the British Government following the publication of the Shaw Report in 1930 striction between Arabs and Jews became more intense, and culminated, finally, in the Arab National Strike and boycott of 1936. Jewish population in Palestine had increased from seventy-eight to eighty-one square miles in 1919, to over 130 per square mile in 1936. By 1937, the total population was nearly 1,400,000, of which about 400,000 (or over one-fourth) were Jewish. According to informed observers, it was calculated that if immigration were allowed to continue at the rate reached in 1935, it would overtake the Arab figure in twelve years, and that if it continued at only half the rate, at 30,000 per year, the two peoples would be approximately equal in 1960. As the year 1936 approached, the prevailing Arabic unrest in Palestine was heightened by a number of external incidents. Among them was the war mentioned above against Italy in Ethiopia, the conflict with its serious repercussions affecting both the British and the French in Egypt and Syria, both neighboring Arab states. In Syria, the Arabs successfully demanded and received a guarantee of republican government. A Memorandum filed by the Palestinian Arabs, in November, 1936, by the Grand Mufti on his return to the British High commissioner the price of future Arab co-operation. The most important demands included: (1) the establishment of a democratic government, (2) prohibition of the transfer of Arab lands to the Jews, and (3) a drastic curtailment of the immigration of Jews. The White Paper issued for the bitter purpose, a "competent committee" should be set up "to determine the absorptive capacity of the country" and that "there should be an immediate interim suspension of the Jewish immigration."
Failure of High Commissioner Sir Arthur Wauchope, to respond satisfactorily to Arab demands, and led to the proclamation, on April 19, 1936, of an Arab National Political Strike directed against the British Mandatory Government. Organized terrorism was let loose upon the countryside. There were strikes in the towns; guerilla warfare in the highlands; looting and armed bands of Arabs roamed over the whole of Palestine. During the six months that the strike was in progress, there were about 400 Jewish and 1,600 Arab casualties. Quick military action by the British brought the Strike to an end in October 1936.
Like previous uprisings, the National Arab Strike was followed by the dispatch of a British Court of Inquiry, this time the Peel and Woodhead Commission, which was to investigate the underlying causes and to propose remedies." The "underlying causes" of the friction were found to be the same as those which had led to the disturbances of 1920, 1921, 1929, and 1933, namely, "the desire of the Arabs for national independence and their hatred and fear of the establishment of the Jewish National Home." Among the recommendations made by the Commission were the following: adequate political representation for the Arabs through a Pan-Arab assembly; restrictions and safeguarding of the sale of Arab lands; censorship, for the time being, of Jewish immigration; and finally, the formation of Arab cooperative societies on the same pattern as those founded by the Zionists; and the increased restriction of Jewish immigration based upon the principle of "political" and "economic absorptive capacity of Palestine," which, for five years after its initiation, would limit Jewish immigrants to an annual maximum of 12,000 persons. The Commission's one revolutionary recommendation, however, was the surgical operation of partition. The following illuminating extract from the Peel Report explains the reason for this suggestion:
The application to Palestine of the Mandate System in general and of the specific mandate in particular implied the belief that the obligations thus undertaken towards the Arabs and the Jews respectively would prove in course of time to be mutually compatible owing to the conciliatory effect on the Palestinian Arabs of the material prosperity which Jewish immigration would bring to Palestine as a whole. That belief has not been justified, and there seems to be no hope of its being justified in the future. 
Reduced to its simplest terms, the recommendation of partition envisioned the establishment of two sovereign independent states, plus a mandated area or enclave, which should contain Jerusalem and Bethlehem. The Arab state would comprise Trans-Jordan Palestine, and Transjordania. The Jewish National Home was to encompass Northern Palestine, including the Jezreel and Esdraelon valleys, and all the fertile coastal plain. It was intended that the mandated area should include Jerusalem, Bethlehem, and Nazareth, together with a corridor extending to the former by the Mediterranean seaboard. The Commission even further recommended that the Mandatory Government should keep open an Arab corridor to the Mediterranean, debouching from the Jewish enclave with a terminus at the proposed Arab port of Jaffa. The MacDonald Government should likewise guarantee Arab access to Gaza and Haifa, with shared participation. These was further recommendations that a new and re-stated for the relative infertility of their lands by a stipulated grant of 2,000,000 pounds. The proposed Jewish National Home would, by the Peel recommendation, be reduced in size to an area equivalent to that of the State of Delaware, but it would include, in the better sense of the word, the more productive areas of Haifa and Tel Aviv, the latter, the target important city area in Palestine. It was stipulated, further, that both Arab and Jewish states would be required to enter into military alliances with Great Britain, and that, for the present, the important naval base and anchorage terminus at Haifa would be left in British hands.
The Peel Report was not well received by either the parties most involved. The Arabs rejected the report uncompromisingly. They demanded unequivocally an arrangement which would regulate the Jews to minority status throughout the whole of Palestine. The Twentieth Zionist Congress was not satisfied with the proposed new state boundaries, yet recommended further negotiations with the British Government along the lines of partition. They declared themselves more in favor of the scheme or provisional cantonment; a plan whereby existing communities of Jews or Arabs would be formed into separate political entities or units, under the direction of a central or federal government. The Congress very sharply criticized the Peel recommendation with regard to further immigration restriction.
Although the British Government at last formally approved the Peel Report, opposition was so strong to further partition plans that in 1938 that the Cabinet voted to table the plan; pending further study. Meanwhile, civil war again flared up in Palestine. Beginning in 1938, "riots, sniping, bomb throwing, assassinations, banditry and inter-race outrages were of almost daily occurrence." The Government sought to re-establish order through reinforcement, hangings, and execution. In July 1938, marines were landed at Haifa and additional troops ordered to the interior. In light of these circumstances, it is not surprising that the British authorities in November 1938, announced that the Government had abandoned the plan for partition and that a new and definite plan was put forward, but it was stated that an effort would be made to iron out the difficulty through conferences with Arabic and Jewish leaders early in 1939.
The proposed conference met in London on February 7, 1939, but it was apparently foredoomed to failure, for the Arabs stubbornly refused to sit with the Jewish delegates, or to discuss their mutual problem with them. So the Arab and Jewish delegates met separately with the British representatives of the British Government, and the conference became, in effect, two parallel conferences, and when the British representatives sought to be mediators. In the end, as it turned, by both groups, the conference came to an untimely end.
AS a result of the failure of the Arab-Jewish conference, the British Government, on May 17, 1939, issued its official statement of policy with regard to Palestine in what is commonly known as the MacDonald White Paper. This document envisaged the establishment, within ten years, of an independent Palestinian state, in which both Jews and Arabs were to participate equally, according to population, in a representative form of government. When once established, the independent state would be obligated by treaty relationship only with Great Britain. A transitory or probationary period of ten years was specified for the development of self-government. If, at the end of this period, the British Government should consider that the establishment of the independent states should be postponed, the British administration could remain unchanged. PALESTINE 27 The representatives of the people of Palestine, the Council of the League of Nations and the neighboring Arab states for arbitration. During the ten-year probationary period, the independence of the state as envisioned by the high commissioner, and the Jewish immigration limited to 75,000 that is, for the first five-year period ending June, 1944; and thereafter, Jewish immigration would not be allowed, except an additional 25,000 which might be admitted as soon as it might be possible to arrange for their maintenance in Palestine, "as a contribution towards the solution of the Jewish refugee problem/' As an answer to claims and counter-claims and "in order to avoid all future misunderstandings/' this important paper was prefaced with the following statements with respect to previous commitments: (1) Regarding the Arab claim to independence, the British Government announces its adherence to the view that the whole of Palestine west of Jordan was excluded from Sir Henry McMahon's Pledge. (2) Regarding the character of the Jewish National Home in Palestine, the British Government announces its adherence to the Balfour Declaration of 1917 which was given in the Command Paper of 1922; namely, that the terms of the Balfour Declaration did not contemplate that Palestine as a whole should be converted into a Jewish National Home, but that such a home should be founded in Palestine. (3) The fact that more than 300,000 Jews had immigrated to Palestine since 1922 and the fact that the National Home had risen by 1939 to some 450,000 approximately one-third of the entire country, gave conclusive evidence that the Mandatory Power had been carrying out its obligation. While the Arabs have acclaimed the new British policy, the ardent Zionists have denounced it, and maintain that "it betokens a surrender to Moslem Terrorism." The British answer to this latest criticism, is well expressed in the concluding paragraph of the Chamberlain White Paper: His Majesty's Government cannot hope to satisfy the partisans of one party or the other in such a controversy as the Mandate has aroused. Their purpose is to be just as between the two peoples in Palestine whose destinies in that country have been affected by the great events of recent years, and who, since they live side by side, must learn to practice mutual tolerance, goodwill and co-operation. Complicated and difficult as the Arab-Jewish problem in Palestine appears, the writer ventures the following conclusions: (1) The only hope of the realization of Zionist ambitions for establishment of an exclusive Jewish National Home, a state controlled politically by a preponderate Jewish population, rests either in the application of the principle of expatriation or partition to the solution of the problem. In the case of the former, the problem is complicated because of the intense nationalistic aspirations of the Arabs already on the land; in the case of the latter, in the opinion of the writer the more feasible solution, the problem becomes involved because of the vast amount of capital already expended by the Zionists in the reclamation of the whole of Palestine, and because of the intense cultural and religious interests of both Jews and Arabs in shrines such as are included in the proposed Jerusalem enclave and which, in any plan of partition, must necessarily be excluded from the control of either race. (2) It appears from an examination of the postwar commitments with regard to Palestine, that both Zionists and Arab Nationalists have exaggerated their claims and falsely accused the British Mandatory Power of a breach of faith in their behalf. (3) Whatever the ultimate solution, this much is certain, the success of any future homeland for either Arabs or Jews in Palestine will depend upon their collaboration, cooperation, and mutual conciliation.