Rock Roses of Nazareth." The second prize of twenty-five dollars is awarded to Vesta Pierce Crawford, 1067 East 5th South, Salt Lake City, for her story "The Bureau." The third prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Dorothy Clapp Robinson, 119 Eiden Drive, Boise, Idaho, for her story "Though A Host Encamp Against Thee." This short story contest, first conducted by the Relief Society General Board in 1941 as a feature of the centennial observance, was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by the editor of a publication of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories are to be published consecutively in the first three issues of the Magazine for 1945. Prize-vanning stories become the property of the General Page 12 Board and may not be published by others except by written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at regular Magazine rate at the time of publication. A writer who has received first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. Thirty-one manuscripts were submitted in the contest for 1944. This contest is stimulating Latter-day Saint women to do creative writing in the field of fiction. The General Board congratulates the prize-winning contestants and expresses appreciation to all whose work was entered in the contest. The General Board sincerely thanks the three judges for their excellent service in selecting the prize-winning stories, and acknowledges with appreciation the work of the General Board's short story contest committee. Stories, together with photographs of the award-winning contestants, will appear in the Magazine as follows: January 1945 "Rock Roses of Nazareth" by Ethel Newman Eccles; February 1945 "The Bureau" by Vesta Pierce Crawford; March 1945 "Though A Host Encamp Against Thee" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson. Winning Story Annual Relief Society Snort Story Contest First Prize Story Rock Roses of Nazareth Ethel Newman Eccles A bluish mist hung over the silent little village. The murky darkness trailed off into pale gray above the rolling hills in the distance. Spring in Nazareth was a paradise, and it was spring. Nazareth lay among the hills 1200 feet above the sea. It could be reached from the fertile plain below only by a tedious climb through a narrow, steep, and rough mountain path. Here lived Lydia. Her house was one of the finest; its courtyard one of the most comfortable, and its roof commanded an unsurpassed view. Here she sat in her leisure hours by the window. With soft, brown eyes she looked across the low-roofed houses, built of yellow-white limestone, so dazzling in the sun. From her smooth forehead fell the white woven veil of the young Jewish maiden. It fell in weighty folds about her slender figure. Her dress was low-cut, and of the finest fabric. It spread about her lovely, sandal-clad feet in cascades of purest white. The room was bare save for a few mats lying evenly against the wall. The water jars stood before the door. The landscape of distant hills, the nearer view of square-roofed houses with their purity of line and color. ETHEL NEWMAN ECCLES and the immaculate interior of the tiny house well befitted the spirit of the beautiful Jewish maiden, for Lydia's heart was pure. Many a long day this lovely girl had gone about her household chores with one, great, overwhelming thought lighting the way: The Christ, yes, he was to come; to be born as a tiny babe; and greatest of all great joys, he was to come to a Jewish maiden. Lydia raised herself from the low stool. She passed her hand lightly over her forehead and down her cheeks to her sounding throat. Through the soft folds of her dress she passed her hand, and at last gently she bowed her head in thanksgiving for this strength and loveliness. For might not the Holy Father see fit to crown her womanhood with the greatest of all the desires of a Jewish maiden: to be the mother of the Christ?
Lydia hugged the thought to her heart. In her strong young arms she held, in her mind's eye, the tiny body of her little son. And, in the overwhelming positiveness at the thought, she prayed, in the purity of her soul, that she, of all the Jewish maidens, might be the one chosen to bear God's Son.
Darkness fell, and still Lydia knelt by the little white stool, her head bowed in prayer and her heart beating in wild desire. A strange peace came over her, an assurance that the Holy Father, with his understanding kindness, was near; that he had heard her prayer, she was sure. Would he answer it?
The enveloping peace that had come to her in this sweet hour gave her hope, enveloping, heavenly hope.
It was here that Joses found her when he came with jars of fresh water from the well the small one great hope that some day Lydia would become his wife; for were they not of marriageable age and of the same station?
He stepped lightly over the threshold, leaving his sandals outside. He lifted Lydia to her feet and with his arms around her, with a smile, gently he put his hands to his shoulders and pushed him away. "No, Joses," she said, "the Christ has not yet come to earth. Let us forget that we once had thought..."
The pallor of her face told him what was in her mind; this decision after many sleepless nights. In that moment the young Jewish boy knew that Lydia would only live for the coming of the Son of God.
Each day Joses came as of other days. He carried her water jars and attended to the little tasks that needed to be done. Always the beloved the stately moving Lydia with hungering eyes. Always she was kind, always grateful, but always living in the dreamy future. For her there was but one great thought the Christ would come to a Jewish maiden, one of them. For this Lydia lived.
Day followed day, and her longing became more intense. More and more she lived in herself, and more and more shut Joses away from her life. She busied herself in her garden, which yielded for her sweet-smelling anemones, pink phlox, rock roses, and the asphodel. On her day she went to the synagogue, but only by the back street, and veiled.
Joses still brought the water jars, but never lingered into the shadowy evenings. Finally, he stopped coming at all. Lydia took the water from the well alone. And the blows were too heavy for her were left undone.
From her window she could see Joses often walking with other Jewish maidens along the sloping vineyards, or hear his pleasant laugh rise clear from among the white and scarlet blossoms of orange and pomegranate. She had the dreadful temptation to call Joses back to her. She longed to make him happy; and loose folds about her. The light of yet, surely, the dear Lord would hope and sweetness shone from her meet out to Joses a goodly portion, clear young eyes as she rose at Joses' for had he not been always a good entering. Nazarene? He told her simply and reverently of the message of Christ's birth that SPRINGTIME 

came again to had been carried over the land. LyNazareth; the glorious spring dia rose and stood before him, poised time that only Nazareth can know, as if ready for flight. For one short Lydia remained joyous and hope moment she stood before him thus, ful through the brilliant sunshine while the light of hope faded from and color. But when later the trees her face. Were barren and the low, dry hills Joses watched her anguish. He spread endlessly in the distance, dis took her two warm hands in his. Turbing thoughts took hold of her, "My Lydia," he said, "other sons tortuously. It was only a few and daughters of our Father will be months later that the signs for which sent to earth. Mayhap one will come everyone watched, and which every yet to you that will fill your heart's one knew, came to pass. Longing." Cradled in a manger and honored "Think you, Joses, that my long-by shepherds and wise men, the ing for the Son of God has been Christ, the Savior of the world, was wrong in his sight?" Lydia asked, born. True, to a Jewish maiden, but "For you, my Lydia, there is no not to the lovely Lydia. Wrong," Joses replied. He put his It was not long after the coming arms tenderly about her. This time of the Savior that the news came to she did not draw back. The tears Lydia. It was Joses who brought it dried on her lashes. She took Joses' to her; not as a mockery or in the strong, kind hand in her own and spirit of exultation. Only that she dropping to her knees beside the lit-might need him now a friend. For tie stool, she prayed, only Joses knew the disappointment A quiet peace came over her. Lydia could feel. "Bless thou that other Jewish maid-He found her kneeling above the en with joy in her little Son." Thus low prayer stool. The folds of her she prayed because her heart was lovely dress and veil fell in soft, pure. Ethel Newman Eccles, a native of Salt Lake City now living in Washington, D. C., enters her work for the first time in the Annual Rehef Society Short Story Contest to emerge winner of first prize. Mrs. Eccles has for some time been writing prose, poetry, and fiction. Her early work was published in the Gold and Blue, a L. D. S. High school periodical, and later in Playground, issued by the Playground System of Washington, D. C. She was at one time special reporter for the Deseret News with a column in each Saturday edition. She is at present contemplating the publication of her work in book form. She is an active Relief Society worker; prior to her recent move to Washington, D. C, she was Relief Society president of the Cleveland District of the Northern States Mission. Here is the corrected OCR transcription:
She longed to make him happy; and yet surely, the dear Lord would mete out to Joses a goodly portion for had he not been always a good catering Nazarene?
SPRINGTIME came again to Nazareth, the glorious spring time that only Nazareth can know. Lydia remained strong and hopeful through the brilliant sunshine and color. But when later the trees were barren and the low, dry hills offered endlessly in the distance, disturbing thoughts took hold of her, nervously. It was only a few months later that the signs for which everyone had watched and which everyone believed in came to pass.
Lydia knelt in a manger and honored the Shepherds and wise men, the Christ, the Savior of the world, was born. True, to a Jewish maiden, but not to the lovely Lydia.
It was not long after the coming of the Savior that the news came to Lydia. It was Joses who brought it to her, not as a mockery or in the spirit of exultation. Only that she might need him now a friend. For only Joses knew the disappointment Lydia could feel.
He found her kneeling above the low prayer stool. The folds of her lovely dress and veil fell in soft, loose folds about her. The light of hope and sweetness shone from her clear young eyes as she rose at Joses' entering.
He told her simply and reverently of the message of Christ's birth that had been carried over the land. Lydia sighed and stood before him, poised as if ready for flight. For one short moment she stood before him thus, while the light of hope faded from her face.
Joses watched her anguish. He took her two warm hands in his. "My Lydia," he said, "other sons and daughters of our Father will be sent to earth. Mayhap one will come yet to you that will fill your heart's need."
"Thank you, Joses, that my longing for the Son of God has been wrong in his sight?" Lydia asked.
"For you, my Lydia, there is no wrong," Joses replied. He put his arms tenderly about her. This time she did not draw back. The tears dried on her lashes. She took Joses' strong, kind hand in her own and dropping to her knees beside the little stool, she prayed.
A quiet peace came over her. Bless thou that other Jewish maiden who will joy in her little Son." Thus she prayed because her heart was pure.

Ethel Newman Eccles, a native of Salt Lake City, now living in Washington, D.C., enters her work for the first time in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest by urging women of first prize, Mrs. Eccles has for some time been interested in writing. She is the author of "The Children of Shabbat," "Gold and Blue," a L.D.S. high school periodical, and later in Playground, issued by the Playground System of Washington, D.C. She was at one time special reporter for the Deseret News with a column in each Saturday edition. She is at present contemplating the publication of her wish in prose form. Before moving to her present winter, prior to her recent move to Washington, D.C., she was Relief Society Stake Magazine Worker in the Salt Lake Monument Park Stake.