[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Woman's Influence]
Woman's Influence
President David O. McKay
[Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1953]

A few months over one hundred and eleven years ago, the Prophet Joseph Smith met with the newly organized Female Relief Society. It was April 28, 1842, on which occasion the Prophet said:

I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth. This is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads.

On that occasion divine sanction was bestowed upon the Relief Society by the Prophet of the Lord. No wonder you have wielded and will continue to wield such influence in the Church and country. Today, I have nothing but commendation in my heart for the work of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. I congratulate the members of the presidency and general board particularly, and you presidencies of stakes and wards upon the increased enrollment during the past year. Nearly 8,000 new members have joined the ranks to render service to the poor, to increase testimonies, as we have learned, and to improve and stabilize our homes.

I was pleased to note in one of your reports that 8,422 women participated in weekly welfare sewing and work meetings, and nearly 4,000 took part in sewing at sewing centers—a real service to the needy, preparing the necessary clothing and equipment for those who need your assistance. This service was rendered by 12,358 women, and that is only one project. Nearly 9,000 were active in other projects, or a total of 21,343 women rendering voluntary service for the good of others. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me."

When I think of the influence you are exerting upon the lives of your fellow sisters in the various Relief Society meetings throughout the Church, my heart is filled with gratitude, and I look upon you as benefactors in very deed to humankind. Your lessons in social science, in literature, in nursing, in The Book of Mormon, so frequently quoted this afternoon—who can estimate the good, the cultural influence, of these teachings upon the Church and upon the communities! There is not a remote hamlet in any part of this Church but is benefited by the lifting influence of the Relief Society. Anybody who travels from stake to stake, or from mission to mission is impressed with this universal uplift. Anybody who goes into the homes in any part of the Church, if he opens his eyes, will see the beneficial effects, probably in better housekeeping, in neatness of dress, in the tone of conversation, in care and training of children, etc.

Truly when the Prophet turned the key in the name of the Lord, he bestowed a power upon that organization which has wielded an influence beyond comprehension by any individual.

Sister Spafford and your counselors, members of the general board, you presidents of Relief Societies, and you members, to you all I say, God bless you!

Especial Appeal

I feel at a loss to give you any specific instructions regarding the various phases of Relief Society work, but I have in my heart this afternoon a feeling, a desire, to make an especial appeal to you assembled and to all women in the Church—an appeal which is based upon the realization of your influence.

They say that man is mighty,
He governs land and sea;
He wields a mighty scepter
O'er lesser powers that be;
But a mightier power and stronger
Man from his throne has hurled;
And the hand that rocks the cradle
Is the hand that rules the world.

It is because I believe in the potency of woman's influence that I am making an appeal this afternoon. It is because I believe with Tennyson that it is "the woman who makes us most" that I am going to ask that we make a special effort, not only in teaching our young people, but in guarding them.

Someone has truly said:

Into the hands of every individual is given a marvelous power for good or evil—the silent, unconscious, unseen influence of his life. This is simply the constant radiation of what a man really is, not what he pretends to be. Every man, by his mere living, is radiating sympathy, or sorrow, or morbidness, or cynicism, or happiness, or hope, or any of a hundred other qualities. Life is a state of constant radiation and absorption; to exist is to radiate; to exist is to be the recipient of radiation.

Man cannot escape for one moment from this radiation of his character, this constantly weakening or strengthening of others. He cannot evade the responsibility by saying it is an unconscious influence. He can select the qualities that he will permit to be radiated. He can cultivate sweetness, calmness, trust, generosity, truth, justice, loyalty, nobility—make them vitally active in his character—and by these qualities he will constantly affect the world.

I was deeply impressed with the appeal of your president, Sister Spafford, in that masterful address on testimony, wherein she said, "Mothers, you must feel your testimony before you can influence or give of that testimony to your children." I am not presuming to repeat the exact words. How fundamentally true that is!

Of the responsibility of women in wielding this influence, Ruskin writes:

There is not a war in the world, no, nor an injustice, but you women are answerable for it; not in that you have provoked, but in that you have not hindered.

Do you remember reading in Marmion, how the young woman who accompanied him in his wars, dressed as a page, buckled on his armor? Commenting on that custom, Ruskin says:

The buckling on of the knight's armor by his lady's hands was not a mere caprice of romantic fashion. It is the type of an eternal truth that the soul's armor is never well set to the heart unless a woman's hand has braced it, and it is only when she braces it loosely, that the honor of manhood fails.

Believing with all my heart upon the influence of woman, and particularly upon her influence in the home, I am going to ask for your co-operation in counteracting one or two dangerous, threatening evils. I am not presuming that you need this. I am merely appealing for you to exert an influence upon our young, whom you love and whom I love, whom you trust as I trust.

After turning the key, to which I have already referred, the Prophet, in the very next thought, gave instruction regarding the attitude of wives toward husbands, and husbands toward wives.

At the turn of the century in 1901 there was distributed throughout the Church with the approval of the presidency and general board of the Relief Society, a book entitled Woman, one paragraph of which I think is so applicable I am going to read it:

As for woman, wherever she goes and whatever her mission—for travel or for service—her native instincts draw her homewards.

She may have unusual power and be distinguished for versatility; she may have artistic ability and attain distinction on the stage or in the studio; she may make bargains behind the counter or "be mighty in ledger and great upon change," she may serve as shop-girl, toil as field-hand or in factory, be typist, ticket agent, street car conductor; she may write with the power of George Eliot and Elizabeth Barrett Browning; she may skillfully wield the pen and prove a very magician in journalism and in the nobler literatures; she may possess great persuasive power in the pulpit or on the platform; she may display diplomatic ability in the lobby or cabinet; she may fill the professor's chair or preside over college or university; she may, like Joan of Arc, be the heroine of many battlefields, or, like Victoria, reign with "all the royal markings of a queen," but wherever a woman is, or whatever a woman does, she is at her best, her divinest best, at home! There is the center of her power. Amiel says, "Woman is the salvation or destruction of the family. She carries its destiny in the folds of her mantle."

It is wonderful what a responsibility each wife and mother carries. A successful wife and mother is responsible, first, for the physical welfare of her children. Second, she must have the qualities of a teacher. She should be, indeed is expected to be, not only a disciplinarian but one who wisely guides her children in their quest for truth and knowledge. In this she becomes a confidant—she warns—she protects. Third, she must be a business woman. Fourth, upon her, even more than upon the father, depends the child's guidance in spirituality.

God bless our mothers! If we had in the world all good mothers, we could soon hasten the millennium.

For me to comment even briefly upon these responsibilities would occupy more time than I have at my disposal this afternoon, so I shall confine my remarks to the second named responsibility—woman's influence as teacher, disciplinarian, guide, protector.

After a lecture by the late Francis Wayland Parker, a great Chicago educator, a woman asked:

"How early can I begin the education of my child?"

"When will your child be born?" asked the educator.

"Born?" she gasped. "Why, he is already five years old."

"My goodness, woman," he cried, "don't stand here talking to me—hurry home; already you have lost the best five years."

Control of Children

Do you know, I believe that it is absolutely true. If mothers would get control of their children throughout childhood and youth, they should get control of the child before he is five years of age. That is fundamental, and it can be done in kindness and in love.

Now, so much for influence, so much for the responsibility and opportunity of mother. I do not want to be a pessimist, but I must speak as I feel, and warn if necessary, and I am going to take you into confidence and speak, however, of something which is just as apparent to you as to anybody.

A few years ago there was carried on in the United States a campaign of advertising of cigarettes that resulted in from two-fifths to three-fifths of the women and girls in our nation taking up the habit of smoking. You will remember how artfully that campaign was carried on. Incidentally there was evidence in that, indirect evidence at least, of the divinity of the Prophet Joseph's mission.

In the first paragraph of the Word of Wisdom, he said, "In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you, and forewarn you," etc.

Designing men! That campaign, I repeat, was one of the most clever, ever carried on in these United States, and the result was what the designing men intended to attain, that nearly three-fifths of the women in America took up the habit.

Today, there is spent over four hundred billion dollars annually on tobacco in one form or another.

Whether the smoking of cigarettes causes cancer or adversely affects the heart; whether cigarettes irritate the throat, or interfere with digestion, are questions that draw forth divergent answers. But upon one thing all authorities seem to agree, and that is that, aside from whatever pleasurable effects the smoker might experience, there are no beneficial effects derived from the habit. One looks in vain for any measurable good that comes from this expensive indulgence.

However, for members of the Church—and here is our message—there is one outstanding reason for not using it—the Church speaks against its use, for the Lord himself has said, "Tobacco is not good for man."

The world has a right to expect that a person or an organization will live up to his or its pretentions, and we have an obligation to the Church to refrain from the use of tobacco and strong drink, and if we cannot live up to that pretention, we merit the censure and condemnation even of those who are not of us.

Mothers, members of the Relief Society, let us wherever possible exert an influence, silent it may be, active it should be, against our young girls taking up this habit—and our young boys, for we have no double standard of morality.

You, my dear sisters, may be responsible by not hindering or not exerting an influence against the campaign to induce smoking among women. It is not easy for some of our girls to say no when the cigarettes are passed, but let us, in our homes at least, win such confidence of our daughters and sons that we can influence them to refrain. How happy they will be some day that you did it. Some day they will be mothers, and I fancy that there is not a girl living who would not have her child, her daughter or son say:

She of whom you speak,
My mother, looks as pure as some serene
Creation minted in the golden moods
Of sovereign artist; not a thought, a touch,
But pure as lines of green that streak the white
Of the first snowdrop's inner leaves.

I love to think of my mother just that way. I may be old-fashioned, but I think I could not if I felt she had the stain of nicotine in nerve, or sinew, or muscle.

Evil of Unchastity

There is another evil which threatens the welfare of the individual, the home, and the Church, and that is the evil of unchastity. When an alleged "most sensationally publicized book in history" draws the following conclusions from an inadequate survey, it behooves fathers and mothers to become enlightened regarding what their sons and daughters are thinking. To name one or two of these conclusions will justify this reference:

1. That what we have been teaching our daughters about sex is all wrong.

What a glaring statement to give to the world in an alleged "most sensationally advertised book."

2. That chastity may often do more harm than good.
