[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Fashion Note]

Now winter writes a fashion note: "This year, earth wears a zebra coat >! 'Good Will Toward Men'"' Helen Hinckley Jones HE familiar "good will toward f= men" of the angels' Christmas song took on a new and sweeter meaning for our family the year that Emilie, a vibrant young French student, lived in our garden apartment, and all roads seemed to lead from Pensacola, Florida, to Altadena, California.
When we invited Emilie to share our family Christmas, she said with real regret, "I'd love to, but I'm expecting a friend from Pensacola." "Bring him, too," Ivan, my husband, urged, knowing that a young cadet away from his beloved France | for the first time might be a little homesick for a family. At one o'clock on the morning of December 24th, an urgent chiming of our front door bell awakened us and, sleepily, Ivan stumbled to the door. I lay listening. A greeting in halting English Ivan's response in easy French (Ivan served his mission in France).... A relieved torrent of French from the stranger Acall to Emilie. Her high-pitched bubbling speech added to the men's voices. I have a listening acquaintance with French, but not at that distance nor at that speed. My curiosity practically pushed me out of bed before Ivan returned.
Louis had arrived, and Emilie had directed him to Cal Tech's International House. "Why didn't you put him to bed in the guest room?" I asked. "Didn't think of it," Ivan confessed, and added, "he had a ride Page 832 back down town, anyway. He came with an American cadet on his way to Fresno."
Four o'clock.
Again the door bell. Again Ivan.
Stumbled sleepily through the house.
Again a conversation in French.
Louis back? I wondered. But no.
This voice was softer, younger, the accent different, the upward inflection more pronounced. Finally — footsteps mounted our uncarpeted stairs.
Returning to bed, Ivan said that Jacque, another cadet, had hoped that Emilie could direct him to a French hotel. He had her name and address from Louis. Since Jacque "had no English," Ivan had felt paternal and had sent him up to our guest room. Our daughters, six and _ nine, watched Jacque at breakfast with much the same expression that they gaze through the bars at the wonderful animals in the zoo, as Ivan and Jacque—by this time Ivan and I were affectionately calling him Petit Jacque, not because he was really small, but because he seemed so terribly young — chatted and laughed and demolished a platter of pancakes and sausage. FTER breakfast we took him over to Hollywood to meet a "friend by mail" who had offered to show him the town. We gave him exact instructions for returning to us by bus, but when evening came and we had to leave for a family dinner engagement, we went reluctantly, after pinning a French note for him to the front door.