[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Creative Courtesy]
850 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1953 
ially,  it  is  poor  taste.  It  is  also  an 
unnecessary  expense. 
Plain  panel,  sheer  curtains  may 
])c  combined  with  either  side  or 
pull  drapery.  It  is  the  general  prac- 
tice, today,  to  hang  drapery  panels 
so  that  the  inner  edge  comes  only 
to  the  beginning  of  the  glass.  The 
purpose  is  to  make  the  window  ap- 
pear as  large  as  possible  and  not  to 
obstruct  the  view.  Hanging  them 
against  the  wall,  rather  than  over 
the  glass  as  was  done  formerly, 
makes  lining  unnecessary,  unless  it 
is  desired  for  greater  beauty  in  hang- 
ing. 
Beautiful  window  hangings  har- 
monize with  all  other  furnishings  in 
the  room  both  in  style  and  quality. 
They  are  a  point  of  interest,  but 
only  one  of  many  in  the  room,  and 
so  do  not  attract  attention  away 
from  other  decorative  features. 
Harmony  with  furnishings  in  the 
room  is  not  enough.  Window  hang- 
ings must  also  harmonize  with  the 
exterior  of  your  home  in  color  and 
style. 
As  a  rule,  good  quality  fabrics 
cost  less  over  a  long  period  than  do 
those  of  poor  quality.  They  do  not 
become  limp  when  washed  or 
cleaned;  they  are  free  of  sizing  that 
is  easily  shaken  out  or  removed  by 
cleaning.  They  are  also  guaranteed 
preshrunk  or  sanforized,  colorfast  to 
washing  or  dry-cleaning  and  to 
light.  Read  the  labels,  so  that  you 
will  know  the  special  qualities  of 
the  material  and  how  to  care  for  it. 
Before  you  buy  a  fabric  for  win- 
dow treatment  look  at  the  fabric  in 
folds.  If  it  is  a  sheer  material,  look 
through  it  at  a  window,  to  be  sure 
it  is  well  woven,  that  it  lets  the 
light  through,  but  softens  glare  and 
provides  privacy  if  that  is  desired. 
Be  sure  the  design  of  a  patterned 
fabric  is  equally  pleasing  when  hung 
in  deep  or  shallow  folds,  if  it  is  to 
be  drawn  across  the  window,  part 
of  the  time. 
Following  are  some  of  the  newer 
curtain  and  drapery  fabrics  and  an 
outline  of  what  you  can  expect  of 
each  of  them: 
Nylon  is  outstanding  for  tensile 
strength.  It  washes  easily  and  requires  a 
little  ironing  with  a  warm  iron.  Draping 
qualities  are  poor,  and  it  is  only  moderate- 
ly resistant  to  wrinkhng.  Sun  rots  it. 
It  may  lose  as  much  as  forty  per  cent  of 
its  strength  in  three  months  in  a  sunny 
window.  This  still  leaves  it  as  strong  as 
rayon  marquisette,  however.  A  little 
starch  added  to  nylon  curtains,  while 
laundering  will  give  them  a  Httle  body 
and  increase  their  resistance  to  soil. 
Orion  is  considered  to  be  one  of  the 
best  curtain  materials  on  the  market.  Good 
quality  should  last  from  eight  to  ten  years. 
It  has  good  resistance  to  sunlight,  and  its 
draping  qualities  are  better  than  nylon. 
It  sometimes  shrinks  when  hung  over 
radiators.  The  fiber  is  difficult  to  dye, 
and  the  woven  fabric  is  not  fast  to  strong 
light.  Orion  is  gradually  being  woven  in- 
to drapery  material,  and  has  great  po- 
tenial  values  as  an  upholstery  fabric,  but 
as  yet  the  supply  is  short.  It  is  easily 
washed  and  requires  little  pressing.  It 
should  be  remembered  that  orlon  is  high- 
ly flammable. 
Fiberglass  is  one  of  the  most  satis- 
factory of  all  fabrics  for  curtains,  but  is 
high  in  cost.  The  color  is  an  integral  part 
of  the  fiber.  Resistance  to  abrasion  is  low, 
therefore,  curtains  or  drapery  made  of  it 
should  not  be  used  where  they  may  be 
handled  or  brushed  against  excessively. 
Never  rub  or  press  fiber-glass  over  several 
thicknesses  of  material  as  in  pinch  pleats, 
as  it  will  break.  A  caronizing  treatment  is 
now  being  given  fiberglass  to  prevent 
breakage  of  fibers.  Clean  fiberglass  before 
the  material  becomes  very  soiled,  by  soak- 
ing the  curtains  in  a  mild  soapsuds  and 
lifting  them  up  and  down  in  it.     Never

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
851 
rub  fiberglass.     It  requires  no  ironing  and 
lasts  indefinitely. 
Ceron  is  a  new  and  highly  promising 
drapery  fabric,  but  is  still  in  the  testing 
stage  for  many  qualities. 
Dacron  has  recently  come  on  the  mar- 
ket as  curtain  material,  but  the  supply  is 
short.  It  has  less  run  resistance  than 
orlon  and  resembles  nylon  in  wearing 
qualities.  It  has  more  static  electricity 
than   most  other  fabrics. 
Acetate  Rayon  has  good  draping  quali- 
ties, and  pleasing  luster,  but  the  tensile 
strength,  while  the  material  is  wet,  is  low. 
Know  what  the  instructions  for  cleaning 
are  before  buying  acetate  rayon.  Most 
acetate  rayons  must  be  dry-cleaned.  Ruf- 
fled curtains  that   cannot  be  home  laun- 
dered may  prove  to  be  very  expensive,  re- 
gardless of  a  low  initial   cost. 
What  You  Can  Do  to  Lengthen 
the  Life  of  Curtains 
1 .  Rotate  curtains  between  sunny  and 
less  sunny  windows,  and  from  top  to  bot- 
tom. 
2.  Never  let  curtains  or  drapery  "flip" 
at  open  windows. 
3.  Prevent  curtains  from  being  rained 
on. 
4.  Clean  regularly.  Soil,  dust,  and  grime 
are  much  harder  on  curtains  than  is 
cleaning. 
If  you  must  economize  in  some  way, 
let  it  be  in  qimlitv  of  material,  rather  than 
quantity.  Few  things  make  a  room  look 
cheap  and  skimpily  furnished  as  do  win- 
dow hangings  drawn  taut,  or  with  only 
a  shallow  fold  or  two. 
oCi iterature — The  Literature  of  England 
Lesson  38-Robert  Browning  (1812-1889) 
EJder  Biiant  S.  Jacobs 
Textbook:  The  Literature  of  England,  II,  Woods,  Watt,  Anderson,  pp.  655-709 
For  Tuesday,  March  16,  1954 
Objective:  To  study  Browning's  life  and  works,  that  we  might  come  to  see  more 
fully  the  unifying  values  they  contribute  to  each  other. 
TN  1871,  when  he  was  fifty-nine,      peal  to  us  more  than  they  did  to 
Browning  expressed  amazement      his  own  age. 
that  poetry  of  the  sort  which  he      j  .,    07   x  7 
wrote  should  have  sold  2500  copies 
in  five  months.  Although  Browning 
societies  were  widely  organized  dur- 
ing the  last  two  decades  of  the 
poet's  Hfe  for  the  purpose  of  ap- 
preciating and  understanding  him 
communally,  the  poet  had  com- 
paratively little  recognition  during 
his  own  lifetime.  He  has  been  re- 
vered far  more  in  the  sixty  odd  years 
since  his  death  than  he  was  in  the 
sixty  before.  He  has  been  acknowl- 
edged as  one  of  the  greatest  Vic 
torian  poets;  certainly  he  was  the 
most  modern,  since  his  writings  ap- 
The  outward  events  of  his  life 
are  well-known  (see  text,  pp.  655- 
657) .  His  wealthy  banker-father  was 
a  man  of  expanding  intelligence  and 
liberal  view  who  had  amassed  a  li- 
brary of  more  than  6,000  books. 
Here,  under  his  father's  approving 
eye,  Browning  first  began  reading  so 
widely  that  he  became  one  of  the 
most  learned  of  English  poets.  Here 
he  first  learned  to  love  the  classic 
writers;  here  he  came  to  know 
European  history  so  well  that  in  his 
later  poetry  he  could  catch  in  a  few 
lines  the  essence  of  an  entire  his-

852 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER   1953 
torical  age  or  culture.  And  so  suc- 
cessfully during  his  life  did  he  ''ran- 
sack all  the  ages"  for  poetic  ma- 
terial that  he  is  generally  acknowl- 
edged our  greatest  historical  poet. 
From  his  father  he  also  acquired 
a  sane  balance,  a  lack  of  affectation, 
and  such  an  air  of  practicality  that 
to  his  contemporaries  he  appeared 
a  prominent  business-man.  Brown- 
ing had  a  strong  social  instinct.  He 
loved  crowds,  conversation,  dining 
out.  Indeed  he  was  ''the  poet  of 
personality." 
From  his  mother  he  inherited  a 
desire  to  create,  and  an  intense  love 
of  music  and  the  sister  arts.  She 
appears  to  have  been  highly  sensi- 
tive and  nervous;  so  was  Browning, 
as  revealed  in  his  cryptic,  staccato 
poetic  style  and  in  his  occasional  so- 
cial irritabihty  and  impatience.  He 
never  gave  a  public  speech,  claim- 
ing his  nerves  could  not  bear  the 
tension.  After  his  marriage,  despite 
his  social  nature,  he  never  once 
dined  out  alone  during  those  in- 
numerable evenings  when  his  wife 
was  not  well  enough  to  accompany 
him.  Most  important,  his  mother 
bequeathed  him  her  religious  fervor 
and  her  idealistic  belief  in  the  good- 
ness of  life,  love,  and  the  God 
above. 
Before  Pauline,  his  first  book  of 
poetry,  appeared  in  1833,  when  he 
was  twenty-one,  Browning  had 
already  dedicated  his  future  to  art, 
and  his  wise  parents  approved.  But, 
felt  Browning,  in  order  to  commu- 
nicate truth,  he  would  have  to  break 
free  of  the  current  restraints  of  po- 
etic form  and  create  within  his  lines 
the  effect  of  actual  speech. 
Before  his  marriage  to  Elizabeth 
Barrett  in  1846,  at  the  age  of  thirty- 
A  Perry  Picture 
ROBERT  BROWNING 
1812  -  1889 
four.  Browning  continued  writing 
at  his  usual  slow  rate  of  twenty-five 
or  thirty  lines  a  day  and  polishing 
himself  as  a  citizen  of  the  world  by 
trips  to  Russia,  Northern  Europe, 
and  three  trips  to  Italy,  of  which 
he  often  said  fondly,  "Italy  was  my 
university."  He  read  deeply  and 
probed  with  zest  into  what  later  he 
defined  as  the  seven  major  interests 
of  his  life:  philosophy,  history,  po- 
etry, painting,  politics,  Greek,  and 
music.  Never  did  he  pose;  his  life 
was  normal,  healthy,  and  full.  After 
the  death  of  his  wife,  he  wrote  of 
death,  "Let  me  taste  the  whole  of 
it."  This  was  his  creed  for  hfe. 
With  radiant  enthusiasm  he  be- 
lieved that  life  should  be  lived  in- 
tensely and  that  he  should 
.  .  .  paint  man  man,  whatever  the  issuci 
Make  new  hopes  shine  through  the  flesh 
they  fray  .... 
It  was  with  this  honest  rapture