[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Elder Richard L. Evans]

Ivins Member of the First Council of Seventy ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS HEN, at the last general conference of the Church, Richard L.
Evans was sustained for ordination into the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, the First Council of the Seventy and the Seventies of the Church gave over to a more extended service of the Church one of its most loved and appreciated members. In going into the Council of the Twelve, Elder Evans becomes one of a group of three brethren who have been taken from the First Council of the Seventy to serve the Church in another capacity. In 1889, Abraham H. Cannon, who had been a member of the First Council of the Seventy for seven years, was ordained an _ apostle, which position he held for an equal term of seven years until his death. In 1854, Jedediah M. Grant, father of our recent President Heber Jeddy Grant, was taken from the First Council to become a counselor to President Brigham Young. Now Elder Evans becomes a third to.
Receive such recognition. 'The Council feels highly complimented and extends the best of wishes to Richard L. | Elder Evans was thirty-two years of age when he was set apart to the First Council and has served it fifteen years. Abraham H.
Cannon was twenty-three years of age when set apart to the First Council, while Jedediah M.
Grant was twenty-nine when he went into the First Council. It is highly probable that no member of the Church today is more widely known than Brother Evans. His development from youth has been noteworthy, but it is not our purpose to follow him through its many ramifications. It may, however, be noted that he was an excellent student through high school and college; an excellent missionary for the Church in Great Britain; ls a devoted husband and father; has had a most important part in the development of the radio business of this State. Page 805 
 —DECEMBER 1953 ELDER RICHARD L.
EVANS AND HIS FAMILY
In front, center, Elder Richard L.
Evans and son William; At right Alice Thornley Fivans; at back, left to right: Richard L. Jr., John, and Stephen. It is in this field that he has become most widely known. His direction of the Temple Square Mission, together with his 'Tabernacle Choir broadcasts, has given him opportunity to teach the gospel to many thousands of people. His appeal is always uplifting. It is not because of this, however, that the members of the First Council have loved and admired him, for he has brought to the counsels of this body a quiet serenity, dignity, and excellence of judgment that are rare indeed. If he may ever be annoyed or ruffled, he rarely shows it; he is calm, considerate, deliberate, and wise in consideration of such questions as may arise in the Council. He loves his fellows, always desiring to be helpful. He has been intensely devoted to the sbetiienment of the Seventies of the Church. Is it any wonder, then, that we shall miss him from our counsels? We shall, however, feel that he may now have greater opportunity to aid and influence for good a greater number of people. May the Lord extend his life and crown his labors with even greater success.

silver stamp box which had traveled with him from the green valleys of England across the arid plains to the mountains of the West. Then it had been taken back with him thirty years later when he returned to his homeland as a missionary. Thus, the little stamp box had made three journeys across the AtJantic Ocean and three journeys across the American continent, and for many years of his long life the dear grandfather had kept the stamp box. It was a precious gift to a granddaughter who was proud to be a partaker of the English heritage in America. It is not the cost of the gift, but the spirit of the giver which imparts the value. It is the feeling of being remembered, of being esteemed. Relief Society women in bearing their daily gifts of love and charity have learned that the supreme gift, available to all, is the gift of one's self, the bestowal of one's time and interest and love upon another. Page 863
