[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Robert]

Rien The Literature of England Lesson 38—Robert Browning (1812-1889) Elder Briant S. Jacobs Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, pp. 655-709
For Tuesday, March 16, 1954
Objective: To study Browning's life and works, that we might come to sce more fully the unifying values they contribute to each other. [N 1871, when he was fifty-nine, Browning expressed amazement that poetry of the sort which he wrote should have sold 2500 copies in five months. Although Browning societies were widely organized during the last two decades of the poet's life for the purpose of appreciating and understanding him communally, the poet had comparatively little recognition during his own lifetime. He has been revered far more in the sixty odd years since his death than he was in the sixty before. He has been acknowledged as one of the greatest Victorian poets; certainly he was the most modern, since his writings appeal to us more than they did to his own age. Life Sketch The outward events of his life are well-known (see text, pp. 655- 657). His wealthy banker-father was a man of expanding intelligence and liberal view who had amassed a hbrary of more than 6,000 books. Here, under his father's approving eye, Browning first began reading so widely that he became one of the most learned of English poets.
Here he first learned to love the classic writers; here he came to know European history so well that im his later poetry he could catch in a few lines the essence of an entire his- 852 torical age or culture. And so successfully during his life did he "ransack all the ages" for poetic material that he is generally acknowledged our greatest historical poet.
From his father he also acquired a sane balance, a lack of affectation, and such an air of practicality that to his contemporaries he appeared a prominent business-man.
Browning had a strong social instinct. He loved crowds, conversation, dining out.
Indeed he was "the poet of personality."
From his mother he inherited a desire to create, and an intense love of music and the sister arts. She appears to have been highly sensitive and nervous; so was Browning, as revealed in his cryptic, staccato poetic style and in his occasional social irritability and impatience. He never gave a public speech, claiming his nerves could not bear the tension.
After his marriage, despite his social nature, he never once dined out alone during those innumerable evenings when his wife _ was not well enough to accompany him.
Most important, his mother bequeathed him her religious fervor and her idealistic belief in the goodness of life, love, and the God above. Before Pauline, his first book of poetry, appeared in 1833, when he was twenty-one, Browning had already dedicated his future to art, and his wise parents approved. But, felt Browning, in order to communicate truth, he would have to break free of the current restraints of poetic form and create within his lines the effect of actual speech.
Before his marriage to Elizabeth Barrett in 1846, at the age of thirty  A Perry Picture
ROBERT BROWNING 1812 - 1889 four, Browning continued writing at his usual slow rate of twenty-five or thirty lines a day and polishing himself as a citizen of the world by trips to Russia, Northern Europe, and three trips to Italy, of which he often said fondly, "Italy was my university." He read deeply and probed with zest into what later he defined as the seven major interests of his life: philosophy, history, poetry, painting, politics, Greek, and music.
Never did he pose; his life was normal, healthy, and full.
After the death of his wife, he wrote of death, "Let me taste the whole of it."
This was his: creed for life.
With radiant enthusiasm he _ believed that life should be lived -intensely and that he should..
Paint man man, whatever the issue!
Make new a shine through the flesh they fray. It was with this honest rapture LESSON DEPARTMENT and patient kindness that he won Elizabeth Barrett, and saw her weak body become rejuvenated by the power of love. As a budding poet, Browning had burned with impatience to proclaim his mind to the world; now, as lover, he proclaimed his love for Elizabeth with the same surge of power. For many reasons their choice of Italy as a sanctuary was inevitable.
Here for thirteen years.
They lived a creative, married love.
Each respected the other's character and poetic gifts, though Browning was convinced that his wife's talent far outshone his own.
Browning himself had small means in his own right, and his wife had been disinherited, but they lived on money left her by an aunt. Then, when their son was born, their mutual friend, Kenyon, insisted on giving them a hundred pounds annually, and, when he died in 1856, he left Browning his large fortune.
Elizabeth immortalized their marriage relationship in her "Sonnets to the Portuguese."
When she died, in 1861, Browning returned to England to supervise his son's education. At first he withdrew from society, but he realized this was a denial of his true self, and soon Wordsworth, Landor, Carlyle, Leigh Hunt, and Dickens were among his friends. He made several pilgrimages to Italy, the shrine of his remembered happiness, but never could he visit Florence, their Italian home. For five years he gave himself completely to creating The Ring and the Book, surely his masterpiece, and one of the great poems in English literature.
Using brilliantly his de- 853 vice of the dramatic monologue, Browning tells of a Roman murder — case as seen through the consciousness of eleven different persons, illustrating how various and relative and illusive is human truth. The length and complexity of The Ring and the Book make it difficult for study in this course in Relief Society, but anyone who desires to make a detailed study of the period it portrays and of Browning's technique as a poet, will find it most interesting and rewarding.
Browning continued to write during his 60's and 70's and his publications met with increasing success.
Late in 1889, in his 77th year, he was visiting at the home of his artist-son in Venice. Chilled, and nursing a weak heart, Browning was confined to his bed in the afternoon when a telegram came from England announcing the excellent sale of "Asolando," his most recent book.
That evening he died. _ Fittingly, the epilogue to the book applies to Browning himself, particularly the stanza: One who never turned his back but marched breast forward, _ Never doubted clouds would break, Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph, Held we fall to rise, are baffled to fight better, Sleep to wake. | (text, "Asolando," Epilogue, stanza 3) The Believing Browning Throughout his lifetime Browning did not have the rightful audience he should have had because of the words and the style he used. His rough, disconnected sentence patterns bewildered readers accustomed to 'Tennyson's easy clarity and polish. 
 —DECEMBER 1953
Once this barrier of form and word was dissolved through patience and understanding of Browning's intent, his readers found in_ his poems two qualities which filled two of their most urgent needs: first, his power to dissect and analyze, and second, his strong affirmation of moral right and of God's kindness and justice. In 1855
Browning wrote to Ruskin, "A poet's affair is with God, to whom he is accountable and of whom is his reward." In the final analysis, the origin of Browning's power lies within his spiritual, creative self.
Since he believed it so invincibly, Browning had to proclaim that God's in his heaven— All's right with the world! (text, "Pippa Passes,"' page 657) His poetry is filled with tragedy and human weakness, yet it is never tragic nor pathetic. He was indeed interested in humanity, and no richer set of characters exists in English literature outside Chaucer and Shakespeare. He never satirized the weakness of his characters; instead, his desire was to "paint man man," but always he remembered that no person is entirely bad, and that immortality inevitably follows our present existence. "Man was made to grow, not stop," wrote Browning in "Death in the Desert'; therefore the grievous sins in Browning's opinion are those sins which prevent him from progressing eternally above his present state, namely despondency, sluggishness of spirit, mdifference, and intellectual pride.
According to Browning, life is a great testing ground. How base, then, he believes it is to attain all one's aspirations! Ah, but a man's reach should exceed his grasp, Or what's a heaven for? ("Andrea Del Sarto," 97, 98) page 695, lines Thus speaks Browning through Andrea Del Sarto, who exemplifies ""failure-in-success." Acclaimed, arrived, having achieved all he set out to do, this technically skilled but soulless painter has failed in life, says Browning, because he has asked too little of it, and of himself. As a result, "successful" though he is, he loses everything of worth. 'This doctrine' of '"'failure-in-success'"' ls also prominent in "Rabbi Ben kza," (to be studied in the next lesson) and "Saul," which we shall now briefly discuss. Saul Browning himself said "in Saul are some of my best lyrics." 'The Biblical inspiration for the poem is to be found in First Samuel 16:14- 23, which tells how King Saul, deeply troubled in spirit, sent for the shepherd boy, David, who played and sang for the king until he was restored. The entire episode is being recalled later by David, once more alone amid the beauties of nature based upon divine law.
David recollects how, summoned by the king's messenger, he was greeted outside Saul's tent by Abner, cousin to the king, who tells how, for days, Saul has hovered between life and death, making no sound nor motion within the tent.
Bolstering himself with prayers, the boy David enters the tent to discover there: LESSON DEPARTMENT A something more black than the black: ness—the vast, the upright. A a a IIc stogd as crect as that tent-prop, both afas stretched out wide On the great cross-support in the center, that goes to each side; He relaxed not a muscle, but hung there. Saul, drear and stark, blind and dumb. (text, "Saul," pages 672, 673, lines 24, 28-30, 33) Accompanying himself on_ his harp, David sings shepherd songs, songs of death and of marriage, and Saul finally groans (section 7, page 673). Encouraged, David's spirit leaps to praise. Our manhood's prime vigor! * oe KK Re Hiow good is man's life, the mere living! How fit to employ All the heart and the soul and the senses forever in joy! (text, page 674, lines'68, 78, 79) To this statement the lost Saul responds, recovers somewhat, allowing David to sing further of life's past joys and future hopes.
David praises the hope arising from the knowledge that we live most truly in the deeds we do (lines 163-171). Slowly Saul recovers, sees David, and tenderly bends the boy's face back and looks at him full on: Thus held he me there with his great eyes that scrutinized mine— And, oh, all my heart how it loved him! (text, page 677, lines 231-232) The full truth of God's love and goodness bursts upon David, and, discarding his harp, David speaks with burning power of God's love, based on law, whereby man may achieve success and know God's love, if he but uses the highest fac- 855 ulties within himself. 'The lyrical power mounts through section 17, and in 18, God is acknowledged the giver of man's highest gifts: the will to action and belief in his goodness.
Realizing this, says David, man cannot despair since tis not what man Does which exalts Him, but what man Would do! (text, page 678, line 294) Finally he says: "Tis the weakness in strength that I cry for! My flesh, that I seek In the Godhead! I seek and I find it. O Saul, it shall be A Face like my face that receives thee; a Man like to me, Thou shalt love and be loved by, forever; a Hand like this hand Shall throw open the gates of new life to thee! See the Christ stand! (text, page 679, lines 307-311) As contrast to this tremendous spiritual and dramatic climax, David tells quickly of his retreat through the crowds to the reassuring peace of his hills.
Surrounded by the harmonious workings of nature, he comes finally to realize that God's law is responsible for all peace, whether within such a tormented soul as Saul's or within his own.
This poem achieves irresistible power when read aloud, providing the reading is done with reciprocating power, sincerity, and belief. If time runs short, sections 5, 6, and 14 would surely be among those omitted first, but if too much cutting is done the unifying picture of the powerful whole will be spoiled.