[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Editorial | Title: North Main Salt Lake]

CHURCH HISTORY AND MODERN REVELATION
Joseph Fielding Smith A two-volume reference work for use with the seven-volume "Documentary History of the Church"... Made very usable by a most complete index. Easy to read and understand, it fulfills a need long recognized by Church history students. Set of two volumes—$7.50 rz ale aor. Deseret t Book Co. 44
East South Temple -- Salt Lake City. Utah CRON PEEROY ty OVO AN YT ap * 4 n or. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44
East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me the following circled books: 1 (If ordering single volumes, state volume desired) 2 3 for which | enclose check ( ) or money order (_ ) for $ Residents of Utah please add 2% sales tax. HOW TO GIVE YOUR SON A college education FOR christmas AALS SSSA You can put a Beneficial Life Policy under your Christmas tree this year. Within its pages will be the guarantee of an insured savings plan which will provide those education dollars you need, when you need them. SAE ee SN Sprdsbs) SSS The value of a college education for a boy or girl is measured in thousands ot dollars of additional earnings over a working lifetime — yet for a premium that is small in comparison, you can guarantee there will be no financial reason why your child must stand on the doorstep, waving goodbye to his high school friends as they go off to college! The life insurance plan combines the advantages of spreading college costs over the years until college time, plus a contract to guarantee the money will be there when college time comes— whether you are or not! Parents will agree that this 'gift with a future" is the best way to express the deep affection they feel for their loved ones. For further information write BENEFICIAL LirE INSURANCE COMPANY Dept. 1-A, Salt Lake City 1, Utah BENEFICIAL LIFE Sy making sure of we college for me, Pop, INSURANCE (COMPANY you've insured my David O. McKay, President Salt Lake City, Utat @ (*. Vie chance to make good!