[Vol40 | December 1953 | Sequence: 33 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial: The 124th Semi-Annual Church Conference | Author: Marianne C. Sharp]
the  semi-annual  conference  of  the 
Church. 
Following  the  close  of  the  con- 
ference, the  ground-breaking  cere- 
mony for  the  new  Relief  Society 
building  was  held  at  4:15  p.m.  at 
the  site  on  the  southeast  corner  of 
Main  and  North  Temple  Streets. 
President  Spafford  conducted  the 
brief  ceremony  which  was  witnessed 
by  most  of  the  General  Authorities, 
special   guests,   and   representatives 
from  the  stakes  and  missions.  The 
program  of  this  thrilling  event,  so 
long  awaited  by  the  sisters  of  the 
Church,  is  published  in  full  in  this 
issue  of  The  ReJiei  Society  Maga- 
zine. 
The  Official  Instructions  given  by 
President  Spafford  and  the  addresses 
by  the  general  presidency  appeared 
in  the  November  issue  of  the 
Magazine.  President  David  O. 
McKay's  address  appears  as  the 
feature  of  this  issue.  The  address 
by  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
will  appear  in  the  March  1954  issue; 
by  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  in 
January  1954  issue;  by  Blanche  B. 
Stoddard  and  Louise  W.  Madsen 
in  the  February  1954  issue. 
(^hnstmas 
Marilyn  Odell 
New  fallen  snow  and  frosted  windowpanes, 
Hurrying  crowds  and  homebound  trains; 
Carols  in  the  street,  bells  jingling  by, 
A  wreath  on  the  door,  a  star-studded  sky— 
These  are  things  of  Christmas. 
Shimmering  trees,  a  sprig  of  mistletoe. 
Cards  in  the  mail,  candles  aglow; 
A  roaring  fire  and  good  things  baking, 
Laughter,  good  will,  arid  cheer  for  the  taking— 
These,  too,  belong  to  Christmas. 
A  Savior  in  the  hay,  a  brilliant  star. 
People  to  worship,  from  near  and  far; 
The  glory  of  God,  the  joy  of  man— 
This  has  been  the  meaning  since  Christmas  began. 
Oh,  holy  night!

The  Relief  Society  Building 
Ground-Breaking  Ceremony 
Main  and  North  Temple  Streets,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Thursday,  October  i,  1953,  4:15  p.m. 
President  Spafford :  Members  of  the 
First  Presidency,  General  Authori- 
ties, Dear  Sisters,  and  Friends  of