[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. 
	Semi-Monthly Meeting of August 5th,
1899, in the 14th ward hall, Counselor
Elizabeth Webb presiding. Singing, "God
moves in a mysterious way." Prayer by
Sister Margaret P- Young. Singing,
“Arise, O glorious Zion." Minutes read
and approved.
	President M. I. Horne hoped the sisters
were not losing interest in this and other
meetings. Thought at the present time
more diligence was required of us. Spoke
of the law of tithing, and the necessity of
our observing this law; believed if we
did all the poor could be cared for, the
Temples supplied, and there would not be
a debt upon the Church. Spoke of the
necessity of mothers teaching their chil-
ren to be tithe-payers. There will only be
a few chosen to do the important things of
God’s work. "Let us wake up and not be
always the sleepy virgins. Let us appre-
ciate what God has given us and pay our
fast donations, for this is a law of the
Church." 
	Sister Jane James rejoiced that she had
had the privilege to see the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Sister Mary Morris made some excellent
remarks.
	President Zina D. H. Young said: "We
are all seeking after truth." Exhorted all
to come to meeting and bring their friends.
"God had said meet often and speak often
one to another, and a book of remembrance
is kept." Spoke of the necessity of women
keeping the commandments of God, for we
all feel the influence in our homes and else-
where. 
	Sister Brown believed all should come
together and hear the testimonies of
one another; she always loved to tell of the
glorious principles of the Gospel.
Sister Armeda Young spoke of the love
she felt for Sister Zina and Sister Horne,
our leaders; of her faith in the law of tith-
ing.
	Sister Nightingale spoke of the blessings
of the Lord to her, and desired to have
wisdom to raise her children.
	Another sister spoke of the promises 
God had made to the widows: they had
been fulfilled in her behalf. Spoke of the
increase of faith in her children through
the law of tithing.
	Sister Phelps believed a dark day was
coming to prove the Saints. She then
spoke in tongues; the interpretation was
given by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Sister Mair said she had received a great
many testimonies by attending these meet-
meetings. Thought we should attend to
our children and teach them by example.
	Sister Ellis had many things to be thank-
ful for. She always had a testimony.
	Sister Margaret P. Young had embraced 
the Gospel more than fifty years ago, and
she had always tried to obey the priest-
hood and attend to her duties. She had
ever honored President Brigham Young,
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she had
always loved President Brigham Young
and those who had succeeded him.
	Sister Liddle spoke of the blessings of
the Lord to her, and her firm belief in the
law of tithing.
	Sisters J. S. Woolley, Mary Morris and
Julia C. Howe, bore testimonies. 
President M. I. Home thought we should
increase in numbers. Announced the con-
ference to be held September 2nd; also
spoke of the necessity of storing grain.

[Column 2]
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing Doxology. Benediction by Sister.
Brown.
