ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	The conference of St. Joseph Stake was
held at Pima, June 17, 1899. Meeting was
called to order by President Elizabeth Lay-
ton. There were present on the stand of
the presiding priesthood, Presidents Andrew
Kimball and W. D. Johnson, besides
Bishops from several of the wards.
	After singing by the Pima ward choir
and prayer by Bishop John Taylor, minutes
of the preceding conference were read and
approved. Roll was called, showing
twenty officers present. Opening remarks
were made by President E. Layton.
	President Sarah Weech reported the Pima
Relief Society: said they had completed their
society hall and had for some time been
meeting in it.
	President Jennie Cluff, of Central, and
President Nancy Rollins, of Layton, re-
ported their respective societies.
	President Kimball said he was proud of
the Relief Society; that he honored it and
respected the officers and members of the
same. Had always, under all circumstan-
ces, according to his best judgment, per-
formed his duty in regard to them, and,
with the help of God, would continue to
do so.
	Elizabeth Moody, of Thatcher, who had
recently returned from a two years’
visit in Provo, was thankful to be at home
again mingling with the sisters with whom
she labored so long and diligently. She
had attended the Relief Society in Utah in
a ward capacity as also in their conference,
and did not think they were in advance of
our society, either in attendance or the
storing of grain. Encouraged the sisters in
their good work and asked God to bless all.
	Singing by the choir. Prayer by Broth-
er Peter H. McBride.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. Singing.
Prayer by President William D. Johnson.
Verbal reports of the wards were continued
by Josephine Curtis, of Eden; Dorothy
Nelson, of Bryce; Elizabeth Skinner, of
Graham, and Oliva Larson, of Mathews.
There being no representation from Frank-
lin and St. David, they were reported by
the Stake officers who had lately visited
them. Each of the branches was reported
as being in good working order, and all
seemed to have a desire to assist in the
furtherance of the cause.
	Stake Counselor Adelia Curtis said she
would, if she could be led by the spirit of
God, speak a few minutes to the teachers.


Said: “You sisters who are called to labor
in this capacity cannot afford to neglect
your duty. If you do not visit often,
make it thorough when you do. You must
go in humility, with a prayer in your
heart, and ask your Heavenly Father to
assist you. No office can be filled without
some sacrifice on the part of the officer. It
is sacrifice that brings forth the bless-
ings of heaven.” Asked for the faith and
prayers of the sisters.
	Ex-President Wilmarth East, who has
been greatly afflicted for the past four years,
was, by the kindness of some of the sisters,
taken to the conference, where she enjoyed
herself and the sisters enjoyed her presence.
She bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the Gospel, and urged the mothers to have
a constant watch over their children; also
spoke in tongues.
	A beautiful quartette, “There’s Room for
You to Anchor Safe in Heaven,’’was rend-
ered by members of the choir.
	President W. D. Johnson said there were
many things that could be talked of profit-
ably. All should understand and obey the
Gospel. These associations are organized
for the benefit of all. Each will be re-
warded according to her acts. Live as
Latter-day Saints, and God will add His
blessings.
	Statistical and financial reports were read
by the secretary. Remarks by Bishop
John Taylor.
	Sister Colman, of the St. Johns Stake,
was pleased to be in our midst. Though
she was among strangers she felt that we
were sisters. We should be kind and
thoughtful of the aged and infirm.
	President Elizabeth Layton urged the
sisters to do their duty as members of the
Relief Society, and to attend the officers’
monthly meetings. Was thankful for the
instructions of the brethren and pleased
with the reports of the sisters. Felt en-
couraged in her labors and knew that God
had and would continue to bless all who
serve Him.
	The names of the Stake officers were
presented by President A. Kimball and
unanimously sustained by the congregation.
	President Kimball spoke at some length
on the storing of grain. Said President
Young knew what he was doing when he
called upon the sisters to save grain. The
prophets did not make any mistake when
they said the time would come when a 
barrel of flour would be worth a barrel of
gold. Said this society was not organized
as a speculative body, but to care for the
destitute, comfort the downcast and save
what they have for a time of scarcity.
	Conference adjourned for six months
by the choir and congregation singing,
“Lord dismiss us.” Benediction by
Bishop George Skinner.
	SARAH WEBB, Cor. Sec.


