delivered her presidential address. Long
before the opening hour of half-past two
the hall was filled both in floor and galler-
ies. The scene was strikingly picturesque.
There were a few men present, scattered
here and there about the meeting; but all

[Column 2]
the ladies had come in bright toilettes, and
the hall looked a moving mass of color. In
the end gallery were two Salvation Army
lasses, in red jerseys and poke bonnets; a
group of ladies from India sat in the side
seats, in native costumes of soft muslin and
heavy gold bangles and earrings. On the
platform was a lady from China in full
native dress. She wore a bright scarlet
petticoat, over which was a loose deep
blouse of ruby silk. The sleeves of this
had deep cuffs of bright blue, on which was
worked some exquisite gold embroidery.
Behind her sat her Chinese interpreter.
		THE DELEGATES.
	On the platform were gathered all the
presidents, vice-presidents and accredited
delegates from the various countries. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, vice-president; Baron-
ess Alexandria Gripenberg, of Finland,
treasurer, and Miss Theresa Wilson, secre-
tary of the Council, were on the right and
left of Lady Aberdeen. The other dele-
gates on the platform were Mrs. F. H.
Gaffney and Miss Susan B. Anthony, U.
S. A.; Mrs. Bloomer, Mrs. Willoughby
Cummings and Mrs. Gibbs, Canada; Frau
Bieber Boehm, Germany; Fru Hierta Ret-
zius, Sweden; Lady Battersea and Mrs.
Creighton, Lady Hampden, New South
Wales; Fröken Henrie Forschammer, Den-
mark; Madame Klerck Von Hogendorp,
Holland; Lady Hamilton and Mrs. Henry
Dobson, Tasmania; Madame Bogelot and
Madame Oddo Deflon, France; Mrs. Flora
Annie Steel and Miss Mary Bhor, India;
Mrs. Neilson Hamilton, Persia; Dr. Cecilia
Grierson, the Argentine Republic; Madame
Shen, China, and Madame von Finkelstein
Mountford, Palestine. Delegates were also
present from Switzerland, Belgium, Italy,
Russia, Austria, Norway, Victoria, South
Australia, West Australia, Queensland,
Cape Colony and Iceland. The list of
women well known in public life in this
country who were scattered about the hall
would fill a column.
		THE SERVICE OF HUMANITY.
	Lady Aberdeen was greeted with cheers
from all pa[-]ts of the hall as she gave to all
the delegates a personal welcome, and ex-
pressed the hope that during their stay in
London they would feel themselves at
home. She went on to tell her hearers
that the movement was taking shape
differently according to the genius and
spirit of each people. This, she said, was
what they desired, so that their councils
should be truly national in character.
	“It will be asked, ‘How in the world
can such a conglomeration of associations
existing in so many different countries and
formed for so many various objects, some
actually opposed to one another, and com-
prising hundreds of thousands of women
of different religions, different races and up-
bringing, have an intelligible purpose, and
work together for a practical end?’ And
yet we claim that in the very varieties of
opinions and ideas and methods of work
which exists among us lies our raison d'etre,
the centre and kernel of our being. For

[Column 3]
the unity which it is our aim to seek after
does not lie in identity of organization or
identity of dogma, but in a common conse-
cration to the service of Humanity, in the
spirit of that Love which we hail as the
greatest thing in the world.
	“This may appear to some pure idealism,
and idealism of a nature unlikely to be of
any practical value. This is not, however,
our view or experience. True, it precludes
us from organizing ourselves in favor of
any one propaganda at the cost of another—
the founders of the Council who formulated
our constitution wisely foresaw that if we
identified ourselves with any movement of
a controversial character, we should sacrifice
forthwith the very essence of the council
idea, which is to provide a common centre
for women workers of every race, faith,
class and party, who are associating them-
selves together in the endeavor to leave the
world better and more beautiful than they
have found it.”
		THE WOMAN’S AGE.
	Lady Aberdeen reminded the Congress
that though it was a women’s congress
they had a number of men working with
them. The present age, she said, had been
called the “Woman’s Age:’’ indeed the
past fifty years had produced a revolution
in the position, the responsibilities and op-
portunities of women. This had led to the
formation of associations and unions of
women for mutual help; for when woman
found her life expanding so fast in every
direction she had to endeavor to fit herself
for the new conditions. Younger women
had no idea of the responsibility which had
rested upon those who had gone before.
	“The pioneer women who first broke
down the barriers which had been closed so
firmly against the participation of our
mothers in higher education or in any pub-
lic duties whatsoever, had but barely fin-
ished their task, and the road was as yet
rough and new, but yet the call seemed an
imperative one to go forward and take up
duties which appeared sacred and pressing,
and at the same time to show that this
could be done without sacrifice of our
womanliness.”
	The banding of women together, went
on Lady Aberdeen, should not be allowed
to crystallize into a permanent element in
social life. Man was not meant to live
alone—but still less was woman. It
might be well to have a union of mothers,
but do the fathers count for so little in
the home that their counsel is not needed [-]
	"There are many earnest workers in the
present day who are watching with anx-
iety the effect on the home life of the coun-
try of the numberless societies which have
grown up of late years and which, though ad-
mirable in themselves, create so many mani-
fold interests that they may tend to separate
husbands and wives, parents and children,
brothers and sisters, from the natural in-
fluences which each ought to exercise over
one another, and thus neutralize home life.”
	It was often taken for granted, concluded
Lady Aberdeen, that a congress of women
would occupy itself in devising plans where-


by women might be emancipated from the
cares and duties of home. That was not
the ideal of their progress. They held, she
said, amid loud cheering, that the wom-
an’s first mission must be her home, and
by it she would ever be judged. The
dream of all was a better country, which
meant, in other words, a land of better,
happier, truer and holier homes.

