[Column 1]
the Islands. My highest anticipations were
to set my feet on terra firma once more; to
get fried chickens and fish and fruits of
various kinds—something to satisfy my 
longing appetite, and a soft bed to sleep on.
	In the afternoon of October 21st the pilot
came off to us. I gazed at him from head
to foot as a representative of the people
with whom I must dwell. He was huge
in size, but I thought him good looking.
I told the captain to ask him if “Paraita
was on the Islands?” He replied: “He is
not.” In an instant Ellen’s face was like
marble! She sat down with folded hands
and closed lips. I was prepared for such
tidings; had often thought that such an
event would only be coincident with many
others of a like nature which had fallen to 
my lot. To be thus informed was not the
bitterness of it. He was a prisoner on
Tahiti! The French governor had him in
custody, he was not allowed to leave the
Island. It did not alarm me, so seared
was my heart to hard things. The captain
sent word to Elder Grouard to come on
board. During the interval the children
walked thoughtfully about the deck. At
length Messrs. Grouard and Alexander
came off to the brig. They could scarcely
believe their own eyes! To see so many
American brethren coming to dwell with
them, to relieve them of their solitude,
filled them with joy and surprise! Mr.
Grouard had been for seven years shut out,
as it were, from the world, having been
sent with Mr. Pratt in the year ’43 from
Nauvoo. He has acquired an air of dig-
nity and sobriety, assimilating him with a
Catholic monk. His eyes are sunken, ap-
parently with sorrow, and his whole ap-
pearance at the time was grave and majestic.
I had seen him in the vigor and bloom of
youth, and thought him a gay, lively man.
Now his look was full of wisdom and years.
He very respectfully invited us to go on
shore.
	We were conducted over the coral reefs
with great care. The Island at a distance
presents a picturesque appearance, the
beach being skirted with ito and burau
trees, also with bananas and cocoanuts
and a variety of shrubbery of the most vivid
green. It being the 21st of October, the
season we expect to see the leaves turning
yellow and falling off, not to see the least
sign of decay conveys to the mind a feeling
of admiration.
	The buildings, though far from elegant,
have an appearance of romance. Little
white cottages in the woods,shining through
the green trees, away from the bustle of
the busy world far over the mighty ocean!
To find the remnants of Israel enjoying,
though in a rude state, an incessant spring!
The idea was exalting to one tired of the 
sea as I was. The buildings are low but
very long, plastered inside and out with
lime made from the coral rock; there can-
not be a purer white. I thought of eating
the good fruit, and weak as I was, I walked
with a light step. Multitudes of people
assembled on the beach to welcome us. As
soon as they could reach our hands, they
saluted us in Tahiti: “Ea ora nu ae, te fetii
nu Paraita,” each by our Tahitian names,
as we were introduced by Mr. Grouard.
	A native man who held the office of
“alcalda,” according to French jurispru-
dence, came and took me by the hand, say-
ing, “vau araitai oe” (I will lead you.)
He had a piece of blue drilling bound
about his loins, a sailor jacket, which he
wore without a shirt: that was his com-

[Column 2]
mon suit. On Sabbath days he dressed
like a white man. We took the lead; the
remainder of the company followed at a re-
spectful distance. I could hear them
laughing behind us, but I did not look
back, so intent was I in talking to my
guide. We soon reached the place where
the former friends of “Paraita” resided: I
mean those with whom he had his home,
they were all his friends. Nabotu and
Terii were their names. The latter was
sick with the measles. As soon as she
heard “Paraita’s” family had come, she
rose by faith above the disease and com-
menced arranging supper for us. In the
same house we found Mr. Grouard’s
native wife with a young babe. She ap-
peared exceedingly timid, would not stay
