[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
MARTHA V. STEINER.
	Died, June 6, 1899, at her residence in San
Diego, Califo[-]nia, of typhoid fever, Martha V.
Steiner, aged forty-one years.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, an Alwise and Overruling Providence
has seen fit to call from this sphere of action, our
respected sister and friend, Martha V. Steiner;
and
	Whereas, she having proven herself an ener-
getic and faithful member of the M. I. A., and
a capable and efficient officer, having served as
secretary of said association, be it
	RESOLVED, That we truly appreciate her efforts
in the past, and the noble generosity of her nature,
which has often ministered to those in need; and,
be it further
	RESOLVED, That we truly mourn her loss and re-
gret her absence, and that we extend the hand of
sympathy to those whom her death has bereaved;
and, be it further
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
added to the M. I. A. record, a copy be furnished
the bereaved family, and one sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
						RHODA C. NASH.
	In behalf of the M. I. A. of San Diego, Califor-
nia.
IN THE MEMORY OF THE LATE SUSAN MAUDE VELLE
FAIRBANKS.
	Sister Fairbanks was born September 23, 1819,
in Bergen county, New Jersey, and died March 2,
1899. She became a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, February 2, 
1843 at Bergen, New Jersey, arrived in Salt

[Column 2]
Lake valley August 28, 1848, and moved to Pay-
son in the year 1851. She was the mother of thir-
teen children, ten of whom are how living,
seven sons and three daughters and a number of
grandchildren. Her husband died in 1895. She
was a faithful and energetic worker in the Relief
Society, being one of the early pioneers, having
passed through those trying scenes in the early
history of the Church, and also the hardships of
the settlement in this country. She bore her trials
with patience and fortitude and was always cheer-
ful. Her mind was bright and intelligent, she
was well informed on all leading topics, and she
was pleasant in conversation.
	Sister Fairbanks was a faithful Latter-day
Saint and has made a good record. She has gone
to her rest as a veteran in the church of God, and
as such will receive the reward of the faithful.
The funeral services were held in the Payson
tabernacle, Sunday, March 5, 1899. A large cor-
tege followed the remains to the cemetery.
			ANN PICKERING, Pres.
			JANE WORSENCROFT, Asst. Sec.
	First Ward Relief Society, Payson.
LAURA ALATHEA GARDNER.
	It becomes our painful duty to again record the
death of one of our faithful sisters, Sister Laura
Alathea Gardner, who died at Afton, Uintah
Co., Wyoming, (where she had gone for her health)
July 10, 1899. She was attended during her last
illness by her husband, one son, one daughter and
numerous relatives and friends.
	Her remains were brought to West Jordan, Salt
Lake Co., Utah, where the funeral was held July
14th. The body was taken to the Salt Lake City
cemetery for interment.
	The funeral was largely attended, and the
principal speakers were Presidents Angus M. Can-
non and Joseph E. Taylor, who dwelt upon the
many virtues and faithfulness of the deceased.
	Sister Laura Alathea Gardner was born August
3, 1834, at Alexandria, N. Y., and crossed the
plains to Utah in 1850. Married Archibald Gard-
ner March 3, 1852. She was the mother of eleven
children, eight sons and three daughters. Her
husband, four sons, two daughters and numerous
grandchildren survive her.
	She has always been a faithful member of the
Relief Society. When the branch in West Jordan
was organized in 1868, she was one of the first en-
rolled. In February, 1869, she was chosen presi-
dent, which office she held until the 12th of Decem-
ber, 1880, when she moved to Taylorsville.
	On July 6, 1891, Sister Gardner having moved
back to West Jordan, was chosen second counselor
to Sister Agnes Cutler, and subsequently the ward
was divided and Sister Agnes was in East Jordan.
The West Jordan Relief Society was reorganized
on January 13, 1896, and she was chosen first
counselor to President Marinda Bateman, which
office she held at the time of her death.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to call from our midst, on the 10th of 
July, A. D. 1899,  our beloved counselor, Laura
Alathea Gardner, we, the members of the West
Jordan Relief Society, do feel to mourn her loss;
and we know that we have lost a counselor and
kind friend.
	RESOLVED, That we do cherish her memory and
put into practice her wise teachings, and strive to
be kind, patient and charitable as she always was,
and try, as she did, to comfort the distressed and 
encourage the erring to lead a better life.
	RESOLVED, That we sympathize with her aged
husband and sorrowing family; and we pray that
our Heavenly Father, with His holy spirit, will
heal the wound thus caused by the loss of a loving
wife and mother.
	RESOLVED, That we send a copy of these resolu-
tions to the bereaved family, one to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT, and that one be kept and inserted in
our minutes, as a record of our beloved counselor
and kind friend.
				MARINDA BATEMAN, Pres.
				DELILA GARDNER, Sec.
MARY CAROLINE HART.
	Sister Mary Caroline Hart, daughter of Brother
Levi R. and Sister Harriet M. Hart was born Oct.
17, 1884, at Salt Lake City, Utah, and lived at
Thomas Fork, Bear Lake Co., Idaho, where she
resided at the time of her death, July 22, 1899.
	She has always been a very tender and loving
child, and most exemplary young lady, and was
dearly loved by all who knew her. She was a
faithful member of the Sunday School, and for
the last three years has taken an active part in the 
Relief Society. She leaves a father, mother and

[Column 3]
five brothers to mourn her loss, her brother James
being in Germany filling a mission at the time of
her death.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, our Father in Heaven, in His infinite
wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst one of
our esteemed sisters, Mary Caroline Hart, and 
	Whereas, in her demise we have lost a dear
friend and Latter-day Saint, therefore
	Resolved, That we, the officers and members of
the Thomas Fork Sunday School, do extend our
heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family in this
their hour of sorrow.
	Resolved, That we ever cherish her memory
and regard her virtues as worthy of emulation.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the bereaved family, one placed on
the records of the Sunday School and one sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
