[Column 1]	
	EDITORIAL NOTES
	THE regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, on Monday, October 2, 1899, at 2
o'clock p.m. 	All officers and members of
the society are cordially invited to be pres-
ent.
	E. B. WELLS, Gen. Sec.
	
	A SUGGESTION has been made that
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Box Elder, Morgan,

[Column 2]
Cache, Summit and Wasatch Counties
be solicited to furnish students for Dr.
Roberts’ training class. She would like to
have one hundred or more.

	THE City of Rome, which sailed from
Glasgow on the 26th of August, ult., had
on board, returning home, some of the
ladies who went to London to attend the
International Council, and others who had
been over visiting in England, France and
Scotland, others collecting genealogy, and
also missionaries, one lady, at least, and
several brethren. Among the lady passen-
gers were Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune,
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings and Miss Lucile
Jennings, of this city; Mrs. Jesse Knight,
of Provo, and Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell,
of Deweyville. All these sisters return in
good health and spirits, notwithstanding
the thrilling incident of an iceberg striking
the steamer and creating much alarm among
the passengers, in fact, giving them all a
good shaking up. One young man from
New York, a clergyman who had been
traveling in England for his health, went
violently insane, the shock being too great
for him in his weak state. This brings
back to Utah all the ladies who attended
the International Council and Congress, ex-
cept those who remain to labor as mission-
aries.
	THE Utah Society of the Daughters of
the Revolution, met as a sort of sociable on
Saturday, September 16, at 3 p. m., at the
residence of Mrs. Isabel M. Sears, East
Waterloo. The house was prettily decor-
ated with flowers in every available place;
late roses, bright, beautiful nasturtiums
and astors. Several letters from head-
quarters were read, the correspondence
which has accumulated during the absence
of the Regent; the remainder of the time was
occupied by the Regent (Mrs. E. B. Wells)
giving an account of her trip to London
and Paris, and the receptions tendered to
the International Council, including the
visit to Windsor Castle and tea in St.
George's Hall. The "five o'clock tea,"
with many delicious delicacies was a pleasant
part of the social affair. The table was
beautiful with floral decorations, and each
guest was given a knot of ribbon the colors
of the society. Regrets were expressed at
the absence of the First Vice-Regent, who
was expected to add something descriptive
of her trip to London; and also the absence
of the Recording Secretary, whose approach-
ing marriage was the apology for her not be-
ing present. The next meeting will be held
in the Templeton, room 208, on Monday,
October 16, at 3 p. m. All members are
urgently requested to attend, that a course
of study may be begun for the winter.

	DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS expects to
open another class for a Corps of Nurses in
November of this year. It is ardently
hoped that under the auspices of the Relief
Society in the several Stakes of Zion near
Salt Lake County, suitable young and mid-
dle aged women may be selected who have
the ability and aptitude for this employ-
ment, after taking a course of physiology
and general nursing. The term will con-
tinue for seven months with three lessons a
week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not
exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have
some of the best surgeons and physicians of
Salt Lake City to give lessons during the
course. As the course of instruction will

[Column 3]
be given free of charge, in consideration
of this free course of study. each sister
taking it will agree for a certain length of
time to nurse under the direction of the
president of the Relief Society in the re-
spective locality where she resides free of
charge, unless permitted to do otherwise be-
cause of circumstances. A suitable room
will be furnished for the lectures and in-
struction. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts tenders
her services free to the Relief Society, for
the benefit of that organization, and that
the sick, who have not faith to be healed,
may be nourished with care and skill, and
that not by the hand of an enemy, "accord-
ing to the word of the Lord to the Latter-
day Saints. For further particulars apply
to Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, 75 North State
Street, Salt Lake City.


