[Column 1]
moments fully clothed as a man. Her fig-
ure lent a new grace to the garb, and she
seemed a comely youth. She clipped her
thick black curls closely to her head,
and placed on it a soft hat, which she had
bought the day before, and thus equipped
she breathed freer. Her way seemed
mapped out for her, straight to the Ameri-
can camp, some miles distant. Before pro-
ceeding, she gathered some dry branches
and made a fire, heaping her clothes upon
it, and, setting a light to it, waited until
they were reduced to ashes. These she
covered with earth, and once more set off.
	The day was well on when she paused at
the outposts. The sentinel eyed her curi-
ously, but the fire in her brown eyes shot
straight into his own and awakened a re-
sponsive chord in this weather-beaten soul.
	“I’ve come to enlist,” Deborah an-
nounced; her deep voice filled the place for
a boy’s readily.
	“Well, an’ yer have. I’m glad on it,
young man. Come this way!” He led
her through the ranks straight to Colonel
Patterson.
	He looked pleased when he saw Deborah.
There was a curious intenseness and vigor
about her, which people felt, and she gener-
ally won her point. Her smile was the sun-
niest the Colonel had ever seen, as she
doffed her hat and made known her errand.
He studied her attentively.
	“Yes, you’re just the boy I need,” he
said, laying his hand on her shoulder. She
shrank away, but overcame her embarrass-
ment instantly. “You shall be with me
for a while. I want a young fellow to run
errands to different places along the lines.
You shall fill that position, and be mustered
in at the same time. We shall have leave
of absence soon, and I shall take you home
with me, for you’ll be useful there.”
	Deborah consented readily, though she
had wished for immediate action. She was
mustered into service in May, 1781, under
the name of Robert Shirtliffe.
	The men called her “The Blooming Boy,”
because of her fair skin, and often Bobbie,
to all of which she made no remonstrance.
She became indispensable to the Colonel,
and when his leave of absence came he
took her home with him.
	She found herself in a comfortable home,
with little to do except a few letters to copy
for the Colonel. She busied herself about
the place, working in the garden, and doing
whatever came to hand. The household
grew to love the young man, and she was
careful to evade discovery. She had begged
a room to herself, and the Colonel gave it
to her. About this time a niece came to
stay at the house, and as ill luck would
have it, she became enamored of the youth-
ful soldier. Deborah tried every means to
avert this disaster, but the girl’s earnest-
ness was not to be quelled so easily, and
Deborah went to the Colonel with the story.
After she told him the facts of the case, he
said, “My dear boy, you are needlessly
alarmed, for nothing would please me more
than to have you marry my niece; and
what reason prevents your doing so? Try,
my dear fellow, to love her.”
	Deborah grew white to the lips with fear
and dismay.
	“Colonel Patterson, you don’t know
what you ask,” she said hastily.” “Think
of me, sir, I am only a common soldier. I
haven’t a cent in the world.”
	“Don’t look so frightened, Rob,” the 
Colonel said, laughing. “I’m not going to
force you to marry her, though I’d like

[Column 2]
nothing better. I’d willingly supply the
money to start you comfortably in some
business.”
	“You are too generous, sir, but believe
me, I cannot. It is better that I leave here
at once, if, sir, your niece loves me, as she
has almost told me.” A hot flush mounted
Deborah’s cheeks.
	The Colonel laughed still heartier.
	“My dear Rob, you’re blushing like a
girl.”
	“I believe I am, sir, and I’m ashamed of
it.”
	“You need’nt be. I’d have done the
same if a girl had proposed to me. But
you musn’t think of leaving me. The
young woman shall go first.”
	“This is scarcely fair, sir. No, I shall
go.” The slight figure stood erect, the
voice rang out decidedly, and the Colonel
met only defiance in the handsome brown
eyes.
	“And I say you shall not go,” he said.
“You are dismissed for the present.”
	Deborah saluted her superior officer and
withdrew. She hurriedly put a few arti-
cles together, and when the next morning
came, Colonel Patterson’s household was
astonished to find the young soldier miss-
ing.
	Deborah proceeded back to the American
camp, where she once more got in the ranks
as a private. She carried a bayonet, car-
tridge box, etc. She enlisted for the whole
term of the war, a position never before or
after held by a woman. She filled the full
complement of a soldier’s life, slept in tents
and went through the usual routine of the
men. Her mother in the meantime and
her lover, David Brenton, received rumors
of her death, or of an elopement. They de-
cided to make a search for her, and ended
their pilgrimage by going through the
American camp, fearing she might have
gone there to nurse the soldiers. It hap-
pened that Deborah was putting on her
coat as she caught sight of her mother and
David Brenton being shown through the
camps by two officers. She went inside the
tent immediately, greatly excited. Would
they know her? She snatched up a book
and pretended to read.
	Presently the party passed by her tent,
and David looked in curiously. Deborah
sprang to her feet instantly, pulled her
hat well over her eyes, and saluted her
superior officer. David did not know her,
but saw only a slender youth giving the
army courtesies to his officer.
	How’s everything going with you,
Bobbie?” the Captain inquired.
	“Very well, sir,” Deborah answered in a
scarcely audible voice. Her mother started
slightly as she spoke, and looked intently
at the slim figure in blue, but there was a
short distance between them.
	“It seemed,” she said, in the tender
mother-voice, which went straight to the
girl’s heart; “it seemed as if I had heard
that voice somewhere, sometime. Who is
the young soldier, sir?”
	“Robert Shirtliffe, and a fine young fel-
low.”
	The young fellow turned away and bent
over some writing and the Captain, know-
ing the reticent nature of the youth, moved
away with the other two.
	Deborah’s eyes filled with tears. She
rushed to the opening and unperceived by
them, she watched them for a long way.
Her beloved mother, gentle, sweet as ever,
and she had let her go!
	A roll of drums, a sound of fife, and

[Column 3]
Deborah’s tears ceased to flow—a blazing
fire quenched them as it burned in her
eyes.
“No! no! My country, for thee! I am
here, and it is well. God will guide me. 
		[To be continued.]


