NOTES.
	LADY SOMERSET is laboring to induce
London and other English cities to employ
matrons in police stations, after the fashion
of the United States.—Ex.
	No change of condition, be it ever so de-
sirable, can of itself change character, or
build up principle, or create virtue. And it
is upon these, after all, that we must de-
pend for real progress as well as for per-
manent happiness.
	ESTELLE REEL, U. S. Superintendent of
Indian Schools, in her annual report, says
that all the teachers among the Indians
agree that the solution of the problem of
Indian education lies in industrial training.
The studies that will enable the Indian lad
to earn an honest dollar by manual labor
are what he needs.—Ex.
	LADY GEORGINA VERNON, daughter of
the tenth Earl of Haddington, is well
known as an authority on dairying as an
occupation for women. She spent some
time in Normandy studying into French
methods of cheesemaking. She strongly
urges the practicability of dairying for
women as a self-supporting industry, but
says that cheese would be the most profit-
able branch of the work.—Ex.
	CLARA BARTON, president of the Red
Cross, has been visiting at the home of
Judge Joseph Sheldon in New Haven, Conn.
Miss Barton returned from Cuba about two
weeks ago. She was accompanied by her
general field-agent, Dr. Hubbell. The
rumors that have been in circulation for
weeks that Miss Barton would soon relin-
quish the management of the Red Cross
was denied by her friends. “She is in good
health notwithstanding her age,” said one
who has talked with her since her arrival
in this city. “Of course she is tired after
undergoing such hard work.”—Ex.
	THE House of Lords has done good work
in passing the second reading of the Shop
Assistants’ Bill, which provides for the
seating of women in shops. It has been
shown that appeals to humanity have failed
with the employers, and compulsory legis-
lation is therefore absolutely necessary to
stamp out this evil. Many young women
have been ruined for life by being compelled
to stand behind a counter for hours and
hours. Compulsory legislation has been
passed on the subject in some of the colonies
and several of the States of the American
Union; It is not reasonable that England
should lag behind. Where the health of
the people is concerned, all other consider-
ations must give way.—Ex.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank 
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired. 
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest. 
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next CLASS IN
OBSTETRICS AND NURSING on 
Monday, Oct. 16th, 1899.
	Address 75 North, State St., Salt
Lake City.

