MARRIAGE OF MISS E. W. SEARS. 
	At the residence of the bride’s parents,
Hon. and Mrs. S. W. Sears, Thorndike, 
East Waterloo, on Friday at high noon, (12
M.) Miss Emilie W. Sears was mar-
ried to Mr. John Gillette Roberts, of In-
dianapolis, Indiana. The ceremony was 
performed by the Rev. I. Elmer Goshen. The 
wedding was a very quiet one, only mem-
bers of the family being present and one or 
two friends, visitors from Janesville, Wis-
consin.
	The house was beautifully decorated,
the windows and mantlepiece of the parlor, 
where the ceremony took place, were banked
with ferns and palms, brightened with nas-
turtiums of the most charming varieties;
the library was fragrant with lovely roses 
of all shades of color; the hall was deco-
rated with long-stemmed, old-fashioned
hollyhocks, and the dining room, where 
the wedding breakfast was served immedi-
ately after the marriage, was filled in 
every available place with the daintiest-
colored and sweetest of sweet peas. The 
bride wore a gray “going away gown,” with 
white silk waist, and carried a large bouquet 
of exquisite delicate roses, and a dainty 
ivory fan. 
	The newly wedded pair left Salt Lake 
City early the following morning on a wed-
ding tour to New York, Chicago and a 
number of large cities in the East, and 
were given a brilliant reception at the 
residence of the bridegroom’s parents, in 
Indianapolis, while enroute.
	The bride is well known in Salt Lake 
City, and familiarly to those who visit this 
office, as she has assisted here occasionally 
during the last few years and at times con-
tinuously, in the absence of the editor. 
	Mr. Roberts, the bridegroom, taught 
Mathematics in the High school in this city, 
but left here two years ago to accept a more 
remunerative position in Detroit, Michigan, 
where the young people expect to reside, for 
the present, at least. 
	Mr. Roberts is an electrical engineer, and 
is superintendent of the chemical department 
of the Detroit Switchboard Telephone and
Constructing Company, and is reputed to 
be one of the most expert men in his line of 
business in the country. 
	May every blessing desirable for the at-
tainment of complete happiness be showered 
upon these young people just entering, as 
it were, the portals of a new life; and may 
their union prove a happy and prosperous 
one in all that will bring true success in 
the future, both in this life and that which 
is to come. 
	The EXPONENT extends most sincere 
and heartfelt congratulations to Mr. and 
Mrs. Roberts, and trusts the future may 
be fraught with such rich and happy influ-
ences, that their days may flow on smoothly 
and scarce a pebble disturb the waves of 
the ocean of life, over which they glide 
ever onward.

And love is best, pure love without alloy, 
	Of all the blessings and the mercies given;
It brings the sweetest bliss, the highest joy 
	And gives us faith and hope that lights to 
		Heaven.
Dear “Emmie” may your star of love be bright 
	To guide through every mist and every storm;
May showers to prove thy faith be only light 
	And blessed sunshine after cheer and warm. 
									E. B. W.


JEALOUSY is the greatest enemy to
[-]rotherhood.


