[Column 1]
A VISIT THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.
Franklin, Idaho, July 12, 1899.
Dear Editor Exponent:
	President Elizabeth Fox and Counselors
Mary Hawkes and D. E. Dudley started
on their annual trip around the Oneida
Stake, Monday, June 12, 1899.
	They held their first meeting at Fair-
view, President Phebe McNeal presiding.
The meeting opened with the usual exer-
cises of singing and prayer. The subjects
spoken upon were storing grain, building
granaries, paying tithing, education of our
children and preserving the virtue and
health of the daughters of Zion. A good
spirit prevailed. Several of the local sis-
ters bore faithful testimonies.
	After enjoying dinner and sociability
with President Phebe McNeal, we pro-
ceeded on our way rejoicing to Weston,
where at 2 p. m. we found the sisters all
assembled awaiting us. Bishop Clark and
Counselor Michaelson met with us, which
was much appreciated, for it seemed to give
strength and confidence to have our
brethren meet with us. President Clark
not being able to be present, the meeting
was presided over by her first counselor,
Andrea Larsen. A good spirit prevailed.
	President Fox was the first speaker. She
was sorry Sister Clark could not be present.
Was glad the brethren were here so they
could hear what was taught to the sisters
in their ward; gave much timely in-
struction; also read the instructions to the
Relief Society which were published in the
EXPONENT of May 1, 1899, and advised
them to be kept in their record for future
reference in their society.
	Counselor Mary Hawkes was pleased to
see so many present. She could heartily
endorse the remarks of President Fox.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley, followed. Ad-
vised the sisters to take care of their health
and to teach their children to be self sup-
porting and assist them to acquire a useful
education.
	President McNeal, of Fairview, advised
the mothers not to work so hard; said many
things could be neglected. Give a mother
time to care for her little ones.
	Bishop Clark wished to encourage the sis-
ters. Said the sisters were good to the
sick and poor under all circumstances.
	Counselor Peter Michaelson appreciated
the Primary workers and all who were en-
gaged in instructing the young.
	We were kindly entertained by Sisters
Preston and Larson for the night.
	Tuesday morning early we continued
our journey to Dayton. The air was very
cool and bracing, considering it was the 13th
of June. At 10 o’clock we met with the
Relief Society of Dayton, President Sarah
Callen and counselors, and Elder Stephen
Callen being present on the stand. We
were cheered by the warmth of a coal fire,

[Column 2]
which we were much in need of, as the
morning was cold.
	President Fox was pleased to meet with
the sisters, and hoped all were active
workers. Read the printed instructions of
Eliza R. Snow Smith from the EXPONENT,
and advised the sisters to take the EXPO-
NENT and read it, etc.
	D. E. Dudley spoke of the beauty of the
fields of flowers and the grandeur of the
mountains and streams and the magnitude
of the divine work we are engaged in; said
our Father was at the helm. Spoke of the
blessings we enjoy, and of the abundance of
the crops on the dry farms of last season.
Said the Lord had opened the windows of
heaven and poured out such blessings that
we could hardly contain them all, as many
had to move out into tents and put the
grain in their dwelling houses. In one in-
stance their building burst, and the grain
ran down hill and filled a ravine. Predic-
tions of the Saints of God were being liter-
ally fulfilled every day.
	Elder Callen bore testimony to the truth
of the remarks of all who had spoken, and
pronounced the benediction.
	At 2 p. m. we met with the Relief Soci-
ety of Clifton ward. President Elizabeth
Henderson and counselors and Elder Wil-
liam Garner were present and a goodly
number of sisters. The instructions were
on the same subjects and quite lengthy,
which occupied the time from 2 until 4
o’clock, after which we partook of the sup-
per the sisters had prepared beforehand, in
company with quite a number of sisters,
and separated for the night to meet again in
Oxford at 10 o’clock.
	Promptly on time we met at the Ox-
ford meeting house with a goodly number
of sisters; and one unusual feature of the
meeting was a band of young ladies who
came and sang in the choir for the meeting.
President Lewis and her counselors were
present, and she presided over the meeting.
	None of the priesthood being present,
meeting was opened by Sister D. E. Dud-
ley, and Sister Haws was remembered in
the prayer by her request, as she was very
sick.
	President Lewis reported her branch as
in good condition but less in number, as
they had organized a branch at Swan Lake
on the 23rd of April, 1899, which had taken
the larger portion of her flock.
	After a lengthy meeting we took dinner
with President Lewis, and proceeded on to
Treasureton to fill our next appointment at
3 o’clock. We found many of the sisters
present. The people are scattered over a
district of seven or eight miles, which is a
great disadvantage to the sisters in attend-
ing meetings and acting as teachers. They
have lately completed a Relief Society
building in which they intend to hold meet-
ings and store grain. All are united in the
good work.
	We spent an enjoyable evening with
Brother and Sister Williams and proceeded
on to our District conference.
	Tuesday morning was balmy and cool,
all nature smiling. The grass was green
and the trees in blossom and clear streams
were rippling down the hillsides under-
neath the cool shade, wending their way to
field and garden, not the river. The re-
mark was made that some wise man had
said: “He who makes two blades of grass
grow where only one grew before, is a
benefactor.” Then surely the inhabitants
of these grand old hills and valleys are
benefactors to a great extent, for thousand


of blades grow where sagebrush grew be-
fore.
	We arrived at Mink Creek at 10:30 and
rested and dined with Brother and Sister
Graham. Met in conference at 2 p. m.
Present on the stand were President Eliza-
beth Fox and Counselors Mary Hawkes
and D. E. Dudley, President Graham,
Phebe McNeal and Bishop Rasmuson, of
Fairview, all of whom spoke, and the spirit
of God was abundantly enjoyed and much
good counsel was given: instructions about
building granaries, storing grain, taking
and reading the EXPONENT and paying
tithing. President Graham reported the
society in good working order. Said the
Relief Society had donated twenty dollars
to help the missionaries in the last two
years, and had looked after the poor and
done much good in general.
	Our next meeting was held at Glen Dale
at 10 o’clock Friday morning, President
Mary Ann Nelson presiding, President
Fox and Counselor D. E. Dudley, of the Stake
presidency, being present on the stand.
Meeting opened with the usual exercises;
members enrolled, 26; members present,
16. The organization is complete. The
sisters are young; they had not subscribed
for the EXPONENT as yet, but would do so.
	Proceeded on to Preston to fill our last
appointment at 2 o’clock p. m. We met
with the usual kind reception of the sisters,
who were glad to see us although we were
dusty and traveled-stained. President
Julia Roper presided. After the opening
exercises much good instruction was given,
but as it was practically the same as has
been mentioned before, it is not necessary
to repeat it here. The subject of purity
was continued, for the Gospel was never to
be taken from the earth, and God in His
wisdom had reserved noble spirits to come
forth in this day for this special work, and
He desired them to have pure and noble
bodies to live in.
	After benediction we separated to go to
our homes, feeling that we had been great-
ly blessed in our labors.
E. FOX, Pres.,
D. E. DUDLEY, Sec. pro tem.


