[Column 1]
his mind. I could not help admiring his
devotion. I knew his faith was strong in
the Gospel, and he felt a solemn pleasure in
surveying the features of the murdered
Prophet and Patriarch.
	The Island sisters have great faith in the
consecrated oil, which was blessed by Presi-
dent Brigham Young previous to our leav-
ing Salt Lake City. When I told them
from whence it came and the designs of it,
they would invariably bring their sick chil-
dren to me and request me to anoint them
with the holy oil, nothing doubting but
a cure would be effected; and, according to
their faith, often was it done unto them.
	Their habits of devotion are really com-
mendable. At all seasons of the year they
rise at early dawn. The first exercise is to
call the family and fall upon their knees in
prayer. Often before their first meal,
they ring the bell and go to the house of
worship, read a chapter in the Bible, sing a
hymn, and, if their teacher is present, they
ask questions upon portions they do not fully
understand, seldom continuing their ex-
ercises more than a half hour. They make
many feasts, sometimes calling all within
hailing distance to come and partake. At
other times they send the food to their
kindred and neighbors, and a generous,
share to their teachers.
	On January 4th, 1851, Elder Grouard
made a great feast to celebrate his 33rd
birthday. It was held at his own dwelling
house, a very long building. About one
hundred people were invited. The food
was purely native, with the exception of
fifty mince pies, which the missionaries’
wives contributed. The guests were not
assembled until the food was all arranged
in order. Mats were laid the whole length
of the building, large leaves laid for plates,
likewise plaited for tablecloths. Through
the centre was laid the food, a cocoanut at
each plate; the shells being a bright orange
contrasted beautifully with the green leaves.
	I shall never forget the admiration I felt as
I gazed upon that table spread upon the
ground! Never in my life had I seen any-
thing to exceed it! Mats were laid for the
guests to be seated. A few there were who
had knives and forks. All present seemed
to have merry hearts. Mr. Grouard rend-
ered thanks to the Great Disposer of events,
that he had lived to see that joyful day,
even to greet so many of his friends from
America and have them present on that
grand occasion! When all had feasted to a
fullness, and while remaining seated, Mr.
Grouard arose and addressed the assembly
in a most appropriate manner. He referred
to his long confinement on the Islands, be-
lieving it to be his duty to remain there till
the Elders were sent to relieve him. Thirty-
three years of his life had passed away;
truly his life had been an eventful one.
He felt that the Lord had heard his pray-
ers, in that he had lived to see the faces of
so many of his former friends, and to re-
joice with them in the midst of a humble
and loving people, whose hearts were
warm towards us and were ready to re-
ceive the truth. Thirty-three years from
that day, when he should have attained his
sixty-sixth year, he said, "I will make
another feast." All present, if living,
should be invited. We all responded a
hearty amen!
	Mr. Grouard is a gentleman distinguished
for beauty and graceful appearance; though
by being excluded too much from society,
he has acquired too large a share of gravity
and sedateness. He combines the orator, phil-

[Column 2]
osopher and preacher of righteousness, with
the sailor and native man of the Island. He
has married two Island women. The first
died, leaving him a little daughter one
month old. The second has borne him three
sons. The girl, now four years of age, was
placed in our eldest daughter’s charge, a very
sprightly child. She had never learned
one word of English from her father, which
to us seemed very surprising. With her
new teacher she made rapid improvement.
[To be continued.]


