[Column 1]
MRS. BEDFORD FENWICK.
	Discussion: “The effect upon Domestic
Life of the Entry of Women to the Profes-
sions.” Mrs. Bedford Fenwick:
	“The first question which it appears to me
is raised by Mrs. Fenwick Miller’s admir-
able paper is: ‘Does the wife who is en-
gaged in professional work make for the
good of the home? And, in consequence,
is she, or is she not, of benefit to the
nation?’ Mrs. Miller seems inclined to
answer the question in the affirmative, and
in this view I would cordially agree, al-
though; at the same time, it must be gener-
ally realized that outside professional work
is somewhat inconsistent with the old-
fashioned idea of the domestic life of the
housewife. It must be regarded as un-
questionable that the professional wife can-
not serve two masters. If she attempts to
perform so impossible a task she will fail in
her duty to both. However well cultured
her brain, however well trained her facul-
ities may be, the average woman cannot be
at once the successful professional worker,
and the mother and home-maker. No
one should attempt to combine such di-
verse functions. To succeed in any pro-
fession in these days of keen competition
means unremitting toil, early and late, and
the employment of every power of brain
and body which one may possess. Under

[Column 2]
these circumstances, the professional wife
must depute the majority of her domestic
duties to others, and as a matter of justice
to her husband, this fact should be clearly
understood before marriage, so that the com-
pact should be a fair one. Marriage is a
contract, and should carry with it a sense
of mutual obligation; but too often the ‘re-
ciprocity has been all on one side.’ The
man has governed, the woman served, and,
in the large majority of marriages, both
parties have enjoyed this well defined posi-
tion. But it is the fact that women enjoy
their servitude that is the chief difficulty in
raising the ideal of marriage in the public
mind.
	“But we are forced to realize that the
woman, however highly cultivated and
trained, is constituted by nature a creature
of infinitely more delicate nervous organi-
zation than a man, and that it is impossible
for her to bear the nerve-strain of house-
wife and breadwinner. Such a strain
would speedily spell nervous exhaustion,
and inevitable misery in domestic life. As
have said, no man would attempt to do
so much, and it must not be expected from
any woman. Let us own at once that wife-
hood and motherhood are recognized as
privileges, duties and joys by the average
woman. To be just to our daughters, let
them be taught from their youth up all the
dainty arts, and some of the crafts, which
go to make good mothers and worthy
wives.
	“Each girl should be afforded opportun-
ities equal to those given to her brothers,
and by skilled teaching, be enabled to earn
her bread in that branch of labor for which
she shows inclination. Should she ever be
thrown upon her own resources, she will
then be safe and independent. Such a
trained and skilled worker may, or may
not, elect to marry, but should it seem
good to her so to do, she will, at least, be
well equipped to aid her husband by her
earnings, or not, as circumstances may re-
quire. It is by the realization that Duty is
the great law of life, that humanity will pass
through the stages of evolution and attain
the highest sphere of being.
	“The effect upon the home life of indi-
viduals, and, in consequence, upon the
national life, of whether a woman is em-
ployed after marriage in domestic arts, in
professional duties or in public work, will
depend largely upon the circumstances of
her environment, upon the spirit in which
she performs her duty. It may be her
duty to give up, after marriage, the special
work by which she has earned an honorable
livelihood, or it may be her duty to con-
tinue it. Duty must determine the result
in every case. The ultimate effect upon
domestic life will be the result of the man-
ner in which each woman faces and per-
forms her individual duty in the body
politic. On any other basis, domestic life
has always been, and always will be, a
failure. Every day we see the increase of
toleration in the public mind, on what is
known as the ‘woman question,’ and the
domestic relations of the sexes are only one
phase of the development of this question.
	“How far the marriage relations can stand
the strain of economic equality—no other
equality is of any value—remains to be
seen; and whether the average woman will
shoulder the responsibility, which the
claim for equality will necessitate, remains
also to be seen. I am inclined to think the
average woman will not do so. The bril-
liant exception we can safely leave to her

[Column 3]
own devices—only I would say to mere
man, ‘Don’t marry her.’ Too many
martyrs have already been sacrificed on the
altar of Genius, and the average women
have need of her. The exceptional woman
is instinct with irrepressible devotion to
some Cause, with a big C, which it is her
duty to further, irrespective of every indi-
vidual consideration. With Mrs. Fenwick
Miller I am loath to deprive the nation of
the motherhood of the intellectual woman.
The selection of the fittest as propagator of
the species in the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, is the aim of the agricultural
and horticultural breeder. Why not also of
the humanitarian? But it is the physical,
the pure blood strain, the perfection of
form and coloring, which is considered in
the development towards perfection in those
kingdoms. And intellectual force is a
strangely elusive quality: science has not
yet demonstrated that it is possible to propa-
gate it through prearranged physical unions
—rather we have come to speak of indi-
vidual talents as ‘gifts,’ and we have not
yet attained to the scientific knowledge by
which we may ‘breed’ the great artist or
law-giver. In conserving the purity of the
human physical forces we may add one
quota to the higher development of the
human race—beyond, we must be grateful
for the ‘gifts’ the gods give us. They
have given the average woman a keen
sense of duty and love of home. I think
we may trust her not to sacrifice the sub-
stance for the shadow.”


