A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.]
			[Continued.]
	For the first time in my life I took food
as a medicine, forcing it down as I would a
nauseous draught given to save my life.
Two or three times a flying fish found on
deck was dressed and cooked for me: the
sweetest morsel I tasted on the voyage.
The weather was fine, a few days’ head
wind was all the difficulty we had to en-
counter; and had it been possible for me
to have shaken off my seasickness, I should
have passed the time pleasantly. We
spoke an American whale-ship on the pas-
sage. The captain came on board with his
little daughter, six years of age, a very
pretty child. His wife, who was sailing
with him, had given birth on board ship to
twin boys, then six months old. The
captain from his vessel held them up to our
view. We praised the beauty of the ocean-
children, and hoped he might carry them
safely to the end of the voyage. Five days
before we reached Tubaui we saw the
Pamutus at a distance.
	We looked through a spy-glass and saw
cocoanut trees. Hope began to spring up
in my heart that the voyage would soon be
over. Two days before we landed I had a
fainting spell, the most severe I ever had in
my life. I called on the Elders to adminis-
ter to me, which they did, and from that
hour my darkness fled; I was relieved in
body and mind!
	As we drew near the island where we
expected to land, the children began to
talk of meeting their father. It never
once occurred to them there could be a dis-
appointment at hand. Frances, our second
daughter, had often been sad on the way.
She would frequently retire to some seclud-
ed corner to indulge in silent reveries.
When the ship hove in sight of Tubaui,
her countenance changed. On the 19th of
October she was constantly on deck look-
ing toward the desired harbor, her coun-
tenance brightening every moment. The
wind was contrary for a whole day. We
looked through a spy-glass and saw cocoa-
nut trees. We strained our eyes to catch a
glimpse of something to confirm our hopes
that all would be well with us when we
landed. Nothing could we see resembling
human life. The great cocoanut trees
towered their majestic heads far above the
horizon, and their long branches, waved in
the breeze! But the living beings were
enshrouded in the thick foliage of the
shrubbery which grows so luxuriantly ove


