[Column 1]
A SPIRITUAL AWAKENING.
	During the summer the visits made in
the several Stakes of Zion by the First
Presidency and Apostles of the Church
and the sisters who have traveled with
them, must have caused quite a spiritual
awakening among the people. Meetings
where the spirit of the Lord has been
poured out in rich abundance, have been
reported from time to time in the daily
papers; and those abroad in other lands, as
well as those at home in Zion, have taken
note of these proceedings and are not un-
mindful of the results which must necessa-
rily follow such special teaching and preach-
ing of the commandments of the Lord.
Naturally a more strict observance of the
law of tithing, of keeping the Sabbath day
holy, the Word of Wisdom and training of
the youth of Zion in paths of virtue and
holiness will follow, and thereby will
come a blessing upon all the interests of
the Saints upon the earth.
	The work is hastening on; the mission-
aries abroad in the world are busy sowing
good seed wherever opportunities can be
made. Distributing tracts from house to
house is done by both men and women
missionaries; also preaching in the public
parks and elsewhere in the open air.
Young women have left good homes, and
some of them who were receiving liberal
salaries for teaching in schools and academ-
ies, to labor in spreading the Gospel in
foreign lands, not for honor, nor the sake
of any remuneration in this world, but that
they might be instrumental in helping on
the cause of truth, which will eventually
redeem mankind from sin.
	The writer rejoiced while in England in
hearing these true and earnest young wom-
en bearing testimony to the knowledge ob-
tained through the Holy Spirit, which
leads into all truth. Such testimony only
comes through humility, prayer and faith-
fulness, and it brings a peace that passeth
understanding.
	Mrs. Lettie Dewey Campbell, Miss Inez
Knight, Miss Zina Chipman, Miss Joseph-
ine Booth, Miss Clara Holbrook, these
young sisters, and also Mrs. Lydia D.
Alder, are all engaged as missionaries, as
laborers in the field, devoting themselves
wholly and solely to the spread of righteous- 
ness and correct principles, giving freely of
that which is more precious than the wealth
of the world.
	The Elders, who without purse or scrip
are proclaiming the everlasting Gospel in

[Column 2]
all parts of the earth, even upon the islands
of the sea, and these with the hundreds of
Home missionaries throughout the several
Stakes of Zion, in the Rocky mountain
region, must certainly arouse greater zeal
and enthusiasm, and make an impression
that cannot be erased on the minds and
hearts of the honest in heart wherever their
lot may be cast. Although there are many
people inclined to scepticism, yet there are
still others who are looking for something
higher and more satisfying than they can
find among the theories heretofore extant
in the world; and occasionally these honest
seekers for truth are found, one here and
another there, and are convinced of divine
revelation to the people in this dispensation
through a prophet sent of God as in days of
old. “Blessed are they who know the
voice of the Good Shepherd,” and are will-
ing to leave all and follow Him.
	The persecution that has been aroused in
our own country, “the land of the free and
the home of the brave,” is most lamentable,
and one cannot but recall the words of the
Savior in contemplating the situation: “It
must needs be that offences come, but woe
be to him by whom they come.” But his-
tory has proven repeatedly that “the blood
of the martyrs is the seed of the Church.”
And there is no doubt of the truth of the
scripture, “Surely the wrath of man shall
praise thee; the remainder of wrath shalt
thou restrain.”


