[Column 1] 
ABROAD IN LONDON.
	Here we are in London, England, hav-
ing escaped the perils of the great deep,
and railway travels, rain, hail and wind,
thunder and lightning, both at sea and on
land, as well as the noise and various other
inconveniences, and landed safe at Liverpool
and reached destination alone after arriving
at Eustis station: Mrs. Gaffney, the only
one we really knew, going off in a “four-
wheeler” to the Hotel Cecil, and the writer
to the Westminster. Rain pouring down in
torrents, but the very idea of driving through
the streets of this famous city, and catch-
ing a glimpse of the House of Parliament
and Westminster Abbey would compensate
for anything, unless an earthquake or cy-
clone. Emotion, sentiment, every mental
and spiritual sense awakened to its highest
activity; tears as well as rain were stream-
ing down, and it was well for the moment
to be alone. Indeed it seemed good to be
alive, and it was not necessary to pinch
one’s self, as a friend since remarked she
had to, to realize the fact of an actual living
personality, possessed of heart and brain.

“If thou hast not the tender heart-throb, pitying,
Proclaiming kinship of a deep world-love,
	Thou hast not lived.”

	There are no words to express the deep-
est emotion awakened in one, of a truly
sympathetic feeling for all delightful things
existing in nature and the great world.
	Westminster Abbey two minutes walk
from the hotel, think of it! and all the
time in view if one looks out of the win-
dow; also the great Parliament clock, called
here “Big Ben,” so one can always know
the correct time. Yet, in a way, we have
not a minute to do anything outside of the
Council and Congress, and so many meet-
ings are held at the same time that the puz-
zle is which to attend. But one can only
get into two meetings in the same morning
or afternoon, (not even the reporters unless
they are fleet of foot) because the distances
are too great from one place of meeting to
another, but usually two are held in one
building; for instance: in the Large Hall,
Westminster Town Hall, and the Small
Hall, and the same is true of some other
buildings; yet when there is a business or
executive session, those of us who have
the privilege of attending know where we
must go.
	The entertainments are certainly a
very great feature of the International
Council. Concerts and theatres fade into

[Column 2]
insignificance in comparison to receptions
given by the elite of London, or, one might
say, of British nobility to members of the
Congress.
	The opening of Stafford House, where
one is received by the Countess of Aber-
deen, the Duchess of Sutherland and
Countess of Warwick, all three, is indeed a
remarkable thing for any organization of
women in this very exclusive country
where the lines of class distinction are so
strongly marked. To describe all this, or
even a small part of it, would take more
time than the writer can give while here;
that must come afterwards.
	The reception at Stafford House was
Monday, June 26, from 9 to 12 p. m. The
magnificence of the house is bewildering in
its effect upon one new to such splendor.
	Surrey House reception, given by Lady
Battersea, was on Wednesday, 9:30 to 12
p. m. Lord Battersea received with his
wife. The house was more antique than
that of Stafford; the affair was, however,
quite as brilliant.
	Saturday afternoon, July 1, 4:30 to 7,
garden party at Fulham Palace given by
the Lord Bishop of London and his wife,
Mrs. Creighton. This palace is four
miles’ drive from Hyde Park corner,
though it is also reached by district rail-
way and Putney omnibus.
	Other official entertainments come next
week, of which we hope to write later, if
we survive the excitement.
	We are constantly being asked if the
meetings of the Council and the various
Congresses come up to our expectations.
We can answer both yes and no—some are
wonderful, and all have some excellent
features, but there are also some things not
reaching the highest standard of excellence.
And although there are on all occasions
from twenty to thirty reporters at the tables
reserved for them, yet the London papers
give very meagre accounts of the proceed-
ings, or even of the official receptions.
	There are so many great meetings and
great occasions of various kinds in this
far-famed city of the world, that even an
International Council and Congress of Wo-
men from many countries is only one
among the many assemblies. Parliament
is drawing to a close and the intense inter-
est of the British empire must centre more
particularly there, as well as with the great
banking and commercial welfare of the
land, so far as newspapers are concerned.
	We have not yet visited 42 Islington,
Liverpool, though we anticipate doing so;
but today we have been to the headquarters
of the Elders in London. We attended fast
meeting at 2 p. m. in Myddleton Hall, a
very nice, comfortable meeting room,
where several of our party bore testimony.
In the evening meeting we were privileged
to partake of the sacrament, and had the
opportunity of speaking again to a much
larger congregation. After meeting we
talked with the president of the Confer-
ence and of the branch about organizing a
Relief Society; this will possibly be accom-
plished during the present week. There
was a branch of the Relief Society here for
some years, but it has died out for want of
proper understanding and on account of
the president’s delicate health. We found
a very good spirit prevailing in the meeting
and among the brethren and sisters of the
branch, though it is difficult to understand
why people who have been many years in
the Church do not have an ardent desire
to gather to Zion. More anon.


