[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
	A young woman bent over a coat sleeve
made of coarse fustian. It belonged to a
half finished garment lying on a chair.
	She stitched away buisily by the light of
a dip candle, standing on the wooden table.
	The room was humbly furnished, evi-
dently the home of a farmer.
	Deborah Sampson—for so the young
woman was called—was a rather remark-
able looking person. Tall, of athletic
build, yet a close observer might have
been surprised to see her small, tapering
hand and dark attractive face. Her
skin was clear and white, enhancing
the beauty of her slumbrous brown eyes and
thick, soft black hair, and showing the
sweet mouth and pearly teeth. She had an
attractive personality, though she seemed
to be unaware of it, her whole mind centered
on an absorbing passion to serve her coun-
try.
	To look at her, one knew that some-
where, sometime, Deborah Sampson had
known better circumstances, for the turn of
her graceful head and the shapely hand
plying the needle betrayed gentle parents—
and this was true of her, for she was des-
cended from William Bradford, governor of
the colony of Plymouth, her grandfather
being Elisha Bradford, a man of consider-
able note, his wife a French woman by
name Bathsheba C. Broche, and their
daughter was Deborah's mother. Her
grandfather had been rich but suddenly

[Column 2]
lost his money and took to a seafaring life,
hence her parents were very poor.
	Deborah was born at Plympton, in Ply-
mouth County, Massachusetts, in December,
1760. When she became of age she had a
home with a farmer, Mr. Thomas. She
had a singular tenacity of purpose and at
this time she was greatly interested in the
revolution which had broken out. During
the day she worked hard at spinning, in
the dairy, and in the fields raking hay, or
binding oats. She could harness a horse
equally well, and often sprang on one and
rode off for a long canter over the country
roads. If a spare moment came she sat
poring over books which she borrowed
from the school children, and every scrap of
news about the war she read eagerly.
	At eighteen she contrived by teaching a
small district school to save twelve dollars,
and with this she bought some coarse fus-
tian, cut out a suit of men’s clothes for her-
self, and thus it was she sat sewing by the
lonely candle.
	“There is no escape for me,” she thought.
“The way is marked out for me. I must
leave these peaceful scenes and enlist in the
army.”
	There was a look of dreamy ecstacy on
her face. It seemed on the previous night,
she had a strange dream. She thought she
stood on the summit of a high hill, in view
of the sea, where a terrific storm raged.
Suddenly a huge serpent wound its way to
her. She fought it bravely, conquering it,
and then she awoke, filled with an over-
powering desire for a real battlefield, a real
foe to attack.
	The utter silence of the small room gave
her mind full play, and she thought of the
weeks to come.
	At this moment something was thrown
against the window.
	“ ’Tis he, David Brenton," she murmured.
	The sound was repeated. She extin-
guished the light, pushed aside the cur-
tains and looked out.
	The night was warm in the early spring,
the breath of the budding flowers filled the
air, and the moon shone above her.
	She was very lovely as she stood there,
revealed to the anxious lover beneath the
window. She wore a full white muslin
shirt, drawn in by a black laced bodice.
She had unfastened it about her throat, and
her dimpled neck lent a statue-like simplici-
ty to her beauty.
	“Deborah,” he said, in a low voice, “I
knew you were there, for I saw the light.”
	“Well," she asked, in her melodious voice,
"Why do you come? Why don’t you stay
away?"
	"Because, sweetheart, it’s impossible. I
love you and hope in time you will return
my love.”
	Deborah laughed.
	“It’s quite useless. Why wear out your
life running after a shadow? I shall never
love you.”
	“I don’t believe it. Surely, if for no
other reason, think of your mother. She
wishes for our union, and think, Deborah, of
the beautiful home I can give you. Try to
love me darling,” he urged. He was a

[Column 3]
man of wealth, and loved her devotedly.
	“I am sorry I have to repeat my no, be-
cause I’ve said it so often, you must be
tired of hearing it.”
	“What will you do when you leave
here? Where will you go? I have heard
you think of making a change,” he said,
ignoring her refusal, as he invariably did.
	"Of that I cannot speak, as it only con-
cerns myself, and it’s no use trying to find
out, for I will not say.”
	He talked of something else and she
gradually got from him that the soldiers in
Boston were in need of food.
	"Why is it, Deborah, you revert to the
war? You are greatly interested in it, are
you not?" he inquired. He saw her face
beam with that wonderful light of courage
and inspired aspiration.
	“I scarcely know,” she said. “I’m sor-
ry, sorry, I’m not a man. If I was I’d
shoulder a firelock and march against the
Red Coats. Yet here within me is the
longing to help these brave men. God
give me strength to find out the way,”
she added beneath her breath, and soon
David Brenton departed.
	When he was gone, she tied up her bun-
dle of work and slipped out of the house,
across a meadow, and close by a large hay-
stack in which she concealed it. This
done, she returned to her room, and then re-
tired for the night.
	Thus she worked daily on the suit,
and at length it was finished. She
sent to the soldiers in Boston, as soon as she
could[-] a few fowl and sheep of her own
raising, bought with some of her hard
earned money at Mr. Thomas’.
	She saw her mother frequently. She
lived in a ramshackle old place, at a short
distance, and the elder woman often urged
the suit of David Brenton, but in vain.
Deborah made a final decision in her own
mind, she would enlist in the army as a
private, disguising herself as a man in the
suit of fustian, which was safely stowed
away in the haystack. She had but to
make the venture and all was before her.
She gave the good people notice, saying
she wanted higher wages, and intended
going to some other town. In a day or
two it was settled between them.
	She tied up a few articles she might re-
quire, and just as the dawn peeped forth,
on a cool day in May, after a kind farewell
to Mr. Thomas and his wife, she started off
for Staunton Mills, and later for Worcester
and the American camp. She wore on
this morning her usual costume, a brown
woolen skirt, white shirt and laced bodice.
The farmer and his wife watched her out of
sight, and when she found she was un-
observed she ran into the meadow, snatched
the suit of fustian out, wrapped it in her
bundle and on she went. She did not say
good-bye to her mother, nor let her know of
her intended departure. At times this
struck home to her, but she thrust the
longing from her. She soon reached a
track of dense woodland, and screened by
the thick bushes she proceeded to change
her apparel, and slipped into the rough
suit of fustian. She stepped forth in a few


