[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SAN LUIS STAKE.
	Minutes of a Relief Society conference
held in the Manassa Stake house, May 12,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Cornelia Mortensen presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, “Now let us
rejoice.” Prayer by Brother Charles Cot-
ton. Singing, “Do what is right.”
	Sister Cornelia Mortensen said we were
assembled to hold our Relief Society con-
ference, and she felt grateful to our Heaven-
ly Father for this privilege. Hoped we
would receive the spiritual food we so
much need.
	Sister Mary Jensen gave a report of Los
Cerritos branch of the Relief Society. Said:
“I am glad to meet the sisters in confer-
ence and feel that we will be blessed while
thus assembled. If we ‘do what is right
and let the consequence follow’ we will be
all right. The sisters of Los Cerritos are
very much interested in our Relief Society,
and the brethren seem to think we are do-
ing well. We read the Doctrine and
Covenants. We have some Mexican sis-
ters enrolled, and they take a great inter-
est in the labor. We should observe clean-
liness and teach it in the Relief Society, do

[Column 2]
good where we can, uphold the authorities,
pray for all and be exemplary.”
	Sister Margaret Hamil, of Morgan, said: “I
always feel like doing my duty, for I know
I have to work out my own salvation. We
are getting along fairly well at Morgan, we
have more enrolled than usual. We have
some money, property and wheat on hand,
and have a lot bought and paid for where
we intend to build a house of our own. I
would exhort the sisters to be faithful in
their duties and qualify themselves to be
able to give a cause for the hope that is
within them.”
	Sister P. E. Cullers, Mountain View
branch, said: "My brethren and sisters,
being called to give a report of the Moun-
tain View and Bountiful branches of the
Relief Society, I will endeavor to do so to
the best of my ability. The sisters are de-
sirous of doing all the good they can in for-
warding the work of the Relief Society.
We have an enrollment of twenty mem-
bers.”
	Sister Rosa Koch, of Manassa, read an
essay entitled, “The Home and Mother as
They Influence our Lives.”
	Sister Magdaline Funk said: “I am glad
to meet with my sisters in conference and
have rejoiced in listening to the reports
given. Let us be awake to our duties,
these societies are a great aid to the Bishops.
The sisters in their visits can find out the
circumstances of families that the brethren
cannot. I pray God to bless us all. Amen.”
	Sister Dollie Russell bore a strong testi-
mony to the truthfulness of the Gospel.
Said she had seen the power of God
made manifest in many ways.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Sister Maria
Harrison.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing “How firm a foundation.” Prayer
by Brother Robert Coleman. Singing, “O,
Ye mountains high.”
	Sister M. Sellers gave a report of Manas-
sa ward. Said the sisters were united and
they were trying to do all the good they
could.
	Sister Margaret Haskel gave a report of
her visit to the conference of the Relief
Society in Salt Lake City. She said she
had not felt more of the spirit of God in any
meeting than in the Relief Society confer-
ence. One sister was moved upon to speak
in tongues, and it was interpreted by
another sister. Many important subjects
were talked upon: one was unity, another
the storing of grain.
	Sister Mary F. Crowther presented the
general and local officers of the Relief Soci-
ety, and they were unanimously sustained;
also called the roll and read the minutes of
last conference.
	Sister Forthilda Funk gave a report of
Sanford ward. She said they were trying
to improve and all were feelfng well.
	Song by Sister Ada L. Maloy, entitled
“O, my Savior.”
	Sister Emily Dunn, of Eastdale, said in
reporting their society she desired to be
led by the Spirit of God. She said she had
nothing but good to say of her sisters, and
every sister in the ward had her name en-
rolled.
	Brother Orlando Funk was somewhat
surprised at being called to speak in this
conference. Bore his testimony that the
Spirit of God had been with us. He spoke
at length on cleanliness, habits and duties of
mothers.
	Sister Melvina Hutchins said she had

[Column 3]
been well paid for coming to meeting today,
and bore her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel and power of healing by the priest-
hood, and was thankful to her Heavenly
Father for this testimony.
	Sister Irene Smith said she was thankful
to have the privilege of speaking and bear-
ing her testimony to the truth of the
Gospel; also spoke of the necessity of form-
ing good habits.
	President Cornelia Mortensen gave a re-
port of her visits together with her coun-
selors in the various wards in the Stake.
Said they found the sisters striving to do
their duties with renewed energy. Spoke
at length on cleanliness, and exhorted the
sisters to put into practice the instructions
given.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, “Come, come ye Saints.” Bene-
diction by Sister Annie Westover.
CORNELIA MORTENSEN, Pres.
