[Column 1]
abide with Sister Zina D. H. Young and
the great and grand organization over
which she presides.
			SARAH A. BARNES,
					Stake Sec. R. S.
		SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Salt
Lake Stake, was held in the Assembly
Hall, Saturday, September 2, 1899, com-
mencing at 10 a. m., President M. Isabella
Horne presiding. On the stand, beside
President Horne, were her counselors,
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon,
Corresponding Secretary Maria W. Wilcox,
and Aid Julia C. Howe; also President B.
W. Smith, of the General Board, and Sis-
ter Elizabeth J. Stevenson.
	Meeting opened by singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Counselor C. C. Cannon. Continued by
singing, “For the strength of the hills,”
etc. Roll called: city wards represented,
20; country wards, 20. Minutes of pre-
vious conference read and accepted.
	The secretary stated that she had great
difficulty in getting in reports in time to
make Stake report; urged greater prompt-
ness.
	President Horne gave valuable instruc-
tions to the sisters on the duties of mothers
in training their children, and duties in the
Church. “Out of the 2717 members re-
ported, we should have a much larger at-
tendance at meeting this morning.” Said
she was pleased to see such a good repre-
sentation of officers. Felt sure that all the
sisters could make arrangements to come to
conference once in three months, if they
had sufficient interest.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said:
“The word of the Lord to the Saints is that
the sisters and the Saints should pay tith-
ing and donations, and not let the names
of the brethren alone appear on the books.
Teach your children to keep the Sabbath
day holy; teach them to pray and observe
the Word of Wisdom.”
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said: Every
one comes here to gain instruction, and be
able to carry home to her society something
that will be of benefit. Our report shows
that the attendance at the ward meetings is
not so large as it should be. There is a great
responsibility resting upon the officers.
There are just as good women outside the
society as there are in it, but they have
not the spirit of Relief Society work. How
many are going to work to help bring them
in and inspire them? The younger sisters
should be more interested, for it is a noble
work of sacrifice and doing good. Many
of our nurses are doing a noble work of
charity among the sick and needy. We ex-
pect soon to organize classes for young
ladies and young mothers, where lectures
on hygiene, physical development, etc.,
will be given. Impress upon your children
at your knee the divinity of the mission of
Joseph Smith, that when they go out
among the nations, they may have the
spirit of truth burning in their hearts.”
	Counselor M. M. Daniels, of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, expressed great
pleasure in meeting with us, this being her
first opportunity of doing so. Rejoiced in
all she had heard here. Spoke of the good
results of paying tithing, and gave many
good instructions. “The young people
have too much amusement, for it keeps
them in a state of excitement. One amuse-
ment follows so quickly upon another, that

[Column 2]
their minds never have a chance to calm
down. It is really injurious to their
nervous system.” Thanked the Lord that
she had seen and known the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and had a testimony and knowledge
of the divinity of his mission. She was
healed of chills and fever when she was
baptized at the age of nine years.
	President Sarah J. Cannon, of the Gener-
al Board, said if we would follow out the
instructions we had heard this morning, we
would certainly see good results. Spoke of
her son being healed by the administration
of the Elders. This morning he had left
home to go on a mission. When people
who are outside our Church asked her what
we believe in, she told them that we be-
lieve in what the Savior taught when He
was here upon the earth. Some had said to
her that they did not think we wished to
talk about our religion. She told them
this was a mistake, for we wished every
man, woman and child on the earth to have
a complete knowledge of our faith, that all
the human family might be benefited
	President Mary Ann Hyde, of the Relief
Society of Sanpete Stake, said: “The
progress of this work is marvelous when
we think of the small number at the com-
mencement, and the great extent of the
work now. The mission of President Snow
is wonderful, and he is awakening the
Saints to a sense of duty, and doing a great
work. Do not fall into a state of lethargy.”
	President Horne felt that the time had
been well occupied. Desired a larger at-
tendance in the afternoon to hear the in-
structions that were to be given. She had
received a letter from Sister Lydia D. Alder
from London, and she sent her love to the
sisters and expressed her interest in the
work.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, “The time is far spent.” Benedic-
tion by Sister Maria W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Meeting opened by
singing, “Come, come ye saints.” Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“Zion stands with hills surrounded,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas, Brother Charles Bar-
rell, Sisters Maggie C. Hull and Lizzie
Thomas. Minutes of afternoon session of
June conference read and accepted. Finan-
cial report read and accepted also.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon gave much
good instruction to young mothers. Said:
“Motherhood is the grandest mission on
earth. We, as mothers, should lead lives
such as our children should follow. If
there are some who are wayward in youth,
by this good example they may be influ-
enced to return to the fold. The Gospel is
the same that was preached by the Savior,
and is just as beautiful now as it was then.
Teach your children not to form acquain-
tances with those who are not of our faith
that will lead to marriage; ‘be ye not un-
equally yoked together.’ There is much
unhappiness results from such unions.”
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt her soul lifted up
in gratitude to the Lord for the instructions
given here. “In listening to them I often
wish that we might have had such in-
structions when I was young and rearing
my children. But our Heavenly Father
will excuse our ignorance. The young
women should identify themselves with the
Relief Society and assist the older sisters,
for they have had many advantages that
some of the older ones have not enjoyed.”
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson said: “It is
a great pleasure to me to meet with the sis-
ters, to look upon their faces. I am thank-

[Column 3]
ful to live in the day of prophets and
apostles. Our children should never be
permitted to forget the life of the Prophet
Joseph, and his work. The youth should
have correct principles instilled into their
minds. They should be taught economy,
that, through their extravagance, their
parents may not be called upon to mort-
gage their homes. They should be willing
to minister to the sick, go and read to them,
if they wish it. How much better the
young sisters can do this than the older
ones! Do not desire to be freed from the
care of looking after your children. They
will all be grown up, and you will be left
alone soon enough.”
	The quartette sang “I know that my Re-
deemer lives.”
	President Horne spoke on the subject of
tithing. Said: “It should make no differ-
ence to us what is done with the tithing.
How much does it take to keep the Tem-
ple open? to bring the missionaries home?
to pay clerks? and many other things. We
should not try to dictate to the Church
authorities. The Lord will pour out
blessings upon us if we pay our honest
tithing. At the annual meeting in the
branches, the presiding sisters should
be invited to come; it will increase the in-
terest in the respective society. A great
many of the branches of the society in this
Stake are leaving off their work meetings,
but this should not be done. Our work is
temporal as well as spiritual. These
meetings should be held once in two
weeks, and clothing should be made and
repaired and collected for the poor.”
Mentioned the shooting of a young lady in
the Southern States, who was trying to
protect the Elders from a mob.
	President Elmina S. Taylor, of the Y. L.
M. I. A., felt that she had lost much by
not being able to attend our meetings.
“The Relief Society has been the greatest
blessing of my life. No true and faithful
worker in the Relief Society is in danger of
apostatizing.” Was sorry to hear that
some of the branches had stopped their
work meetings, and President Horne had
not given any instruction for this
change.
	Sister Mary Freeze was the next speaker.
She felt thankful for the spirit of obedience
with which she had been blest. There is
a certain reverence due those who are
placed to preside over us. Felt to love
and honor those whom the Lord loved and
honored. Said all should live nearer to
their Heavenly Father, for the reins will be
drawn tighter, and those desiring to partici-
pate in the blessings of the Temple must
live better. Believed that the people were
endeavoring to do better in the matter of
tithing. When we do learn to obey our
Father, we will then be prepared to receive
fully the teachings that are given from
time to time.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb felt humble, and
felt as though the best women on earth were
associated here. Desired to be active in
the discharge of her duties. Was engaged
now, and always had been engaged in the
training of children. Bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel, and de-
clared herself to be anxious to do her duty
in every way. Hoped we would be pre-
pared for the sifting time, which is surely
near at hand.
	Conference adjourned to meet on the 2nd
of December. Singing, Doxology. Pray-
er by Elder C. J. Thomas.
