[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
[Continued.]
	During the absence of the vessel, the vil-
lage was quiet. I spent much time in read-
ing and writing. I read Mr. William’s
history of his missionary enterprises among
the South Sea Islands. I was much inter-
ested. I had never conceived an idea of
the immense numbers of islands where the
inhabitants had been taught the scriptures
of divine truth. To read of their savage
customs and terrible idolatry, and now to
see their docility, their genuine piety, their
ingenuity and skill in mechanics. Who
would presume to say that the British mis-
sionaries had not done them good? They
prepared the way for the true Gospel.
What good could we have done them had
they not had bibles and hymn books in
their own language, published by the mis-
sionary societies in England? They had
not taught them the fulness of the Gospel.
How could they, when they did not under-
stand it themselves? They should be ac-
credited for doing what they could.
	On the 7th of June we took an all day
march; climbed up the highest peak of the
mountain. The scenery below us was
grand indeed! The sublimity of the
mighty ocean, which lay stretched out be-
fore our wondering eyes, inspired us with
awe and reverence for Him who gave it its
bounds, and by His mighty power prevents
it from deluging the earth! We made
many little discoveries which interested us
very much. We found plants and shrubs
entirely new to us. There we found the
brake, so common in New England,
grown to a tree thirty feet high, leaves ten
feet long, the trunk six miles in diameter,
perfectly straight, of a pithy substance, af-
fording a beautiful shade for the wild goats
which are found at the mountain tops.
The charming little grottoes and arbors

[Column 2]
seemed alluring, almost sufficient to tempt
a lover of nature to seclude himself and live
alone in palaces human hands had not
formed. There he could sleep in the
bowers; no cold winter to freeze him; cool
breezes would fan him in the heat of the
summer; when hungry he could go to the
foot of the mountain and find plenty of
food and fruit, which is free for all. Where,
thought I, could another such a situation
be found in the grand wide world!
	After having fatigued ourselves till we
could scarcely walk at all, we bent our way
homeward. We plunged down the steep
precipices, through thickets where, before
entering, it seemed impossible to penetrate.
But we found goat paths in the dense
shrubbery which precipated our way down.
I, however, became so exhausted, I was
obliged to sit down on my feet and slide
myself along the declivities as best I could.
	When nearly down, Brother Hanks left
us and went ahead to prepare supper. We
had yet remaining a long walk. We sent
the children before us with sufficient appa-
ratus to make a dish of tea, with which we
had prepared ourselves. It consisted of a
coffee pot and two saucers. They went to
the first stream of water, struck a fire, and
had the tea made when we overtook them.
The tea, with other refreshments, so much
revived us that we were enabled to reach
home just as twilight disappeared. Ann
Louisa, my youngest, faithfully served me
as a staff coming down the mountain; she
did not seem to falter at all. No poor
travelers were ever more thankful to get to
a place of rest than we were that night.
We were lame for a week, but we did not
regret the excursion, neither would we had
it made us lame for a month.
	I could now say I had traversed the
highest peak of the mountains of Tabouai.
As we went up, we saw the natives grating
arrowroot to make what they call peas. The
grating is a novel method. A hard, stout
cord around a block of wood, tied firmly,
forms a grater. On this they pulverize the
root, which is something like an Irish pota-
to. Then through a cloth fastened onto a
frame they strain it off, rince it a number of
times, settle and drain off the water, and
it is done. It is then spread on cloth in a
close yard and dried in the sun. Nothing
can exceed it in whiteness. It is a pleasant
sight to see it spread in such immense
quantities, knowing how good it is for
food. The most delicate dishes can be
made of it with eggs and the milk of the
young cocoanut. All the while this labor
was going on the “dancers” kept up their
exercises. The members of the Church did
not mingle with those in their dancing,
though their labor was performed in com-
mon. It is their custom to make amuse-
ment of nearly every kind of labor.
	The cultivation of tarrow is quite labor-
ious. Swampy ground is chosen for the
raising of that vegetable. Running water
is kept constantly flowing over the patch of
tarrow, and when any is taken out the tops
are immediately replaced. It runs down-
ward like a beet, and grows about the size,
or some larger. It is a very good substi-
tute for bread. By replacing the tops it is
kept growing all the years with their
rounds.
	The Ravai by this time was due, six
weeks being her allotted time to make the
trip. We dared not expect her; and yet,
as though we really did, we walked on the
beach the evening of the set day, and gazed
upon the waters to see if we could discry
an object resembling a vessel. Frances

[Column 3]
exclaimed, “Oh, if I could see the Ravai
heave in sight I would dance for joy!”
At that instant the cry was heard: "Tohi
a hoi!” It sounded from one to another,
who all cried the same, till it was heard the
entire Island over. It was dusky, and we
could not discern it closely, but the natives
are never mistaken in such matters. She
lay off and on till morning, and came to
anchor at an early hour. Two hours be-
fore daydawn found us up preparing break-
fast and getting ready to receive our friends.
	It was the 20th of June, 7 o’clock in the
morning, when the friends came on shore.
Ellen was much pleased with her voyage.
She had excited much curiosity among
those who had never seen a white women
before. She carried with her a musical in-
strument with which she diverted many
who had never seen or heard any such
thing before. They made her many nice
presents, and two females proposed making
friends with her. This is a custom advan-
tageous to foreigners who come here for a
permanent residence. If you consent to
accept them as your friends, they will feed
you as long as they have a morsel for them-
selves. In return they will expect you to
divide with them, if they should need your
assistance.
	Brother Brown stopped a week with us,
and we had a fine visit. He is a promising
young man, and bids fair to make a good
Tahitan scholar and a faithful preacher of
the Gospel.
	Capt. Grouard left his wife on Suara, one
of the Chain Islands. He seemed in better
spirits than usual; free to act himself. His
wife is so disposed to be jealous that he ap-
pears under restraint in her presence, espe-
cially in the company of white women.
	Brother Brown had been kept a prisoner
in the Calaboose on Tahiti, for two or three
months, by order of the French govern-
ment, but had been released by the inter-
position of the American consul and per-
mitted to go to an island called Ravaivai.
	On the 5th of July, our schooner sailed
for the second time, to bring all the bull-
ocks from the island, which had been put
on the mountain to fatten for the market.
They were very wild, and great excitement
prevailed while the men were getting them
on board the vessel. Many of the natives
had never seen cattle before, and were terri-
fied at the sound of their bellowing and
their pawing in the earth.
	The boy, Hiram E. W. Clark, who
came with us from Salt Lake City, went
for a pleasure trip to Tahiti; Brother Hanks
went to join the Elders on the Chain Is-
lands. We were left lonely. All being
settled, we renewed the school. The
native boys seemed very anxious to learn
the use of figures. They commenced earn-
estly, but it soon became irksome to them.
They cannot stand strict discipline or close
application; everything taught them must
be presented in the shape of amusement.
	On the 24th of July I spent the day in
the “Fere bare ra” (prayer house) teaching.
It never once occurred to our minds that
the day was passing unheeded. We had
intended in some way to celebrate it; but
the white men were nearly all gone, not
enough of the right element to have an
agreeable assemblage.
[To be continued.]


“MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER recently spent
several days very delightfully at Northfield
in attendance upon the Christian Workers’
Conference.”


