[Column 1]
hymn, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.” Prayer by Sister Breckenridge.
Singing, “Come let us anew, our journey
pursue.” Roll was called and minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.
Members present, eleven. 
	Sister Oden spoke for a short time. Said
that she was thankful that she belonged to
our society; that she felt like going ahead
and doing what she could.
	Sister Hawkins said that the Lord would
bless us if we would be faithful, and prayed
that we might continue in the Gospel.
	Sister Baker bore her testimony with
much feeling. Desired always to be faith-
ful and do her part, both in the Church
and in the society.
	Sister Dixon spoke of the true prophet of
God. Said we were just starting and must
have a foundation—trust in the Lord. Ex-
horted us to keep ourselves pure, and bore
a strong testimony to the truthfulness of
the Gospel.
	Sister Gooing was thankful to meet with
us again. Expressed her willingness to do
all she could to aid the society.
	Singing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Sister Breckenridge felt thankful that she
lived in this day of the restoration of the
Gospel. She hoped that we would all go
ahead and be faithful, and we would be
blessed.
	Sister Miller felt well and thought the
Lord would bless us if we did what we
could. Testified that she knew that we
had the true Gospel.
	Sister Smith, of Thistle, Utah, who was
visiting with us, said she would soon have
to leave for her home, and might never see
us again in this life; but she felt we would
meet in the next. Knew the Lord would
bless us, He had blessed her.
	The sisters then sang, “Earth with her
ten thousand flowers.
	Sisters Breckenridge, Gooing, Dixon and
Budge each donated ten cents.
	Singing, “O, my Father.” Benediction
by Sister Hawkins.
			LUCY BRECKENRIDGE, Pres.,
			MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.
HAMBURG, GERMANY.
	The Relief Society of Hamburg is in a
very flourishing condition. It is presided
over by Sister Reicht, with Sister Ahers as
first counselor and another good sister,
whose name I do not remember, as second
counselor. They meet twice a month, a
work meeting and a testimony meeting
alternately. They have not many poor,
for they are nearly all poor, but through
untiring efforts, they succeed in almost pay-
ing the rent of the hall where the Relief
Society meetings are held.
	They are earnest workers in the cause,
and desire to do all they can to roll on the
great work of the Latterdays. They enter-
tain the Elders all it is possible for them to
do, some inviting them to take a meal a
week with them, some do part of their
washing and others mend their clothes.
My heart went out to them in their great
efforts to bless the Elders when sent to
them, out of their scanty store.
	They desire to come to Zion, it being
their dream by day and by night. They
love the sisters in Zion. They knit socks
and stockings, let their president buy
towels and other necessary articles, on
which she gets ten per cent off, they paying
the regular store price, so as to let that
much go into the treasury. They have a
secretary and treasurer.

[Column 2]
	Of course they do not use quilts in
Germany, so those avenues we have at
home are not open to them to assist them in
gathering means. The light feather bed,
which, by the way, is decidedly comfortable
on a cold night, and a spread is all they
have on their beds. But they are so earn-
est and intelligent, the love of Zion quick-
ens their understanding and the cause they
work in makes it a labor of love.
	Three meetings were held and one
officers’ meeting. President Reicht enter-
tained some of the Elders and myself, as
also did Sister Ahers. Both of these fami-
lies are getting near the day when they
may come to Zion. Some of the other sis-
ters invited us to their homes also, among
them being Sister Schroder, who puts every
spare ten penny into a box, thus saving
the money to get to Zion.
	I spoke to the first German meeting of
sisters on July 24, 1899. They send their
love to President Zina D. H. Young and
all the other sisters in Zion. They would
have all come down to the boat when I
left, only that it did not go out until 11:30
p. m. Still some came with the brethren,
who would not say good bye, but “We’ll
meet again in Zion.”
WE’LL MEET AGAIN IN ZION.
	To the Saints in Hamburg and my friends.

We’ll meet again in Zion, fair Zion far away,
And clasp each friendly hand on that gladsome
	day;
We’ll see the mountains rising, snow-capp'd to
	the skies,
And the lake on whose fair bosom the evening
	sunset lies.

We’ll meet again in Zion, where God’s own Tem-
	ple stands,
And tell how we as strangers, glad meet in fore-
	ign lands;
As comrades in the Vineyard, where hearts so
	closely meet,
Brave toiling on midst trials, to tell the story
	sweet.

How Christ will come to Zion, His church to teach
	anew,
And choose His very own, His jewels not a few;
Then may we meet in Zion, though oceans inter-
	vene
And roll forever onward, that land and us be-
	tween.

Then, too, in that blest Zion, the city paved with
	gold,
May we amid its splendors, our Savior’s face be-
	hold;
O, there where Saints are gathered from every 
	land and clime,
May we hear the welcome plaudit, “Beloved you
	are mine.”

And through the countless ages, eternities un-
	born,—
When the purple hills of Paradise, gently kiss the
	morn;
And Life’s flowing river, for aye glides smooth
	along,
May we join in the chorus of the New, Unchang-
	ing Song.
						LYDIA D. ALDER.
	North Sea, August 10, 1899,
			FREMONT.
	A delightfully successful tour through
this (the Fremont) Stake has just been
completed by the Stake presidency of our
Relief Society and others, accompanied by
Sister L. L. Greene Richards, of Salt Lake
City.
	Sister Richards came to Rexburg on the
23rd of July, and went on to Haden, in
Teton Valley, forty miles from here, where
she spent Pioneers’ Day with her sister,
Mrs. M. G. Homer, and daughter. On the
25th Sister Homer and daughter accompan-
ied Sister Richards back to Rexburg, where
they were joined by Relief Society Stake

[Column 3]
President Temperance Hinckley, and First
Counselor Mary S. Anderson.
	These sisters commenced their trip
through the Stake on Wednesday, July 26.
Their first meeting was held with the Re-
lief Society of Salem Ward. Continuing
their travels and visits, they held meetings
with the sisters in each of the following
named wards: Island, Lyman, Burton,
Rexburg, Hyatt, Egin, Parker, Ora, Wil-
ford, Twin Groves, Fall River, Mary’sville,
Teton City, Pratt, Chapin, Darby, Ray-
mond, Leigh and Haden.
	With the exception of Jackson’s Hole
and, I think, one or two other small, scat-
tered settlements, where as yet not enough
women reside to form a Relief Society,
every ward in the Stake was visited. 
	Besides the Relief Society meetings, the
sisters met with the Young Ladies’ and
Primary associations in some instances,
where such meetings could be arranged.
	Sisters Flamm, Black and Atkinson
joined the company of visiting sisters in
some of the wards. In several instances
they were also favored with the presence
and support of Stake President Thomas E.
Ricks, his counselor, Wm. F. Rigby, and 
Patriarch A. E. Hinckley. The Bishops
and other leading brethren also showed a
kindly interest in the work of the sisters in
most of the wards.
	There were two wards in which it was
found the removal and resignation of
the Relief Society president rendered re-
organization necessary; and several of the
branch societies were needing to be aroused
and reminded that the duties required at
the hands of the sisters in the society were
of vast importance, and must be diligently
attended to. But in the majority of cases,
good, harmonious work was being done;
and an eagerness to be taught how to im-
prove and progress was manifested by the
brave, noble women who are pioneering
their portion of the work of the Lord in
these comparatively new settlements.
	In all the meetings held by the sisters in
this annual visit through the Stake, the
teachings were of a remarkably elevating
and purifying nature, combining temporal
and spiritual matters in a way to be clearly
understood by all.
	The Relief Society throughout, and the
Young Ladies’ and Primary Associations,
were urged to take an active interest in all
each other’s welfare; to visit back and forth,
encouraging and sustaining each other with
their united faith and prayers, as well as by
good words and works. The law of tithing
and kindred topics were impressively ex-
plained and illustrated, together with near-
ly, if not all, the principles and doctrines
belonging to the Gospel of salvation, both
for the present and the future life.
	“Sister Lula” (as we like to designate
L. L. Greene Richards) being the principal
speaker in all the meetings which have
been mentioned here, took especial care
never to neglect presenting a loving mes-
sage and blessing to the sisters of the Fre-
mont Stake from the honored and beloved
president of the Sisterhood, Sister Zina D.
H. Young, and her counselors; in response
to which, on behalf of the Sisterhood of the
Fremont Stake of Zion, we sincerely re-
turn love and gratitude to dear “Aunt
Zina” and her associates; and thank her
and them for sending us the motherly
benedictions and instructions by so worthy
and capable a messenger as our dear Sister
Lula.
	May the peace and love of heaven ev


