[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, July 8, 1899,
with Counselor Elizabeth Webb presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray!” Prayer by Sister Gib-
son. Singing “We thank Thee, O God,
for a prophet.” Minutes of previous meet-
ing read and approved.
	Sister Webb said she was glad to see so
many present; felt that we need to come
often together to refresh our minds, for we
all need the help of the Lord. A special

[Column 2]
prayer was offered by Sister Webb for Sister
Samson, who is very sick.
	Sister Lambert said we make great pro-
fessions to be the Saints of God, felt it a
great privilege to be called such, but it is
necessary to ask the Lord continually to
help us to do our duty. Felt that the
society work was very elevating: to look
after the sick and afflicted, the poor, etc.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of the
pleasant time she had at an old folks'
gathering the previous day; that she was
presented with a fan, as she was the only
one present who had had her endowments
in the day of the Prophet Joseph Smith;
also spoke of the necessity of tithe paying.
Don’t borrow or be in debt, was an exhor-
tation she made. Said she had the privi-
lege of attending the solemn assembly in
the Temple, July 2nd.
	Sister Pixton spoke of the goodly num-
ber present. Said she felt that it increased,
the spirit of God for many of the sisters to
meet together. Spoke of the way in which
the Lord had blessed her. She was pleased
to say that her husband had always paid
tithing. Spoke of the danger of allowing
children to have money to waste, but be-
lieved in doing good with it. Do not
waste our time, for there is many a sin of
omission as well as commission.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon knew that no
sister would go from this meeting without
a blessing if she was seeking for one.
Thought it was necessary to be practical
women and improve ourselves. Spoke of
our blessings, and said that we should be
thankful for them.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the charity and
humility Sister Pixton had always shown.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde expressed her
thankfulness at meeting again with the
sisters. Thanked the Lord for restoring
her daughter. Felt that if we respect
the head, the mouthpiece of God, we would
never go astray. Spoke of the way we
were misrepresented in the world. Spoke
of visiting the Johns Hopkins Hospital,
said to be the best in the world. Read the
requirements of a nurse in the same; also
spoke of the indifference there was for the
Gospel in the world. Said to the nurses
present, that their president, Mrs. Riter,
would like reports from them.
	Dr. Roberts said she did not know what
President Horne required her to do today,
but she desired the spirit of the Lord to
prompt her to do and say what was required.
Explained to the nurses what was required
of them in this charity work. Said Dr.
Richards had stated that where these
nurses had attended his patients, he had
nothing but good words for them; that they
were as competent as if they had taken a
four years’ course. Spoke of the noble
character that had been made manifest
among them, and said some had com-
plained because they felt they could not do
the charity work they had promised to.
Said Sister Hyde would take charge of the
nurses in the absence of Sister Riter.
	Counselor Webb said President Horne
was absent on account of an accident which
had befallen her. Announced that there
would be a Relief Society excursion to
Saltair on the 28th of July. Said she knew
that through obedience we would re-
ceive blessings. She exhorted the wom-
en of the society to be exemplary.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Prayer by Sister Clara C.
Cannon.
