J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.

	Minutes of meeting, held in the 14th
ward hall, August 19, 1899, Counselor E.
J. Stevenson presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "Redeemer
of Israel," Prayer by Counselor Steven-
son. Singing, "Lord we come before Thee
now."
	Sister Stevenson said that President
Horne had gone south. Trusted that
while we were together we should have a
profitable time. "I am now, and have
been, passing through, it seems to me, the
most severe trial of my life. But the
Lord knows why; I am trying to acknowl-
edge His hand and say ‘Thy will, O Lord,
not mine, be done.’ This is what we all
have to come to. We are told we are to be
tried like gold, seven times purified in the
furnace, and the Lord knows what will try
us most." Admonished the sisters to be
faithful and true to their covenants, 
and go to the Temple whenever possible; it would
give them renewed power to overcome;
that is what we need continually.
	Sister Shaw said: "I feel to rejoice that
I am here this afternoon, and enjoy the
good spirit. I feel thankful for the Gospel.
I came here when I was a young girl and I
have tried to bring my children up in the
right way. I have done a great deal of
Temple work and I hope to do more. I
thank the Lord for all His goodness to me."
	Sister Dickison said: "That I may keep
faithful is the greatest desire of my heart.
The greatest blessing is the spirit of the
Lord. He has lengthened out my days
through obedience to His laws. I have
tried to live right; to be an example to
those around me. I thank the Lord for the
privilege of coming to Zion. I prayed to
the Lord when a child, and I was healed
by the power of God, and promised I
should be better and gather to Zion, and
that the angels of the Lord should adminis-
to me in times of need, which has been
verified. What a testimony it has been to
me! We now live in a time when we
need a great testimony. Let us be honest
in our dealings with each other and the
world. We all have an experience to pass
through. I have great faith in the Gospel.
We should live our religion. I have had
many testimonies. I desire to teach my
children to do right. My children are all
to me." She then referred to poor Sister
Howard’s great grief in the accident to her
little boy.
	Sister Stevenson felt thankful for the
very pleasant interview we had enjoyed
and the good spirit that had been with us;
and suggested that we offer a special prayer
for the afflicted mother and friends in this
terrible accident, and for others who are
afflicted; also announced the conference in
two weeks at the Assembly Hall.
Meeting adjourned for four weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
