[Column 1]
LAYING OF CORNER STONE.
KEARN’S ST. ANN’S ORPHANAGE.
	The laying of the corner stone of the
Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage, marks an
epcoh in the history of Utah of which all
loyal citizens may be justly proud; and it is
ardently desirable that other men and wom-
en, whom the Lord has blessed with
abundant means, may follow the noble ex-
ample thus given by Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Kearns, who made it possible to establish
more permanently this charitable institu-
tion founded some time since by Bishop
Scanlan and the devoted Catholic ladies
and Sisters of Charity, by giving to St.
Ann’s Orphanage an edifice to which has
been appropriately added their name. The
building will be a very handsome one
when completed, and stands upon a large
plat of ground sufficient for its needs in the
way of play-grounds and other purposes.
	The ceremonies of laying the corner
stone were conducted by the Right Rev.
Bishop L. Scanlan, assisted by Vicar-Gen-
eral Dennis Kiely, under the waving stars
and stripes, and were of a very interesting
character. The exercises opened with
singing the hymn “Nearer my God to
Thee,” by the children’s choir, Miss Clara
Folek singing the solo. Then the corner
stone was laid by Bishop Scanlan, assisted
by Vicar General Kiely. The stone is
gray, three feet long and two wide. In
the box was placed a document containing
the following:
	The corner stone of the Kearn’s St. Ann’s
Orphanage, was laid on the 27th day of August,
1899, by the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; the supreme
pontiff at the time being Leo XIII.; the apostolic
delegate to the United States being Archbishop

[Column 2]
Sebastain Martinelli; the bishop of the diocese of
Salt Lake City being the Right Rev. L. Scanlan;
the President of the United States being William
McKinley; the Governor of the State of Utah
being Heber M. Wells, the Mayor of Salt Lake
City being John Clark; Utah’s representatives in
the Congress of the United States being Joseph L.
Rawlins, Senator, and Brigham H. Roberts, Con-
gressman.
	There has been deposited in this cavity: Copies
of the Salt Lake Tribune of August 27, 1899; the
Salt Lake Herald of August 27, 1899; the Deseret
Evening News of August 27, 1899, the Colorado
Catholic of August 26, 1899; a copy of the invita-
tion issued by the committee having in charge and
conducting the exercises of the laying of the corner
stone, and a copy of the program which was car-
ried out on this occasion. Coins of the United
States of the following values: One cent, a nickel,
a dime, twenty-five cents, a half dollar and a dol-
lar; a photograph of the Right Rev. L. Scanlan; a
photograph of Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Kearns and
children; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of St. Mary’s academy, Salt
Lake City; a pamphlet, being a descriptive cata-
logue of the work of All Hallow’s college, Salt
Lake City.
	The contractors for the construction of the
orphanage are Marrion & Fielding.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Aug. 27, 1899.
	The address of Bishop Scanlan was earn-
est, eloquent and tender, based upon the
familiar text found in the New Testament:
“Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is this to visit the fatherless
and widows in their afflictions and to keep
himself unspotted from the world.” The
Bishop enlarged upon the subject of “What
means Christianity?” and especially applied
the scripture texts “What ye do unto the
least of these ye do unto me,” and “Love
thy neighbor as thyself;” also that man
was made in the image of God; he referred to
the writings of St. Augustine, in which he
said “No relationship is nearer than that
which exists between man and man.” The
whole discourse was exceedingly impressive
and might be studied as a lesson of divine
love and charity, it certainly could not fail
to produce good results. It is published in
full in the daily papers.
	After the address, Mrs. Sutton, of Park
City, sang with organ accompaniment,
“The Holy City,” and Governor H. M.
Wells delivered a brief and telling address,
in which he aptly included the text, “It is
more blessed to give than to receive.”
Hon. C. S. Varian then presented the
memorial trowel made from Silver King
bullion, to Mr. and Mrs. Kearns, the
founders of the edifice of which the corner
stone had just been laid. In Mr. Varian’s
speech he presented some facts in relation
to the struggles of the orphanage in the
past, and paid a high compliment to the
efforts of Bishop Scanlan and the Sisters of
Charity.
	Mr. Kearns responded with many affec-
tionate allusions to his wife and her desire
to endow such an institute, her devotion,
and that of the noble and self-sacrificing
Sisters of Charity, to motherless children,
and added on his own part, “Even in my
short life there was one bright moment, one
ray of sunshine when I wrote the check
that provided for them a home,” and al-
luding to the trowel, “In years to come
when mine eyes shall rest upon this little
treasure, it will remind me that shrouds
have no pockets, and true charity
knows no creeds, and while we enjoy the
luxuries of the world, that beneath this
roof, the Kearn’s St. Ann’s Orphanage,
must never sleep a hungry child.”
	Senator J. L. Rawlins made the closing
speech, which was a beautiful tribute to
heavenly charity, and the founders and
benefactors of the home. He expressed

[Column 3]
the wish, and thought that “others would
be led to cast their bread upon the waters,
and thus dedicate a portion of their wealth
to so good a cause.”
	The exercises concluded by singing the
national hymn, “America,” in which the
choir and audience joined.


