in the house. We tried to win her con-
fidence, talked by an interpreter, assuring
her we were her friends, that we had come
to do her good. The supper was set before
us, every dish entirely new, except fowl
and fish. Everything was relished. I felt
no aversion to anything that was called
food, it was all delicious to my taste.
	The whole population assembled to
greet us: “Ia ora na otou te haera ra mai to
Tubuai nai,” (Peace be to you in coming
to Tubaui) went around and around.
Evening drew near, the singers came in to
sing. Long grass was laid for a floor, on
which they were seated. The music was
delightful! Their voices are loud and
clear, and no people can excel them in
keeping time. Queen Rapah came with
the rest, and I urged her to be seated in a 
chair, but she refused, so modest was she
and unwilling we should think she wished 
to assume any superiority above the other
women. The moon was then at its full,
and the house was surrounded with shade
trees covered with bright yellow flowers. I
looked upon the humble people seated on
the ground singing the praises of God. I
gazed  upon the scenery which surrounded
the dwellings: the pale rays of the moon
shining through the trees in a thousand
shapes; the tall cocoanuts waving their
branches high up in the azure vault; the
great itoes above all the rest; seen by the
queen of night, while the imagination was
warm with the reflection of the great dis-
tance we had come and the suffering we
had endured, all conspired to fill the mind
with ideas great with meaning. I said,
“God is in it all!”
	Brother Grouard sought to encourage us.
He believed that when the Messenger
(king’s vessel) returned from Tahiti,
Brother Pratt would come: it did not thus
prove. The idea of his being a prisoner
was painful to me, except when I con-
sidered it was for the Gospel’s sake we had
come to a strange world.
	A whole week was spent in conversa-
tion. Mr. Grouard had been preaching
among the Islands for seven years, had
heard very little from the Church. Great
things had transpired, he had many ques-
tions to ask. Hoatan, the native chief
who had the charge of us, ordered the
house repaired and the lot fenced. Seventy
banana trees were planted, and a garden
made with the seeds we had brought. Near-
ly all were new to the natives, they had
never seen any of our common vegetables.
Here in October we make our gardens.
Such cabbages I never saw grown before:
mammoth in very deed! Very soon we
had a fine flower garden to look upon. We
planted corn in November. We had only
to dig up the ground with a spade, it was

[Column 3]
loamy and mellow, everything grows ap-
parently by magic.
	Sister Grouard soon became accustomed
to our habits, and would in a small degree
conform to them. We find her rather a 
sensible, intelligent, ingenious woman.
	A letter arrived stating that the governor
on Tahiti would not permit Mr. Pratt to
leave that Island until all the Mormon
Elders would assemble in Tahiti and sign a
document, entering into an agreement to
teach nothing derogatory to the French
government. This was a trial of our pa-
tience, but we strove to bear it as graciously
as was possible. The good people were so
sympathetic they were ready to weep over
us. 
	The second week we all went to Mahu, a
village on the opposite side of the Island,
five miles over a mountain. We could
walk beneath the shade of trees the whole 
distance. It was where Mr. Pratt landed
when first he came on his mission. The
same family were still living in the same
house where he took up his abode.
They were very friendly. Their little
daughter, thirteen years of age, was the
wedded wife of Brother Alexander, the first
man on the Island baptized into the Mor-
mon faith. She looked like a mere child
and conducted herself like one. The old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) stood near the
beach, a tall ito tree in front of each door.
I went into the house where six years be-
fore my husband had been wont to pray. In
the pulpit, just as the sun was setting, I
kneeled before the Lord to thank Him for
preserving all our lives while crossing the 
great waters.
	The second day I returned on horseback.
The children complained of being lonely,
mourned the absence of their father. We
amused ourselves by teaching the native
women how to knit, and studying the lan-
guage.
	On Christmas Sister Crosby and I made
a feast for our families, inviting what few
white brethren and sisters were on our side
of the Island. We had string beans, cucum-
bers and green corn. That was something
to communicate to our kindred in the cold
regions of Lower Canada, where snow at
that season is often six feet deep.
	The people were very anxious to teach
us their language. Nearly all our evenings
were spent in reading and translating the
scriptures. It was a source of great
amusement: there are so many mistakes
made it excites merriment. The house
was thronged at night with natives reading
and singing. Many of them had never
seen a European woman. Our eldest
daughter played the flutina, which amused
and delighted them. It was no little diver-
sion for us to exhibit the little curiosities
we brought with us from San Francisco, to
witness their pleasure and admiration, hear
them eulogize America, and marvel that it
should contain so many wonderful things !
	I brought with me the likeness of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and of Hyrum, which
I hung against the wall of a room in the
