[Column 1]
paper mulberry tree for a long time before
the launching. They made it fine, bleached
it to a snowy whiteness, then stamped
with brilliant colors, all of home produc-
tion. Shapes of birds, flowers and fishes
were painted on their robes, also letters and
wheels, all of the brightest tints, which
contrasted strikingly with the white ground-
work. Both male and female were dressed in
white, their robes all the same fashion, made
whole, two yards in length, with a hole in
the center to put the head through. These
thrown carelessly over their white dresses
gave them a tasteful appearance.
	Early Monday morning we were assem-
bled to witness the parade. Officers were
chosen to conduct the movements. A
messenger was sent before to announce
their approach. There were two large com-
panies, each company occupying its own
space of ground in the dance. They had
no music, except their own vocal elements,
so loud and clear that one might imagine
himself listening to an Italian band. Their
dancing was with form and order; great
exactness in keeping time. To describe
the different exercises, the unheard of ges-
tures, and the scene throughout, would re-
quire the art of a sculptor and painter;
and they would come short of a just deline-
ation. The pile of food far exceeded all the
other wonders. To see provisions enough
to last two hundred and fifty persons a
whole week, all cooked and laid in one
huge pile, bound in bundles so thick with
leaves that not a particle of air could pene-
trate it, no more than it can jars of fruit
hermetrically sealed. Pigs weighing more
than a hundred weight, roasted whole and
tied up in the usual style, thrown on to the
heap, till it looked like a haystack of leaves.
	When the first exercise of dancing was
over, they commenced pulling at the ropes
fastened to the vessel’s sides, to move it to-
wards the coral reef. Many unsuccessful
efforts were made ere it was started at all.
They were obliged to take advantage of low
tides, or stand in deep water. The king’s
son, who was captain, stood in his place
with the scarlet coat on which I had made
him, and a glittering sword in his hand.
It was his prerogative to give the word of
command. Loud and incoherent ejacula-
tions, such as “a, te, a! te, a!” a signal
for them all to pull together. The wives
of the missionaries were idle spectators.
They had not as yet been invited to take
hold of the ropes. At length an old man
fastened on an extra rope and invited them
to help pull. We all stepped forward and
took hold of the rope with a will! It so
happened at that instant the vessel moved
for the first time. Loud acclamations re-
sounded, almost deafening, about the
strength of the “mau vahime papa,” (foreign
women.) For four successive days it was
moved a short distance each day. The
labor continued till the food was all con-
sumed; then the work was suspended to
cook more. We returned to our homes be-
fore the vessel was launched, those who
could not render important service.
	About the middle of May the schooner
Ravai was brought around to the village
where we lived. Great rejoicing was mani-
fest when she was seen under full sail.
She was anchored a mile and a half from
town. We all walked to the place and
went on board; sailed around till we were
opposite the town, and were taken to shore
in the small boat. Preparations had been
made for a voyage to Tahiti and the Chain
Islands. Mr. Grouard was appointed cap-

[Column 2]
tain and Mr. Alexander was first mate.
	Mr. Pratt and our eldest daughter took
passage on board the new ship Bavai. We
stood on the beach and saw her move off so
majestically, and we felt proud of her. The
native women who had sons on board, gone
for their first voyage, commenced weeping
and wringing their hands. We had not
thought of shedding tears till we heard
their cries. It is their custom thus to wail
and lament when a friend dies or goes to
sea. They wring their hands and tear their
hair, and make the most piteous lamenta-
tions. The Elders all left the Island except
Brother A. Hanks. He rem[-]ined to be
company for the families of the missionaries.
I expected to be very lonely, but, on the
contrary, we all enjoyed ourselves remark-
ably well.
			[To be continued.]


