R. S. REPORTS.
	DENVER, COLORADO. 
Editor Woman's Exponent:
	The members of the Relief Society of
Denver wish me to write you, to let you
know how we are getting along. 
	Our Relief Society has only a small
membership, but we endeavor to do our
duty as best we can, with our limited
means. During the past summer we have
assisted in caring for some of the poor in
this city, and we have furnished a room
complete in “The Haven,” which is a home
and industrial training school for young
girls. They come from all parts of the
State; some are orphans, and others might
better be, and some are half orphans. This
room is occupied by two girls as a bed-
room. It is furnished with a nice iron
bedstead and bedding, also chairs, wash-
stand, glass, rug,s and all things necessary
for a girl's bedroom; and we have the
privilege of placing our literature there for
them to read, and on the door we have a
nice plate with the name of our Church on
it: “Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.” 
	We have a good band of sisters here, if
they are few in number. They feel like
pressing on in the good work, and we en-
joy the EXPONENT and have articles from
it read in our meetings.
	Ever praying for the health of the
editor of the EXPONENT, Sister Wells, we 
remain,
	Yours in the cause of truth,
		EVA HALEY, Pres. 
		MARY E. WOOLLEY, Cor. Sec.
		ST. JOHNS STAKE, KANSAS. 
	Our society was organized July 8, 1899,
by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack,
and we now have seventeen members en-
rolled. 
	We have in our treasury, twenty dollars.
We have given one ice cream social, from
which we cleared five dollars and seventy
cents. We have pieced two quilts, and
quilted three; also made three comforts and
sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-
five working and testimony meetings.
Those held on the first Thursday of each
month are devoted to testimony bearing.
	Following are the minutes of our first
regular monthly meeting:
	Saint John’s Relief Society held in the
Saint’s Church, Thursday, August 3, 1899, 
at 2 o’clock p. m.  presided over by our president, Sister Lucy Brekenridge. 
	The meeting was opened by singing the


