[Column 1]
		WOMEN IN LITERATURE.
	An interesting feature of the Internation-
al Congress of Women has been the large
number of new recruits drawn from the
ranks of society.
	At St. Martin’s Town Hall on June 28,
where the subject of “Women in Liter-
ature’’ was under discussion, Lady Helen
Graham and Lady Cynthia Vincent were
cordially welcomed by members of the Con-
gress. The topic under discussion was
evidently an attractive one to a large num-
ber of delegates, as the room was well filled,
and the remarks of the various speakers
were followed with much interest.
	Mrs. Flora Annie Steele was the first to
speak on the subject. She carried a bunch
of roses that matched the chiffon bow at her
throat and the flowers in her neat round
hat. The novelist’s regret was that the
time limit would only allow of the most
primary interpretation of the subject.
Nevertheless, she made good use of the
twenty minutes allotted to her. Women
in literature, she said, was a subject which
took one back to the beginning of all 
things, and she hazarded the opinion that if
Eve had not bartered her paradise of purity
for a paradise of love, three-quarters of the
literature of the world would never have
been written.
	This novel assertion tickled the audience
immensely, and Mrs. Steele amused them
still further by declaring that it was a woman
probably who was the author of the first 
document. She most likely cut the first
notch in a stick as an aid to memory in the

[Column 2]
arduous round of domestic duties, which
was the beginning of all books.
	Passing from the lighter vein and treat-
ing her subject seriously, the speaker con-
tended that women maintained a high
average of literary merit, and that literature
was undoubtedly a successful field for wom-
en to cultivate, their great strength lying
in their feminine outlook.
	There were other papers and other speak-
ers, but the honors of the sitting rested
with Mrs. Steele, whose address was unani-
mously voted to be a masterly treatment of
the subject.
	As on the opening day, the different sec-
tions were again well patronized on June
28, thus showing that the interest in the
Congress is well sustained. Another sec-
tion which attracted a large attendance was
that which discussed rescue work. It was
under the presidency of Mrs. Benson, wid-
ow of the late archbishop, and was held in
