the Convocation Hall at the Church House.
	Lady Frederick Cavendish, in a very
earnest, but at the same time amusing ad-
dress, spoke of the work of the Church
Army among women, and explained some-
thing of the character of the class dealt
with. By way of illustration, her ladyship
quoted the case of a girl of sixteen who had
knocked her sister down. When spoken to
about it the girl’s answer was that she
“only happened to flap up against her sis-
ter, and didn’t mean nothing.”
	There was quite a number of interesting
speeches on this subject by delegates from
different countries, and it was evident that
the audience were in cordial sympathy with
movements having for their object the
rescue of the fallen.
	Another striking paper was that deliv-
ered in the Art Section by Mme. Starr Can-
zi[-]ni on the spirit of purity in art. “I do
not underrate cleverness,” she said, “when
cleverness means real power. But what
matters power and style,if the motive of the
work be unworthy or irreverent? One
thing is certain,” she declared, “though
the greater responsibility must always rest
with men who are stronger, yet neither
good nor evil can exist in the world with-
out the consent of women.”
	An attractive feature,so far,at the section-
al meetings has been the floral decorations.
The rooms have been tastefully adorned
with roses and other flowers, and the effect
has been very pretty. In this respect
Lady Battersea has been a generous con-
tributor, and Mrs. Reggie Bingham and
many other ladies have responded to the
appeal made to them, while there have
been many willing hands ready to arrange
the floral gifts to the best possible advan-
tage.
	There were two receptions on June 28th
after the work of the day was done. One
was held by Mrs. F. Beer at 7 Chesterfield
gardens, and the other was at Lady Batter-
sea’s house at Marble Arch. It was so
arranged that they did not clash as regards
time, and there was a large gathering at
each.
	Lady Battersea’s reception Tuesday eve-
ning for the delegates of the Women’s Con-
gress was numerously attended.
	The house was prettily decorated with
palms and pink and white flowers, with
large bowls of roses placed about in the
different reception rooms. Lord and Lady
Battersea received their guests at the head
of the staircase, Lady Battersea looking
handsome in gray and white brocade, with

[Column 3]
emerald and diamond stars in her hair and
on the corsage of her dress.
	Some of the pretty women present were
the Duchess of Sutherland, in pale blue
satin and pearls; Lady Randolph Church-
ill, in pale pink with some pearl orna-
ments in her hair; while Lady Ulrica Dun-
comb was looking quite lovely in pale yel-
low, with a necklace of pearls and dia-
monds. Among others there were Lady
Aberdeen, Lady Harcourt and Mrs. As-
quith.—Ex.


