[Column 1]
opportunity of meeting and of being wel-
comed by them most cordially as members 
of the Council.
	Afterwards we passed up the grand stair-
way to the drawing room and other apart-
ments opened for the reception, and passed
where the Hungarian band were discours- 
ing the most exquisite music one could
imagine, which floated thro’ these elegant 
halls, diffusing melody such as is seldom
heard except by the most highly favored of 
the world.
	There were a small number of ladies
whom we had met before, Miss Anthony,
who is always lovely and gracious to her
friends, and Mrs. Sewall, Dr. Shaw, Mrs.
Bedford Fenwick and Mrs. Fenwick Miller
(these two ladies we had been acquainted
with at the Woman’s Congress in Chicago)
and quite a number of others. Mrs. Char-
lotte Perkins Stetson, the grandniece of
Henry Ward Beecher, whom we had met
in Des Moines, Iowa, and who is certainly
one of the brightest women of this nine-
teenth century; who is always sweet and
charming, and who really seemed to take
extra pains for some of our Utah party.
Recently her book on the Economic ques-
tion is attracting world-wide attention, al-
though by many severely criticised. Mrs.
Stetson is a forcible speaker, and also a
brilliant and intellectual writer. She in-
tends visiting Salt Lake City in the near 
future.
	There is not time or space to describe
Stafford House or the wonderful paintings
and banquet, but some time we may per-
haps make separate articles of these great
palaces we have seen and where we have
been entertained.
	Lady Battersea’s reception at Surrey
House was in many respects similar to that
of Stafford House; but at Surrey we were
received by Lord and Lady Battersea, and
it is not the custom, as in America, to be
introduced and passed down a long line of
distinguished people.
	Perhaps in giving the public gatherings 
and entertainments tendered to the Council,
we ought to have mentioned first of all the
informal reception given by the Countess of
Aberdeen on Saturday afternoon, June 24,
previous to the opening of the Council.
This was a very pleasant way of having
the delegates and speakers meet each other,
and a very graceful thing on her part, to
bring the ladies into a sort of friendly inter-
course Here we met several ladies we had 
previously known, in closer proximity than 
at the great receptions afterwards, as we
were fewer in number, and as the affair
was given in the “Members’ Mansions,”
which had been engaged for Council pur-
poses. On this occasion the Countess re- 
ceived alone, and stood on her feet for
about three hours. In looking back over
the entire time of this great gathering of
women from all parts of the world, we are
of the opinion that she was more thought-
ful and more considerate in providing for 
the well-being, comfort and entertainment
of members of the Council, than anybody 
could have imagined, or even desired. If
she does not have an attack of nervous
prostration after all is over, one would be
inclined to believe she had been given
superhuman strength.
	The next great reception was at Fulham 
Palace, the residence of the Lord Bishop of
London and his intellectual and accomplished
wife, Mrs. Creighton, who was one of the 
ablest women of the International Council,
and one who was instrumental in bringing

[Column 2]
about the success of the great undertaking
which brought the women of all civilized
lands together on one platform to discuss
the greatest and most momentous questions
of the day.
	Fulham Palace is very antique in ap-
pearance, and reminds one of the past cen-
turies; it is in the very atmosphere of the
house and grounds, though it is kept in ex-
cellent repair, and there have been, doubt-
less, many changes and improvements made
from time to time, yet one feels the sacred-
ness that pertains to ancient cathedrals,
and places where holy men have lived and
served and dispensed their learned lore, or
wisdom, such as is not vouchsafed to any
except those who devote their lives to the
great divine Master. It is impossible for
the writer to put upon paper in a few words
the emotions experienced while roaming
about under the shade of the trees centuries
old, and contemplating the scenes that must
have been enacted and events that had
transpired during the years that had flown
since the house and surroundings had been
occupied by Bishops and their curates and
rectors. At some future time we hope to
devote an article to our impressions of Ful-
ham Palace.
	On Monday, July 3, the Society of
American Women in London entertained
officers and members of the Council at a
luncheon and reception. The president,
Mrs. Griffin, Mrs. De Freise and Mrs. Fay
received the guests in elegant private par-
lors at Hotel Cecil, and the stars and stripes
were specially noticable in the draping and
decorating. Delicious refreshments were
handsomely served; but more of this here-
after.
	Tuesday afternoon, July 4, a garden
party was given by Lady Rothschild and
Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild, at Gunnersbury
Park, an elegant residence and park grounds
in the suburbs of London, where every-
thing was on the grandest scale imaginable;
indeed the papers said it was the most elab-
orate affair of its kind ever given in Lon-
don, certainly beyond any description the
writer will be able to give, such places
must be seen to be appreciated. At this re-
ception there were perhaps half of the Utah
ladies present. Lady Rothschild and her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Leopold de Roths-
child, received and welcomed the guests on
their arrival, and every possible variety of
amusement had been provided in the
grounds, and refreshments were served in
the house during the entire afternoon. The
whole affair suggested wealth, luxuriance
of grandeur and beauty, and the greatest
hospitality and cordiality possible to ex-
press.
	The Countess of Warwick gave a garden
party and entertainment at her Hostel at
Reading, on the afternoon of July 5, which
was one of the most interesting occasions
we had the opportunity of participating in.
The guests spent the time in listening to
addresses in the garden, under the magnifi-
cent shade trees, by the Countess herself,
Lady Georgina Vernon and some titled
gentlemen, all upon practical subjects per-
taining to education and Reading College.
Tents were placed in near proximity where
refreshments were served, as also in the
house itself, which was very unique in all
its arrangements. After the exercises and
some social conversation, the grounds ad-
jacent were visited by the guests, and a few
of the ladies, accompanied by one of the
Professors from the College, visited the in-
stitution and went over almost the entire

[Column 3]
building. Reading College is built on the
site of an old abbey, and one part of it is
composed of the old abbey and cloisters.
	The Countess of Aberdeen, among other
social functions, gave a breakfast to all
officially connected with the Council, in
the private banqueting hall of the West-
minster Palace Hotel, and presented an ad-
dress of welcome to which one of the Ger-
man ladies responded in behalf of the
foreign delegates, and Dr. Stevenson, of
Chicago, for the United States, mentioning
especially that it was the 4th of July, In-
dependence day. Lord Aberdeen also had
a few words to say. Lady Marjorie Gor-
don assisted her mother at the breakfast,
which was a successful social function.
	The Countess also gave a Farewell, re-
ception at the Royal Institute of Water Col-
ors at the close of the session of the Coun-
cil. After issuing a thousand invitations,
some two or three hundred more were sent out,
it was a most eleborate entertainment. Lady
Marjorie assisted her mother in receiving,
and no one could doubt their desire to make
all happy, when they could stand an entire
evening and welcome each of the hundreds
of guests personally. The refreshments
were delicious, and served after the most
hospitable fashion. The water colors,
though of the finest one could imagine,
were lost sight of by many who preferred
living beauty in artistic costume. Really
the portraits on the walls, and the living
pictures that were moving about hither and
thither, flitting from room to room, were
brought into a sort of rivalry by the art
loving connoisseurs. The Countess spared
no pains or sacrifice to make every one hap-
py; she really gave herself for the time
being to the Council without limitation.
The women of the world are greatly in-
debted to the self-sacrifice of this philan-
thropic, heroice gentlewoman, who, with-
out display of ceremony, but with the true
instinct of royalty, devoted her valuable
time and magnificent talents to those who
came from afar, and like the Queen of Sheba
we can say, “the half had not been told.”
	The visit to Windsor Castle was entirely
due to her tact, influence and thoughtful-
ness. This visit has been described
by so many, that one scarcely feels to go
into detail; but Her Majesty, Queen Vic-
toria, cannot have too much said in her
praise as a woman, a mother and a sover-
eign of a great empire. It was most
gracious and lovely of the Queen of a great
realm on which the sun never sets, to favor
the delegation of the International Council
with Her Majesty’s presence in person, and
the ladies manifested their appreciation in
smiles and bows and waving their handker-
chiefs and singing in chorus, “God Save
the Queen.”
	The tea afterwards in St. George’s Hall,
where every appointment of the table was
significant of royalty, might well have been
called a banquet, so elaborate were the
preparations and so elegant the service.
	It was a fitting close to the great Inter-
national gathering of women of all lands,
that they should pay their respects to Her
Majesty, who in her life, public and pri-
vate, has been the embodiment of the high-
est and noblest qualities of true woman-
hood, a fitting example to the race. Dur-
ing the reign of this wonderful Queen much
has been done in forwarding the cause of
woman along various lines of learning, art
and science, and several special orders have
been introduced for the distinction of illus-
trious ladies. The profession of nursing


has been established on a permanent basis,
and great good has been the result of the
Queen’s sanction and assistance. Many
gateways have been opened whereby gentle
women (who have not fortunes at their
disposal) can obtain independent liveli-
hoods; altogether Her Majesty has proved
her desire to promote the best interests for
the happiest advance in the position of
women in the Victorian era.
	At a subsequent time we will mention
other receptions we had the privilege of
attending and some of the celebrated peo-
ple to whom we were introduced, also our
visits to Paris and Versailles, in France;
Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester and
Nottingham, Warwick, Kenilworth, Leam-
ington and Cambridge, Stratford on Avon
and other notable places in England; and
Edinboro and Glasgow in Scotland.
	We have been asked many times both in
England and since our return to America,
what the outcome of this great Congress of
women from all lands will be, or what
great achievements will be the ultimate re-
sults? It is almost too soon to estimate
the gains that may accrue, but it is only
reasonable to suppose that a better under-
standing of the conditions of women in all
parts of the world, and, therefore, greater
success for any common or special cause.
That greater love and charity will prevail
among womankind cannot be doubted,
when such a fraternal feeling is fostered
and cherished as that which prevailed so
largely during the entire sessions of the
Council and Congress. Ultimately a great
federation of the sisterhood of the world
will come to pass by means of the processes
now at work, and that will mean for all
the world a higher type of civilization.


