[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
		[Continued.]
	Mr. T. Whittaker, an intelligent Eng
lishman, was living on the Island with a
Tahitian wife, a good, kind woman, but
resembling him as little as a bear resembles
a sheep. He removed with her to Tahiti,
where he zealously engaged in preaching
the Gospel. He is an excellent man, full
of faith and good works, and fine looking.
In his own country he might have married
a woman of culture and refinement; but his
lot was cast here, and it seems to be the
custom with white men who come here
from different nations to intermarry with
the people, leaving their wives when they
return to their respective countries, some-
times taking their children home to be edu-
cated.
	To my children it seemed cruel that after
performing such a long and tedious journey
they were not permitted to meet their fath-
er. Towards the last of January Capt.
Johnson’s schooner was descried in the dis-
tance, coming from Tahiti. The pilot went
off to it, and returned with the joyful in-
telligence that “Paraita” was on board.
Great was the excitement! we were afraid
to believe it. King Tomatoa sent for us to
come to the beach and look through his spy-
glass and view the vessel and the pas-
sengers. We did so, and beheld the long
expected man walking the deck. He had
grown very fleshy, looked surprisingly
large. The news flew like lightning over
the village, and the whole population as-
sembled at the landing to greet and wel-
come their old friend and missionary. He
had been three years absent from them, and
great were their declamations of joy on
seeing him return to their Island. Not-
withstanding their eagerness to grasp his
hand, as they crowded to the water’s edge,
they parted to make an opening for his
wife and children to salute him first, show-
ing more consideration than many persons
would in more civilized life. It was a great
day for us all. He brought with him a bushel
of Tahitian oranges, the sweetest in the
world; likewise a quantity of Vii apples of
peculiarly delicious flavor, a fruit we had
never seen before. The natives hastened
to make a feast, and a great one it was, for
the vast amount of food that was cooked.
Brother Busby had left the preceding day
for Tahiti. I had contemplated going on
the same vessel, had I not received an im-
pression that it was not right to go. I
should have passed my husband on the
way, and been left on Tahiti an uncertain
length of time.
	As soon as the accustomed ceremonies
were over, the building of a schooner was
commenced at Mahu, on the opposite side
of the Island. The material was taken
from San Francisco to build the cabin. Mr.
Grouard was competent to construct the
vessel from the keel to the topmast, and
Mr. Pratt could make the sails. The vessel
was to be of eighty tons burthen, with
welve double berths in the cabin, a centre

[Column 2]
table, transom and library. This was for
the benefit of the mission. It was built of 
tamara wood, (Island mahogany) timber of
the most enduring kind. The native men
saw their lumber with pit saws; they make
beautiful chests of their mahogany, also 
bedsteads and lounges of timber resembling
black walnut. The name of this wood is
mikii.
	Every day found me at the old “Fere
bare ra” (prayer house) teaching the native
children, in their own language, to read and
write; my own and the half-breeds in Eng-
lish. The remainder of the time I devoted
to my journal and letter writing, together
with studying and translating the Hawaiian
language. The whole time was entirely
occupied. Mrs. Tompkins and her two
little daughters I taught regularly. Her
education had been sadly neglected in early
life, but she seemed ambitious and deter-
mined to conquer the first rudiments, and
learn to read and write. She has good
natural talents. What a misfortune to be
neglected in childhood! Mr. Tompkins, 
though a little better educated, is not her
superior in judgment. He is very hospit-
able, but requires those who share his liber-
ality to feel their obligations; thus caus-
ing his benevolence to lose half its value.
Time passed on, and we had little to
complain of but fleas and mosquitoes; they
were terribly annoying! They have their
seasons. In winter (July and August) the
fleas are innumerable. In summer (Decem-
ber and January) mosquitoes take the place
by storm. No venomous reptiles. One
only, called the santipee, whose sting is
like that of a bee. Soft mud will extract
the poison. The work on the schooner
still progressed, the white men and natives
all working with a will. Occasionally a
company of us went across the mountains
to visit them at their work. Though dis-
tant five miles it was a delightful walk, the
road nearly the whole way being shaded by
beautiful trees, some bearing delicious fruit,
which we partook of as we sat down to
rest.
	About the middle of May, ’51, we were
all invited over to witness the launching of
the new schooner. Mr. Whittaker had just
completed a new sail boat; in that we set
sail about sundown. The moon was at its
full, and shining in all its loveliness. The
sea was calm, we had a delightful ride on
the water. Our friends were waiting our
arrival, had a blazing fire lightening through
the timbers: a most romantic sight. There
were ten females, old and young, in the
boat. Our native friends came out to meet
us on the reefs, and carried us in their arms
to dry land. The singers had long been
practicing new tunes to sing on the grand
occasion. The vessel had to be drawn a
considerable distance by hand; it would re-
quire all the strength the island afforded.
Those who were not members of the Church
protested they would not lend their aid un-
less the king would grant them a dance.
Permission was given, great preparations
were made and untiring skill exercised
to invent ornaments. They were engaged
in making native cloth from the bark of the


