[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened July 22, 1899, in the 14th ward hall,
with Counselor Elizabeth Webb presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “All is well.”
Prayer by Sister Sarah J. Cannon. Con-
tinued by singing, “Who are these arrayed
in white.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and approved.
	President Horne came in; said she
was necessarily late. She always liked to
be present at the opening, as all feel better
when they are present to take part in the
singing and prayer. Said she believed that
the Lord would help any one who would
make an effort to do her duty. There is no
progression unless we make an effort to do
what is required of us. We only stay here
a short time in this preparatory state, and
we receive blessings for what we ac-
complish. Said our work in the Relief
Society is more to the poor Saints, but we
never refuse to do good wherever we can.
It is our duty to know ourselves and teach
our children to know there is a God, and to
serve Him. Spoke of the simplicity of the
Gospel, and how easily it was understood.
Said she thought we all had cause to be
thankful to God for His goodness to us.
	Sister Emily Stevenson felt to rejoice in
the Gospel. She knew if we kept the com-
mandments of God, we would be saved in
His kingdom.
	Sister Mair said that a great many do
not know that this is the church of God,
but it is our duty to explain it to others.
	Sister Wilcox bore testimony that she
knew this was the truth, and she greatly
rejoiced in it.
	Sister Louie Stevenson said: “We are
sent upon the earth on missions, and it is
our duty to bear testimony to all with
whom we come in contact, if they ask for
such.”
	Sister Butterworth felt thankful that she
was one of the workers in this Church.
She had been a busy bee in the “Hive of
Deseret” for forty-five years. Spoke of the
duties of Latter-day Saints. Said: “We have
got the children of the earth to teach the
Gospel to, ourselves to save, our families to
raise and teach them correct principles, and
it behooves us to be very humble and
prayerful.” Testified that there are blessings
attached to the observance of the law of
tithing.
	The congregation sang, “The Spirit of
God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Peterson knew that Joseph Smith
was a prophet of God, and she was pleased
to be numbered among the Saints.

[Column 2]
	Sister Sarah Bateman said she did not
wish to go away without bearing her testi-
mony. She always thanked the Lord that
she was permitted to mingle with the
Latter-day Saints and work in the Temple.
	Sister Smelie said she thanked the Lord
every day that she was brought into these
mountains—this home of refuge. Said the
Gospel was everything to her.
	Sister Peterson believed if we were faith-
ful and asked our Heavenly Father for
what we wanted, He would grant us all
that is for our good.
	A young sister in the congregation said
she was thankful she was born and raised a
Latter-day Saint, and that she was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society.
	Another sister said we should teach our
children true principles, and be prayerful,
that we may teach them to be Saints.
	Sister Pixton said if we do not put our
testimonies to a good use, God will not be
pleased. She wondered how many would
be ready if the call should come for us to go
out to meet the Bridegroom. It had been
taught to us to be prepared ever since the
days of Nauvoo. Spoke of the sorrow it is
to see our children marry outsiders and go
astray, as so many are doing at the present
time. Spoke of the necessity of doing the
work for the dead, and not idling our time
away.
	Sister Neal was glad to meet with the
sisters and receive the instructions she did
here. Said she was one of the members
when this society was first organized. Spoke
of the many testimonies God gives to His
daughters as well as His sons.
	Another sister bore testimony of the
truth of the work, and spoke of the duties
of those who wish to do work in the Temple.
	Sister Harriet A. Badger said she rejoiced
to be here and meet with these sisters. Felt
we had a great deal to do in a short time.
Knew we must learn to be kind to each
other and love each other.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said she wondered
if we realized the value of testimony. She
thought it necessary that we should all be
witnesses to this great work. How thank-
ful the Prophet Joseph felt, and how he
was braced up when he had the three wit-
nesses to support him! Thought it neces-
sary for each to bear a testimony of the
Prophet Joseph to her children.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Bene-
diction by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
