[Column 1]
HOME AGAIN. 
	After a rather prolonged trip abroad for a
busy woman, here we are at the desk again,
everything just as if we had only been
absent a few hours. It is very pleasant to
return home and find one’s family all in
good health, and, in the case of the writer,
to find an addition of a fine pair of twin
boys to the numerous grandchildren, was a
very happy surprise on reaching New York.
A marriage in the family, too, was one of
the surprises to greet our arrival, and alto-
gether only joyful news and occurrences to
greet one and cheer the home-coming.
	To recount the happenings, and even the
principal events of a journey of nearly
three months, is a puzzle; but to one attend-
ing such meetings as the International
Council and Congress of Women in Lon-
don, the official receptions and parties, and
trips here and there, it is utterly impossible
to satisfy one’s self in the least degree.
However, to be able to report good health
and no accidents by land or sea, is in itself
something to rejoice over and to be exceed-
ingly thankful for.
	There were a number of Utah women in
England, all of whom had reached there at
an earlier date than the writer. Some of
them had gone to labor as missionaries,
some on business or pleasure, and others to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress. These were Mrs. Susa Young
Gates, Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Mrs. Eliza-
beth C. McCune, Mrs. M, A. Caine, Mrs.
C. S. Thomas, Miss C. Holbrook and Mrs. L.
D. Alder; the last named has also remained
to do missionary work. The entire journey,
from leaving Salt Lake until the return
home, has been full of interesting occasions
and rich in all that helps to make one’s
time pass happily and “fly, as it were, on
the wings of the wind.”
	At the opening of the Quinquennial on
the afternoon of Monday, June 26, it was
found that the Large Hall, Westminster
Town Hall, would not hold those entitled

[Column 2]
to be present, therefore the crowd was in-
structed to wend its way to Convocation
Hall, Church House, Deanery, Westmins-
ter Abbey, and the International Council
was formally opened in that historic build-
ing  by the Countess of Aberdeen with an
address of welcome, which we hope to pub-
lish in full at some future time. It was a
very able paper, and seemingly touched
upon every subject pertaining to the work
of the Council in the past and suggestions
for future advancement.
	After the address came the introduction
of International officers and the Presidents
of Federated National Councils, which in-
cluded many foreign countries: The United
States, by Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaff-
ney, of New York; Canada, Mrs. Boomer;
Germany, Frau Anna Simson; Sweden,
Fru Hierta Retzius; Great Britain and Ire-
land, The Lady Battersea; New South
Wales, The Viscountess Hampden; Den-
mark, Froken Henrie Forschammer; Hol-
land, Madame Klerck von Hogendorp;
New Zealand, Mrs. Pember Reeves.
	Other countries who have signified the
intention of federating with the Inter-
national Council were represented by fra-
ternal delegates, but had no vote. The
only voters (proper) were the officers of the
International Council and Presidents of
National Councils already federated; not
even delegates duly elected had votes.
The countries thus represented were France,
Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, Russia, Aus-
tria, Norway, Victoria, South Australia,
West Australia, Queensland, Cape Colony,
Tasmania, India, Persia, Argentine Re-
public of South America, China and Pales-
tine. Delegates from societies internation-
ally organized (present, but without a vote)
Bureau International Permanent de la Paix;
Federation Abolitioniste Ginirole; Union
Internationale des Ames des Jennes Filles;
World’s Women’s Christian Temperance
Union; World’s Young Women’s Christian
Association; International Union of Press
Clubs; International Order of King’s
Daughters.
	Each person introduced had about five
minutes in which to speak for the country
and Council she represented. This occu-
pied the entire meeting of the afternoon.
The day was very hot and the hall was
crowded. Many distinguished people were
present, both in the seats below and the
front seats in the galleries above. Madame
Von Finklestein Mountford represented the
country of Palestine, where there are as yet
really no organizations of women, but
where it is hoped such like institutions may
soon be established, and also in India,
China and Persia.
	The official reception of the Duchess of
Sutherland at Stafford House was held the
same evening, Monday, June 26, from 9 p.
m. to 12, and was certainly in every par-
ticular a royal entertainment. The house
is one of the richest in architecture and in
all its appointments of finishings and furn-
ishings, which are indescribable. The en-
trance hall is famous throughout England
and is of solid white marble with marble
staircases on either side that cross the upper
hall and are finished with elaborate brass
balustrades. Seated on the wide staircase
at the top of the front opening to the gal-
lery on either side, were four of the most
beautiful women of rank and title. First,
the Countess of Aberdeen; next her, the
Duchess of Sutherland, and farther on to
the right, the Countess of Warwick and her
sister. All these grand ladies we had the


