A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION
	A social gathering of friends, children
and grandchildren met at the residence of
Sister Lucinda Brown, in honor of her
seventy-fourth birthday.
	After partaking of a most delicious din-
ner, and thanking our Father in heaven for
the same, an impromptu program was
rendered. President Willis E. Robison
kindly consented to take charge of the
guests.
	After an appropriate selection from
the hymn book had been sung by all,
Patriarch E. H. Blackburn spoke very
commendably in behalf of our beloved sis-
ter. In his remarks he said that if he had
his hands upon the head of Sister Brown,
he felt he could say she was accepted of the
Lord.
	Presidents H. M. Hanson and G. S. Bas-
tian dwelt upon the excellent traits of
character Sister Brown must have pos-
sessed to train and raise her children in the
fear of God without a husband’s assistance.
She was always ready and willing to com-
fort those who were despondent and sad,
and was a friend in very deed to all.
	“O my Father, Thou that dwellest”
was played upon the mandolin and guitar
by Miss Ella Hunt and Mr. Bennie Robison.
	Counselors Nancy Blackburn and Eliza-
beth C. Jeffrey, of the Relief Society,
spoke words of encouragement, and praised
Sister Brown for her true integrity.
	Beautiful and appropriate music was
rendered by her children, Bishop Brown
and wife and Mrs. Sheffield.
	President Robison thought reunions of
this nature promoted a feeling of love to
draw us together and to elevate and broad-
en our views in our sphere of usefulness.
He was pleased to be associated with a wom-
an like Sister Brown, who had fearlessly
stood in defence of the principles of truth,
taught her family the Gospel in its purity
and gone through many trials to serve the
Lord; and during the past twenty-five
years he knew she had sought the best
society, and was proud to have her for a
friend. Felt that her actions would meet
the reward of again being associated with
her husband, who has been dead for many
years.
	Sister Robison thanked all for the
great honor shown her; felt it was more
than she was worthy of. Asked God to
bless all those present; that they might do
good on the earth.
	President Robison read the following
verses:
Dear husband, my soul shall treasure thy request
And when the night of fever and unrest
Melts in the morning of Eternity,
Like a freed bird then  I will come to thee.


I will come to thee in the morning sweet!
I have been true and soul with soul shall meet
Before God’s throne, and shall not be afraid;
Thou gav’st me trust, and it was not betrayed.

I will come to thee in the morning dear!
The night is dark, I do not know how near
The morning may be of that eternal day;
I can but keep my faithful watch, and pray.

I will come to thee in the morning love!
Wait for me on the eternal heights above;
The way is troubled where my feet must climb
Ere I shall reach the mountain top sublime.

I will come in the morning, O, my own!
But for a time must grope my way alone,
Through tears and sorrow, till the day shall dawn
And I shall hear the summons and pass on.

I will come in the morning, rest secure!
My hope is certain and my faith is sure;
After the gloom and darkness of the night
I will come to thee in the morning light.”

	After singing “When shall we all meet
again,” and prayer by Counselor Jacob
Bastian, all returned home, feeling the day
had been well spent.
