RAISING MULBERRY TREES.
AN EXCELLENT REPORT FROM WAYNE CO.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	Thinking it might interest you and our
beloved president, Zina D. H. Young, to
know of our success in planting mulberry
trees and cuttings this last spring, and as
myself and counselors have recently visited
the southeast part of our Stake, I will tell
you of our beginning in the good work.
	Torrey Relief Society owns a city lot of
an acre and a quarter, and they have
planted seventy, three-year old trees from the
Salt Lake nursery, and about one thousand
yearling trees and cuttings.
	Caineville Relief Society has a city lot.
They planted out fifty, three-year old trees,
and four hundred yearlings and cuttings.
	Giles Relief Society also owns a lot, which
is not yet fenced. Brother White has planted
out on his own premises, one thousand cut-
tings and four hundred yearling trees for
the Relief Society, when the sisters get
their city lot fenced. He has twenty large
mulberry trees, ten years old, around his
home. I asked Sister White, who is presi-
dent of the Giles Relief Society, to make a
start next spring to feed silk worms. She said
she would give it a trial. We also distribu-
ted over one hundred yearling trees to
some friends in that part, which are all
growing nicely.
	Our efforts have been blessed in this
direction. Most of the trees planted have
grown and made good progress. We intend
to double our efforts next spring in plant-
ing out mulberry trees. We advised
some of the sisters to plant half an acre or
more on their own homesteads, and told
them that in time it would be a profitable
investment; besides it was an obligation
placed upon the sisters to make a success of
this enterprise. We have offered to furnish
young trees to those who cannot buy and
who will care for them, that we may get
this industry started.
	We had a very pleasant time holding
meetings, talking up this subject and get-
ting the brethren and sisters interested in
our labors. The Bishops attended our
meetings, and felt to extend a helping
hand. They all expressed their apprecia-
tion of the labors of the Relief Society, which
is encouraging, for we like to have the appro-
bation of our brethren.
			Yours respectfully,
