MISS MATTIE PAUL HUGHES, M.D.
				------
	We publish below a notice from the Marine
City Reporter, Michigan, of a very delicate op-
eration performed by the young lady whose
name we give here, a girl well known and
highly esteemed in Utah. We rejoice in the
success she has achieved in the honorable pro-
fession she has chosen. Considering Miss
Mattie was so long a typo for the EXPONENT,
it is not remarkable that we should feel very
proud of her attainments. She is all the more
entitled to admiration, than she has by persev-
erance, industry and self-denial made her
own way in the face of difficulty, although she
has had many friends here, who have encour-
aged her and helped her forward and has gained
many among those with whom she has been
associated while absent.
	Utah has now quite a number of lady physici-
ans, who are practising very successfully among
the people. Strangers visiting here are quite
surprised when we tell them, that we have
graduated lady doctors, as they have been in-
formed previously we were all kept in ignorance
as regarded any of the higher walks of educa-
tion.  
	"A very skillful surgical operation pertain-
ing to vesico-vaginal festula was performed in
Algonac, on Wednesday, by Miss Mattie P.
Hughes, M.D., with the assistance of Drs.
Moore, of Algonac, and W.H. Smith, of St.
Clair. Dr. Slocum had been invited to take
part in the operation, but declined to play
"second fiddle" to a woman, nevertheless, neither
Dr. Moore, who is a graduate of McGill College,
Montreal, nor Dr. Smith, who ranked at the
head of his class when in Michigan University,
and who has since not only been an unusually
successful practitioner, but has received the
commendation of the scientific press and schol-
ars of the Old World for his writings, felt that
they were compromising their dignity by assist-
ing a lady in a very difficult operation upon one
of her own sex. Especially is this true, when the
lady in question is such a genial and accom-
plished woman as Miss Hughes, who not only
graduated from the Medical Department Mich-
igan University with a reputation for superior
scholarship but is possessed of a courage and
self-reliance, an obliging disposition and a lady
like deportment which at once commend her
to general favor. In the above case this young
lady physician took the principal part in the
work, and thus demonstrated by actual experi-
ence that some of her sex at least are capable
of performing the most difficult and complicated
operations in medical practice.


THIS year 612 female artists were represented
at the Paris Salon. One hundred and ninety-
eight exhibited pictures, 365 water-colors,
drawings, or faiences, and forty-nine sculptures.
Eight were among the medaled or Ihonorably
mentioned.


