		BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE. 

	The fortitude of the Pilgrim Fathers has been
praised for the last 250 years, and the daring
deeds of the heroes of the revolution have been
extolled ever since the great event of July 4th,
1776. But who has descanted on the virtues
and fortitude of the Pilgrim Mothers, and on
the moral courage of the heroines of the Am-
erican revolution. While the hearts of the
fathers and sons, in the struggle for the free-
dom of our country, were fired with the wrongs
they had received and they stood forth in bat-
tle array determined that it should be liberty or
death; where were the wives and mothers?
Were they not actuated by the same spirit?
Was not the yearning for liberty as strong in
their breasts as in those of the fathers and sons!
When the cry rang through the land, To Arms!
To Arms! Did they not like the Spartan
mothers with cheerful face though bleeding
heart commend them to the gods?
	Hark! to the distant roar of the cannon
the enemy is in the distance. The streets are
lined with the heroes of 76. The beating of
the drums and the clarion notes of the bugle
call them to action.
	The prancing of the horses and the bright
uniforms of the leaders, fires the hearts and
sends the warm blood thrilling through the
veins of the husbands and sons, and in the excite-
ment of the times, they think not of the danger
that awaits them. But, in times of danger,
woman's heart takes in the whole. While she
in part partakes of the same patriotic spirit
her racked brain conjures up untold miseries
for the dear ones, soon to pass from sight.
Look! at that wife with babe in arms and the
little ones around her. Note the pale face,
the tear in the eye, the anguish of that swelling
bosom as she bids God speed to the husband of
her youth, and father of her children. See!
the clinging embrace of that mother as she
clasps her only son to her breast, perhaps for
the last time. Picture to yourself the heart
sickening anxieties of the wives and mothers
in that long and dreary winter, when their
husbands and sons were suffering the greatest
privations at Valley Forge. When even the
frozen ground was marked with the bloody
foot prints of the dear ones. O, the watching
and waiting the sleepless nights and shadowy
days, the torture of that long dream of suspense
none but a woman's heart can feel. Think of
all the scenes, and tell me if the wives and
mothers were not as patriotic and self-sacrific-
ing as the fathers and sons. True they gave
not their blood on the battle field; but they
gave what is far more dear to a woman's heart—
their husbands and sons.
	With joy we hail the birth-day of our beloved
country and while we are partaking of the rich

[Column 2]
benefits derived from the glorious triumph
gained by the fathers of our country, let us not
forget the mothers.
	With joy we honor and reverence the mem-
ory of the heroes of 76. May their noble deeds
never be forgotten. And thrice blessed be the
memory of the heroines for like the widow
whom the Savior extolled, they gave their all.


