WISDOM.

	Wisdom is what we should all have; it is very
needful and desirous and folks cannot aspire
in this world to what they could without it, and
I think the Lord is anxious, we should learn
all that we possibly can in order to serve him
more acceptably. But there are people good,
honest, honorable folks who know but very
little and do not seem to appreciate intelli-
gence. Their childhood has perhaps been neg-
lected by their parents, and now that they have
grown to manhood or grown to be women, they
have to work hard for their daily bread and
perhaps have families that need their attention
and care. Do you think that the Lord has
forgotten them? No! He thinks just as much of
them as He does of the learned. It is not edu-
cation alone that makes the man or woman; it
all depends upon the use it is put to. Now for
instance there are some who you might say are
all education; I know some of that class my-
self; all they can do is to be waited upon and
lounge around and talk; oh yes, they talk very
nice, but they would not work a day to save
one's life. Such milk and water folks I think
are a very great distance from our Heavenly
Father's ideas of intelligence, a much greater
distance than those who know less, that are
honest, industrious, earnest and true. Though
some folks intimate that not to have much ed-
ucation is an unpardonable crime. I think
folks that are so silly as to talk so, had better
think a little longer before they speak. There
is no excuse for children to go unschooled now
a days, they can be educated now, and it is
a most excellent thing. I am sure thirty years
ago when we first came here it was very differ-
ent, we had to work hard to raise something to
eat, and get comfortable homes. It is a good
thing to have sound sense, industry and honesty
for a foundation for a good education, or else
your time and money will be wasted; and you
will come out in the end worse off than those
that have the foundation but have not the learn-
ing, but would have improved the advantages for
education if they had the chance; some will be
like the butterflies, make a gaudy show for a


short time and then pass away without having
anything left as a token of remembrance.
God gives wisdom and knowledge to all who
are honest in heart; and at the judgment day
those who are termed by some aspiring people
low and ignorant will arise and shine.
							   C.S.G.


