THE MANTI ROCKS.

	Many years ago a large number of beautiful
ornaments were made from a rock that is found
at Gibraltar; it was marked in the prettiest
stripes of all sorts of colors, and as no mineral
had been found like it, it received the name of
"Gibraltar Rock." It is a very compact and
easily worked substance, and thousands of or-
naments and trinkets were made of it, which
were sold very cheap. The mineral is Calcite,
a lime rock, and is technically called Aragonite,
its mottled figures and bandings being caused
by the infiltration of water containing coloring
matter, while the rock was forming.


Now, there is a formation almost exactly like
this “Gibraltar Rock, found at Manti, in San-
pete County; and there are other beautiful
rocks found in many of our canons and caves.
Suppose that our youth were to employ their
time in collecting them, and even in manu-
facturing them into useful articles, such as
ink-stands, watch-stands, paper weights, trink-
ets and other fancy goods, they would sell, and
a branch of business could be opened up that
would be remunerative after a time. Such
kind of light wares and fancy articles are made
in many of the old cities, and thousands of
people are supported by such industries.
	"What can I buy here of Utah make?" This
is the constant inquiry of the strangers who
visit our city. These people want little things
to take with them as mementoes of the place,
just as when toursits go to the cities that are
famous in other places. Why, there is no city
better known than that of Salt Lake; "Can't
we get some fancy things as a present from
Salt Lake?" asked a party of ladies.
	Yes, ladies, there are some pieces of granite
from the Temple we are building here. These
were taken, but had a very little labor been
expended upon them they would have sold
readily, and the tourists would have been bet-
ter pleased.
	Who would believe it? fancy goods made of
gypsum in England; pretty rocks from Lake
Superior; paper-weights made of "California
Marble," are sold in this city to strangers. And
the prettiest minerals, some of the most skilful
artizans in the world!		AVONDALE.


