		OF HIS FATHERS.

	MRS. E. B. WELLS:—Will you please copy into the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the following poem from the pen
of Wm. Cullen Bryant.
	When in St. George I promised a copy to some of my
friends in that place, and feel assured that its re-publica-
tion would be a gratification to many.		E. R. S. S. 

	"It is the spot I came to seek—
	My father's acnient burial-place,
	Ere from these vales, ashamed and weak,
	Withdrew our wasted race.
	It is the spot I know it well—
	Of which our old traditions tell

	"For here the upland bank sends but
	A ridge toward the river-side;
	I know the shaggy hills about,
	The meadows smooth and wide,
	The plain, that, toward the southern sky
	Fenced east and west by mountains lie

	"A white man gazing on the scene,
	Would say a lovely spot was here,
	And praise the lawns, so fresh and green,
	Between the hills so sheer.
	I like it not, I would the plain
	Lay in its tall old groves again.

	"The sheep are on the slopes around,
	The cattle in the meadows feed,
	And laborers turn the crambling ground,
	Or drop the yellow seed,
	And prancing steeds in trappings gay,
	Whirl the bright chariot o'er the way.

	"Methinks it were a nobler sight.
	To see these vales in woods arrayed,
	Their summits in the golden light
	Their trunks in grateful shade,
	And herds of deer that boundless go
	O'er hills and prostrate trees below.

	"And then to mark the lord of all,
	The forest hero trained to wars,
	Quivered and plumed, and lithe and tall,
	And scamed with glorious scars,
	Walk forth, amid his reign to dare
	The wolf, and grapple with the bear.

	"This bank in which the dead are laid,
	Was sacred when its soil was ours;
	Hither the silent Indian maid
	Brought wreaths of beads and flowers,
	And the gray chief and gifted seer
	Worshiped the God of thunders here.

	"But now the wheat is grown and high
	On clods that hid the warrior's breast,
	And scattered in the furrows lie
	The weapons of his rest,
	And there, in the loose award is thrown
	Of his large arm the mouldering bone.

	Ah, little thought the strong and brave
	Who bore their lifeless chieftain forth—
	Or the young wife that weeping gave
	Her first-born to the earth,
	That the pale race who waste us now,
	Among their bones should guide the plough.

	"They wast us—ay—like April snow
	In the warm noon, we shrink away
	And fast they follow as we go
	Toward the setting day—
	Till they shall fill the land, and we
	Are driven into the Western sea.

	"But I behold a fearful sign,
	To which the white man's eyes are blind;
	Their race may vanish hence, like mine,
	And leave no trace behind,
	Save ruins o'er the regions spread,
	And the white stones above the dead!

	"Before these fields were shorn and tilled,
	Full to the brim our rivers flowed;

[Column 2]
	The melody of waters filled
	The fresh and boundless wood:
	And torrents dashed and rivulets played, 
	And fountains spouted in the shade.

	"Those grateful sounds are heard no more, 
	The springs are silent in the sun;
	The rivers by the blackened shore, 
	With lessening current run;
	The realm our tribes are crushed to get
	May be a barren desert yet."


[Column 1]
THE PILGRIM MOTHERS AND HER-
