COMPOSED FOR THE OCCASION BY MISS E. B. SNOW.

Great Source of Good- our Father God-
God of Eternity,
Who spread creation's form abroad- 
All praise is due to Thee.

This day in vast assembly met,
All hearts, as one, should raise
In grateful strains, to celebrate
Thy love, and sing Thy praise.

We know Thy voice- we own Thy hand,
We recognize Thy power:
Thy finger pointed to this land,
In persecution's hour.

Thy wisdom, man's unerring guide,
His bark of life to steer-
Thy people's trust, whate'er betide-
Thy wisom led us here.

Thy blessing crown'd our earnest toil,
And made the desert bloom;
And drew the products from the soil,
In this, our mountain home.

To Thee, the highest notes we'll raise- 
The noblest tribute pay-
To Thee devote the sweetest lays,
On this illustr'ous day.

 The Fair, opened by the ladies in Salt Lake
City lasted until the 2d. of September when
Sister Eliza expressed in a Valedictory the
result of the efforts and appreciation. 
 The following paragraph quoted here will
give the reader some idea of the labor.
 "The interest manifested by those who have
visited the Fair has been very gratifying, and
constitutes the most desirable present success.
We have taken pride in exhibiting from day 
to day the beautiful articles of taste and utility
(many of them produced entirely from the ele-
ments of Utah,) manufactured by the skill and
industry of the people of our Territory, and
humbly trust that our united efforts in our
Centennial Exhibition will prove instrunental
in stimulating to greater energies and be pro-
ductive of much good in encouraging home-
industries."
 To promote the growth and establishment of
home-industries among the people, President
Young called a meeting of the Sisters to be
held Oct. 4th, in the Council House, to make
some arrangements to establish a woman's store
for promoting the sale of home manufactures.
The meeting was so large that it was adjourned
to the Old Tabernacle.  Pres. Young not be-
ing able to attend he addressed to the sisters
a letter which was read and commented upon
by his private secretary, 'Elder George Rynolds.
At that meeting an organization was formed by 
electing Eliza R. Snow, President, also a Vice
President, Secretary, Treasurer and four direc-
tors constituting, a complete board of officers
and the organization was called "The Relief
Society Woman's Cooperative Assocation."
			To be continued.


You. cannot sin without sacrifice.-Buxton.

If there is any great or good thing in store
for you; it will not come at the first or second
call.—Emerson.


