BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The second winter after my father left us
we were once more in the enjoyment of health
William and I attended school taught in a
room belonging to Brother Winchester by Jus-
tin Johnson brother to Mrs. Marinda Hyde,
who was living in our neighborhood. The
next summer William went to live with an old
friend Dr. F. G. William's, in Upper Com-
merce and by this means was able to clothe
himself and help mother. While living there
a circus came through and he knowing that I
had never seen one came up to take me with
him, but found me very sick, as I had been
again attacked with chills and fever and was so
delirious that I knew nothing about his coming.
I mention this circumstance to show how long
a time we were afflicted with this disease, after
a short recovery we would be again taken with
a relapse. Those who were strong enough wore
it out in time, but many died because they were
previously worn out and had not sufficient
vitality to battle with this and other diseases
brought on by suffering and privation and they
died martyrs to the truth.
	In the mean time the Apostles were perform-
ing a mighty work in Europe and many of the
Saints had come to Zion with songs of rejoicing
bringing welcome messages from the absent
ones, as well as many little gifts presented them
by the Saints in England. This seemed to les-
sen the distance between us and to make the
weeks and months pass more swiftly and our
bodily afflictions were less tedious to bear.
Brother William Clayton and his wife's family,
the Moons, were among them and also Thomas
	Walmesly and wife and many more who came
over were among my father's first converts.
They had powerful testimonies to bear, one of
them I will mention.
	When my father first visited Mr. Walmesly
he found his wife sick of consumption, and had
been for several years and was reduced to a
mere skeleton; and was given up to die, by the
doctors. My father after preaching the Gospel
to her, promised her in the name of the Lord
Jesus Christ if she would believe, repent and
be baptized, she should be healed. She was
carried to the water and after her baptism she
began to mend, and at her confirmation she
was blest, and her disease rebuked, when she
immediately recovered and in less than one
week she was attending to her household duties,
I have heard her bear testimony to this miracle
many times. They are now living in Bear
Lake Valley, Oneida Co. Idaho. When they
came to Nauvoo they found us sick and they
administered to our comfort. Among those
who came over were "well to do" people, and
they had assisted some of the poor Saints to
Zion. The majority of them were of the poor
and meek of the earth but none the less to
show their love they desired to give some little
token, if it was but a toy, and would insist
upon the brethren taking them to the children.
All who knew my father heard him speak of
his little girl, and many and various were the
things sent me, numerous handkerchiefs were
among them, which generally had Queen Vic.,
as she was commonly called, and Prince Albert
printed on them; her Majesty having lately
been crowned Queen of Great Britain.
	I also received a variety of pretty little china
dishes and a box of wooden ones as well as china
dolls; but during the time my father was absent
his little girl had grown to be a large one and
by her seniors was considered entirely too old
to play with them and pride forbade that I
should do what they thought improper so I gave
many away retaining only the useful and those
suitable for ornaments; but after I had laid
aside my own dolls etc., and childish enjoy-
ments I remember the pleasure I took in mak-

[Column 2]
ing and dressing them for others younger than
myself. I sometimes think it a mistaken idea
in American mothers to want their daughters
to become sedate and womanly before they
have fairly reached their teens. We can never
be young but once in this life and I like child-
ren to enjoy themselves while they can for they
will grow old soon enough.
	I will mention a little incident that hap-
pened the summer previous to my father's re-
turn. The Prophet and two or three brethren
had called at our house to hear a letter read
from father, and when they rose to leave, Jo-
seph, who stood by the bureau, where a couple
of china dolls were standing upon two large
salt cellars, which had also been sent from
England to my mother, while he was talking
took one up to look at, but in replacing it
sat it upon one side, when it fell, breaking the
head off; he merely remarked: "As that has
fallen, so shall the heathen gods fall." I stood
there a silent observer, unable to understand
or appreciate the prophetic words, but thought
them a rather weak apology for breaking my
doll's head off. My mother afterwards mended
it, and though like most of us it shows signs of
age, and that it has passed through many or-
deals, yet I have kept it, with two or three
other little tokens which I received from Eng-
land, and they serve as reminders of scenes
"some forty years ago."
	My brother William and I received each a
beautifully bound Book of Mormon from
Uncle Brigham Young, with our names printed
upon the back in gilt letters, and father sent
the same to Brigham Young's daughters, Eliz-
abeth and Vilate. I have read mine through
by course more times than any book I ever
saw, and each time it has proved more interest-
ing; I was never more deeply fascinated by a
novel than I have been with the Book of Mor-
mon. There is but one fault which I find with
it—the print is so fine that many times I have
been forced to stop reading it; and this, I be-
lieve, prevents many from reading it who
otherwise would, as some who are not of our
faith but are friendly to this people, have men-
tioned this to me, and said it was the only rea-
son why they did not read it. This I think is
a great pity.
	The following historical items are interesting
and ought to be known by our sons and daugh-
ters, and by the world, who think we are a low,
ignorant, degraded people, because our enemies
say we are, forsooth. "The charter for the city
of Nauvoo, including charters for the Nauvoo
Legion and the University of the city of Nau-
voo, was signed by Governor Thomas Carlin
on the 16th of December, 1840, and took effect
from the 1st of February.	*	*	*	The
24th section empowered the City Council to
establish within the limits of the city an insti-
tution for the teaching of the arts, sciences
and learned professions, to be called the 'Uni-
versity of the City of Nauvoo,' The 25th in-
vested it with power to organize the inhabit-
ants of the city, subject to military duty, into
a body of independent military men, to be
called the 'Nauvoo Legion.' The Legion was
to perform the same amount of military duty
as was then, or thereafter might be, required
of the regular militia of the State, and was at
the disposal of the Mayor in executing the
laws and ordinances of the city corporation, and
the laws of the State and of the United States,
and was entitled to its proportion of the public
arms. The Legion was exempt from all other
military duty." This act was considered a
very liberal one, and the Prophet said: "I con-
cocted it for the salvation of the Church, and
on principles so broad that every honest man
might dwell secure under its protective influ-
ence, without distinction of sect or party."
After laying this foundation for the gathering
of the Saints, the First Presidency and the
Twelve Apostles exhorted those who had capi-

[Column 3]
tal to establish manufactories in the city, that
employment might be given to the poor and
the laboring classes as they arrived; and the
Prophet, with Sidney Rigdon and Hyrum
Smith, issued a proclamation inviting the
wealthy to remove to Nauvoo and neighbor-
hood, and establish and build up manufactories
and to pnrchase and cultivate farms, that a
permanent inheritance might be secured and
the way prepared for the poor Saints who were
desirous of gathering to Zion. An early ordi-
nance passed by the corporation provided that
"all religious sects and denominations should
have free toleration and equal privileges within
the city, and that any person ridiculing or
abusing another on account of his religious
belief, should, on conviction thereof before the
Mayor or Municipal Court, be fined in any
sum not exceeding $500, or imprisoned not ex-
ceeding six months."
	"On the 3d of February ordinances were
passed organizing the Nauvoo Legion and the
University," and one was passed regulating the
sale of intoxicating liquors, with a view to pre-
vent the introduction of drunkenness into the
city. "On the 10th of March the State Legis-
latnre passed 'An act to incorporate the Nau-
voo Agricultural and Manufacturing Associa-
tion in the county of Hancock.'"
	Those who say that the "Mormons" came
out from civilization of their own accord and
desire, to indulge in wickedness, idleness and
degradation, should read and try to under-
stand the truth concerning us. We never
thought of withdrawing from the world until
they compelled us to. We never desired to
leave our homes and the graves of our loved
ones to seek a desolate, barren and secluded
spot like this. No; we desired to dwell in
peace with the world and to benefit all man-
kind. But they would not let us live with
them and enjoy the same liberty and rights
which they were permitted to enjoy with us in
our beautiful city; but we were driven away
from them in a FREE country, and we endured
suffering from fatigue, cold and hunger, and
passed through heartrending scenes which no
pen can describe, to seek a resting place be-
yond the Rocky Mountains upon Mexican soil,
because we loved our religion more than we did
our homes or our lives. We have proved how
we loved it and our husbands and children,
and would to God that every good man and
woman could see the door which is open for
their deliverance, more especially the "down-
trodden women" of the world. Now we are
blessed with homes of our own and an abun-
dance of God's mercies, we invite our good
sisters to come here and to put aside prejudice
and open their eyes and ears and understand
that the women of this Church are the true
Sisters of Charity," for they have no desire but
to benefit the human family, although the
course which is taken towards us is calculated to
tear open the old wounds, reminding us of the
bitter wrongs which have never been redressed;
but we know what a cup of bitterness awaits
those who have persecuted and slain the inno-
cent, and the worst feeling I cherish towards
any one of them is pity, because "they know
not what they do."

To be continued.


MRS. Mary A. Livermore has been tendered
a great many flattering receptions from distin-
guished people in London, Eng.  On account
of the cold, damp weather in that city she has
gone to the sunny hills of Switzerland, where
she hopes to recuperate thoroughly after her
hard winter's lecturing.  She will sail in the
"Scythia," for Boston, on the 20th of August,
making her sojourn in all about three months.
-Ex.


