SOJOURNER TRUTH.
[SELECTED.]
 There are a great many things in the new
history of woman suffrage agitation, great
speeches, great advances of reform—but the
most splendid individual triumph was that of
Sojourner Truth, the Libyan sibyl, when she sa-
ved a Wwoman Suffrage convention from wreck.
 It was a meeting opened to debate,and the men
used to debating rallied in force and quite
abolished the courtesy to "the fair sex."  The
ministers were the worst of the lot, the most
dictatorial and insulting; one claimed that
man’s superior intellect entitled him to superior
privileges; one that Eye brought sin and
death into the world, and was therefore the
servant of man forever; another that the man-
hood of Christ was a sign of the leadership of
man, etc. The women were new to the buisness
and quite unequal to the fight;  they were in
fact ready to break down, get into a passion
and cry. Then, says Mrs. Frances D. Gage,
“slowly from her seat in the corner rose Soj-
ourner, who till now had scarcely lifted her-
head. ‘Don’t let her speak!’ gasped half a
dozen in my ear. She moved slowly and
solemnly to the front,laid her old bonnet at my
feet, and turned her great speaking eyes to me.
She spoke with those eyes piercing the upper-
air like one in a dream.” Hear a few of her
sentences—they have been printed before and
will bear to be printed many times more:
“Dat man ober dar say dat womin needs to
be helped into cahriges and lifted ober ditches
and to hab de best place eberywhar. Nobody
eber helps me into cahriges, or ober mud pud-
dles, or gibs me any best place.” And raising
herself to her full hight and her voice to a pitch
like rolling thunder, she asked, “And an't I a
woman? Look at me. Look at my arm,” (and
she bared her right arm to the shoulder, show-
ing her tremendous muscular power.) “I have
plowed, and planted, and gathered into Barns,
and no man could head me.  And an’t I a
woman?  I could work as much and eat as
much as a man—when I could get it—and bear
de lash as well. And an’t I a woman ? I have
borne 13 children and seen ’em mos' all sold off
to slavery, and when I cried out with my moth-
er's grief, none but Jesus heard me. And an’t
I a woman?
"Den dey talks about dis ting in the head—
what dis dey call it?” (“intellect,” whispered
some one near.) “Dat’s it, honey. What’s
that got to do with wimin’s rights or niggers
rights ? If my cup won’t hold but a pint and
yourn holds a quart, wouldn’t you be mean not
to let me have my little half-measure full ?
“Den, dat little man in black dar, he say
women can’t have as much rights as men cause
Christ wasn’t a woman!  Whar did your Christ
come from ?’ ’With outstretched arms and eyes
of fire, raising her voice louder, she repeated.
“Whar did your Christ come from? From God
and a woman!  man had nothin’ to do with
him!”


THE condition of the Czar is occasioning
great anxiety among the members of the Eng-
lish Royal family, plainly stated his Majesty,
it is feared, is mentally deranged. He suffers
from insomnia, with all the attendant con-
sequences of that disease. His face is described
as wan, and the whilom burly and muscular
frame as shrunken. He cannot eat, and sternly
declines to take exercise or recreation of any
kind, preferring to occupy his room, which is
strongly guarded, while its morbid and shrivel-
led occupant is a prey to the most active
fears.


