NOTES AND NEWS.
				----
	A COMET is now visible in Australia. It is
believed to be identical with that of 1861.
	Mexico is undergoing a wonderful trans-
formation at the hands of American enterprise
and capital.  It is estimated that in the in-
credible short space of seven months, $78,000,
000 has been invested in railway and mining
enterprises.
	THE PRINCE OF WALES AND THE POOR:--
Arrangements for the opening of the Maryle-
bone Workhouse Infirmary, London, having
now been made, the Prince and Princess of
Wales will attend for the purpose of perform-
ing the ceremony.  A guard of honor, composed
of the West Middlesex Volunteers, will be
mounted at the main entrance to the infirmary,
and after the address has been presented to the
Prince the Bishop of London will offer up
prayer.  The infirmary benig declared open, an
inspection of the building will be made by the
Royal visitors.
	The Woman Suffrage History is receiving
extended notice from both the secular and
religious press.  It is almost universally con-
ceded that the work is a capable, necessary
and important one, and that its editors have
performed it in a spirit of fairness, as well as
of high literary merit.  It is also generally
conceded by the reviewers that the time had
arrived in which such a work was necessary,
and that in preserving such "an arsenal of
facts" in regard to one of the great moral and
political questions of the day, its editors have
done a work of rare historical value.--Ex.
	MR. Edwin Booth drew a handsome sum
from the Lyceum exchequer for his recent en-
gagement at the theater; but it is not correct
that he recieved [-]2,000. The arrangement
was that the American actor should take [-]60
for every performance, and as there was
twenty-one representations of "Othello," his
share of the proceds amounted in all to [-]1,
260. The success of Mr. Irving's experiment
should warrant its repetition, and the public
will be glad if in the course of the next year or
two, Mr. Booth resumes that position at the
Lyceum which has so greatly raised his reputa-
tion in this country.


