CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	The Qurterly meeting of the Primary Asso-
ciation of the 11th Ward, this city, was held
Wednesday, July 20, in the Ward Meeting
House. At 2 o'clock p. m. the house was
opened for the exhibition of the children's
work, which has all been made for the chil-
dren's County Fair, which will be held in this
city during the month of September. The
articles exhibited were made by children from
four to thirteen years old, and were indeed
wonderful. One boy ten years old made a neat
little cradle for a doll; one 11 a mouse trap;
an ingenious jumping-jack was made by a boy
12, and a boy nine years old a handsome pic-
ture frame, made of heavy brown paper, cut
and folded, then varnished, giving it the ap-
pearance of a leather frame. Then there were
a variety of mottoes, worked in perforated
card board, comb cases, letter cases, card re-
ceivers, tidies. mats, pincushions, wax flowers,
wool flowers, hair flowers; one little girl who
has but one arm had made a child's stocking
with only her left hand; a little girl 4 1/2 years
old had worked a very pretty motto and cross
all herself. Then there were frosted cakes and
pie made by little girls seven years old, and
vegetables of almost every kind raised by
boys nine and ten. There was a handsome
piece of ornamentation in plaster made by a boy
12 years old.
	The meeting was conducted by Mrs. Louie
Felt, President of the Association, and there
were 145 children, all under 12, and nearly all
under 10 years old, yet the order was excellent.
Mrs. Felt has a peculiar faculty in managing
children. Exercises commenced with singing
"O my Father," &c. Minutes read and ac-
cepted. Essay on "Kindness," Lawrence
Berg. Recitation, May Dangerfield. Song,
"A Mormon Boy," Willie Tucket. Recitations,
George Colum and Charlie Tucket. Song,
Nellie and Ettie Penrose and little Louie Felt.
Three little girls sang "Gather up the sun-
beams." Essay, Susie Simons. Dialogue by
two little girls. Song by Janie Cameron and
Hattie Felt. 18 children recited in concert,
"Gather them into the fold."
	Sister Zina D. Young then addressed the
children, speaking principally of the Savior.
Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S. Clawson, Mrs. E.
Howard and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson each made
a few remarks. Mrs. Felt then talked a little


to the children, and the congregation joined
with the children in singing, “Lord dismiss us
with thy blessing.” Benediction by Johnnie
Sears.
 This is one of the best Associations in the
city, or in fact anywhere, and we have taken
pains to publish considerable about it, in order
that those who live at a distance might have
an idea of the routine of exercises, and per-
haps be benefitted in the management of their
respective organizations.
	E. B. W.


