	HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE latest news from the Executive Mansions
is favorable to the recovery of the wounded
President. There has been great anxiety on ac-
count of the relapse in his condition.
	ABOUT the middle of September there will be
a Children's Fair held in this city. It is ex-
pected that all the Primary Associations in the
County will assist in making it a success.
	SISTER Elizabeth Ann Whitney, better known
among the Latter-day Saints as Mother Whit-
ney, who has been very ill at the residence of
her daughter, Mrs. Groo, in the 9th Ward, is
much better.
	SISTERS M. Isabella Horne and Elmina S.
Taylor attended the Quarterly Conference of Re-
lief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations of Morgan Stake, held at Morgan City,
Saturday and Sunday, July 30 and 31.
	THIS is Election Day, when it is expected all
native-born or naturalized citizens interested in
the best welfare of the people of Utah, will go
to the polls and cast a vote for the People's
Ticket. Women should show their appreciation
of the franchise by turning out en masse to the
polls.
	IN regard to publishing Relief Society reports
and minutes, we wish to say, there is not space
for anything more than Stake Conference re-
ports, unless it is a new organization or re-
organization or change of some officers. It
must be clear to every one that with all the sev-
eral organizations and their multitude of
branches, it is impossible to give them all space
for representation. If there is a large gathering,
or special meeting, that is an exception. The
same will apply to the Y. L. M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations, except when Primaries have
quarterly meetings or Conferences, in their re-
spective wards; we might give space to such
minutes, or synopsis of meetings.
	A MISSIONARY in Alabama, writing to Sister
Hannah Cornaby after perusing her "Autobiog-
raphy and Poems," says concerning it, "It gave
me much pleasure and brought many scenes to
my mind; sometimes solemn thoughts, then a
smile, again the tears would fill my eyes, &c.
&c. Altogether I feel to say I was very much
entertained; it was like a spring of pure water
in a thirsty land; it made me think of "home


[Column 1]

sweet, sweet home," the home of the Saints of
Prophets and Apostles of God—noble men and
noble women, sons and daughters of Zion."
	No person can read this little book without
feeling better for it, and every honest person who
reads it, must be assured that the writer is a
Saint of God, full of integrity, whatever her pe-
culiar faith may be. To the Latter day Saint
it is full of comfort, and we heartily commend
the book to the people, and would also say that
we believe the book to be a good one to send
abroad. By all means put it into the hands of the
young people of this Church. The Y. L. and
Y. M. Associatious who are getting libraries
should not fail to have this excellent work upon
their list.
	ON Sunday, July 24, we had the pleasure of
attending the services of the dedication of the
Fifteenth Ward Hall of Worship. It is a hand-
some structure of modern architecture, and is
elegantly finished and furnished in every particu-
lar. The Relief Society of the Ward, we are
informed, assisted in the furnishing. It
has large gothic windows with stained glass,
which throw a beautiful light into the apart-
ment; the chandeliers are very handsome, tire
stand is nicely fitted up and is quite spacious;
at either side, upon the same platform, are seats
for officers, or places for reporters' tables. Alto-
gether it is the most unique Hall we have seen
in the city. The members of the Ward have
been dilligent and energetic in getting it com-
pleted and meeting all the expenses of building.
	The dedicatory services commenced at 10
o'clock. Opened by singing, "Softly beams the
sacred dawning." The dedicatory prayer was
earnest and fervent, offered by Pres. George Q.
Cannon. The choir sang "This house we dedi-
cate to Thee." Pres. John Taylor then ad-
dressed the congregation upon the creative
power of the Almighty, and His authority in
the earth, and the necessity of obedience to Him
and His laws. Made reference to the pre-exis-
tence, and also the glorious exaltation which
awaited the faithful behind the vail.
	Elder John Clark read the report of the build-
ing committee, stating that two years previous to
that very day the foundation of the house was
commenced, and now it was completed and free
from debt—at a final cost of $10,644.75.
	Pres. George Q. Cannon made a few remarks,
blessed the people for their liberality, and said
God would bless them. Choir sang the anthem,
"Jehovah's Praise," in which Mrs. Maggie Hull
sang a solo very sweetly, and a duet with Mrs.
Sarah O. Langford, their voices blending harmo-
niously and filling the house with melody. Bene-
diction by Apostle John Henry Smith.
	LADY LECTURERS—Sisters Zina D. Young,
widow of the late President Brigham Young,
and Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson expect to leave this
city on Saturday, the 20th inst., for the Eastern
States. These ladies will speak on the platform,
presenting the Mormon question from a woman's
standpoint. This will be a new departure, as
heretofore "Mormon" women have not gone out
into the world to defend the principles of their
faith. Many inquiries have been made in ref-
erence to the women of Utah socially, politically
and religiously, this they propose to present in
its true light. Mrs. Zina D. Young has been
connected with the Church from an early period
lived in Kirtland, Missouri and Nauvoo, was
with the Saints in the exodus, and has been in-
timately acquainted with all the leading men
and women, as well as the details of Church
history. She is an attractive and pleasing nat-
ural speaker. Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson is an ex-
perienced lecturer, having been in the lecture
field several years before she came to Utah. She
is a woman of fine ability, superior education,

[Column 2]

and is in every way qualified to do justice to the
subjects she may present.  These sisters go with
the approval of the highest quthority, and we
trust will be sustained by the faith and prayers
of the people.
	Sister Zina D. Young will visit her old home
and relatives in the State of New York, and also
the home of her forefathers in New Hampshire,
and gather up genealogical records of her pro-
genitors. Dr. Ferguson expects to attend the 
clinics at Bellevue Hospital, New York during
the coming session of that institution, in order
to obtain a thorough knowledge of the intest
surgical improvements. These sisters are pecu-
liarly well adapted to the mission they are ex-
pected to fill. They are women full of intelli-
gence and thorougly aquainted with "Mor-
mon" themes. There has been so much misrep-
resentation on this subject that it seems only
just and right that our sisters should speak in
their own defense, and place truth in the field,
where error has so long held away.


