DEATH OF PRESIDENT JOSEPH YOUNG.

	The death of this great and good man occurred
on Saturday morning, July 16, about four o'clock,
at his home in the 18th Ward. Uncle Joseph,
as he was affectionately styled by the people,
had been suffering for the past two months with
weakness and general debility. It was only
natural it should be so at his advanced age. Sev-
eral times during the last year he has been una-
ble to leave home for several days together, and
sometimes not for weeks; still he was bright and
cheerful, glad to see his friends, and all the time
rejoicing in the truths of the Gospel he so dearly
loved. The last time he was out was at the fu-
neral of his niece, Mrs. Fanny Little, wife of
the Mayor, and there he preached an eloquent,
earnest and consoling discourse Brother Young
delighted in comforting and soothing sorrow and
distress, and was particularly gifted in this re-
spect. His heart was always full of blessings,
and his language never seemed to fail in giving
full and free expression to the sentiments of his
soul. He always seemed to have a calm and
peaceful spirit, and was most happily gifted in
imparting that feeling to others.
	It is said that this good man passed away with-
out a struggle or a gasp, and this seems in keep-
ing with his peaceful disposition. An angel of
peace seemed to hover over and attend him al-
ways, and when his time had fully come and the
heavenly escort was in view, his assurance was
no doubt so perfect that in the language of the
poet these words might be significant of his de-
parture to that "other shore,"
			"Sustained and soothed
	By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
	Like one that wraps the drapery of his couch
	About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams."
Only Uncle Joseph is not dreaming, he has
passed the ordeal that gives him abundant en-
trance into the mansions of glory, where a host
of friends bade him welcome, and no doubt
shouted hosanna on his arrival.
	Joseph Young, Sen., the subject of this me-
moir, was born April 7, 1797, in Hopkinton, Mid-
dlesex County, Mass, and was the second son of
John Young and Nabbie Howe.
	He received the Gospel while residing in
Canada, and was at that time an earnest and
devoted Methodist preacher. His brother, the
late President Brigham Young, brought him the
glad tidings of the Everlasting Gospel and of the
Latter-day work, and he received it readily and
was very soon after baptized. He gathered with
the Church in Kirtland at a very early period,
and was one of the first Seventies ordained.
February 28, 1835, he was called by the Prophet
Joseph Smith to be the First President of all the
Seventies, which position he held from that time
until his demise. He was one of the famous

[Column 2]

Zion's Camp, which went up to Missouri in 1834,
and endured at that time much privation and
hardship. He was at the horrible massacre at
Haun's Mill, and barely made his escape alive;
on the following day he returned and helped to
bury the dead, although he was one of the most
tender-hearted men who ever lived, yet he as-
sisted at that dreadful burial, the details of which
are too horrifying to mention.
	Brother Young was one of the first settlers in
Nauvoo, where he had a comfortable home and
surroundings, after the persecutions of Missouri,
but was forced to leave it and become again an
exile, in 1846, when the Saints were compelled
to leave their beautiful city in the middle of
winter. He remained at Winter Quarters until
1850, when he crossed the plains with his family
in ox teams, and settled in Salt Lake City, where
he has ever since resided. He has traveled and
preached extensively in the Territory, and in
1870 visited the British Isles, and preached
in the old world. He was greatly beloved by
the people everywhere, and was one of those
lovable dispositions that always attract those
with whom they are associated. He was a benev-
olent and merciful man, full of kindness and
good works. He was full of integrity to the
cause he had espoused, and never wearied of
proclaiming its principles.
	He has lived a life of virtue, purity and up-
rightness, and his loss will be sincerely mourned
by thousands. He had attained the advanced
age of eighty-four years, three months and nine
days, and in the language of Scripture, "has
gone as a shock of corn fully ripe," to receive
the crown prepared for the faithful who serve
God and keep His commandments.
	The funeral of Pres. Joseph Young was held
in the large Tabernacle in this city on Tuesday,
July 19, at eleven o'clock a. m., and was attended
by thousands of the Latter-day Saints. The
services were conducted by Elder Horace S. El-
dredge, who had been intimately associated with
him in his office.
	There was music by the brass band, followed
by the choir (Uncle Joseph was passionataly fond
of music). Prayer by Apostle F. D. Richards.
Singing. The speakers were Pres. Wilford
Woodruff, Pres. George Q. Cannon and Pres.
John Taylor, all expressing the highest regard
for the deceased, enumerating his many excel-
lent qualities of heart and mind, and extolling
his integrity to the Gospel. There was solemn
music by the Careless Orchestra, the choir sang,and the benediction was pronounced by Pres.
Joseph F. Smith, which concluded the ceremo-
nies at the Tabernacle.
	The casket containing the remains was pro-
fusely ornamented with exquisite flowers, artis-
tically arranged in crosses, crowns, anchors and
bouquets, and a sheaf of wheat fully ripe, em-
blematical of the full life, was bound with a
white ribbon, on which was printed in gold let-
ters the appropriate words, "Well done, good
and faithful servant." Above it was a sickle
decorated with pure, white flowers. It was a
beautiful tribute to the memory of the de-
parted.
	Brother Young leaves a large family, who will
miss his fatherly counsel and affection, but they
have a noble example to follow, and may well
be proud of such an illustrious man.
	It is impossible to do justice to the life and
labors of such a man as was President Joseph
Young in words, language fails, but we deeply
reverence his memory, and feel assured it will
be ever fresh in the hearts of the Saints. Let
us who remain emulate his virtues and strive
to attain that heavenly patience, resignation
and humility that characterized the life of
Uncle Joseph Young.





