		     CONTINUED. 

 Although the life of the lady who is the sub-
ject of this sketch had always been full of labor
and good works, public and private, yet
after entering upon the seventies at a 
time when most people think they must retire
from active duty, her life seems to have been
more continuously occupied with arduous labors
than before.  In October 1875 when prepar-
tions were being made for the great Centennial
Exposition at Philadelphia the Executive De-
partment engaged in that work wrote to Miss
Eliza R. Snow under date of Oct. 29, 1875, an
official letter authorizing her to act as President
of the "Woman's Centennial Executive Com-
mittee" for Utah, and sent such papers and
documents as would aid her in the responsible
undertaking.  To effect the object of preparing
for suitable representation at the exhibition,
required a great deal of management and ac-
cordingly Sister Eliza issued a circular to the
Relief Societies, Young Ladies Associations
and the Women of Utah generally; soliciting
them to prepare "specimens of all useful and 
ornamental home industries of woman's work,
also all natural curiosities of their own collect-
ing etc., etc.  These were all to be forwarded
by the first of March to Mrs. E. D. Gillespie
Pres. Woman's Centennial Executive Com-
mittee at Philadelphia.  From that time she
spared no pains to bring about the desired ar-
rangements. It required more labor and cal-
culation than one might think perhaps, for
there were meetings to be held, letters to be
written to all parts, answers to be made to in-
numberable questions, verbal and by mail, and
many little items to be attended to, and the 
great burden of the responsibility and labor
devolving upon her.  I have often thought it
wonderful in looking back, how she accomplished
so much in that short time.  It proves how suc-
cessful were her methods of reaching the
people.
 During all that year there seemed to be an 
accumulation of labor pressing upon the L. D.
S., women of Utah, and all looking to Sister
Eliza as the head and front of the work, which
caused her to be more sought after and kept her
employed heart and hands, and required her
mind to be drawn out in giving counsel to others.
It was impossible to procure space for Utah to
be properly represented as we had desired, on 
account of the Gentleman's Executive Com-
mittee for Utah postponing their arrangements
for securing space until so late, and therefore
Sister Eliza and the Committee associated with
her deemed it the better plan to send only a
few of the best fabrics and materials to the
Centennial Exhibition, and open a Fair here
at home.  As there were many passing to and
from California and other parts visiting the
Centennial it would be an attraction for such
visitors, as well as a benefit to our own com-
munity.  Accordingly the Constitution Build-
ing was fitted up to display the articles on ex-
hibition.  Sister Eliza had charge of the affair
with some other ladies as assistants who were
valuable aids.  The Fair opened on the fourth
of July 1876 the same as the Centennial Fair.
President Brigham Young made an appropriate
opening address to a large and appreciative
audience.
 The Fair having been formally opened peo-
ple flocked in and for a few days it was crowded
constantly.  There were many things that at-
tracted the attention of strangers and tourists,
and Sister Eliza presiding there as she did with
the grace and dignity of a very queen and yet
with the simplicity of manner that bespeaks at
once rare nobility, made it very interesting for
all who called to see, or to purchase any of the
almost innumerable variety exhibited.
 During that year Sister Eliza conversed
with thousands of casual callers, among whom 
were people of celebrity from different parts of
the world, and in this way she did good mis-
sionary work, and has no doubt scattered the 
seeds of truth in the hearts of many.  On the
24th, of the same month, Pioneer Day, the
citizens of Salt Lake joined those in Ogden
and that vicinity in celebrating the advent of
the pioneers of '47 and Sister Eliza was called
upon to write the address, for that accasion,
which was read by David McKenzie, and was
said to have been one of the best things she
ever wrote, it was patriotic and inspiring; she
was also requested to write a song for the
Ogden choir to open the ceremonies with which
we publish in full.
			HYMN OF PRAISE.
