THE DAYS WE LIVE IN.

	In conversation with a friend not long since,
I was asked if we did not read in Acts of the
Apostles, 2d chapter and 17th verse, that God
said in the last days He would pour out His
Spirit upon all flesh, and if I did not think
these were the days alluded to; "for," said he,
"was there ever a time when so many inven-
tions were attained to, as within the last fifty
years? Is there any acconnt in history where
so much has been accomplished in the same
length of time?" I think when we reflect we
could readily say the same. Believing as we
do that God our Father is the Author of all
science and the head of all intelligence, then,
accordingly, a great work must be done in
these days. This seems entirely consistent with
the plan of the Latter-day work. But we are
told that such or such a person had power to
become great, or skilled in invention, yet he
was an infidel—he did not believe in God, he
did not acknowledge Him, because he did not
know Him, never having seen Him, etc. I
would ask, did he know his earthly parents?
Is it not faith in what he has been told, besides
some marks of attention shown, which con-
vinced him that they were his parents. Chil-
dren are not capacitated to know this. Their
parents have a knowledge upon this subject,
but the children walk by faith. Even so is it
with man as regards the Heavenly Father. He
has a knowledge of us and will aid and assist
us, if we will have faith. If we have no faith
He will bless His children in laudable desires,
in studying and in gaining intelligence of His
works, and in this way we will learn something
of His great wisdom and power. Besides, we
read in holy writ that the gifts and callings of
God are without repentance. But can we
draw near to, and become acquainted with our
Heavenly Father without repentance and faith?
I think not. This is the pattern our Savior set
for us. He kept His Father’s laws, which is
an example for us. Those laws we believe are
superior to all other laws.
	It seems that a reckless spirit is ripening in
these days, which brings confusion and strife,
and many young people suppose that a person
is not manly unless he possesses this daring
and reckless, independent, uncontrollable spirit.
Watch the result, and then ask where is the
wisdom in cultivating such wayward feelings?
I would rather adhere to that spirit which
brings peace, although I must sacrifice my own
feelings by doing so. It is better to be subject
to laws and regulations, than to pursue a reck-
less, independent course; and shows more and
greater nobility of character.
	What has the would-be assassin gained by
shooting President Garfield? A reckless,
wicked spirit, one not subject to law or order,
must have taken possession of Guitteau, and
he was under its control; and there seems to be
many wicked spirits abroad in the earth, who
would destroy the good and the pure were it in
their power. What had President Garfield
done to deserve such a fate? Was he tyran-
nical? No, not that we can learn. He had
not been in office long enough to show this trait
of character, had he possessed it. While visit-
iting our city and our people, we formed quite


a different-opinion-of Gen. Garfield. Those
who made his acquaintance thought him to be
a man, of sound mind and good principles, one
who would not condescend to a mean action.
'Tis true, he made some harsh remarks in his
message about what the fate of the Mormons
would be, but we cherished not the least ill-
feeling towards him on account of that-these
days are in many respects like those in which
the Gospel was preached in the days of Jesus,
and a strange fancy took possession of my mind
upon reading the President's message; it was
this: Is not President Garfield in the same po-
sition that Pilate was in the days of Jesus, and
are not his feelings the same-to please the
people? This may well be called a strange
fancy, because he has not expressed his feelings
in this way; but it is my impression, and I
might almost say faith.
	The spirit of daring and recklessness mani-
fested by Guitteau is what will bring destruc-
tion and desolation, sorrow and distress upon
the earth; and how much better for men to
cultivate the spirit of peace and humility and
gentleness, than to sow the seeds of discord
and anarchy and contention. Our lives are
frail at best, easily snatched from us; good men
and women would rather die than bring a blot
upon their character, or prove disloyal to their
integrity in a just cause. Such persons are
pleasing in the sight of God.
	We as a people feel that we are in the hands
of God, and we acknowledge His goodness and
power. He knows the frailties of the human
family, and will cause all things to work to-
gether for good to those who love Him and are
called according to His purpose to serve Him,
and who are trying to keep His command-
ments.
	But says one, "Did the Savior teach polyga-
my? I do not read that He has ever spoken
upon this subject." I would reply, it was a
custom of the Jews anciently, when they were
a nation.  Our Savior denounced sin in all its
forms, but never spoke upon plural marriage,
which should be a testimony that it is not sin.
Undoubtedly He knew if people believed and
practised the laws given to govern His kingdom,
they could live in any position without strife
and confusion, because these laws require genu-
ine love, and a person cannot be a Saint with-
out that. Is not plural marriage a good test
whereby to prove who can love his neighbor as
himself? and also who can deal out even-
handed justice to those under their care? Those
who can do these things are godlike, and de-
 serve to be loved and revered. They are the
nobility of the earth. A people who will gov-
ern themselves by the best rules given to man,
are in my opinion of true noble birth, although
born in polygamy. The Savior's lineage is
traced direct to this form of marriage, and He
never denounced it as unholy or impure.
When I express these views and sentiments to
others, I find their feelings are in every respect
the same as those of your friend and sister in
the Gospel of Christ.
