Y. L. M. I. A.

	The Quarterly Conference of Y. L. M. I. A. Salt
Lake Stake was held in the Assembly Hall, Sat-
urday June 8th, 1881. Mrs. M. A. Freeze pre-
siding. Singing. Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne,
singing, Minutes of previous Conference read
and accepted, verbal reports given. First Ward
represented by one of the Counselors, 2nd ward
by Miss McGregor, 3d, ward Mrs. Della W. Eardly
9th ward Mrs. Maggie Groo, 10th ward Mrs.
Joslen, 11th ward Louie White, 15th ward Miss
S. E. Russell, 19th ward Caroline Raleigh, Sugar
House ward Mrs. Harriet Hardy, Taylorsville
one of the young ladies. Pres. Freeze said we
used to recite in school "Large oaks from little
acorns grow;" and thinking of this I gather
encouragement. In one of the revelations we
read that if a man labor all his days and save
one soul how great will be his joy. We have
saved more than one. I do not feel to relax my
efforts but to renew them. I would again urge
that our sisters ask their Bishops to aid us. We
have Sister J. S. Richards from Ogden here, we
may receive good instruction from her. Let us
give her our faith and prayers."


[Column 1]
	Sister Richards. "I have a testimony though
I did not expect to be called upon to-day. We
all want to be favorably regarded by our Father.
I have never had any doubts as to this being
the Gospel of the Son of God. If any opportun-
ities to testify to are neglected, I set a bad exam-
ple to the young. I feel a little grieved to see
so few here, for I know how many have been
reared with fond hopes in this direction, and
yet how few are realized; I have been pleased to
hear the reports, to learn the determination on
the part of the few to continue. How pleasing
this is to us. Every day I feel a renewed zeal to
live my religion. We wish to do all in our power
to guard our young people. How much pleasure
we could have enjoyed if we had had these
organizations in our youth. I accost every girl
I meet if I know her, and ask her if she attends
her meetings If she is working out and cannot,
I advise her to work for less where she can have
the privilege of going to meeting. Let us live so
that every day's labor will be guided by our
Father. Let us do all we can to encourage the
young ladies in their Associations. How I
would have rejoiced to see all who should have
been here. I wish to listen to the sisters; it is
two years since I attended your Conference. I
had hoped to attend the Primary Conference but
found I was too late."
	Sister Nancy A. Clark, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A.
Davis Stake, said she regretted to see so scant a
representation; "it is not my prerogative to find
fault but it seemes to me that the parents should
insist on their children attending their Associa-
tions. This is not a matter of choice or taste,
but a command to us as much as to the brethren.
We must practice what we preach. For the lack
of knowledge, and by the bands of tradition we
seem to be fettered and falter in going forward.
It should be our aim to carry on the labor ap-
pointed to us. God has given us each a talent,
if we have only one, greater zeal is required lest
we lose even that. He who has ten talents has
acquired others by faithfully improving one.
We will come forward in the last day lacking
those blessings we might have received. Some
seem to consider these meetings [-]nnecessaay.
We look to the commands of the present oracles.
That we may understand these things and teach
our children is my prayer. Let us persevere and
we will accomplish many good things. I can
give a good report of Davis Stake, we have good
Conferences and meetings. There is work for
every one in Zion to combat evil." Pres. Joseph
E. Taylor: "I am pleased to meet with as many
as are present. I did expect to find the house
full but I am not going to find fault. Sister
Clark has touched on many topics. One is, 'is
there any work for the Sisters?' Yes! To define
that work would require more time than I have
to occupy with you this afternoon. To attempt
anything outside of that for which weare by
nature qualified would be a mistake; but to
follow our individuality, we shall satisfy our-
selves, our associates and our Father. If we are
laboring to build up Zion, we have a right to
claim the aid and blessings of heaven. Is there
a field for the sisters among the youth of Zion?
There is! There are more to-day here who love
[---] and extremes than there were five
[---]rs ago. I have been questioned as to my
[---] on this. The unseen influences that
[---]o potent, they are on the side of evil
[---]owerful. We find a command, "let your
[---]ts be plain, and the workmanship of your
[---]nds." Any departure from the will of
[---], in any person, young or old is destruc-
[---]n discard his word in part we lessen
[---]n upon Him. In this there is a large
[---]	*	*	*	The tendency to immor-
[---] increasing. In this respect the in-
[---]s of evil are tireless. These labors are in
[---]y with the nature of evil.
[---] A. M. Cannon: "I feel gratified in being
[---]tted to address you. What I have heard
[---]ratified me much. What I may say I hope
[---]be for good. I might from my own exper-
[---]give some advice. There is work for the
[---]rs, man is not without the woman in the
[---]d nor the woman without the man. A joint
[---]mand was laid down on both. It would be
[---]ll if young women would encourage their
[---]sbands in their duties; she would thus help
[---]tablish his position in the Church. I know
[--]here women have used an influence against
[-]aying tithing and other rules, these families
have drifted backwards. There is the objection
to plain attire, that the best-dressed girls receive
the attention of the gentlemen. I would
prefer my daugghters to marry working
men, no matter how poor, rather than be-
come the wives of men who only seek employ-
ment as professional peddlers. We should seek to

[Column 2]
promote industries among us, I would like to see
knitting resumed. I wish that some of these
Associations would develop some of these old
talents. These cardboard ornaments are a pre-
vailing industry in Zion but it is hard to find a
pair of home-made socks. I would like to see
these industries encouraged in Zion. Look after
the boys." Referred to finding the boys smoking;
to mothers driving their children into the street
instead of drawing them round them, advised
mothers not to screen the faults of their children
from their fathers. Teach your children to respect
the father's instructions, there are enjoyments
which are also industries; you will find the sat-
isfacation with plain clothes and moderate means
will be the path to prosperity. Look at the
Saints from Swtizerland and other countries of
hard labor, and see them gather the comforts of
life around them. &c.
	Pres. M. A. Freeze: "I have enjoyed this
meeting, I have been impressed to urge the As-
sociations to use an influence to stem the tide of
extravagence. It is time, it has gone too far. I
heard Pres. Young say an angel would pass by
those who were fashionably and foolishly dressed
if one came to visit the earth. We will have
written reports next Conference. Conference
adjourned for three months, sang "Come thou
fount of every blessing." Benediction by Pres.
Joseph E. Taylor.
