CONCLUDED.

	Minnie staid on with the girls about two
years, when, her hero coming, she gave herself
to his keeping.
	She wrote for her father's consent to the mar-
riage but he treated the matter lightly sending
her no means as she thought he would for so
important an event. She was deeply grieved
to be so ignored, the more so as she could only
infer that it was due to his wife's influence.
On marrying she removed to another county
and for many years saw very little of the girls
who married and settled at Salt Lake.
	Her mother came to live with her, and after
awhile accepted the proposals of a man whose
first wife was dead, his children were grown up,
and shortly after married; she lived with him
eighteen years, and at the age of sixty-four, sur-
rounded by her husband, and three daughters
she passed to the better world, one of her last
hopes being that Jesse would meet her there.
	She died in full faith of the Gospel, and ex-
pectation of a resurection with the just.
	She often said "everything would work to-
gether for good to those who loved God, and
kept his commandments."
	Jesse meantime gave his wife great uneas-
ness by willing the hotel to his children.  It
was her intention to get it into her own hands
for the benefit of herself and her brothers and
sisters, she having no children made them her
special charge.
	After Minnie's marriage herself and sister
were entirely ignored except by an occasional
letter from her father. He felt very bitter to-
wards the Church and towards Mary and the
children. His wife made determined efforts to
gain her point, which resulted in sending him
deeper in the slough of intoxication. As men
always do who use liquor to excess, he vainly
thought it would make life more endurable, but
it rather blinded his intellect, until she, by her
scheming brought things to a crisis. The hotel
was mortgaged and finally sold. The will
burned, and all Jesse's available means was
laid out on the farm. He went to the Sand-
wich Islands where he remained several years;
Mrs. Burns in the mean time making herself
a home in San Francisco. He sent her money
from time to time, but they seldom met. There
was no harmony of feeling existing between
them or sympathy such as should influence
husband and wife.
	After living in this way for several years and
squandering the fine property which he had
amassed, she died of a lingering and painful
disease.
	Jesse lived a few years longer and died
alone in San Francisco at the age of seventy,
and but for the kindness of his friends, would
have been laid in a pauper's grave.
	And now patient reader if you have followed
this little narrative to a close; and listened to
the trials of two loving, generous hearts, that
ever beat truly for each other; you will see how
time and circumstances could so blend, that
they could finish their lives in separate ways.
This is a true story and I have given it no ficti-
tious coloring.


As I reflect on the circumstnces of their
lives, and see Mary's children honorable and
respected, filling happy homes, and send my
mind to that far off land, the center of so many
bright romances and bitter disappointments, and
think of the lonely old man, whose late years
were filled with bitterness and sorrow, and re-
flect on what was and what might have been,
I am led to wonder of the hand of an overruling
Providence guided the life of Mary Burns, or,
"Was it Fate?"
	By the author of Pipsy Papers &c.


