AMANDA SMITH
[CONCLUDED]
﻿
	Sister Smith has not only been a woman of
great faith and heroism, but she has always been
public-spirited and philanthropical, and on many
occasions rendered efficient aid to others under
trying circumstances, though she earned her
own support with the help of her little boys.
	On the 24th of January 1834, a number of
ladies met together to consider the importance
of organizing a society for the purpose of making
clothes for the Indians and other charitable work,
which was properly organized Feb. 9th. Sister
Smith was one of the officers of the Society,
which resulted in much temporal good being
accomplished. At the time of the reorganiza-
tion of the Relief Society, Sister Smith being a
member of the 12th Ward and known to be a
woman of ability and enterprise as well as charti-
able work, was chosen and set apart by the Bish-
op as First Counselor to the President of the 12th
Ward Society, Mrs. Priscilla M. Staines. She
was an indefatigable laborer in this capacity for
many years, among the poor and sick minister-
ing to both their spiritual and temporal needs.
She never shrank from any duty however ardu-
ous, while her health permitted her to fill the
position. In the hour of death she was always
equal to the emergency encouraging those who
were called to part with their friends and rela-
tives, pointing out to them the glorious hope of

[Column 2]

the Latter-day Saints and in that tender
motherly way which only women of intense
human sympathies can do, softening and alle-
viating the pangs of poignant grief. Thus has
her long and useful life been filled with good
work, and now as the evening time of life appro-
aches, she is still armed with sublime courage
and rich in the faith of the glorious Gospel of
the Son of God.
	In consequence of the many harships
she endured through the persectuions in
Missouri which were heaped upon her and
her family by a relentless mob, her health was
undermined, and as years increased, infirmities
settled upon her which rendered her unable to
retain the position she had held in the Relief
Society. She was honorably released and will
ever be remembered by the Bishop and his Coun-
selors and the members of the ward for her be-
nevolence and self-denial in ministering to the
unfortunate.
	Sister Smith has much to rejoice over even in
her present affiction for she has raised her family
in the principles of the Gospel of Christ and the
fear of God, and they remain true and steadfast
to the faith of the Latter-day work. A good wo-
man who has reared to manhood and womanhood
a large family almost without a father's help is
certainly worthy of commendation and must
have great satisfaction in her life and labor. No
higher compliment, in our opinion could be
paid a woman than that she had succeeded in
raising a good and honorable family; this Sister
Smith has accomplished. She has a comfortable
home in her old age and can "sit under her own
vine and fig tree" figuratively spekaing, the re-
sult of her own hard labor. She has been for
more than fifty years a member of the Church
of Jesus Christ of latter-day Saints, having been
baptized April 1, 1831,—by Elder Simeon D.
Carter.
	There are very few now living who have a
record of more than half a century in this
Church. Sister Smith has endeared herself to a
very large number of the Latter-day Saints, who
are ever read to do her honor for her faith,
integrity, and they many estimable qualitites which
have beautified and adorned her life.
	On the fiftieth anniversary of her baptism,
Mrs. M. A. Freeze addressed a poem to Sister
Amanda Smith, giving a history in verse of
some important events in her life, but it is too long
for publication here. She most appropriately
styles her a veteran in Zion. Such exppressions
of friendship are comforting to those who have
labored hard and long in assisting to establish
the kingdom of God upon the earth. Her testi-
mony of the massacre at Haun's mill in Missouri
is that of an eye witness and participator. In-
deed she might with all propriety be termed the
heroine of that fearful tragedy, for her sublimity
of courage surpassed that of ordinary mortals.
God was with her in his power in her hour of sev-
ere trouble, and she was indeed a host in herself.
In listening even to the recital of those fearful
days, one's heart almost stands still, strong men
tremble and grow pale, and women weep. In
conclusion we would say may heaven's choicest
blessings rest upon her the remainder of her
days, here upon the earth, her heart be filled with
joy and peace ontinually and may she continue
to bear a faithful testimony to the truth and
live until she has accomplished all she has ever
anticipated for the living and the dead.
	E. B. W.


