Relief Society Conference Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 3, 1925. There were two sessions: a meeting for general and stake officers and board members held in the Bishop's Building, and a general session in the Assembly Hall for the public. Both sessions were well attended and great interest was manifested in the general discussions as well as in the special addresses. The ushers for the conference were very courteously furnished by the Ensign stake. The excellent music provided for the services was under the direction of the chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, assisted by the organist, Miss Edna Coray. President Clarissa S. Williams presided at the sessions and conducted the general discussions at the officers' meetings, which were participated in by the officers assembled.
MORNING SESSION President Clarissa S. Williams
We greet you this morning, dear sisters, with love in our hearts for you and for your efforts in the great work in which you are engaged, and feel to say to you that your reward is sure, because he or she who has the Spirit of the Lord sufficiently to give time and energy in the benefiting of mankind will surely receive a reward from our heavenly Father.
The work of the Relief Society in the last six months has gone on rapidly. There have been some reorganizations. There have been some vacancies caused by death and aside from this the work of the organization has gone on in the same splendid manner in which it has always done. We are sending out to you our representatives to visit you at the conventions, and we feel sure that they are bringing to you words of blessing and of love and of helpfulness, and we appreciate the kindness which you show them and we feel to say to you that they appreciate what you do for them to make them comfortable and happy while they are away from their families and homes.
I would like to say a word to these officers in regard to the loyalty which they should feel to the mother organization of the Church. In the Relief Society there is no sectionalism. It is all the great Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whether the members are in the mission fields or whether they are in the stakes of Zion. And be assured, dear sisters, that there is no feeling of sectionalism in the hearts of the General Board. You are all our beloved sisters. And whatever we try to do to lead the way is done in the true spirit of comradeship. I would have you all remember that no matter where you are, you are a part of that great body of women who are working for the betterment of women and children and communities.
Loan Funds: During the last year the General Board has set aside money for two loan funds, which are known as the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and the Social Workers' Loan Fund. The amount set aside is $1500 for each fund. These funds were started by two $100 gifts to the General Board, to be used in the interest of any desired welfare work. It was decided by the Board to use this money for the beginning of the loan funds and almost immediately $1,400 was added to each of the funds. It is the intention of the General Board to lend this money to hospital graduate nurses who desire to take up training for public health, and to social service workers who desire to continue training in eastern institutions. The plan at present is to allow $750 to each applicant. We are very pleased to report that we have had one applicant for each of these funds, and have made arrangements to make the loans. Miss Ione Alder, a registered graduate nurse, has been tendered the loan from the Public Health Nurse Loan Fund and is now studying public health nursing at the University of California. Miss Genevieve Thornton, a member of the staff of the welfare department, has been granted a loan from the Social Service Fund and is at present registered at the University of Chicago graduate school of social science.
Nursing: The Civic Center in Salt Lake City, in co-operation with the Red Cross, has opened a department for training women in home hygiene and care of the sick, the course to consist of sixteen lessons of one hour and a half each, to be given in a period of two months. The Relief Society women in Salt Lake county are very much interested in this course and are taking advantage of it. At a meeting between representatives of the Civic Center and the General Board of Relief Society, the matter of arranging for a three-months' course in practical nursing was discussed, and it is quite probable that such a course will be given after the Christmas holidays. It is barely possible that women from the outside of Salt Lake county might be admitted to this course. If anybody here is interested, the General Board would be pleased to hear from them.
Night Meetings of the Relief Society: The question has been asked the General Board recently as to what the attitude of the board is relative to the Relief Society holding meetings at night rather than on Tuesday, the regular day. In answer to this question, I would say that the General Board prefers that Relief Society meetings be held in the afternoon of Tuesday, each week. However, in communities where the Priesthood has directed that the Relief Society should hold meetings in the evening, we recommend that the sisters comply with the request. Where Relief Society meetings are held in the evening, we recommend that the Relief Society either hold separate opening exercises from the Priesthood, or that they make a special request that the opening exercises be limited sufficiently so that the class work may not be interfered with or neglected. It has been reported to us that in some instances so much time is taken up with the opening exercises that there is not time to complete the lessons. Where Relief Society meetings are held at night, it is recommended by the General Board that a work meeting be held once a month in the day time, in order that the sewing and other activities of the organization shall not be interfered with. It has been called to our attention that where meetings are held in the evening, it is very difficult for the stake board to visit the wards. This, of course, would be a great loss to a Relief Society.
Vacation or Open Period Extended One Month and Course of Study Shortened from Ten to Nine Months: The matter of limiting the Relief Society lesson course to nine months was discussed recently by the General Board. At the present time the course covers ten months, and the months of July and August are considered vacation or open months, with the requirement, however, that the work and business meeting be held during these two months. The question of shortening the course and adding the month of September to the two open months of July and August for further vacation, or for special or extra preliminary meetings, was reported as being favored by many Relief Society women. The General Board, after due consideration, now recommends that the lesson course or the guide lessons of the Relief Society cover a nine-months' period beginning October 1 and ending the last of June, and that during the three months of July, August and September, the only requirement be that the work and business meeting be held; also that September be set aside for special work preliminary to the opening of the classes in October—for teachers' conventions and special meetings introductory to the regular work. President Williams presented this recommendation formally and it was unanimously adopted by the assemblage.
Relief Society Magazine: The question was recently asked whether or not the General Board is considering offering 10% to agents on each subscription they secure. Our answer regarding this is, that unless we raise the price of the Magazine, it will be impossible for us to allow a percentage to Magazine agents. During the war when nearly all other Church publications raised their subscription prices, the Relief Society Magazine undertook to publish its periodical without raising the subscription price, and in so doing it went behind. The matter was presented to the stake presidents assembled in conference just at the close of the war, and at this joint meeting of General Board members and stake presidents, it was decided to abolish agents' fees and to make a heroic effort to keep the price of the Magazine at $1 a year. The stake presidents assembled at that time agreed to work for increased subscriptions and to do everything possible to make the Magazine a success without raising the price. Everybody connected with the Magazine in the stakes and wards took up the work voluntarily and we have been able to maintain the Magazine at the rate of $1 a year. If agents' fees should be established again, it would be necessary at this time to raise the price of the Magazine, and the general Board feels that it is better to maintain the present rate and follow the present plan. It is felt by many Relief Society workers, both stake and local, that the duties of Magazine representatives and agents are not the most arduous of Relief Society workers' duties, and we feel sure that they are all glad and willing to give volunteer service. The work of stake and ward presidents and secretaries is more taxing and comprehensive, and other officers and class leaders are giving a great deal of volunteer service. We hope that if this question comes up in any of the stakes and wards that the stake presidents will be able to explain why the Magazine agents in the Relief Society are not allowed commissions. Agents are allowed to deduct, from the total amount sent in for lists of subscriptions, the postage and money order fees charged them when making remittances to the Magazine office. If this allowance were not made, Magazine agents would have to defray this expense, personally, when sending subscriptions to headquarters.
President Williams reported that Miss Alice Louise Reynolds, who has been absent on an educational trip during the past year, has returned home and is ready to resume her duties as associate editor of the Relief Society Magazine. During her absence, Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans has been conducting the editorial affairs of the Magazine, and has carried it on most satisfactorily.
HEALTH WORK IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY Discussion led by President Clarissa S. Williams
It is desired in this discussion that consideration be given to the brief reports of those who are undertaking the establishment of maternity beds and maternity hospitals. We understand from some of our stakes, that a slight preliminary survey was made by them in an effort to establish maternity beds, and it was found that the women in those localities preferred to be confined in their own homes. The General Board is frequently asked for advice along these lines, and has decided that the best thing to do is to find out how those who are undertaking maternity beds and hospitals are getting along, before making further recommendations to other stakes. We shall ask Mrs. Amanda Bagley, of the Cottonwood stake, to report her work in this direction, and also Mrs. Nellie P. Head, of the Oneida stake. We should like to know, among other things, what prices are being charged for care in the beds and in the hospital, and whether or not the beds and the hospitals are well patronized. We should like to know also of the difficult problems met in conducting the work, and whether such undertakings pay their own expenses. We should like also to hear a word from the Blackfoot or Shelley stakes regarding the pooling of funds and hiring of a public health nurse. We understand that in Sevier stake the old pressure cookers which were bought during the war to bottle fruit, are being used successfully for sterilizing, and we pass this on to you.
COTTONWOOD STAKE MATERNITY HOSPITAL Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley, Stake President
After nearly ten months of experience in maternity hospital work, we have concluded that it is the biggest job our Relief Society has ever undertaken. As pioneers in this movement we do not want to lead any of you into unsafe territory. The task is an arduous one, and if we succeed we shall feel to praise the Lord because we could not do it by our efforts alone. The first problem we had was in securing our home; the next was in finding means to equip it; the next was help to operate it; and the last is converting people to coming to the
hospital. In order to convince you of some of the problems we have in keeping help and in securing the kind of help we want, I will relate an instance of the past week. We have been fortunate in having two of the best nurses in the state in our hospital. About two months ago our head nurse had to take a vacation and we have found that it is very hard to find another to succeed her. We have also learned that without a good nurse in charge the hospital would go on the rocks ina few days. The other help is not quite so important as is the head nurse, as she assumes the responsibility of the home and of the patients, but good food and clean rooms and clean sheets are also essential. We have also found difficulty in keeping a good cook. We feel that a community without access to employment 
 bureaus would have a much harder time than we did in securing help. We had considerable difficulty in finding a laundress for our home, and finally my counselor and I had to go to the home and do the washing until we could secure some one to do this work. In times of necessity some of the stake board members have gone to the hospital and served six weeks at a time, without pay. In our times of concern we have often felt with Shakespeare, that "fools rush in where angels fear to tread." The Church purchased the Hospital for us. It is located one block east of State street on 56 South street. It is a beautiful white brick two-story building, and is built with every modern convenience, but a home is not a hospital, and we have suffered many inconveniences from that fact. With all these drawbacks I feel that we have been wonderfully successful. I do not know a patient we have had who has offered a complaint, after leaving the hospital. We feel that this is our advertising year, and we have not operated the hospital long enough yet to know whether it will be successful or not. We spent $2,250 buying furnishings; the up-keep every month has been $450, and improvements each month, $50, making a total of $500 per month. Receipts from the hospital per month average $365; receipts from other sources, $502. The other resources that I speak of have been funds for entertainments from our sewing department, personal contributions, wheat interest, and our annual stake dues. We are a very economical board. We never have spent 5c of our annual dues for personal purposes, not even so much as for a street car ticket. We pay our own expenses and aside from this our board members make monthly contributions for what we call pin money, and when we buy flowers or anything of that kind, it is, paid for from our pin money. We have had in our hospital 101 patients up to date. We have only been operating it ten months, and the first two or three months there were but few patients. People are slow to adopt anything new even for their own benefit, and so we have had an average of a little over ten patients a month. Our prices at the hospital are $40 for two weeks. That covers everything in the hospital, including the operating table, all medicine (unless there is a prescription by the doctor), the use of a baby's layette and the baby's laundry. This price was arranged at the opening of our hospital, but the doctors and nurses have now recommended $40 tor twelve days. They say the patients are almost always ready to leave the hospital in twelve days and the shorter period will give us more revenue and room for more patients. We have ten patients at the present time. The most we have had at one time were eleven. The people of Jordan stake have been as loyal as our own stake in supporting the hospital. We have had almost as many patients from Jordan as from our own stake. We have patients RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 637 from all over the county. All of the doctors in the county have had patients in our hospital. People may have any doctor they wish at the hospital, and the doctors charge $5 less when their patients are confined here than at home. Therefdre, we may reduce the rate at the hospital by $5, which would make the total cost of a confinement $35 for board and room for two weeks, besides the doctor's fees. You know that you could not hire a woman in your home to wait upon a sick woman and baby for $35 for two weeks, besides board of two people. We know the General Authorities recommend that we rear families and we are trying to make this possible for our young people, leaving them without excuse. A woman said the other day, "I feel positive my daughter never would have lived if she had been confined at home." We have three babies also that we feel could not have lived in private homes, even with a trained nurse in attendance. These babies were' watched night and day (one nurse in a home could not have done this.) ' They were fed with medicine droppers; the doctors gave up all hope. These three children are now well and thriving. These lives would have been snuffed out, we feel, if it had not been for the special care they received. If we can save one life or more we will feel grateful to the Lord. I feel that our venture is going to be a success, and that it will fill a long-felt need, but it will require continued and 'serious effort on our part. It isn't my place to make recommendations, but in the outlying stakes, I do not see how it would be possible to operate a maternity hospital. I pray that the Lord will bless us, that we may have inspiration to know what is best to be done, and that we may have strength of body and activity of mind to do it. ONEIDA STAKE MATERNITY BED. Mrs.Nellie P. Head, Stake President In December, 1924, the Oneida stake equipped a room for maternity purposes in the home of a practical nurse who maintains five beds of her own. In 1927 we had asked each Relief Society woman to donate $3 during that year for hospital purposes, and this fund we used for the preparation and equipment of the room. We felt just a little anxious about the scheme, so we did not use our wheat interest. We decided to use the money we had collected first, with the understanding that if the experiment should prove to be successful we might enlarge the plan and finance the work with the wheat interest. Our little room opened the last of December, and we have had up to the present time only fifteen patients. Had the nurse depended on this alone it would not have paid expenses, but as she has five other beds, she felt that expenses were fairly well met. The charges are $30 a week per patient. 
 This includes the board, the laundry, the medicine, use of the delivery table, aud everything but the doctor's fee. The regular price of the doctor is $35. Two of our three doctors have reduced the price $10 to all Relief Society members who come to our room for confinement. Our great problem is to convert the mothers to coming to the home to be confined. The equipment of our room was selected by physicians, and is the very best that could be secured. It can all be used in a hospital, in case we establish such an institution in the future. Franklin stake also has a maternity room in the same home. A question was asked regarding patients who cannot afford to pay. In Cottonwood stake they are referred to the County Hospital, where they receive very good care. In Oneida stake, the expense is met by the bishop and the ward Relief Society. Mrs. Mary E. Freeman, president of Shelley stake, reported that last year Blackfoot and Shelley stakes joined with the Red Cross, the county, and the schools in securing a very efficient public health nurse for the county, the Relief Society women donating very liberally to this cause. A great deal of help was received from this nurse and much good was done along the line of examining children and having their defects attended to. The demonstration was so successful that this year the schools have secured a nurse. Mrs. Mayme Laird, of the Idaho Falls stake, reported that the chief difficulty in this stake is in converting patients to go to the hospital. They feel that they would rather remain in their own homes for confinement. The Relief Society has pooled its wheat interest in the stake and is trying to use the money to the best advantage of all concerned. In the Idaho Falls hospital there are sixty-five rooms, and practically all of them have been furnished by the Relief Society organizations in the vicinity. There is a rate in the hospital for a two-bed room, of $42.50 for ten days, and while the doctors there charge $35 for normal cases, they have given the Relief Society a rate of $25, so there is a saving of about $12.50. Most of the people who have wished to go in can well afford to pay the regular rate; only about three patients have asked for the special rate. In such cases, where necessary, the Relief Society has paid the hospital charges, provided the husband would give the $25 to pay the doctor. FUNCTION OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE Miss Elsie Witchen, Demonstration Nurse with the Federal Children's Bureau Maternity and Infancy Division I want to begin by telling you how interested I have been in the discussion this morning and to tell you how thrilled I am at the amount of interest there is in health work in the Relief ae RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 639 Society in Utah. I myself have been working in southern Utah for the last six months and invariably I have found the Relief Societies of infinite help to me in trying to put across my program. Many people have not yet learned to distinguish the difference between the trained nurse and the public health nurse. The reason is because public health work is so new—so new that many of our hospitals are not even taking much notice of it. The difference between the regular trained nurse and the public health nurse is this: the trained nurse is a graduate nurse who has spent three years in training in a hospital, where she has learned to take care of people who are ill; the public health nurse is a hospital graduate nurse who in addition to her hospital training has entered a university where she has spent from four months to a year in learning how to keep people well. One has three years' training, the other has three years' training plus whatever graduate work she has in the university along public health lines. A public health nurse must absolutely be qualified to be a health worker. The salary of a competent public health nurse is not less than $150 per month. Just what are the functions of the public health nurse? One of the functions of the public health nurse is bedside care. Of course the public health nurse cannot go around the country hunting up sick folks—she coud not spread herself out thin enough to cover the whole community in that respect, but in emergency cases it is absolutely part of the public health nurse's duty to give bedside care. She gets a great deal of satisfaction from doing a good piece of bedside care, and it is one of the best means of making friends in her program. Any nurse who goes into a home, as where there is a child sick with pneumonia, and shows the mother how to take care of the child, how to bathe the child, how to ventilate the room, has converted the whole family to her cause. She can do an infinite amount of good not only in taking care of the patient himself, but also in instructing the mother how to properly care for the child. 'We shall consider this the first function. Most of the public health nurse's endeavors, however, must be along educational and preventive lines. In this work she begins with the child, and even before that, with the expectant mother, and her services go on to people one hundred years old. She hunts out expectant mothers, brings information on diet, personal hygiene, exercise and rest. Once the public health nurse has become thoroughly established and people know just what her duties are, they come to her constantly for advice. In rural communities where medical service is not readily obtainable, the nurse goes to the expectant mothers and detects danger signals and persuades the mothers to go to the doctors for care. After the. Baby comes, the nurse is the best adviser the mother has in connection with the care and feeding of the child. If the nurse 
 can convert but one mother from the old hit and miss method of nursing a baby every time it cries, it won't be long before every mother will be hunting up the nurse and asking her what to do so baby will be as well as Mrs. So and So's baby. Many of you know that the pre-school child is left to take care of himself pretty much as he pleases. Very frequently by the time he reaches school age he is full of defects. Why should we waste four years of life between 2 and 6, and allow the child to develop from a nice healthy baby into a sickly school child? The public health nurse should go into the home and help the mother in caring for the pre-school child, so that when he enters schoo] he will have a good sturdy physique. When the public health nurse gets into the school she has a big task ahead of her. It is a peculiar thing that people have an idea that one of the biggest functions of the nurse is the weighing and measuring of the children. That is only one of her duties. The nurse, if she is wise, will interest the teacher and tell her how to detect the most glaring physical defects, so that the teacher can help the nurse in getting the defects corrected. Many of our little school children are laboring under most tremendous handicaps. I have in mind one little boy who was considered stupid, and his nickname was "Clumsy." The county nurse happened along and she suspected that there was something wrong with this child's eyes. She examined his eyes and found he had a very grave eye defect. She recommended that the child be fitted with glasses. The physician recommended that the child be put into a sightsaving class, where he very soon demonstrated that he was anything but a dunce, and after his eyes were fitted with glasses, he no longer stumbled over everything, and that name of "Clumsy" became a thing of the past. Such experiences are common to school nurses. The nurse always works in connection with the physician, as her duty is to inspect, and have the doctor give the physical examination. In the matter of contagious diseases, the people do not always understand the proper method of prevention. The public heaitn nurse can go into a community and in many instances stamp out epidemics after they have started, but it is better yet if she can go into the community when just one or two cases are reported, and can prevent these cases from spreading into a real epidemic, by teaching the mother how to prevent this. The old idea that if Johnnie has the measles, Susie should be put in bed with him so that she would get the measles, too, is all wrong. It is not necessary for anybody to have the measles, whooping cough, scarlet fever, or anything else, if the family knows how to guard other members of the family. If there is a disease in one town, nurses will establish temporary headquarters in that town, inspect the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 641 school children every day, and have those who are affected quarantined. If that sort of work were followed out in a town in many instances the spread of contagious diseases could be prevented. In such cases, the nurse will utilize the school teacher. She will instruct the school teachers in the main symptoms of the communicable disease. If the school teacher knows that the time to exclude the child is when he has a cold and his eyes and nose are running, much contagion could be avoided. If the child has only a cold he will be back in school soon. If it is measles, the other children will not be exposed. The nurse can do much good in group instruction to the mothers and girls of the community, by holding classes in general hygiene and sanitation and care of the sick. You can readily see in a rural community where there are few physicians and no trained nurses, what it means to a mother if she knows just what to do when the children are down with illness. I wish I could tell you off-hand how many people hold certificates in home hygiene and care of the sick given by the Red Cross. It is away up in hundreds of thousands. Think what it means to the country! That type of instruction will be given by any qualified nurse. Another thing which is very important is health conferences and clinics. Throughout the state of Utah, the State Board of Health, through its division of child hygiene, has been holding a series of conferences and they have organized in a great many of the communities, health centers. These conferences are of untold benefit in helping to detect defects in the child. Where there is a public health nurse, she can always cooperate with the state board in helping to plan and bring such conferences to the community, through utilizing the local physicians or bringing in the state workers. In connection with clinics there are two kinds that the nurse can promote—preventive and corrective. Preventive clinics are very helpful in rendering children immune to different types of disease. Clinics for prevention of diphtheria, searlet fever, small pox, and even for prevention of typhoid fever may be held. We have absolutely dependable serums for prevention of these diseases, and public health nurses should include clinics of that kind in their programs. And render children in our communities immune to the scourges of childhood which sometimes cause impaired health in later life. The nurse can form corrective clinics to examine children who need tonsils and adenoids removed, teeth and eyes cared for, but where treatment is necessary, she of course cooperates with the local physicians and dentists. If there are no local physicians or dentists, it is possible to bring in physicians from other communities for work of that kind. There are still other matters with which the nurse might concern herself—community sanitation and health. Any public 
 health nurse makes it part of her business to see that the community is kept as clean as possible from a hygienic standpoint. If. For instance, she finds that the ranchers are dumping refuse from corrals into ditches, and families are using water from the ditches for household purposes, it is part of her duty to talk to the offenders, to get them to see the error of their ways. If they do not reform, the community opinion may be aroused against them and they will mend their ways. There are many things of this kind which the nurse can help to remedy. I have outlined quite a few things that a public health nurse can do, but it would be humanely impossible for any one nurse to include all these items in her yearly program. I believe thoroughly that school nursing should form a great part of every public health nurse's program, but I do not believe that school nursing should be the entire program, because there are so many other things which are equally important. After all, if we want to establish a sound physique the time to begin to establish that sound physique is when life itself begins; therefore the care of expectant mothers and young children should form a large part of the public health nurse's program. Any program should be based on community needs and community wishes. The next question is how is the nurse going to function adequately? Can one nurse covering large counties like we have here in Utah, do a good piece of work if she is working alone? It cannot be done. In order for a nurse to function properly, it is a good thing to have that nurse working with a health committee, representative of the whole community. The doctors, dentists, school board, county commissioners, and civic and religious organizations, and any other community groups that can be interested in the work, should be represented on the committee and should get behind the work of the nurse. A community organized in this way will find that a large amount of work can be accomplished. There is a necessity for such community organization. The Relief Society and Red Cross might in many instances cooperate and carry the work to a point where the entire community understands it and wants it, and then it might be turned over to the county for support. It is just about impossible in a short period of time, two or three years, to get everybody in a community acquainted with what a nurse is trying to do, particularly if that nurse is working alone. That is why we feel that where there is established a public health nurse and program, a joint committee should be responsible for the work and see that it is properly supported.. In arranging to put in a public health nurse, it is necessary to get the cooperation of the county commissioners and leading citizens, so that there will be no antagonistic feeling in the community against her when she comes in to work. The state of Utah RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 643 has no law telling the county commissioners to use funds for the employment of a county nurse, but they can use their health funds for this purpose. Frequently this work is financed by private organizations until the county commissioners wake up to the fact of the benefit, and then they take over the matter of paying the nurse. A competent, well-qualified public health nurse may be secured for $150 per month. AFTERNOON SESSION PRESIDENT CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS We are always happy 'to greet you again after a separation of six months. I believe it is due you, as members and workers in the Relief Society organization, to know just a little of the workings of the organization and what is being done in the diifferent stakes of the Church and in the missions of the Church. Most of our efforts in the past year have been in the line of better health conditions, and the suggestions that have gone out from the General Board have been taken up by the stakes and enlarged on in many stakes. You may be interested to know that we have one Relief Society maternity hospital, and at the officers' meeting this morning, Sister Bagley, president of the Cottonwood stake, reported the difficulties which are encountered in this stake in operating the hospital. Still they have hope and courage and believe that their venture will in the end prove successful. I think I must repeat a remark that Mrs. Bagley made in reporting the work of the hospital. She said, quoting from Shakespeare, "fools rush in where angels fear to tread." That told us a little of the anxiety and worry and work that has been connected with the work so far, of that little ten-bed maternity hospital. It is the only venture of the kind in the organization, and I believe that no matter how much we may desire to follow that stake, we will be a little cautious and study well the conditions surrounding our communities and be pretty sure that we will be able to carry out the financial end of the venture, before making a beginning. We had this morning some reports of work being done in different stakes of the Church by public health nurses, and we feel to continue to urge the stakes to cooperate with the agencies in the counties where they are located and endeavor to support public - health nurses. We feel that if our organizations will attempt that sort of a venture, they will find great good resulting from it and less anxiety and expense than would be connected with other ventures in the nature of maternity beds and hospitals., There is great progress in the world along the lines of health and welfare of women and children, and we feel that as mothers— the mothers of the Church, we want to be in the forefront of any 
 activities which have to do with the betterment of the health or our women and our children, and we know that you are busy studying the pamphlets from the government, that you are looking through the magazines for the newest things in regard to maternity and child care. We say to you, dear sisters, that the Lord will bless you in your endeavors, that he will help you. When, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Word of Wisdom was given to the Latter-day Saints, the Lord knew what was proper for his people and you all know that the principles inculcated in that Word of Wisdom are principles which are being adopted by the world in order that people may enjoy better health and better living conditions, and we ought to realize and be thankful that through the inspiration of our heavenly Father, we were the first to receive instructions along that line, and we ought to be able to faithfully carry out these instructions. The Relief Society, as far as we are able to learn, is in a flourishing condition. It is growing. Interest is being maintained throughout the Church. Younger women and young mothers are becoming interested in the work, and they are beginning to realize that through this organization they will be able to be better mothers and to take better care of their children. We commend any efforts which will bring into the organization those whom we most want to assist. We have even recommended that we mothers and grandmothers who have reared our children and probably are helping to rear our grandchildren, can very well stay at home and take care of little ones while the young mothers go to Relief Society meetings and get that which will benefit them in carrying on the work in their own homes. I believe that there is love and harmony existing throughout the Relief Society organization, that there is more loyalty to the organization and more loyalty among members than there has ever been. I believe that the petty things that sometimes worry and annoy us are being forgotten in the big things that face us, and if we can but believe that our little troubles are of naught compared to the advancement of the community in which we live, we will have done a big thing. The members of the General Board are united. They love one another. They are endeavoring with all their might to fulfil the great obligation which has been placed upon them by the presiding authorities of the Church. They visit you yearly. We have already now visited more than half the stakes in the Church in connection with the other auxiliary organizations, and the reports that are brought back to the board of the work, and of the efforts that you are making to advance the women in your communities are very encouraging; and we feel to say to you, dear sisters, that inasmuch as you are prayerful and humble RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 645 and endeavor to have the Spirit of the Lord with you in the carrying on of your work, you will be blessed. We would feel, too, to say to you that if you are not in harmony with your stake officers, if you are not in harmony with your ward officers, if officers are not in harmony with one another, it is incumbent on you to get the right spirit and be in harmony, and our heavenly Father will bless you and grant your prayers if you approach him in love and humility. I cannot conceive of anything grander than this great body of sixty thousand women all looking towards the same goal, all upholding and sustaining one another, all working for the betterment of the communities in which they live.
Two weeks ago I had the privilege of visiting the national parks of the state, that is, Zion National Park, and Bryce, and the rim of the Grand Canyon, and on that visit Brother Williams and I had the extreme pleasure of talking with many tourists from other states. I was very much interested in talking with a gentleman and his wife—a very noted man who is a photographer and who travels through the country taking pictures for the National Geographic Magazine, and other noted magazines. In our conversation it came out about the Relief Society, and he said, "Why, Mrs. Williams, isn't that strange, I first heard about the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church in Panama!" Another noted person, a lawyer, on that same occasion, said, "I have heard much that is detrimental to the 'Mormon' Church, but I have never heard anything but the highest praise for the women who are working in the 'Mormon' Relief Society." Now let us be worthy of these words of commendation, and let us so live that our light will shine throughout the world.
During the past six months there have been some changes in the Relief Society organizations: Benson stake, reorganized July 26, 1925, Mrs. Lucy M. Funk, released, Mrs. Effie A. Green, appointed president; Yellowstone stake, reorganized July 19, 1925, Mrs. Annie S. Kerr, released, Mrs. Lucy P. Lloyd, appointed president; Moapa stake, reorganized August 30, 1925. Mrs. Lois E. Jones appointed president to succeed Mrs. Ellen Gentry, who passed away in May of this year; Garfield stake, reorganized August 30, 1925, Mrs. Sarah S. Larsen released, Mrs. Irene N. Rowan appointed president; Eastern States mission, reorganized September 13, 1925, Miss Pearl Snow released, Miss Luella B. Owen appointed president; Liberty stake, reorganized September 24, 1925, Mrs. Myrtle B. Shurtliff released, Mrs. Hazel Greenwood appointed president; Hyrum stake, reorganized September, 1925, Mrs. Louisa H. Allen released, Mrs. Susannah Nielsen appointed president.
Our thanks and appreciation is extended to the officers who have retired from their positions, but we hope that wherever they are located, they will always have the interest of the Relief Society work at heart, and that they will assist in the work. To the new officers, we will say that we hope your efforts will be blessed as were those of the officers who preceded you. We say to the members to help your officers with your love and faith and prayers that they may be instruments in the hands of their heavenly Father in carrying on the work to its full fruition.
(In introducing Bishop Cannon, President Williams said: "We are delighted to present to you our new Presiding Bishop. As you all know, we are directly the wards of the bishop, and we are very proud of our affiliation with the Presiding Bishopric, and of our close cooperation with them in doing the work which we are endeavoring to do, and we trust that you are all under the direct care and guardianship of your bishops. Sometimes I think if you don't get all the support you need, it is because you do not know how to be tactful enough with your bishops. Now we want to be very tactful with this new Presiding Bishopric, so that we can get all the support we shall need in our work.")
SYLVESTER Q. CANNON Presiding Bishop of the Church
I want to reciprocate in the beginning, the expression made by President Williams. I certainly appreciate the opportunity of being associated with the presidency and General Board of the Relief Society; and so far as being able to get what you want, I have never seen it fail, when women, set out to get anything, they usually get it.
When President Williams addressed you as brothers and sisters, I thought I ought to address you as sisters and brothers, because there are very few brethren here, and besides, I think the sisters are entitled to the courtesy of being addressed first. I know the usual expression of brothers and sisters does not intend any discourtesy to the sisters and, of course, in a sense, as the brethren hold the Priesthood, they should be addressed first.
I feel honored in being with you this afternoon and seeing this splendid gathering of many of the leading women of this Church—the women upon whom devolves the responsibility of the growth and development and progress of this wonderful work of the Relief Society organization. I know you know so much more about life and living than I do, that I feel abashed in speaking to you.
I came here to hear a recital of the work being accomplished by the Society. I feel that women know much more about life than I do. A woman brought me here. Women trained me in my youth and throughout my early life, It is true my mother passed away while I was small, but I had a very loving older sister and a fine housekeeper who gave me the most careful training and consideration. Then, as I grew to manhood, I took upon myself the covenant of marriage, and I am sure that every man will acknowledge the fact that while he is supposedly the head of the house, he knows where to go to get his instructions. I am reminded of a story that is told of a woman, known as Mrs. Suffragist, who was being examined for an insurance policy. The insurance doctor said, "Mrs. Suffragist, do you have any insanity in the family?" She said, "No. But my husband occasionally thinks he is head of the house." That is a mild form of mental aberrations that husbands sometimes have.
So I feel timid in speaking before women rich in life's experience. I realize the responsibility that rests upon you. I appreciate the work you do, in a measure. I have been associated in the presidency of one of the stakes of Zion for twenty-one years, and realize how much work is done by the Relief Society presidency and stake board, and through them and through their organization by the ward presidents and workers. It covers such a broad field and yet it is such a field of specialization!
I would like to read to you just a word that Arthur Brisbane records in one of his columns that he writes in the Deseret News and other papers, that expresses so wonderfully the work and accomplishments of women: "The beating heart of women ended cannibalism and slavery. It will in time end poverty and human misery." It is a very remarkable statement, but I believe it is absolutely true.
I realize the fact that the Relief Society is developing and specializing in the way of social welfare work and other lines of activity that are very commendable. Some time ago, before the change in the Presiding Bishopric, Bishop Nibley and counselors invited the stake presidents of all the stakes in the Church, to come into the office and discuss social welfare and organization of social welfare throughout the stakes of the Church, and this gathering was representative of the stakes throughout the Church. One of the conclusions at that time was that, while, of course, the bishop is responsible for the distribution of charity as far as the funds of the Church are concerned in the various wards, it is his business and his privilege to consult with the Relief Society officers, to invite them to meet with him and his counselors once a month at least, and discuss with them problems of charity and social welfare; that it is his privilege and that he should turn over to the Relief Society, in large measure, the handling of cases of social welfare in the various wards, because the Relief Society can give more careful attention. Women are possessed of greater sympathy and in many respects of greater discernment than men, and will give more time and more study to the conditions of various families, not only for their physical relief but also for their development and their training. The matter of social welfare is largely a matter that women, with their large sympathy and their keenness of understanding can carry out more effectively than can men, and especially when they have had careful training coupled with experience and the spirit of the Relief Society to guide them. I believe this work is being undertaken on that basis in all the stakes of the Church.
There should be the greatest cooperation between the bishop of the ward and the president of the Relief Society. The bishop of the ward should turn over to the Relief Society problems for investigation and recommendation as to what should be done in individual cases. The General Board has recently given a course in social welfare work. We would be very much delighted if it could be arranged so that in all of the stakes throughout the Church the women could get such training, so that they would be prepared to investigate and determine the real needs of families and individuals in distress.
We would rejoice if all our people could be put on a basis where they could develop and increase in happiness and peace and prosperity. That is part of our mission here. This Church is the one Church in all the world which has in mind the welfare of its members temporally as well as spiritually. The Lord has revealed to us that our temporal development is important because it enables us to live more completely and fully and to serve him more faithfully. It is true on the other hand that prosperity is often a curse rather than a blessing; that is a thing we must guard against. People who have been prospered should be encouraged to realize the source of their blessing, and should give of their time for the welfare of the work of God, that they thereby may become a blessing.
Another matter we are interested in is the matter of maternity welfare. A mother is entitled to every consideration and her welfare and protection and health is of the utmost importance to the welfare and happiness of the family. If a mother has to sacrifice her health for want of things she ought to have, something is lacking. This needs consideration, and provision should be made in every locality so that mothers can receive such attention as is necessary and important for their well-being. And so, in some instances as has been suggested here, maternity hospitals have been established or are being considered.
We are interested also in the matter of community nurses, and in the providing of ways and means whereby they can advise and visit homes to give such service as is necessary without extreme expense to those in moderate circumstances. I commend to you and all officers of the Relief Society throughout the Church, the importance of this measure—this matter of proper training and proper nursing, so that people in all the localities of the Church may get proper consideration and attention.
Mr. A. W. McMillen, who has been here on Red Cross work, called this morning at my office and expressed appreciation and pleasure for the wonderful work being done by the Relief Society. He said, "We realize today that one of the greatest problems in the matter of welfare is in the rural districts," and he said, "I believe the Relief Society of the 'Mormon' Church is in a position to do, and is doing more good in that respect than any other organization that I know of."
I pray the Lord to bless you in your labors, and I am sure that through your efforts much good will be accomplished, and that you will be a very potent means in the country in solving the problem of poverty and misery. May we work together to this end. And strive to build up faith and righteousness in the hearts of our boys and girls.
PALESTINE—PAST AND PRESENT Miss Alice L. Reynolds, Member of General Board
A series of articles will be published in the magazine on Palestine that will include all that was said in the address.
COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT
My heart is full of gratitude for the blessings of this day. I am grateful for the privilege of being a member among you. I am thankful that we have been privileged to have a member of our board visit the Holy Land and bring a personal message from that land of long ago. I am thankful to my heavenly Father for the preservation of this wonderful book, the Bible, that the things of life that are important to us can be found within its covers.
Four hundred years ago this year, 1925, the first edition of the Tyndale Bible was published. In those days it was chained to the pulpit and only the privileged few were allowed to read it. But we are wonderfully blessed in that we have free access to this wonderful and sacred book; and, of course, the little personal touch that we have had this afternoon of the life and people of the past, adds to our joy and appreciation.
In the Bible we have promises that signs shall follow the believer and those who serve the Lord, and I believe that I have been the recipient of many of these signs, even to the speaking in tongues. I want to tell you of just a little instance that came to me when I was a young girl, attending the Mutual Improvement Association. Our president on one occasion was inspired with the gift of tongues, and in it she said there were girls in the audience who would yet be sent to the nations of the world to preach the gospel. And I looked at a little fair-headed child upon her mother's lap, and I said, "It will be in the day when that little child is grown up, because surely it will not come to pass in my day." But out of that very association five girls went to Europe to preach the gospel, and it happened that Sister Inez Knight Allen and myself were the two first called.
I had presented to me a Bible when I landed in the mission field, by a very dear friend, and within its covers was written the following lines:
Last eve I passed before a blacksmith's door, And heard the anvil ring the vespers chime. Then, looking in, I saw upon the floor Old hammers, worn with beating years of time. "How many anvils have you had?" said I, "To wear and batter all these hammers so?" "Just one," said he, then said, with twinkling eye, "The anvils wear the hammers out, you know."
And so, I thought, the anvil of God's word, For ages, skeptic blows have beat upon, Yet, though the noise of falling blows is heard, The anvil is unharmed—the hammers gone.
—Selected.
May we ever cling to the anvil of God's word is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen.
COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON
At the close of this profitable and notable conference, it would be well for each of us to consider what has been the special benefit to us. I cannot help but contrast the conditions of the women of Zion with those of the women of the old world, as portrayed by Miss Reynolds, and I am truly thankful for the privileges and blessings of the gospel, and for the faith which comes with it.
I am sure each one of us here could bear a beautiful testimony of the healing of some members of our family, but do we have that faith sufficient in our lives to keep us from complaining. It is that faith that makes us equal to things that are almost impossible to bear, it is faith that brings that peace to us that the Psalmist certainly had when he said, "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want."
In a farming community in one of the stakes of Zion the crops were greatly in need of rain, and the stake president, being a man of faith, called his people together and they prayed for rain, the stake president promising the people that they should have rain. One of the brethren who was there and had participated in this beautiful service, and who would have testified that he knew God lived, left the meetinghouse, scanned the sky, and said, "It looks as if there is a long drouth ahead of us." He shattered his faith, for faith and doubt cannot dwell in the same person at the same time. James tells us, "Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering: for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed." He who wavereth need not expect a blessing from the Lord.
We sing, "When the earth begins to tremble, bid our fearful thoughts be still." I feel thankful that it is possible for us to have that faith that will hold us when the earth does begin to tremble, and I believe that we can have it if each day of our lives we bid our fearful thoughts be still when meeting the small problems of life. I feel also that we will not have that great blessing when the earth does begin to tremble if we have not exercised our faith before that time.
It is required that each person do his best, and all of his best, for only the very best is enough in the service of God. You remember the situation of Moses, who had left his home and sacrificed his comfort that he might serve the children of Israel. He met his problem on the banks of the sea and, as far as human possibilities are concerned, they, the children of Israel could not walk over the sea, but Moses had faith in God and he shouted to his people, "Stand still, and see the salvation of God."
I heard of a man who gave a good deal of service in the Church, and one of his brothers who was interested more in worldly things said to him, "How can you afford to give so much time, Aren't you afraid you won't have sufficient in your old age if you give so much time." The man answered: "I have an individual fortune. I have been given a note—a promissory note, and this note reads: 'Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land and verily thou shalt be fed.'"
Have we the faith to do our very best and trust in the Lord? I pray that our Father in heaven may help us to appreciate this wonderful and glorious faith that is given to us, that we may so live that the promise of the Lord may be fulfilled.
MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN bore her testimony of the divinity of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the manifold blessings resulting from faith in the gospel. The conference was then adjourned.