Mother-in-Law Edith Lovell GRACE found the timetable on a rainy Sunday afternoon. Beth had put on her coat and tied a scarf around her bright hair, and Grace had almost said, "Don't go out in the rain, Beth; you'll catch cold!" Almost. She remembered in time that it would sound mother-in-lawish, and held her tongue. Beth went out in the rain and turned south toward the path over the slope at the end of the street. Grace picked up the book Beth had been reading and a folder fell out of it. It was a railroad timetable. Grace stared at it silently and realized what it meant. It meant Beth was going to leave her and go back to her aunt in Texas. It meant that Beth couldn't stand it here any longer. It meant that Grace had failed as a mother-in-law. She had tried so hard! She had come to love Beth deeply. Where had she failed? What had she done? Grace could remember every detail of that crisp fall day when Beth had arrived. Ae ?? "Well, all dressed up to impress your new daughter-in-law!" Bill Johnson teased Grace, as she hurried into the little station. Grace smiled nervously and smoothed her new gloves. "How soon will the train be in?" she asked. "Any minute now," said Bill. "Yep, here she comes." Grace looked quickly to see if her stocking seams were straight. She hoped she looked all right. How Page 92 should a mother-in-law act? Mother-in-Jaw is such an alien word! She did want Tommy's wife to like her. Tommy had written, "... $0 I'm sending Beth to you. There's no use of you both living alone. You'll be less lonesome together, and Beth hasn't any folks at all except her aunt and uncle here in Texas. She'll be the daughter you've always wanted. Take good care of her for me, will you, Mom?" The train wheezed to a stop. Watching the steps, Grace thought, Let's see, I musn't be bossy, or prying, or critical. Then Beth stepped off the train. She was tall. Poised. She wore a brown suit and a brown felt hat. She looked around an instant and then walked quickly to Grace. "You're Tommy's mother," she said. "Hello, my dear," said Grace. She put her arms around the girl and kissed her. Beth's skin was fresh and sweet; Grace felt a surge of warmth in her heart. They smiled at each other, and then, because there was so much to say, Grace couldn't think of a thing. "The car is out this way," she said, feebly, and picked up one of the suitcases. Beth picked up the other and they went to the car. "You must be hungry," said Grace. "It's almost noon." She drove downtown to Weston's best cafe. At the cafe, Grace's shyness subsided. They ordered. MOTHER-IN-LAW 93 "Now tell me about Tommy" Grace said. "He's fine/' said Beth. "Or he was when he left. He doesn't know where he's going, of course, but I guess it'll be overseas." She looked steadily at Grace. "I have expected that/' said Grace quietly. "He's a grand guy/' Beth's voice was husky. "We?I?" she stopped and then tried again. "You must be proud of him." "I am/" said Grace. She felt that she must say something to make Beth know she was welcome. "I want you to know how glad I am you came here to stay with me" she said. It sounded like a speech, and Grace hadn't meant it that way at all. "Thank you? said Beth. When they were in the car again, Grace said suddenly, "Oh, your trunk. I forgot about it. Shall we go back and pick it up? If it isn't too big, I think it would go on the luggage rack." ?I? there isn't any trunk," said Beth. "Just my suitcases." "Oh," said Grace. She wished she hadn't mentioned it. She didn't care whether Beth had one piece of luggage or twenty; she was only trying to be thoughtful. I'll be more careful, she vowed mentally. I won't pry. So at home she showed Beth to Tommy's room, which was to be hers, and then left her. She fussed around making a chocolate cake, fixing the roast which she had bought for the occasion. Her mind raced ahead to the days when she and Beth would not be strangers. Beth was a lovely girl?exactly the way you would want a daughter to be. Oh, they could make quilts and linens for her, against the day when Tommy would come back and they would want a home of their own. Grace was clever with a needle; she had often thought how much she would enjoy teaching a daughter to sew. She was glad Beth had no hope-chest. Judiciously, Grace decided not to mention sewing until they knew each other better. Grace set the table with her best cloth, a linen one with cutwork embroidery. She used her silver candlesticks with fat red candles in them, and the flames danced on the surface of the shining dishes. The dinner was perfect. Beth fingered the lovely linen cloth in appreciation. They talked of Tommy. Beth told of his training hours at the airbase, of the other couples who were their friends, and of their picnics and Saturday night dances. Grace listened hungrily, for Tommy had not been home for over a year. After supper, Beth insisted on washing the dishes. Wiping them, Grace blessed the bond that bound her to Beth. THEY fell into a pleasant routine. Grace would cook breakfast and they would eat together. Then Grace would go to her job at the library, while Beth did the housework. She kept the house spic and span. She always had supper ready when Grace came home; her cooking was plain, but tasty. Grace found herself wondering about Beth's childhood, and how she had been brought up. Beth never mentioned her home in Texas.. When a letter came for her, Beth said, "From my aunt, where I lived." That was all. Grace scrupulously avoided all mention of Beth's former life; she didn't want to pry. Beth was neat, and quiet; she had an undefinable air of gentle breeding about her. Grace tried to be careful about pressing her clothes; she had her hair set every Saturday morning?she didn't want Beth to think she was slovenly. But there was a wall of reserve between them. They were too polite, Grace thought. Yet, being a mother-in-law, how could she be otherwise? There were nights when Grace could hear Beth move restlessly about her room, and mornings when Beth's eyes would be swollen and red from crying. Several times when Grace had heard Beth's restless footsteps, she had gotten out of bed to go to her. Then she would look down at her old-fashioned outing flannel nightgown and decide against it. Maybe Beth would think she was nosey. Besides, her nightgown looked so backcountry. And then there was the baby that was coming. Grace had guessed it almost at once. She said nothing, and waited expectantly for the time when Beth would tell her. Oh, it would be such fun to make baby things, and to take care of a baby again! But Beth said nothing, even when her condition became apparent. Grace knew that Beth should go to a doctor, but how could she suggest it? That would be interfering! Grace remembered how she and her own mother had planned for Tommy, and how close was the bond between them as they sat together and made tiny nightgowns. But Beth was remote, and Grace dared not intrude into her silence. GRACE looked again at the timetable. If Beth left now, there would never again be an opportunity for Grace to win her friendship. That precious grandbaby would be born in Texas, and Grace wouldn't see it for years. A feeling of urgency shook her. She thrust on her galoshes and coat and hat, and hurried out of the house into the rain. Walking toward the hilly path at the end of the street, Grace's thoughts cleared. Beth had walked this way alone many times. Maybe she liked to be alone. Maybe she didn't like living in the same house with her mother-in-law. Maybe she would like a little apartment. Humbly, Grace decided she would ask Beth why she didn't like it in Weston, and what could be done to make her happier. More picture shows? Some new books? Invite more young people in? An apartment? At first the path was steep, and then it veered off into a gully where aspen trees grew thick. It was there that Grace found Beth, crumpled up beside a fallen tree. Her clothes were soaked with rain, and she was crying. "Beth," Grace cried sharply. "Beth, are you hurt?" "N-no," said Beth. "I slipped and fell. Twisted my ankle a little, but I'm all right. It's nothing." But sobs shook her shoulders. Her tears mingled with the rain streaking down her cheeks, and the eyes that she raised to Grace's showed a stark aloneness that clutched at Grace's heart. Relief that Beth was not hurt flooded her, and anger, too, that the girl had gone walking in the rain. "Beth, get up! Your clothes are soaked, and you'll have pneumonia. Why, you ought to know better, in your eagerness to take such chances!"
Aglaia, Grace heard her own voice, scolding. Hot tears blinded her. She put her arms around Beth to help her to her feet.
"Oh, you'll get muddy," Beth protested. Shocked, Grace thought, Why she thinks I care more for my clothes than I do for her!"
Grace's voice trembled with horror, not emotion.
"Muddy? Beth, I'd die if anything happened to you. I love you as much as I do Timmy. You?you're my daughter!"
Beth raised her head in surprise. "Oh," she said brokenly. "You do care, don't you!"
She began to cry again. Grace put her arm around her and helped her limp home.
Grace put Beth to bed in one of the big outing flannel nightgowns. She put a hot-water bottle at her feet and brought her a glass of hot milk. They both cried a while, and their tears washed away the wall between them.
After a while Beth began to talk. "I wanted to tell you about the babe, but I was afraid maybe you'd think I was?just someone for you
to wait on." She drew a deep breath. "Your clothes, and your house, and everything is so?so perfect?and I don't know how to sew, or anything."
Her eyes pleaded for understanding. Grace was appalled. All those months when she had been so careful of outside appearances, she had been driving Beth farther from her. Because she had kept herself from asking questions and making suggestions, Beth had thought that she wasn't interested?that she preferred to remain a stranger! Oh, she hadn't been a mother-in-law, but she hadn't been a mother either! Grace had made a discovery. Mothers-in-law are meddlesome because they do care, not because they don't.
Beth was talking again. "Aunt Lydia was good to me, but she was always so busy. I helped with the housework, and she did all the sewing. Then we ran so short of money, so after high school, I worked at the laundry to help out. Then I met Tommy. It didn't seem possible for him to love me; he's so wonderful, and I'm so?ordinary."
"You suit me exactly," said Grace firmly.
After a while Grace went out and found the timetable and put it in the kitchen fire.