SONG FOR A KITCHEN Miranda Snow Walton There are homes without a bedroom, where davenettes suffice, There are homes where parlors play no leading part; There are homes that have no dining room, no pantry, nor a bath, But the home without a kitchen is a home without a heart. It's a sort of filling station for a boy of nine or ten; It's the family trysting place with apple pie; And the smell of hot, brown gingerbread upon a frosty night Is a memory you'll cherish 'till you die. It's the room where you'll find mother, where little folks can come To tell their troubles, and have broken hearts made whole; Oh, a house can be most anything, a mansion or a shack, But the home without a kitchen is a home Without a soul. Forward, Without Fear Dorothy Chpp Robinson CHAPTER 7 AGAIN Ann Kristin was out following the trail of the sheep. She was a long way from camp, and alone, and because of that the sack she carried was nearly full. She was glad to get away from the others. There were so many new people in camp, and so much happiness. Newcomers were hunting relatives and friends. Letters were being read and discussed. Women, the more fortunate ones, were bargaining eagerly for new foods to relieve the monotony of their diets. Patty Lou was still going around in a daze trying to be with Jake and her family at the same time. There had been a happy gathering in the Mortensen dooryard the evening before. Around the campfire, while the Turners ate, a story had been told and retold. "How did you come? How did you know where to come? Who told you where to find me?" "Jake did," Jinny, a younger sister, had answered, "and you-all are even prettier than he said." Her letter had been months reaching them. After his first unreasoning anger at the thing that had taken his daughter away, Mr. Turner had fallen to wondering. He suspected she had no intention of returning home. It had taken him some time to arrange the transfer of money to her, then he had begun to investigate. He was curious about Page 98 the power that could keep a girl like her among strangers. "So," the story had ended, "we came on to Nauvoo. Everything we own is in these three wagons. Brother Matthew Lewis baptized us the same time he did Jake." Patty Lou turned slowly to face Jake who sat beside her. Her eyes filled with tears of happiness. Jake, frightened by them and the solemnity, tried to grin. "You-all ready to quit being cagey and marry me?" "Jake Nichols. You are blind as a badger. I've been counting on it right along." "Will you-all mind?" "I love doing what pleases you." "Make her give a definite promise," Mr. Turner advised, and the others smiled their agreement with him. "I am not inferring this time," the girl turned serious. "I am so happy with the way the Lord has blessed me, I will do anything to show him." Forgetting the presence of the others, Jake answered, "Oh, Patty Lou, you good-for-nothing Honey Chile. I been waiting for this moment all my life, and that's a right smart spell." Nestling one hand in his, the girl gave her father the other. Looking about to include them all she said simply, "You are my family." Niels' eyes had said the same thing to Helga. Little Anna had awakened, and she passed from her father FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR 99 to Helga and back again many times. Niels had a wagon and ox team now, and a cow he had lead all the way from Nauvoo. Being a property owner had given a new proud lift to his shoulders. Only Ann Kristin was alone. So very much alone, she told herself as she picked snags of wool from the brush. Matt Lewis had come in with the wagon train but she had not seen him. For all she knew he might have brought a wife with him. Even so, she was deeply affected by what the Turners had said of him. He was a true son of his father. There would never be any doubt of his integrity, nor of his devotion to the cause. The girl who married him would be lead inevitably into the celestial kingdom. Perhaps he wasn't married, but would go on tomorrow with the freight. He was working with Jake between the settlements and Fort Bridger. SUDDENLY Ann Kristin realized she was miles from camp. In all directions there was nothing but hot sky and brown prairie. A tremor of apprehension went through her. There might be Indians lurking near. She had been following a dry water course, now she walked to the top of a short rise and looked about. To the southwest a spiral of dust was rising as if in warning. She dropped abruptly to the ground and watched from behind the brush. She would have to crawl back down and find a hiding place?if there was a hiding place. It was a single horseman, and as she watched her fear vanished. It was a white man. Probably a scout, or some one following the sheep, for he seemed to be looking for some one. Several times he rose in the stirrups and looked about. Ann Kristin rose and waved. Instantly the rider saw and came galloping toward her. It was Matt Lewis. He stropped his horse and sprang to the ground. "What do you mean coming out here alone?" he demanded. "Don't you know there are Indians? You might get lost." "Is that what you came out here to tell me?" "Someone had to tell you." "If you came out here to quarrel-." "Who's quarreling? You?." They both stopped abruptly. He lifted his hat and ran his finger through his damp hair. It was the same hat he had worn the first time she had seen him. "You are thin," he said unexpectedly. "Why shouldn't I be? We walked from Montrose. Your mother helped haul our things. We were fortunate not to have to carry them." "Next time there will be room to ride. I have a wagon and team of my own now. Jake and I are hauling freight." "Yes, I know. Jake told us." For the life of her she could think of nothing else to say. Her torn faded dress, her worn shoes, the bag of greasy wool embarrassed her. She was holding on to the bag with her bad hand. It was no longer withered but it would always be a little stiff. "Did you??" she began, "No," he read her thought, "but it is no longer important. I found out all I needed to know." He had been holding the bridle reins. Now he looped them over his arm. His gaze wandered a moment as if he were searching for words. '1 found your money box/ he said, abruptly. "You found it!" He nodded. "Not the money, naturally. One of the saints had bought it from Bedloe. It was a good strong box and evidently he could not resist the price it would bring. How he got it off the boat we probably will never know, nor how they managed to open the trunk without arousing suspicion. We knew it was yours by the initials of your father carved on the inside. Jake and I visited Wilkins. We made sure he did not see us coming this time. Under pressure he confessed. Bedloe was the leader of an organized band of thieves. Some of them, like himself, posed as saints to more easily win the confidence of the unsuspecting immigrants. But we did not find Bedloe." Then Ann Kristin knew, too, that the affair was no longer important. What was important was her changed attitude, her increased strength. The sudden knowledge that men like Matthew Lewis could always be trusted. She could touch suspicion and still know faith, one could accept trials and still know peace. She could be friends with Matt. "You know now that I signed the paper innocently?" Instead of answering Matt looked at her. His gray eyes were reddened by wind and sun. Dust lay a hard veneer over his features, but the hardness of distrust was gone. He spoke simply. "T have always loved you, Ann Kristin, from that first moment on the wharf." Color drained from her face. She let the wool fall. He stepped closer. "Could you?I'm not polished like Bedloe, I have nothing to offer you." "You have everything," she raised her eyes to him and wondered at her own temerity. "You have the Priesthood, heritage, honor, and a great kindness. Perhaps with you. Matt, I could forget the selfishness of my past." With a whoop of joy he caught her up and swung her about as he had his mother. Then he set her down abruptly and almost timidly took her in his arms. Later, from the pocket of his faded flannel shirt he took a small object wrapped in buckskin. "Mother's ring," she cried out and reached for it. "Where did you find it?" With one hand he held her back. His grin reminded her of the day she had seen him teasing his mother. "This is mine. I got it from Wilkins the same night he took it from you. I gave him five dollars and defied him to refuse to sell. I think he knew then I was suspicious. He didn't dare squawk." "Oh, my dear, as scarce as money was?and you have kept it all this time." "I knew this hour would come. I had to know it." He slipped the ring on her finger and then held her hand in both of his. She looked at the ring and tears brightened her eyes. "All our lovely things are gone. Except this." "But you have something much better. Strength and fortitude, and understanding." His compliment was so similar to hers she started to laugh. His smile FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR 101 widened and then they were both laughing. Quick spontaneous laughter that brought back the lines of youth to their faces. He tied the wool on the saddle and they walked back to camp, savoring the minutes together. There was so much to talk about and their hands kept touching. "We will be married tomorrow' he said at length. "Mother will be very happy. She sent me to find you. You can stay with her until we get settled, or would you rather be with Helga?" "With your mother, then you can be with both of us between trips." "I am not sure how long the trips will last. Much depends on what the body of the Church does. We can't settle here permanently. The saints are leaving Nauvoo and vicinity as fast as they can dispose of their property, and get wagons or carts to haul their few belongings. All must be gone by spring. Those in power have decreed it, which makes it much harder to sell anything. Especially land. Now Iowa, Nebraska, and Missouri are petitioning the Federal Government at Washington to refuse us permission to settle within the confines of their boundaries." "But where can we go?" "Brother Young is asking permission to settle in the Far West. That would entail much planning and more suffering. If there is a place of rest we will find it. I hope it will be next year. Take mother, for example. It is seven years since she gave up her home. In all that time she hasn't really been settled." "BUT the trouble of the saints was soon forgotten. They talked as young people in all ages have talked. The past was forgotten and the future was not yet upon them. Only the present was theirs. So short a present. A mile from camp two men came riding hard out of the west. Matt stopped and his hand went to his gun. Even when he saw they were white men he did not relax. "What news?" he asked as they pulled in their lathering horses. "Plenty. Brother Young is behind us. He wants to meet all the men." They were off again, and now the future was upon Ann Kristin and Matthew. The old sickening apprehension swept over her. His lips closed to a hard straight line, and his steps quickened. As they entered camp, they saw the buggy approaching. They stopped until it passed. Brother Young and two other men were in it. "Go on," Ann Kristin told him. "I?ll take the wool home. You can tell me later." Without a word he hurried away. Holding to the bridle reins she led the horse past tents, shanties, and wagons. Before her own home she tied the horse to a wagon wheel and removed the wool and saddle. There was no one around. Even the Turners were gone, except Jinny and she soon left. "Why don't you-all come to the meetin"?" she asked. "Everybody is goin'." Ann Kristin refused. She felt the necessity of fortifying herself for Matt's return. If the news were bad ?but she closed her mind to it. Perhaps the meeting meant they could settle in the Rocky Mountains, or even stay here. That would be wonerful, She took up her knitting, but as time passed her fingers moved faster and faster. Surely, surely, the Lord would not try them longer, but why didn't Matt come, or Hel-ga, or some one? When she could stand the suspense no longer she got up and moved about. She was too tired to walk. Succumbing to a sudden whim she decided to dress up and go to the meeting. From a trunk she took the dress she had worn the day she left the River Maid. The one that had made her appear "over-decorated." She had not worn it since that day. She shook it out and ran a cold flatiron over it. The shoes were there, too, and the hat. She arranged her hair as it had been. When she had finished she surveyed herself in the small mirror she had. What she saw was not too reassuring, but such things as wrinkles and coarse rough hands were minor annoyances. Remembrance and expectation supplied what poverty and primitive conditions failed to grant. The transformation was complete even to the ring on her finger. For a moment she looked at it, then raised it to her lips and kissed it softly. Gathering her skirt in both hands she started for the meeting. "Kristie." "Oh," she dropped her skirt. Matt was standing in the doorway. His eyes lighted at the bridal picture before him, but love could not entirely erase the bleakness from his eyes. She moved quickly to him. His smile faded. "Is it a mob or an order?or do we stay here?" she asked breathlessly- "Neither. It is war. War with Mexico." "But what has that to do with us? Surely after the way we have been refused homes?." "the Government would not expect us to help protect others' homes? Yes, it expects just that, and it is our country, Kristin. Brother Young is here with an army man to get recruits. Jake and Ezra have volunteered." "But?but we are to be married. We have been unhappy so long." Matt stepped inside. He put his arms about her shoulders and drew her close. He tilted her chin so their eyes met. Her hat fell off but neither noticed. "Let me explain, dear." "Yes?but, oh Matt, not now. Not when you have work and?." "I must go. Try to understand. An older man, Niels perhaps, can do my freighting. The army pays seven dollars a month for privates, besides the clothes issued. I was a top sergeant in the Nauvoo Legion. I am hoping Captain Allen will give me a rating. If I go, other young men will go." "How many do they want?" "Five hundred. Think what seven dollars a month coming to five hundred of our homes could mean." "But war! Life is ours now. You can't throw it away now. War is brutal and savage. There are Indians, and Mexico, where is Mexico? Matt, I may never see you again." "Yes, it may even mean that. Even so, we have nothing to fear. The future is all ours." "I want the present. Matt, don't go. Don't ask me for another sacrifice." "Where is your strength, your faith?" FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR 103 "1 haven't any strength. I haven't any faith. I don't want any. I want you." For a long minute he held her close trying to still the trembling of her body, but he said nothing. She laid her face against the rough cloth of his shirt. When she raised her eyes to him, the youth and gaiety were gone from them, "I am all right now/' she said quietly. "When do you go?" "Tonight. Now." 'Tonight?" "We must be in Council Bluffs by the sixteenth. It will take hard marching to reach there by then." "And the others?" "Niels and Helga, Jake and Patty Lou are being married by Brother Young. They wanted to send for you, but I wanted these few minutes with you alone.". -But-but-." "There is no time for that for us." He took her hand and slipped the ring from her finger. Then he put it back. "Our lives are like this ring. They are not to be lived in a straight line from one year to another, but in a circle, from eternity to eternity. There is no end to them, so we shall never be apart, not days, nor deserts, nor Indians can separate us for long. 1 will be back." After a moment she answered, "I know you will. I'll go to your mother. And you will come there, wherever our home is." The clear note of a bugle came to them. With a prayer in her heart and a smile on her lips she watched him stride away. She turned quickly then to put together her few belongings. Niels and Helga would want this cabin. She and Sister Lewis would go on together without fear. She whispered the last aloud. THE END FEBRUARY Leone E. McCune Ghostlike February, In your tattered gown. Hovering sad and lonely, Trailing up and down. You drift in the hollow 'Neath the moonlit hill. You shriek around the corner, Weep upon my sill. I hear you at dawning; Moaning sad and low, Wandering like a lost soul. Knows not where to go. You will follow winter When the sun rides high, And pussy willows unfold To a clear blue sky.