[WomansExponent | Vol1 | 1872 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: GRAINS OF GOLD. | Author: ﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

﻿GRAINS OF GOLD.
			      —
	LOVE is to the moral nature what the sun
is to the earth.—Balzac.
	ONE of the best remedies for the ills of
life is to have so much noble occupation as
to forget them.
	ONE may live as a conquerer, a king, or a
magistrate; but he must die as a man—no
discount on that.
	BASE all your actions upon a principle of
right; preserve your integrity of character,
and in doing this never reckon the cost.
	THE nerve which never relaxes, the eye
which never blanches, the thought which
never wanders—these are the masters of
victory.
	MEN are often capable of greater things
than they perform; they are sent into the
world with bills of credit, and seldom draw
to their full extent.
	THE following sentiment, given at a rail-
way festival, shows the heart of a true man:
“Our mothers—the only faithful tenders
who never misplace a switch.”
	COURAGE and modesty are virtues which
every sort of society reveres, because they
are virtues which cannot be counterfeited;
also they are known by the same hue.
	TRUE courage is cool and calm. The
bravest of men have the least of brutal,
bullying insolence, and in the very time of
danger are found the most serene and free.
	THE hardest thing in the world for a little
man to learn is that people don’t give them-
selves the trouble to think abou this littleness.
This is equally true in its moral application, 
	I FEEL that I am growing old for want of
somebody to tell me that I am looking as
young as ever. Charming falsehood! There
is a vast deal of vital air In loving words.—
Lander.
	THOSE who retire from the world on ac-
count of its sins and peskiness, must not
forget that they have yet to keep company
with a person who wants just as much
watching as anybody else. 
	WHEN a man thinks that nobody cares
for him, and that he is alone in a cold and
selfish world, he would do well to ask him-
self what he has done to make anybody care
for and to love him. And a woman has a
perfect right to do the same.
	FOR your own, as well as for your child-
ren’s sake, learn to speak low. They will
remember that tone when your head is un-
der the willows. So, too, will they remem-
ber a harsh and angry tone. Which legacy
will you leave your children?
	IT is noble and a great thing to cover the
blemishes and to excuse the faults and fail-
ings of a friend; to draw a curtain before
his stains, and to display his perfections; to
bury his weakness in silence, but to pro-
claim his virtues on the housetop.
	IT is not work that kills men; it is worry.
Work is healthy: you can hardly put more
upon a man than he can bear. Worry is
rust upon the blade. It is not the revolu-
tion that destroys the machinery, but the
friction. Fear secretes acids; but love and
trust are sweet juices.—Beechea.
	IF we work upon marble, it will perish;
if we work upon brass, time will effect it; if
we rear temples, they will crumble into dust;
but if we work upon the immortal minds—if
we imbue them with principles, with the
just fear of God and our fellow men—we en-
grave on those tabletssomething which will
brighten to all eternity.


﻿The Woman’s Club House in New York
will be ready for occupancy this Winter.


﻿LOVE.
				   —
	I wish that dear word, so expressive and
so real in its beautiful significance, was not 
so much abused by praters who do not un-
derstand, or else do not stop to consider its
true meaning and worth. It is always an-
noying to me to hear love spoken of in a
trifling and heartless manner by the un-
thinking or vicious. Why should they gos- 
sip and laugh over a theme so holy! A great, 
fine, noble looking man—a bachelor—whose
very smile bore indications of disappointed
hopes, decided once that love, like wine,
had become so much adulterated that there
remained nothing genuine about it. It
would have sounded more philosophical, I 
thought, had he said that love, like woman,
had been underestimated so much and so
long that its real value was now rarely, if
ever ascertained and appreciated. The fact
that many people who make and sell wines 
for the sake of the profits they realize from 
so doing, are not honest enough to care any- 
thing abut the quality of the liquor pro- 
duced, only as its price is affected, is no 
proof that if a man grows grapes and makes 
his own wine, he cannot have it as pure 
and sweet as if there were no such thing In
existence as adulterated wine. And because
we do not find the world full of love like
that of home, is no sign that it has ceased to
exist in its true, native,guileless state. “True
love seeks the happiness and welfare of its
object.” It is a pitiable heart that has only 
room in it for one individual, or even a
small circle of near friends and relatives.
The lover of mankind labors for the good of
the human family, and he will never be left
without love, the purest and best, for it 
reigns predominant in his own breast.
									L.


﻿THE PHILOSOPHY Of RAIN.—To under- 
stand the philosophy of this beautiful and
often sublime phenomenon, so often wit-
nessed since the creation of the world, and
so essential to the very existence of plants
and animals, a few facts derived from ob-
servation and a long train of experiments 
must be remembered:
	1.	Were the atmosphere every where at
times of a uniform temperature, we should 
never have rain, or hail, or snow. The wa- 
ter absorbed by it in evaporation from the
sea and earth’s surface, would descend in
an imperceptible vapor, or cease to be ab-
sorbed by the air when it was once fully
saturated.
	2.	The absorbing power of the atmos-
phere, and consequently its capacity to re- 
tain humidity, is proportionately greater in
warm than cold air.
	3.	The air near the surface of the earth
is warmer than it is in the region of the
clouds. The higher we ascend from the 
earth the colder do we find the atmosphere. 
Hence the perpetual snow on very high  
mountains in the hottest climate.
	Now, when, from continued evaporation, 
the air is highly saturated with vapor, 
though it be invisible and the sky cloudless,
f its temperature is suddenly reduced by 
cold currents descending from above, or
rushing from a higher to a lower latitude,
or by the motion of saturated air to a cooler 
latitude, its capacity to retain moisture is 
diminished, clouds are formed, and the re- 
suit is rain. Air condenses as it cools, and, 
like a sponge filled with water and com- 
pressed, pours out the water which its di- 
minished capacity cannot hold. How sing- 
ular, yet how simple, the philosophy of rain! 
What Omniscience could have devised such
an admirable arrangement for watering the 
earth?


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


