[Vol9 | November 1922 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Bureau of Information, Temple Block Frontispiece]

Bureau of Information, which, since its organization in August, 1902, has been the means of distributing millions of tracts, and its missionaries have talked with thousands of people who have come here out of curiosity to see the "Mormons" and to find out something about their lives and ideals. Hundreds of letters have been received during the past two decades thanking the missionaries for their untiring work, and praising them for their zeal in explaining the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Bureau of Information was organized as an institution by the First Presidency, August 4, 1902. The object of the Bureau was to disseminate literature and to talk with tourists on the beliefs of the "Mormon" people. Prior to that time, many saw the need of such an institution. As far back as the eighties, and in the early nineties, James Dwyer, the book merchant, went to the Temple Block daily and spent an hour talking with the tourists, and distributed among them copies of the "Articles of Faith" which he had printed on small cards. On the reverse side was a picture of the Temple Block, and the imprint: "Should you wish any further information concerning Church doctrines, please write James Dwyer, North Temple Street, Salt Lake City." We may say, and say with justice, that Elder James Dwyer was the father of the information movement in Salt Lake City. From the records of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, which was presided over by Elder Angus M. Cannon, we have the following: "At a home missionary meeting, presided over by President Angus M. Cannon of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion, November 30, 1898, Elder Benjamin Goddard, a home missionary, (the first and present director of the Bureau) recommended that some effort be made to place the gospel before the visitors passing through Salt Lake City. No action appears to have been taken at that time. "At a home missionary meeting presided over by President Angus M. Cannon, July 30, 1901, Elder Ephraim Jensen, custodian of the Tabernacle, thought it would be a good thing to have some of the home missionaries or other suitable brethren appointed to preach the gospel to the large number of strangers visiting this city, some of whom seemed anxious to know what we believed in and to become acquainted with us and our institutions." At a board meeting of the Y. M. M. I. A. Held Thursday, August 1, 1901, Elder LeRoi Snow called the attention of the members to the fact that something should be done to furnish  visitors with proper information concerning Salt Lake City and the "Mormon" people. As a result of a resolution presented by Elder Snow, a committee was appointed to confer with the Presidency of the Salt Lake Stake concerning the matter. The committee consisted of LeRoi C. Snow, Rudger Clawson, and Henry S. Tanner, and on Wednesday, August 21, these three brethren filed with the General Board a report of their labors and made certain recommendations.- A portion of the report reads: Elder LeRoi C. Snow of the committee appointed to consider the question of a local missionary work among strangers and visitors in Salt Lake City, reported that the committee had held several meetings and had consulted with President Angus M. Cannon, who expressed great interest in the work, and the committee recommended: "That a 'Bureau of Information' be established on the Temple Block, to be placed in charge of two competent elders, to be called. As regular missionaries, they to be supplied with special and general tracts. "That the necessary expense for star'ing this work be borne by the General Board. "On motion of Elder Edward H. Anderson, the report was referred to the General ag Ueicy—lneerdents Snow, Smith and Roberts." After due deliberation by the First Presidency, the matter was referred to the First Council of Seventy, with recommendations that the First Council do something to initiate the missionary work on the Temple Block. Elder Richard W. Young wrote the First Council concerning the importance of establishing a Mission Hall and even suggested a place for such a building. This letter was referred to the First Presidency, and they decided that the "First Council of Seventy should consider the matter of organizing a Bureau of Information, for the purpose of imparting correct information to the tourists." A committee of the First Council, of which Elder Rulon S. Wells was chairman, immediately went to work, and as a result of their deliberations, the First Presidency of the Church approved the plans for a small building to be erected on the Temple Block where literature should be freely given to the tourists, and miss'onaries called to impart proper information to the tourists. The First Council of Seventy called the following brethren to take charge of the work: Elders Benjamin Goddard, Thomas Hull, Arnold H. Schultess, and Josiah Burrows. A small building was erected at a cost of $500, and the work of imparting information to the tourists was begun. The institution grew from year to year, until now, the little building ef 1902 is replaced by a modern one of large dimensions, where there is a good museum, a large lecture hall, and places where  tourists may purchase Church works and other books. Thousands of visitors come to the Block every month, and millions of tracts are given freely away. Elder Benjamin, Goddard has had charge of the work, and through his untiring efforts, the Bureau has become the largest missionary institution in the Church, and its influence for godd grows with the years.