[Vol9 | November 1922 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Utah Public Health Conference]

Utah Public Health Conference The fifth annual conference of the Utah Public Health Association, was held on October 5 in the Hotel Utah. The Utah Public Health Association is an auxiliary of the National Tuberculosis Association, and is financed exclusively by the sale of the penny Christmas seals. The Association has been organized to promote better health conditions in the state, and is paying particu- ~~ lar attention to the fight against tuberculosis, disseminating knowledge concerning the nature, treatment and prevention of this cruel disease. At this conference, doctors, nurses, welfare workers and others interested in health problems, were in attendance, representing the various cities of the state. Morning and afternoon sessions were held, and a "Get Acquainted" luncheon was arranged for the noon hour. Besides an Address of Welcome, by the acting chairman, Dr. H. G. Merrill, of Provo, the following addresses were made during the day: "A Year's Activities,' James H. Wallis, Executive Secretary; "The Tuberculosis Situation in Utah," Dr. Warren A. Colton, U. S. Public Health Service; "The Sanatorium in the Tuberculosis Campaign," Dr. H. A. Pattison, Medical Director, National Tuberculosis Asociation, New York City; "Use of Statistics in Securing Legislation for Sanatoria," Miss Jessamine S. Whitney, Statistician, National. Tuberculosis Association, New York City; "Retrospection," Miss Kate Williams; "A Year's Attempt at Co-operation," Surgeon C. P. Knight, U. S. Public Health Service; "The Crusade in the Lower Grades," Dr. E. G. Gowans; "Attitude of the University Toward a-Standard Course in Public Health Nursing," Dr. George Thomas, President University of Utah; "Utah's Program Under the Sheppard-Towner Act," Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner; "Need of Standards for Public Health Nursing," Miss Mollie E. Utz, R. N., Supervising Nurse, Utah Public Health Association; "Health Education in Our Public Schools," Dr. C. N. Jensen, State Superintendent Public Instruction. Significant facts of the tuberculosis situation in Utah were disclosed in the reports made by the physicians and by Secretary James H. Wallis, of the Utah Public Health Association. A traveling clinic which was financed, by this Association and conducted in co-operation with the U. S. Public Health Service and the State Board of Health has made a survey of the state. The purpose of the clinic has been to discover the actual number of cases of tuberculosis; to give general information to  the patients as to their care; and to advise them of the need of medical attention in order to receive necessary treatment and to prevent the further spread of the disease. The clinic has been held in ninety-six cities. Twenty-four of the twenty-nine counties of the state have been visited. This does not include Salt Lake City and County. The report of the clinic on June 1 showed that there are in Utah 542 cases of tuberculosis; 219 active and 323 quiescent. Of the total number sixty-nine per cent are native-born Utahns and only six and seven-tenths percent have been in the state less than ten years In the past six years there have been 1163 deaths from tuberculosis in the state. The speakers emphasized the need of a tuberculosis sanatorium in the state, calling attention to the fact that Utah is one of five states that has no sanatorium nor any hospital provision to care for tuberculosis patients. While in most of the other states the morbidity and mortality rates of this disease have decreased, in Utah there has been an increase in both the number of cases and the number of deaths. 'Dr. Pattison, Medical Director of the National Tuberculosis Association pointed out the fact that there is always a decrease in the number of cases of tuberculosis when hospital facilities are provided, and that there is a proportionate increase in the spread of the disease if the community does not extend medical care and supervision. A sanatorium should function, Dr. Pattison said, not only as a hospital for patients where expert medical and nursing attention is given, but as a center for preventive work. By means of a clinical and nursing service, new cases can be discovered in the early stages of development, and educational and preventive work can be done in the homes to check the spread of the disease. The fact that seventy-five percent of the cases can be cured should be most encouraging to those afflicted with the disease and should be an incentive to the public to promote, vigorously, a scientific health campaign. Dr. Pattison stated that because of the social hazards of the disease, it is as much the duty of the state to assume the responsibility of providing care, as it is its duty to care for the insane, or to equip an adequate fire department.