[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: CHRISTMAS FANCIES. | Author: Unknown]

CHRISTMAS FANCIES.
Peace and good will to all mankind.
	Blessed Christmas if indeed it would
bring peace and good-will to all mankind.
Nowadays the Christmas time seems more
of a festivity and giving and receiving
gifts, than a time to exercise good will and
good feeling toward one’s neighbors; to
forgive wrongs and make peace with those
with whom we have been at variance, if
there are any such, would indeed make the
day a happy one. Cheerfulness is better
than hilarity, and simplicity even in giv-
ing is in much better taste than making
elaborate presents, or parading one’s

[Column 2]
generosity, as really seems to have come
to be the custom in this age. We deal
largely in extremes, even in giving, and
we do not always deal wisely with our-
selves or our friends. “Kind hearts are
more than coronets,” and the scripture
tells us, “a word fitly spoken is like apples
of gold in pictures of silver.” Therefore,
though we have not wealth to lavish on
our loved ones, we can bestow kindness
even in words.
	As a people we are in the enjoyment of
many blessings, and we have great reason
to rejoice that prosperity abounds in these
vales of the mountains and that we have
peace here, though we read and hear of
wars in other lands; and we should not for-
get the Lord in the days of our prosperity.
	Feasting and enjoying the good things
of life does not make up the sum of happi-
ness, not even at Christmas time; elabor-
ate preparations are very wearisome, and
the mother is often too much exhausted to
share in the children’s enjoyment of games
or sports, or perhaps to answer their ques-
tions about the why’s and wherefore’s of
Christmas. The injunction placed upon
us all to take care of our bodies, is greatly
disregarded at holiday times, or overdone,
we work so hard for the pleasure of a few
hours, we cook so much and some of us
eat so much that we are not happy and we
show it in our faces, therefore we are not
beautiful, though we may have bestowed
abundant pains upon our decorations to
make the home beautiful. If the mother
is care-worn or exhausted, if she cannot
wear a smiling face, then the day is not a
success. It is not necessary to have all
the luxuries the market affords, not even
on Christmas, to bring happiness; light
hearts, cheerful faces and kind words are
a far better relish at the family dinner
than the most savory dish lacking these
graces. Yet one does not like to be always
sermonizing. There are many pretty 
fancies about Christmas that have come
down to us, that set it off, so to speak, as
a day apart from all others, in the minds
of the little folks at least; and perhaps
none of us are altogether without a taste
for the mystic, and the legends and folk-
lore of ye olden time and of other lands
and other people, their habits, customs
and beliefs, have a more intense interest
because of their remoteness and the mys-
tery in which they are necessarily en-
shrouded.
	From the early Christians who sang the
midnight mass on the eve of the nativity,
in commemoration of the birth of Christ,
we get the name Christmas (Christ’s mass.)
Formerly immense logs were brought from
the forests and, often with much ceremony,
burned at Christmas time with great re-
joicing. Although we do not hear of the
yule log these days, yet a great log is
chosen even now where wood is used for
fuel; we who use coal do not have the
same feeling about the Xmas log. The
pictures in the fire on Christmas were con-
sidered significant, and the old wrongs
were thought to die out in the blaze.
Numberless superstitions that cluster

[Column 3]
around Christmas observances in the olden
time, are interwoven with Pagan and some
of them even early Christian ceremonies.
	It is said that “in Sweden on Christmas
Eve the shoes of the family are placed in
a row side by side, that harmony may pre-
vail during the year to come.” 
	“Throughout Northern Germany the
tables are spread and the lights left burn-
ing, that the Virgin Mary and the angel 
who brings the presents may find refresh-
ments.”
	This to us seems very absurd, but if in
our day the children thought more of the
mother or father, sister, brother or friend,
who gives on these occasions, and paid
them the reverence which is their due, the
spirit of jealousy and contention would
cease, and greater reverence might be ac-
corded to those who are really the good
angels in disguise.
	Even to this day it is a belief in Corn-
wall, Devonshire, and in English villages,
that the bees hum and that the cattle kneel
on Christmas Eve in adoration of the
Holy Child; and it is said the powers of
darkness are unable to work evil on man-
kind. Shakespeare, who is more often
quoted than any other poet, says:

“Some say that ever ’gainst that season comes
Wherein our Savior’s birth is celebrated,
The bird of dawning singeth all night long;
And then, they say, no spirit can walk abroad;
No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm,
So hallowed and so precious is the time.”

	The customs connected with the chil-
dren’s idea of Christmas have their origin
in Germany and the Netherlands. Our
little ones imitate the child of Holland
when they hang their stockings in front of 
the fireplace, so Santa Claus will find
them when he descends the chimney. The
beautiful Christmas tree, its branches
laden and lights sparkling, a sine que non,
with children nowadays is distinctly a
heathen idea perpetuated by the German
and Scandinavian races. The floral deco-
rations, which add so much to the beauty
of the festival, were inaugurated in the
days of the Saturnalia when the Roman
temples and houses were decorated with
flowers and garlands in honor of the god
of light. In the days of early antiquity
the British Druids reverenced the mistletoe
as something holy, when they found it
growing on an oak, the favorite tree of 
their divinity, Tutanes, the sun. When
they celebrated the winter solstice the
ancient Britons, accompanied by Druids,
went with music and singing to gather the
sacred mistletoe, and it was believed to
have a healing power. Clothed in white
the chief priest cut the tree with a golden
knife and the mistletoe (a sort of parasite)
would fall into the robe of the priest stand-
ing below, who distributed it among the
people, who carried it home and hung it
under the roof as a protection and shelter
to the sylvan deities during the winter
frost and cold. The Druids regarded the
pearly berries of the plant as an emblem
of purity and used it in the marriage rite.
The mistletoe custom still observed of
snatching a kiss under the mistletoe is


[Column 1]
associated with the mystic traditions, and
is a relic of the days of Druidism. The old
song we used to sing says:
	“The mistleto hung in the castle hall,
	The holy branch shone on the old oak wall,
	And all the tenants were blithe and gay,
	Keeping their Christmas holiday.”
	Holly, evergreen and laurel were used
to decorate the churches in early days in
England, as they are now. Ivy, though
sometimes used, is considered more appro-
priate for solemn occasions. Late in the
17th century the Ecclesiastical Canon of
England issued a decree that all Christ-
mas decorations must be down by the last
of January, as it was thought to be un-
lucky to keep them up longer in private
houses.
	At the time when the Druids were gath-
ering their mistletoe and the Romans were
decorating their temples in honor of Sat-
urn, the Scandinavians kindled huge bon-
fires in honor of the sun god, Thor.
	The good cheer of old England at
Christmas time is proverbial, and little
wonder when one reads of the feasting.
The peacock with his gorgeous train was
a royal dish brought to the festal board by
some fair lady, and over him the knights
errant swore to do or die for their “ladyes
fayre.” From this custom comes Justice
Swallow’s oath, “By cock and pie.” In
Charles II. time turkeys and capons with
plum pudding became the regular dish,
and the mince pie still perpetuated, was a
special requisite at a Xmas dinner more
than a hundred years ago.
	The Newcastle Chronicle of 1770 gives the
contents of the famous “Christmas pye”
of the olden time. * * * Its ingredients
were 2 bushels of flour, 20 pounds of
butter, 4 geese, 2 turkeys, 2 rabbits, 4 wild
ducks, 2 woodcocks, 6 snipe, 4 partridges,
2 neats tongues, 2 curlews, 4 blackbirds
and six pigeons, with eggs, sugar, raisins,
lemons, oranges and various kinds of
spicery. “it weighed twelve stone.” One
would wonder where it could be baked;
and yet when one knows what great fire-
places and ovens they had in those old
halls and castles, one might imagine that
even such a pie could be put in and baked.
In the lower part of the Nottingham
Castle, which, by the by, is about all that
is left of it, we saw the largest ovens, just
like a great arch, one on each side of a
huge fireplace. Of course they are not
in very good preservation, but are still
standing; and at Kenilworth Castle we
counted the remains of nine or ten im-
mense fireplaces, in one area of the ruin,
doubtless there had been ovens there
to correspond with the size of the fire-
places. When one recalls the number of
the inmates of these great buildings and
the retainers, and that there were no bake
shops adjacent to buy food from, and
everything must be made on the premises,
one can fancy great quantities of food
cooked somewhere.
	The writer when standing in St. George’s
Hall, Windsor Castle, thought of the great
banquets that had been given there to the
English warriors, and also when the brave
heroes and men were initiated into the
order of the Knights of the Garter; what
eating, drinking and carousing must have
taken place, and what wonderful prepara-
tions in the way of cooking must have pre-
ceded these great occasions. At the pres-
ent time one can buy almost everything
ready cooked, and the facilities for prepar-

[Column 2]
ing food are altogether easier than they
were even fifty years ago. 
	Christmas in England this year cannot
be a very merrie one, judging from the
dispatches of the war in South Africa, and
although Queen Victoria is very heroic,
yet so many of Her Majesty’s officers have
been slain or wounded, that conditions
must necessarily have a depressing effect
upon the whole country. The Queen will
have the sympathy of all true Americans
in this time of anxiety, for she is justly
beloved by the people of the United States.
It is to be hoped that matters may be so
adjusted as to bring this cruel war to a
close; and now that the court of arbitration
is so near being established the outlook for
a final compact seems more likely to be
consummated.
	How ardently one wishes for the day
when war shall cease, and the angelic in-
junction, “On earth peace, good will to-
ward men,” find a hearty response from
all nations. The “Yule peace,” old as the
Runic stones of antiquity, a time of good
fellowship and brotherly love, quarrels all
healed, feuds forgotten, and the world ani-
mated by the universal spirit of love. Is
this too much to hope for? At any rate,
each one who strives to love his neighbor
as himself is doing his utmost to fufill the
law.  Our blessed Savior said:
	Love your enemies, do good to them which hate
you.
	Bless them that curse you, and pray for them
that despitefully use you and persecute you.
	How few there are who heed these
words in the least, yet desire to keep the
commandments and excel in many ways.
Jesus in His “Sermon on the Mount” said:
“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they
shall be called the children of God.” And
what more fitting time to strive to culti-
vate this in one’s heart than the day on
which we celebrate the nativity of the
Savior of the world?
	Many mothers and housewives are like
Martha, whom the Savior rebuked, they
work and worry and fret, over-burdened,
over-solicitous, “troubled about many
things.” It would be so much better if
there were less cooking, less variety, and
if mothers were not so weary and could
get a little more real enjoyment at Christ-
mas time.
	“At Christmas play and make good cheer,
	For Christmas comes but once a year.”
