[Vol28 | September 1941 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Unknown Society]
^^  Society  were  honored  at  a  social  by  the  officers  and  the  members  of  the  ward 
Relief  Society. 
Standing,  left  to  right,  Cecil  Clifford  Spindler,  now  of  Sacramento,  CaHfornia;  Jane 
Harward,  Salt  Lake  City;  Emma  Merkley,  Blackfoot;  Jane  Terry,  Salt  Lake  City;  Ida 
Eskelsen,  Blackfoot;  Afton  Johnston,  Blackfoot;  Sarah  Marshall,  Blackfoot. 
Sitting,  left  to  right,  Mary  E.  Jacobs,  Blackfoot;  Flora  Johnston,  Blackfoot;  Kathrine 
Heese,  Blackfoot,  first  president;  Viola  Goates,  Blackfoot,  present  president.  Each  guest 
was  presented  with  a  hand-painted  memory  book.  The  stake  Relief  Society  president 
is  Mary  S.  Bills. 
PAST  PRESIDENTS  OF  SOUTH  SEVIER  STAKE  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
Left  to  right:    Matilda  B.  Ross,  Nina  Hanson,  Ada  Anderson,  Anetta  Christensen, 
Jetta  Marquardson 
South  Sevier  Stake  (Elsinore,  Utah)  South   Sevier  Stake  Relief  Society 
AN  interesting  program  and  social  president  and  board.    A  unique  fea- 
was  given  at  the  Elsinore  Recre-  ture  of  this  entertainment  was  the 
ation  Hall,  May  17,  1941,  by  the  presence  of  all  former  stake  Relief

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
Society  presidents,  who  were  paid 
lovely  tributes  and  presented  with 
beautiful  corsages. 
The  main  feature  of  the  program 
was  a  pageant,  ''Mothers  of  Our 
Nation,"  by  Mabel  S.  Harmer.  This 
was  taken  from  the  Relief  Society 
Magazine  for  May,  1935,  page  308. 
A  group  of  thirty  Singing  Mothers 
furnished  the  music.  A  reception  fol- 
lowed. Two  lovely  girls  in  formal 
dresses  of  Relief  Society  colors  pre- 
sided at  the  refreshment  table,  which 
was  beautiful  with  its  English  lace 
cloth,  its  crystal  candleholders  with 
blue  candles,  and  its  large  crystal 
563 
bowl  with  yellow  and  white  snap- 
dragons placed  on  a  reflector.  Re- 
freshments were  daintily  served  to 
nearly  300. 
The  past  presidents  honored  on 
this  occasion  were:  Matilda  B.  Ross, 
of  Los  Angeles,  the  first  president; 
Nina  Hanson,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
second;  and  Ada  Anderson  and  An- 
netta  Christensen,  of  Elsinore,  the 
third  and  fourth,  respectively. 
Since  this  party,  the  stake  Relief 
Society  board  was  reorganized  on 
June  22,  1941,  with  Jennie  Brown
