[Vol28 | September 1941 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field Magazine]
1^0  lesson  is  provided  for  this  date  due  to  the  hoHday  season.    (See  ''Notes 
to  the  Field/'  page  612.) 
  ^   
11  iission  JLessofis 
Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 
(For  optional  use  of  missions  in  lieu  of  Literature) 
Lesson  3 
(Tuesday,  December  16,  1941) 
THE  SPIRIT  OF  GOD  LIKE  A  FIRE 
The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning! 
The  latter-day  glory  begins  to  come  forth; 
The  visions  and  blessings  of  old  are  returning, 
And  angels  are  coming  to  visit  the  earth. 
Chorus 
We'll  sing  and  we'll  shout  with  the  armies  of  heaven, 
Hosanna,  hosanna  to  God  and  the  Lamb! 
Let  glory  to  them  in  the  highest  be  given. 
Henceforth  and  forever;  amen,  and  amen! 
The  Lord  is  extending  the  Saints'  understanding, 
i  Restoring  their  judges  and  all  as  at  first. 
The  knowledge  and  power  of  God  are  expanding, 
The  veil  o'er  the  earth  is  beginning  to  burst. 
We'll  call  in  our  solemn  assemblies  in  spirit, 
To  spread  forth  the  kingdom  of  heaven  abroad. 
That  we  through  our  faith  may  begin  to  inherit 
The  visions  and  blessings  and  glories  of  God. 
How  blessed  the  day  when  the  lamb  and  the  lion 
Shall  lie  down  together  without  any  ire. 
And  Ephraim  be  crowned  with  his  blessing  in  Zion, 
As  Jesus  descends  with  His  chariot  of  fire! 
—William  W.  ?he\ps 
A  FTER  the  idea  of  God  and  our  First,  we  believe  in  God,  in  Christ 
relation  to  him,  comes  the  idea  as  our  Savior,  and  in  the  'plan  of 
that  the  Holy  Ghost  may  be  given  life  and  salvation";  second,  we  re- 
to  us  to  guide  and  comfort  and  en-  pent  of  all  our  sins,  with  a  determina- 
lighten  us  in  this  'Vale  of  tears."  tion  to  refrain  from  further  sin  to 
Page  649

650 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER,  1941 
the  full  extent  of  our  ability;  third, 
we  are  baptized  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins.  Then  we  are 
ready  for  someone  holding  the 
proper  authority  to  lay  hands  on  our 
head  to  impart  to  us  the  ''gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost." 
liTILLIAM  Wines  Phelps,  like  the 
two  poets  we  have  already  con- 
sidered, was  of  old  American  stock. 
Born  in  New  Jersey,  on  February 
17,  1792,  he  went  in  his  youth  to 
what  was  then  the  western  part  of 
New  York.  He  seems  to  have  had  a 
good  education,  though  how  or 
where  he  received  it,  we  do  not 
know. 
In  western  New  York  he  was  fa- 
vored by  fortune.  When  we  first 
learn  of  him  there,  he  was  the  owner 
and  editor  of  a  partisan  newspaper, 
which  also  did  job  printing.  We  do 
not  know  to  which  political  party 
William  Phelps  belonged,  but  we 
do  know  that  he  was  regarded  highly 
enough  by  his  party  as  to  be  seriously 
considered  for  the  office  of  lieuten- 
ant governor  of  the  state.  It  was  here 
that  he  first  heard  of  Mormonism, 
although  he  did  not  embrace  it  till 
after  the  Saints  had  gone  to  Kirtland, 
Ohio. 
In  December,  1830,  he  and  Sid- 
ney Rigdon  had  a  ten-hours'  con- 
versation about  the  new  Church. 
Elder  Rigdon  was  then  on  a  visit 
to  Palmyra,  to  see  and  talk  with  the 
Prophet.  In  this  interview  Sidney 
Rigdon  told  William  Phelps,  'l 
know  that  this  religion  is  true  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.''  Wil- 
liam Phelps  later  visited  the  Hill 
Cumorah,  talked  with  the  Prophet, 
and  examined  all  the  evidences  of 
the  divinity  of  the  Prophet's  mis- 
sion. On  the  removal  of  Joseph 
Smith  to  Ohio,  Mr.  Phelps  hastened 
after  him  and  was  baptized. 
The  chorus  of  this  hymn  is  a  kind 
of  shout  and  song.  It  comes  as  an 
expression  of  feeling  and  gratitude 
One  of  the  revelations  in  the  Doc- 
tiine  and  Covenants  was  given  to 
Elder  Phelps  through  the  Prophet. 
It  is  Section  55.  In  it  he  was  told 
that  he  was  "chosen"  as  well  as 
''called."  This  was  given  before  he 
was  baptized.  He  was  promised  that 
"on  whomsoever"  he  should  lay  his 
hands,  if  they  were  contrite,  he 
should  "have  the  power  to  give  the 
Holy  Ghost."  Later  he  was  sent  to 
Missouri,  to  set  up  and  to  edit  the 
Evening  and  Morning  Star,  the  first 
Church  periodical.  Later  still,  in 
both  Missouri  and  Illinois,  he  served 
as  the  Prophet's  secretary.  He  died 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  1872,  very 
greatly  honored,  after  an  active  and 
devoted  life. 
It  is  as  a  poet,  however,  that  we 
are  here  concerned  with  William 
W.  Phelps.  His  poetry  consists  of 
short  poems,  many  of  which  have 
been  set  to  music.  Among  those 
whose  compositions  are  included  in 
our  Latter-day  Saint  hymn  book, 
William  W.  Phelps  comes  second 
in  number  of  contributions,  there 
being  exactly  thirty  of  his  compo- 
sitions published  in  that  volume. 
Some  of  his  hymns  are  among 
the  best  in  the  language,  and  all  of 
them  are  in  the  spirit  of  the  New 
Dispensation. 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire" 
was  composed  Jn  time  to  be  in- 
cluded in  Emma  Smith's  collection 
of  hymns,  a  task  to  which  she  had 
been  assigned  by  revelation.  (See 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section 
25.)  In  this  collection,  published 
in  1835,  there  were  twenty-six  of 
William  Phelps'  compositions,  as 
compared  with  five  by  Parley  P. 
Pratt  and  two  bv  Eliza  R.   Sno\^.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
651 
The  book  came  out  about  a  year 
before  the  dedication  of  the  Kirt- 
land  Temple.  Upon  that  occasion, 
the  hymn  we  are  now  considering 
was  sung  impressively. 
The  Kirtland  Temple,  the  first  of 
its  kind  in  this  dispensation,  was  a 
notable  building  in  more  than  one 
respect.  The  Saints  were  compara- 
tively few  in  number,  and  there  was 
much  opposition  to  them  in  and 
around  Kirtland.  But  they  perse- 
vered until  on  March  27,  1836,  the 
Temple  was  dedicated.  The  build- 
ing cost  about  $75,000— a  large  sum 
for  that  time.  A  special  revelation 
{Doctiine  and  Covenants,  Section 
109)  contains  the  prayer  that  was 
offered  in  dedication  on  that  occa- 
sion. 
TN  the  first  stanza  of  'The  Spirit  of 
God  Like  a  Fire/'  we  have  again 
an  expression  of  the  Restoration. 
'Tatter-day  glory,"  'Visions  and 
blessings"  like  those  of  the  olden 
time,  ''angels  visiting  the  earth"— 
these  are  marks  of  the  new  Church. 
The  phrase  "like  a  fire  is  burning" 
recalls  the  burning  bush  of  Moses 
(Exodus,  Chapter  3),  and  the  state- 
ment of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
that  God  "dwells  in  everlasting 
burnings."  Always,  so  far  as  we 
know,  heavenly  beings  appear  to 
men  in  great  light.  This  was  the 
case  when  the  Prophet  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son  in  the  woods 
on  his  father's  farm  and  when  the 
Angel  Moroni  came  to  him  in  that 
attic  room  in  the  Smith  home  three 
and  one-half  years  later.  "Above 
the  brightness  of  the  sun"  and 
"lighter  than  at  noonday"  are  the 
phrases  the  Prophet  uses  to  describe 
this  light. 
The  chorus  of  this  hymn  is  a  kind 
of  shout  and  song.  It  comes  as  an 
expression  of  feeling  and  gratitude 
that  the  former  blessings  have  been 
revived:  "Hosanna,  hosanna  to  God 
and  the  Lamb!"  "Let  glory  to  them 
in  the  highest  be  given.  .  .  .  Hence- 
forth and  forever  .  .  .  !  " 
As  a  result  of  the  visions  and  glory, 
the  second  stanza  tells  us,  the  un- 
derstanding of  those  who  have  ac- 
cepted the  new  movement  in  re- 
ligion is  "extending."  Moreover,  the 
knowledge  of  God  and  his  power  are 
"expanding"  accordingly,  and  the 
"veil"  of  darkness  "is  beginning  to 
burst."  Note  the  phrase,  "is  begin- 
ning." The  full  flood  of  light  has 
not  yet  come. 
Having  received  these  great  bless- 
ings and  this  knowledge,  it  is  our 
duty  now,  we  are  informed  in  the 
third  stanza,  to  "spread  forth  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  abroad."  This 
will  be  one  means  by  which  we  may 
"inherit,  through  faith,"  the  prom- 
ises which  the  Lord  has  made  to  the 
faithful.  For  all  mankind  must  be 
both  warned  and  taught— warned  of 
the  "judgments"  to  come  if  they  do 
not  work  righteousness,  and  taught 
the  way  to  "inherit"  the  celestial 
world.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  upon 
the  Latter-day  Saints  has  been 
placed  the  same  responsibility  that 
the  former-day  Saints  had  of  preach- 
ing the  Gospel  to  "every  creature." 
From  the  Restoration  ideas,  vi- 
sions, and  glories,  the  hymn  goes,  in 
the  last  stanza,  to  the  millennial 
reign  of  Christ,  when  "the  lamb 
and  the  lion  shall  lie  down  together 
without  any  ire."  We  are  assured 
in  the  revelations  given  to  our 
Prophet  that  when  the  proper  time 
comes  Christ  "will  reveal  himself 
from  heaven  with  power  and  great 
glory,  with  all  the  hosts  thereof,  and 
dwell  in  righteousness  with  men  on 
earth  a  thousand  years,  and  the 
wicked  shall  not  stand."  (See  Doc