[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Now It Is Better That a Man Should Be Judged of God" by Leone O. Jacobs]

visiting teachers could be extended to include, as perhaps it is intended so to do, something of discreet investigation as to what the relationship of the husband and the wife in that home is, and as to whether or not they are suffering with some of these irritations and quarreling, it might be that, with some careful admonition, there could be nipped 798 in the bud a situation that results in a divorce.
What a one that would be! When I think how lightly the marriage compact is viewed by many people, without regard to the children, those who suffer most, innocent victims of these disturbed family relationships, I think that anyone who can save a marriage is entitled not only to a great personal satisfaction, but is entitled to the blessings of our Father who is interested in the preservation of these sacred institutions. I don't know as it would be violating a confidence to say to you here today that one of the most disturbing and exacting of all the duties coming to the President of the Church relates to these divorces, and to help to avoid those situations would be a marvelous contribution. I have the most profound admiration for the visiting teachers of the Relief Society. Of course, we have seen them throughout all of our history. I know they inquire with as much care and solicitude as they may, as to the economic conditions. 'They want to know if people have food, and bedding, and clothing, and shelter.
They are particularly interested in the physical welfare of the people, and the good that they have done in their unobtrusive way can never be written. It goes beyond even our comprehension, these dear sisters who have quietly carried in things where they have been needed, and have helped the bedridden wife and mother, and have come to the relief of those suffering from the deprivation of loved ones. 
Pll venture that if there could be assessed the amount of food that has been prepared by the Relief Society to bring to the homes of the people of this Church (and those not of this Church) after a funeral, it would be prodigious in its amount.
What a kindly service!
There is scarcely a death in a ward where these kind sisters do not make provision to bring comfort and blessedness to.
Those who need it. I never go to a funeral that I don't observe the Relief Society sisters, looking after the flowers, and helping the people.
These are simple _ services and they are of very great advantage. 'The economic advantage is this: I have never made a great study of it, but I've been acquainted with social work to a sufficient extent that I know that all social work is what we say heavily loaded.
Only a part of the contributions reach the beneficiaries. A percentage goes to expenses. The charity of the Relief Society is freer from loading than any charity I have ever known.
They may not be educated like some of your professional social workers, but they carry a spirit and love that is unmatchable. FE do need constructive care and constructive attention to our problems, but I think our sisters are capable of doing this, and I hope that they will not depart far from the time-honored practice and procedure which take them into the homes as friends and neighbors with love and sympathy to requite the necessities of those who need them. THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS So I pay my tribute to the visiting teachers of this great organization, who, over generations, have been ministering angels of mercy and comfort and encouragement to their neighborhood. Now there is an aspect of your work that I would like to bring to your attention this day. I suppose it had its initial beginning about the time that these sisters have spoken of, when as I understand it, among other instructions, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that the women were to provoke their men to good works. I have sometimes wondered if that was a very wise choice of a word. My wife always uses it on me if I think she goes too far. She says she has official warrant to "provoke" me. But the meaning was that the sisters should help their husbands of the Priesthood. Sister Spafford has defined from the original instructions, the relationship of the Priesthood to the sisters, and there are a few aspects of that subject that I think might with.
Propriety be brought to your attention. First, a marriage is a partnership, a marriage is a compact between a man and wife. But a Latter-day Saint marriage carries with it something more than the worldly compact. The Latter-day Saint marriage carries the understanding that a man of the Priesthood is to stand at the head of his household. I've been a little concerned, at times, about the attitude that I have observed arising from women who were so intent upon the emphasis to be placed on this partnership, that they were not willing to take any subordinate, if it may be called subordinate position. Now I am 799 sympathetic with what our women do and the contribution they make to the home, and, for my own part, I say that it is the biggest contribution of all. But for the good of the home and for its preservation, I have long been firmly convinced that any woman who will sustain her husband as head of the household, and teach her children to do likewise, will make a distinct contribution to the children also. And I always regret seeing a woman do anything to belittle her husband, even for his mistakes, before her children, and I have been hurt time and time again when I have been in homes and seen a man embarrassed, and I likewise have no sympathy with a husband who would embarrass his wife before her children. WE are under a government of law. We are under the government of the law of the Lord in Zion and we are under the government of the law of the land where we live. Few things contribute more to respect for the law and established authority than the practices of the home. Ill tell you, you can't very well expect to teach re- — spect for authority if you permit your husband to be belittled in the presence of your children. So I draw that to your attention, because I believe as we preserve the integrity of the home as it was meant to be, we will do that which we should for the building up of the kingdom. I want your menfolks to be worthy to be sustained as the heads of the household, that goes without saying, but in your sympathetic understanding, even at the sacrifice 800 of what may seem to be a little of your own dignity, I ask you to try to sustain them before their children as the heads of the household. The men need your help in other Tespects. It may seem a little bit odd that I should appear before you here today to ask you to help us with the Priesthood of this Church, but I make that appeal. Sisters, you know what the Priesthood means to those who bear it, you know how important it is that they should magnify their callings, and I trust that you know that the man who fails to use his Priesthood will lose it. You do not want the men of the Priesthood to lose their Priesthood; you want to help them and you want to encourage them. Our men need to attend their meetings more than they do. I hope.
They are always encouraged so to do by their wives. I recognize the fact that when a man comes home at night after work his wife needs him. She has cared for the children all day; she is tired as he is. She could use his help and his influence in the discipline of the children and in helping her with them, and it's a great sacrifice to her to be deprived of his company when she needs him. But if that man has a Priesthood meeting, I hope that you dear sisters will say, "John, you go to your meeting, I'll get along. You go to your meeting." If you say that, you'll give him encouragement and help and you'll be glad that you took that course, for if that man maintains his position in the Priesthood, it will be the reward for your sacrifice, and God will bless you and your family by his close ad herence to all of his duties and responsibilities. We need your help in the reclamation of some men, not only in their encouragement, but we need your help in their reclamation. And I'm sure that our sisters, exercising their influence wisely, can be a great means of bringing back a lot of men who have been negligent, and who have gone astray. I know it's a sorrow to many of you, a great sorrow, to have your men go astray, and I think you can give help without being offensive, and that help will be rewarded. So attention to these opportunities, I am sure, my dear sisters, will bring great good for the Church. I've always said that if two things in this Church were right everything else would be right. The Priesthood and the home are those two things. You, of course, are chiefly responsible for one of them, or largely so, and you can help infinitely in the other one. NOw a good deal is said these days about women getting out, getting out of the home, getting away from all of the drudgery and relieving themselves from some of the burden.
That women carry. I am glad Sister Spafford said what she did about our wives working. I suppose that our wives will consider, some of them, that they need to work. I regret it, at least if they have families to care for, because that is their first responsibility and consideration. But this getting out of the home, going away much, wanting to be on trips, not being satished with home and family, I am sure you can do much to combat that idea. The women that THE RESPONSIBILITY OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS want to get away from home are the women that never learn to have any real pleasure and enjoyment in their home with their children.
They want to get away, because they are often unhappy. My dear old mother told me that for the first twenty-five years that she was married, she never was away from home twenty-four hours at one time. Now it's different, I guess, but she was not an unhappy woman; anybody who knew her will testify that she wasn't. She was a very happy mother and a happy woman. And for the first quarter century of her married life, she gave herself to her home and her children, and made them happy. I wish that the women of the world could understand what it means to secure such happiness out of their homes. I'm sure that they would be led to a different course than they now take.
Perhaps that was too much confinement, but it wasn't unhappiness. It was the realization of what she thought was her goal and her ambition as a mother and a homemaker. So I hope that you - will do what you can, my sisters, to stay the progress of this tendency to get out of the home. We live apart so much from it now that it doesn't fill the function that it once had. I used to have an old Irish friend, with an inimitable wit, who used to say, "Well, in the old times, it was always thought to be the proper thing for a baby to. Be born at home, and now they are 801 all born up in the hospital, and it was always thought to be the proper custom for old folks to die at home, and now they go to California." So, after all, there isn't much doing in the home with a good many of these people.
Some of the work may seem to be mundane, but it is not.
There is no menial, there is no mundane work in raising a family of God's children to return them to their eternal home whence their spirits came. So great is the concept of that undertaking, so glorious the vision of that which follows, that it must, of necessity, give spiritual import and great significance to every single item, however trivial, however small, which transpires in a good home. So, my dear sisters, my heart is full of blessings for you today. I know I would be derelict if I did not bring to you at this conference the greetings and the love and the blessings of President McKay and President Clark. I know their appreciation of your marvelous work, and I know that we in the Church rely upon you for the achievement of some of its greatest goals and aspirations, and I know that with the record that you have behind you, you will not fail, but you will go forward, and large and important as your organization seems today, it will grow, and expand, and exercise a larger and more potent influence in the building of Zion. God bless you to this end, I ask humbly in the name of Jesus. Amen.