[A Christmas Star Tree by Bertha Lorentzen]

Christmas Star Sree Bertha Lorentzen Home Service Department, Mountain Fuel Supply Company Time: 8
Minutes Le a er |1 c. Butter saspeeenencsetnene-nonessteeenor== cdi erst ae nes al ¢. Sugar a I OI nor2 eggs, beaten % tsp. Vanilla 4. Sift together 3 times -..0 eee eee cece ceeeceeeeeeeeeeeens3 ¢. Sifted flour % tsp. Soda " tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Baking powder 5. Add alternately by thirds, using a stroke count of 50, 50, 125. 6. Chill thoroughly. 7. Cut out 7 star cookies in graduted sizes, ranging from 8 inches to 2 inches. Cut 7 2-inch circles to be used between stars. 8. Arrange all on cookie sheets and bake. G. Remove immediately to wire rack for cooling and put dowel stick through center of each, making a small hole. 10. Beat thoroughly - 2::-ceccssceesssseeceeseeeseneeseesenseesl egg Tee; 1 c¢. Powdered sugar green coloring 11. Frost stars with icing and sprinkle with multicolored sprills and silver dragees. 12. Support a slender round stick (dowel stick purchased from your butcher) firmly on a square or round base so that it will stand. Cover with red ribbon and bow. 13. Slip the largest star on stick and anchor with frosting. 14. Next place one small round cookie on stick, then the next size star, and so on, alternating points of stars to get the affect of tree branches and anchoring to stick with frosting between cookies. 15. Place small 2-inch star on edge for star on top of tree. " Yield: 1 tree Note: For a larger tree, recipe may be doubled. In this case, two of each size star should be cut. Extra dough may be used for figures of animals, gingerbread men, etc.  LESSON | DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 6—Coriantumr and Ether Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Ether, chapters 12-15.) For Tuesday, March 4, 1952
Objective: faith.
Note to Class Leaders: This lesson, as the preceding lesson, consists of two parts: first, a narration of the final period of the Jaredites; and second, other teachings of Moroni. JN the days when Coriantumr was king over all the land, the Prophet Ether began to prophecy to the people "for he could not be restrained because of the Spirit of the Lord which was in him. For he did cry from the morning, even until the going down of the sun" (Ether 12:2, 3). He taught them that this land of promise was the place on which the New Jerusalem was to be built up unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph. And this land was to be the land of their inheritance. Moroni, writing about the prophecies of Ether, records that they were great and marvelous. But the people would not listen to them. Finally, Ether "hid himself in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things which should come upon the people" (Ether 13:13). To study the results of disobedience, and the necessity of exercising During the first year that he dwelt in the cavity of the rock, many people were slain by those who belonged to the secret combinations.
They were fighting against Coriantumr for the kingdom.