[Use of Material for Theology Lessons]

Material must be submitted through the stake or mission and not directly from the local society. It must deal with organization activities and not with those of individual members. A concise report of the activity should accompany the illustration or picture. (Do not send more than one picture.) Pictures must be clear, black-and-white glossy prints. Do not send negatives.
Identifying information should be written on the back of the picture or securely attached to it.
Make sure the material you submit is selected in the light of what you wish to have represent your stake or mission in this historical record and see REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS that it serves the purposes for are this section is designed. The Family Hour Reports from the stakes are indeed gratifying with regard to the success of the Family Hour. 'This important activity seems to be taking hold.
Stakes and wards have been diligent and resourceful in promoting it.
Please continue your efforts. Indian Relations Work We also commend you sisters for your splendid work in connection with the Indian Relations Committees.
Your accomplishments are praiseworthy. Temple Clothes Sister Simonsen, who has charge of the general board's temple and burial clothing department, has asked me to advise you, particularly those of you who are new in your positions, that this department is prepared to supply not only templeburial clothing but temple clothing for use in the temples. A number of stakes have asked the advice of the general board with regard to their stake boards entering into the making of this clothing for sale.
Since the general board can supply persons with this clothing as fast as bus, rail, or plane can reach them, and in view of the responsibility entailed in obtaining and caring for materials, and in obtaining the services of skilled seamstresses, as well as the great care necessary in handling the clothing, we would not think it advisable for you to enter into making temple clothing unless you are so far removed from the gen- 823 eral board headquarters as to make _it impractical to obtain it from here. Week-Day Ward Auxiliary Conferences There is a growing practice among stake Priesthood authorities of holding ward auxiliary conference sessions during the week of the regular ward conference.
Some stake presidents also schedule a preliminary officers meeting in connection with these conferences. The questions are asked as to whether such conferences are in lieu of the November Fast Sunday evening meeting designated by the general board for the annual ward Relief Society conference; and whether or not the preliminary session may serve in lieu of the preliminary session of the November meeting. The weekday conference conducted under the direction of the local Priesthood authorities is not in lieu of the November annual ward Relief Society conference since it reaches only the Relief Society members and not the ward membership as does the November meeting. If the preliminary session brings together the same workers and accomplishes the same purposes as the November preliminary meeting, then we would see no reason to repeat this session. Activities Conflicting With Conference Sessions We suggest that Relief Society officers, as such, avoid scheduling activities or accepting invitations for themselves, or their workers, to functions or gatherings held during the hours of general Church conference sessions for the general Church membership.