[Theology: Coriantumr and Ether by Leland H. Monson]

Coriantumr was skilled in the arts of war and in all the cunning of the. World, but he was not righteous. In the second year that Ether lived in the cavity of a rock, at the direction of the Lord, he prophesied unto Coriantumr that if he and his household would repent, the Lord would give unto him his kingdom and would spare the people, otherwise, they should be destroyed and all his household, except himself, and he should only live to see the fulfilling of the prophecies which had been spoken concerning another people receiving the land for their inheritance. He predicted that Coriantumr should receive burial at their hands, and every soul should be destroyed save it were Coriantumr.
Hearing all  850 this, yet Coriantumr did not repent.
Years of turmoil atl fighting followed, years which brought degeneration and sorrow to a wicked people. A curse came upon the land.
Wherefore every man did cleave unto that which was his own, with his hands, and would not borrow neither would he lend; and every man kept the hilt of his sword in his right hand, in the defense of his property and his own life and of his wives and children (Ether 14:2).
Coriantumr defended his kingdom against the armies of Shared; Shared's brother Gilead; Lib; and finally Lib's brother Shiz.
Shiz was a fierce warrior who pursued Coriantumr, destroying many cities and slaying women and children. The people feared him, so much so the cry went forth in the land—"Who can stand before the army of Shiz?" (Ether 14:18).
Part of the people fled to the army of Shiz, and a part of them fled to the army of Coriantumr. The. War was of such intensity and duration that the whole face of the land was covered with the slain. 'The war was so swift and speedy that there was none left to bury the dead, but they did march forth from the shedding of blood to the shedding of blood, leaving the bodies of both men, women, and children strewed upon the face of the land, to become a prey to the worms of the flesh (Ether 14:22). Shiz, continued to pursue Coriantumr, actuated by two motives: first, to avenge the death of his brother, who had been slain; and second, to prove false the prophecy of Ether that Coriantumr should not fall by the sword. 
During one of the subsequent battles, Shiz inflicted several deep wounds on Coriantumr. Fainting because of the loss of blood, Coriantumr was carried away as though dead. When Coriantumr had recovered of his wounds he began to remember the words of Ether. He saw that there had been slain "two millions of mighty men, and also their wives and children" (Ether 15:2). He began to repent of the evil he had done, sorrow entered his heart, "and his soul mourned and refused to be comforted." And he wrote a letter to Shiz proffering to relinquish his rights in the kingdom to Shiz for the sake of the lives of the people. Shiz replied that the only condition under which he would spare the lives of the people was that he might slay Coriantumr with his own sword. This only served to anger the followers of Coriantumr, and the battles were renewed. In his narrative of the final battles, Moroni wrote: The army of Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the hill Ramah; and it was that same hill where my father Mormon did hide up the records unto the Lord, which were sacred (Ether 15:11). Coriantumr and Shiz were four years preparing for the last great battles, gathering together all the people who were on the land of promise, men, women, and children | "save it was Ether." The women and children were armed with weap-. Ons of war and fought in the battles. After the second day of battle, Coriantumr wrote a second letter to Shiz, again proffering the kingdom if he would but spare the lives of the people. But the Spirit'
LESSON DEPARTMENT of the Lord had ceased to strive with them, wherefore they went again to battle. Finally, all had fallen in battle, save only Coriantumr and Shiz, and Shiz had fainted with the loss of blood. Coriantumr leaned upon his sword, rested a little, and then beheaded Shiz. The prophecies of Ether had been literally fulfilled, and Ether had been a witness of their fulfillment. Obedient to God's command, he finished the twenty-four gold plates, which record was Moroni's source for his history in'The Book of Ether, and hid them where they were later found and preserved by the people of Limhi. "Now the last words which are written by Ether are these: Whether the Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the will of the Lord in the flesh, it mattereth not, if it so be that I am saved in the kingdom of God. Amen" (Ether 15:34). After Moroni recorded the words of Ether concerning hope and faith (see Ether 12:4), Moroni interpolated in the narrative of the final destruction of the Jaredites an interesting and inspirational exposition of the three cardinal principles of Christianity, faith, hope, and charity. Moroni explains that faith is things which are hoped for but not seen. He warns that there will be no witness until after the trial of faith; and cites examples from Nephite history to validate his claim. He points out that Christ did not show himself to the Nephites after he had risen from the dead until after the people had faith in him. Continuing, Moroni writes that it 851 was by faith that the law of Moses was given to the Israelites. Moroni then directs his attention to the relationship which exists between faith and miracles, writing "af there be no faith among the children of men God can do no miracle among them" (Ether 12g). He cites four examples: first, he refers to the incident in Nephite history in which the faith of Alma and Amulek caused the prison in which they were incarcerated to tumble to the ground. Second, that it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that wrought the change in the hearts of the Lamanites, a change which made possible their baptism with fire and with the Holy Ghost. Third, that it was the faith of Ammon and his brethren which — wrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites. "Yea, and even all they who wrought miracles wrought them by faith, even those who were before Christ and also those who were after" (Ether 12:16). Moroni then points out, fourth, an incident which occurred after Christ: "And it was by faith that the three disciples obtained a promise that they should not taste of death; and they obtained not the promise until after their faith" (Ether Wan] ive Moroni writes of seeing and talking to Christ. Worried over the possible reception of 'The Book of - Mormon by the gentiles in the last days, fearing that they would mock at his words because of the ineffective manner in which he felt he had written, he presented his problem to the Savior. Jesus replied: 852
Fools mock, but they shall moum; and my grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness; And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness. I give unto men weakness that they may be humble (Ether 12:26, 27). Having heard these words, Moroni was comforted. Speaking to the Savior, he continued: And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared in the mansions of thy Father. Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if the Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, thou wilt prove them, and take away their talent (Ether 12:35). And Moroni prayed unto the Lord that he would give charity unto the gentiles. Regarding the second - virtue, hope, Moroni writes little, stressing chiefly that "man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place which thou [God] hast prepared" (Ether 12:32). 
Moroni concludes this long interpolation in his history of the Jaredites by bidding farewell. To the gentiles, by testifying that he has seen the Christ, and by giving the gentiles grave admonitions: And now I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever. Amen (Ether 12:41). This twelfth chapter of the Book of Ether thus becomes a new witness that Jesus is the Christ, and presents a strong appeal for the gentiles of the last days to give credence to this noble message. Questions for Discussion 1. Do you have sympathy for Coriantumr in his repentance? 2. How were prophecies concerning Coriantumr literally fulfilled in this lesson? 3. What is Moroni's view of the three cardinal principles of the gospel? 4. What were the teachings of Ether concerning the history of the world? (See Ether 13.) Visiting Seacher ITlessages Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 6—"Now It Is Better That a Man Should Be Judged of God Than of Man, for the Judgments of God Are Always Just, but the Judgments of Man Are not Always Just" (Mosiah 29:12). | Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, March 4, 1952
Objective: To show that we should refrain from judging each other. T seems to be a very common trait in human beings, freely to pass judgment upon our fellow men. King Mosiah, in speaking to his people gave us the kernel of thought on this subject and the indisputable reason why we, as mortals, are not competent to judge.
Whereas the LESSON DEPARTMENT judgments of God are always just, he tells us, the judgments of man are not always so, and this is sufficient reason why we should not judge each other.
This reason disqualifies us as rightful judges.
Being human and subject to the weaknesses and prejudices of human nature, our opinions are likely to be biased, we are prone to make mistakes. And being able to view conditions and problems only with limited vision, seeing only what appears on the surface, we have no right to assume the role of judge of our fellow men. Our judgment may be faulty because our wisdom and knowledge are faulty. But God can pass unerring judgment because he can read the human heart, he knows the motives of individuals, and can see all sides of a situation.
Someone has said, "We judge others by their actions, ourselves by our intentions."
There is an old adage which reads: "People in glass houses should not throw stones." In a sense, we all live in glass houses, for no one of us is free from sin in some degree.
Because this is true, we 853 have not the right to throw disparaging stones at others. Dr.
Alsaker said, "We should be lenient in our judgment because often the mistakes of others would have been ours had we had the opportunity to make them." And this verse has much truth to ponder: How leniently our own faults we view, And conscience's voice adeptly smother; Yet, oh, how harshly we review The selfsame failings in another. —ANON. It is true that in our present social structure, those who have broken the law must be dealt with in the courts, and men must be judged of men, because that is the only way open to us.
Moreover the Lord himself has designated certain offices in his Church which carry the power of judgeship; but in our daily contacts with each other, let us withhold judgment of our fellow men.
When our life's deeds are weighed, one will surely be there who has known our innermost thoughts and desires, one will pass judgment who is a perfect Judge. Work ITleeting—Sewing THE Art oF MENDING (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Mending Men's Suits Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, March 11, 1952 (Textbook: The Complete Book of Sewing, by Constance Talbot.) homemaker can confidently attempt many of the simpler repairs and alterations in men's suits and coats. In addition, much suit saving can be done by guarding against wear. And the day of mend- 854.  ing can be further postponed by proper everyday care. As in all mending, the material, such as patches, thread, lining, and buttons should match as nearly as possible those in the suits being repaired. Buy three-cord mercerized thread, size o for extra strength, in a shade darker than the suit.
Thread works up lighter than it appears on the spool. A piece of beeswax is helpful in waxing thread for extra strength when sewing on buttons or repairing buttonholes. Use regular buttonhole twist for buttonholes. If the fabric has a hard, tight finish, use strong linen thread for sewing on buttons., Wear and perspiration can soon cause holes under the arms in a suit lining and can stain and mat the outer material. To guard against this, protective shields may be tacked in.
Make underarm shields of material that is similar to the suiting, or make them of rayon lining in a matching color.. Cut two shieldshaped pieces, one for each armhole.
Bind all around the edges with rayon.
Undo the lining just far enough to tack the shield in place under the armhole.
Slip stitch the shield to the coat lining around the outer edge and the lining back in around the arm hole. To protect trouser legs from the tub of shoes, wear guards may be put on the cuffs. To make them use heavy tape about five-eighths of an inch wide. To put them on, turn down the cuff, baste the tape on just inside the leg next to the fold that will be the bottom edge of the trouser, and stitch by machine on both edges of the tape.
Turn the cuff back and tack it in place. To repair a frayed sleeve edge, first rip the lining from the coat at the cuff, take out the cotton stay inside, turn down sleeve hem and brush out all lint and soil.
Next cut through the crease exactly on the line of wear.
Trim off worn spots of sleeve and facing, keeping an even line.
Taking a very tiny seam, sew facing back in place.
Press this seam open.
With the seam open, stitch it by machine very close to the seam line.
Turn the facing inside the sleeve and baste in place so the seam line and machine stitching are just inside the sleeve.- Refinish bottom of sleeve as before and replace buttons.
Patches in men's suits at elbows and elsewhere.
Should be done as inconspicuously as possible by careful matching as outlined in lesson 2—"Patching."
When holes appear in inside pockets, they may be mended with a good, heavy grade of cotton twill.
Usually a half pocket repair is sufficient. Cut off the worn part of the pocket and use it as a pattern to cut a new pocket bottom, allowing for seams.
Turn the pocket inside out and sew the new part to the old with the seam outside.
Press the seam up and finish as a flat fell.
This keeps the pocket smooth.
Take a 1/8 inch seam around side and bottom.
Turn the pocket back into trousers and finish as a French seam. If a button has pulled out and taken a bit of cloth with it, darn the hole or patch it to add strength. To prevent strain that may cause the button to pull out again, sew a LESSON DEPARTMENT small button underneath, opposite the suit button. Pin stripes that have worn off at knees, elbows, or seat of suits, can be restored by machine.
Reinforce these places with rayon lining pieces cut the proper size.
Baste reinforcements underneath and then stitch stripes on the machine 855 in thread that matches the original stripe.
Experiment with machine tension and size of stitch until you get a stitch that reproduces the stripe.
Instructions for turning collars and cuffs on men's shirts can be found on page 217 of the text. Of iterature— The