[The Annual General Relief Society Conference by Margaret C. Pickering]

the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 4, 1951] | FEEL very humble, my sisters, in following the masterful address of your President, filled with a great challenge to all of you. Indeed, the entire program up to this point has been very interesting to me, and I regard myself as fortunate to have had the invitation to be with you. I've always been very grateful for the Relief Society, except perhaps on one occasion.
When my wife and I were married over here in the Temple a little over fifty years ago, it so happened that my wife's grandmother, Bathsheba W. Smith, was the President of the Relief Society. As I recall, she was also matron of the Salt Lake Temple. Well, after we were married, I had a hack. You know what a hack is, you younger women. I had a hack, which was a form of public conveyance comparable to our taxicabs now, only horse-drawn, out at the gate of the Temple to meet us. It was the first hack that I had ever hired, because young men in those days didn't have very much money to spend on luxuries of that kind. I was quite proud to think that I could get it to take my wife home after the marriage. And, lo and behold, when I got out to the Temple gate, prePage 796 pared to take my wife home in this luxurious carriage, whom should she have with her, in one of her kindly disposed moments, but one of the old members of the Relief Society, and she said, "This sister lives two or three miles out on the way, and I thought that we could take her home." Well, I don't remember whether she sat between us or not, but I do recall at the time that I kind of wished that Heber C.
Kimball hadn't left any widows. But I don't hold it against my wife, she's a very resourceful lady, and very interesting. I never know what she's going to do, but I always know it will be expensive. I am sure that this great congregation here today is very substantial evidence of the magnitude of the great work in which you are en-— gaged.
Very few comparable movements could fill the Tabernacle as you do here at this time, and I am sure that they who have observed with any degree of scrutiny, the marvelous progress that has been made in this organization and in its work over the years, have unbounded admiration and respect for the movement which was begun so long ago under the circumstances so impressively given to us here today. THE