Utah Stake Observes Fiftieth Anniversary Not long ago in the city of Ogden the fiftieth anniversary of the organization of the Weber Stake Relief Society was observed. Following that came the beautiful pageant in the Tabernacle, which heralded the news that the ten stakes of Salt Lake City and Salt Lake county were harking back fifty years to the time when the original Salt Lake Stake was organized. On the 27th day of September, 1928, the Utah Stake Relief Society, in a fitting program, observed the date of its fiftieth anniversary. There were on the stand four women responsible at one period and another for leadership in the stake. These women were Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler, Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, Mrs. Electa Smoot Dixon, and Mrs. Achsa E. Paxman. Mrs. Paxman is the present incumbent. An outstanding feature of the celebration was a representation in pageantry of the women of Utah Stake who were ward presidents before the stake was organized. This feature of the program was carried over by women of the Society, many of whom were relatives of the ward presidents they represented. They were gowned in the fashions of that past period. For instance, Mrs. Grace Cheever, who represented Lucy Smith, wore a costume that was her own mother's, thus reviving the dress in vogue half a century ago. Professor J. M. Jensen wrote some verses characterizing the life and labors of these first presidents. The verses were read to musical accompaniment by Miss Elaine Paxman, daughter of the president. A feature of the gathering was the assembling of persons who had worked in the Relief Society fifty years ago. The history of the organization was presented by Virgie C. Murdock, counselor to President Achsa E. Paxman. A solo, Mother Machree, by Mrs. Allie Webb Clark, was electrifying to the audience. Flowers were presented to past presidents of stakes and to the members of the General Board who were there. The celebration was featured by two events, the presentation of a silver watch to Electa Smoot Dixon in recognition of her devotion during her term of office and the report by President T. N. Taylor of the opening of a box which was owned by the Relief Society and marked to be opened in fifty years. The box contained the photographs and EDITORIAL 597 pamphlets and papers that had to do in the main with the Third Ward Relief Society. Counselor Jennie B. Knight, Mrs, Inez Knight Allen, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds represented the General Board at the gathering.